
    ----CITATION----
        Southworth, Emma Dorothy Eliza Nevitte, (1819-1899). The Curse of Clifton, Vol. 1 .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC7853
    ----FULL TEXT----
         
      
         
            The curse of Clifton, vol. 1  
            
               C
~

N'

THJ~
CURSE OF CLIFTON.

1!


THE
CURSE OF CLIFTON:
A TALE OF

EXPIATION

AND REDEMPTION.

~;PT~~WO;L~I;iI,
BY MRS. EMMA P. E. N.
AUTHOR OT
"THE DESERTED WIFE," ~~VIRGXNIA AND I~AGDALENE," "SHANNONDALE~"
"THE DISCARDED DAUGHTER," ETC., ETC., ETC.
11W TWO YOLUMES.WOL. I.
*PflIfrAYELPHIA:
A. HART, LATE CAREY &amp; HART,
126 CHEST~UT STREET.
1858.


V
4                 U

CON TRN T S.

Entered according to the Act of Congr '.s               ---- yar182b
D E ACON &amp;n P ETESON er182 y
In te Cerks Olic ot th  Distrit Cort of the United States, in and for

CHAPTER I.-THE MOUNTAIN HUT --- - Page 17
11L-CLIFTON AND TUE BEAUTIES  -  42
IIL--MRS. CLIFTON, OF HARDBARGAIN -54
JV.-THE TIDE OF' FATE -  ..-65
V.-THE TIDE OF'FATE (CoNT1NUED.)  - 75
VI--THE RUPTURED TIE -  -  --84
VIL-T HE SEVERED HEA RTS  -  -- 102
VIII.-LOST AFFECTION  -  -  -  -115
,IX.-WOMAN'S PRIDE -  -  - . - 142
X.--TE SISTERS  -  -  --  -15
XI.-MRS. FAIRFAX AND MAJOR CABELL~ 161
XII.-SUSPENSE     -  - -       169
XIIL.-ARCHER CLIFTON'S SKETCHES  - 176
XIV.-THE DISCIPLINE OF AFFLICTION -185
XV.--THE BLACK~ SEAL  . -  -  - 195
XVI.-MR..CLIFTON'S RESOLUTION -- 203
XYIL.-THE WIDOWED BRIDE  -  -  - 208
XVII-THE YOUNG MOURNER  ..- 217
XIX.-CONFESSION .     . -  -    228-

(5)

'8           '~4

~Iji
I

-    j,'


THE CURSE OF GLJFTON.

CHAPTER I.
THI~ MOUNTAIN hUT.
A lonesome lodge
That stands so lowe in lonely glen,
The little window, dim and clarke,
Is hung with ivy, brier and yewe.
PERCY'S RELIQUES.
UPON a glorious morning,, in the midsummer of 18-, two
equestrian travellers spurred their horses up ,the ascen~ of
the Eagle's Flight, the loftiest and most perilous pass o7the
leghanies.
Though the sui~ was near the meridian, and all the sky
'                   above was "darkly, deeply, beautifully blue," and perfectly
clear, yet all the earth beneath was covered by a thick, low-
lying fog9
On reaching the highest point of the pass, both travellers
drew rein and paused, looking-.-N~rth, South, East, West-'-
over the ocean of vapor rolling from horizon to horizon below
them! And while they so pause, let us catch that nearly ver-
tical ray of the s~in that falls upou them, lighting up the group
like fire above, the fog, and daguerreotype them as they stand.
Both are young men of' about the same age, probably
twenty-five; both are well mounted upon fine bay horses;
an~j both wear the undress uniform of the Regiment
of Cavalry; and here all resemblance between them ceases.
He on the right hand, who holds in his horse's head with
so tight a rein, causing the gallant steed t~ arch his beautiful
neck so gracefullyt while be lets fly a falcon-glance around
(17)
-V
~.     I.

I
tjt
I


18'

TIIii~ CURSE OP CLIFTON.

the shrouded horizon, is Archer Clifton, of Clifton, now hold
ing the rank of Captain in the ~-~- Regiment of Cavalry.
His form is of middle size, strongly built, yet elegantly pro~
portioned. His comp~exmon is dark and bronzed as by ex.
posture; his features are Roman; his hair and whiskers
trimly cut, are of the darkest~ chestnut, with what painters
call &amp;ootijght~ Whii~h~i5 tck p~ tlii~t there is no warmth of
coloring even wtie~re ~he ~iin' lights. Indeed, there is no
warmth about the loQks of the Whole man. His eyes are
singularjy beautiful and brilian*,~combining
all those dark,
shifting, scintillating, prismatic hues, that would drive an
artist mad, for want of colors to portray, or an author to
despair, for lack of Words to ~describe. He wears the dark
blue uniform of hi~ regiment, and manages his noble charger
with the ease and griic&amp; only~to be found in the accomplished
cavalry ofllcer. left 'hind, ~ ~~~gUiQ air and
He                   ~-~-- ~                loosened
rein, inclines his hodyforward; permitting his graceful horse
to droop his head a~4, scent the earth, as in quest ?~ herbage,
is Francis Fairfax, of Green Plains, a Lieutenant in the com~
pany nnd~r'the. comina~jd: ofOaptairi.o.lif~0~ flei~ of aiout
tbe~ me height of Clifton, bu~ his ~gure is slender almost to
ity. His 'teatures.ar&amp; delicate and piquant~ RI5 eom~
plexion is fair and transparent. His hair is also very fair2
and Waved off~fronm a forehead so~ snowy, round and smooth,
as to seem childlike, especially with those clear blue eyes;
that now brood roguishly under their golden lashes, as in~
profound quest of mischief, and now light up and sparkle with
fun and ftolic. He m~sman~ges hi~ spoiled pet of a steed
with the ohar~ming insoUciance, only to be seen in the amateur
poets painter, Player, musician, etc., etc., etc. And yet~
there is sometimes an earnest, thoughtful aspect 1~bout the
'youth, that Surprises one into the suspicion that all his levity
is superficial,~~ hides his deeper and betternature, as stub..~
ble sonmtiine~covers and conceal a mine of pm'ecious metal.
"Well!"      last spoke, Mr.~F~iirf~x, " is is now about
twelve hours since we were emptied out of that atrocjou8 old
stage coach, which, for a week past, has 'leen beating us
about in its interior, from side to side, and from seat to ceil...
ing, as if we were a lump of butter in an old woman's churn,
and whose kindest turn of all to us was, when it turned over

THE CURSE OF CLIFTON9             19
ud shook us out down the precipice, andinto the trough of
he Wolf's Lick, as if we had been apples fed to the pigs!
Oh! by the lost baronetcy of the house of Fairfax, my self-
steem will never recover the effects of it! Perdition~ seize
the picturesque at this price! And ever since long before
daybreak this niornilig, have we been wandering about over
hese mountain tops, with 'the earth below us hidden in mist,
and only the highest peaks looming through the sea of vapor
like islands in the ocean! And we plunging wildly about in
the fog, like death on the pale horse riding the waves! 'And
to the momentarily recurring risk of riding over some hidden
precipice of a thousand feet perpendicular. If this be
your glorious mountain scenery, to the demon with it!
For I had as lief be on the open sea with the 'Ancient
Mariner ~
To this half petulant, half laughing philipic Captain Clif-
ton, while his glance still roved over the shrouded hemis-
phere, replied, with an indulgent smile-~-
"You cannot see the face of the country for the morning
veil she chooses to wear. But wait till high noon~ when the
sun, her royal lover, in the meridian of his glory, shall raise
thatgauzy covering, and she, like a right royal bride, shall
~mile and blush in light and glory~"
"By my soul, I could fancy the lady earth wore this veil
to conceal fast gathei~ing tears, rather than smiles or blushes!
./Inglic6, I think we shall have rain soon-though blistered
be my tongue for saying it !-not about the 'rain 'but about
the veil For, look you! F~ret as I may at this journey
through the mist--yet this fine scenery, under a cloud as it
literally is, gives me a feeling of breadth, grandeur] I ex~
pand, spread out ever the vast area of its ~h~ouded solitudes!
Oh! it is only on the boundless sea or on the mountain top,
with a hemisphere below mue, that I feel ~ if I 'had i~oom
enough to live in! And you give me a feeling of suffocation
'by drawing in this a*ful shrouded 'world to the simile of a
lady's veiled face! But it is not to be wondered at! No,
by the shade of Mare Autony, and all otker great ~men, who
held the whole world light in the balance with a 'woman's
evanescent smile or tear! everything is aproixisA femmes
with yotl now. Could the music of thee sph~r~ suddenly
burst upon your astonished ears, as soon as ~7'had recovered
)

5

19


your senses, your highest note of admiration would be to
compare that universal diapason of divine harmony to Lady
Carolyn's silver laugh !"
"I do not recollect ever to have heard 'Lady' Carolyn
laugh."
"Ten thousand pardons! A Clifton of Clifton never
laughs. But tell me, Captain, whereabouts in the world-
I mean in the clouds, are we? And when shall we see this
pure pearl of beauty and the rich casket that enshrines her;
this stately lily of the mountains and. the parterre where she
blooms ;-wheu shall we behold Paradise and the Pen..-.
Clifton and Lady Carolyn '?"
Without replying to this mock-poetic strain, Captain Clifton
remained with his eyes still wandering from East to West,
and back again over the rolling vapor. And Fairfax con-
tinned-
"I suspect now, by your abstracted air and wandering
eye, that you have lost your way in the clouds-not the first
time such a thing has happened to a lover, nor gould it be
strange in a place like this, where the only land-marks are
mountain tops sticking out of the fog with a day's journey'
between each !"
At this instant a distant group of peaks broke suddenly
through the znist like newisles thrown up by the sea, and
glittered whitefly in the sunlight against the deep blue
horizon.
"See!" exclaimed Clifton, roused from his apathy by the
sudden apparition. "Look, Fairfax! I will show you White
Cliffs! Look straight before you to the Western horizon-
a little North of West. You see a crescent of seven peaks
rising through the mist against the sky. ~That is White
Cliffs."
"Looking white enough at this distance-quite lik~ snow-
capped mountains, in fact."
"Yes. They ar&amp;of ~white quartz, and their peaks rising
from the girdle of dark evergreens around their base and
sides, have quite a cooling effect in hot weather."
"Ali! just so. Now how far off are those same blessed
refrigerators V'
"About twenty-five irdles in a bee-line, But the moun-
tain road is very circuitous, and makes the distance nearly

20

I

A
d

3

forty. However, if we ride well, we shall be able to reach
Clifton in time to surprise Mrs. Clifton at tea."
"Heaven be praised for that . possibility !" ejaculated
Fairfax, as they prepared to descend the mountain
side.
As they rode down, Captain Clifton, warming slightly from
his cool reserve, said-
"I think, Fairfax, that you, poet and artist as you claim
to be, will rather like Clifton. Tourists, who hayc visited
our part of the country, think the scenery there, very fine.
It impresses me merely as being unique. There is something
formal-but, to myself, not therefore nupleasing in that
crescent of seven peaks-~-the tallest being in the centre and
gradually declining thence to the loii~est, which may be called
the horns of the crescent, and point Southward. Those
peaks rise from a forest of-first elms and oaks around their
base; then pines farther up their sides; and last of cedars,
above which rise the pinnacle of white quartz. This crescent
of mountains surrounds and shelters from the North winds
the family mansion, which is situated in the woods at its foot.
North of the peaks, the country is wild and rugged, but
partly covered with thick forest, and affording the best hunt-
ing grounds in the world. There you may course the hare;
track, the deer; or if your tastes aspire to a fiercer conflict,
hunt the wolf, the wild cat, or the bear- !"
"-Or the rattle-snake, copper-head, or moccasin! Thank
you, I have no inclination for crusade against those menu-
taineers," laughed Fairfax.
"Perhaps you like angling ~ There is a trout stream at
the foot of the wooded lawn, in front of the house. I must
tell you about that, for it is the head waters of a fine
river.
"From the Western cliff there springs a torrent that with
many a leap, and fall, and rebound, tumbles tumultuously
down the side of the mountain, and falling into a channel at
the foot of the lawn, flows calmly on, until it meets a second
fall, from whence it goes hurrying on, through. forests, fields'
and rocks, taking tribute from many ~Vmountain-torrent, and
many a meadow-stream, and widening 'as it goes, until it be-
comes a mighty river, rushing on, to pour its floods into the
majestic James. After which, they both 'go on, breaking
VOL. T.-2

20             THE CURSE OF CLIFTON.                                   THE CURSE OF CLIFTON.            21

21


22             THE CURSE OF CLIFTON.                                TlE CURSE OF CliFTON.          23

through range after range of mountains, and so conquer their
passage to the- sea-even as in the feudal days of the olden
country, some mountain chieftain, gathering his vassals to-
gether, came rushing down from his highland home, and
laying all the country under tribute in his course, hurried on
to throw all his treasures at the feet of his sovereign, and go
with him to the wars."
"Clifton !" said Fairfax, more seriously than he had yet
spoken, "all your illustrations-all your metaphors-all
your thoughts, fancies and imaginings are-not' of the earth,
earthy,' but worse-far worse-of the world, worldly! Of
the world, its castes, customs and conventions-~-its pomps,
vanities and falsities! You speak of' the grandest, the most
imposing-oh! let me call it a~t once, the most magnificent
area of mountain-scenery in the hemisphere, with all the
earth, below and around, covered with a sea of vapor that
rises and falls, rolling from horizon to horizon, like the wives
of th~ ocean, and you compare it to a veiled royal bride
You describe a mighty mountain-river, rending its passage
through the everlasting rocks, overleaping, uprooting, bear-
ing down and bearing on all obstacles to its resistless rush
towards the sea, ~md you liken it to a chieftain going to pay
tribute to a King! Ah, Clifton of Clifton, the beauty, the
glory, and the majesty of the earth pleases you, but the
'pomp, pride, and circumstance' of the world inspires you!
But when was it otherwise with a Clifton, of Clifton ~ 'The
spirit of intense worldliness has ever becen their bane and
curse-their sin and its punishment!"' he concluded, re-
lapsing into his mock-tragic air.
Ab! so you ar~ familiar with the popular legend that
you have just quoted," said Captain Clifton. "But," he
added, with a sarcastic smile, "were Georgia here, I think
she could refute the charge, and prove one Clifton, at least,
has been guided by any spirit rather than that of 'intense
worldliness."'
"Georgia?"
"I beg her pardon! Mrs. Clifton, of Clifton."
"Oh! your aunt! 4i~ut by my soul, Captain, that was a
very irreverent way of introducing the old lady! Do young
men in your patriarchal part of the country call old gentle-
women by their Christian names !"

f
5 F
!~ j:
~
$
'~
~    I
~ ii

"Old gentlewomen !" repeated Clifton, slowly, with a
~ musing smile, adding-" Georgia is about seventeen years
~ of age, and the most beautiful woman in the world !"
"Whe-e-e-ew! I'm amazed! I'm confounded! I'm
stunned! Then-the present Mrs. Clifton is the second wife V'
"No, sir-Georgia is my uncle's fourth wife."
" Overwhelmed !-annihilated!" exclaimed the young man.
"The- the-old Blue-beard! the old Henry VIII.! Four
wives! Are they all living ~-if not, where does he bury his
dead ~"
"Fairfax!" exclaimed Captain Clifton, in a tone, and
with a look, that speedily recalled the young man to himself
-then he added, rather haughtily-" My Uncle Clifton is a
simple, gentle-hearted old man, excessively fond of women,
but mark you, sir !-it is the affection of the patriarch, not
of the pacha."
"Hang me if ever I saw any difference between Solomon
the king, 'and Solimaun the caliph; Abraham the pati'iarch,
and Aroun the pacha, in that respect," laughed the young
man, until, stealing a furtive glance at the cold and haughty
face of' Clifton, he held out his hand, and suddenly exclaimed
-" Pardon me, Clifton! or call me out! I-can't help a
jest, to save my soul! but P11 fight or apologize, or render
any other sort of satisfaction afterwards !"
Captain Clifton remembered that Francis Fairfax was his
guest, going to spend a long mid-summer furlough at his
mother's house, and so he cleared his brow and answered-
"NonsenseP'
"Now tell me about Henry VIII.'s fourth Queen-how
long has she been married-I mean the present Mrs. Clifton ~"
"About two years. My uncle wedded her when she was
fifteen-she is now seventeen-and, as I said, the most beau-
tiful creature' that you, or I, or any one else, ever did, or
ever shall sees anywhere."
"./lllons-.stop there! False knight 'and recreant! whose
colors do you wear while you uphold the peerless beauty of
Georgia ~ What would Miss Clifton of Clifton say to your
admiration ~"
"Ridiculous, sir! Miss Clifton is herself very beautiful,
but not the most beautiful. Miss Clifton has other and
rarer distinctioiis, I am proud to say'?"

23

22


24             THE CURSE OF CLIFTON.                                   THE CURSE OF CLiFTON4           25

d
~
~ I ~
~ 4
I
( I
III

"Oh, I understand-her family mime !-nevertheless, be
hanged if I don't believe you have been in love with
Georgia !"
"Imppssible, sir! The perfect beauty of the young girl
struck me forcibly, as it strj~es all others-nay, more-un-
pressed my imagination deeply perhaps. I confess to a
penchant for female beauty-and-observe-it is the artist's
taste, sir, not the sultan's. But in love with Georgia! Im-
possible, sir! She was a girl of humble parentage !"
"Au! then you think it quite 'impossible' that a gentle-
man born, should be in love with a girl of 'humble parent-
~
"Preposterous, sir !-utterly
hear no more about it       preposterous!  Pray, let us
"Yet your uncle-"
"My uncle married such an one, you would say. Old
gentlemen, living on their own estates, will do such things.
And the w9rld charitably ascribes it to dotage, smiles and
forgives them. You will oblige me by changing the subject)
Frank."
Fairfax fell into reverie, and Clifton dropped into thought,
and they rode on for some time in silence, and in-joy-
until-.
"Floods and furies! Fire and flames!! Lightning and
tempests, and sudden death!! !" exclaimed Fairfax, rearing
and backing his horse with a terrible jerk, and throwing him-
self from the saddle, bathed in perspiration, and shaking with
terror. "Look! Look there! There at your feet! Back!
Back your horse, unless you wish to ride straight to the
kingdom of Heaven, or-to the other place! Oh, blessed
Lord! I shall never survive the shock!"
Captain Clifton backed his horse, dismounted, and follow-
ing the index of Fairfax, approached the brink of the awful
abyss, and looked down a perpendicular precipice of more
than a thousand feet, with the remaining distance lost in
shadows and dim vapors, while faintly to the ear came a low
and hollow murmur, as of the roaring of many waters at a
vast depth!
"This is the head of the Devil's Staircase! We have lost
our way !" said Captain Clifton.
"Devil's Staircase! I should think it was! Ugh! Oo-

oo-oo-ooh! I shall never survive it! Where does it lead to!
Tell mc that! To the infernal regions, I suppose, of course.
JJr-r-r-r-r !" exclaimed Fairfax, with his teeth chattering.
"We have indeed made a very narrow escape," said Cap-
tain Clifton, gazing thoughtfully dowfl the horrible pit.
"Narrow escape! Ur-r-r-r-r!" exclaimed Frank, shaking,
shuddering, and streaming with cold perspiration. "I tell
you, when I was providentially led to lnok down, and saw the
fog roll away from beneath my horse's feet, and reveal that
ghastly-Ur-r-r"r-r! Ur-r-r"r-r! I believe I shall chatter my
teeth to powder !"
"Come, come, Fairfax! this is really unmanly. Thank
an ever-watchful Providence, that has preserved you from a
sudden and horrible death, land calm yourself. Be a
man
"Be a man! You might as well say to my shuddering
horse, there-be a horse!* This is unhorsely! Ur-r-r~r-r!
I tell you it has given me the tertian ague !"
"Why, Frank! Really !"
"Look at my horse-look even at that dumb beast! Yes,
look at that gallant steed, who would charge upon a phalanx
of fixed bayonets, and impale himself upon their points, if
spurred to it-look at him! Positively frozen with terror !"
"Fairfax, you astonish me-certainly you are not really
so much overcome."
"Overcome! My nerves are shattered to atoms, I tell
you! Ur-r-r-r-r! It has given me the tertian ague, and
the St. Vitus' dance! both together! 1IJ'r-r-r-r-r !"
"Now who would have supposed you to be a-of such a
nervous temperame ! Come, let me assist you to -mount,
and then away.~~
"What! And at the end of the next hundred yards, ride
headlong over a precipice of fifteen hundred feet, and before
night find sepulchre in the maws of fifty turkey-buzzards! I
tell you there is neither a glorious death, an honorable burial,
nor an immortal fame to -be found in such a fate! Heavens
and earth, no! For instance~~-.' Whatever beca~ne of that
poor devil, Fairfax!' asks one. 'Oh, one day, crossing the.
mouAtains in a fog; with his head in a mist, he had the awk-
wardness to pitch himself headferemost 4own~ the Devil's
Ladder, in the Alleghanies,' answers t'other. 'Poor crea-
2*

24

25


26             THE CURSE OF CLiFTON.                                   THE CURSE OF CLIFTON.           27

lure! He was always a miserable-but where was he buried ~'
'He wasn't buried-the crows eat him up,' etc., etc., etc.!
Oh! I know what my posthumous fame would be in such a
case. Quite different from that of the future Major-General
Francis Fairfax, who, fifty years hence, at a good old age,
shall die in his downy bed, with the archbishop praying by
him, and be buried with the highest honors of war, and haw
a national monument raised to his fame, emblazoning his im-
mortal services to his grateful country, in receiving her
honors and emoluments for more that half a cent~iry! Can't
give up that glorious future for the sake of dashing myself
to pieces this afternoon, Clifton. No !" said the young man,
folding his arms, and striking an attitude a-la-sYapoleon,
"I have a destiny to fulfill, and shall not stir from this spot
until the mist rises or falls."
"Mr. Fairfax! it is now drawing late in the afternoon. We
shall have a storm before night; and a storm on the moun-
tains, let me tell you, is a much more delightful thing to read
about in Childe Harold, while stretched at your ease upon
the settee in your shady piazza, than to take in pro-
pria persouw on the Alleghanies," said Captain Clifton,
quietly.
"Only warrant me from bringing up suddenly to the
jumping-off place before I know it-ahd I'll make an at-
tempt! Yea! let him only insure my body unharmed by
fire or water, and I'll valiantly follow my leader through
flood and flame!" replied Frank, recovering himself with a
few more shudders, and preparing to mount.
"We have left the right road about Iwo miles behind,"
said Captain Clifton, turning his hors~head and leading
the way.
The fog below was condensing very fast. From the North-
Western horizon black clouds were rising behind masses of
foaming white vapor. The air was still and oppressive, and
from all around came a faint, low moaning sound, as if na-
ture cowered and frenibled before the coming of the terrible
"storm king." The fog was now rolling down and gather-
ing info clouds below them-revealing the majestic features
of the landscape, mountains, vales and forests, rocks, glens
and waterfalls, in wild and magnificent confusion-all wear-
ing now a savage and gloomy aspect ~under the shadow of

the coining storm. Captain Clifton's eye had been con-
stantly on the alert in hope of discovering some mountain
cabin, which might shelter them from the fury of the tem-
pest, but as yet his search was unsuccessful-no human
dwelling even of the humblest description was to be .seen.
At length the attention of the travellers was attracted by
the faint tingling of a bell-then by the bleating of sheep-
and then from ~the deep clouded glen at their right, sprung
up into their path a beli-wether followed by two-five-ten-
a whole flock of sheep; and driven by a girl on a pony;
a little coarse, sun-burned girl, in a boy's coarse straw hat
and a homespun gown, riding on a little rough-coated, wiry,
mountain pony.
"A shepherdess, by all that is romantic," exclaimed Fair-
fax, vaulting aside to let the sheep pass. Then springing to
the side of the rough-coated pony, he doffed his hat to the
rider and said-
"My good girl-for the love of Providence, will you tell
us ~ivhere we can find shelter from the storm ~"
The child raised her fine eyes to the stranger's face with
the look of a startled fawn-and dropped them again in-
stantly. Fairfax repeated his question. The child stole
another furtive glance at the fine gentleman in the very fine
uniform, and then at her own coarse raiment, and blushed
deeply. But before Fairfax could reiterate his request, she
said, quietly-
"Grandfather's cabin is not far off, if you and the other
gentleman will come with me."
"With great pleasure-and ten thousand thanks, my dear
little girl. Be so g~pd as to lead the way."
The flock of sheephead gone on before. The girl put her
pony in motion, and the gentlemen followed-Mr. Fairfax
addressing all his conversation to his little companion; and
Captain Clifton riding on in silence and abstraction.
~Phe sky was darkening very fast, and great single drops
of rain occasionally falling. They quickened their pace, and
after riding briskly several hundred yards, came to the head
of a glen, deep down in Which was seen a small, lone cabin.
At this instant the sheet lightning glared from horizon to
horizon, followed by a report as. of exploded and falling
rocks, and their the rain came down in a deluge. The dark.

4

26

27


28             THE OIIRSE OF CLIFTON.                                THE CURSE OF CLIFTON.          29

ness was so dense now as to hide their way. The girl jumped
from her pony, and giving him a little slap that sent him
travelling down the path, went up to the head of Clifton's
horse and said, shyly-
"You can't see the way, sir, and you don't know the
road-let me lead youi' bo~r~e."
"By no means, my good girl," replied Clifton, speaking
in a tone of haughty astonishment.
Without reply the child turned from him and went to-
wards Fairfax. And at the same instant a thunder-bolt was
hurled from Heaven with a terrific crash, driving the ground
on which she had just stood. When the panic was over, the
first thought of Captain Clifton was for the safety of that
presumptuous child. A glare of lightning revealed her
lying on the rock. He hastened to her side.
"My dear child, are you hurt," he asked, dismounting
and stooping to lift her.
"Oh! sir, I am So glad to hear you speak! I thought
you were struck."
"Are you hurt ~"
"Oh no, sir, I was only thrown down," replied the child,
lightly springing to her feet.
"Oh, yes! Exchange your mutual condolences and cone
gratulations. But who the mischief cares whether I am
hurt or not ?" exclaimed Fairfax, stumbling along towards
them-for he also had dismounted.
" You were entirely out of danger," replied clifton.
"Out of danger! Who the deuce is out of danger ~within
a hundred miles of these infernal mountains V'
The rain was still pouring clown in floods, and in~ the inter-
val of the thunder, the roar of the swollen torrents was'
deafening. The question now was, whether ~t6 remain stancb
ing there exposed to all the fury of the storm, or to attempt
the now dangerous descent into the glen.
"I could lead your horses down in safety, if you would
let me, for I know every inch of the road so well," said the
girl.
Another blinding glare of lightning, another terrific peal
of thunder, and another deluge of rain, put a stop to all re-
ply. At last the child repeated her offer, saying that she
oould lead the horses down very well, "one at a time." But,

of course, that was not for a moment to be thought of by
the young men. And her plan was rejected at once.
"Well, then, the only way will be to go down on foot,
and leave your horses here to follow. For you will need
y our hands as well as your feet in groping down the slippery
rock through the darkness," said the girl.
After a little more consultation, her last proposition was
adopted, and they began the descent on foot.
After some twenty minutes' toil and struggle through
darkness and deluge, thunder and lightning, they reached
the lowly door of the cabin, pushed it hastily open, and hur-
ried in.
It was very dark, and nothing was to be seen but the red
glow of a few smouldering embers on the hearth. Towards
these the girl went.
"And what do you think has become of your flock of
sheep, my good girl V' inquired Frank, kindly, remembering
her interests while he stood there wringing the water out of
his coat skirts.                                A
"Oh, the bell-w6 ~her has led them all into the pen long
agQ, sir. They are always safe when they are once in the.
glen," replied the child, as she lighted a candle.
The sudden glare of the light showed a rude apartment,
with an earth floor, log walls, and a fire-place of unhewn stone.
On the right of the fire-place stood a poor bedstead, upon
which lay a venerable, white-haired old man, covered with a
faded counterpane, and near the bed sat an old, chip-bot-
tomed arm-chair. On the left of the fire-place were two
rough plank shelves, the lower shelf adorned with a few
pewter plates and mugs; the upper one filled with-
books !~.-piles of old dingy, musty books; and near these
shelves stood a spinning-wheel, with a broach of yarn on the
spindle, and a basket of broaches under it. At the opposite
end of the room, one corner was occupied by a little old oak
table, and the other by a ladder leading up through a trap-
door into the loft overhead. A few rude stools were ranged
along the walls, junks of smoked venison, ropes of onions,
bunches of dried herbs, hanks of yarn, and the old man's old
hat and coat garnished the walls. All this was seen at a
glance.
"Is your grt~&amp;ndfather sick 'P' inquired Frank.

.1

28

29


ao

~~IIE CURSE ~OF CLfli'TON.

The girl turned her eyes wistfully towards the venerable
sleeper, and did not reply.
"Is your grandfather sick P' repeated Fairfax.
The ghild raised her eyes sorrowfully to the face of the
young man, and remained silent.
"Is be so very~ sick ~" e~wnestly reiterated Frank.
"He is not sick, sir," answered the girl, in a low, sad
voice.
"What is the matter with him, then ~" thoughtlessly per-
sisted Frank.
Without reply, the girl dropped her eyes, and blushing
deeply, turned away. Setting the candle down upon the
table, she took a pail of water and went up the ladder, and
into the loft. After an absence of a few minutes, she re~
turned, and said-
"If you will go up stairs now, you will find two suits of
grandfather's and Carl's Sunday clothes. They are not fine,
but they are clean and dry."
Our wet and jaded travellers thanked their young hostess,
and prepared to accept her offer.
"And if," she added, "you would like to rest after so
much fatigue, there is a bed."
They reached the loft, and found it a small, low place,
with a little window, and a little, clean bed. On the bed
lay the two suits of homespun, and two coarse towels. And
on a sto&amp;l near, sat a pail of water and a tin basin."
"I do believe that little girl has given us her own sanc~.
tuary. What a dear little thing she is !-so full of courage,
and shyness, too! If she were two or three years older, and
a great deal prettier, I could fancy myself writing poetry
about her," said Frank,
Clifton in~de no eGn~ment.-he was engaged in divesting
himself of his wet garments, and thinking about-.~N[iss
Clifton.
When they had refreshed themselves by washing and
changing their, dress, Frank threw himself upon the bed,
stretched out his limbs luxuriously, and declared that the
rustic's clothes were very loose and comfortable, and his own
position truly delightful. Captain Clifton walked to the
window, and looked out at the storm, which was now
abating.

81

THE CURSE OF CLIFTON.

Frank was already sound asleep.
And while Clifton stood at the window, drawing compa-
risons between the meanness of the hut in which he found
himself, and the magnificence of the mountain scenery around
it, he heard-in that small, shelF-like cabin-he could not
help hearing-what follows. First a heave and plunge, as
if the old man below stairs had started violently from hi~
bed and fallen again; and then a fearful, shuddering voice
exclaimed, "Kate! Kate! they're coming again! They're
after me, Kate! They're on me! They're on me! Save
me, Kate! Save me, Kate! Save-"
~~Grandfather-dear grandfather," said the soothing voice
of the girl, "there is no one here but me-there, there, be
quiet-be still; nothing shall hurt you here-nothing can,
you know."
"Look! Look, Kate! Look! They're not men now,
but devils!" A violent plunge, struggles, exclamations of
terror and despair which the low, soothing tones and gestures
of the poor girl vainly assayed to tranquilize for some time,
and then-silence for a few minutes-which wgs again in-
terrupted by-" Snakes! snakes, Kate! Snakes! Green
snakes! See! see how they dart! They fly! They're on
me! They're on me! Help! Help !" And the sound of the
maniac laying about him furiously. Captain Clifton started
up with the intention of going to the poor girl's assistance-
but by the time he reached the head of the ladder, the voice
of the child had again calmed the infuriated man.
All~was quiet for a quarter of an hour, and then another
violent start' and throw that seemed to shake the little hut,
and a horrible shriek of-" A dragon! A dragon, Kate! A
green dragon belching flame !" Then a succession of violent
shrieks and struggles, which aroused Frank, who springing
up in bed, exclaimed-
"What the deuce is the matter ~ Has the* Major got
another fit of mania-a-potU on him V' Then, as all again
was quiet, he rubbed his eyes and said, laughing, "I do bew
lieve I have been talking in my sleep! I dreamed we were
in our mess, and the Major was drunk again."
"A "part of your dream was real. The old man bclow
stairs has a fit of mania-a-potu upon him.

7"

74


32             TIlE CURSE OF CLIFTON.                                    TH~ OtTUSE OF CLIFTON.

"What! and you stating here !~ I must go down and
help the girl."
"You had better not as yet. She seems to have the pow-
er of soothing him. Your presence might, by exasperating
him, do more hai~m than good."
At this moment another outbreak of fury from the mad-.
man caused Frank to spriiig to his feet, and, exclaiming-
"I can't let that maniac tear xny dear little hostess to
pieces--" rush to the head of the ladder.
"I tell you you had best not intrude-his mania seems
perfectly harmless to the child."
But Frank was at the foot of the ladder; where, however,
an impediment met him. The girl, who had just succeeded
in again soothing the madman, came and stood before him,
saying, "Pray do not come in, sir, just yet."
"But, my good girl, I must come in and remain to protect
you," gently trying to pass her. She stood her ground
firmly; her lips said-
"I am not in any danger. I beg you, sir, do not come in
yet ;" but her steady and rather threatening glance said---
"Do not dare to look upon the old man in his degradation !"
Frank tni:ned back, and went and perched himself at the
top of the ladder to watch over the safety of the girl, and
be ready in case of exigency.
lie saw the old man lying, clutching the cover around him,
while his terror-dilated eyes glared out like a wild beast's
from its lair-all ready for another start and spring! lie
saW the girl mix a mug of strong vinegar and water, and
take it to him, and the old man grasp and quaff it with fiery
thirst; three times she filled the mug, and three times he
gulphed its contents with voracity. Then she laid his aged
head tenderly down, and went and saturated a clbth with
vinegar, and placed it about his burning forehead and tem-
ples. Next she took a rustic fan of turkey feathers and
stood by him and fanned him until he fell into a sleep, that
every moment became deeper and deeper. Finally she gently
laid dpwn the fan, sunk upon her knees by the bedside; and
bQwed her head upon her clasped hands in silent prayer.
At last she arose, pressed a light kiss upon the furrowed
brow of the sleeper, and silently went about her household
work.

From a shed at the back of the house she brought wood
and water, made up the fire, filled and hung on the tea-
kettle, set an ovell and oven-lid to heat, and again disap-
peared through the back door into the sl~ed. In about
fifteen minutes she returned with a tray of dough and a pan
of venison steaks. She made her dough into a loaf and put
it in the oven to bake, and prepari~d her venison steaks to
lay upon the coals. She set her table with milk and crean),
and butter, brought in, doubtless from a rude, but cool
spring-house, near at hand.
When all was done, she sat down to knit, seeming to wait
the coming of' another-for she often paused and listened
with her head turned towards the door, and at length got u~
and drew from under the bed a trunk, whence she took an
old, well-patched but clean suit of homespun clothes, with a
shirt and a pair of socks, and hung them over a chair.
Soon after a step was heard without-the door was thrown
9pefl, and a thin, dark young man, dressed as a farm laborer,
entered. Throwing his coarse hat to the other end of the
room, he approached the fire, when seeing the situation of
the old man he stopped short, and placing his arms a-kimbo,
gaze&amp;on him, exclaiming~-.-.
"Drunk again, by        !" and then turned, with an
interrogative look, towards the girl.
A short wave of the hand-.a quick, distressful nod, and
the choking down of a sob, told him that it was so.
The young man let down his arms, and with 'a frown of
mingled sorrow and anger approached and gazed upon the
sleeper.
"Have you had much trouble with him, dear Kate V'
The same choking sob and quick nod answered him.
"Where DID he get the liquor ~ What has he laid his
hands on and sold now-any of my books ~"
"No! no !.-it was my bonnet-but never mind, I can
wear your old hat, you know !.-it doesn't matter for me !"
"Well, now, by all that's-"
"Hush, hush, Carl! Don't swear-he is our grandfather,
you know; and besides," she added, suddenly dropping her
voice, "there are strangers up stairs."
"Strangers! What strangers ?"
"Two gentlemen#who came in here out of the storm."
VOL. i.-3

-I'
4-'.

'4-
I

82


34             THE CURSE OF CLIFTON.

"Umph !" said the young man, dropping himself into the
arm-chair, ana falling into deep thought, from which he was
aroused by the voice of Kate, saying-.
"Carl, don't sit down in your wet clothes; take those on
the chair, and go in tbe shed and pi4 them on. And make
haste, p~ease,~ Carl, because, supper is nearly ready, and the
L                  gentlemen up stairs must be hungry."
The young man arose, with a heavy sigh, saying-
"I'll only change my jacket, that, I can do here. Oh
Kate !" he continued, as he divested himself of his wet jacket,
and drew on the other-" Oh! Kate! what between one thing
and another this is no home for you! Indeed, indeed, every
I               morning J go away from you with a heavy heart, and all day
long I can hardly work for the di~ead that's on my mind
about yaw If I could only find a place for you to wait on
some lady, or to' nurse a baby-but, Lord! what with th~
there is never a place to be got here for a poor white
plao:tos:w-Iwouldn't leave him. Why, Carl,
girl."
'Oh, Carl, if you could, get me the best place in the world
would break his. heart,. He woujd grieve himself to death!"
shoul&amp;b&amp; dead! .And-better
for you and all 9oncerne4 !"
"Oh, don't say so, Carl! Don't say so! Come and look
at him, and let the eight ~6ften' your heart to him," said the
girl, taking the youth's l~aud, and drawing him to the bed-
side. "Look, now, at that poor old wrinkled face-it has
not, got very lo~ig to live, anyhow-and see the two or three
thin, *hite hairs on his temples-and see the poor, poor
withered hands-so helpless! Oh~! I think it is all ~o pi~i-
ful. And now see, he is asleep, but how much trouble there
is on his poor old face-po, no! don't say ha~l thing~ of
him, it cuts me to the heart,! And, C4rl, no matter how bad
las- fit may behe never offers to hurt me or anything else.
Only terror and horror is aU 'that is on him! He is a gentle,
harmless, poor old man. And I always pity him like I pity
any one very ill."
"Kate! I dare say you think this is all tender-'hear~edness,
and you give yourself a great deal of credit for it! But I
tell you it's nothing but weakness. 4nd it may be the ruin
of you, too, before long~ And now I tell you, Pm going to
I

THE CURSE OF CLIFTON.

get a place for you, if I can. Yes, and make you go to it, too.
I can do without you-that is, I must do i~rithout you! I
can get the breakfast befoi~e I go away in the morning. And
I can leave something for the old man's dinner, and come
home time enough in the evening to get his supper! And
to-morroW I am going down to th9 turnpike gate' to thrash
Scroggings, and bring your bonnet home. And I'll tell him
if ever he 'lets the old man have any more liquor, I'll kick
him round his groggery till he hasn't got a whole bone left in
his body. Yes, and Ill do it, too !"
Kate was placing the supper on the table, but she 'turned,
with the same expression of countenance with which she had
stopped Fairfax at the foot of the stairs, and said-~
"I should be very Sorry for any violence from you, Oarl.
lint of one' thing be sure-do what you may, I will never,
never leave our grandfather !"
"There! now, whenever you get that hateful Maria Theresa
look, I hate you, Katterin! I hate to see strength in we-
nien! It don't belong to them, nor grace them, anyhow !"
"Strength of ~jfedion does, Carl. But now please call
the gentlemen down to supper," said Kate.
Carl rapped at the foot of the ladder, and summoned the
travellers accordingly.
Now, though Fairfax had honorably withdrawn from the
trap-dooi~, the moment he found thathis services would not
be required, and that the conversation between Kate and
Carl was growing confidential, yet every word of that conver-
sation had been distinctly heard by both young men, and had
produced an effect upon both. Frank with difficulty withheld
himself from exclaiming aloud, as pity, disgust, anger or ap-
probation moved him in turn. Captain Clifton, far less un-
pressible, and moi~e reserved than his companion, had re-
mahied perfectly quiet and silent, though his thoughts were
more practically busy with the case 'than those of his' com-
panion. They went down, and wei~e x~eceived at the foot of
the ladder by Carl, Who, with a sort of rough politeness,
placed stools at the table, and~ invited them to be seated.
They placed themselves at the board, at the head of which
Kate already presided, with folded hands and downcast eyes.
Then to their utter astonishment, the rude, irreverent young
man, Carl, stoodup and asked a blessing, saying, afterwards,

84


86                 TIJJ CURSE 0)' CLTh1TQN.

OUflSE 0)' CLTh~T0N.

that he was no parson, nor no Methodist, but Kate would
have it so, and he thought it was best upon the whole, not to
oppose females in such notions. And then he began to wait
upon his guests.
Their supper consisted of good coffee, with cream and ma-
ple sugar; good bread, with fresh~ butter and cheese; venison
steak and broiled chickens; and lastly, of a dish of baked
pears, cold, and a pitcher of milk. Frank was surprised to
find such excellence of fare amid the ragged poverty of the
mountain cabin; but, on afterwards expressing this,~surprise
to Captain Cliftou, he was told by the latter, that such con-
trasts were by no means rare. Mr. Fairfax applied himself
with zeal to the good things before him, until the sharpness
of his appetite was sated, and then lingered long over the
meal, conversing with his host upon the state of the country
in his region, the climate and soil, productions, market, etc.,
and receiving from the young mountaineer the information
that there was no great amount of produce about there, ex~
cept in the glens, grazing for the cattle, and that the roads
were so bad, and the towns and villages so distant, that no-
thing was raised for market, except such kind of produce as
could walk thither, - to wit: flocks and herds. That bis
grandfather, before the infirmities of age had come upon him,
had raised herds of kine and hogs, which he drove fifty miles
to market every year; but that was some tears ago, when he
himself was a child. That now they only had a few sheep,
which his sister tended while he was at work on apJktation
at the foot of the mountain. In reply to a question Frank
put while leisurely using his gold tooth-pick, the young man
informed him farther that himself and his sister were of Ger-
man and Irish descejit. That the old man, their grandfather,
was a German by birthbut had lived nearly seyMnty years
in America. That his name was Carl Wetzel, and his only
daughter, 'Caterina, had been married tQ an Irish emigrant,
of the name of Kavanagh. That they were the parents of
himself and sister. Finally, that they had b~en dead nearly
Seven years. It was farther ascertained that old Carl Wet-
zel had been a man of considerable education; ~nd it was
easily seen that Carl Kavanagh had inherited much of his
father's Irish quickness of intelligence, and much of his
grandfather's German love of knowledge.

4'
41
I
I
1~

Frank, on his part, was equally communicative, and, in
spite of the haughty reserve 'of Captain Clifton, informed his
host that he had come up in that neighborhood for the pur-
pose of acting as groomsman at the approaching marriage of
his friend, Captain Clifton, of the - Regiment of Ca-
vairy, to his cousin, Miss Carolyn Gower Clifton, of Clifton
Place. That their journey,~so far, had been rather disas-
trous; that they had set out from Washington City on horse-
back, but had become so fatigued by the excessiVe heat, that
they had been obliged, on arriving at Winchester, to take
places for themselves in the stage for Staunton, 'and to hire
a man to bring their hOrses after them-riding one and lead-
ing the other, and so alternately. That before reaching
Staunton, they had been thrown from the stage-without
serious injury to themselves, however, and'~had been obliged
to walk some ten miles to a village on their route, and wait
the arrival of their horses, which, fortunately, were not
many hours behind them. That they had ridden all day in
a thick fog, lost their way, came near going over a fearful
precipice, and finally got caught in the tempest that drove
them for shelter to the cabin.
During all this time, Captain Clifton had seemed lost in
thought, and only once spoke to inquire of the young moun-
taineer whether it were possible for them to pursue their
journey that night. To this the young man replied that it
would be impossible, even if it were then daylight, inasmuch
as the torrents were swollen so greatly. And at the thought
of pursuing their journey, a pang of remorse for his for-
getfulness of his horses shot through the breast of Frank,
and-
"What the devil can have become of Saladin ~" he ex-
claimed, starting up.
"Oh, he is safe," answered Clifton., "I ~saw them
both in the shed. as I looked from the little window up
stairs."
"Who put them there ~"
"I tended them," answered the girl, quietly.
They all-now arose from the table. The girl cleared the
hoard, and carried all the things out to wash up. Carl
begged his guests to excuse him, and went out 1o give the
horses a rub down and another feed.

86


F
~:
I
H
?i1~

THE CURSE OF CLIFTON.

Captain Clifton threw himself into the arm-chair) crossed
his legs, took out his tablets, and began to make memoran-
dums.
Frank irupertineutly peeped over l~is shoulder and read.-..
"Mem. Ask my mother if she can take a little girl as a
companion." Clifton closed tI~ book instantly, in silent
rebuke of Frank~'s impudence. And Frank himself walked
about fidgety and unhappy for not knowing what to do with
himself, until, at a restless movement of the old ~nan, he went
and poured out a mug of water, and carefully keeping be-
hind the eye of the patient, lifted up his head and gave him
drink, and after setting down the empty mug, fanned him till
he went sound asleep again.
The brother and sister soon returned. Carl sat down and
begun his best efforts at entertainment. But Frank, who
amused himself by seeing everything, saw Kate go up stairs
into the loft and bring down and carry out his own and his
friend's regimefitals.
After which she camein, and drawing a stool to the table,
sat down and began to knit, as quietly, as silently, as if no
strangers were in her hut.
Carl took down and laid upon the table a rough draught
board, and invited his gues1~s to play with each other.
Frank eagerly caught at the opportunity, but Captain
Clifton declined, on the plea of distaste to the amuse-
ment.
"Play with me, my dear fellow, for pity sake," said
Frank to Carl, "and don't mind my friend there! You see,
he doesn't want to play, neither does he want to talk, nor to
do anything but sit and think about Miss Clifton."
"Do play with him, and keep him quiet, if you can, my
good youth," said Captain Clifton, turning his cJ~ajr slightly
aside from the table, so that his face was in the .4hade. Op..
polite to him, at the other corner of the table, sat Katherine,
with the light shining full upon 9lier face and head, as she
bowed it over her work. Captain Clifton did not fall into a
brown study, he fell into a study of the brown girl. Let no
one presume to misinterpret him. It was not likely that a
man of twenty-five should fall in love with a girl of four-
teen9 Dotards do such things, not men. Then it was
Utterly preposterous to suppose that Archer Clifton, of

THE CUR8~ OW CLIFT0~?.

89

Clifton, Captain in the Regiment of Cavalry, the fasti-
dious amateur in female beauty, should be smitten with a
hard-featured, sun-burned girl, in a coarse, homespun frock;
that the all-accomplished scholar should be-charmed with
~ the little ignoramus; that the arrogant conservative of rank
should condescend tc~ a low-born mountaineer; or that the
expectant bridegroom of the beautiful and haughty Carolyn
Clifton, of Clifton, should wish ~o marry a girl who united
all these repulsive qualities of ignorance, ruggedness, and
low-birth. Yet if he could have looked only two short years
into the future!
But Clifton was a physiognomist,~and liked to study a
novel individuality. A new and very curious subject was
before him now. At first he had seen in Kate nothing more
than a coarse-featured, dark-skinned country girl. Now, as
he sat and watched ber at her quiet work, with her counte-
nance in the repose of thoughtfulness, he saw that her fea-
tures, though certainly not beautiful or classical, were even
of a higher order of physiognomy, combining the rarest
elements of power and goodness. The broad and massive
forehead, straight nose, and square, firm jaws, were the strong
and ugly features-the rugged frame work, as it were, of her
countenance, and indicated great force of character. But
her hair, eyes, and lips were beautiful. Her hair, of rich
dark brown, with golden lights, rippled around her forehead,
shading and softening its stern strength. iler eyes, large
and shadowy, with drooping lashes, and her lips sweetly
* curved, full, and pensively closed, suggested a profound depth
of tenderness. Indeed the brooding brow, the downcast eyes,
and the compressed lips seemed to be habitual with her, and
gave her countenance an expression of grief and care beyond
her years, and of thought and intellect above her station. As
Clifton sat and studied her, he thought-not of
"Full many a flower that's born to blush unseen,
And waste its sweetness on the desert air,~~
forthe girl did not resemble a flower so much as a hardy,
pine sapling of her native mountains. No; that look, strength,
intellect, and self-balance-in a word-that look of POWER,
suggested -rather-girl as she was-

88

4

4


Ii
~   11
Ii
5,           I
t$
If
'1,
I'
.,( f
~t ii:
I ~

TilE CURSE OF CLIFTON.

*

*

It was a Maria-Theresa face without the wickedness.
Captain Clifton's physiognon~ioal studies were. interrupted
by the abrupt starting of Frank, who exclaimed vehe-
mently-.
"Beaten in four games! Now, that's what I call out-
rageous! Don't you know, my dear fellow, that there are
three persons in the world who should never be 'beaten-a
guest, a woman, and a monarch ~"
Carl laughed and chuckled, and beating the draught-boai~d
tamborine-like above his head in triumph, carried it off and
put it away.
The whole party then arose to retire. Carl took the
candle and showed his guests up into the loft and left them
to repose.
"Now Where will that child sleep, for we have got her
room ?" asked Frank, with concern, as soon as they were
alone.
"Oh-h!" replied Captain Clifton, indifferently, "any-
where-on a pallet-perhaps, down stairs."
"But the old man and the young one-"
"Oh-h !" again drawled Clifton, in a bored tone, "if you
expect to ni~et with refinement among the mountain people,
you will be disappointed"
Long after the travellers had laid down to rest, they heard
the sound of 'footsteps movii~g about in the room below.
They moved quietly and cautiously, as if fearful of disturb'
ing the guests; but, as I said before, all sounds, even the
lowest, could be distinctly heard through tht~t shell of a
house.
On awaking the next morning, the young men found their
own clothes well cleaned, dried, and pressed, ready for them
to put on.
"Ah, ha !" said the sagacious Frank, "that is what the
poor girl was at work at so late htst night."
On going down staii~ they found the lower room neatly
~4 arranged, and breakfast ready for them-hot coffee, corn
~ pone, hot rolls, rashers of fried bacon, eggs, potatoes, etc.

THE OTJRSZ OP OLIPT0~T,
"Some village Hampden with ui~daunted breast,
*        *         *         *
Some mute inglorious Milton,  *       *
Some CROMWELL guiltless of his country's blood."

/ \',,,

40

And there, in the arm-chair, in a clean homespun suit, sat
the old man, looking as calm, as seJ.f~possessed, as noble and
venerable as a Roman senator. He arose and bowed to the
gentlemen~ and offered his chair to one of them,
No wonder it bowed the young girl's head with grief' and
shame-it pained and humbled even these strangers, to know
that~ this most reverend white-haired patriarch was often
transformed by drunkenness into the beast! It was a dis-
ease, Kate had often said, wringing her hands with anguish,
while seeing his degradation.
It was a disease, and never till vice is treated as such, will
an effectual remedy be applied.
Immediately after breakfast, the gentlemen took leave ot~
the family, and mounted their horses to pursue their journey.
Frank, in the thoughtless kindness of his heart, would have
offered the poor people some remuneration for their enter-
tainment, but Clifton, who knew the ~habits and feelings of
the mountaineers better, arrested a purpose that might have
given offence. But on parting with Carl Kavanagh, Captain
Cjifton expressed his thanks for the hospitality that had been
extended to himself and friend-adding, that if he could
then, or at any time, in any uiaiiner, be of use to his kind
host, he should be happy to serve him, etc., etc. To this the
young man replied-
"I thank you, sir. I know Captain Clifton by report, and
feel that I can trust to his generosity~ I have a heavy care
-my young sister. If you could hear of a place at service
for her among the honorable ladies of your family or acquain-
tance, I. should feel very grateful indeed, sir.
Captain Clifton kindly gave his promise to make inquiries.
Frank again shook hands with Carl, bowed to Kate, nodded
to the old man through the window, and then the travellers
turned from the door of the niountain hut, cantered briskly
up the glen, and took the road to WrnTE CLIFFs.

41


*
42                                                                                                      48

I:

CHAPTER II.

CLIFTON AND THE BEAUTIES.

THE torrents had been so terribly swollen and overflowed,
and the roads so dreadfully washed and guttei~ed by the tem-
pest and flood of the preceding evening, that the travellers
found the greatest difficulty in pursuing their journey, often
having to turn back miles on this road to take another way,
and often being obliged to search leagues up, and down the
course of a river, to find a practicable ford.
Therefore it was near night-fall when they crossed the la~st
range of forest-crowned mountains, and descended into the
wooded valley that lay between them and White Cliffs. A
winding road through the woods brought them to the house.
The full moon was rising East of the cliffs, and casting~their
shadow back across the house and lawn. The mansion was
a lofty edifi!,e of white stone, with terraced roof, and many
irregularpprojecting wings. The tall trees surrounding the
buildings, the lofty cliffs rising behind them, the dark shadow
falling on all; 4he hour, the silence, and the solitude, gave
an air of refreshing coolness and deep repose to the scene.
On turning an angle of the building, they saw the drawing-
room windows open, and the light from them gleaming out
cheerfully across that part of the lawn. At that moment a
servant, waiting at the hall door, came down to take their
horses.
~" All well at home, Dandy ~" inquired Captain Clifton, as,
he dismounted, and threw him the reins.
"Sarvint, sir! All very well," replied the man2 toueiing
his hat.

THE CURSE OF CLIFTON.,

Captain Clifton led the way up into the hail adjoining the
drawing room, where they were met by an old gentleman,
who seized both of Clifton's hands, and shook them slowly
and cordially, as he said, dropping each word separately,
with a hearty, luscious emphasis-
~ glad I am-to see you!"
"And I am very happy to 1~ with you, sir; and to find
you ~looking so well. Allow 4'e to introduce to your ac-
quaintance-JAeute ~t Fairfax, of my company," said Cap-
tain Clifton, prese ~ his friend.
"Glad to see hi ~. ~YUad to see Mr. Fairfax! Glad to
welcome any fria~ ~f~my nephew's to Clifton. How do you
do, sir ~ KneW~ yo~ir relative, Lord Fairfax, of Greenway
Courthouse. ~kc~s~ively fond of hunting. Kept bachelor's
hall. Very g' ~ista~ke, that-very! Hope you won't
follow his e      ~      man, however, and I honor his
memory                ct~tne in!  Come in, Archy!  My
-dear              ~~del-ighted to see you !"
Whenever          4o his nephew, he seemed ~o
~ ttble with a cordiality impossible~to ~
describ
*~ld gentleman, clothed in a fresh, fi
suit           men, with his hair as white as cot~q
fres ~ inpiexion, fine teeth, and clear, kind, blue .ey
ma izst refreshii~g picture of simplicity, cheerfulness,
audi eanhness of soul and 1~ody ~in old age. lie was of a
s~guine t~mperame~ and under hreat provocation,~ ~could K
~et into a p~sion, too. And what old father of a family,
with two grown daughters, and a young wife, al~ unde#'
eighteen years of age, and all beauties, has not enough com~
bustible material to burn the house down, or ~t his own tem-'
per on fire ~-yet such was the kindness of his heart, that
even when in violent anger, stamping up ~nd down the floor,
gras~ng desperately at his own white temple looks with both
hands, and vocifqrating in stentorian tones-it was all, as
Frank afterwards~ said, shooting with~ ~blank cartridges-he
never said a word, or did a thing, to wound a single soul.
I trustee ladies are all well, sir," said Captain Clifton,
as he follo~~d his uncle.
"Yes-yes-that is to say, Carry is ~v~jAl~ but not, well
pleased. She expected you yesterday-did~'t consider tl~e

4

~ /

THE CURSE OF CLIFTON.

Ii

j

I;

"Against the cliffit
See'st thou not where the mansion stands? The moonbeam
Strikes on the granite column, and tall trees
Group shadowy round it."~ANoNxrMous.
A most portentous trial waits thee now-
Woman's bright eyes and dazzling snowy ibroW~-.MooRE,

42

43


F

H
I'

storm any excuse for your absence. Ah! you dog-yousad
dog-at your age would I have kept a lady waiting ~ Nay,
would I do it now? IBut come, shatl I present you to the~
ladies~ now, or do you prefer first the refreshment of the bath,
and a change of dress ~ Your own and your friend's bag-
gage arrived this morning by the wagon, and has~ been con-
veyed to your rooms."
"Oh, a change of dress, by all ~ suggested Frank.
"Dandy-DANDY !" exclaimed the 61d gentleman, raising
his strong' voice, till the servant appeared, "show Mr.
Fairfax to General Washington's room."'
General Washington had slept one night at Clifton, and
from that time to this, the room he occupied has been
"General l,~Tashington~s room."
The servant conducted Mr. Fairfax up stairs. And then
the old gentleman, turning to his nephews took his hands
again, and said-
"My dear boy, once more I must say, I'm-..-~o-giad-to
-see you! You are at home, you know. So go ~nd find
your room, and ring and give your orders, my son, for you
are. so. And I will go and let the ladies know~that you have
come, though I dare say they know it already." .9
And shaking his hands, he let them ~go and tiiFned 'slowly
awa~y.                                    make ~em-
Half an hour sufficed the young gentlemen to
selves presentable. At the end of which time they descended
the stairs,, and were met in the hail by old Mr. Clifton, who
ushered them into the drawing-room.
This apartment was a most delightful summer room. It
was very spacious, occupying the whole first floor of one
of those irregular wings of the house. The ceiling was lofty,
the walls were covered with pearl white paper, and lhe floor
of white oak was waxed and polished to an, ivory sm9oth-
ness. On three' sides were tall windows, reaching t&amp; the
floor, and opening out upon the piazza or the lawn, and
draped with snowy, flowing curtains. On' the fourth side.
wa~ the open fire-place, whitened inside, and having on its
marbk hearth an alabaster vase of lilies, whose fragrance
filled the air. The walls were adorned with tall mirrors, and
with choice paintings, all of a cool, refrigerating character,
such as: An Alpine Scene, A G~een Forest Glade, with

TI~E CURSE OF CLIFTON.

45

:Deer Ileposing, A Mountain Lake, A Shaded Pond, with
Cows, A Farm Yard in a Snow Storm, etc. A piano stood
at the farthest end of the room. A harp reclined near it.
A few marble-topped stands and tables, scattered~ over with
rare prints, books, virtu, bijouterie, etc., stood at convenient
distances. A lady's elegant work-table, with its costly tri-
fles, was a pleasing feature in the room. Sofas, ottomans,
divans, and lounging chairs, "fitted to a wish for study or
repose," were everywhere at hand.
Through the open windows came the evening wind, laden
with the fragrance of flowers, the murmur of falling waters,
the whisper of leaves, and the cherry chirp of insects-
those night songsters who begin when the birds go to sleep.-.
nature's vesper choir. While from the open windoWs could
be darkly seen the tall shadowy trees, the towering white
cliffs, and, in the distance, a bend of that great river which
took its rise here, and which there sleeping among the dark
green hills, with the moon shining full upon it, seemed a re-
splendent mountain lake, flashing back the moonbeams from
its bosom in rays of dazzling light. The whole effect of
the room and the scene was delightfully cooling and re-
freshing.
When Mr. Clifton conducted his guests into this saloon,
it was occupied by three young ladies, who, immediately on
their entrance, arose to receive them; and whom, in present-
ing his visitors, Mr. Clifton severally named as, My wife,
Mrs. Clifton,-my daughter, Miss Clifton, and my second
daughter, Zuleime. Captain Clifton, in turn, saluted his aunt
rind cousins. Miss Clifton, his betrothed, received him with
cold hauteur.
So, these were the heauties-.-and beautiful, passing beau..
tiful, they were indeed, though differing from each other in
beauty, as "' one star differs from another in glory." But
let me describe them.
Carolyn Clifton is tall and elegantly proportioned, and
moves with high-bred dignity. Her features are Grecian.-.
her complexion is dazzlingly fair, save when the pure rich
blood mantles in her cheek, and crimsons the short and scorn-
ful lip. Her eyes are blue, and half veiled by their fair
lashes, as in disdain of aught that might seek their glance.
Her fair hair is carried up from her forehead, and falls~ in
VOL. J.-4

44

THE CURSE OP CLIFTON.

.4

K
U
'I'
4

ft'.
14

- ~ A'


II

bright tendril-like curls around the back of her neck) lend-
ing an intellectual and queenly grace to the proud hea~i.
The costume of that day closely resembled the prevailing
mode of our own. Miss Clifton wore a dress of pale blue
silk, made low in the neck, with a long-waisted stomacher,
tight sleeves reaching to the elbows, and ample flowing skirt.
The neck was trimmed with a fall of deep lace, then called
a "tucker," and answering to the present bert/us. The tight
half-sleeves were trimmed~ at the elbows by deep lace ruffles,
shading the arm. A necklace of large strung pearls aronnO
her throat, a bracelet of the same on her arm, and a pearl-
headed pin run through the Grecian knot of ringlets at the
back of her head, completed her toileL She carried in hei
hand and toyed carelessly with a beautiful fan of marabout
feathers. She was the daughter of the first Mrs. Clifton, of
Clifton, a fair, proud Maryland lady, one of the haughty
Gowers, who lived long enough to augment by precept and
example, the double portion of family arrogance Carolyn
Clifton had inherited from both sides of her house. Miss
Clifton had "received her education" at a first-class "La-
dies' Institute" at Richmond.
Zuleime, the younger sister, was about fourteen years of
age, but well grown and full-formed for her years. She was
the daughter of the second Mrs. Clifton, a beautiful West
Indian Creole, who died in giving her life. Sbe had the
snowy skin and damask cheek of her father's fair race,
and the glittering black hair and sparkling black eyes of her
Creole mother. Her dress was of plain 'white muslin, with
short sleeves and low neck, and coral necklace, which well
set off the exceeding brilliance of her complexion. Zuleime
was home for the mid-summer holidays.
Mrs. Clifton, of Clifton, Georgia!
"Yes, she is indeed the most beautiful woman in the whole
world," exclaimed Fairfax, to himself, as he turned from the
fair and dignified Carolyn-the brilliant and sparkling Zu-
leime, to the dark and graceful. Georgia. She is of medium
height~. Her complexion is a rich, dark, uniform olive, her
very cheeks being of the same hue, but so transparently clear1
that that which would mar the perfection of another face,
adds deeper' beauty to hers. Yes! the delicate bloom of
the fair Carolyn, and the bright damask blush of the bril-

46             THE CURSE OF CLIFTON.                                  THE CURSE OF CLIFTON.          47

\~ I
A'
I
4

I

liant Zuleim'3, seem common-place beside the perfect beauty
of the 'pure, clear olive cheek of the dark Georgia. Hex
hair is intensely black, with depths under depths of dark..
ness, lurking in the labyrinths of irregular curls that cluster
around, and throw so deep a shadow over her witching face.
Her eyebrows are black and arched. Her eyelashes are long,
black, and drooping. her eyes are-pause-I have been
trying to think of something to which her wondrous eyes
may be 'compared, for darkness, profundity and power. Mid-
night? No, her eyes are darker, stiller, and more solemn
yet. Thunder clouds'? No, for her eyes are more stormy
and impending still-and their electric stroke is silent as it
is fatal. In short, her eyes resemble nothing but themselves.
Her dress is of black gauze, over black silk, made high to
veil her neck, and finished with a narrow black lace, within
which gleams around her throat a necklace of jet and gold.
She wears no other jewelry. A large black lace mar~tilla is
carelessly thrown over all.~ When she moves her every
movement is undulating grace-her motion might be set to
music. And when she sits still she is so still, and dark, and
beautiful-and something else, besides, that the gazer expe-
riences something like the fascination and terror one feels in
looking down the' depths of a dark chasm.
She was the daughter of a portrait painter in Richmond,
and this was what Captain Archer Clifton, in his arrogance,
called humble parentage. Mr. Clifton had met her under
the following circumstances: On finally withdrawing his eld-
est daughter from school, he wished, befoic carrying her
home, to have her portrait taken, and went for that purpose
to the stadjo of Mr. Fuller, portrait and miniature painter,
where he chanced to see her for the first time, the artist'~
beautiful child, Georgia. He took so strong a fancy to this
bewitching creature, that he delayed his departure-prolong-
ing his stay in the city for three weeks, at the end of which,
besides the accomplished Miss Clifton, with her elegant
wardrobe, splendid jewels, costly presents, and finished por-
trait-he took home the artist's daughter as the fourth Mrs.
Clifton, of Clifton, much to the indignation of the haughty
Carolyn, who never ceased to treat her beautiful young step-
mother with scorn and contempt.
Supper was announced, and the old gentleman, rising,

AlA
'4

46

47

4
?
5


A8             THE CURSE OF CLIFTON.                                   THE CURSE OF OLIFTON.           49

j
I'

requested his nephew to lead in his wife, while ho himself,
took the arm of his eldest daughter, and left Zuleime to Mr.
Fairfax. They crossed the hall and entered a large and
pleasant dining-room, where stood an elegant table, laid with
a damask table-cloth, set out with silver plate, and Seyres.
porcelain, and laden "with all the luxuries of the season."
Waiters of perfect dress and address were in attendance.
"I assure you, Miss Zuleime, that contrast is all the sea-
soning of existence-and this is a high seasoning. For yes-
terday we sat down to eat supper off of pewter plates, on a
bare board, in a mean hut, in company with rude moun-
taineers, and to-night' we sit at the elegant tea-table of
Clifton, surrounded with beautiful, refined, and accomplished
ladies," said Frank, as he' handed his 'lively companion into
her chair, and took the seat by her side.
The sprightly Zuleime laughed, and said she doubted~
whether he would find more substantial or savory fare here
than he got at the moi~ntain-hnt.
After all were seated, and all served, the conversation'
became general and vivacious-old Mr. Clifton being evi-
dently "the life of the company." He chatted, jested,
laughed, told anecdotes, and finally, inspired Frank, who
gave a laughable description of their adventures on the Alle"
ghanies; of being upset in the stage-coach, and pitched into
Wolf's Lick; of being lost in the fog, and near going down
the Devil's Staircase; finally, of being caught in the tempest,
and shut up in a mountain-hut with a raving maniac. At
this the old gentleman began to rally his proud daughter on
her gratuitous ill-humour of the preceding evening, at the
said delay, and then to scold the young men for their effemi-
nacy aiid want of gallantry, courage, in suffering themselves
to be deluged by the, storm. Now, to be charged, all at
once., with effeminacy, and want of gallantry, and courage,
even in jest, was too much~ and in Frank's case, too near
the truth to go without reply. So he began vehemently to
clear his fame, assuring the assembled company that it was
not altogether effeminacy; for that they had been hospitably
sheltered in the cabin of a beautiful shepherdess.
"Xes," said Frank,.maliciously, "so beautiful that Clifton
there couldff't keep his eyes off her, and while I sa~ and
played 6heeker8 with her brother, he sat and studied' her

"Oh, what a deal of scorn looked beautiful
In the contempt and anger of her lip'!"

6

There are some women who cannot bear jest upon such
subjects-who cannot tolerate that their lovers should look
with common curiosity-far less gaze with interest or admi-
ration "for hours," upon any other young female face. And
such a woman was Carolyn Gower Clifton. Captain Clifton
knew this, and adoring her above all things, silently wished
Frank and the mountain girl both at the bottom of the Devil's
Staircase.
The old gentleman chatted and laughed; Frank jested
and blundered; the sprightly Zuleime sparkled and over-
flowed with fun and frolic, and the meal went on merrily~
notwithstanding.
'When supper was over they adjourned to the airy summer
drawing-room, where they distributed themselves according
to their several humors. Miss Clifton passed imperiously
down the room, and tool( her seat upon a distant divan.
Oaptain ~Clifton followed, with a troubled air, and sat down
4*

face, 'and it were a book'-for hours. I wish you had seen
him, Miss Clifton-
"'Never gazed the moon
Upon ~he water as he sat and read
As 'twere her eyes.'
Fact, my dear lady, and I should be guilty of misprision of
treason, to conceal it !" laughed Frank, shaking his head at
his friend.
"Ah-h-h! H-a-a-ah !-are you there, my fine fellow !"
chuckled the old gentleman, gleefully rubbing his hands,
and pointing his finger at his nephew, greatly ~enjoying his
discomfiture.
"I assure you, si;," began Captain Clifton, gravely.
"Oh! don't assure me! don't assure me! Assure
Carolyn! What d'ye think o' that, Carolyn ~ What d'ye
think o' that ~ More cause for ill-humor last night, than
ye thought, eh! What think o' that V' he continued, mer-
cilessly.
And Carolyn-

t

I,

j4~

48


II ~
11
'1
~4j
V
I

THE CURSE 0~' CLiPTON.

on the low ottoman at her feet. They doubtless thought-
if they thought at all-that they were in a very obscure
nook. But Frank bad the impertinence to see them. There
sat the haughty and scornful girl, with chin erect, lip
curled, and eyelids cast down in disdain upon her supplant.
And there sat Archer Clifton, with his high, proud face
turned up to hers, with an earnest, pleading, passionate
gaze!
"Now, by the venom of Cupid's shaft !" exclaimed Frank,
to himself, "I cannot see what Clifton finds to worship in
that arrogant girl. If it were this bright, warm Zuleime,
here, now! ]3~~t her! I might really suspect him of being
a fortune-hunter, and her of being an heiress, if I didn't
know that Archer Clifton is himself the heir of the entailed
estate of Clifton, and that if his uncle were to die tonight,
he might, if. he pleased, turn all these penniless women out
of the house to"morrQw! Can't understand it, for my life!
But I suppose the bond of sympathy between them i,~ their
name and their pride !"
"Do you find talking to yourself a very amusing pastime,
Mr. Fairfax," asked Zuleime, touching him on the elbow.
"No, my dear, delightful little girl, I don't. What a
delightful thing, in a country house, is a beautiful girl of
fourteen, home for the holydays-a black-eyed, red-lipped
girl, in a white muslin gown and a coral necklace !"
"Are your soliloquies as good nature as your converse~
tion, Mit. Fairfax," inquired the laughing Zuleinie.
"Not quite, ~ afraid, my dear."
"Do you know. how to play chess, Mr. Fairfax ~" she
asked, opening the chess-board.
"I know how to play anything you wish me to play, my
love-even the fool !"
"Oh! the latter is not so rare or difficult an accomplish-
ment," laughed the maiden, taking her seat, and beginning
to arrange the chess-men. Frank sat down, and they com-
menced the game in earnest.
All this time the old gentleman, with his white head and
rosy face, and kind smile and glance, had been walking
leisurely up and down the floor slowly, robbing his hands
with an air of great enjoyment-p~iusing now by the work-
table. at which sat his beautiful wife, and gazing on her

THE CURSE 01~' CLIJTON.

51

fondly while he toyed with the elegant trifles of her work-
box-then sauntering off towards the chess-table, and patting
the head of his "little black-headed darling"-as he called
Zuleime-or passing a jest with Frank as he overlooked the
game-until the boy came from the post-office somewhat late;
when taking the paper he went and ensconced himself in an
easy-chair on the opposite side of his wife's work-table, and
was soon busied in the perusal of the debate on Mr. Jeffer-
son's bill for cutting off entails. Frank felt very much
pleased that the old boy, as he mentally called him, was
quieted at last, and that he himself had at length an oppor-
tunity of initiating his. charming companion into the mys-
teries of flirtation, while she imparted to him the secrets
of chess.
The room was now very quiet. And Frank was soon deeply
immersed in his game. Yes-'the room was very quiet, it
seemed the sanctuary of domestic love and happiness! At
one extremity sat the betrothed lovers, conversing in a low
tone, softer than the hum of far-off bees. At the other ex-
tremity sat the graceful young' wife, placidly pursuing her
quiet work, and seeming more like the darling spoiled child
of the old man, her husband, who sat reading by her side,
and whose kind eyes~ often wandered from the paper anl
rested fondly upon her. About midway of the room, sat
Frank and his briglit companion, too deeply interested in
their chess to notice the happy lovers, or to observe the quiet
contentment of the old man with his beautiful darling. Yes,
this room seemed a temple of domestic truth and trust~-of
family peace and joy. At least so thought Frank, until
raising his eyes from his game, his glance chanced to fall for
an instant upon the face of Mrs. Clifton.
It might have been the darkness of her surroundings
which threw into such strong relief that fearful countenance,
for the black dress and flowing black mantilla veiled all her
form, while the clustering deep black curls darkly shaded
her face. Her form was turned from the table and bent
over the arm of the chair-her bosom was heaving, her lips
.apart and humid, her nostrils slightly distended, and her
eyes, those dreadful eyes, fixed with a passionate, fierce,
devouring gaze upon some distant object.
Fr~nk impuhively followed the direction of that eonsumin~

50

.1

.1
I

'.4


9

52

I1,~,
'C
I
U

gaze, to where the betrothed lovers sat 'fully reconciled.
Clifton, unconscious of all eyes, but those blue orbs that
smiled so graciously upon him, was pressing Carolyn's hand
to his lips in an ecstaey of love and gratitude. Frank
turned again to Mrs. Clifton. Her countenance had changed
as by the passage of a thunder-cloud. Her bosom was still
as death. Her brow and cheek was darkened, her teeth and
lips. clepehed together, her eyes fixed upon the levers with
'the baleful glare of a demon, If the head of the fabled Me-
dusa had suddenly met his astonished gaze, he could not
have felt a, deeper thrill of horror. And yet it was only a
look-~-the look ~f an instant-it came and went like the
swift swooping past of a fiend's wing-but the shadow on all
things ~eemed to remain. No more did that room seem the
blessed retreat of household faith and love-no! a deadly
serpent lay coiled among its flowers-a deadly poison lurked
in its cup of joy-the shadow of a demon's wing was brood-
ing in the air-the house was CURSED!
Frank was of a highly honorable nature, but nervous and
impressible-he could no longer confine his attention to the
game; he misplayed awkwardly-ridiculously. Zuleime
laughed at him-and her silver laughter struck almost un-
pleasantly upon his ear. He lost the game, and finally,
complimenting his young antagonist upon the excellence of
her own play-an excellence which he admitted he had not
fully brought out-Frank arose from the table and sauntered
~ut into the piazza, exclaiming inwardly-" Ugh ! ii believe
in Sata~i, since I've seen that woman! Ugh! Whe-ew!
Every time I think of her I shall feel hot and smell brim-
stone !" 12 said that Frank was of an extremely impressible
natur~. He stood now upon the piazza at the back of the
house, and the majestic crescent of cliffs was before him.
~he quiet of the night, the freshness of the dew, the coolness
of the breeze, the beauty and sublimity of the mountains
rising from their girdle of forest, with their peaks bathed in
~ioonlight-.-the distant glimpse of the bend in the river,
where it lay like a silver lake among the hills-the divine
peace and holiness of nature fell soothingly, refreshingly
upon his excited nerves. And after sauntering up and down
the piazza for some twenty minutes, he returned, to the par"
hr in a happier mood. There he found the family grouped

THE CURSE 01? CLIFTON.

53

around the table on which sat a silver basket of pine-apples,
with cut-glass plates, and silver fruit knives and napkins.
"Come, Mr. Fairfax, my dear fellow, we are waiting for
you," said the old genti~mafl, beckoning him.
Frank joined them at the table, and after this repast was
over, the family separated and retired to bed.

TH~ OUUS~ OF CLIFTON.

C--
4'


54             TIlE CURSE OF CLIFTON.                               THE CURSE OF CLIFTON.           55

CHAPTER III.
MRS. CLIFTON~ OF HARDBARGAIN.
She is a lady of confirmed honor, of an unmatchable spirit, and de.
terminate in all virtuous resolutions; not hasty lo anticipate atfront, nor
slow to feel where just provocation is given.-OnAuL~s LAMB.
CLIFTON by the morning sunlight! Oh! that I could
show it to you as Fairfax saw it from the balcony of his
chamber on the morning after his arrival! The whole face
QJ the country was very high~ yet even this elevated land
was broken into hills and valleys, rocks, and glens. Behind
the house 'arose the white cliffs so often mentioned, shutting
out the Northern view, but before the house lay the valley
in which the plantation was situated, and around that, East,
West an~ South, stretched a magnificent panorama, ridge
beyond ridge of mountains, covered with gigantic forests,
clothed with the richest verdure, rolling on until they gradu-
ally faded away in the distance, their forms lost among the
clouds of the horizon. It seemed a vast, boundless ocean of
greenery, of which the vales and mountains were the stu-
pendous waves, charmed to sleep.
It was a magnificent solitude. Not a human dwelling to
be seen. The planters' mansions-if there were any in the
neighborhood, were low in the vales, and hidden from sight.
The mountain torrent, as' it came leaping down the side of
the cliff, running through the wooded lawn, losing itself in
the forest vale, and reappearing as a mountain lake among
the distant hills, was a beautiful feature in the landscape.
The deep intense blue of the clear skies, the early splendor
of the pun-light, the murmur of the breeze among the wav-
ing tre~s, the joyous songs of birds, gladdened all the scene,
and put to flight Frank's blue devils, long before Dandy'
called him to breakfast.
The breakfast-table was set in the lawn under the shadow
~of the pine elms.

The old gentleman, in his suit of cool white linen-the
sisters in neat morning dresses of white cambric, and the
dark Georgia, in her usual 'dress of black, were assembled
on the piazza. They greeted Mr. Fairfax with lively wel-
come,. telling him that Clifton li&amp;d not yet made his appear-
ance. But even while they stoke, Captain Clifton joined
them, and they sat down to breakfast. Those breakfasts on
the lawn! How many times in after years, in the sultry
heat .of the city hotel, did Fairfax recall them!
Soon after breakfast, Captain Clifton invited Mr. Fairfax
to accompany him in a ride up the ridge to his mother's
farm. And after taking leave of the ladies they set out.
They lef1~ the 'house by the back way, and took a winding
bridle-path up the side of the cliffs. The day was very fine
and cool, and their path was shaded by overhanging trees.
It was altogether a delightful ride, and as they went
Clifton, who led the way, turned his head around and in-
quired-
"Frank! what 'instigated you to romance so last night
about our sojourn at the mountain hut ~"
"Romance ~ I didn't romance, except in saying that the
girl was beautiful. I said that for your credit !"
"Oh! I ought to be exceedingly obliged to you !"
"Yes-I think so, too-but what malicious Puck gave
you a love-weed, and fooled you into sitting and studying
that ugly little girl's hard face all the evening ~"
"I did not think 'her ugly at all. She has a noble coun-
tenanqce. A most noble countenance. One, of which an
empress might be proud of!"
"Ha, ha! Ha, ha, ha, ha, ha! F saw nothing but a
mountainous forehead, and a strong portcullis jaw!' 'Noble!'
Ha, ha, ha, ha, ha! I said you'd taken the love-powder !"
"Yet even you cannot find any but a noble simile in speak-~
ing of her 'ugly' features !"
"Ah! what will Miss Clifton think of this admiration V"
"Sir, Miss Clifton has my deepest homage, and when she
is my wife, she will indulge no follies. But, Fairfax, yoa
are absurd, and I beg you will abandon this ridiculous con-
versation. You know that I have always had a proclivity
to the study of character. Nature made me something of a
physiognoniist. And if there be any truth in my favGrite

65


66               Tfl1~ OURSD~ OD' CLIFTON.                                   TR1~ OUR5~. OD' OLIFTON.            57

Science, that mountain girl's face presented the most extra-
ordinary combination of power and goodness I have ever
met with."
"Oh! then you only studied the maiden as the botanist
would study a new plant, the geologist a new fossil, or the
naturalist a strange animal ~-.--"
-" Or the astronomer a new STAR ~ Precisely, sir! Ex-
cept that the human' being is the highest and most absorbing
study of all
"Really! really! this passes belief-the proud, fastidious
Archer Clifton, to be smitten with an ugly mountain girl !"'
"Frank! Nonsense-you really anger me. Listen, then,
and I will tell you why that cbild-for she is but a child-.-..
interested me so much. I saw in her face the signs of won-
derfu.l force of character, as yet undeveloped, and I saw in
~ll her actions that which corroborated their testimony. I
was surprised to find all that in the humble mountaineer,
and speculated as to what, in her very humble situation, it
might lead. That was simply all !"
"And did you'not wish to be a providence to the moun-
tain girl, and open a field for so much energy V'
"Perhiips such a thought might have presented itself to,
my mind. If soit was dismissed at once. A highly gifted
man of low birth must have extraordinary talents indeed,
Fairfax, really this conversation has taken
ud be placed in extraordinary Circumstances, to elevate-
above his condition-for a ~girl in such a case it is
tone than I designed it should. .Really,
character, though very rare among 'the lower
classes of society, is yet' not so impossible as t~ excite our
wonder.. there are others like Kate Kavanagh-.-"
-.-" 1:tow pat you've got her name! Now I bad forgotten
it!" there are others Yk her. Tb a~borsi
"Pooh!   ~say                ie         ey
great-.--they live and die, and the world hears nothing ~of
them. And talents that might have swayed the eounsels'~of
a monarch, and decided the destinies of an ~znpire% have
been employed to direct the household ~f a s~e~he~4, and'
determine the fate of a sheep! Such is the erd~r of soCiety;
and better, far better so, than that its boundaries 'should be
thrown down, its ranks intermingled !"

"There spoke a Clifton of Clifton ~" said Frank.
They 'were now at the top of the ridge, and entering upon
a hard, stony, half-reclaimed farm, in the midst of which
stood a rude, but substantial house, built of hewn rocks of
every shade of gray, and surrounded by trees. Below them,'
all around, rose the forest-crowned hills; behind them the
white cliffs concealed the mansion of Clifton from their sight;
all around them lay fields of stunted corn.
"This is Jlardbargain," said Captain Clifton, opening a.
rude farm gate, and holding it open, while his companion
passed through.
"Hardbargain! a most appropriate name! I should think
it the hardest of all bargains, to receive this farm as a pre-
cious gift," replied Frank, looking around upon the stony
held and stunted corn.
admitted Captain Clifton," it is a~ell-merited title.
once called Rocky Ridge. A poor man got a grant
of it, and settled there first.-spent all his health and strength
in trying to bring the rugged soil under cultivation-failed
'-chri~tened the place llardscrahble, and sold it to my grand-
father for thrice its value. My grandfather repented. the
purchase, re-christened the ill-starred farm Hardbar~ain,
and, as the Clifton estate was entailed upon his eldest son,
gave this farm' as a portion to his yo~mger son, my Lather..
My father was then a subaltern officer in the Continental
Army, and absent with Washington, at Valley Forge. My~
mother, with myself, then an infant, was a temporary
sojourner at Clifton, No sooner had my grandfather made a
gift to my father of this neatly barren farm, than my mother
set all her faculties at work for its cultivation and improve-
ment. My mother was nearly penniless, being the daughter
of a family of decayed fortune. My father was uiiable to
send her anything except the Continental notes, with which
he himself wa~ paid, but which would scarcely pass farther.
But being. determined not to eat the bread of dependence by
remaiuing~t Olifton after my grandfather's death~ mymother
sold' 'all her jewelry and plate, which had been left her by a.
deceased x~iaid1en ai~nt, and applied the proceeds of the sale
to thc in~provei~ent of Rardbargain. She' hired laborers.
There was a i~ud~ log hut, built by the first settler upon the
land. She hired a woman~ and placed her in that hut to
VOL. I.-5"'

56


58             THE CURSfl OF CLIFTON.                                  THE CURSE OF 0LIFTOI~.           59

keep house and cook for them. She read books on agricul-
ture, and consulted my uncle's overseer upon the same sub-
ject. And every morning she rode up and spent the day at
Ilardbargain, overlooking the laborers. She was her own
overseer!' Frank! you appreciate high worth when you see
it! I may, besides, tell you anything-you are my only
companion-I tell you that my dear mother was one in ten
thousand. She was a true heroine, a heroine of domestic
lifej 'Abandoning all her habits of elegance and refinement,
despising luxury, ease and comfort, disdaining the sneers of
the world, and giving herself to toil and hardship, and weari-
ness of body and mind, that she might win from the desert
an independent home for her family! My dear mother- had
no reason to suppose, and never admitted the possibility that
my uncle would not be blessed with a male heir, that I, her
son, for whom 'she toiled to secure a rugged farm, would be
the inheritor of entailed Clifton! And so she toiled, year
after year, until at the end of the war, when the army was
reduced, and my father came home, he found a comfortable
house, and a productive farm."
Clifton seemed to have fallen into one of his fits of remi-
niscence; scarcely conscious that he was talking to his true
but volatile friend, scarcely conscious that he was talking at
all, he went on-
"My first recollection of my dearest mother, is of a very
noble looking lady, of dark complexion, black hair, and gray
eyes. II recollect, when an infant of four years old, being
brought out from the mansion house of Clifton every morn-
ing, to the back road gate, where she sat upon her horse
awaiting me, with a little basket, containing our dinner,
hanging, on the horn of the saddle. I used to be lifted to
the saddle before her, and while her left arm encircled me,
with hcr right hand she would guide her horse around the
base of the cliff, and take the winding bridle-path that led
up the Rocky Rid~, upon which lay her sterile farm of
Hardbargain. Oh! I remember how she used ti~ ride from
field to field, making investigations, and giving directions to
her rude workmen-and with what deference the rough mm
were 'ised to address her-hat in hand~ I' remember, too,
our cold dinners, taken under the shade~ of ar~ elm free,
4.~bbse iowcst branches sheltered a fin&amp; spring--the he~d

waters of that very torrent, which, in course of time and
space, swells into the mighty river I told you of. Oh! my
noble mother! how few would have displayed her courage
and fortitude !-not one in a million but would have rather
sat down in the luxurious ease and abundance of Clifton,
where she had a long welcome for as long as she should
choose 4o stay-rather than have dared the toil and hard-
ship that she endured. The land was at. last cleared up, the
farm laid off in order, and brought under the best possible
cultivation. A comfortable house was built, and my mother
moved into it to receive my father when he should come
home, at the disbanding of his company. He came at last-
it was a happy time-and well I remember~ how my mother's
young, but 'stern and weather-beaten face, bloomed &amp;~nd
softened again into youth and beauty and womanhood, by her
soldier's side. But~ ah! he had survived all the horrible
perils and sufferings by cold, hunger, and the foe, endured
by our army during that long and terrible ~struggle, and re-
turned safe, to die in a time of peace-to die at home, where
every care and comfort surrounded him. Yes, he came home
in the winter of -82. Towards the spring, he took a slight
cold-it was neglected as of little account-it settled upon
his lungs-before winter came again, he died, and the first
snow that fell, fell upon his grave. My honored mother was
a strong-minded woman. After what IL have told you, you
know that she was! She loved him as only the strong can
love. She suffered' as only the strong can suffer. She rose
above that death-blow to her happiness as only the strong
can rise, But she has never been the same woman since.
When a few years had passed, and her son's welfare demanded
her care, she aroti~ed every faculty of her mind a4nd body,
for -the 'purpose of insuring' his greatest good. Even at
that epoch of time, there was no reason to suppose that .1
should inherit the Clifton estate. My uncle was then in the
prime of manhood, had married his second wife, and by no
means despaired of male issue. My dear mother taxed soul,
body and estate to the utmost, to defray my expenses at
college, luring ..the seven years of my residence there. It
was also to her persevering exertions, as well as to ~he late
military services of my deceased father, that I owed ~ny com-
mission in the army. They say that mi8fortun~s neve ~ p


60              TuB CURSE OF CLIFTON.                                   TIlE CURSE OF CLIFTON.            61.

single. Good fortz~ne certainly never does, if I may judge
of our own experience of both. When I had left college,
the heaviest tax was raised from our income, and when I oh-
tamed a commission in the army, nay year's pay more than
doubled the annual income from the proceeds of the farm.
At this time also .my mother received a legacy from an aged
and distant relative, which enabled her. to stock her farm
well, and furnish her house comfortably. Furthermore, my
uncle having lost his tkird wife, and at last given up all
thoughts of a son 'of his own; began to take quite a paternal
interest in rae-insisting, when off duty, I should 8pcnd all
my time with him-and finding neither myself nor my mo-
ther disposed to forego each other's society, ~would have per-
suaded the latter to take upcher abode under his roof. But
that arrangement did not suit my mother. She, who in her
young womanhood had too high a spirit for dependence-
preferring to give herself to severest toil and privation, rather
than live in easy luxury under another's roof-could not in
her stern maturity be bribed to give up her well-earned in-
dependence. Nor indeed, under any circumstances, should
I have consented to the plan. We compromised the matter
by my agreeing to spend half the time of furlough at Clifton.
This was the more congenial to my feelings, as my cousin
Carolyn had now left school permanently. As for my uncle,
he consoled himself for his disappointment in not getting my
mother's society at Clifton, by marrying a fourth wife."
"I am impressed with the idea that your mother is a very
proud woman, Clifton !" said Frank, taking advantage of
Captain Clifton's first thoughtful pause.
"No, no," he answered, slowly, as in half reverie, "no-
sI~e is not what the world calls proud-she is no conservator
of rank, as I am. She is the only true republican I know
in this whole Republic. Sprung, herself, from an ancient,
noble, and haughty race, she yet honors talent and virtue,
when met with~ in the lowest ranks, as much-nay, I verily
'believe, more, than when found in the highest circles, where
it is natural they should be more frequently seen."
"But here we are, and you shall judge for yourself,"
concluded Captain Clifton, as he opened a 'gate admitting
them into a shady yard, in the midst of which.stood the hopse.
They alighted at the, gate and gave their horses into theichtu~go

of a negro boy, and walked on to the house. It was a plain
oblong stone building, of two stories, with a deep, shady
piazza, running the whole length of the front. It was divided
through the centre by a wide passage, way, the front and
back doors of which were both open and drawing a fine draft
'of air, and from which opened four large airy rooms, two on
a side. They stepped up on the piazza, and were met at the
front door by a neatly clothed negro girl, who admitted them
into the passage, and opening a door on the right hand next
the front, showed them into a ~ol, breezy, but plainly fur-
nished parlor; the walls and ceiling being simply white-
washed, and the floor bare but highly polished with wax, as
was the summer custom of the country at that day. The
fire-place was open and filled with green bushes. The win-
dow-curtains, and the lounge, and easy chair covers, were
all of chintz. There was a reality of substantial and perma-
nent comfort about the place, that Frank thought he had
never seen elsewhere. And when Clifton invited him to be
seated, and he rested himself in one of those cool arm-chairs
in that shaded room, he declared that a feeling of at-home-
ativeness came over him, such as he had never experienced
since he left his own mother's house, and never hoped'to feel
again until he should have a house of his own. The negro
girl whom Clifton addressed as Hennie, then left the room to
summon her mistress, and shortly after the lady of the house
entered.
Mrs. Clifton, of llardbargain, 'was now about fifty years
of age-tall, and inclining to en bon point, but not more so
than well became her years. Her complexion was dark, arid
her hair and eyes black. Her features were strongly marked
and commanding, indicative of great strength of will and
indomitable firmness of purpose, all moderated, however, by
the expression of her countenance, which was at once coim~
posed and gracious. Her manner was marked by unaffected
dignity and courtesy-her dress was of very plain dark silk,
made high to the throat, and with sleeves coming down to
the wrists, a small ruff set closely around her neck, fastened
with a mourning pin. Her ~only head-dress was her own
black hair, which, though slightly mingled with gray, was
worn uncovered. Indeed, cap or turban upon that noble
head would have looked impertinent. She advaneedi~to the
41


62             THE CURSE OF CLIFTON.                                 THE CURSE OF CLIFTONb            08

room and greeted her son with affection, and welcomed Mr.
Fairfax with courtesy, though her words were so few, and
her maimer was so calm, as to seem cool. Frank thought
her a very noble looking woman, though somewhat stiff and
cold. Indeed, all strangers, and superficial observers, thought
her cold and proud. ~Never was a greater misapprehension
of character-never did a larger or more generous heart live
in the bosom of woman-albeit, its pulsations were of the
calmest and most regular character. She sat down and en-
tered into an easy conversation with her son and his friend,
inquiring into the particulars of their journey, and making
conunents as they were related. Once during the recital her
cheek almost imperceptibly changed. It was at the telling of
the hair-breadth escape at the brink of the Devil's Staircase,
but upon that she made no observation whatever. She rang
a little hand-bell, which was answered by the entrance of
Hennie. She took a bunch of keys from her pocket, and
giving them to the girl, directed her to bring refreshments.
Ilennie left the room, but soon returned bearing a large
waiter with home-made wine, cake, and a basket of fine
peaches and pears. While they regaled themselves upon
these luxuries, she inquired after the health and well-being
of the family of White Cliffs, and having received satisfactory
answers, turned to Mr. Fairfax and hoped that he was suffi-
ciently well pleased with their neighborhood to favor it with
a long sojourn. Frank assured her that he should never
grow weary of the delights of his visit, and should conclude
it only when compelled to do so, and then with great regret.
The conversation thon became of more general interest. The
weather, the condition of the roads, the health of the neigh-
borhood, &amp;c., were discussed. And ~then th&amp;- discourse took
a higher tone, and the agricultural and political condition
and prospects of the whole country, and the great probability
of another speedy war with 'Great Britain,. were debated.
And Mr. Fairfax. wondered at the extent of information, the
strong grasp of mind, and the depth and justness of thought,
displayed by this recluse lady upon subjects apparently so
foreign to her daily experience.
They made quite a long morning visit, and before their
departure, Captain Clifton took an opportunity~..-..while Mr.
Fairfax was walking around the room and staring at soni~
9

old family pictures, among which hung a portrait by ~-,
of Oliver Cromwell, as Lord Protector of F1ngland-to draw
his mother aside, and say to her-~-
"Madam, I have a proposition to make to you, or a favor
to ask-as it may turn out."
"What is it, my son V' gravely inquired the lady.
"You heard Mr. Fairfax speak of the young mountain-girl
whom we met just before the storm, and who kindly con-
ducted us to her grandfather's cabin ~"
"Yes."
"It is of her that I would speak, and for her that I would
enlist your sympathy and protection-"
"Go on, I attend, my son."
"You have given me some credit for insight into character.
If my judgment is worthy of your consideration, this young
girl is deserving of your kindest offices."
"Does she deserve them 'P'
"Madam, she impressed me as being a child of high moral
and mental endowments, and the trying experience of one
night pro~ted the truth of that impression."
"Does she need my good offices 'P'
"Mother! with the finest intellectual capacities, she is
nearly destitute of all opportunities of intellectual culture.
That is bad-but not so deplorable as. what follows. Kate
Kavanagh-that is her name-is far removed from all of her
own sex. Her young brother, her only protector, is absent
from home from earliest dawn till. late at night. Her only
companionn is an old man, an habitual drunkard, subject to
frequent and furious fits of mania-a-potU. Her case, upon
my slowing, may not be so exigent. But if you had seen
her as I did, it would seem so. Her brother being best ac-
quainted with the circumstances, is the best judge in the
premises, and is very anxious upon his sister's account, and
wishes to get her a place at service.~~
* "But' if she is a girl of ~o excellent a nature as you have
supposed, will she leave her aged relative '~"
"Not willingly, certainly-but-I wish the opportunity
of improving her condition afforded her, indeed, I promised
'her brother Carl that it should be presented."
"I know Cad Kavanagh-lie worked for me during the

68


64             THE CURSE OFCLIPTON.                                    2!HZ OU~8E OP OLIPTO~.           65

last year. I formed a good opinion oZ him. If his sister is
equal to him she must be a meritorious girl."
"She is very superior to him, madam."
The lady was mistress of great promptitude and decision
of action. With her eyes fixed upon the ground she re-
flected for a few moments, then lifting them, said-.-
"Write to your friend Carl Kavanagh~~.-."'
"Not my friend, dear madam, an' it please you!" haughtily
interrupted her son.
A slight shade of disapproval or of displeasure clouded the
lady's brow for a moment, and she said-
"Write then to your dependent, Carl Kavanagh, and let
him know that I am willing to receive his sister into my own
service 'on trial-and that he may bring her hither as soon
as is convenient."
"Thank you, dearest madam, I will write to-day, and send a
messenger with the letter. I am really pleased and grateful
for this kindness," said Archer Clifton, pressing his lips to
the cheek she offered to his salute.
'The young men soon after took leave, being engaged to
dine that' day at home at White Cliffs.
"Clifton !" said Mr Fairfax, as they rode along, "excuse
me for telling you freely how highly I honor your mother.
Yes! you may stare! I-the irreverent-the rash said-
eccc~tse me for telling you how highly I honor your mother-..
for, by my faith, she is a lady whom to praise is presump-
tion! But, my d~ar Clifton, how is it that she resembles so
closely that .old portrait of Oliver Cromwell, which hangs,
besides, between two family portraits. It is not possible you
claim descent from him ?"
"My mother does, by the female line. I do not think I
have much of his nature. In his time I should have been a
royalist. My mother venerates his character very highly."
"By my soul! she is like him enough in feature."
"Yes, and in many points of character,*she is strikingly
like him."
In conversation such as this the friends reached White
Cliffs, and Mr. Fairfax retired to his 'chamber to dress for
dinner, and Captain Clifton entered the library for the pure
pose of writing a letter to Carl Kavanagh.

CHAPTER IV.
THE TIDE OF FATE.
There is a tide in the affairs of' man,
Which, taken at the flood, leads on to fortune.-SxrAKsPEA~E.
"There is a tide in the affairS of" woman,'
Which, taken at the flood, leads-" God knows where.-BYRoN~
CAPThV(N Clifton had written to Carl Kavanagh, informing
him of the situation he had procured for the sister of the
latter, at Hardbargain. And within' this letter he had in-
closed a longer one, to Kate, filled with good counsels and'
urgent reasons why she should yield to the wishes of her
brother, and accept the place offered to her. After hav-
ing dispatched these letters by a boy, who left White Cliffs
that afternoon, on horseback, he delivered himself up to the
delights of Miss Clifton's society, forgetting all about the
mountain-girl, until the next day, when, being seated in the
library, his messenger returned, entered his presence, and
handed him a packet. It was a letter from Carl Ka~ranag1i,
inclosing one from Kate. He read Carl's epistle first. It
began by expressing much gratitude to his benefactor, for
his kindness in having procured a situation for his sister, and
went on by expressing much sorrow that he could not prevail
upon Kate, either by entreaties or threats, to accept it, and
unbounded indignation at what he called the girl's wicked
stubbornness. The letter closed by reiterating the thanks
of the writer. Captain Olifton held the letter open in his
hand, and lifting his head, fell into deep thought. It was
strange how much this little matter depressed him. Account
for it, any philosopher that can. 'Some proud people have a
proclivity to patronage-Captain Clifton was very proud,
and perhaps he was piqued at being prevented playing the
patron. Perhaps it was really disappointed benevolence.
Only it is certain that Archer Clifton did not possess that
quality to an imrioderate degree-and having once done his
duty of charity, would be likely to content himself wi~th any

65

64

~J4


.1'

THE CURSE O~' 0L1~'TON~.

67

THE CURSE OF ~LTFTON
result. Perchance he felt a deeper interest in the rugged
little mountaineer than he would have acknowledged, even
to himself. Perhaps it was prescience-the shadow of com~
ing events. Be that as it may, Archer Clifton walked up
and down the floor in silent thought, occasionally 'broken by a
slight sigh. It was wonderful how much the knowledge that
he should not have this child at home in his mother's house,
vexed his soul.
At length he recollected Kate's own letter, yet unopened.
But of what avail to read it! It would certainly be the
counterpart of Carl's. He opened it. It was not, however.
In the first place, 'the paper was perfectly clean; and in the
second, the writing, spelling, and style, were rather better.
She acknowledged the goodness of Captain Clifton, in taking
thought of her humble wants-expressed regret that she
could. not 'avail herself of his kindness-could not leave her
grandfather, who needed her services, and subscribed her~clf
Captain Clifton's obliged and grateful servant. It was very
much like Carl's, after all. But here is a postscript. What
morp can she have to say, after what she has said, thought
Clifton, as he turned to it. It read thus-
"P. 5.-I hope Captain Clifton ~will pardon me, if he thinks
that I am doing wrong-but it has come into my head, that
as Captain Clifton is about to marry, and reside in future at
White Chffs.-and as Mrs. Clifton of Hardbargain, will then
be quite alone-and as she is not so young, or active, or
able to ride about her plantation, overseeing her field hands
as formerly-perhaps she will be thinking of getting a farm..
manager..-~..if so, will Captain Clifton kindly remember my
brother Carl, and speak a favorable word for him to the lady
of Hardbargain, who already knows and trusts him ~ If
Carl gets a situation as overseer, I can keep house for him,
and we can both take care of our grandfather. Indeed I am
afraid Captain Clifton will be justly angry with me for this
liberty."
"What a letter !" exclaimed Archer Clifton, as his face
alternately lighted up with satisfaction, or became clouded
with thought. "What a letter for a rustic girl of fourteen!
Yet characteristic of her and of her situation. Showing the
germs of reflection, forethought, courage and promptitude,

the gifts of nature, mingled with that frankness bordering
upon presumption, which belongs to total ignorance of the
world. To dare to speak familiarly of our domestic affairs
Rut yet how naively she deprecates my displeasure, at what
she feels may be received as presumption."
So deeply did Captain Clifton study Kate and her letter;
Kate's remarkable countenance, with its breadth of brow and
gentleness of eyes, haunted him.
He was a man of'prompt decision and action-so, having
once admitted the idea that his mother needed an overseer,
he exclaimed-
"Yes-my mother must be relieved from her arduous oc-
cupation~unbefitting a lady of her rank, and especially of
her age. Why could I not think of that before ~ Why
should I never have seen the necessity, until Catherine held
it up before me ~ Yes-my mother must have a manager 6u
her farm, and Carl Kavanagh shall be the man. I will pay
his salary myself." And he rung the bell, ordered his horse,
and in less than fifteen minutes was on his way to Hard..
bargain.
As he rode up to the house, he met a girl with a pail on~
her head, going to the spring, 'and inquired of her where her
mistress was to be found. He was told,," down in the wheat
field." So, turning his horse's head a little to the left of the
house, he rode down the slope of the hill, to a wide harvest
field, where he found Mrs. Clifton, seated on her mule, super-
intending the operations of some fifteen or twenty laborers,
who were employed in stacking wheat. He rode up to his
mother's side, alighted, and held out his hand, saying-
"How-do-you-do, to-day, madam ~ Busily engaged as
ever, I see, mother."
"How-do-you-do, Archer $ Yes, very busy."
While Captain Clifton was revolving in his mind the best
way of introducing the object of his visit, which he had
reason to believe would be distasteful to the energetic, inde-
pendent lady-she quite unconsciously anticipated his in-
tention, and relieved him fi'om his embarrassment, by .say-
ing-
"The heat is extremely oppressive, and I begin to find
this business too much for me, Archer. This continuing out
in the fields day after day, and all day long, throughout

(

1"'
A
'"4-


68              TILE CURSE OF CLIFTON.
this burning weather, begins to tell, even upon my constitu
tion."
Archer Clifton looked at his mother and noticed for the
first time a slight but certain change in her countenance,
invisible, perhaps, to an indifferent glance, but seeming to
the eye of affection., fearfully like the very earliest premoni-
tory symptoms of decay. That look pierced him to the
heart. The fainter sound of her voice, too, had vaguely
suggested failing strength-it fell upon his, ear like a pro~
phecy, a warning, a knell. He realized then, for the first
time, that his mother was mortal-was growing old-that
some day he should lose her. He felt then,, for the first time,
how much he-a man-had rested on this good mother-and
his heart was troubled within him.. And yet it was all caused
only by a transient weariness in the look of her *face, and a
faintness in the tone of' her voice. But more than all things
else on earth-more deeply-though less ardently-than his
own fair expectant bride-.--did Archer Clifton love his mo-
ther! It had even been said, some years before, by one who
knew him best, that Clifton could never love any woman
with the full force of his nature unless in qualities of mind
and heart she resembled his mother. But of course, Captain
Clifton had disproved that prophecy by adoring his cousin,
the haughty and beautiful Miss Clifton. This is a digression
-.to return-
As the new pang of fear for his mother's health sped
through his heart, Archer Clifton took her hand-he had a
singularly sweet and persuasive voice and manner, when
moved by his affections, and said-
"There is no necessity for it, dear mother. Surely, the
motive that prompted you when I was a lad, and when this
farm was our only prospect, has long ceased to operate."
"I know it, Archer. For some years past this personal
superintendency of the fields has been mo.re a matter of.
habit, than a matter of necessity~ If I could find a good
manager I might try one."
"What do you think of Carl Kavanagh in that capacity,
mother ~"
*" Carl! I never thought of him at all. He has never
xoanaged a plantation."
"But yet he has been a farm laborer many years-has a

- ~' 4
I'
4

THE OURSE OF CLIFTON.

69

practical knowledge of agriculture, and is, besides, a man of
more intelligence than is usually to be found in his class."
"Yes-he is," said the lady, thoughtfully.
"He is also ~a man of excellent moral character, and fault-
less habits-qualities not too frequently met with among
those of his grade."
"True-most true-but yet he is young, and has had no
experience in overseeing.
"And never will have, dear madam, unless some one gives
him the opportunity of making the trial. And as for his
youth, mother-why his youth is positively an advantage-
for with his practical knowledge, intelligence and honesty;
he will be free from the conceit and crotchets of an old
manager, and will the more readily fall into your system."
"There is something in that," said the lady. "And now,
Archer, you will remain and dine with me to-day. And re-
member, that when this week' is out, the next week belongs
to me. You must bring your friend with you when you
come. Where did you leave him ?"
"Playing battledore with Zuleime. But, dear mother,
about this Carl Kavanagh-I hope you will consider the plan
favorably, and' try him."
"I will think of it, Archer, because you propose it, if for
no other reason. And now the horn is blowing for the hands
to go to dinner, and my task for the. day is relieved. Let
us return to the house."
They turned their animals' heads, and rode up the ascent,
and entered the shady yard. Then the lady alighted from her
mule, gathered up her riding skirt, and leaning on the arm
of her son, entered the house. A plain but substantial din-
ner was soon served. Archer Clifton enjoyed his mother's
plain meals more than the most luxurious dinners-not but
that he had a taste for luxury..-what man has not ?-but that
there was a home comfort about his mother's table, that gave
him appetite and spirit. And then, after dinner, 'he could
go and stretch himself upon the best lounge in that large,
shady, breezy parlor, ~ith a book, and read or doze until she
had attended to the putting away of 'her 'things, and had
locked up her pantries. Then she would come and 'sit in the
rocking~chair by his side, while he could stretch himself at
ease, in any ungainly attitude he pleased, and feel what a
VOL. I.-6

4'


Al
:1
3';
I
/

TIlE CURSE OF' CLIFTON.           'TI

refreshing. thing it ~wa~ to throw off his dignity in the' pre-
sence of~ the onjy one with whom he could do so~.-his own
familiar mother. Not but that he honored-nay, revered her
~~~tbut ~that he enjoyed only in her house, that deep, full
sense of' home freedom, which not only 'her son-but to a
certain degree all others felt, who possessed the privilege of
the lady's: friendship.
This afternoon, then, he was lying at his ease on the cool
lounge between the two front windows, which were drawing
strOng drafts of air, and flapping the festooned curtains lazily.
He had thrown himself out at full length upon the lounge,
* in the most delightfully degagi~ attitude, albeit it was some-
what angular and awkward-.his head being~ throw~i: back
over the end of the lounge,, his hands clasped ahoye his fore-
head, and his elbows very prominent, one foot, minus a slip-
per, hoisted upon the window..sill; and the other slippered
foot 'dangling on the carpet. 'But the picturesque beauty of
his dark,~ handsome face, atoned for all the rest. His mother
sat in an easy-chair near him, with her feet upon a~footstool,
and a workstand by h~r side. She was engaged in stitching
wristbande-~--for that vigorous woman never required lounge
in the day"time..-.but though she 'never took one, yet she
never blamed the indulgence of that habit in others for which
she herself felt no inclination. She was .the rno~t liberal and
benevolent of alihuman beings, in every act of her daily life.
She was happy in seeing others comfortable around her. She
was ever pleased to see them enjoying those relaxations which
her own strong nature did, not need. Indeed, courage with-
out asperity, fortitude without indurancy, strength without
hardness, self..denial without sternness, power without arro-
gaiice, forn~ed: the peculiar excellence of her character. No
wonder that her son revered her. No wonder it had been
said of 'him% that he never could love a woman with all the
power of his nature, 'unless:in mental and moral endowments I
she resembled hi~ mother. As they talked together this
afternoon, the hours 'slipped away till late in ,the evening,
before the image of the, beautiful Carolyn bad power to draw
him from the t&amp;te ~ t6le.. During the afternoon lie had pre-
vailed with his mother to receive Carl Kavanagh as her over"
seer-and to have the comfortable log-cabin which had been

occupied by the first proprietor of the soil, prepared for the
reception of the family.
When Archer Clifton at length arose to' take his leave,
he pressed his mother to his heart with so much fondness
and pOwer, that the quiet, calm lady laughed, a little, low;
jolly laugh, and jested about Carolyn's jealousy-even of his
mother.
Ca
self ptain Clifton returned to White Cliffs, and gave him-
up for the rest of the evening, to the charms of Carolyn's
conversation.
K The next day was one of festivity. Mrs. Cilfton, of Hard-
bargain, came over to dine at 'White Cliffs, and to meet a
large party of the neighboring gentry. Th~ day after that
the whole party dined and spent the evening at Hardbargain
-and this was 'the commencement of a series of neighbor-
hood entertainments in honor of the approaching marriage,
which were kept up for several weeks. The wedding was
to come off in the course of a month-the' present delay being
owing to this circumstance: old Mr. Clifton had sent' to
England,. by the good ship Rockbridge, Captain Cater, an
extensive order, including a splendid outfit for the bride;
and ~they were now awaiting to hear of the the arrival of' 'the
Rockbridge at Norfolk. In all the excitement of 'social
enjoyment, Captain Clifton had found time to ride to the
mountain hut, and arrange with Carl Kavanag~ to come and
take the situation of overseer at Hardbargain.' He agreed
to pay the latter a liberal salary, and to provide a comfortable
house for his family. One thing surprised and annoyed
him. Kate, who. had written so freely, frankly, alinoist pre-
sumptuously to him-received him with: the old cold shyness
and reserve-not even expressing the least gratitude for the
kindiless he had shown in getting the situation for her brother,
or the trouble he had condescended to take, in 'coming. per-
sonally to inform them ~f it. 'He agreed With Carl, th~t the
latter, with his grandfather arid sister, should remove to
Hardbargaiu in the course of the week-and on his~ own part
he promised to have the log-heuse prepared ' for their re-
ception.' He shook hands 'with the old~ man ~and 'CarL on
parting, but when he offered' the same civility to Kate, she

7O~             T~IE ~7RSE OF CLIFTON.

(

7&amp;


C

THE CURSE OF CLIFTON.

73

~VHE CURSE OF CLIFTON.
turned pale and trembled, and when he took her hand he
found it cold.
"I do not think you are well, my dear girl-your moun-
tai~ air does not engender chills, does it ?" he asked, pressing
the cold fingers.
She raised her eyes one brief instant to his, and dropped
them quickly again, while her pale cheek and brow became
suffused with crimson, and her hand that he held in his own
throbbed like a heart.
"When we get you to the plantation you will be better,
my dear girl," said Clifton, kindly, shaking her hand and
letting it go.
Captain Clifton rode away full of thought-speculating
more upon Catherine's reserve than became a gentleman of
his station and importance. What was it to him that a rustic
girl was too shy to express in person, her thanks for a favor
received, even though she had "screwed her courage to the
sticking place" to write to him and solicit it? Many people,
more conversant with the world than Catherine, can write
that which they-never can bring their lips to say. Besides
it was uo matter-what was that lowly maiden to him, the
heir of Clifton, and the prospective husband of the highest
and haughtiest lady in the land? Yes-what to him except
an object of his high patronage could be that girl of-i--not
only "humble parentage," but indubitably low birth? lie
rode on dissatisfied, he knew not wherefore, with her and
himself.
As for Catherine, she stood-lost-where he had left her
-lost to the consciousness of her grandfather's and of Carl's
presence-with her eyes fixed upon the ground, blaming her-
self for her awkwardness and seeming ix~gratitude; wonder-
ing if he blamed her too; wondering why it was that when
she saw him enter she grew cold and trembled so; and when
be spoke to her in' that gentle tone, and looked at her with
that gentle gaze-her whole nature shrank away in fear and
trepidation-and though she would have given the world foi
the ability to express her gratitude and regard, all power of
uttering a grateful word or of lifting a grateful glance to his
face, deserted, and left her pale and trembling before the
man whom she had no cause to fear, and every reason to
trust. CatherinQ stood with her mind- deep in this problem,

until the harsh voice of Carl ~tartlod her, saying, in rasping
tones-
"Well! are you going to stand there burrowing your
eyes in the ground all day? A pretty way you have behaved!
Please goodness, you've got no more manners than a dumb
brute! I take my oath I am ashamed of you! Now there
was Captain Clifton, a gentleman of so high rank, conde-
scending to come here and tell us himself of the 'place he
had got for us, even after your unmannerly refusal of that
first place-and here were you with not one word of thanks
tI give-no! please Heaven', not' so much as one civil look!
I wonder what he'll think of you ?"
"What, indeed ?" repeated Catherine, very meekly.
But Carl scarcely recognized her voice. It was no longer
the childish treble-it was the deep, full, melodious voice of
rich womanhood.
"Why, the kindest thought he can have of you, 'will be to
think you are a fool-that is all."
"Carl, I was in fear of him."
";In fear of him! In fear of Archer Clifton! A man
whom all the country knows to be of the highest honor-
and one to whom even I, cautious as I am, could trust you
with, to go from one end of' the world to the other !"
"I know that, Carl-I know he is a gentleman of honor,
but-but-I tremble before him, and have not courage to
lift my eyes-"'
"But that is so confoundedly ridiculous, now! why are
you afraid of shim ?"
Kate shook her head and waved her hand in that quick,
short manner which was peculiar to her, and turned away-
repeating in her own heart the question-"Yes, why, why,
WHY ?"
Whether the maiden found an answer to her question or
not, remained a secret to Carl; this was the first and last
conversation they ever held on the subject; and whatever
phenomena the opening heart of the maiden revealed to her-
self, were carefully shrouded away from the eyes of all.
How beautiful was Car&amp;lyn Clifton! So fair, so purely,
so divinely fair, so radiant, so refined, so stately! How fit
6*

'V
j~
'4


I.

a consort for the 'proud Archer Clifton! How hi~ heart
swelled with admiration and pride as he gazed upon her
queenly fom-and how it glowed to think that in a very
few days that fair and stately lady, who never deigned to own
a passion, whose love he only guessed by her proud exaction
of exclusive service, who scarcely condescended to extend her
snowy hand to his salute-would be his own, his own, his wife,
his property, his other self-whose form he might press to
his bosom in the fullest freedom of possession! And as he
sat by her side and held her hand, and gazed upon her inac~
cessible, delightful beauty; oh! how slowly, slowly, to his
impatient, burning, throbbing heart-how slowly, dragged
the days and hours.
Well-oh very well would it have been for Archer Clifton,
could he have rent his gaze from his magnetic idol a moment,
and caught a certain pair of evil eyes upon JAm. Their
baleful glare might have shed upon his path some light to see
the pitfalls 'in his was.

74             THE CURSE OF CLIFTON.                                 THJ~ CUUSI~ OF CLIFTON.          76

4'14
44
$4; .4

CHAPTER V.
There is a divinity that shapes our ends,
iLough hew them as we wilI.--SUAKsPEARE.
CARL KAVANAGH and his sister were settled in the log.
cabin on the farm of Hardbargain. Carl, as an old acquaint.
ance of the mistress, and a late laborer on the plantation, fell
readily into his new business of overseeing it. Catherine
began to busy herself in the management of her new and
very comfortable home. Their cabin contained a sitting-
room, kitchen, and two chambers. Mrs. Clifton had gratified
her own kindly and benevolent disposition by adding several
plain articles of furniture to the small stock possessed by the
poor family. She had, besides, given Catherine a set of half-
worn, white dimity curtains, and a pair of coarse, home-made,
white counterpanes. These gave an air of neatness, ap-
proaching-I had almost said refinement to. the sitting-room,
and two little bed-rooms. Mrs. Clifton, of Hardbargain,
was not addicted to taking sudden likings-indeed, though a
lady of perfect frankness, benevolence and liberality of judg-
ment, she was cool and prudent-yet, notwithstanding this,
her kindest affections were at once attracted towards Kate.
It is true she had been prepared to think well of the child
from an intimate knowledge of her brother Carl's honesty
and intelligence, but at the first sight of Catherine, the noble
countenance of the mountain-girl riveted her esteem. There
are some faces which we know at a glance cannot belong to
other than a fine, high-toned character. And such a coun-
tenance was that of Catherine. And it won upon the lady
every day, as no merely beautiful face could ever have done.
For hers was a brow-
"Where every god did seem to set his seal to give the world assurance
of-"
a peerless woman. Often Mrs. Clifton invited Catherine to
bring her work and sit with her through the afternoon, und

1,
I

74

75


,1
&amp;
K
'3
11
'If
'C C
I'
*1
'~ I',
5
i 'I'~
~
I
U
F

TIlE CURSE OF CLIFTON.

seldom did she let the girl return without placing in her hand
some book just suitable to her very age, and the stage of
progress of her mind. And oh! did not the heart of the
maiden kindle and glow with love and admiration for the
noble lady, who, without one particle of pride, or the least
pretension to condescension-condescended so much. And so
Catherine grew to understand and appreciate Mrs. Clifton,
and to k~ok upon her with a feeling amounting almost to
worship. How happy were those afternoons spent with her
in the cool and breezy parlor.' How deeply grateful was
Rate for all her benefits-how anxious to prove her grati-
tude-~.to do something for her benefactress. But Kate was
very ~shy, and her love only spoke in the stealthy look of af-
fection fixed upon the lady, and withdrawn with a deeply
blushing cheek if discovered. But by these tokens sure did
Mrs. Clifton know the sweetness' and the tenderness, the
modesty and the sincerity of the maiden's hidden heart. And
all this time was Catherine wishing for the ability to tell her
friend how much she thanked and loved her. One afternoon
she mustered up the courage to tell the lady that she should
like to read to her any time that it would be agreeable; also,
that she had some skill in doing up laces and such things,
and that she should be happy if she could assist Mrs. Clif-
ton in such matters. Mrs. Clifton' placed her hand atEec~.
tionately on Catherine's head, and declined all her offers of
service except that which related to the reading-which she
accepted-hoping thereby to improve her prot6g6 in many
ways--.to direct her choice of books, to correct her elocution,
and to awaken her understanding of what she read by quest.
tions' and comments. So. they began a course of historical
reading with Rollin's Ancient 'History. And that which
this excellent lady commenced as a duty of kindness soon
became a matter of daily recreation. It was indeed a rare
intellectual pleasure to arouse, cultivate and hold communion
with a fresh, vigorous, original enthusiastic mind like that
of Catherine. And those afternoons were almost as happy
for the lady as for her prot~g~-happier for Catherine they
could not have been. Once; the shy girl was entirely car-
ried out of herself and her reverie by the following circum-
~stance: The lady had inadvertently let fall that she was a
descendant of Oliver Cromwell, when Kate, hurried beyond

THE CURSE OF CLIFTON.

77

her consciousness, clasped her hand and gazed fervently up
in her face, exclaiming-.
"Descended 'from Oliver Cromwell! Descended from
Oliver Cromwell, that friend of man? that friend of freedom?
Oh! it is no wonder, lady, that you are so noble! so supe-
rior to all the world !"'
"My Catherine," said the lady, calmly withdrawing her
hand. "You know too little-far too little of the world, to
judge how I stand in comparison to others. And what know
you of Oliver Cromwell? Our reading has scarcely reached
the invasion of Britain by the Romans."
"Oh, lady! lady! lady !" said Kate, warmly, being not
yet recovered from her trance-" lady-Carl and I had not
many books, so we read what we had over and over again!
And one of the books we~read the most was the life of Oliver
Cromwell !"
"You are generally so shy, Catherine, that it is a blind
work in me to direct your studies, not knowing what you
have read and what you have not."
Yes-very delightful to both were these seasons, and very
strong was the affection beginning to cement between the
lady and the maiden. There was only one tbing that dis-
turbed Catherine in the perfect enjoyment of these after-
noons. When Archer Clifton would surprise them by
suddenly entering the room, and throwing himself into
an arm-chair or upon a' sofa, 'her heart would stand still,
and her whole frame tremble with an agitation as impossible
to comprehend as to conquer. And yet much as his
arrival disturbed her, his departure failed to make her
happy.' On the contrary, it left a strange sadness and yearn-
ing she could not shake off. But then these things were of
rare occurrence. Captain Clifton very seldom found time to
visit his mother-he was contented to know that she had a
companion ;-and as for Kate, he never thought of her at
all-she was pro~4ded for and forgotten. Body, soul, and
spirit were taken up-absorbed in the contemplation of his
promised bride, and in the anticipation of her possession.
Catherine knew he was soon to be married, but what of that?
She was a child, with no knowledge at her tender. years to
understand her own heart, and no skill to define its first de-
velopuients.

76

I

e.


V
~
~~1 7
~
~, '4
~ 4
'p
~

TIlE CTTRSE OF CLIFTON.

At White Cliffs "all went merry as a marriage bell."
The "Rockbridge" was at length telegraphed at Norfolk,
A letter with an invoice was received by Mr. Clifton, who
immediately dispatched a special messenger to receive his
valuable portion of the cargo. The wedding-day was fixed
for that day week, and great preparations were on foot.
The gentry of the neighboring counties were invited. The
mansion-house was "swept and garnished" from garret to
cellar. Frank and Zuleime were daily rehearsing their parts
as bridesmaid and groomsman, which Frank declared to be
only an apprenticeship to the business of enacting bride and
groom. Some 'city guests from Richmond had arrived by
particular invitation, four or five days before the expected
wedding. Last of all came the wagon with the boxes from
Norfolk. They were opened in the hall-such treasure of
splendid attire, and such sets of jewelry! And, above all,
such a trousseau for the bride-conspicuous in which was the
bridal dress and veil-the bridal dress and train of richest
white brocade heavily embroidered with silver, after th~ gor-
geous fashion of that time-the bridal veil of finest lace-
the orange flower wreath of pearls and emeralds-the pearl
embroidered gloves and slippers-the pearl and silver mounted
fan, and all complete in correspondence. And richer still
was a ball-dress of blue silver-embroidered brocade, with its
elegant coiffure of ostrich feathers, the sight of which Zuleime
declared was enough to precipitate any girl into matrimony.
Every one was too happy, too busy and too self-important
to notice the deathly hue of Georgia's cheek, far less to~ de-
tect the fitful glare of the well-guarded eye. Every one but
her husband, who, leaving his daughters and their maids to
unpack the boxes, followed her into her own chamber, saying,
as he fondly laid his hand upon her shoulder-
"My darling doesn't seem to be merry."
She shrank-shuddered from his touch, exclaiming, almost
shrilly.-
"Leave me
"Leave, you, my dear !-~--my child 1-why, leave you?" he
asked, passing his hand gently around her shoulders.
"Leave me! leaye me !" she cried, sharply, casting off
the arm and springing Vack-her cheek blanched, her teeth
snapping, her eyes sparkling fire, more like a terrified wolf

TIlE CURSE OF CLIFTON.

79

than a woman, "have I not told you never, never to come
n~r me in my dark hour ?"
"But why should my cherished pet have dark hours ?" he
persisted, approaching her.
"Keep off! keep off! old man, you know not what you
do!"
"Yes, I'm old-I know I'm old-I wish I wasn't, for I
love you, my darling. Yes, I love you more tenderly and
less selfishly than if I was younger. I love you entirely-
altogether- your little dark face-your little fiery ways-..
your little outbursts of temper that no one sees but me, who
look upon it with indulgent eyes. Would a young man love
you so tenderly, Georgia ?"
"IDriveller! you make me loathe you! 'My little fiery
ways.' 'My little outbursts of temper,' forsooth! How
little do you understand me! You sting my soul to frenzy
with your dotage, and then twaddle about liking my 'little
outbursts of temper,' forsooth."
"Dotage! Yes! I really do suppose you consider it
dotage!"
"Yes! drivelling! idiotic! imbecile dotage 1"
"Yes! I do suppose you think it is! I am too old for you,
Georgia-I know it, alas! too well, now that it is too late-
and yet you did not raise the least objection to becoming my
wife, Georgia."
"Ha! ha! ha! ha! ha! ha! ha! Objection! Iwas1but
fifteen years of age when you bribed me to your arms with a
set of jewels, and a gold mounted work-box! I was a child,
delighted with glittering toys! and fond, yes very fond of
the grandfatherly old man that poured them into my lap!
Did that child-fondness deceive you ?"
"It did, it did! You were very fond of me when you
were a child! Would to God I could have spell-bound you
to that age, so you never could have grown older! Oh! I
could find it in heart to shame my manhood, to shame my
gray hairs and weep! I should not have married you, Geor-
gia, child! I should not have sacrificed you to my selfish
bye-yet, no! It was not selfish love! I wished your
greatest good. I wished to surround you for life with all the
means and appliances of -happiness. I wished to lavish
wealth upon you-ay, wealth of gold, and wealth of affec-

78

i


:4;
~
I)
t '~
V
4'
~ 1:

THE CURSE OF CLIFTON.

81

80              THE CURSE OF CLIFTON.
tion, too: I wished to give you a sumptuous home, splendid
apparel, costly jewels, carriages, servants-alL those things
which women value so much, and scheme, and plot, and en-
deavor for so perseveringly! I wished to give them all to
my darling, before she should have time to feel the need of
them !"
"Ha! ha! ha! ha! ha!" bitterlylaughed the girl. "Oh!
do you know what Women value more than gold and jewels,
and dress, and carriages, and horses, and servants ?-I'll tell
you-the ungalled, unfettered heart's freedom !"
"I know it! Oh! I know it! My love has destroyed
your happiness. Oh, Georgia! did you never see a beautiful
bird, and long to have it for your own, only to caress and
pamper and pet it! Oh, Georgia! my child, my pet, my
bird! that was the reason I wanted you! I wanted to cherish,
and fondle, and make you happy !"
"~1h4! And did you never see such a bird~as you spoke
of, in spite of all the petting, and pampering, and fondlings,
beat out its weary life against its prison bars and die !"
"Don't die, Georgia! Don't die! Hope! Alas! I
wished only to make you happy-I have failed! I have
made you miserable !"
"'.Miserab!e,' ruined! despairing! desperate!" she cried,
wildly wringing her hands.
"Nay, not despairing, Georgia! I am an old man, as you
justly said-quite an old man. I have not very long to live,
and when I die, Georgia, you will still be a very young wo-
man. Rethink you, you are scarce seventeen-in ten years
more you will be but twenty-seven, and is it even likely that I
shall lWe so long as that! No! And after my heart is
cold, and my head is laid low, Georgia trill be a beautiful
young widow-ay, and with a rich jointure, too! I shall
take care of that !"
"Ha! ha! ha! ha! ha! pathetic! I tell you, that if you
were to die to-morrow, my life is not the less ruined-~de-
spairing !" bitterly exclaimed the young woman.
"Nay, but that cannot be, Georgia. Ruined!. Despair-
ing! What! at seventeen years of age! Nonsense, my
love! .A'othing but crime can make the yo~ithful despair!
Nonsense, my child! You are hysterical !" he said, moving
towards her with outstretched arms.

"Dotard! driveller !" she cried, turning fiercely upon
him, with eyes blazing with scorn and malignity. "Imbecik!
Will you leave me to myself !"
The old gentleman turned away, walked several times.
slowly up and down the floor, and finally saying-
"Yes, I know I am a dotard! I know it, and I grow
ashamed of dotage-" clapped his hat upon his head and
walked out.
Bitterly did the old man rue his folly, yet, alas! he knew
but half the cause of that ingrate and wretched woman's
fierce outbreaks of temper.
She followed his retreating form, with a glaring of mingled
rage and fear, gnawing her whit~ lips, while she muttered, in
a low, fierce tone-
"I could tear my heart out! I could bite my tongue off,
for thus betraying me! Shall I ever have power to chain
and guide the tiger in me! But he with his doting, and they
with their dalliance, goad me to extremity? But," she ex-
claimed, clenching her fist, setting her teeth, and glaring,
while all her countenance darkened with rage and anguish-
"But, before they shall MARRY under my very eyes, and live
here, maddening my soul and senses, day and night, by the
view of their love and joy, I will pull down ruin on the heads
of all! Yes, although myself should be the first to fall !"
She paused in silent thought some time, then rising, said,
"Down, tiger heart! Dourn! crouch! Be smooth, brow!
Be smiling, lip! Be 1~ender, eyes! Be soft, voice! And
now to go and pacify the old inan,%efore his vexation betrays
me to the others. Ah! it is well they have never witnessed
my excitement! Come! in time I shall, learn to curb wild
impulses, and only spring upon my prey when time and place
is fit!"
Soft, smooth, fascinating, seductive, she glided from her
chamber out into the upper piazza, where the old man's slow
and heavy footfall was heard-she glided after him, an&amp;with
an air of sweet, familiar, childish freedom, she raised his arm,
and putting . her beautiful head under it, drew his hand
around her neck and over her bosom, and looking up plead-'
ingly, simply, into his benevolent face, muEmured, merely-
"I am so sorry, Mr. Clifton !"
VOL. I.-7


82             TIJE CURSE OF CLIFTON.

"Never mind! never mind, my dear !" said the old gen-
tleman, stoopir~g and kissing her, brow.
"Oh, but II am! so sorry !"
"Yow, child! Do you think I mind your little petu-
lance?"'
"Oh! you are good, you are good. Indeed, I'm quite
unworthy of you !" she whispered softly, pressing her head
against his bosom, and clinging close.
"You, darling !" cried the old man, stroking her curls in
delight.
"I am such an irritable, petulant child! I am sure no one
would have patience with me but you-that is the reason J
love you so !"
"You do love me then ?" gazing fondly in her witching
face.
"Oh, dearly! dearly! look in my eyes and see if I
don't!"
"Yes! I know you do, my pet! And I love you
entirely !"
"Ali! how can you then! I have so many faults !"
"I love your little faults, and all! Come! Brighten
up! Never mind! I love to see my darling bright and
cheerful."
"Ah! how can I, when I remember my fit of ill
temper!"
"Say no more about it, my love! That's the reason why
I love you! For those very little gusts of temper! They are
followed by such a sweet ik~-action! and then my child is so
frank, so ingenuous in her little penitence !"
"Ah.! But then I. am such a spoiled child! Ahd
always was! Father spoiled me. And now you spoil me
worse than ever
"My sweet! you can't be spoiled! you are so ingenuous!
But now tell me, what vexed my little girl this evening?
Come, let me hear?" asked the old man, caressing the
syren.
"Well! now it was this! I thought you loved Carolyn
and Zuleime better than me!" replied the artful woman,
gazing half-repro~chfnlly, half-pleadingly ~up into hi~ smiling
face.
"Love Carolyn and Zuleime better than you! Why you

THE CURSE OF CLIFTON.

jealous little witch !" exclaimed the old man in rapture.
"Love them more than you! Why, I have to pray Hea-
ven's pardon daily, for not loving them a hundredth part a~
much !-kiss me
Georgia servedd her loathing heart to give the demanded
kiss, and then went and joined the party in the parlor, as
beautiful, smooth,~ seductive, dangerous as ever; while the
old man walked up and down the piazza, smiling to himself
ar~d saying-
"She is a child-nothing but a child !-a sweet, willful,
witching child!"
Alas! little rocking of the household treachery, the hou~c-
hold wreck that "child" was preparing!
/

I

82


84              THE cunsi~ OF CLIFTON.

CHAPTER VI.
THE RUPTURED TIE.
Alas! they had been friends in youth,
But whispering tongues can poison truth;
And constancy lives in realms above,
And life is thorny, and youth is vain,
And to be wroth with one we love
Doth work like madness on the brain.
WHAT ruin a single spark of fire may ~pread, if carelessly
or designedly dropped amid combustible or inflammable
material.
What desolation a single word may cause, if thoughtlessly
or intentionally- let fall into a passionate, impetuous heart.
The three scenes I am about to describe, took place very
nearly as they are related.
But first a few words of explanation.
I feel- that I have~scarcely done justice to the character
of Carolyn Clifton, in presenting her only by that cold and
frosty crust of pride, which was but the superficial covering
of a high-spirited, honorable nature. Her manners were cold
and haughty-almost scornful and arrogant-it is but too
true. And most people, her family included, supposed her
to be destitute of sensibility. Perhaps she was lacking in
warmth of affection for her immediate domestic circle. Jier
whole heart, with all its deep, profound, untold, unguessed
devotion~ was given to Archer Clifton. And while secretly
bestowing upon him her entire, un~ivided love-she openly
exacted a full, unshared return-al exclusive worship.
In truth, in her proud, secret heart, she was a little jealous
of Clifton's affection for his mother! She did not love her
father so devotedly! -why should Clifton -worship his mo-
~5her so'? To1 this jealousy she had never given breath, of
course-indeed, to her own passionate love, she had never
yet given word-preferring, in her high toned, maiden pride,

84

r

THE CURSE OF CLIFTON.             85
to leave it to 1~e inferred. She had never even looked her
jealousy, yet Mrs. Clifton, with the fine instinct of a woman
and a mother, guessed it, and in her presence, skillfully
eluded all demonstrations of affection from her son. And so
well was the proud, exacting spirit of Miss Clifton known in
her own family, that even the sprightly and mischievous out-
law, Zuleime, dared take no childish liberty with her sister's
betrothed. Thus it happened that Frank Fairfax's unlucky
jest had deeply offended the arrogant lady~ the more espe-
ciall as in that day, and in that neighborhood, the term
"mountain-girl," was too often the mildest name for an evil
woman.-ThiS fact, of course, Frank was not acquainted
with. And, therefore it was, that he could not understand
Carl Kavanagh's excessive anxiety to send his young sister
off the mountain ; and could not in the least comprehend the
intense indignation of Miss Clifton, and the difficulty Archer
Clifton had in restoring her good humor. Even now, Caro-
lyn Clifton had not forgotten the circumstance. And truth
to tell, she was not well pleased at the continued interest
displayed by Captain Clifton for his prot~g~, in bringing her
and her family upon his mother's plantation. But she was
too proud again to allude to the subject. Carolyn Clifton
had never known a care or a contradiction in her life. Her
heart was a sound, strong, high, proud thing, and therefore,
very like to break itself without fear, full tilt against the first
impedimitnt that opposed it. She was, besides, like all women
of her fair complexion and fine tempered nerves-" a dis-
cerner of spirits." And this quick, delicate, and sure per-
ception never failed her, except when she was agitated and
blinded by inward passion. Thus, perhaps, quite uncon-
sciously, she read the heart of h~ betrothed-and knew it
better than he did himself-aLnd thus, perhaps, involuntarily,
she afterwards acted on that knowledge.
At all events, there was quite enough combustible material
on hand for a single spark to ignite it and spread a confla-
gration.
And the spark-and many sparks were not wanting. A
thoughtless jest of Frank's-a slight word dropped by
G-eorgia at exactly the right, or rather the wrong time and
place-and the whole neighborhood of R-~ County
were agog with gossip. And Captain Clifton and his pro-
Vt.


86             ~HE CURSE OF CLIFTON.                                     TUE CURSE OF CLIFTON.            87

t6g6, were the subjects. So.me, right in the face of his well.
known engagement to Miss Clifton, did not hesitate to say
that she, his prot6g~, was a beautiful girl, whom he intended
to educate. and marry, and that his repuidican mother was
highly in favor of the plan. Others told how tastefully the
overseer's house had been furnished and adorned, and-.
without the slightest foundation in truth-how many hours a
day Captain Clifton now spent with his interesting pupil.
The suspicious and malignant circulated a still darker talc,
and wondered how long it would last, and how it would all
end. And then they denounced Captain Clifton, blamed his
mother, and pitied Mis~ Clifton! And all this time, while
the whole county was ringing with various and contradictory
reports, the persons most concerned ki~w nothing about it.
Until the day before the wedding, it was suddenly
brought to the knowledge of' both partied, in the following
manner
The company assembled at Clifton, consisting of old Mr.
Clifton's brother-in-law and sister, Judge and Mrs. Cabell,
of Richmond, with their three daughters and son, Frank
Fairfax, Zuleime, and Captain Clifton, had gone over to dine
by previous engagement with Mrs. Clifton,'of Hardbargain.
Carolyn Clifton. had been compelled, by a slight headache,
to remain at home. And Georgia had chosen to stay to keep
her company. The two ladies sat in the dressing-room of
Miss Clifton. Carolyn was silent. and abstracted, yet her
countenance betrayed more of inward joy than she suspected.
A great contrast was her fair, placid face, to that of Georgia,
dark, and traversed by spasms of pain-like clouds hurling
past a, stormy sky. But if Carolyn lifted her fair lashes a
moment, instantly that dark face cleared, crc its expression
could be detected. At length she ventured, in a sweet tone,
tosay- /
Carolyn, my. dear, to morrow is yourwedding day. And
-but-there is something which you ought to know before-
hand, and which for weeks past I have been trying to gain
courage to tell you."
"Well, madam ~" asked Miss Clifton, slowly lifting .her
snowy lids.
"I should-that is, I might expose myself to the resent-
ment of all your family by telling you."

"Then you had best not tell .me, madam."
"And yet you ought to be informed, and must. I
should never forgive a friend for keeping such a secret from
me."
A vague fear and tremor seized upon Carolyn Clifton, and
kept her silent. The dark lady went on-.
"I think the honor, the happiness, even the tranquillity
of your married life, depends upon your previous knowledge
of this circumstance."
"Madam-the honor, happiness, and tranquillity of my
married life pass into the keeping of my husband, Captain
Clifton, and in him I have the utmost confidence," remarked
Carolyn, coldly and proudly, though, alas !-not truly.
"Heaven forbid that I should unnecessarily mar that con-
fidence! But, my love, you will be sure to hear it, when
too late, and from less friendly lips than mine!"
"Will it please you, then, madam, to speak out frankly
and honestly, and let us know what it is," said Carolyn,
scornfully, at the same time that her heart was rising with
emotion.
"Is it possible you do not guess V'
"I do not take the trouble to do so, Mrs. Clifton."
"Au! you have always treated me with scorn and hauteur,
Miss Clifton. Yet that,. alas! does not relieve me of the
painful duty. of putting you on your guard. In a word, then,
do you understand the nature of the relations subsisting
between Captain Clifton and the sister of his mother's over-
seer~"
The brow of Carolyn Clifton flushed crimson-but she
answered, coldly-
"Madam, I believe ti~at young person has been the object
of Captain Clifton's benevolence."
"Ah! I believe so too! His benevolence is certainly in-
disputable, and his honor should be above suspicion !" ex-
claimed Georgia, fervently.
"Madam-it is !" coldly replied Miss Clifton.
"Yes-and yet, Carolyn, my love, a poor and beautiful
young maiden cannot continue to be the recipient of a hand-
some young ofiiG~er's beneficence with credit to herself, honor
to him, or peace or safety to his wife !"

86

"4.'

87

I]
4
4.
II)
54
5.
I
,j'~ v~.
'444


88             -~E CURSE OF CLIFTON.                                      TIlE CITRSE OF CLIFTON.          89

+7

~(Jg she so very beautiful ?" was the question surprised
from the haughty girl.
"Passing beautiful, I think, Carolyn, and this it is that
makes the country gentlemen jest so about the matter. They
give a far different motive than benevolence ~to the kindness
of Captain Clifton to his lovely charge. I know that they
do him gross injustice! But this thing should not go on. It
is a dangerous relation-dangerous to Archer's own fidelity,
dangerous to your peace, and most dangerous of all, to the
poor girl's reputation. I advise you to speak to Archer. I
would do so myself, but it is too delicate a matter for me to
speak to a young gentleman ab~ut. Now in these palmy
days of courtship, he may listen to you as he never would~
perhaps, afterwards, and you will be able to prevail with him
to send this dangerous young beauty, his prot6gii, away.
Yes! and you may tell Archer that I advise this; for the
good of all parties. Tell him that the whole neighborhood
is ringing with gossip that may become slander. Tell him
that I say the parties most concerned in this rumor, or in
any rumor, will be ever the last to hear it. Tell him that I
his friend, Georgia, venture to do him this service, informing
him through you. tet there be no concealments. Let all
be open candor. I did feel afraid, when I began to tell you
this-but now it is out, I feel relieved-I~ have more
courage."
"Madam !" said Carolyn, more haughtily than before-...
"Captain Clifton is quite capable of directing his own con-.
duct! And if he were not, I should never rem~ign to him the
future control of mine! And, furthermore, madam !" she
added, sarcastically, "I too highly honor the man about to
become my husband-I have too much self-respect and deli-
cacy, to inquire into the nature of Captain Clifton's indi-~
vidual and private amusements, whether they relate to
hounds, horses, or beggar girls! I leave such investigations
to the daughter of the sign-painter!" and with an air
of the greatest possible scorn and arrogance she arose, and
left the room. Yet under that proud, disdainful bearing, a
thousand scorpions, of doubt and jealousy, maddened hit
soul. She went at once into her own room, and having
locked the door, that no rash intruder should look upon her
weakness, gave herself up to. the anguish of her emotions--.

now pacing up and down the floor, wringing her hands in
distraction-noW throwing herself, face downward, upon the
bed, in despair. And yet she had no confidence in Mrs.
Clifton's honesty of purpose either
En the -meantime, the party assembled~ at Hardbargain
were enjoying themselves and the hospitalities of their hostess,
to the fullest extent.
The late dinner was over; the ladies were lounging about
in arm-chairs, or on sofas, in the breezy parlor-dozing,
reading, or chatting in low tones, all serenely enjoying that
pleasant feeling of home fr~medom and repose, into which Mrs.
Clifton ever charmed her guest.
The gentlemen had left their wine, and in parties of two
and three were strolling about the shady yard, or out
through the fields and orchards, to cool their heads, previous
to joining the ladies at the tea-table.
Archer Clifton, with his cousin, Major Charles Cabell, and
Frank Fairfax, took the wooded path leading down the South
side of the ridge to a fine spring in the hollow. They came
to a log cabin, half hidden by surrounding and overhanging
elms-and literally covered with climbing and creeping vines.
Before the door sat a girl, spinning on a little wheel, who, at
the first glimpse of strangers, instantly arose, and tak~ug up
her wheel, retired into the house. - Captain Clifton left his
conipanions, and going up to the door, called, saying-
"Catherine, my good girl, briug me a gourd here."
Kate Kavanagh came, and with her eyes fixed upon the,
ground, and her face suffused with a deep blush, handed the
required article, and instantly disappeared within.
"By all the angels, what* a fine face !" exclaimed Major
Cabell, gazing after her.
Archer Clifton shot a quick, piercing glance at the speaker,
who, meeting it full as he turned, laughed, exclaiming,-as if
a new discovery had been made-
"Oh! Ay! Soh! you are there, are you? So then,
this is the mountain-beauty, the hidden treasure of Archer
Clifton, that has set all the country ladies agog with scandal,
and all the country gentlemen mad witih envy ?"
The hot blood rushed to Clifton's brow.

A
:1
If
I
~ (


"Oh! now, don't be jealous! Don't be alarmed! Your
treasure is safe from me-though, by all the queens of chi~
vairy, hers is a noble face-a face to bleed and die for!
None of your pretty lily and rose baby beauties that may be
seen by hundreds anywhere-but a noble girls fit for a tuon-
arch's love and counsellor!"
In an instant Archer Clifton strode up and stood with
bended brow and folded arms before him; and said, in a low,
deep, stern tone of concentrated passion-
"You are my relative, friend, ~guest! Your three-fold
claim upon my forbearance should protect you from any re-
sentment for words spoken against~my honor. But, I charge
you, retract your words! And if you harbor one single sus-
picion against that young girl, you are a villain! S'deatb,
sir! Has the world come to such a pass, and is the honor
of Archer Clifton of so little worth, that he cannot protect a
poor young maiden without injury to her? By Heaven! be
warned! For if you do but breathe one breath to dim the
lustre of that girl's goad name-by the good Lord that made
us good, and the demon that turned us to evil! relative,
friend and guest as you are, I will slay and drag you to her
feet to die !"
So sudden, so mighty-so appalling was this burst of pas-
sion, that for a moment after it was over, Cabell and Fairfax
stood as if transfixed with astonishment. Then Cabell, in
the frankest way in the world, held out his hand, exclaim-
ing-
"I like that! D-d if I don't! Come, Clifton-I was
wrong, forgive me! give me your hand! By my soul, I like
a man that will stand up for-there! by all that's fatal, I
had liked to have tripped again !"
"Understandume, sir," said Archer Clifton, sternly. "You
know me to be on the eve of marriage with our cousin. She
is my liege lady, and never for one instant in thought, word,
or deed, has my allegiance swerved from her service. And
more, gentlemen, both! A single word touchiiig the fair
fame of her-of Catherine, I mean-touches me home."
They were here overtaken by two or three other gentle-
men,. and the conversation took another and less perilous
turn, as they wandered down towards the mineral spring.
After slaking their thirst, the party divided. Major Cabell

joined the three latest corners, and Clifton and Fairfax turned
towards the farm-house.
'~You seem to be moody this evening, Archer," said
Frank, after they had pursued their way for some time in
silence.
"Yes~that foolish jest of Cabell's has annoyed me. It
is villainous! It is diabolical! Such light words, in which
a young girl's fair fame is laughed and jested away, may be
thoughtless, but they should be punished with death !"
"That's a harsh sentence !"
"A just one
"You feel this bitterly !"
"I DO. For her name has been used! Frank! you be-
lieve that if a word of disrespect were to be breathed by any
inaii against my mother, I would lay that man dead at my
feet without an instant's grace ?"
"Yes! I thoroughly believe that you would send such an
one to his last account in a great hurry."
"And if any one were but to look an insult to Catherine,
it wOuld rouse all the ferocity of the demon in me to over-
throw and trample him to death !"
"'All this I steadfastly believe,' as the catechism says
about total depravity !"
"And, Frank! you, yourself have sometimes spoken flip-
pantly of my regard for that girl-never so insultingly as
Cabell did just now, else you would not now possess my
esteem and friendship-but you have tr~flecl with the subject.
Now understand, Frank, that I shall consider it a deep per-
sonal affront in future if you repeat it !"
"You haven't heard me joke to you about Kate for a long
"No-I certainly hayc not."
"No-for be hanged if the matter is not getting far too
serious for jesting !"
"What do you mean
"Archer! Have you never heard ~t said that those whom
it concerns first to be made acquainted with an injurious re-
portare usually the last to hear it, and when they are inno-
cent, they are the more exposed for being innocent, because
they never suspect the slander, and never guord against it'?"
"In Heaven's name, what do you mean'?"

L

90             TIlE CURSE OF CLIFTON.                                 THE CURSE OF CLIFTON.           91

91

90

V
V
I:
it'
I
I
~ t
~


92

TILE CURSE OF CLIFTON.

"This. Cabell's jest was but the echo of the whole county
talk. I have been asked, I suppose, twenty times, by twenty
different young men, to tell them all about our adventure
upon the mountain."
"That was because you first of all represented it as an
adventure."
"I confess it! In shame and confusion I confess it-but
then many times I a~n also asked what is the precise nature
of the relations subsisting between yourself and this girl 'f"
"NoNd!"
"Yes, I tell you !"
"No! no one dares to question that !"
"But they do, I tell you! Ay, and answer their own
questions in a manner that reflects very little honor upon the
parties !"
"Would God I had never seen the ,girl! Would God I
had never brought-her here! I would give my right hand
rather than evil should befall her! But wuo is it that dares
slander her ~ Tell rhe! Give me some name! Let me
have SOME one to make an example of!"
"Nay, Clifton! you can't make an example of women and
children !" said Frank, evasively.
"By Heaven, sir, they have husbands and fathers, who
shall be held accountable for the license of tongue they allow
their wives and daughters !"
"Nay, now, Archer! This is a mere matter of gossip,
that will die out, if you are discreet !"
"To dare to talk of her! They never looked upon' her
face! Else they never could associate the thought of evil
with that noble brow, those thoughtful eyes, and serious lips!
To slander her!"
"Nay, nay-it is not slander; only what I am afraid
should become such. It is only fun-joke-"
"To dare to joke of her I"
"'Her!' Verily, Clifton, any one to hear you breathe
'her!' with your full soul's volume poured into the little
word, would think there was but one 'her' in the world!
Archy, you take a very strange interest in that girl. Are
you sure that you are not in love with her ~"
"In love with her! Nonsense-she is a child !"

TILE CURSE OF CLIFTON.             9~1
"Well then, are you sure you should not be in love with
herif she were a woman ~"
"iRjdiculous! She is a low-born girl !"
"Oh! I forgot! I beg pardon! You demonstrated that
to me before."
"And, besides, sir; please to remember that all my love
and faith are due to my cousin, Miss Clifton; and that she
has my whole heart! I love, admire, honor, my beautiful
betrothed bride-nor for her proud sake will I brook tl~at
any one should think it possible that I could even ~n thought
fail in full loyalty to my liege lady! But, Frank! my soul's
dear brother! as I tell you everything, I will tell you this!
that I feel the very deepest interest in Catherine's welfare!
If you ask me why-I tell you I do not know! It surprises
and confounds myself! But from the first moment I looked
upon her noble face, I felt that interest stir within my deep-
est soul. And it has never since ceased !"
"I swear you are enamored of her !"
"Preposterous, Frank! you make me angry! It is a
very different thing from being enamored of her, let me tell
you! There is my beautiful, but cold and scornful bride, up
at Clifton! Well, I am the most patient of all adoring
slaves! I wait upon her* sovereign eyes all day. long! I
am 'proud to submit to her ~hims-.to do' her lightest bid-
ding, and pick up her lap-dog-or to obey her severest
command, and exile myself from her gracious presence all
day long But now observe the difference! I feel a deep,
strong, strange interest in Kate. I cannot account for It.
I feel a sort of unratified -right of property in her. I wish
to do her good. But I wish that all the good she may ever~
possess in the world, may come from only me! and that for all
good things with which I cannot supply her, she may suffer
the want rather than owe their possession to another! Very
like love, is it not ~ But I wish to control her destiny! I
wish to have her in my power !-in all honor, however! It
galls me to think that I have no right of authority or guar-
dianship over her! I ardently desire such a right! I long
to have the disposal of her person and fate! I crave with a
frantic cra~ing, to have inore than a father's-more than a
husband's-more than a ii~aster's right over her! I would to
God she were born mine-my own-body, soul and spirit!
VOL. 1.8

I

I
I
I
1~
i


94             THE CURSE OF CLIFTON.                                   THE OTJRSE OF CLIFTON.           95

My own to use or~ abuse-to crown or kill, as I listed !"
exclaimed Clifton, passionately, while his cheeks and very lips
were white and dry, and his eyes burned with a fierce, con-
suming, inward fire. And forgetting all things real, he felt
as in a vision, a girl's spirit swoop down upon his bosom, and
a dream voice murmur in his ear-" Oh! if it will give you
one instant's joy to press me strongly to your heart-ctush me
to death in the fold, and my soul will exhale in rapture to
Heaven." The fervid vision came and passed like lightning,
and Clifton roused himself from reverie, with a smile and a
sneer, saying-" Very like love, all that! is it not ~"
But as Frank did not reply, and as they had now arrived
*            at the gate leading into the yard, the conversation ceased.
The early tea-table was set out' under the shade of the
great oaks, and the ladies were walking about, taking the
opening air in the yard. As supper was only waiting the
arrival of Captain Clifton and Mr. Fairfax, it was i~ow speedily
served.
After tea was over, the carriages were all brought round,
and the company took leave of Mrs. Clifton, and departed.
Captain Clifton and Mr. Fairfax were the last to leave..
They mounted their horses and took the bridle-path down
the mountain-side. This separated them from the rest of
their party, who went by the road.' They did not, however,
converse. Frank was thoughtful; and Clifton himself buried
in a deep reverie.
It was quite early when they arrived at White Cliffs; and
the remainder of the party had not yet arrived. Mr. Fairfax
joined Mrs. Clifton in the garden, and Archer Clifton sought
his lady-love, where he was informed he would find her,
namely, in the Summer saloon, He threw down his hat and
entered hurriedly, intendix~g to surprise from her a hasty kiss.
Carolyn was standing looking out of the window upon the
rich sunset scen&amp;~-the last sun that would set upon her
~.naiden life, perhaps, she thought. On seeing Clifton sh~
moved away, and' retreated to' the work-table at which she
seated herself. Clifton approached, and with an air of gal-
lantry, half serious, half playful, kneeled upon one knee
and kissed her hand. She drew it coldly away-but that
was the custom of the "proud ladie," and did not surprise
her lover. He arose and drew a chair to her side and seated

himself, and began to affect an interest in her little lady-like
occupations. Her right hand rested upon a pile of beautifully
fine linen cambric handkerchiefs-an item in the imported
trousseau. He laid his hand upon hers, and asked her some
trivial question about them.
Now, Carolyn, after a day's extreme suffering, had almost
gained a victory t~ver her passion. Her haughtiness had almost
saved her. Not to one soul in that house-not to Georgia,
had she betrayed the least sign of the cruel suspicion 'that
had nearly maddened her brain. Not for all Clifton-not
for all the world would she have betrayed her passion to her
lover-or condescended to admit that she Iould be jealous
of him* for she felt that once to accuse him would be to
impose upon her the necessity of breaking with him. How
could she, in honor, marry a man to-morrow whom to-day
she had accused of treachery ?-.besides, she was not sure-.
could never be sure of his moral dereliction. And while
there was a doubt in his favor, she must conquer or
conceal all suspicion,.. oi', letting escape, must break with
him, even at this last moment--.-must break with him for-
ever! At least so her high spirit' and her pride argued.
She could not part with him-pride forbade that also.-.
What! the marriage of Miss Clifton of Clifton broken off at
"the last moment, and all about a mountain-girl ~ Pah!
Forbid it, all the shades of all the buried Cliftons! Hearts
might break, but haughty heads must not be bowed! Bet-
ter lost peace than lost place! And then ~he loved him !-.
loved him the deeper for suppressing all signs of love !-and
she could not bear to lose him! And banish him she must,
if she should once betray the jealous passion of her heart.
This mighty motive kept down the rising storm. Yet all,
depended upon her vigilant self-control. Should a look, a
word of suspicion, escape her then, she felt the curbed frenzy
of her soul would have broken all bounds~ even as by the
smallest fracture in the dyke, the mighty and irresistible 'sea
is let in upon the land, carrying destruction and death before
it! All depended on her silence. So, to keep her lover
from noticing her mood,-.or fatally inquiring its cause-and
to give him employment, she pushed the pile of handkerchiefs
towards him, saying calmly-...
"Mark them for me."

'1'

94


THE CURSE OF CLIFTON.
Clifton smilingly took them, found the little vial of inde1i~
ble ink; and went to work-himself well pleased to have
some service to perform for his liege lady, that would, with-
out disrespect to her, deliver him from the duty of keeping
up a running conversation, for 'which he felt indisposed.
She need not have feared that Archer Clifton would oh-
serve her mood. He himself. was too abstracted, too thought-
ful, to be critical or inquisitive. He was deeply troubled by
the recollection of the conversations of the afternoon, affect.
ing Kate Ravanagh. Instead of benefiting, had he really
wronged that excellent girl ?-~~darkened the very morning
of her just opening life with the clouds of suspicion? And
was even )ais mother's protection insufficient to shield her in~
nocence from such attacks of slander? Yes !-for the fact
of his mother's protection was not even acknowledged.
Slander shuts its eyes to truth, while it opens its lips to false.
hood.. Should he send her back to the mountain, and expose
her to all the evils of that life? No, no !-his whole heart
protested against that course. Yet what to do to save her?
He could not decide then. He could not even get his own
consent to consult his mother. What! wound her ear with
the repetition of such a story? Never! His usual prompti-
tude of decision and action forsook him quite. A cry was
in his heart, and he could only repeat to himself her name
in deep sorrow,-" Oh, Kate! Kate! Kate Kavanagh !"
until her very name" Kate Kavanagh," became the refrain
of a plaintive silent melody! Meantime he pursued his oc-
cupation quite mechanically, marking and laying down, One by
one, the handkerchiefs, until the whole dozen was complete.
Carolyn Clifton watched his complete and mournful abstrac-
tion with increasing suspicion.
When all the handkerchiefs were marked,' he took the
parcel, and shaking off sad thought, smilingly laid them be-
fore his lady's eyes, gayly entreating her to examine his work,
and reward him with a kindly word if it should please her.
Miss Clifton~ took up the parcel, her eyes fell npon the
topmost handkerchief, and she started violently. She swiftly
turned it over and looked at the second, and the blood rushed
to her brow! At the third, and it receded again, leaving
her pale~ as death! She hurriedly went through the dozen,
t1~en springing to her feet, she hurled the parcel to the floor,

THE CURSE OF CLIFTON.

97

and setting her heel upon it, lifted her proud form to its
loftiest height, and stood, her chest expanded, her. head
thrown hack, her cheek kindling, her .eyes blazing,-full!
full !-yet proudly suppressing all utterance of passion!
Captain Clifton st rted to his feet, exclaiming-
"Carolyn, my dear cousin
But spurning the parcel beneath her heel, she turned im-
periously away, and walked up the room.
He followed her, repeating-
"Carolyn, my dearest Carolyn! what is it ?"
Turnjng and flashing upon him her fierce, imperious eyes,
she stretched out her arm, and pointed in scornful silence to
the handkerchiefs on the floor.
ile went and picked them up to examine them. Oh!
treacherous absence of mind! Oh! fatal refrain of the
mental melody! Oh! horror of horrors! Catastrophe of
catasti~ophes! Upon every handkerchief was beautifully
marked-" KATE KAVANAGH."
"Confirmation strong
As proof from Lioly Writ."
Ay, and a great deal stronger, as sight is more convincing
than faith! What. was to be done? It was in vain to deny
or attempt to explain it! Yet he must try, even if he should
make himself ridiculous. Hurling the fatal "haudker~hiefs"
down with virulence, he sprang to the side of the outraged~
and indignant beauty; ~eized her 'hand, exclaiming, vehe-
mently-
"My dearest love-pardon! pardon! This is all a mis-
take !"
Spurning his clasp from her hand, she turned away in
arrogant silence.
Dropping upon one knee, he took her hand again, and
looking up in her face, said, in a voice of entreaty-
"My Carolyn! this is all a mistake !-the most absurd
mistake! The effect of the merest absence of mind! The
most ridiculous thing !"
"Oh, sir !" she answered, with slow and withering scorn,
drawing her hand away again, "I do not doubt it was a mis-
take. I never supposed you would dare an intentional insult
to my father's daughter !"
8*

1:

~1

I

3
4

V
N.
'1


I"
(
A
~' K
~~II'~ ~
I
I"
" H
I
I
K'?

TILE CURSE OF CLIFTO~.

"But, Carolyn, my dearest cousin, only permit me to ex-
plain
"Oh, sir, I treatet you spare me the humiliation of hear-
ing the story !" she sneered, with curling lip.
"But, Carolyn, my dear, loved bride! My bride, that
will be, to-morrow-if you will allow me to tell you all the
simple truth-.--the reason why this young girl's name ran in
my head so."
"Oh, sir !" she exclaimed, raising both hands, and turning
away her head in loathing-" I implore you !-I most humbly
beseech you to forbear! Spare me details that might shock
my-delicacy !"
- "Carolyn," he said, gravely and reproachfully rising, and
taking her hand-" this does not become you."
Throwing off his hand, with scorn and indignation, she
replied..-.
"It would less become me, sir, to listen to the history you
would tell !" Then subsiding into a mood of contemptuous
irony, she said, with a sneering smile-" Believe me, sir, I
feel more disgusted at your bad taste than shocked at your
sin, or wronged by your bad faith. .~q mowntain-girl!
Truly, I am humiliated to think so base a rival should have
moved we-even to contempt. I am dishonored, sir, in that.
Iliad your wandering fancy fixed upon one of my cousins-
one of the elegant Misses Cabell, I might have mourned your
infidelity, but should have been saved this deep humiliation
for myself, and this utter contempt for you-but a mountain-
girl! A coarse, ignorant, ill-bred mountain-girl! 0/i-/i-A!
that you should have.stooped, or I should have been moved,
by so low a creature as that! I could bury my head with
shame !"
"Carolyn!" he said, sternly, "permit me to inform you-"
"No, siu !" she exclaimed, scorn writhing her lips, indig-
nation flashing from her eyes-" JN~o, sn~! You shall tell
me NOTHING! It would ill-become my mother's daughter to
listen to the revolting history of-your base amour with the
mountain-girl !"
Yes, in the bitterness ~f her passion, she forgot her maiden
delicacy, and spoke those shameful words to his astonished
ears!
"Miss Clifton !" he replied, severely, folding his arms,

!I~I{E CURSE OF CLIFTON~.

99

and gazing sternly and steadily into her blushing face-for
she was already blushing for her temerity-until she quailed
before him-" Miss Clifton, you mistake my purpose-I have
no intention, now, to explain anything-the man who would
condescend' to deny so base a crime 'as you have charged upon
me-is not too high or pure to commit it. Therefore, I deign
to say nothing for myself. 'But for the admirable girl that
you have slandered-I will say this: Had a man dared to
asperse the fair fame of Catherine Kavanagh-though that
wan had been my bosom friend-he should have expiated his
falsehood with his life :-Had any other woman breathed a
breath of slander on her-her husband or her father should
have atoned for the fault :-For yourself, Miss 'Clifton-you
shall retract your words, before ever I shall call you wife!"
This roused her passion to ungovernable fury. Turning
ghastly white, while the light seemed to leap from her eyes,
she exclaimed, in a low, deep, intense tone-
"DEATH, sir! Do you threaten me? Insult me in my
father's house? Leave it! You are unworthy to stand
upon this floor! BEGONE !" And reaching out her hand,
she seized the bell cord, and rang a peal that presently
brought a servant to the door. The advent ofa third party,
though that party was a menial, constrained the lady to' re-
member herself. Miss Clifton was her cold, serene, dignified
self again. Turning to the servant, she said, haughtily,
"Show Captain Clifton to the front door, and bring round
his horse, instantly. He returns to Hardbargain, to-night."
And she bowed to Clifton, and calmly and imperiously walked
from the room.
The man stood waiting and bowing. Captain Clifton
snatched his hat, saying-
"Let my horse be brought round, without delay, Damiy,
and tell your master, when he returns, that he shall hear
from me at Hardbargain."
When the man had bowed and retired, Captain Clifton
passed out through the open leaf of the window, into the
piazza, and thence down into the lawn, to speak to Frank,
who was just entering from the 'gai'den with Mrs. Clifton on
his arm.
Georgia saw at a glance, that her train of gunpowder had
caught, and the magazine had blown tip, and her dark, beau-

98

1


~7 r
;
~ (
p
1K

TILE CURSE OF CLIFTON.

tiful, demoniac, witching face lighted up with a lurid joy for
one unguarded instant, and then all was self-recollection,
self-control, and sweet, smooth, serene, alluring glamour.
Bowing deeply to Mrs. Clifton, he said-
"Madam, an unexpected event sends me from Clifton this
evening. Pray make my adicus to my uncle and cousin.
And permit me to commend my friend here to your hospi-
table care until such time as he pleases to become my guest
at'Hardbargain-if, indeed, he will not ride thither with me
to night," he added, turning to Frank.
Fairfax was too surprised to speak.
Mrs. Clifton, who was not surprised at all, yet affected
much interest, said, archly-
"Oh, but we shall see you back very early to-morrow
1~~
morning.
"I regret to add, madam, that it is not likely," he said,
with another bow; then turning to Frank, he asked-
"Will you ride with me to-night, Fairfax ~"
Frank glanced at tho lady on his arm, and then looking
rebukingly at Clifton, begged to be excused.
"Well, then, you are my guest, Fairfax, and my mother
has often pressed you to give her a few weeks of your com-
pany. Join me at Hardbargain as soon as possible-the
soorfer the better. To-morrow even-"
"To~morrow!" archly smiled the wily lady. Tomorrow,
I Cancy, his attendance and your own will be required here.
Do you forget ?-Well, that is the worst instance of absence
of mind I ever saw or heard of! A young bridegroom to
forget, for an instant, his wedding-day! Too bad, even for
you, the notoriously-absent-minded Archer Clifton !".
Not wishing to enter into explanations, Captain Clifton
merely replied with another bow-a most convenient, safe
and polite manner of answer, since, without lack of
it committed nothing.                -       courtesy,
Then, taking leave of both lady and gentleman, and re-
peating his invitation to Frank, he turned and went to take
his horse from the servant that held it, threw himself up into
the saddle, and, with a parting wave of his hat, rode away at~
full speed.
"Clifton looks darkly-what can be the matter P' asked
Frank.

THE CURSE OF CLIFTON.

ifJl

"Oh, nothing! probably Mrs. Clifton, of Hardbargain,
has been troubled with some refractory servant, and has sent
for her son to come up and reduce him to order-or possibly
there may be some dispute or difficulty in settling the de~
inands of the hired harvest hands. They are often even
dishonest in their extortions."
"Deferring to your bettQr judgment, madam, still, I fear
not! I think such trifles would scarcely have raised so dark
a thunder-cloud upon Clifton's brow," said Frank.
"Oh, well! At worst it is but sonic lover's quarrel with
his most exacting queen, Carolyn !" playfully replied the
lady.
Frank was not satisfied-he was pained. This most dan-
gerous dark beauty fascinated and frightened him by turns.
He had never seen the fiend in her face since that first night,
and her witching power had almost erased the remembrance
of it from his mind. Indeed, if he had ever recollected it, it
was with wonder and remorse that he should have ever read
such fearful meaning in a lady's frown, and he ascribed it to
the phantasmagoria of his own fatigued nerves and over~
excited brain. But now he felt vaguely anxious, suspicious,
foreboding-he scarce knew wtierefore. He had no reason
to reply to the lady again, for at the instant she finished
speaking, the carriages drove into the yard, bringing the
company from Hardbargain, and they walked forward to
welcome them home.

100

4
4
p

it
jJ~ii

I ~


102

THE CURSE OF CLIFTON.

I
[
~
~
;( f~
I
~ &amp;
2?
~1
IA

THE CURSE OF CLIFTON.

.103

CHAPTER VII.
THE SEVERED HEARTS.
Alas! how slight a cause may move
Dissension between hearts that love-  A.
Hearts that the world in vain had tried,
And sorrow but more closely tied;
That stood the storm when waves wera rough,
Yet in a sunny hour fell ofi;
Like ships that have gone down at sea,
When Heaven was all tranquillity!
A something light as air-a lo6k-
A word unkind or wrongly taken;
Oh, love that tempests never shook,
A breath-a touch like this hath shaken.-MooaE.
So1~iE hours after the arrival of the company, old Mr.
Clifton sat alone in his study, examining piles of accounts,
merchants', mechanics', and hired laborers' bills, that had
come in as usual upon the first of July, many weeks before,
yet had not, up to this night, been settled. For many years
past the financial affairs of the Master of Clifton had been
falling behiudhand. The cause of ths was that no planta-
tion and plantation house can thoroughly succeed without
the personal superintendency of an efficient mistress to assist
the master's effort. Often, indeed, it happens, that while
the master himself is engaged in state politics, or off at the
legislature, or at congress, or on the circuit as a.judge of the
court, or in the metropolis of the state, or of the nation,
holding some high office under the government-the mistress,
at home upon the plantation, is the main-spring of all its
business-superintending........not only the house and house-
maids, with their multifarious cares and avocations, suc1~ as
a city housewife cannot conceive of, but managing the planta-
tion also-keeping the overseer to his duty, adjudging
equitably all difficulties that may arise between him and the
slaves under his charge-looking over all the numerous
accounts, paying debts, and, when necessary, retrenching

J
}

expenses. Now the Clifton plantation had been singularly
unfortunate in a series of inefficient mistresses, even before
it foil in regular succession to the present Mr. Clifton. And
after that, affairs were worse than ever. His first wife, the
haughty Miss 0-ower, the mother of Carolyn, was far too
groat a lady to look after a housekeeper and overseer, and
her successors had been all rung girls, very worthless, ex-
cept as pets and playthings, and who had, besides, to be
indulged every year with their winters in Richmond, or in
Washington-a two-fold evil, as it took the master from his
plantation and men, and the mistress from her house and
maids, and laid them, besides, under the heavy expense of
city hotel living, dressing, dinner-giving, theatres, balls,
concerts, etc. Once in awhile, as a bridal treat, or at the
successive "comiii~ out" of daughters, a winter in the me-
tropolis may be well enough. But when continued year
after year, through a lifetime, to the total neglect of the
plantation, the revenues of no ordinary estate will hold out.
So it followed, that as the master and mistress ceased to
look after the overseer and the housekeeper, the overseer
and housekeeper ceased to look after the men and maids,
and the men and maids grew careless and indolent in the
performance of their duties. Thus, as the expenses rose,
the income fell. And thus, at the present time, old Mr.
Clifton was almost irredeemably in debt, and all the Clifton
property, except the land, mortgaged to its full value. The
mortgage might foreclose at any instant. And at this pre-
sent moment, the poor old master of great Clifton had not
the ready money to pay his harvest hands. The extent of
his liabilities was, however, so little known in the neighbor-
hood, that his credit was still good, and almost high-and
the estate of White Cliffs was' still considered as one of the
most prosperous in the county, and the owners still held as
very enviable people. While old Mr. Clifton sat pondering
most dismall~r over his impracticable accounts, the study
door was suddenly thrown open, and Miss Clifton entered,
in great excitement, and threw herself into a chair before
her father, exclaiming-
"Father, I have been insulted !"
The old man, never indifferent to his children's cry-ever
ready in the midst of his own real cares, to hear and sympa'


104

THE CURSE OF CLIFTON.

N
~
V
'p
* 4;
1J
I
/;

105

THE CURSE OF CLIFTON.

thize even with their fantastic griefs.-looked up from his
papers in perplexity, inquiring-
"What is it 3 What did you say, my child 3"
"I have been insulted !-outragcd sir !"
The old man gazed at her in surprise, repeating......
Insulted, outraged!"'
"Yes, sir! contended, despised, scorned, insulted, out-
raged, rejected!"              /
The old man placed his hands upon the arms of the chair,
and gazed in astonishment, exclaiming......
Insulted !~-outraged!' Whom 3 You, my daughter!
Miss Clifton! Impossible."
"Yes, sir! me, your daughter-Carolyn Clifton!"
"Who has presumed-who has dared- 3"
"Captain Clifton, sir, 'has dared!"' ~ep1ied the indig-
nant beauty, rising in her excitement.
The old gentleman stared at her in blank wonder for a
minute, and then-taking her hand-
"Sit down-..sit dowr~-.--sit down-sit down," he kept' re-
peating, "and tell me ~all about it."
Carolyn drank a glass of ice water that stood near her on
the table, and then, in a cooler manner, told her father ex-
actly what had passed, and how it had finally ended.
The old gentleman scratched his snow-white head in vex-
ation and perplexity, but the winter bloom of his broad, rosy
face, was neither heightened nor lowered at the hearing of
the tale. He did not by any means display the indignation
the offended beauty had expected.
"Well, sir!" at last she said, rather haughtily, "what do
you say to this 3"
He put his arm fondly around her waist, and drew her to
him, saying, caressingly-
" You're a fool, Carolyn ! A vain, jealous little fool,
that's all! Nay, now !-no airs with your old father! Ac-
cording to your own showing, it has been Archer that has
been condemnedd, despised, scorned, insulted, outraged, re-
jected!' and the rest of it-and upon no just grounds, either!
as I can easily prove to you. I am very much mortified-
deeply humbled, indeed, to hear that my daughter, a high-
born young maiden, should have forgotten her feminine pride
arid delicacy, and reproached her lover with an intimacy with

a ~ountaiflgirla race of women, with very few exceptions,
so low and wretched, that a young lady should ignore their
very existence. Oh, my conscience, Carolyn! why do you
not cover your face, and die with humiliation 3 I do not
wonder a man of such high honor and delicate sensibility as
Archer Clifton, should have been shocked and disgusted.
Nay, my child !-no airs with me! No tossing of the head,
and curling of the lip with me! I am your father. You
must listen to me. You have done Archer the most out-
rageous injustice. And your jealousy is as ridiculous as it is
indelicate. In the first place, this girl, though brought up
on the mountain, comes of respectable, if humble parentage,
and possesses, by all accounts, a higher toned moral and in-
tellectual nature than most young ladies are endowed with.
She is as far removed from vice as my own Carolyn! In the
second place, she is the prot~g6 of Mrs. Clifton, as well as
of Captain Clifton, and enjoys that excellent lady's esteem
and friendship, spending half of every day in her company,
except when visitors are at the house.. In the third and last
place, she is not a beautiful woman, but an ugly child-being
scarcely fourteen years of age, and having the ugliest face I
ever saw in my life-at least I think so, though Mrs. Clifton
says it is a noble face. It has large features, and is full of
strength and expression, like a boy's. There, now, that's
all! Now! what do you think of yourself 3"
During this short explanation, Carolyn's beautiful counte-
nance had changed expression as rapidly and as variously as
during the lay of the minstrel the harp changes and varies
its notes. At its close she dropped down by the side of the
old man, and throwing her arms and her head upon his knees,
in utter weakness and dejection, sobbed-
"Father! how shall I ever be forgiven 3"
He raised her to his knee, and putting his arm around her
waist, drew her head upon his bosom, and said-
"It is an ugly lover's quarrel, certainly, my love! And
Archer Clifton is as proud as you are! But itmust be made
up! It must be made up! A very ugly quarrel, indeed!
And on the eve of your marriage',,too! iRut it must be made
up! It must be made up! Ah, doubtless he will be. over
to-morrow night! He~ feels as bad as you do, I'll warrant
VOL. I.-9


he does! I'll warrant he does! I ~iiusAd, I know, if 1
wore he !"
"Ah,'father! no he does not! ITo was in the right! [
was in the wrong !"
"Yes! you were wrong, Carry! And I hope it will be a
lesson to you! But that~ makes n~ difference in his feelings,
not a whit! He suffers as much as you do! Why, whei~ I
have a ditliculty with my poor little pet, Georgia, if she is
ever so 'wrong, and I ever so right, I am nevertheless the
most miserable ivan alive!"
"Ah, father, but there is a great difference-I am not
Archer's pet, but was to be his consort. We-Archer and
myself, are nearly equal in station, ay, education, disposi-
tion, and so are more responsible for our conduct towards
each other !"' sighed Carolyn, dropping her head dejectedly
upon his bosoni.
"Oh, well! now if you are~ so full of doubts and fears!
it is but ten o'clock! I will mount my horse, and ride up to
Hardbarg4n, and knock the young gentleman up-I doubt
if he is asleep !-and bring him back here, to-night!"
"Not for the world! Not for ten thousand worlds !" ex-
claimed the proud girl, vehemently.
"Ah, then I don't know what to do with you-go to bed,
and try to sleep, and if you can't do that, ring for the house-
keeper, and make her give you some of her nostrums, to put'
you to sleep! And go into a state of non-existence, that
shall obliterate the time between this and to-morrow morn-
ing. And to-morrow, I'll warrant Archer will be here to
breakfast with us, and to beg your pardon for the sins that
you 'committed! for that's the en4 ~of all lovers' quarrels!
No m~t~ter who's right and who's' wrqi~g-who's sinned
against, and who's sinning, the genthinian has tod~ the pen-
ance! There! kiss me, and be off with you !-~-and hark ye,
Carolyn! don't forget to kneel down and prayileaven to
give you the grace of a meeker temper !"
Carolyn 'Clifton went to her room and retired to bed, to
heat her pillow with her feverish head, to wet it with her
~hot tears-to sigh, an4 groan, and toss, and sob all night.
This bitter, bitter quarrel,"was the first trouble, the girl had
evor had in all her favored life. And she was impatient

L

with it, indignant at it. She was angry with herself for her
injustice and indelicacy; angrywith Clifton for not forcing
upon' her the explanation she would not consent to receive,
but which, had she been forced to hear, would have arrested
the quarrel, and saved this' cruel suffering; angry at the to-
dious night, that lingered so long, keeping her in agonizing
suspense ;*rngry at the morning, that delayed its coming,
and bringing her the peace and joy of a reconciliation. ~And
so she tossed, and groaned, and 'suffered, like one in high
fever, while tb~e long, long night was slowly, slowly passing
away.
In. the meantime Captain Clifton had ridden away~ not so
angry as shocked, repulsed and alienated by the unprece-
dented behaviour of his lady-love. He disliked all demon-
strations of emotion, and detested all exhibitions of evil
passion in a woman. It was the high-bred delicacy and re-
finement-the queenly placidity-the cool reserve and stately
~dignity of Carolyn Clifton, 'that had attracted his first admi~
ration. And though he 'sometimes gallantly complained of
her cruelty, he would not have had her manner one degree
warmer. But now this fair, cool, peerless queen o'er her-
self and her emotions, had yielded to passions that might
govern a serving-maid-to suspicion, 3ealou5y, and fierce
auger-had descended to viruler~t, vituperative abuse! And,
henceforth, ~he was dis~rowned, and degraded from her pride
of place.
He arrived at Hardbargain-gave his horse in charge of
a servant, and entered the house.
The candles werejuBt lighted in, the parlor, and Mrs. Clif-.
ton and her favorite Kate sat sewing by the work-stand. As
he entered; Kate arose as usual with the intention of with-
drawing, but he signed to her' with hishand, and said in a
tone of command-
"No-stay, Catherine, and once for all give up that habit
of retiring as soon as myself or any other visitor enters."
The young girl returned to her seat and resumed her Work.
Then with a sort of spirit of persecution upon him, as one
would think, he went' to the maiden and inquired, impa-
tiently--.-

106            THE OURSE OF OLIFT~L                                 TYi~ OURSE OP OLflrTON.        107

106

107


THE CURSE OF CLIFTON.

* "Why do you always do that! Why do you always rise
and leave as soon as any one enters the room !"
She glanced up at him with those large, shy eyes, and in~
stantly veiled them again; while the blush 4eepened on her
cheek. Her heart-her disobedient, rebellious heart that
would not be calm when she bade it-was beating fast against
her bosom, as it ever beat, when he looked at h4 or spoke
to her. To have saved her soul alive, she could not have
put her niotive into words, and told him that she ever feared
her society, or even her presence, might not be as acceptable
to Mrs. Clifton's visitors as it was to that kind lady herself.
She only bowed her head and blushed the deeper that she
could not answer, and yet deeper still, that she felt him
gazing on her. He was gazing on her !-gazing down on
that beautiful, dark auburn hair, rippling and glittering under
the light of the lamp-on that broad monarchal forehead, on
those even eyebrows and long eyelashes, dropping fine
shadows on the glowing cheek-yes! gazing and thinking of
Major Cabell's enthusiastic admiration, and wondering why
all the world did not agree with him in thinking that counte-~
nance grandly beautiful! Yet even while admiring her so
much, he spoke angrily, and said-
"Catherine! You have a second habit even worse than
the first! Lately you have taken up the practice of not re-
plying to me when I ask you a questipn-~...~and when you are
obliged to raise your eyes to mine, you drop them instantly
as if mine burnt them. Now I have always disliked and
suspected eyes that cannot look freely into other eyes !"
At this the very forehead of the girl burned with a crimson
flush. Cliftor~ took hold of her hand, which fluttered in his
own like a frightened bird, and said, in a kinder tone-
"Come, my child! see now if you can look me honestly
in the face, and tell me why you will not talk to me!"
But Kate's distress became so great that Mrs. Clifton in-
terposed, and said-
"Do, Archer, leave her alone! It does seem to me, son,
that you take a malicious pleasure in tormenting that poor
girl because she is so shy! Don't mind him; Kate! lie has
been a tease ever since he was a boy, when he used to pull
the ears of kittens and puppy dogs. Take up your work,
child, and hurry on with it. And you, Archer! I am as

much surprised as pleased to see you back here to-night. To
what am I indebted for the pleasure !"
"My dear mother, I will tell you after awhile-let me be
quiet now a little time."
And Mrs. Clifton looked up in surprise, and noticed, for
the first time, how deeply troubled was Archer Clifton's face.
After watAflg him a few minutes as he sat and watched
Kate, she said, suddenly-
"Oh! I have a letter for you-arrived by the afternoon
mail. Henry brought it from the post-office this evening
after you left. Perhaps it was in quest of that you came,
and its contents may dispel your uneasiness," and rising, the
lady went to the card rack, hanging above the mantle-piece,
and brought him a letter, which he tore open and read hastily.
Then starting up, he exclaimed, "Good! Good! Most ex-
cellent, most opportune !"
"What is it, my dear Archer! II am very glad it gives
you such satisfaction, at any rate! What is it !"
"An order from head-quarters to join my regiment imme-
diately, to take command of a detachment to march within
ten days for the Indian frontier-to put down an insurrec-
tion there !"
"No !" exclaimed the lady, in amazement.
"Yes, indeed, my good mother !" replied Archer Clifton,
exultingly.
"Xe! You astonish me! Ordered upon active duty~-~
upon distant and dangerous service at the very time you are
about to be married! Call you that opportune~-fortunate!
I call it most inopportune, unfortunate !"
"Ah! madam, you do not know! What, and if my mar~
riage were already broken off! Is it not lucky-I mean
providential, that I can join my regiment immediately, and
depart for a distant scene, and active service, in which I may
forget the sorrow and the humiliation!"
"Your marriage broken off! What! Now, at the last
moment! A marriage that has been looked forward to for
so many years! To be broken off when every thing is ready!
Impossible, it cannot be !"
"I assure you upon my word, madam, it is but too
true !"
"Why-what--do you tell me 3" exclaimed the lady, in
9*

F

L.

108            THE CURSE OF CLIFTON.                                                               109

108

109


110

THE CURSE OF CLIFTON.

increasing astonishment. "When did it happen 3 What
caused it 3 Had Mr. Clifton anything to do with it 3"
"It happened this evening after my return to Clifton. Mr.
Clifton had nothing whatever to do with it-not having
reached home at the time it occurred. It was occasioned by
a most humiliating quarrel between myself and Miss Clifton !"
"Oh, a quarrel! A lovers' quarrel! That ~ nothing!
Though, in truth, it surprises me that the calm, proud Caro-
lyn should descend to such' a thing, as it does that my own
son should deign to take a part in it. But it is really no-
thing! Such things occur in almost every courtship !"
"And those who quarrel in courtship should never venture
upon matrimony."
"Ah ! 'that is an inhuman, unfaithful sentiment, my son!
Young people are like other young natures, petulant, vain,
irascible, exacting~but life trains, them into modesty, so-
briety, forbearance. For this quarrel, Archer, it must be
adjusted! It shall be to-morrow morning!"
"No, madam, it shall not! ' This quarrel is irreconcilable,
believe me !"
"Pooh, pooh! What! with Carolyn? Nonsense !"
"Mother! you shall judge! She has descended from her
high place of maidenly pride and delicacy, and betraying the
most revolting phases of suspicion, jealousy and fierce anger;
she has charged me with infidelity, base treachery and vice !"
"Dreadful! dreadful! as all angry words and acts ever
are! But not unpardonable! Spoken in the frenz of as-
sion-~--they will be retracted to-morrow! And then you must
be reconciled. Things must go on as they have been planned.
There must beno discreditable exposure of this affray. The
marriage must take place, as proposed, to-morrow evening.
Then, if you must join your regiment, why it will be easily
understood that you must. And there will be no reproach
under those circumstances in leaving your newly wedded
bride under her father's protection !"
"Impossible, madam! Miss Clifton has to-night exhibited
her character and disposition in such revolting colors, that I
can never, never take her to my bosom !"
"You are angry now, Archer! You will think better of
it! I trust in Heaven you may do so before there is an ex-
posure. Think what will be the astonishment of the wed-

THE CURSE 011' CLIFTON..

in

dingConiPanY who will assemble to-morrow evening-the
mortification of the family at Clifton, and worse than all, the
scandal! the nine days wonder !"
~ thought my dear mother had too strong a mind to fear
these bugbears of the little, when a just occasion for meeting
ILnd braving them occurs.
"But I do not consider this an adequate occasion. That
this quarrel will be finally adjusted, I firmly believe. And
I think it a pity and a shame that to-morrow evening, three
hundred guests should be disappointed and dispersed, to
spread a subject of speculation and scandal all over the
country. And this merely because you will yet a little
longer indulge your anger ~',
"I' am not angry, mother. If I were only angry I should
let the marriage go on, if Miss Clifton thought proper to do
so, for I should know that my anger would pass away. No,
I am 'not angry, mother, but shocked, repulsed, and totally
estranged. I could no more marry Miss Clifton now, than t
could take any other loathed object to my bosom! The idea
makes me shudder !"
"Still I affirm that all this is intense anger, nothing else!
and that there will come a reaction. Why in anger, Archer,
the object is as much loathed as in love it is desired-but
1/tat is temporary, and this, I hope% you will find permanent.
I hope, at bott&amp;ni, you respect Carolyn 3 I esteem her. She
has been a spoiled child, but has so many undeveloped good
qualities, that she only wants the discipline of a little affec-
tion to make her a very excellent woman. I shall say no
more about this affair to-night, but wait t6 see what disposi-
tion I shall find you in to-morrow 1"
At this moment there was a knock at the door, and instantly
afterwards Ilenny came in and informed her mistress that Mr.
Kavanagh had come to take his sister home
"Ask Mr. Kavanagh to sit down in the hall. Put up
your sewing, Catherine, my dear?' said the lady.
Catherine arose to fol~l up her work, while Captain Clifton
looked very much as if he would like to stop her agaIn.
"Does she not remain with you at night madam 3"
"Certainly not-her brother always comes for her at bed~
time."
"How early does she come in the morning 3"

I
1~j~
:1


112

THE CURSE OP CLIFTON.

"She never comes in the morning. Catherine has her
own domestic affairs to attend to during the forenoon. She
never gets here till late in the afternoon."
"Then I shall not see her to-morrow--.-.not see her again
for many months-.-perhaps never see her again! Come here,
Catherine !"
Catherine came to his side, and stood, as usual, with her
eyes fixed up6n the ground, and her cheek painfully Ilu~hed.
He took h~r hand and pressed it in his own, while he said-...
"Catherine! you have heard all that passed between my..
self and Mrs. Clifton, this evening ~"
A quick, short, but not ungraceful nod was all her answer.
"And you know that I am going away on a distant and
dangerous service; I leave here very early in the morning.....
I may never come back, Catherine," he said, slow
at her steadily.                           ly, looking
Her hand in his grew cold-her cheek paled-her heart
stopped still as death-but no word did she speak in reply.
"Catherine! before I go, I intend to give you a command......
do you hear me ~"
A spasmodic nod was her reply.
"I may be gone many years. In the meanwhile you will
grow up to womanhood, Catherine; do not have any lovers-....
beau~r-.....as young girls call them, while I am away-and above
all things, do not choose a husband without first consulting
me through my mother."
Not knowing what to reply to this, Catherine remained
Perfectly silent.
"Will you obey' me in this, girl ?" he asked, rather impa-
tiently.
A low,' earnest choking "Yes sir," was ~hei~ answer.
"Kiss me, then! for I may never return," said Archer
Clifton, folding her for one moment to his bosom, and press-
ing a kiss upon her full lips.
But her lips grew cold at the touch-her face paled and
fell away from his bosom-her form drooped and sank back
Over his arm, where she lay like one dead, in a swoon.
Surprised, alarmed, Clifton raised her in both arms, and
hastened to the lounge, where he laid her, calling to his
mother. The lady caine forward without any trepidation,
and bringing a bottle of Hungary water, began to chafe her

THE CURSE OP CLIFTON.

113

temples and face, and finally gave that task to Clifton, while
she herself loosened Kate's dress.
"What could have been the cause of this, mother l Is
she subject to these attacks '~"
"I never knew her to faint before, though I have seen her
under very trying circumstances with that old man, her
grandfather."
"What could have occasioned it V'
"Why, the 8udden news of your going away on dangerous
service, of course," said Mrs. Clifton, as she resumed the
bottle, and continued to chafe the girl's face and hands.
"The child loves you, Archer; she has a very grateful,
affectionate heart, and very strong feelings. She loves us
both. And when you bade her good-bye, for a long and
perilous absence, is it, strange she should have been over-
come ~ When soldiers talk of danger, children' may be
for given for being Do go and tell Kavanagh
frightened.
that Kate must remain here to-night, and dismiss him."
went, and before he came back again, Kate, with a
ug drawn sigh, had opened her eyes and recovered.
"You must raise her, and take her up stairs, my dear
Archer. She must suffer no more agitation to..night,".Said
Mrs. Olifbn.
And he lifted the form of Catherine, and took her up stairs,
while his mother called Ilenny. When they had laid the
young girl on a bed, and left her to the care of Ilenny, and
had returned to the parlor again~-.CaPtain Clifton said-
"Mother! take care of that girl! She has been the inno-
cent, unconscious cause of my trouble to-day, but I cannot
feel dislike or even indifference towards her. Take care of
that humble maidep, mother, as if she were your daughter
~ my sister. Don't let any rustic beaux come near her,
mother. I cannot endure the idea of her marrying, or even
being wooed 'by any low, miserable fellow of her brother's
grade. And do not permit any young gentleman of the
neighborhood to trifle with her heart, or endanger her good
name. You know how easily, even without her fault, that
sole possession of a poor maiden is lost. The thought that
such an unmerited misfortune should befall Kate, exasperates
me beyond measure, and I feel like quarreling with the
whole order of society!"

V

'~-,.,

(I
41" -
ii


114

THE CURS]~ OF CLIFTON.

"What, you! the proud conservator ,of rank! Truly,
Archer, one would think Carolyn had some little ground of
complaint !" said the lady, with her little, low, half dignified,
half jolly laugh.
"This from you mother!" exclaimed Archer Clifton, re~
proachfully. "I thought you knew me better. You do
know me better! But II must have Some hand in this girl's
good fortune.''
Mrs. Clifton, who was walking about the room, quietly set~
ting things in order for the night, made no reply, but only
smiled. And soon after she lighted a night-lamp, and
placing it in the hand of her son, bade him good-night, and
retired to her chamber. Captain Clifton remained pacing up
and down the room, in troubled thought, some time after she
had left, before seeking his own couch.

THB CURSE OP CLIFTON.

115

CHAPTER VIII.
LOST AFFECTION.
"Oh! cast not thou
Affection from thee! In this bitter world
Hold to thy heart that only treasure fast;
~atch~~gUard it-suffer not a breath to dim
That bright gem's purity."-DdIUS. HEMA1~4S.
:NIoRNING caine at length. Carolyn Clifton arose unre-
freshed, weak, dizzy and sick. This was the first night's
rest she had ever lost in her life. And on looking in the
giass~habituallY the first thing the beauty ever did after
rising-she was shocked to see what havoc one night's evil
passions had made in her appearance. What a fright she
had become! How pale her cheeks, how dragged the
muscles, how red, dim, and sunken her eyes! And this
upon her wedding~day~and wken she had a quarrel to make
up with her intended husband, too! When, in fine, every
circumstance pressingly demanded that she should appear in
the highest beauty. Would Archer Clifton~~-wOuId that
fastidious, artistic worshiper of the bcautiful-~feel inclined
to a reconciliation with such a spectre as herself, she mentally
inquired, as she gazed wonderingly, deploringly, upon her
haggard face ~ Carolyn was vain and proud and scornful-
so vain and proud and scornful that she did not know-could
not imagine that that very haggard face~haggard with sor-
row for the estrangement and the separatiOns would be a
stronger appeal, make a deeper impression upon the heart of
her lover, than all the glory of her beauty had ever done.
And thus vanity, pride and scorn punish their subject, not
only by depriving her of very much respect and affection she
would otherwise have, but by making her insensible of that
love and esteem that really does surround her.
Carolyn at length rang for her woman. And after some
little delay she came in, evidently just aroused up out of her

S

I
Ii

A~.


117

LIAJ THE CURSE OF CLIFTON. THE CURSE OF CLIFTON.

sleep, and wondering that her young mistress should sunmnion
her before sunrise. But as soon as she saw her lady, her
wonder gave way to alarm, and she exclaimed-
"My good gracious alive, Miss Carolyn! What's der
matter, honey 'i"
one arrived this morning, Aunt IDarky i~'
inquired Mis
alarm. ~ Clifton, without noticing the old woman's
No, chile, sure not! Who should ribe at dis unlikely
hour oh de morning ~ Ledst it war de doctor. Has you
sent for de doctor, honey ~ But Lord, indeed, chile, you
better lay down agin. Don't keep on standing' dere holding'
up your hair, weak as you looks, an' I'll, run an'~ see !"
"Aunt Parky, I am not ill. I have had a bad night's
rest-that's all. Go-and-"
"A bad night's res', an' like enough, honey! I had a
berry bad night's res' de night afore, me an' Old Nick took
up "long o' each oder! 'Deed chile, I was sort o' seared
an' sorter happy, 'cause I was scared! An' deed, chile,
'tween so many contradictions, I could'n onderstan' myself
and kept awake all night! Lord, honey, it's natural! We's
all alike, 'cept '115 de color, an' dat's only outside show,
skin deep. But bless you, honey, that wan't nothing' to the
'iiight dresses I'se lost since dat, with long o' cryin' babies aii'
teething' babies, an' sick chillun, an' ole man Nick comm'
home drunk ebery time ole Marse give him any holiday
money to spen' on himself! Now praise be de Lor', de cliii-
lun's all raise~ an~ married an' settl&amp; off, an' I'm a' free
'oman! An' I tell my galls how I am' gwine be bother'
long o' der chullun, now in my ole days !"
"Aunt IDarky," said Miss Clifton, feeling in no way flat-
tered by the parallel, "go and get my bath ready, and have
a cup of strong coffee brought the instant I leave it."
"Yes, 'honey-an' hadn't de baff's water better have de
air tuk 'off o' it, as yom~'se not so strong dis morning' ~"
"Yes, yes-what makes you trouble me by questions l
You ought to know what is proper to be done."
"An' so I allus does know, honey-ony when I does my
umos' properess', you doesn't alluz' see it into dat light, an'
you fines fau'rt long o' me," said the old body, as she left
the room.

'I'
V

When Miss Clifton had left her warm bath, and had par-
taken of the rich strong coffee-~.strong as the essence of
coffee, and made rich and thick by being half cream and
sugar, and~ brought to her in a tiny porcelain cup, she felt
sufficiently refreshed to be ~ible, with the assistance of her
woman, to make her morning toilet.
When she had finished dressing it was still very early, and
two hours remained before breakfast-but she left her room,
and met her father, who was an early riser, in the upper
hail.
lie came forward and kissed her. Then held both her
hands, and looked in her face, exclaiming-" What! pale,
my child ~ Oh, tnt! tnt! tut! tnt! tnt! That's all
wrong! All wrong!"
"Father! has he come yet V'
"No, no-it's quite early yet! He'll be here anon! You
should not have risen these two hours !"
"Father, IL could not sleep! I could not even lie in
bed!"
"Oh, pooh! pooh! pooh! All folly! All nonsense!
Go back and rest."
"Father, I cannot! My words to him were so wrong! so
bitter! so insulting! I feel them to have been such, and I
can never rest until I have told him so !" said Carolyn,
dropping her head upon the only bosom to which her
haughty heart could bear to confide its sorrow and its re-~
pentaiice.
"Well, so you weres wrong, very wrong! It will teach
you a lesson that will benefit you 'for the fnture.~ And for
the present it will blow over. There, there, there-if you
can't be still, go and amuse yourself by making me a nice
mint-ulep! I want it before. I go out in the fields-the
morning air on my empty stomach isn't good for ~
He then kissed Carolyn and let her go. As she left him,
he saw to hi~ surprise Frank Fairfax emerge from his chain-
her, with a portmanteau in his hand. Frank immediately set
it down, and advancing, said-
"Ah, sir! I was just about to seek you, to let you know
that, to my infinite regret, I must leave you to-day."
"To day ~ You astound me! What is up now ~ . You
mustn't go-you shan't!"
VOL. 1.-lO

116

A

( *

r


118

THE CURSE OF CLIFTON.

"Sir, I have received an order to join my regiment with.
out delay!"
"Oh-h-h, that's bad! That's bad! Devil fly away with
military life! Titat's what was always hiking away Archer
at the very time I wanted him ~nost. But no frantic hurry!
You needn't go to-day! You mustn't. Why, this is the
wedding-day, you rascal !"
"I know it, sir! iBut, to my everlasting regret, I must
forego the pleasure of being present upon that occasion. My
order is a peremptory one, to join my regin~ent instantly."
c~ Well, well! To-morrow'll do! To-rnorrow'll do! One
day cannot make so much difference !"
"My dear sir, I surely need i~ot tell you that soldiers
should be 'minute men' in their obedience. Besides, if I
do not seize the opportunity of meeting the Staunton stage
as it passes through IL- to-night, I shall have to wait
three days for the next stage. So, you see-"
"Yes, yes; I see! I am always called upon to see some-
thing I don't want to see! Ah! herecomes the mint-julep!
Did Miss Carolyn mix it V'
This was addressed to the colored boy who brought a pint
tumbler on a little waiter.
"Yez, zur," said the boy.
"Do you take julep in the morning, Frank ~ Try this.
Another julep for me, Nace !"
"No, no, I thank you, sir! I never do. I wish you
good-morning till breakfast time," said Frank, taking up his
portmanteau, and going down stairs.
Frank put his little burden down in the lower hall, and
went into the summer saloon, where he was sure, by the pre.
cement of the last thirty days, of finding Zuleime at the
window, doing her sampler-work. Yes, there she was, in her
white muslin and coral, with her jet black hair and damask
cheeks! He went and sat down by her, (after saying
"Good-morning,") and sat for some minutes in perfect
silence, watching Zuleime work the word ~Zoti~, in crimson
silk. At length-
"Whom do you love best in the world, Zuleime '?" he
asked.
"How can you ask ~ Whom does everybody love best ~-

j

119

THE CURSE OF CLIFTON.

'her nairi sell,' as the Welchman says, of course!" exclaimed
the merry maiden.
~~1lumph! Well, whom do you love the next best to
yourself
"Why, let me see," said. the girl, pausing thoughtfully,
with her needle poised in her hand; "Ii think, that next to
myself, L1ove~Zuleime Clifton best of all the world 1"
"I thought so! And I can lay my hand upon my heart,
and say, that you don't love Zuleinie Clifton ~ whit better
than I do !-no, nor half so well! I'll throw down my gage
on that, and fight it out to extremity! Come !-What have
you to say to that ~" asked the young man, with all the
earnestness in his face and manner that his light words
wanted-" say, speak! What do you say to that ~"
"Why, that you are as foolish as Zuleime herself, in
loving such a little, 0ut~of~the-way baggage, that is neither
woman nor child, nor good nor bad, nor any thing else in
particular."
"Well, at any rate, we both agree in loving and worship-
ing Zuleime, however we may differ in our opinion of her-.
1, for instance, thinking her a beautiful, joyous, delightful
girl. So, it's settled, i~~'t it ~"
"What is settled 'i"
"Oh, you know, you tease !"
"I know the weather is settled, if you mean that !"
" Pooh ~
"I don't know that the naval trouble with Great Britain
is settled, if you mean that!"
"Pooh, pooh!"
"I know that the marriage dower of thirty thousand dol-
lars is settled upon Carolyn, if you mean that !"
"Pooh, pooh, pooh !"
"Well, I shall not try to guess again, lest you should say,
'Pooh, pooh, pooh, pooh !'-four times !"
"Zuleime !" said the young man, earnestly, "I think,
without presumption, I may say that I know your disposition
towards me. Zuleime, I wish that we should pass all our
lives together, side by side! I would like to open my heart
and bid you look into it and read for yourself. I hate to
say, 'I love you,' (though if you could look into my heart!)
Oh, that phrase, 'I love you,' Zuleinie, is so fallen, is a~

'4
NI
2~
I
$1

.1

1


9
120

THE CURSE OF CLIFTON.

THE CURSE OF CLIFTON.

121

prostituted, so degraded from its high meaning-' I love you'
so often means 'I need your wealth,' 'need your family in.
fluence,' 'I desire your delightful beauty!' Oh, Zulejine,
dearest girl, how then shall I express my true, sincere, earn-
est devotion to you ~"
"You needn't-I know you like me, Frank," nrnrlnured
Zuleime, very low. And then she added, lower still-" IBut
I am nothing but a wild school girl, and, seriously, Ii fear it
isn't right for me to listen to such words for years to come
* yet. And I fear father might not like it, only that he likes
you so very well."
And Zuleime bent over her sampler, diligently, commenc-
ing the next word, 1$o~je, in azure silk.
"I know it, Zuleime! Dear, candid girl, I know it all-.-
all the seeming error! But, Zuleime, I am going away to-
* day," (she looked up in surprise,) "and I may be gone for
several years. When I come back I shall certainly return
a captain, if not probably a major, or possibly a colonel.
Before I go, I wish to have a fair understanding with your-
self and your father, so that I may go away with some feel-
ing of security. I want you both to promise that when I
return you will give me your hand."
"You may speak to father, Frank. But I tell you frankly
now, what I wish you had heard before. It is this :-that I
have been promised to my grim cousin, Major Cabell, ever
since I can remember anything. And till you came, I have
always, whenever 1 have anticipated the future at all, looked
forward to being his hum-drum wife, and living inagrini
three-story red brick, in a row, and opposite another row of
stiff, prison-like red brick houses, each one of which, taken
singly, is more dreary than all the rest. I didn't like the
prospect, Frank; but I thought it was my fate, and the best
father could do for me, and so I thought of no other possi-
bility but the grim red brick house in the ~iity and Major
Cabell. Besides, father is so good a father, and so fond and
indulgent, that it seemed too wicked to think of disappoint-
ing his gentle wishes, that never take the form of commands.
And so, Frank, although whenever I would think of the
grim brick house, with tall dark chambers, and the narrow,
stony, distracting street before it, and Major Cabell, my
heart would sink very heavy, and I would think, young as I

II
I
V
V
[
)
I
f

was, that there was scarcely any, hope for me at all-yet, I
would recollect my dear good father wished it, and I would
cluck up my spirits and feel blithe ,as a bird again. It was
all understood at the school where I am getting finished, as
they call it. And father left word that Major Cabell should
be admitted to visit me. So when I am there he comes to
~jgjt me frequently, and takes me out riding, or driving, and
to concerts. And the girls'whisper together, and say that I
am engaged
~ Pardon me, Zuleime! Par-
don me, dear girl! But, I am giddy~indeed, I am ill!
Illave you yourself promised to marry him V'
"No, surely not; and that is the reason why I consider
myself in some sort free-but of my duty to my good father.
No, he has never even asked me. lie considers my father's
promise quite sufficient, and our marriage quite a matter of
course. And so I used to consider it, too. These things
are often done, Frank. These betrothals, I mean. Any
one might suppose the custom 0~50lete~~having died in the
dark ages. It is not. It prevails here to a considerable ex-
tent. It is done to keep family property together, or family
interest closely cemented. And, Frank, he has never courted
me yet. You see he considers me a child 5till. And so I
am, compared to him, in years. And so I should be, in all
things, a child, but that the shadow of that grim brick house
is always falling on my heart !"
"And yet, with all this, you ar~ a very, very merry
maiden ~'
"Yes, so I am. I try to be!. I keep a din up in my
head to prevent me hearing what my heart wants to say.
Goodness! I can do nothing for the poor thing, you know,
andwhat's the use of stopping to listen to its cry ~-that
would only encourage it to complain the more. Don't look
so sorry, Frank! It is not all effort! It could not be, you
know. I'm jiaturally of a glad, elastic temper; and but for
this drawback, Heaven knows what I should be! the wildest,
maddest, most liarem-scarem, most heels~over-head, skip-
over-the-moon madcap that ever turned a quiet home topsy-
turvy, and drove a quiet family to distraction! The Bible
says,-' God loveth whom lie ehasteneth, and scourgeth
every son (and daughter) whom He receiveth.' Then I think,
1o~

PA


THE CURSE OF CLIFTON.

(I do think, sometimes, young and volatile as I am,) 'I think
that every one whom God redeems has some sorrow, and that
that sorrow is always the~precise one fitted to cure their be-
setting sin! As the proud are still kept down by poverty
and oppression, the vain lose their charms, or the power of
enhancing them, etc., etc., etc., among all the erring wh9nu
God designs to set right. And I, who am naturally so wild
and thoughtless, must be sobered and made thoughtful by
the prospect of that prison before me !"
"Zuleime, does this man love you ?"
"Frank, if I say he does not hate me, it is the extent of
all favorable things I can say about the state of his mind
towards me. No, he does not love me. Ibis entirely a be-
trothal of convenience. Sometimes I look forward to my
future life in that great unknown city, which I should dislike
under any circumstances, and especially to pass my whole
life in, with one I do not like, and who does not like me, and
I wonder how I shall contrive to exist,-I, who love to be
in the country, on this dear old homestead, with my fond old
father and my tender old nurse, and the colored folks who
love me so well,-and where I have so many occupations,..-.
and, oh, my soul and body! I think how shall I ever put
life through in that packed up city! Sometimes I think-.
for I must have something to occupy my whole soul with-..
that I will be very gay and worldly, and dress, and visit, and
give balls, and go to 1411s, and theatres; but then again I
reflect that it would be wicked to spend. all one's time and
attention upon such things. And then I think I shall try to
grow serious enough to join a* church, and that I will be a
leading member, and a Sunday School teacher, and a patron-
ess of the Bible Society, and of the Missionary Society, and
a getter-up of new kinds 'of benevolent associations, and
Porcas circles, and be a Committee woman, and a distributor
of tracts, and a collector of subscriptions, etc. One must
do something to fill up the long, long days; one must live
somehow, and, upon the whole, I thought this latter plan
might do, as it would occupy me entirely, and is not so
wicked as the other."
"Ab, I don't know that, Zuleime! But, my dearest girl,
cease all these troubled thoughts about the futum &amp;~, unnatural
to Jyour age, and unwholesome to yourself! ~f;iis whole

TILE CURSE 01? CLIFTON.

123

cloud must be swept away like a cobweb. lie doesn't love
you. You don't love him. He has. never asked you to
marry him. You have never promised to do so. It is a
mere betrothal of convenience, made by the parents of both
for the purpose of keeping family property together, and
j,01nenting family interests. Oh, it is all wrong! And there
is thingg in it! IL will speak to your father. I will enter
the 'lists with this Major Cabell, as a competitor for your
hand. In all worldly circumstances, which are ever of the
greatest value in a 'Clifton's estimation-ifl family, wealth
and social position, I am his peer~ Besides, II wear my lady's
favor, which he does not! I will go to your father now and
tell him as much, shall I, Zuleixue ~"
The young lady was busy threading her needle with golden
yellow silk, and did not answer. lie repeated the question.
"Yes," murmured Zuleime, beginning to~ embroider the
last word of the frio,~..ft1itIbin sunbeam silk. No time
was to be lost. Itie raised her hand to his lips, and darted
out upon the lawn to meet old Mr. Clifton, whom he saw ap-
proaching the house.
"My dear sir !" exclaimed Mr. Fairfax, rather excitedly,
"I have something of the utmost importance to say to you!
Will you take a turn .with me
"My dear sir !" repeated the old gentleman~ smiling,
"breakfast is ready! Let's go on to the house !"
"But my dear sir! my business .i~ urgent !"
"My very dear ~sir! the coffee is getting cold !" said the
old man, laughing at Frank's excitement.
"Mr. Clifton," said the young man, gravely and sadly,
~'immediately after hm.eakfast Iii must leave here. This, then,
is the only opportunity I have or shall have of 00~municating
to you what is on my heart to* say-and it really is on my
heart."
"Say on then, my dear boy! say on !" exclaimed the
benevolent old gentleman. But Frank, now that he had got
leave to speak, was struck dumb. He thought it was per-
fectly easy and simple to ask for Zuleime, but now the re-
quest, like Macbeth's amen, stuck in his throat. "Come,"
said the old gentleman~ running his fat arm through Frank's
slender one, "give me the support of your arm, for I am not
so young and active as you are, and let us take a little walk

I

r ~

A

K

122


4?'
'I'
4
A
St

THE CURSE OF CLIFTON6

up the path towards Hardbargaiu. Perhaps we may meet
Archer, and bring him back with us to breakfast, lie is not
at the house, is he ?"
"No, sir," said Frank, glad to recover the use of his
tongue.
"We expect him here to 'breakfast. We shall probably
meet, him. Come! Well, nOw! what is it'?" he asked
they turned their backs on the house.          *,
Frank had plucked up his courage, and now spoke to 'the
purpose.
"Mr. Clifton, as I am going away immediately after break.
fast, and as I am to be absent for an indefinite length of time,
I wish before I leave to tell you that which lies upon my
heart-" here he paused a little time to collect his thoughts
and fine words, while the old gentleman attended with an
encouraging expression of countenance. Frank resumed....
"Mr. Clifton, I love your daughter Zuleime. And I have
come to beg your sanction to our engagement !" As the old
man only said, "Whew-w-w-w !" Frank continued.~....c~ You
know my rank in the army, and my prospect of promotion.
You are acquainted with my family, and are aware of their
interest and influence in the country. Allow me farther to
add, that my own private. fortune amounts to fifty thousand
dollars. And I will settle thirty thousand on my bride.
Besides which-"
"Stay, stay--my dear fellow, stay !" interrupted the old
man, with a troubled look. "This is all nonsense, now!
Zuleime is a child.' And you have not known her more than
six weeks. Love Zuleime! Pooh, pooh! You young men
are so flighty and fickle in your fancies'! You get frantic
about every flew face you see, and think yourselves in love!
Pooh, pooh! Now, Frank, my boy, come! let's hear no
more of it! It's all nonsense! You young officers are always
in love, or fancying yourselves so! I dare say, you have
been in love with all the daughters of all your commanders,
and Heaven forefend, a little Platonically smitten with all
their wives, too! Come, I know you! Nonsense! Let's
hear no more of it !"
"Mr. Clifton, I am no trifler in matters of the affections.
I never ki~sve been. I never siuzlZ be, I hope! And when I
tell you, upon my sacred honor, that never in my life have I

THE CURSE OF CLIFTON.

125

~flirted,' as it is called, with a woman~that never in my life
have I either loved or addressed the language of love to a
woman~excePt Zuleime-you will believe me
~~Oh~h-h4&amp;!" exclaimed the old gentlemafl~ with an ex-
ceedingly bored look. "It's all folly, all nonsense, I tell
you! A. sudden fancy! Nothing more! Let's drop the subject."
"1~Ir. Clifton," said the young man, gravely and sorrowfully,
for he saw that the old gentleman rather evaded than denied
or accepted hiss suit, "I have never, in my 'whole life, been
addicted to taking sudden and evanescent fancies, as you
might judge, from what I told you! And when I tell you
that I love your daughter Zuleime, I mean that I love her
sincerely and earnestly, with my whole heart and soul-and
that I shall love her to the last hour of my life !"
"Bah! bah! It's all tom..foolerI, I tell you! You get
yourself shut up in a country house with a pretty girl, and
of course you fall in love with her! To be sure! What else
could you do'? It's expected of you! You'd disappoint us if
you didn't! But it is such love as will not outlast your
journey to your regiment."
"It will outlast my life! I know it will! I feel it '~iill !"
said Frank, earnestly, vehemently.
"Tah! tah' tah 1-you'll fall desperately in love with the
first pretty squaw of the friendly tribes who shall come to
bring moccasins to your frontier fort !"
"Oh, God !" groaned the young man, bitterly, dropping
his face into his hands. "There is no, way of making a
serious impression upon you, and I am going away in two
hours 1" His tone and manner so affected the reiilly impres-
sible and benevolent old gentleman, that he half embraced
him with his fat arm, saying-
"Now don't, Frank! Do be a good boy! Don't! Do!
It's all folly now! Indeed it is!' Do! Don't! Now con-
sider-how many pretty girls there are in the world! Don't,
Frank! A great deal prettier than my girl. Never fret
about her. Do, Frank. Besides, she's so young! A mere
school-girl. Only fifteen last Monday. Pooh, pooh! Not
to be thought of, you know Far too young !"
"Sir, I can wait. I only wish your sanction to our engage-
ment. I can wait three or four years, if necessary, or any
length of time at all, if I may hope to get her at last !"

~4'"'~,

I

124

4


x

TIlE CURSE OF CLIFTON.

"She is too young, I tell. you, Frank! Too young to
know her own mind. Only fifteen. 2Ridiculous !"
"But, sir, I have heard of gentlemen older and Thore
settled than myself who have actually married girls of fifteen.
I only ask an engagement !"
"You mean me, you dog! I know you do! I see you do!
Bat, Frank, seriously and solemnly, I wouldn't do so again!
And for the very reason that I committed that egregious8
folly, that bitter wrong against a young girl, I will not suffer
any one else to do the same wrong to my child, if I can
it!"            -                                help
"No, Mr. Clifton-..-pardon me, but are you not about to
commit a more grievous wrong to your own lovely, gen;le
child ~ Have you not ~ Parcton me! Pardon me! But have
you not promised her hand where she cannot give her heart ~"
"No! Heaven forbid! I promised her to Charley Cabell.
She used to like him very well. I did the best I could for her
happiness. I have secured it-~unless~unless......oh my God,
Frank !" suddenly exclaimed the old man, in his turn ex-
tremely agitated, and wiping the perspiration from his brow,
"I hope-...I trust in God you haven't entrapped her affec-
tions! Frank! Frank! She is engaged to Major Cabell!
I didn't tell you so when you first asked me for her, because
-because..-.for many reasons-..." (wiping the streaming per-
spiration from his brow) "it is-it is-disagreeable to re-
member and to talk about it! But-but-....she is engaged to
Major Cabell, and~-and for many reasons~family reasons-..
it is necessary that the engagement should be fulfilled!
Unless~unless........some inevitable, insurmounta~g~ obstacle
was to arise and prevent it! Frank! Frank! I am in a
great strait! a dire, doleful strait! but.-but.......sooner than
make my girl unhappy, or stand in the way of~ her perfect
happiness, I wonld-.-I would-I would die in a jail! Where
I may die 1 Where I may die !" NoThing Could exceed the
force of the emotion that agitated, the old man, shaking his
huge form, and choking up his utterance.
Mr. Fairfax looked at .him with mingled astonishment,
wonder and compassion.
"Boy~boyyou haven't entrapped my der~r child's
heart ~" again inquired the old gentleman, trembling with
excess of feeling.

c~Th~rapped is not exactly the word, sir," said Frank,
proudlY and inouruftilly. "I learned to love her, and I
Won her love without designing to do either !"
"Lost! Lost!" cried Mr. Clifton, dropping his head upon
his bosom. lie walked on in silence so responding, that
Fairfax could not bring himself to intrude upon it. They
went on until they suddenly met .Major Cabell himself coming
down the hill, apparently from llardbargain.
The 1~Iajor was walking slowly, with his head do~n, and
twirling around his finger a topaz necklace. As soon as he
perceived Messrs. Clifton and Fairfax, his forehead flushed,
and he hastily crammed the necklace into his vest pocket.
Fiank thought the whole thing strange, but, hut stranger
still was the eonduetthe metamorphosisthe transfigura-
tion of Mr. Clifton, who, upon observing the Major, instantly
put a violent constraint upon himself, and became the broad-
faced, rosy, smiling, blue-eyed, debonair old gentleman, so
lavish in the display of his fine teeth, and hearty, cordial
words and smiles. Frank was provoked that their conversa
tion was so completely arrested.
"Ah, good morning," said Mr. Clifton, addressing the
Nlajor. "B9en tQ J~ardbargain this morning so early ~ How
are all the folks up there ~ See, Archer ~ Why didn't he
walk with you ~ Eh ~ Expected him !"
"Ii have not been to ~ardbargain, sir," replied the Major,
rather morosely.
"Been out taking a morning stroll then, eh I Fine appe-
tite for breakfast, no doubt. And it is waiting for us, too.
Come, Frank, let's turn about."
They did so. Frank now noticed for the first time that
the manner of the old gentleman was 0onciliating, while that
of the Major was surly.
They soon reached the house, and the breakfast-room,
where the ladies were awaiting their arrival.
As they entered, the countenance of Carolyn Clifton was
flushed and~eager. But when they'had all got in, and were
seated at the table, the color died out of her face, leaving
her pale as marble. She merely trifled with her breakfast,
pretending to eat, but no morsel passed .her lips. When
breakfast was over, and the company dispersed about the

126            TEE CURSE OF CLIFTON.                                                            127

S

(
I
f 0

126

127


'it
r
(
~4
I

TIlE CURSE OF CLWTON.

room, Carolyn almost reeled past her father in going out, and
muttered with pale lips-" Father! Not come yet ?"
"Never mind! Never mind, my dear! II will ride up t~
Hardbargain and fetch him."
"Not for the universe, father! if he never comes !" re.
plied the determined girl, plucking up her spirit, and sweep.
nig proudly past and going into the piazza, where she sat,
hy-the-bye, with her eyes strained up the mountain-path by
which he ought to come.
Frank got no opportunity of speaking alone with Zuleinie.
Old Mr. Clifton met him, however, when he came in from
looking after his horse, and said, kindly patting him on the
shoulder-
"Indeed, my dear boy, I don't see the least necessity for
your leaving us until after dinner. The stage coach doesn't
pass through I till eight o'clock at night, and five'or
six hours is ample time in which to reach ther~ !"
"Yes, sir! I grant it, but I have to go thi&amp; morning to
ilardbargamn to take leave of Mrs. Clifton, and of 'my friend
Archer, if, indeed, the latter is not ordered on the same duty
as myself, which, upon Miss Clifton's account, I am inclined:
to fear !"
"Oh! Are you going to ride to Hardbargain ~ Then,
perhaps, you will be pleased to learn that Zuleime is going
there this morning, also, to assist Mrs. Clifton in putting the
last finishing touches to her dress for this evening. And you
can escort her!" said Georgia, smoothly gliding between them,
and laying her head and hand with child-like freedom and
affection upon the old man's shoulder.
"Oh! I shall be very happy !" said Frank, "really happy
-nay, overjoyed, intoxicated, with the prospect of an unin-
terrupted, farewell l~te-~-t~te with Zuleime."
Old Mr. Clifton looked rather disappointed,, but he was
not of a very combative disposition....-especially had he no in-
clination to contradict Georgia. Besides, he at once reflected
that there was really no danger. They couldn't be married
in the neighborhood,. because they could get no license, and
no clergyman dare marry them without one. And it was not
probable, or even possible, that Frank would elope with his
daughter on the very eve of joining his regiment for a distant
and dangerous service. In truth, he felt it was folly to

129

THE CURSE OF CLIFTON.

cherish a misgiving. And yet he had misgivings, nor could
he banish them-the utmost* extent of his self-control was-
not to act upon them-not to forbid their riding together.
While Zuleime was putting on her hat and riding habit,
Frank got the ear of the old gentleman once more, and for
the last time. The old man had sunk into his broad-
bottomed flag chair in the hall, with his thick gold-headed
~tjck between his knees, and his two hands and his chin rest~-'
ing upon it, when Frank stood before him with folded arms
and head dropped upon his breast, and said-
"Mr. Clifton~~Once more, and for the last time, I ask you,
and I implore you to answer me candidly. Is there any pos-
sibility that, under any change of circumstances, at any future
time, I may hope for your consent to my union with Zn-
leime V'
The earnestness, deepening almost into solemnity, of the
young man's manner and words, impressed Mr. Clifton very
deeply, but he replied-" Mr. Fairfax, it is best to speak the
plain,.h~rsh, cutting truth, though that truth is the axe laid
to the root of all your hopes of Zuleime. No. Yet I regret
~. this, Frank! You do not know how much! But you must
forget her! I hope you will soon do so! I know you must!"
Frank shook his head in despairing negation. And farther
colloquy was arrested by the coming down of Zuleime equip-
ped for her ride.
"Come here, my daughter! Now you must be sure to be
back by dinner tim~, do you hear 'P'
"Certainly, sir!"
"Promise me."
"Of course I do."
"Upon your honor!" said the old man, seriously.
"Upon my honor, sir, I will return by dinner time! But
what makes you so emphatic about it, dear father V'
"A notion of mine, my child! but I have your promise !"
"Of course you have, sir !" said Zuleime, drawing on her
gloves.
Mr. Fairfax was taking leave of Mrs. Clifton. Presently
he turned to bid adieu to Mr. Clifton.
The old gentleman shook his hand warmly, wishing him
all the success he desired, and affecting to laugh and jest,
while he exacted a like promise ffom Fairfax, namely, that
VOL. 1.-Il

1a

128

r

y~, ~
'jy
~ 1

i


130             THE CURSE OF CLIFTON.
- he should take his girl to Hardbargain, and leave her There
to return by dinner time.
Frank gave his word very cheerfully. The young couple
then mounted, and rode away. The old man watched them
from the piazza in sorrowful love, murmuring-
"~'od bless them. I wish they could be married. Poor
things. If they do love each other so much, or if they think
they do, which is quite as bad while it lasts-.why, it is but
kind to let them have this last little parting comfort of a ride
together! And it was well, too-" chuckled the old gentle-
man~-" to tie them up with promises, so that they can't rim
away, which they might else be tempted to do in their part-
ing hour. But they will neither of them ever break their
word, and I shall have her hack safe by dinner time. For
it is utterly impossible for thefri to get married without a
license, and it is quite 'impracticable to get a license this side
of L ,or to ride to L between this and noon,
much less to ride thither and return here in time for dinner!.
Ah! I have them there! And yet, I am sorry for them, too!
Poor things !"
All this time Carolyn Clifton had sat like one dead, only
with her eyes strained up the mountain bridal-path.
In the meantime, Frank and. ~uleime pursued their ride.
As soon as they were out of sight and hearing of a band of
field laborers, employed in cutting grass, and had entered the
shady mountain path, Frank said- -
"Well, Zuleime, my dearest girl, I spoke to your father-"
-" And his answer--I almost dread to hear it-yet I
know what it was, too."
Frank nodded his head, and they rode on in silence for
some minutes, 'broken at last by Frank, who suddenly ex-
claimed-
"Zuleime! you bear this so well !"
"Frank, you know this is no new thing to me; I have
known it, and been prepared for it all along!" replied the
girl, with a look of. resignation.
"Oh, Zuleime! is there no way to prevent it 'f"
"None that I know of, Frank !"
"Zuleime! 'P was in every way his equal-.-~why, when that
is the case, and when I was supported by your voice, too-
why was I rejected '?"

4',
THE CU1~SE OF CLIFTON.           131

The maiden shook her head.
"Zuleime, when is this hideous marriage expected to como~
off-do you knowP'
"Whenever Major Cabell chooses to demand my hand,
I believe !"
"Really! Upon my word He is a personage of tre-
mendous importance! Whenever HE chooses to demand your
hand!! Zuleime! that is passing strange! This a~air
seems then to rest entirely with Major Cabell! ! !"
"Yes, it does entirely."
"Bless his Majesty. Zuleime, what hold has that man on
your father ?"
Zuleime shook her black ringlets mournfully, but did not
reply.
"Do you know, my dear girl, that I am impressed with
the idea that your father does not at heart wish to give you
to Major Cabell, but rather yields to a strange power the
man holds over him ~"
"At times I have thought so, 'too. But then my dear
father at other times really seenis so set upon the marriage,
that the thought has been driven out of my head again! I
do not know what to think! But what I do know is, that II
will never willingly do anything to give my dear father
pain!"
"My dearest girl, do you know that I believe, from my
soul, that your marriage with Major Cabell will give your
father more pain than any other circumstance could s?"
The young girl looked up in surprise.
"Zuleime! he told me to-day, that though he had promis-
ed you to Major Cabell, he would rather die than see you un-
happy,, or stand in the way of your perfect happiness !"
"My dear father! My dear, gentle father! My fond,
old father !" exclaimed Zulei~ne, with the bright tears rolling
on her damask cheeks, like dew on the red rose. "My kind,
generous father! He shall never know that I am unhappy!
And neither shall I be unhappy when pleasing him !"
"My dear, excellent girl! listen to me! You shall not
be unhappy any way! Do you suppose, Zuleime, that' I could
ride by your side so cheerfully, if I thought you were going
to marry that man, on whom your father no more wishes to
bestow you, than he wishes to send you to perdition ~ Listen,


132             2~~E CURSE OF CLIFT&amp;K.
my darling girl! When your father told me what I have
repeated to you, he went on to say, that for certain family
reasons, it was incumbent on him to fulfill his promise, and to
bestow your hand upon Major Cabell, unless some insurmount..
able obstacle should interpose to arrest the union! Zuleitne!
a flood of light broke on me then I and I felt and knew that
the old man would yield his darling daughter to th~ myste..
rious power exercised over him by Major (Yabell, rather than
bestow her with esteem and affection! Zuleime! without
vanity, I think that he loves me better, and would prefer me
for a son-in-law, if he were free to choose. I think, indeed
I do, that he would hail with secret joy "an in~urmountable
obstacle," which would prevent the marriage, and not im-
plicate him in any manner. I think that was what he meant
when he said what he did. Still, I am convinced that the
words slipped from him unintentionally. I am certain he
did not mean to give me the hint, which nevertheless, I take,
,for he is a man of' strict honor, I knQw, and would never
tamper -with the spirit of a promise any more than he would
break' the words I"
"Oh! no, he never would, indeed !"
"'-And again, my dearest girl, when I asked him just be..
fore we came away, whether, at any future time, under any
possible contingency, I might hope to obtain his consent to
our union, he assured me that I might not, and earnestly en-
-treated me to forget you! That further convinced me that
he bad no design in giving me the hint upon which I am
about to aet.-do you hear me, dearest Zuleime ?"
Zuleime did not, or at least did not appear to. -
"-Zuleime, my darling, m~y love," said Frank, dismount-
ing in the path, and lifting her from her saddle, "I am about
to raise 'an insurmountable obstacle' to your marriage with
the Major !"
~uleime turned -deadly pale with surprise and terror, and
;glanced wildly around, while she fell upon his arm and seemed
about to' faint.
"' Why, Zuleime! Come, come. What is the matter?
Don't be afraid! What, afraid of me, of Frank, your play-
mate? Why, look up in my face and see! Come, lift up
-your head! I want to talk to you! There! there! Why,

THE OUflSE OF CLIFTON.           183
what arc you afraid of~ I will take no step without your
consent, sweet Zuleime !"
The infinite tenderness of his words, tones and manner,
reassured the frightened girl, and she raised her face, now
suffused with blushes. He supported her with his arm
around her waist, while he pointed down into a narrow glen
to the right, and said-
There! Look there, Zuleime. Do you see that little
stone house-.---there in the bottom of the glen-there by the
spring-but so much like the rocks, near it, and so deep in
the shade, as hardly to be distinguishable! IDe you see it V'
"Yes," breathed the maiden, very low:
"Do you know who lives there 3"
~ No."
"A good old man! A saintly old man! A poor Baptist
missionary preacher, who lives in that hut quite alone, and
preaches there every Sunday to an humble congregation,
composed of poor mountaineers and negroes. 1911e has d&amp;.
voted his life to labor among the mountaifl' people, and has
done wonders in reforming them! Is it possible that you,
living in the neighborhood, knew nothing of-him!"
"Oh, yes! I have heard a great deal about Mr. Saunders,
only I did not know where exactly his hat was. There are
so many of them, you know !" said the girl,' somewhat re-
covered, and much interested.
"My dearest Zuleime! we will go down to that hut! 'I
see by the smoke, that so gracefully curls,' that the old man
is at home. We will tell him the whole story, as far as we
know it, and get him to raise that required insurmountable
obstacle ~
"Oh! Frank!" exclaimed Zuleime, shocked, delighted,
terrified, overjoyed.
"But, my dearest Zuleime! my dearest love! I have
recorded an oath in Heaven, to save you 'from that marriage
with Cabell! And I will never leave you until you are my
wife. If you refuse NOW, I will throw up my commission in
the army, and live there in that hut with the old parson,
until you do consent !"
~C But, my father, Frank! My dear father!"
"II~earest girl, he will be glad !" Here Frank went over
the whole story again, and added-" And Zuleime, have you
11*


~T~E OUI~5~ OCLI~T9~.
no love, no pity left from your father to bestow upon the
poor soldier who loves you so, and who is going out to the
Indian frontier, where he may lose his scalp, or be burned
alive, or eaten raw within a month by the red-skins ~ Will
you refuse his last prayer?" ete,, etc., etc. Over and over
am, fervently, earnestly, imploringly, despairingly he re~
pleated the argument and the prayer, while he held the maiden
" half willing, Ealf~ afraid." "8he who hesitates is lost," it
iB said.
Zuleime ;hesitated a long time, and, consequently, was lost
to all eternity. What could she oppose, indeed, to what
seemed so right and, reasonable? With a deep sigh she
yielded at last. There was no path that way down into the
glen, and .the descent was deep and precipitous, and over-
grown with stunted cedar, pine and thorn bu~hes. So,
Romeo and Juliet began to chamber down, by foot-holds of
jagged rooks, and fist-holds of thorn hushes, to the great
risk of wounded hands and torn pants and petticoats. And
so it was in rather a disordered state of attire, as well as in
~an e~oited state of mind, that they at last arrived before the
door of Father Lawrence's cell, and rapped. While they
~waited for the old man to appear, Frank, very much to the
surprise of ~uleiine, drew from his vest pocket a license-a
regular. bouz fide license, signed by the clerk of R
county, and sealed with the county seal. Resting his foot
~upon the door-step, he took off his hat, turned it down on his
knee, laid the license upon its top, and drawing from his
other pocket a ~travelling pen and ink case, proceeded to
write the names of Erancis RuI~land Fairfax and Zulejine
]2~ovilliers Clifton in the blank spaces.
"You lool~Isurprised, my dearest girl," said he, as he re-
turi~ed the pen and ink case to his pocket. "You wonder
hoW I came L~y this license? I will tell you. I have it by
a stroke of the rarest good fortune. You know, being
groemsinan, I was entrusted with the duty of riding to
1~-~-----~--, and procuring the marriagee license for Archer and
your sister. W~dl! when I arrived at the clerk's office, by
the strangest caprice of memory, I entirely forgot Miss
Clifton's middle name, so I got the clerk to give me one
license filled out with the names of Carolyn Clif~on and
4rohei~ Clifton, and then knowing how extremely punctilious

THE CURSE OF CLIFTOif.

135

you all' are here, in this' county, I procured another license
regularly signed and sealed, but leaving blank spaces for the
proper names of the parties! There, darling! that is the
wanner in which I came 1~y it! Now, this blank one I fill
up with our names, which I really think look quite as pretty
as the others would! As for Clifton and your sister, if they
want a license, they will have to put up with the first, which I
will hand to Archer as soon as we get to flardbargain. Bless
my soul! what has become of that old man?" he exclaimed~
rapping loudly, then trying the door and. pushing it open.
The house was empty. Frank looked dismally disappointed,
but Zuleime plucked him by the sleeve, and whispered, hur-
riedly-
"Here he comes-behind you !'~
And he turned to see the old preacher coming from the
spring, bending under the light weight of a small pail of
water. Frank immediately went to him, greeted him respect-
fully, and took from his hand the pail, and carrying it,
walked by ~is side, till they reached the house. Lieutenant
Fairfax then introduced himself by name and station, and
presented *IMIiss Zuleinie Clifton. The old man bowed and
offered his hand, with a courtly grace, in strange contrast to
his rude garb and rough habitation. He invited them to
come in an~ sit d0wn. And when they ~had entered, and
Zuleime was seated, Frank took the old man aside, commu-
nicated the object of their call, and produced his license.
The old man glanced from the earnest countenance of Frank
to the blushing, downcast face of Zuleime, shook his bald
head, and looked very grave.
Frank drew him off to the farthest corner of the little hut,
made him sit down on the foot of his bed, seated himself by
his side, and in a fervid, earnest,, eloquent manner, told him
their little story.
Many times the old man shook his thin, gray locks. They
were not good things-these secret marriages-they never
prospered. Marriage should be open as day-with the
blessing of God-with the blessing of parents-with the
sympathy of friends-with the good wishes of acquaintances
to hallow and prosper the union~
"Oh!" said Frank, but this was an extraordinary occa-
sion, the father was really at heart not opposed to this mar-

I
.~
V
'1
4
V.


180

T1U~ CURSfl or OLIFTON.

riage, but circumstances compelled him to withhold his open
consent-he himself, (Frank,) was about to depart on a long
journey, and merely wished to secure his bride against a
forced marriage of convenience during his absence. In short,
Frank recommended the argument, and told it all over from
beginning to end.
Still the old man shook his bald head and demurred~
Frank began the story over again, recited the whole of it,
with many additions and improvements.
To no purpose.-...the old man was obdurate. Frank, then,
half angrily, arose and said-
"Come Zuleime! We must go on to the frontier together,
and find somebody to marry us on the route, and let Mr.
Saunders here be responsible for all trouble that may ~ensue,
since with the license before him, he refuses to unite us."
At this, Zuleime burst into tears and wept heartily.
The old preacher dropped his head upon his breast in trou-
bled thought for some moments, and, whetherr the arguments
of Frank had after all produced some effect, or whether he
feared to encounter the responsibility of sending this wild
young couple on their way unman ."' or whether he was
moved to pity by the tears of Zulcime, or whether, as is
more probable, all these considerations actuated him, I know
not; but ho slowly rose to his feet, uncovered his head, and
lifted up his eyes in silent prayer awhile, then bade the
young pair stand up, for that he would marry them.
Frank clasped the hand of Zuleinie, and led her forward.
And in less than fifteen minutes more, by the magic of a few
words, the youth and maiden were man and wife. And whiP
Mrs. Fairfax, with trembling white fingers, was tying her
hat, Mr. Fairfimx would have emptied the whole contents of
his purse in the minister's. hands,~-but, though that moneys
might have supplied the poor old preached~ with many neces-
saries for which he really suffered, and made him very com-
fortable for a long time, yet he turned away his head, and
put it away from him, saying-
"No, young man, I cannot take your gold; I may have
erred in what J have done, but I did not do it for money."
"But you always take a fee, do you not i",
"From others I do-not 'from you. It would not be
blessed."

THI~ CURSI~ O1~' OLIFT0~.

187

The boyish brow of Frank clouded and darkened, but it
cleared again instantly as he turned towards his bride.
They were about to bid the old minister adieu, when be
took a hand of each, and joining them again, held them in
his own, while he said-
"Children, if this thoughtless act bring you into much
trouble, in the long, weary years of trial and suffering that
may result from it, reproach me for my share in the rash
deed as much as you please, but,-" be paused and looked
solemnly from one to the other,-" never, as you value love,
and fidelity, and peaCe,-never~ as you value the favor of
heaven, never reproach each other with it! So may God
forgive, and bless, and prosper you! Good-bye !"
The young bride and groom had bowed their heads during
this benediction, and at its close responded with a silent,
he~xtf'elt amen. They then left the cabin.
If the minister of God grievously erred in performing this
secret marriage. ceren~ny, he was soon called to account for
it; the old man died that night.
As Mr. and Mrs. Fairfamr left the cabin, they perceived
Kate Kavanagh, on her little rough-coated mountain pony,
coming straight down into the glen-her sure-footed little
animal treading with perfect security the precipitous descent
down which they had been 'obliged to clamber. Kate was
looking very pale and care-worn, so that her ponderous
abutting forehead, in its pallor, reminded Frank of a bare-
bleached cliff. And, indeed, he thought that Kate's face
looked more like that of an anxious politician, with the af-
fairs of a nation on his shoulders, than of a grieved girl.
But this was the fault of her marked features. But little
time or thought had Mr. Fairfax to bestow upon the moun-
tain-girl; so as soon as he caught sight of her, he turned in
'another direction, to avoid being recognized, saying-
"By all that's fatal, my dearest love, we were near being
detected! And by all that's fortunate, we have escaped!
Come, this way, we will take a stroll down the glen and
into the forest for a little while, until this girl is clear of the
way.~~
"Oh, but it will delay us so much, I shall not have time
to go to Rardbargain, ~ud assist Aunt Clifton, and get back
home to dinner, as I promised 1',

AK

r
LI


18

TILE CURSE OF CLIFTON.

".]Jfy dear!" said Frank, reproachfully, "do you grudge
me these last few hours of your society, when we are about
to be separated so far and so long ~ Besides, you know you
are my own dear wife now. Will you refuse ~"
"No, no, I cannot! But, oh, let me return~ to father...
my dear, fond, confiding father,-...-as soon as - I promised!
Lct me keep the word of promise to his ear, if I have broken
it to his hope!" cried Zuleime, bursting into a passion of
tears.
Safe tears, and unobserved but by him who kissed them
away, for already they had entered the thicket, and were
veiled from the sight of Kate Kavanagh, who now dis..
mounted before the door of the hut, and taking from the
horns of the saddle a basket and a bundle, entered the poor
preacher's humble habitation. We will turn from the erring
pair and enter with her. None but God knew how much dis.
interested good the poor mountain..girl did in this world.
Even the minister, who loved and req~ected her, knew little
beyond the good she did for him. lie knew that she knit
flew stockings and darned old ones for him-that she took
his scanty clothing every week, and mended, and washed,
and ironed it for him-and that when she brought it back,
she would always bring him butter, cream and cheese of her
own making, and a fresh loaf of rising bread of her own
baking, and often some little rural luxury besides, as a jar
of honey or a piece of venison. And that she would stay
and clean up his house before she left, lie knew that she
was his good spirit.
As Kate entered the room, the old man came and met her,
and took the basket and the bundle from her hands and set
them down, and set a chair for her, and made her sit down
in it, while h~ said-
"My dear child! my excellent child, you do too much for'
rue! You hurt yourself, Catherine, and make me too deeply
your debtor !"
Kate waved her hand in that quick, short way peculiar to
herself, silently beseeching him to stop.
"But it is the truth, Catheri
be able to repay you ~     ne, my child!  I shall nevor
"Oh, sir! you have reversed the case! It is I who am
i~'our debtor! If I were not par4culariy your debtor for all

THE CURSE OF CLIFTON.

139

the education -mental, and moral, and religious, that I have
ever received, up to the time of my coining to Ilardbargaifl
still I should be generally your debtor, as youth is the gene-
ral debtor of age~oWiflg it all the service it can give."
Then, to change the subject, the girl laid off her straw hat,
drew off her sheep-skin home-made mittens, and arose and un-
covered her basket, saying~.~~~In5tead of a loaf of rising bread,
Mr. Saunders, I have brought you some fresh biscuits; I
thought they might be an agreeable change. There is also
a fresh print of butter, and a bottle of cream, and a beef's
tongue, boiled-T thought the last would give you an ~ppe-
tite-I think you have not had a good appetite, lately !"
And without more ado Catherine put the things away in the
cupboard, setting the bottle of cream in a bowl of water, to
keep cool, and ~4shing to herself that she had a lump of ice
to put on the old man's print of butter. Next, she unrolled
the bundle, took the old man's nicely washed and mended
clothes, and put them neatlyy away in the chest of drawers.
Then she set the empty basket aside, rolled up her sleeves,
stooped down upon the hearth, and began to make the fire,
saying-" You know I have come to dine with you to-day,
Mr. Saunders!"
"I know you have come to bring me many comforts,
and to cook my dinner, and clean np my house, and
make me very comfortable, you good girl, my dear little
Brownie ~
Catherine moved about, in her quick and quiet way-
filled and put on the kettle-for the old man would always
have his cup of tea--and set the table, placing all the little
rarities she had brought upon it. When all was ready, and
they sat down, the old man found leisure to observe that
Kate ate notl~ing, and looked pale and thoughtful.
"What is the matter, my dear Kate 'i-yoU who are always
serious; are now positively sorrowful! What is it V'
Kate, who was truth itself whenever she spoke, chose for
that reasofl to give no answer.
The old man looked more and mo1~e disturbed, and laying
down his knife and fork, said-
"Nay, hut Catherine, my dear child, there is something
the matter! I do not wish to intrude on your confidence,
but if you have any trouble that you think I may possibly

,tif
I

V

V
F


141

140

TIlE CURSE OF CLIFTON.

THE CURSE OF CLIFTON~

be able to soothe.-confide in me, as if I were your Own
father, my child."
"Dear Mr. Saunders, don't trouble your good heart about
my cloudy face. Sure and hasn't a poor girl the same right
to her smoke that a wealthy young lady has to her vapors ~"
said Kate, smiling.
The old minister did not press his question, but resumed his
knife and fork with a look of mortification that worried (lath-
erine, so that she said-.
"I will tell you, then, what troubles me. My dearest,
best friend and patron, Captain Clifton, has bidden me good-
bye, and departed for the frontier! That is bad-oh, yes!
-'-.very bad. But that is not the worst. He has gone away
very unhappy. I might as well tell you what everybody
will soon know :-his marriage is broken off! He has gone
away in anger with his promised bride; He has gone away
so wretched! Mr. Saunders, when I saw him last night,
looking so pale, and stern, and proud-and knew the haugh-
tiness and the anguish of his heart, I thought I could have
died to have restored peace and joy between him and her he
loved so strongly."
"Merciful Heaven !-those Cliftons! This is another in-
stance of their fatal subjection to passion! Do you know,
my dear child, what caused this quarrel V'
"I know nothing but this-the marriage is broken off for
the present! I do not know wherefore."
"Some jealous suspicion of one party or the other!
Those Cliftons all have Spanish blood in them, and the Span-
ish character is uppermost in their nature. They are all
haughty, reserved, jealous, stispicious."
"Ah, but 4hey are full of courage, mag1~animity and be..
nevolence," said Catherine.
"Archer Clifton is of a very jealous and suspicious nature
~-was his betrothed inclined to coquetry '~"
"Oh, I do not know, sir, but the misunderstanding did
not originate in any charge against Miss Clifton. It was
something of which Miss Clifton accused him, but of what, I
do not know i-he did not say. My dear Mr. Saunders, I
told you what troubled me, to satisfy your kind heart, and
allay your benevolent anxiety* on my account. And now
please forgive me, for beseeching you not to question me

farther upon the subject. They-the parties, I mean-are
far removed above my sphere of thought and action-and the
investigation of their motives of action, by me, seems to in..
volve a certain indelicacy-I fear even impertinence of inter-
ference," said Catherine, gently.
"Yet, far above your sphere of thought and action as you
say they are, they are not-at least one of them is not-
above your sphere of sympathy and emotion. His sorrow
affects you with sorrow
The blood rushed to Kate's brow, and she remained silent.
The old man and the maiden soon after arose from the
table. She washed up the dishes, tidied up the house, and
collected the poor preacher's soiled an4 broken clothes, and
tied them in a bundle to take away with her to wash and
mend. Then she tied on her hat, and took leave of him;
the old man calling her back, again and again, with vague,
prophetic meaning, to repeat over and over-" God bless you,
my child! God bless you !" It was his dying benediction.
A poor mountaineer, that called early the next morning
to get the poor minister to the poor to come and bury his
wife-found the old man dead.
VOL. I.-12

I,

I,,
I
4
'4I


TILE CURSE OF CLIFTON.

TILE CURSE OF CLIFTqN.

CHAPTER IX.
WOMAN'S PRIDE.
The bird when she pineth may hush her song,
Till the hour when hor heart shall again be strong;
But thou-canst. thou turn in thy woe aside,
And weep midst thy sisters? No, not for pride.
May the fiery word from thy lip find way,
When the thoughts burning in thee shall spring to-day?
May the grief that sits in thy weary breast,
Look forth from thine aspect, the revel's guest?
No! with the shaft in thy bosom born,
Thou must hide the wound in thy fear of scorn!
Thou must fold thy mantle, that i~one may see,
And mask thee whh laughter, and say thou art free!
Mus. IIEMANS.
ALL the forenoon, Carolyn Clifton sat in the same place and
in the same attitude in which we left her, affecting to read,
but ~really watching the mountain-path with heart-sickening
anxiety. Every distant sound of a horse's hoofs that struck
upon her ear, sent an electric shock to her heart, causing her
to start violently, tremble, and turn deadly sick and faint,
with accelerated hope and fear, until its nearer approach re-
vealed sonic neighbor going on his way, or some negro com-
ing from the mill or the village, to her despairing sight.
Even the sound of carriage wheels, as they occasionally rolled
by, made her heart pause in its pulsations until it passed, and
proved to be some family going on a visit or a shopping er-
rand.-For still she hoped that if he did not come down the
mountain-path on horseback, he might come round the road
with his mother in her carriage. He came not. And oh,
the wedding day was almost over! No one saw the strife of
hope and fear, like the sti'uggle of life and death, going on
silently in her bosom. Mrs. ~Georgia Clifton spent the whole
forenoon in her own apartment, professing to be engaged
with many elegant preparations for the evening; but really
full of triumph for the success of her wicked scheming, and

anxiety and wonder for the events of the evening, and dark
regret also for the absence of him who, if lost to Carolyn
foi'ever, was lost to herself for a time at least. Wiffi all
these passions and emotions striving in her bosom, she dared
not show herself, lest her conscious heart and conscious face
should betray her-for Georgia was yet young in wickedness.
The Misses Cabell were in their own chamber, putting a
few finishing touches to their dresses for the evening, for
they, with Zuleime, were to be the bridesmaids.
Zuleime herself had not yet returned, although it was near
noon.
Old Mr. Clifton had been out, as was his daily habit of a
forenoon, riding around his plantation.
He came in to-day a little earlier than usual, and finding
his daughter exactly where he left her, but looking still more
pale, haggard and anxious than in the morning, he sat down
by her side, put his arm tenderly around her waist, and
gazed lovingly into her whitened and sharpened countenance,
before he said interrogatively-
"Not come yet, Carolyn ~"
"No ,sir !" answered the young lady, rising and putting
off her father's caressing arm, and her own humiliating des-
pondency, with a proud and queenly air.
"Well!" said the old man, with sudden energy, "I WILL
certainly now ride up to Hardbargain and know' the reason.
DANDY !-my horse, there! Bring him back !-I've not
done with him !"
"Father !" said Carolyn, seizing his hand, and detaining
him, while she raised her head and looked and spoke in a
manner that reminded him more strongly than ever of her
arrogant mother, "Father, no, you will not go! No, no,
father, if you have any love for me, any respect for the
memory of my dead mother, do not subject her daughter and
yours to such a mortification! No, father, if he never comes,
never go after him !"
"You're a fool, girl !" cried the old man, breaking away
from her, "a palpable fool !-You were a fool for quarreling
with him and sending him away, and now you are a greater
fool for persisting in the quarrel. 'Mortification,' indeed!
Who'll be the most mortified this. evening, II wonder, 'if he
never comes ~' What the deuce are we to say to the~people

h

142

143

p


144            THE CURSE OF CLIFTON.                                                                145

THE CURSE OF CLIFTDN.

who will come here this evening to see you married?~ Tell
me that ?"
Before she could say another word, a large family carriage
rolled down the road, and turned and entered the lawn.
Carolyn sank back in her seat, nearly swooning with the
swift hope and fear that strove almost to agony as she gazed.
It looked so like Mrs. Clifton's carriage.
It was not, Jiiowever. It contained the very earliest of the
wedding guests, who, coming from a distance of thirty miles;
had set out early enough to arrive in time to secure a Whole
afternoon's rest and refreshment before dressing foil the
evening. This was customary with those coming from afar.
Old Mr. Clifton went down the steps, to receive his guests.
Carolyn arose and withdrew into the house, fortunately
before she had been recognized by the visitors; for it would
have been shockingly out of all etiquette for a bride to be
visible on her wedding-day before the wedding-hour.
When Mr. Clifton had ushered his guests into the drawing-
room, he returned to the piazza to give some directions con-
cerning the stabling of the horses, for where so many animals
were expected to be provided for, it required some extra
thought and care in their bestowal. While still giving his
orders, he saw his younger daughter riding slowly up to 'the
house. Pleased to see her return in safety, in spite of his
evil forebodings of the morning, and thinking besides that
she could give him some news of the laggard bridegroom, lie
hastened to . meet her and lift her from the saddle, with a
joyous-
"Well, my darling! well, my damask rose-bud! Back
in time, according to promise, eh ?"
But at the sight of her father, the girl's face flushed and
paled so swiftly, her bosom rose. and fell so rapidly, her
whole frame was so agitated, her manner so confused, that
the old man was seized with alarm, and exclaimed, hur-
riedly.-
"In the name of Heaven, my dearest child, what is the
matter ?"
But Zuleime, incapable of reply, looked as 'if she would
sink into the ground.
Mr. Clifton's first definite thought was that some a~~cident
or catastrophe had befallen the bridegroom.

"Good Heaven, Zuleime, what has happened? Where is
Archer Clifton? Speak-has he come to any harm ?"
Much relieved that her father's suspicions had fallen out
of the true track-yet still considerably shaken, Zuleime re-
plied, in a faltering voice; that Captain Clifton had received
orders', and had departed that morning with IAeutenant
Fairfax for Winchester, where their regiment was quartered,
and that Mrs. Clifton, of Hardbargain, desired to see Mr.
Clifton as soon as possible. Without another word-totally
unsuspicious that Mrs. Fairfax stood before him-the old
man threw himself on horseback, and rode furiously toward
llardbargain.
Mrs. Frank Fairfax, our runaway daughter, and widowed
bride, stole to her own little room to weep in secret, a little
over her fault, but a great deal over the absence of and the
danger about to befall her husband.
Dinner was served without Mr. Clifton, Miss Clifton,
Zuleime, and the Misses Cabell. Mrs. Georgia Clifton alone
entertained the newly arrived company. This did not occa-
sion remark. Mr. Clifton was known to be absent, and it
was customary, as I said before, for the bride and her
attendants to be invisible.
In the meantime, Carolyn Clifton sat in her chamber-
pride, love, regret, anger, hope, fear-al1~goOd and evil pas-
sions striving in her soul, or in turn holding the mastery over
it. It was drawing near the hour when she should commence
her bridal toilet, if indeed any bridal array was to be assumed
that evening. Amidst all her keen anxiety, she dreaded lest
some one should come in and tell her it was time to dress.
What should her proud heart permit her to explain to such
a one. She need not have feared interruption, however.
The Misses Cabell, her bridesmaids, it is true, sat together
in their chamber very impatiently awaiting a message from
the bride-very impatiently, indeed, for after her ceremonious
dressing, they had their own very elaborate toilet to make.
But they wo~ild not enter. hdr dressing-room unsummoned,
or at least until they should receive from some member of the
family a suggestion that it was now proper to do so. And
no one thought or remembered to give them the hint.
Mrs. Georgia Clifton~self~conviCted of being the' origina-
tor of all the great trouble that had befallen, and the greater
12~

I
~ (
I
~9)~

144

146


146

TIlE CURSE OF CLIFTON.

~'~' ~,
~ V

that was about to befall the house-kept herself as much as
possible aloof.
And Zuleime was as yet too deeply absorbed in the con-
templation of her own recent bridehood, and the sorrow of
her widowhood, to think of anything else.
Meanwhile old Mr. Clifton had ridden as for life up to
Ilardbargain, thrown' himself from his horse, flung the bridle
upon his neck and let him go loese, while he himself rushed
up the stairs and into the hall, and without the ceremony of
a 'rap, burst into the quiet presence of Mrs. Clifton as she
sat sewing in her shady parlor. She arose calmly to receive
him; and the very quietness of the lady threw the excited
old gentleman off his guard, and out of his politeness, and
into a rage.
"Well, madam !" he exclaimed, throwing his hat down
with a thump into a chair, and tramping up and down the
floor. "Here's a pretty state of affairs !"
"Mr. Clifton, you are excited."
"Yes, madam, I AM excited !" interrupted the old man-
"very muek excited, madam! Very much excited, indeed,
madam! Where is Archer Clifton? tell me that !"
"Mr. Clifton, sit down and compose yourself!"
"Compose myself! Compose myself with a prospect of
three hundred people pouring into my house to-night, each
one of them agape to see a wedding, and to have to tell them
there will be no wedding !"
"Mr. Clifton, you can't regret this circumstance more
than I do!"
"I don't regret it at all, ma'am! I rejoice at it, nia'am!
I congr~itulate myself and my daughter, ma'am! But I'll
have satisfaction, ma'am! I'll have satisfaction, ma'am "'
said the old man, wiping the perspiration from his red face.
"Satisfaction for what you rejoice at, Mr. Clifton ?" in-
quired the lady, smiling at his unreasonable anger with her-
self.
"J'll-yes~I'll have satisfaction, ma'am !"
"From whom? From me? Do you intend to call me
out as my son's representative? Do you wish to compel me
to fight a duel; or to make an apology~which ?" inquired
the laiy, coolly.
"Dem it, mem, I'll-I'll have satisfaction !" exclaimed

TilE OURSI~ OF CLIFTON           147
the old man, growing shorter and shorter in his syllables.
"I'll-I'll write to the Colonel of the regiment! I'll-I'll
make the matter known to the Major General of the Army!'
I'll-yes, dem-nie! P11 go to Washington and tell the Presi-
dent! I'll have that young rascal cashiered, and broken and
dismissed from the service !"
"What! all three f Why, that is passing cruel! Quite
as bad as being killed and murdered, and mortally wounded!"
said the lady, smiling at his insane vehemence.
"Dem it, mem! don't take my words up !" he exclaimed,
stamping up and down the floor, and then breaking out into
vituperative abuse of Archer Clifton, all addressed to Mrs.
Clifton, who, though becoming very much agitated, now pre-
served a dignified silence.
"Mr. Clifton forgets that he is a man, and that he speaks
to a woman !" said a stern, but low-toned voice.
And the old gentleman turned to see Kate Kavanagh,
"severe in youthful beauty," standing within the door; yes,
in becutty, for her slight figure was drawn gracefully up-her
bosom heaving, her fine head erected, her cheeks crimson,
and her eyes intensely brilliant with the ~just indignation that
moved her soul, as she walked straight up to Mrs. Clifton,
and said-
"Dearest lady, allow me-do allow me to attend you to your
own room, and be your substitute here, in waiting upon Mr.
Clifton."
"No, Kate-no, my dear girl. I have to talk rationally
t~ the man as soon as he comes to his senses," replied the lady.
"Who is that girl ?" inquired the old gentleman, not re~
cognizing Kate under the new aspect-or affecting not to do
so. "Who is that girl, Mrs. Clifton ?" he repeated, while
the lady gazed fondly on her prot6g~.
"Miss Kavanagh my son's ward, and my own adopted
daughter," replied Mrs. Clifton, without withdrawing her
fond gaze from the face of Kate, who was blushing under it.
"Miss Kavanagh, your son's ward, and your own adopted
daughter! A promising relationship all around, that is-up
~ou~-.my~wordit is !" said Mr. Clifton, very deliber-
ately. "However," he added, "she has brought me to re-
flection, for which I thank her. And Mrs. Clifton, I feel
sorry and mortified that I have been betrayed into some vie-


t
K
~4ii
~
AK
I
I~i
I
A
j K
{

TIlE CURSE 03? CLIFTON.

lence of speech and manner; it is a family failing, you know.
Pray pardon me."
"Mr. Clifton, please' to sit down near me.' My voice is
not strong. It may be disquietude, but I find a difficulty in
raising it, or in keeping up a running conversation."
"My dear sister, I am afraid your lungs grow weak! I nrn
indeed! I have noticed it before. I ~have said the same to
Georgia and to Carolyn! Indeed, my dear sister Clifton, I
wish you would take care of yourself. I was a brute to throw
myself into a passion in your presence. I was, indeed! I
see it has overcome you! Kate Kavanagh, my dear, you
Were perfectly right. I did forget myself. And you were
a fine girl to recall inc. Give me your hand, my dear."
Blushing deeply, as was her wont when praised, Kate gave
het hand, saying-half apologetically, half appealingly.-....
"Mrs. Clifton is not strong, sir. She should not be
agitated, especially so soon after her son has left her."
"I know she is not strong! 1VJy dear sister, I wish you'd
b&amp;careful of yourself! I do, indeed! You're not strong."
"After fifty, we do not grow strong as we grow old," said
the lady, pointing to a chair by her side, and indicating that
he should take it! lie did so. And then Mrs. Clifton
turned to Kate, and said-.
"Now Catherine, my dear, I wish you to go up into my
chamber and amuse yourself with a book, while I have a
confidential talk with Mr. Clifton."
Kate immediately arose, courtesies, and left the room.
Mrs. Clifton turned to her brother-in--law, and said, iyzp
quiringly, "You know the cause of this lovers' quarrel ?"
"Of course I do, madam ~ Satan fly away with them
both! I know all about it! It was about her-up stairs!"
he replied, indicating Kate KaviLnagh by a crook of his thumb.
"Yes; it was about Kate. But it was very absurd !"
"Now, I don't know that ma'ain!"
"But it certainly was-ridiculous! Mr. Clifton! she,
Catherine, knows nothing about it! Does not even dream
that she herself had the remotest connection with the quarrel,
and I do hope and trust, that she never may suspect it. What
I wish to say to you, is plainly this: That I know enough
of human nature generally, and of young people particularly,
and of Archer and Carolyn individually, to feel sure that this

149

TIlE CURSE OF CLIFTON.

very absurd and extremely inconvenient quarrel and separa-
tion~ "
"Yes, very extremely inconvenient, indeed !" emphatiCallY
interrupted the old man.
"Is only temporary-
"Yes, ma'am, but that don't make it the less embarrass-
ing-the less inconvenient !"
"I know it! Hear me out !"
"What the deuce, ma'am, are we to do with the people
who are coming to the wedding even now
"I am about to tell you, if you will quietly listen to me."
"Well! well! Yes, ma'am! I beg your pardon-I am
all attention."
~'Carolyn, I am sure, already regrets her hasty violence
of temper."
"Yes! that she does! It's easy to see that !"
"And Archer, who is slower to anger and slower to re-
pentance~4hough deeper and stronger in both for being
siow~Archer, in a very few days, will bitterly repent the
step he has taken, more especially as being on his Western
march, it will be impossible to retrace it. Under these cir-
cuinstances, this is what you must say to the assembled
company to-night :-You must tell them, that last night a
peremptory order arrived for Captain Clifton to join his regi-
inent immediately; and that the marriage is deferred for the
present. Let the company then enjoy themselves as at a ball.
And all will go off well, and without scandal. I will be
present myself, as the representativee of our side of the house.
II sent for you, Mr. Clifton, to give you this advice, and to
suggest this plan of action in meeting the embari~as5ing diffi-
culties of this evening. I should not propose this, if I were
pot sure that the marriage is only deferrecV~that if the par-
ties live, it will assuredly take place. I am certain&amp; it will,
Mr. Clifton! I am willingtO pledge my own truth and honor
on it, and become responsible for it! The plan I propose to
you for meeting the guests this evening, is truest, wisest and
best-think of it !"
"I do not think of it at all! I see its excellence at a
glance! I spring to meet it! I embrace it! I hug it to my
heart! Oh, Mrs. Clifton, you are our deliverer! Oh, Mrs.
Clifton! you are the great~grand~daughter of Oliver Cromwell,

148


II
*/
4
4'
Y

TILE CURSE OF CLIFTON.

the general, the conqueror, the deliverer, the statesman, the
politician, the diplomatist, the everything at an emergency
You'll see how gloriously I'll execute your orders! You'll
make me Lieutenant-General when you are Lady Protector
of the Commonwealth!" exclaimed the old man, starting up
and clapping his hat upon his head, and joking like a boy,
for very joy that his difficulty was smoothed. lie shook hands
with Mrs. Clifton, begging her not to be late, as he should
want the encouragement of her presence in order to enable
him to make his speech. Then he mounted his horse, and
rode rapidly away down the mountain-path to Clifton. When
he arrived at home, he found the lawn already covered with
carriages, horses and Servants, and the piazza, halls, and all
the first floor rooms, thronged with company. lie passed,
through them all, bowing right and left and hastened to his
daughter's room. Mr. Clifton had some doubts about getting
his proud daughter to consent to the wise plan suggested by
his sister-in-law. But he meant to carry his consent by a
coup-de-.main. So he pushed open her door, burst into her
chamber, and threw himself, puffing, blowing, and perspiring,
into the nearest chair, exclaiming-.
"He's gone, Oarolyn! He's clear ,gone, confound him !"
Carolyn drew nearer her father, and gazed into his face,
to read there the confirmation of what she scarcely could be-
lieve. The old man wiped his streaming face with his hand-
kerchief, and stuffed it again into his pocket, exclaiming-.
"Yes! he's gone! gone! gone! gone!" Then opening
wide his arms, 'he murmured, "But never mind, my dear
child! you've got your o14 father left to love you, and to
avenge you, too, if needful! Don't grieve! Come to my
bosom! Don't grieve !"
"'Grieve,' sir !" exclaimed the imperious girl, elevating
her queenly head, "we do not grieve for a traitor! We
pronounce sentence on him, and execute it !"
"True! true! my noble girl! There spoke ybur mother's
daughter! Yet-." suddenly cried the old gentleman, as by
a quick recollection and revulsion of feeling, "what a devil
of a kettle of fish this is, my dear! Blame the fellow, what
are we to 'do ~ Deuce take the man-what are we to say to
the people down stairs ~ Say, Carolyn! Woman's wit is
quick! Can you think of anything ?"

150

TIlE CURSE OF CLIFTON.            151
Carolyn stood in proud and bitter thought for some minutes,
and then she smiled, with a scornful smile, and said-
"190 nothing, sir Let all go on as was planned!. Let
the band of music take its place in the saloon! Let the
wedding guests come, and be received! And then' leave all
the rest to me! And now, my dear father, pray excuse me,
as it is time to dress."
"To dress! Why, Carolyn, what do you mean ~ Are
you mad ~ Dress for what ?" asked the old gentleman,
anxious to know if perchance her idea in any way resembled
the plan adopted by himself, from Mrs. Clifton's suggestion.
"No, sir! I am not mad. 'My pulse, as yours, doth
temperately keep time,'" said the young lady, extending her
hand to the bell-rope, and ringing a peal that presently
brought her woman hurrying up stairs and into her presence.
"IDarky !" said she addressing her attendant, "go to Miss
Zuleime, and to the Misses Cabell, and let them know that I
" The old handmaid went
have waited for them some time.
out, and Carolyn turned to her father, and said, "My dear-
est father! when I am dressed I will send for you, and we
will have a conversation, in which I will tell you my simple
plan for getting through the evening. I have not quite nia-
tured it yet! Ah! here are the girls! Good evening for a
couple of hours, father !"
She opened the door for her father, who just escaped the
young bridesmaids, who were coming in.
lie went out muttering-
"I don't know what she means. I suppose I can have
confidence in her. At least I must for the present, and then,.
there is Mrs. Clifton's plan." He went into his own room.
and arrayed himself in festive garments for the occasion, and
then went below stairs to groan inwardly over the numerous
arrivals of guests, whose carriages' thronged the lawn, and
whose servants crowded the piazza, hall and entries. Pre-
sently a servant approached him, 'and ~aid, respectfully, in a
low voice-
"Miss Clifton's compliments, sir, and will see you in her
own room."
The old gentleman hastened thither. lie fonnd his daugh-
ter ready dressed, and quite alone. Her bridesmaids had
gone to make their own toilets.


A
.1
4
9 1

TIlE CURSE 01? CLIFTON.

CC Father !" she said, "I will not wear the willow for a re-
creant lover! 1 have determined that the festivities shall go
on to-night. I will go down and lead off the first dance my..
self. You, my father, may explain, as you please, that the
marriage is broken off, but that the music, dancing, and feast..
ing are not arrested for that reason."
The old man had determined within himself what to speak,
but he answered....~
"My dear child, are you equal to it ~"
"Equal sir? Try me !"
"Very well, my dear. Come! And I will say-what is
proper upon the occasion."
In the meanwhile the splendid company assembled in the
brilliantly lighted saloon, awaited with great impatience the
entree of the bridal train.
Made conspicuous in that gorgeous assembly by his black
gown and bands, sat the clergyman who was to perform the
ceremony.
Georgia..darkly, resplendently beautiful as ever, moved
gracefully through the crowd.-....fulI of gracious courtesy, yet'
flushed, anxious, feverish.......half fearing' that the bridegroom
would appear at this last moment. This fear was aroused
by the presence, and the calm, eheerftil, self~possessed looks
of Mrs. Clifton, of Hardbargain. At length light steps were
heard in the hall. The doors of the saloon were thrown
open. And all eyes were turned to see the wedding pro-
cession enter. But instead of a bridal train, came old
Mr. Clifton, leading in his daughter Carolyn. The surprise,
the wonder of the company was at first silent and breathless
as it was profound. But soon a low whisper arose, and like
a low 'breeze in the leaves, passed from one to another, until
the room was in a general buzz.
Mr. Clifton led his daughter into the centre of the saloon,
and with her still hanging on his arm, 'turned and faced the
company, waiting until they should be silent before he would
speak. The father and daughter, as they stood there, pre-
sented a fine, imposing appearance. Both were arrayed with
the gorgeous splendor that prevailed at that day.
The old gentleman had his snow-white hair turned back
off his forehead, and carried all down to the nape of his
neck, where it was plaited into a queue, and adorned with a

THE CURSE 013' CLIFTON.

153

large white satin bow, both snowy plait and bow in pleasant
relief against the back of the dark crimson velvet coat-his
vest and small clothes were of white satin, and his long hose
of white silk were fastened to the small-clothes below the knee
with white satin bows and gold buckles-his slippers were
of crimson morocco, with high heels, large bows, and gold
buckles. His dress was rather antiquated even for that day.
And he stood there waiting for silence with the suave and
stately courtesy of the old school gentleman.
Very much like a queen looked the beautiful Carolyn, 'but
very little like a bride, either in her dignified. self-possession,
or in her magnificent array. Her fair hair was carried up
above her forehead, and dressed high, in the regal style of
that day. Its rich waves and bands were wreathed with
pearls, and adorned with a plums of white ostrich feathers,
powdered with minute silver spangles. Her neck and arms
were bare, but adorned with pearls, and softly shaded with
the finest lace at the edge of the bodice and sleeves. Her
dress was of rich blue satin brocade, made with long waist,
sharp pointed stomacher, and flowing sleeves and flowing
skirt-the edges of the skirt finished with a very deep border
of silver embroidery; a lighter border of the same running
around the sleeves; the stomacher ~vas embroidered with sil-
ver and pearls. Over her skirt she wore a train of splendid
lace, lightly embroidered with a running vine of silver. She
toyed with an elegant fan of carved mother-of-pearl and
marabout feathers. She stood there, as I said, not at all
like a bride, either in her gorgeous apparel, or her self-assert-
ing manner. She stood there with a gay, proud air, beneath
which none could have discerned the deeply humiliated spirit
of the arrogant woman, or suspected the wounded and
breaking heart of the forsaken bride.-When the murmur of
voices which had greeted their entrance had subsided, and
silence was restored, Mr. Clifton bowed deeply, and-win the
somewhat high-flown grandiloquence of style he had once'
soon exhibited by a manager of a city theatre, when apolo-
gisii~g for the' non-appearance of the evening's star-spoke
as follows: "Ladies and gentlemen, the distinction of your
presence here this evening, has been prayed that you might
give the honor of your cojintenance to the espousals of my
nephew and daughter. You have grRciously accorded us the
VoL. 8.-13

152

N

'1

$


154           TIIECTJRsE OF CLIFTON.                                                          155

TIlE CURSE OF CLIFTON.

dignity of your society here for that purpose." (An embar
raised pause, while the assembly listened in breathless cnn.
osity and expectation, and he continued,) "Ladies and gentle
men, 'man proposes, but God disposes.' The great Arbiter
of destiny has ordained the issue of events otherwise than
as we had hoped, planned, and expected. Even last night
suddenly came a peremptory order from head-quarters, to
Captain Clifton, to join his regiment instantly for the purpose
of taking the command of a detachment of cavalry, to march
immediately to the Indian frontier to put down an irruption
of the Shoshowanawas! Ladies and gentlemen !" (continued
the old gentleman, warming up with his subject,) "you know
the stern, uncompromising duty of the soldier at such a cri-
sis. One syllable~one single syllable comprehends his in-
supportable obligation-' Go.' The man, the lover, the
bridegroom must give place to the soldier. As our greatest
poet, Walter Scott, has it,-.-the soldier at the sound of the
trumpet, must
~C C Leave unterided the herd,
The floek without shelter,
The dead uninterred,
The bride at the altar.'
"Ladies and gentlemen, our gallant Captain Clifton has
literally left his 'bride at the altar.' But soldier's love may
not mourn bridegroom's loss. Nor may we deny ourselves
the distinction and joy of your presence for the whole night
-nor," (the old man was unconsciously sliding from his
lofty magniloquence down to the plain vernacular,) "nor
must I disappoint these young men and maidens of their
dance to-night. lie! music there! Strike up the liveliest
quadrille air t~pon your list. Let them dance to the briskest
music while they are fresh. Charley Cabell, my boy, come
here and lead out your cousin Carolyn !"
Major Cabell advanced, and with much grace and dignity
led Miss Clifton to the head of the quadrille, as the music
pealed forth.
"Young gentlemen, select your partners!" exclaimed the
old man, adding example to precept, by choosing the youngest
and prettiest girl in the room, and leading her to the place
right opposite his nephew and daughter. Soon all the Sur-
prise and disappointment were forgotten in enjoyment The

evening was spent in the gayest hilarity~~Carolyn Clifton,
the forsaken bride, apparently the gayest of the gay. So
gay, indeed, was Miss Clifton, that she drew upon herself the
severe animadversions of several ladies present, who affirmed
that her conduct was heartless in the extreme; to laugh and
sing and dance and jest with such thorough abandonment to
pleasure, just after the departure of her lover to brave the
ghastly horrors of Indian warfare. Much more did they
approve of the pensive manners of Zuleime. Poor Zuleime
was all unskilled in self~contrOl~her heart was "exceeding
sorrowful," and so she let it appear. The company separated
at a very late hour that night, or rather a very early hour
of the next morning. Those in the neighborhood departing,
those from a distance retiring to the chambers to take some
sleep before breakfast, after which they were to set out for
home.
I

155


156            THE CURSE OF CLIFTON.

CHAPTER X.
THE 5ISTEfl5.
Sister! Since I met thee last,
O'er thy brow a change hat h past;
In the softness of thine eyes,
Deep and still a shadow lies;
From thy Voice there thrills a tone,
Never to thy childhood known;
Through thy soul a storm bath moved,
-Gentle sister, thou hath loved.
OVERTASKED, weary and exhausted by her lon~g efforts,
Caiolyn Clifton sought her own chamber, and threw herself,
all splendidly arrayed ~ts she was, upon her bed. She had
no fear of interruption, for it was not yet daybreak, and her
woman would not be up for several hours. So she was sur-
prised, and not at all pleased when a gentle rap came to the
door. She would not answer or move to let the rapper know
that she was awake. She was weary, weary with acting for
one night, and needed rest. But after the unknown had
rapped two or three times, the door was gently opened, and
the sweet voice of Zuleime was heard to say-
"Sister, I know you are not asleep~will you let me come
in ~" And without waiting for an answer, she entered, and
softly closed the doqr, and can~e to the bedside, saying-" I
heard you when you came up and threw yourself down on
the bed, and I knew you were not asleep-let me stay with
you, dear sister, Won't you ?"
no, Zuleime, I wish to sleep," said Carolyn, still
~p~'essing both hands to her throbbing temples.
"Well, then, dear Carolyn, let me undress you, you can
never compose yourself in that dress ;" and the affectionate
girl began fo take off her slippers and stockings, saying-" I
can take off all the small articles, and unlace your stomacher
without disturbing you, sister, and then you need not ~tand
up more than a minute to disrobe."

THE CUI~SE OF CLI~FTON.          16T
In indifference or abstraction, Miss Clifton p5mitted the
gentle girl to unclasp all her jewels, and loosen her dress,
without ever removing her hands, clasped tightly upon her
temples, till Zuleime, wishing to take down the elaborate
coiffure, gently withdrew them, and unwound the strings of
pearls, and unfastened the plume of feathers. When the
affectionate girl had laid aside all these glittering gewgaws,
and freed her long, fair hair, and relieved her oppressed and
fevered head, the proud and scornful Carolyn, subdued by
the gentleness of her sweet, only sister, looked in her face,
read there a strange sympathy, delicate as it was deep, and
suddenly put her arms around her neck, drew her head down
to her own, and kissed her fondly, murmuring-
"Oh, Zuleime! my child, my child! if you knew-"
"I do know, dearest Carolyn! IDearest sister, I ~u1o know
it all! all! and feel it-feel it from the bottom of my heart!
That is the reason I came in, Carolyn! But I did not come
in to disturb you, even by my sympathy. I came in to put
you to sleep. Stand up, dearest Carolyn, and drop these~
heavy robes, and I will throw this light wrapper around you,
and then you can lie down again-there!
"Oh! sleep !-when shall I sleep again V' bitterly asked
Carolyn, as Zuleime laid her head tenderly back upon the
freshened pillow.
"Well, don't talk, dear Carolyn, and you will see that
God will send sleep." And Zuleime cooled her brow by
passing over it several times a lump of ice in a napkin, and
laid down by her side, and fanned her, in that measured,
monotonous time, so inducive to slumber. So slowly ~he
fanned her, 'resistin~7dl her attempts to enter into conversa-
tion, until wearied nature yielded, and Carolyn was asleep.
Then, as it was morning, Zuleime hoisted the windows, to
admit a fresh current of air, but left the blinds clos ~d, to
exclude the light. ~4ext, she put all Carolyn's things sam-
fully away, and silently restored the room to order. Then
she laid a folded napkin, dipped in ice-water, over the still
burning brow, and cautiously left the room, to go and order
tea and toast to be ready for Carolyn as soon as she, should
awake. She found the house below stairs in a great but
comparatively sien~t bustle. The servants, who had scarcely
retired the night previous, wete engaged in clearing away
i3~


'158

TILE CURsE 01? CLIFTOY.

the disorder of the saloon, parlor and dining-room, and in
laying the cloth for breakfast for the numerous visitors who
had remained over night. Zuleime passed on to the kitchen,
and gave her orders, and then silently stole up stairs again
to her sister's room~
Carolyn slept long and heavily. Several hours passed
before she awoke. When she opened her eyes, arid fixed
them gratefully upon Zuleime, she raised her arms, again
embraced her, saying-.
"You have comforted me, dear Zi~zleime."
"And I will comfort you more, dear sister. I know how
to. doit. how do you feel, Carolyn ~"
"Better-my head clearer-my nerves steadier-but a
weary weight at my heart."
"It shall go away, Carolyn. I know how to drive it away.
But first you must take something."
And Zuleime rang the bell, and told the servant who zip-
peared, to bxing Miss Carolyn some fresh tca~ and toast.
While he was gone after it, Zuleime bathed her sister's
face and hands, and combed out her hair, and by the time
she was made comfortable, the servant r
refreshments.                       e-appeared with the
After Carolyn had breakfasted lightly, (and this was the
first food she had taken for thirty-six hours,) she fell ex-
hausted back upon her pillow, and said-
"I cannot appear this morning, Zuleime! I am tired of
acting a p~rt !"
"You need not do it, dear Carolyn! The people have
breakfasted, and are almost all gone-and the others are
going. Carolyn, dear, I saw drcherwhen he went away-"
Miss Clifton was still too proud to make a comment.
"Carolyn, he looked broken-hearted, despairing-indeed
he did! Ol~, Carolyn! I think if he could have hoped that
you. would have made up with him, he would have let his
regiment go to perdition rather than not hastened to your~
feet!"
"Why did he not try, then ?"
"Oh, sister, you banished him, and men have some pride.
He waited for your relenting, feel sure !"
Carolyn remembered, with bitter regret, her refusal ~o let
.h~r father go and really him.

THE CURSE OP CLIFTON.

159

"Carolyn, write to him. The detachment under his coin-
niand does not march from Winchester for nine days yet.
Write, Carolyn-there is abundant time for him to get your
letter and answer it before he goes. Then you will be re-
conciled and happy. Everything will be restored, and you
will comfort yourself by remembering that he would have had
to have gone, any way, and that he is gone reconciled !"
Miss Clifton shook her head.
"No, Zuleime! I cannot!' I should not know how to
write such a letter! What could I say to blin ~"
"Say! I should know what to say! If you have banished
him, revoke your sentence of exile. If you have ascertained
that you have done him injustice, tell him so. If you are
sorry that you parted in anger, let him know it. If you wish
to hear from him before he goes, ask him to write to you.~~
"I could not !-I could not! I never could write such a
letter! My heart-stringS would crack in the attempt !"
"And are y~u so proud ~ And will you let kim go forth
to that ghastly Indian war-oh, God my flesh creeps only
to think of it !" said Zuleime, shuddering. "And will you
not retract your false accusation, and revoke your cruel sen-
tence of banishment, and express kind feelings and kind
wishes for him about to be exposed to such horrors '~"
"I can't! I can't! I cannot! My heart~string5 would
snap with the effort! I can bear sorrow, but not humiliation!
I can die, but I cannot be humbled !"
"You cannot be humbled by an act of justice, sister. That
letter would be only an act of justice. And, oh! it would
give him such happiness, and bring you such sweet peace, in
place of all this heartburning. Think of it, dear Carolyn !"
While Zuleime spoke, a rap was heard at the door, and a
servant appeared, and said that "Marster wished to see Miss
Zuleime in the parlor."
"Think of it, dear Carolyn," said Zuleime, in a cheerful
voice, kissing her sister's forehead, and then hastening out
of the room.
Carolyn did think of it! The idea once presented, she
could not banish it again ;-the hope of a reconciliation once
raised, could ~not be suppressed! She could think of no-
thing else. "It was but an act of conunon ju5ti0~-it was a
duty," she repeated to herself, many times, to answer the ob-

4
**
1~
7
V
U,,
.1,


too              THE co~ or CLIFTON.
sections of her pride, which argued, "It ~5 undignified, u~-
womanly, to make this overture." Then her love, her benevo..
lence, her fears for him, pleaded, "It will make him so happy
~-it will fill his heart with courage, and his arm with strength
for the battle! And suppose he should be killed ?-.--.what
intolerable reiiiorse will be added to your sorrow for him
when you reflect that he died without a relenting word from
you, who have been so cruelly unjust to him! That he died
under your own sentence of exile! Besides, if none of these
things happen, 'can yoz~ bear these weary, weary days of
estrangement, absence, and suspense ?-~-weary, weary days,
that will Slowly, slowly drag themselves through weeks, and
months, and years of time ?" Oh, no! No, no! She cannot
bear that prospect! She will be just-..-.she will do her duty,
and satisfy her affection at the same time. Down, pride! for
she will write that letter. She did write it. She did not read
it over again, lest scorn should rise and compel her to hurl it
down and set her heel upon it. She set her teeth almost
grimly in her determination to protect that gentle, loving
missive of sorrow and affection from an assault of her beset-
ting sin, as she sealed and directed it. She then slipped on
her dressing.-gown, and stole down the back stairs, where she
found a boy lounging. She ordered him to saddle~a horse
immediately, and take that letter to the post office. Nay,
she waited till she saw the boy off, and was sure that none
had seen him or the letter he carried. Then she returned
to her own room, determining that no soul.-.not her father..-..
not even Zuleime, should share her confidence and know her
condescension.

TIlE CURSE OF CLIFTON.

161

*         CHAPTER XI.
MRS. FAIRFAX A~ND MAJOR CABELL.
A father suffering, and a step.dame false,
A foolish suitor to a wedded lad
SHAKSPEARJ~- 1~BELINE.
ZULEIME went into the parlor and found her father alone.
lie was sitting in an easy-chair, doing u~thing, but appa-
rently waiting for her.
"Come hither, Zuleime," he said.
And when she went up to him, he drew her upon his kuee,
and passed his left arm around her waist, while, with his
right hand, he smoothed her black hair.
And lie gazed fondly in her face. He noticed that her
cheek was pale, and her countenance pensive, but hoped that
it was from the excitement of the night before. He could not
bear to think of its being regret for Frank. He feared to ask
her the cause of her seriousness. He disliked to recall Frank
in any manner to her recollection. He wished her to forget
him, if possible. At least, he would do so.
"Zuleime," he said, after he had stroked her hair some
time, "you know, my love, that your aunt Cabell, atid yo~ir
cousins, are goix~ig back to Richmond to-day."
"Are they, sir ~ I did not know it," said Zuleime,~ turn-
ing paler, with apprehension of something that might be
coming.
"Yes, my dear, they are. And, Zuleime-" here he
paused-then he went on, "you have been thinking, I sup-
pose, that you should have to return with them, to enter
upon your school duties again, as the first of September is
so near."
"IL had not thought of it, sir! So many things happen~
lug, put it out of my head. But I am quite willing to go,
and can be ready in half an hour."

A
V.
I
V
~


162           TIlE CURs]~ OF CLIFTON.                                                         163

THE CURSE OF CLIFTON.

"Thank you, my dear child. I am very glad to see you
so prompt to oblige me; but, my dear Zuleime, I have good
news for you."
"Good news, sir ?"
"Yes, girl! the best news! the very best news! news that
young ladies always rejoice to hear !"
"What news, sir ?" she asked, fearfully.
"Don't whine, girl! it is not your sentence of death! It
is your deed of emancipation! Your 'free papers,' as the
niggers would say. You are not to return to school any
more!
now Are you noV surprised ~ Are you not rejoiced
Zuleime was not. She was anxious, foreboding.
"Why don't you speak, my dear ~ Ain't you glad you're
not going back to school, to leather shoulder braces and hack
boards, and square and compass rules and regulations, that
mean nothing, unless they mean persecution and torture!
Say, ain't you glad ~"
"I think I ht~d rather go back to school for the present,
sir."
"Nonsense, now, my dear! Ah! I see how it is! You
want to return with your dear aunt Cabell, and the dear city
cousins......especially cousin Charley! Eh, you monkey! You
grow tired of the country and your old father, as soon as
ever your aunt and cousins talk about returning to the cit4~y!
Ah! you rogue," said the old man, chucking her under the
chin, and devoutly praying that he might be right in his eon-
jecture......for, oh! that child's happiness! It lay nearer his
heart than anything else on earth or in heaven.
"Dear father !" she said, embracing him, "I do not wish
to leave you, indeed I do not. I prefer the country. And
I had~ rather never leave you, or my home."
"Dear little rogue, now don't tell. me that! I know better,
you know! And it is quite natural, and nobody blames you!
The young bird must leave its nest, and the young girl her
home, when she l~ecomes a wife. Your mother left her pa-
rents and came home here with her husband. So do not
*tluiink, my love, that your old father will charge you with
selfishness for wishing to leave him.-no, not wishing to leave
him, but wishing to go with one who is to be youi4 hus-
band."

~uleiIDe dropped her head, to conceal the deadly pallor
that crept over her face.
"Yes, dear Zuleime, you will soon return to Richmond,
though it will be not as a school~girlbut as a happy bride-
as Mrs. Major Cabell! What a sonorous name and title for
my little, romping Zuleime! Here, Charley Cabell! I have
broken the ice, now come and speak)for yourself!" exclaimed
Mr. Clifton to Major Cabell, who was going by the door.
1'rlajor Cabell came in, passing the old geutleman~ who had
seized his hat, and not trusting himself to look at his daugh-
ter, rushed out of the room. Zuleime remained standing
where he had placed her, when he put her off his knee-
panic struck~5tUpiduntil Major Cabell took her hand,
and attempted to lead her to a seat, then snatching her hand
away with a shudder, she asked almost wildly-
"Cousin Charles, when does father want this marriage to
come off~"
"As soon as my dearest Zuleilne will consent to make me
the happiest of men !" replied the commolvPlace wooer, at-
tempting to re-capture her hand, but she retreated shudder-
ing, and asking, in a frantic tone and manner, in great con~
trast to her calm words-
"Cousin Charles, do me a favor! Do not press this mat-
ter for a week or so."
"Heaven forbid that I should hurry a lady, though that
lady be my own little cousin and betrothed-Only fix the day
and I will rest content-SO that it is not a far distant day,"
he said, re~capturiflg her hand, throwing his arm around her
waist, and drawing her towards him.
"Please, don't! Let me go, cousin Charles!" exclaimed
the girl, in great distress, struggling to free herself.
"'Please, don't let me go, cousin Charles!' I don't in-
tend to, pretty cousin, until you tell me when you will give
yourself to me !" replied Major Cabell, kissing her all the
more heartily because she strove to escape.
"You know what I meant! Let me alone! It is un-
manly to behave so! Don't make me hate you !" was on
her quivering lips and in her flashing eyes, as by a sudden
effort she threw his arms off and sat down; but then she re-
collected her father, and the cruel power Major Cabell seemed

V
4'
44
1;
'4
I'

163

162


164

TH~ CURSE OP CLIFTON.

to possess over him, and she choked 'down the indignant
words, and said instead-
"Please, don't hurry and worry me, cousin Charles
this is so very sudden! I am sure I never dreamed you
would ask for poor me for years to come yet. Ii am so
young."
So young!' Ah, Zuleime, that is a piece of pretty little
womanish hypocrisy.-a little finesse that belongs to your
character, and is inherited from your French mother! 'So
young!' Now, my pretty childish cousin, you know you
have received an offer of marriage this very week! And
that, indeed, has accelerated my proposal. Fair Zuleime, a
man does not care to see his young betrothed bride courted
by another !"
"I know that!" replied Zuleinie, in a peculiarly sad voice,
moving to the other end of the room.
The slightest gesture of avoidance of him by the girl,
seemed to act as a provocative on him, so he followed her,
and clasped her in his arms, and laughing, almost rudely
kissed her, begging her between the kisses not to set his
heart on fire by her charming prudery and petulance, but to
fix the day, like a good, sensible girl as she was. Almost
frantic with rago. and shame at being so freely handled, the
Clifton blood rushed to her brain, and forgetting her father's
interest and everything else, she dashed her hand violently
into his face, and before 'he recovered from his astonishment,
broke from him and escaped-her heart beating with one
thought-one sudden, joyous thought-that come what might,
she never could be either forced or persuaded' into a marriage
with Major Cabell, because she was already a wedded wife-
no set of circumstances, whatever, could make it her duty,
or make it even possible for her to marry Major Cabell. In
all her sorrows, that was one blessed truth to sit down and
rest upon. All her duty was flow due to her husband: And
with a youthful wife's enthusiasm firing and strengthening
her heart, she thought she should stand as upon a rock,
secure against a sea of troubles. Poor child! she had yet
to learn that no position founded on a fault is for a moment
safe. Several things soon forced themselves upon her me-
mory and grieved her heart ;-her father's unknown but
certain danger, her own promise of secrecy in regard to her

;~

THE CURSE OF CLIFTON.            165
marriage, the necessity of giving some definite answer to
Major Cabell, and the obligation pressing upon her to pre-
vent, by all and any means, the highly improper and ex-
tremely offensive demonstrations of passion from her suitor,
She determined to write to Frank, tell him all that had
occurred, and ask his advice and direction; and to do this it
was necessary to gain time, and to give no false promise in
the interim. Already was Zuleime beginning to taste the
bitter fruits of her stolen marriage, and might have exclaimed,
in the perplexity of h&amp; distracted he~rt and brain-
Oh, what a tangled web we weave,
When first we venture to deceive.
While Zuleime's heart was beating so fast with many emo-
tions, her father sauntered into the parlor, where ho found
Major Cabell caressing and soothing his afflicted face.
"Well, Chancy, boy! How is it with you, eh ~ 'Could
you win a hearing from my little girl, oh? Give her time,
you know, eh ?" said the old gentleman, affecting a lightness
of heart which he was very far from feeling.
To his surprise, Major Cabell laughed heartily, still coax-
ing his ill-used phiz.
"What's the matter, Charley? What's amused you, oh 'i"
"Your girl! By my soul, Governor, I shall end in falling
seriously in love with that girl! I didn't fancy her much at
first to tell you the truth! She was entirely too good humored
-always laughing.. And I had a fancy for marrying a shrew,
just for the spicy fun of taming one! The same instinct,
Governor, that makes me like to spring upon the back of the
most vicious horse I can find, and ride and lash and spur
and fatigue the soul out of his body, until I break his back
or his temper, one-oh, Governor ?"
The old man's florid cheeks became pale with rage, and ho
felt an impulse to kick the puppy out, but a terrible neces-
sity tied his tongue and hands, and Charles Cabell went on
laughing and talking to this eWect
"Now, then, having a fancy to marry and tame a shrew-.
a real live, vicious, beautiful vixen-I did not want the
spiciest part of the sport taken out of my hauds by fathers
and mothers and pastors and masters. I shouldn't have
thanked any of you for presenting me with a model wife,
VOL. j.-14

I"

)
'4
7)


(

THE CURSE OF CLIFTON.

already smoothed down and polished to my hand. D~n
your pretty pieces of perfection! I'll none of them-flat,
insipid nonentities !-formed and re-formed, and modelled,
and re-modelled, and rubbed down and polished until they
all look as much alike as beads on a string! No, none of
your polished gems for Charles Cabell !-the bright, pure,
rough, sharp ore! Now, of Zuleime, I thought her far too
much educated-too good humored, too polite, too docile,
too much of the young 'lady,' too little of the wild young
animal-and fiat and insipid in consequence; so I cared very
little about her. But, ha, ha, ha! I never was more mis-
taken in my life! She's a prize, I tell you! A prize of the
first class! Look you! I coveted a shrew! I've found a
virago! full of blood and fire! strong and vicious, I tell you!
ha, ha, ha! Think of' her dashing her little hand in my face
when I went to kiss her, and before I recovered my eyesight
and senses, throwing me off as if I had 'been a child, and
escaping! Ha, ha, ha! I under-estimated her strength
Never mind! let the little tigress look out for the next .time
I get her in my arms ~
The old man's bosom was tlled to bursting with suppressed
passion, but he answered, calmly-.
"Oh! she's young-she's young, a spoiled child-a spoiled
child; be patient with her-she means well-give her time-
be patient with her."
"'Patient with her !' Why, uncle, I wouldn't have her
a bit different from what she is! She's charming, delight-
ful, piquant, spicy! 'Patient with her!' Why, Gov', I
shall end in falling desperately in love with her! But I say,
nune! make the little virago fix our marriage day, will you?
I have got to ~go out now and have Spitfire saddled; these
fellows never draw the girth tight enough, or fix the bit firm
enough-and I have to pull her head off to stop her some-
times, for she is the foul fiend incarnate when she gets to
running. I'll n~ake Zule ride her sometime, to see which
will get the better of the other. Say, Gov', let me have my
answer when I get back-do you hear." And seizing up
his' riding-whip and cracking it against his boots, he went
out.
The old man boiled over-he clenched his teeth, and
shook his fist-nay, shook his whole person, as he turned

TIlE CURSE OF CLIFTON.

167

livid with rage; then his arms fell helplessly by his side-
he sank into a chair-dropped his face upon his hands, and
groaned aloud. He felt a pair of arms encircling his neck1
and a sweet voice murmuring in his ear-and he raised his
head to see Zuleitne, and to hear her ask in loving tones-
"Father, what is it ~"
He put his hand tenderly around her waist, and drew her
gently to his knee, and said, while he gazed remorsefully
into her face-
"1 am a villain, Zuleime! A hoary-headed villain !"
Zuleime placed her hand upon his mouth to stop the dread-
ful words, and pressed her lips to his brow, with a look and
manner of the profoundest love and veneration.
"Yes, a hardened, persevering sinner, Zuleime! For I
intend~to persevere! I intend to give you to Charley Cabell,
my child," he said, gently removing her hand, and still
gazing on her. He continued-" II love you so much, Zn-
lejine! I love you so much! But, dear child. He's coming!
Dear child, tell me when you Will marry Charley~~Tuesday
three weeks or four weeks ~ Don't let it be longer than four
weeks, my girl !"
"Father! will you tell me why you wish me to marry
cousin Charles ~"
"I cannot! I cannot! My child, I cannot. It is for
your good, I hope! Some day I will, perhaps. Tell me
now, that's a good girl. What day will you give this little
hand to cousin Charley V'
"Father, I can't possibly give an answer for a week yet;
indeed, father, I cannot!"
"Come, now, nonsense, my child; why can't you ~ Here
is (i3harley now! come !"
"I cannot, father ~
The old gentleman kissed, and coaxed, and almost wept;
a manner of attack so hard to be resisted, that had Zuleune
been really free, she would have sacrificed her own and
Frank's hopes, and yield~d. But Zuleime was not free, and
therefore was as firmly proof against persuasion, as she would
have been against force. Two powerful motives operated in
preventing her from confessing her marriage-first her pro-
mise to keep it secret, and then the fear of precipitating
some violent, scene between her father and cousin, or some

166

I
I
I
4
)
t


'4

THE CURSE OF CLIFTON.
CHAPTER XII.-

169

168             i'E CURSE OF CLIFTON.         -  ,
fatal catastrophe to the household. To end the conflict, and
to gain time to consult Frank, by writing, was what she
most wished now.. Finally, she promised to give Major
Cabell his answer in a week, and to marry him-if she should
ever-marry anybody.
With tis promise, Major Cabell seemed satisfied-and
with his mother and sisters took leave of Clifton. And Zn-
leime retired to her own room, full of self-reproach for her
own deception.

-susPENsE.
Uncertainty !
Fell demon of our fears ! The human soul,
That can sustain despair-nures not thec.-ANON.
A WEARY week passed aways Zuleinie had written io
Frank, and Carolyn, we already know, had despatched a
letter to Archer. But the week had passed away, and no
aser to either had come from Winchester. Had the sisters
anfided in each other, such mutual confidence might have
sothed the soul-sickening anxiety of one at least. Carolyn
would have known that some accident must have prevented
Frank Fairfax from receiving or answering the momentous
letter of his youthful wife, and she would have felt that the
sam  casehad probably operated in the case. of Archer
Clfn. cuBut the sisters did not entrust their secrets to each
other. Zuleime was withheld by her sacred promise. Caro-
ly'b he prde.  But the wifei bore the pain of suspense far
better than the maiden. The wife had perfect faith in her
yughusband, and knew that some adverse chance had
hindered his getting or replying tohrlttr'h Anddsh
knew that she had unjustly banished her lover. Adse
had no faith in the love that endureth all things. Carolyn
had never suspected the depth of that calm, secure, habitual
affection--which had from childhod grown-until now.
While life and love and hope had flowed smoothly on, her
emotions were serene and moderate. But now that the quiet
stream had been stemmed by rocks and breakers, it was
lashed into fury and roared in whirlpools. The calm senti-
ment rose to turbulent, maddening passion. Her days were
restless, her nights sleepless, until, as the week wore away,
her ervs wee wougt to such severity of tension, that you
might know that at the end of uncertainty, wheter tha were

r

il


r
I
F
4'
(I
~1

THE CURSE 01? CLIFTON.

joy or sorrow, they must alike suddenly give way. Towards
the last of the week, she had privately'besought her father to
ride to Winchester, and see the detachment off, and bring
her the last news of it. The request had been confidential.....
yet do you feel all that it had cost her haughty heart ~
During the absence of Mr. Clifton, suspense was wrought up
to agony. Her days and nights were' feverish, delirious, and
so confused into each other, that she scarcely knew the fitful,
disturbed visions of the night, from the wild and anxious
brooding of the day. The day upon which her father was
expected back, was the acme, the crisis of her suffering.
Oblivious of pride and caution, careless of exposing herself
to the malign sneers of Georgia, or the rude comments of the
servants, she sat in the piazza, watching the road by which
the carriage should corne-one wild, anxious, repairing hope
possessing her. "The drowning catch it straws "-and she;
in her despair, had clutched qne mad possibility, and clun~g
to it, until to her weakened, confused, insane soul, it seemed
a probability, and then almost a certainty. It was the hope
that Clifton might return with her father! Oh, yes! That
Clifton might resign his commission and come back to her.
Oh! if indeed he loved her, as he had a thousand times
sworn, if he sorrowed over their estrangement only half as
much as she did, no hope of ~lory, no fear of disgrace would
keep him back. The more she brooded over- this, the more
likely, the more certain it appeared to be. And she sat and
gazed up the dim forest road.
The sun sank to the edge of the horizon, and lit up all the
mounttiin tops with fire, and then went down. And when
she could no longer see, she still sat and strained her ear to
catch the di~tant~ sound of wheels.
The moon arose, and flooded all the mountain scenery with
silver light, and flashed upon that distant bend of the river,
until it seemed a silver lake, lying among %~he dark hills, and
pointed the peaks of White Cliffs, until they stood up and
glittered, like an enormous row, of spears, against the deep
blue sky.
At last,, at last the very distant sound of wheels came
faintly like a doubt to her ear, and faded away again. Then
it came more distinctly, nearer, and a moving object ap-
peared upon the road. And she knew indeed it ~was her
'I

THE CURSE OF CLIFTON.

171

father~ carriage. She saw and recognized it in the moon-
light.' It turned into the lawn gate, rolled rapidly around
the circular drive, and swept swiftly up to the entrance,
where it stopped. The steps were let down, the door opened,
and old Mr. Clifton got out, followed by-no one.
Carolyn had bent eagerly, unconsciously forward; now she
started up and caught her father's hand, and gazed silently,
imploringly into his face, for the news she could not ask
for.
"The detachment has marched, my dear child! Marched
the morning of the day upon which I reached Winchester~
and two days before it was expected to have gone. So, you
see, I could not get a sight of either Frank or Archer. They
were thirty miles on their road before I reached the city.
Can't think what could have been the reason of the new
order, to anticipate their departure by two days. However!
cheer up! No use fretting, my dear! No use fretting! The
family have supped long ago, of course-have they kept my
supper ~hot for me ~ I am as hungry as an old wolf," said
the old man.
Carolyn did not hear him. Her hold relaxed upon his arm,
her hands flew up to her head, and she turned, asne struck
with sudden blindness, and tottered into the house. It was
so dark in the shady piazza, screened from the moonbeams
by interlacing cypress vines, that the old man did not see her
state. He hastened into the house, where another awaited
him with equal anxiety
Zuleime's private hope had been that Frank would seize
the opportunity of Mr. Clifton's visit, and confess his mar-
riage, and invent some way of delivering her father from the
toils of Major Cabell.
"What news, father ~" she asked, meeting him in the hall.
"'What news V Why, I am as hungry as a bear, my
pet! That's the news! I stopped to supper at L-.
But, my life! They like to have poisoned me with fried
beefsteaks and heavy biscuits and green coffee. Couldn't
touch a morsel, child! And now I am starved up to a savage
pitch! What have you got for supper V'
"Turtle soup and old crusted port, among other things,
father," replied Zuleime, waving her own anxiety for the sake
of satisfying him.

170

4
4,
4,

2, A4


I
4
I
.~ "1
4
.4
.4,,,
R

"TURTLE soup! And OLD CRUSTED PORT ;" exclaimed
the old man, in an ecstasy of delight. "Why, where on earth
did they come from ?"
"The turtle came from a ship at Norfolk, and was sent
hither by Major Cabell, who added a dozen of port of his
own importation," said Zuleime, dying with. anxiety to hear
from Frank.
"Ah-h-h-h! That was kind! He's a fellow! He'll make
a magnificent husband and son-in-law, Zuleime! I hope you
know how turtle soup should be made ?"
"Father, I know it should be eaten quite hot, and it is on
the table by this time. Come in.,~
The old man needed no pressing, but went into the dining-
room, and sat down at the table, with a face radiant with de-
light. Zuleime waited on him, although there was a servant
in attendance. And when he had freely partaken of turtle
soup, devilled crabs, a roasted fowl, etc., washed them down
with port wine, she brought him a cup of fragrant Mocha
coffee and his case of cigars. , And he sipped the coffee with
an air of infinite leisure, and then lit a cigar and puffed slowly
away, as if eternity was before him.
"Fath~', what news from Winchester ?" again asked Zn-
leime, though her hopes had fallen very low. "Whet news,
dear father ?"
"What's that to you, my pet? Will you let me digest
my supper in peace ?"
Zuleinae sat down, but looked so anxious, that her very
looks worried the old gentleman, and he said-
"Don't you know, girl, that indigestion is very dangerous
to a man of my time of life? I't may bring on apoplexy!
Don't worry me !"
Zuleime veiled her anxious gaze, but even then the pale-
ness of her cheeks annoyed her father, and he testily in-
quired.-.
"Now, what is it to you? I can understand Carolyn's
anxiety. I cannot comprehend yours at all! There, now.
.Go and send my wife to me!"
Zuleime arose to obey, but before she went, she threw her
arms around his neck, and asked-
"iDearest father, only tell me! Where our friends well?
Have they gone? Did they send any message ?"

173

THE CURSE OF CLIFTON.

"Only answer you three questionS at a time! That 15
reasonable! However, Ii can answer all in one. I have not
seen our friends. Their detatchiflentileft Winchester twelve
hours before I reached there. And now I'll tell you what I
did not like to tell Carolyn, poor girl! Namely, that the de-
tachment marched two days earlier than was intended, upon
account of dispatches received from Fort -~ praying for
speedy succor in a reinforcement. The savages have been
inassacreing and scalping there at. a most tremendous rate!
It is really a very dangerous service, In4ian warfare! God
grant that our young friends may return to us safe! Why
don't you go along and tell Georgia to come to in~ ?"
Zuleime kjg~~d her father, settled the cushion under his
feet, and went on her errand. That dispatched, she sought
her own chamber, and lay down to collect 'her thoughts. No
letter or message from her husband, and her promise of
secrecy in regard to her marriage, binding on her as ever.
And next week she must ~ive an answer to her father for
Major Cabell. She was confident that one of two things had
happened. Either her letter had never reached Frank, or else
his answer had been lost. And by the transaction only
one week's respite had she gained for her fathev-for next
week her refusal must be decided and final, and then-what
might not the consequence be to him? These thoughts ex-
cited her mind, and kept her awake. And despite her de-
termination to sleep, and her efforts to do so, she heard every
passing hour strike. It was soon after one ,o'clock that she
had fallen into a fitful slumber, when ~he was awakened by
the sound of a gay, high voice, intermingling merry words
and joyous laughter. Indeed, there seemed to be not only
one, but many voices, talking and laughing in the most jocund
manner. And 5trange~~pa5sing strange!. it seemed to come
from her sister's room, which adjoined hers! She listened
awhile; the words became fewer, but the laughter grew
wilder! And then it struck upon her' frightened senses that
Carolyn was a maniac, talking, laughing to herself! Spring-
ing from her bed, and without even waiting to slip on a gown,.
she ran into the passage and knockiA at her sister's door,
and attempted to push it open. It was locked- on the inside,.
and all her efforts to force an entrance were vain, and all her
entreaties for admission were answered by peals of uncon-

172

TIlE CURSE OF CLIFTON.


"'p
4
4

TUE CURSE OF CLIFTON.

scions laughter. At last she ran to her father's door, and
rapped loudly, exclaiming-
"Father, father! Get up! get up! Something, I am
sure, has happened to Carolyn! Something dreadful! Get
up! getup!"
The old man was hard to awaken, even by the efforts of
'Georgia, who was aroused at once, and came and opened the
door for Zuleime! And all this time the sound of loud talk,
high laughter, and wild snatches of song, as from several ex-
cited people, rather than from ono, issued from Carolyn's
chamber. At length, by the united exertions of his wife
and daughter, the fatigued and drowsy old gentleman was
aroused and placed upon his feet, and mad6 to
"Un~Ierstand a horror in their words-
If not the words."
He threw on his shawl gown and hastened to Carolyn's
'door, which was instantly forced open.
And what a sight met their eyes!
There stood Miss Clifton arrayed in her gorgeous bridal
costume, looking gloriously beautiful, though certainly as no
bride ever looked before! The raging fever had given the
brightness and richness of the carnation rose to her com~
plexion, and imparted a supernatural light to her eyes, that
'burned and flashed, and seemed to strike fire as they sprang
from one to the other of the intruders, with a mad, joyous,
defiant glance!
The alarm of her father was unlimited, unspeakable! He
darted from the room, and almost precipitated himself down
the stairs in his haste to mount and dispatch a servant for
the family physician. And while he was gone, Georgia and
Zuleime, by coaxing and humoring the phantasy of the poor
girl, succeeded in undressing her and putting her to bed-
she still raving about her marriage, and sometimes breaking
out into a wild laugh, and once telling Georgia that 8ke,
being a married woman, had no right or business to be offi-
ciating as bridesmaid.
It was near morning when the doctor came.' After exam-
ining the state of the patient, he pronounced her disease to
be brain fever, brought on by over-excitement of the nervous
system. He wrote prescriptions, and remained with her until

TUE CURSE OF CLIFTON.

175

they were administered. And then he departed with a
promise to return early in the forenoon.
Mrs. Clifton, of llardbargaiii, was summoned, and lost no
time in hastening to the sick room of her daughter-in-law,
as she chose to call Carolyn.
For many days the struggle between life and death went
on, and no one, not even the medical attendant, was able to
form an opinion as to which power would eventually conquer.
Mrs. Clifton had taken her station by the bedside of the
patient as permanent nurse, and she constantly refused to
yield her post to any other person. And it' was to her vigi-
lant attention, quick perceptions, and intelligent treatment,
that all the family. ascribed the recovery of the girl. For tho
crisis came and passed, and Carolyn Clifton lived.
But no sooner was the patient pronounced out of danger,
and the excitement of anxiety over, than the. nurse herself
fell ill. And Nrs. Clifton, exhausted, prostrated, entered
her carriage, and was driven to Hardbargain.

4"
1

174

a
5,
[I

4
r ~
14


34, -

TIfl~ CUItSi~ 01? CLIFTON.

CHAPTER ~XIII.
ARCHER CLIFTON'S SKETCHES.
The deepest sorrow that stern fate can bring
In all her catalogue of suffering,
An eating rust-lhe spirit's direst pain-
'to love, adore-nor be beloved again,
Or know between you lies a gulf that ever
Your forms, your hopes, your destinies must sever-.Mas. LEWIS,
As soon as Mrs. Clifton reached home-leaning on the
ann of her maid, she walked up stairs and.entered her son's
deserted room, and when her attendant had relieved her of
scarf and bonnet, she lay down upon his lounge, and sent
Ilenny for Kate Kavanagh. In less than half an hour Kate
entered. And the lady turned to her and said-
"Catherine, my dear, I must take you into my confidence~
yes, and into other people's, too, whether they approve it or
not. Draw Archer's writing-desk up here to the side of the
lounge. I want you to write a letter to him. Catherine's
brow crimsoned, and ~he trembled very much as she obeyed.
"My dear Cath~rine, I am sure you will be discreet, and
never speak of what I am about to entrust to you. I can
rely on you P' said the lady, interrogatively, raising those
fever-brightened dark eyes to the girl's face. Catherine
nodded quickl5r, in her usual way, when the words would not
come. "You see, my dear child, this most unhappy ~quarrel
between Carolyn and Ar6her, is causing a great deal of un-
necessary suffering to both-aud Carolyn, as the frailer of
the two, is nearly dying under it. Her brain fever was
caused by it. And it was as much as Dr. Barnes and my-
self could do, to bring her safely through it with life and
reason. This estrangement between them must not continue,
or she will die. She is not so strong as she looks to be.
Indeed, she is very delicate, like her mother. Arche~ is far
on his Western march now, and cannot return of course;.

177

THE CURSE O~' CLIFTON.

but he must write to her, and comfort her. I wish you to
write and tell him so. Now, then, child, you know the ob-
ject. Open the desk, and lay out the paper, while I try to
think what I want said, and how I want you to say it."
Catherine's hands quivered as she turned down the leaf of
the desk, and mechanicallY laid the paper out on the top.
"Just date it, dear child, and then I will tell you how to be-
gin." Catherine dipped her pen in ink, and was just about
to put it to paper; when something there caught and held her
eyes,~ and she gazed with dilating pupils, and trembled more
than ever.
The paper before her was covered with a water-colored
sketch of Marguerite, of France, at the siege of Damietta.
And the ideal face of the royal heroine, was the real one of
the humble Catherine herself. And in the corner of the
paper were the initials A. C. He had taken her homely fea-
tures as his notion of those of the heroic Queen of St. Louis.
And as she gazed, her heart shuddered with a strange, wild
emotion of blended wonder, joy and remorse. The nature
of the maiden was becoming vaguely intelligible to herself.
And Mrs. Clifton did not see her trance, but lay upon ~he
sofa very weary, with her hands pressed upon her temples,
trying to settle in what manner she should address her son
upon this delicate subject. And Catherine forgot everything
in the sketch before her, and the tumultuous, blissful, painful
emotions it excited. An abyss was suddenly thrown open
in the depths of her heart, whose existence was unsuspected
till now. Sow was she sorry that the marriage between
Archer Clifton and his cousin, was broken off-by mutual
consent~ She tried very earnestly to feel sorry, for she b&amp;
lived it her duty to be so. She forced herself to remember
Carolyn's illness, and Archer's own suffering, in consequence
of the estrangement between them. But, oh! there lay that
picture before her eyes, with her own plain face idealized,
glorified up to a high, pure, divine beauty, such as it had
never, even in her highest, holiest, most inspired moods, pos-
sessed. And a voice from her profound heart whispered-
"Oh, yes, and he could ma1~e me r*lly beautiful and glori-
ous as his ideal there-for he could make me good, and glad,
and great beyond whatever I could make myself-if he
chose 1" She reproached her heart severely for its seduc-
VOL. L-45

176

4

i~
'I
r
I


178            THE CURSE OF CLIFTON.

tive whisper. She offered up a silent prayer to God to for..
give her, and save her soul from secret sin. She called her..
self foolish, presumptuous, treacherous. But, oh! in spite
of alL these, would sparkle up from the depths of her spirit,
sprays of gladness, as if there had suddenly sprung within
an everlasting fountain of joy. Yet again she blaixied her-
self most bitterly. She repeated that despairing complaint
or confession of David-.." The heart is deceitful above all
things, and desperately wicked." She almost realized its
truth. She silently cried to God to enter her heart, and ex-
pel its secret sin.
"Well, child! are you ready!" inquired Mrs. Clifton,
withdrawing her hands from her temples, and looking towards
the entranced girl. Kate did not hear or see, her soul and
senses were absorbed in the subject before her. Yet she did
not think or hope about the future. It was the present, the
present that absorbed her heart, despite of will, resistance
and conscience.
"Kate! are you asleep or in a trance ?" asked the lady,
gazing at her.
The maiden started, and blushed deeply.
"Catherine! what are you thinking of?" she repeated,
fixing her dark eyes upon the girl, until they seemed to burn
into her soul.
Kate looked guilty and bewildered, recovering herself by
an effort,, and answered, almost at random.-.
"This is not letter paper, madam, it is Bristol board."
"Oh, well! there is writing paper in the other department
of the desk, my child, get it out."
Kate examined the contents of the desk, and then re-
plied-.-
"There is no letter paper here, whatever, Mrs. Clifton."
"What are those ?"
"Only card boards and sketches, madam."
ketcheses. That is just like Archer, to keep his sketches
in his writing desk. his writing material will no doubt be
found in his portfolio. But let me see those sketches, Cathe-
rine; I have not seen lj~ni yet, and they will be something
new to me-almost like a recent letter from Archer. I like
to look over his drawings; they always mean something apart
from their subject, as it seems to me. I often think his

178

I

THE CURSE OF CLIFTON.            179
sketches form a running commentary, though an involuntary
One, on his life and thoughts! Hand them to me, my child.'
"These are only old historical ~subjects," said Kate, with
visible reluctance to produce them.
"Pass them over to me, my dear. If their subjects are as
old as the Chinese History of the Creation, they will never-
theless be eloquent to me of my son's present mood-of the
state of his heart, and the progress or the retrogression of his
ndnd. You cannot imagine, Catherine, the anxious curiosity
of a mother to catch furtive glimpses of the interior of that
heart she cannot always enter, and which is often hidden,
too, from its possessor! 'We know not what manner of
spirit we are of,' Catherine. For instance, do you know
ypur own heart or mind? In all hearts lie depths below
depths, never known to the owner until some earthquake of
sorrow, or of passiOns throw them open to view! There are
in all minds powers beyond powers of achievement or of en-
durance, unsuspected by their possessor until some emergency
calls them into action! But give me the drawings, Kate,
they will refresh me like a talk with Archer."
Catherine lifted them, en~ masse, and handed them to
Mrs. Clifton, who took and examined each separately and
leisurely.
"Um-m-Tkie," she said, smiling gently, as she recognized
their subjects :-"' Marguerite of France, at the Siege of
Pamietta,' 'Joan of Arc, at Rhiems,' 'Margaret of Anjou,
at St. Albans,' 'Last interview of Lord and Lady Russel,'
and all these battle-axe heroines, wearing the likeness of my
serious, domestic Catherine!* In truth, Archer has put you
through as many characters and costumes as though he de-
signed you for a tragic actress, in the heaviest line."
Kate Kavanagh did not like that.
"But two of these characters bear any affinity to you, my
dear. I cannot fancy any similitude between the tender and
fiery Marguerite~that 'falcon-hearted dove,' or her haughty
and remorseless namesake of Anjon, and ~my grave, gentle
Catherine. But the high and holy enthusiasm irradiating
Joan's face, and the noble resignation of Lady Russel's
countenance, suit your striking features very well. But I
am talking like a mediocre~ stage critic. Captain Clifton has
a very high opinion, Qf you, my Catherine. Pray try to


9

180

THE CURSE OF CLIFTON.

merit it, my dear girl!" concluded the lady, with a little
pardonable motherly ptidc.
Kate Kavanagh looked down, and fingered the pens and
wafers, for she felt the lady's eyes gazing through and through
her-reading her very soul.
"By-the-way, Catherine, 'have you seen Captain Clifton'5
last work of art'!"
"No, madam." (I wonder why she ealls him "Captain
Clifton" to me-she never did so before, thought Kate.)
"It is a highly finished miniature of Miss Clifton, painted
on ivory. He had it set in a plain gold locket, and has
taken it away with him. I saw him hang it around his neck,
and lay it near his hearth"
Catherine honestly believed that she was glad to hear this,
for it seemed one wore stay to keep her thoughts right.
"And' that, Catherine, is one reason among many others
I have, for knowing his indestructible' love for Carolyn. And
that is why I feel no hesitation in having this letter written,
to end this foolish quarrel, and to restore peace to these two
unha~5py young people," said Mrs. Clifton, looking, Catherine
thought, very strangely at her-so strangely, that the
maiden felt her cheeks burn with a vague sense of humiliation.
She asked herself-....(Y~uld' Mrs. Clifton have read what had
been passingin hoi~ mInd'! Well! if so-..-that was another
band to bind her thoughts to the right.
"LN~ow, then, to your task, my child. You will find paper
in Captain Clifton's portf~Aio." She spoke gently as ever to
Kate, but still called her son "Captain Clifton," as if to
widen the distance between them.
Kate felt troublQd at this, and then took herself to task for
a state of minc~ so morbidly acute to impressions, that she
noticed everything, even that trifle. She searched1and found
the;writing materials in the portfolio, and went to work and
wrote, from Mrs. Clifton's dictation, a letter, full of gentle
rebuke, and kind, motherly counsel, to Ai~cher Clifton. And
all to the end that he should write immediately, and recon-
ciLe himself to Carolyn, who was extremely ill, and whom his
mother fell assured, she said, that he must be most anxious
to propitiate. The letter was sealed and dispatched, and
the. l~dy, thoroughly worn out, and leaning upon the arm of
Catherine, sought her own bed-ohamber,

181

TIlE CURSE OF CLIFTON.

The next morning, Mrs. Clifton was so weary that she
could only leave her bed-chamber to lie upon the sofa in the
shady parlor, where she could be at hand to direct the opera-
tions of her house servants-now engaged in cutting out and
waking up the Fall clothing for the negroes. Catherine
came early to assist in this onerous task. It was in the
afternoon while the lady was still reclining on the sofa, aiid
Catherine standing at a work-table basting a linsey~wool5ey
frock~body-when a horse was heard to gallop up into the
yard, a man to jump off and hasten up the steps of the piazza,
and the instant, after, old Mr. Clifton entered~ the parlor,
looking very much flurried and alarmed.
"What is the matter'! I hope Carolyn is no worse
asked the lady, anxious, yet calm.
"No! Yes! A great deal better of course since the turn
last night! Most malignant form of the disease, and grow-
ing rapidly worse every hour. I tell yoz~ it is! The doctor
affirms it !"
Mrs. Clifton gazed at him in a sort of self~.posses5Cd per-
plexity.
"She has got the small-pox, madam."
"The small-pox !"
"Yes, madam, the confluent small-pox, in its worst form."
"You astonish me! I trust-I believe you are mis-
taken!"
"No-I wish to Heaven I was! No, madam! Doctor's
opinion !"
"Why, how on eartl4. Sit down, Mr. Clifton! Kate, my
dear, wheel that arm-chair around."
Catherine obeyed, and the old gentleman sank among its
* soft cushions, and took out his pocketA~andkerchief and wiped
his face.
"How on earth could she have got it'!" asked Mrs. Clifton.
"Ah! Lord Almighty knows! Came spontaneously, I do
suppose! You noticed those two pimples that appeared
upon her forehead after the crisis of her fever passed'!"
"Yes; but I thought nothing of them."
"Nor did we at the time. But at any rate, that was the
first appearance of the eruption"-little as we guessed it at the
time. You see, she naturally began to grow better when
this other disease began to break out, II suppose. Indeed, I
15~


182            ThE CURSE OF CLIFTON.                                                                183

have no doubt it was the coming of the sm~ill-pox, that ar-
rested the fatal termination of the brain fever. Well, you
see, last night after you had left her so much better, we en..
trtzsted her to the care of Zuleime, who did not seem to be
so much worn out with watching as the rest of us. So Zn.
leime sat up with her; and she tells me that before midnight
her face was sprinkled all over with those pimples. And
this morning, when I first saw her-" The old man~s Voice
broke down for a moment. "Oh ! it was dreadful! her
beautiful, fair face, neck, bosom, arms, all covered Over with
that horrible eruption It had all run together in one mass.
We sent off to hasten the arrival of the doctor, who, when
he came, pronounced the disease to be confluent small-pox.
Oh, it is horrible! horrible, even if her life be spared! Dis"
figured for life! What a fate for a woman! I drove Zuleime
~out of the room against her will-for she, dear, generous
girl, wished to stay and tend her sister. Georgia told me at
breakfast, that she had just got a letter from her father, who
was ill-and that she must have the carriage to-go to Rich-
mond. She did not show me the letter, for she made haste
and started almost immediately. Everything falls out disas-
trously at once. Now, what am I to do ~ I cannot procure
a nurse to that disease, for love or money, in this neighbor-
hood. Advise me what to do. The necessity is so urgent!"
Mrs. Clifton was now sitting up, supporting her he
her hand, and essaying her strength.     ,    ad upon
"I must go back, and nurse Carolyn myself."
"You! Now, never suppose, my dear sister, that I have
been hinting for you to return and finish killing yourself for
us! I would not permit it, if you wished it ever so much!
I'll lock and bar the doors and windows, to keep you out,
first. But think, and counsel me as to the best thing to be
done. There is no one at home but Zuleime~and even if I
were willing she should risk taking the - dreadful disease, she
is so very young and inexperienced that I should be afraid to
trust her sister's safety in her hands. ButI am* not willing
that she should run any risk to herself~that's flat. But
what's to be done ~"
"There is not a servant on your plantation, or on this
farm, fit to be trusted in such a case. I must go and take
care of my daughter myself!"

THE CURSE OF CLIFTON.

~'p-d if you shall, ma'am! I'll bar my doors and win-
dows against you, first, I tell you! Why, in your weak state,
it would be suicide !"
The lady maintained her purpose against Mr. Clifton's ve-
hement opposition, and her calm persistence must have con~
quered, but Kate Kavanagh mildly interposed, by saying- -
"Let me go."
"You! exclaimed Mr. and Mrs. Clifton, in a breath.
"Yes; I am not a bad nurse. I have had considerable
experience with sick people."
~~But~yOu'Ve never had the small~pox~.~you're not the
least marked!" said Mr. Clifton.
I,,
"No, sir, I have never had that disease.
"And you are willing to risk taking it V'
Yes, sir !"
"What! and you a young girl! Ain't you afraid of catch-
ing it, and having your face spoiled V'
"Yes, sir, I am afraid of contracting ~
"Why jhat is a plain contradiction of yourself; you say
you are willing to risk it, and ~fraid of catching it. - I do not
understand you at all."
~'Catherine is so simply truthful and straightforward !"
said the lady, smiling; "she means that she is perfectly con-
scioliS of the extent of the danger of contagion, but that she
thinks it her duty to brave it, nevertheless! Is. not that it,
my dear ~ IBut, Catherine, much as we thank you for your
generous self-devotion, we must not permit you to think of
going. I must do that, for I have had the disease. If you
were to persist in your purpose, my' dear girl, you would
almost certainly get the small-pox, and then your life, or at
the very least, your beauty, would be sacrificed."
"Beauty !".-If I had it and were to lose it, dear lady,'
there is no' one to care for it !"
"Yes, 1 should care for it, my Kate," said the lady, putting
her arm around the girl's waist, and drawing her closer.
"In fine, my good girl, you shall not go if you are afraid'
That's certain !" said Mr. Clifton.
"Oh, sir, that would not interfere with the faithful dis-
charge of my duties as nurse. You had best let me go, and
go at once, sir! There is no time to be lost, surely. Is any
competent person with Miss Clifton now, sir V'

/

182

183


184

TIlE CtXRsn or CLIIj'TON.

CC No one but a colored woman, and I really must hurry
back. And, so if you really do feel disposed to go, my dear
girl,-is she a good nurse, Mrs. Clifton ~"
"Excellent, sir! But indeed I do not like her exposing
herself in my stead. I should not permit her to do it, indeed,
if my power seconded my will," added the lady, sinking
back fatigued upon her sofa cushions.
Old Mr. Clifton was evidently inclined to accept Kate's
services. Mrs~ Clifton was obliged to yield,-.....more to tho
weakness that overpowered her frame than to the arguments
set forth by Catherine. It was settled, then, that Kate
should go. And she quickly put on her little straw bonnet
and black silk scarf, and entered the gig that the old gentle-
man borrowed from the lady to convey the girl to Clifton.

THE CURSE OF CLIFTON.

185

CHAPTER XIV.
THE DISCIPLINE OF AFFLICTION.
When through the deep waters I call thee to go,
The rivers of wo ~ha1I not thee overflQW,
For I will he with thee thy troubles to bless,
And sanctify to thee thy deepest distress.
When through fiery trials thy pathway shall lie,
My grace all-sufficient shall be thy supply;
The flame shall not hurt thee, 1 only design,
Thy dross to consume and thy gold to refine.
FARAPHRASE F~LOM ScIUPTUItE.

THE mansion-house at White Cliffs was all but deserted.
The very hou~e-serVant5, pretty mulatto girls, more afraid
of destroying their good looks than losing their lives, had
retreated to their own dens, feigning illness as an excuse to
keep out of t'he reach of contagion. Catherine was intro-
duced at once into the sick room. That sick room! What
mind can conceive, or what pen should describe it. Only
those who have nursed a patient through that worst form
of the most loathsome pestilence, can realize its revolting
horrors. To see any human being looking as the once beau-
tiful Carolyn now looked. Her very features almost oblite-
rated, while - fill up the pause, you who have seen the
horrors of that pest. It was worse than any form of illness
-it was worse than acath and decay. Disgust almost over-
mastered pity, and Catherine turned away, shuddering with
sickness of body and soul. Old Mr. Clifton cast one ago-
nized look upon the ruin, and unable to bear the sight,
rushed from the room. Catherine turned to her duty. The
wretched patient was tossing about in high fever, and tearing
her arms and bosom under the intolerable irritation. That
work of destruction must be stopped first Catherine knew.
Catherine caught her right hand, and it took all her strength
to hold that hand, whose flesh seemed as it~ it would drop off,

:4

4'.

44


V

TILE CURSE OF CLIFTON.

under the pressure, while she secured it to the bedstead.
Then she captured the other dashing, tossing hand, and con~
fined it in the same manner. And then she looked at the
state of her own palms. Oh, offensive duty! No wonder,
she thought, that the beautiful ~4eorgia had fled to Richmond,
and the two pretty house-maids were extremely ill in their
attic! Iliad she a wish to follow their example? No-for
now all selfish fears were lost in deep compassion for the
poor, forsaken wreck of beauty, that lay there at her mercy.
She return~' to her duty. She administered to her patient
an opiate, to soothe her restlessness. Took a sponge and
tepid water, and thoroughly cleansed the surface of the skin,
and anointed face, bosom and arms with a fragrant  emol-
lient, to allay the intolerable itching. She then released her
hands, and laid them easily upon the counterpane: Lastly,
she ventilated and darkened the chamber, and took her seat
by the bedside, to faii her patient while she slept. And deep
was her satisfaction in watching that quiet, refreshing sleep.
It is not my-intention to lead my reader through the dismal
days that followed in that sick room, until the "secondary
fever," the crisis of the disease, came and passed. Catherine
nursed her patient tenderly, faithfully, night and day. Ca-
rolyn's life was spared, but her peerless beauty was gone
forever. Her luxuriant, fair hair was all lost, and her head
was as bald and discolored as her face-and that!
In that darkened chamber, and in the midst of physical
suffering and weakness, Carolyn had had no Opportunity of
ascertaining the extent of the ravages the disease had made
in her beauty......if indeed she knew the nature of the former,
or thought about the latter. But as she convalesced, and
became able to sit up in bed and converse, she felt an in-
valid's childish curiosity to look in the glass, and frequently
requested her gentle nqrse to hand her one. But Catherine,
dreading the effect of the shock, steadily refused to comply
with her wishes in that respect, and perseveringly kept the
room darkened. And the sick girl, too weak to persist long
in any controversy, yielded the point.
But one day, while Ga.therine was at her breakfast, and
old iDarkey supplying her place by the bedside of the patient,
Carolyn said in a tone that adn4tted of no denial, or bven
delay..-~

TILE CURSE OF CLIFTON.

187

"IDarkey, ~1iand me that hand-glass from my dressing-
table."
And the old woman impulsively, thoughtlessly obeyed
her, and brought it. Carolyn was propped up in bed. She
took the mirror, gave one interested look into it-plucked
off her little cap-gave another hurried glance-and utter-
ing a long, low cry of despair, sunk back insensible upon
her pillow.
Old Darkey flew from the chair to ~ie patie an~d~ from
the patient to the bell, in great trep~i ~ation~r1~Igiflg peals
that brought all the household hurrying in alarm to the room.
Old Mr. Clifton, being nearest at hand, arrived first. And
when he saw and understood what had happened, he seized
the hand-glass, and threw it out of the window, and laid hold
of the heavy toilet mirror, and sent it flying 'after. Then he
drove old iDarkey from the room, forbidding her, for a stupid
and dangerous maniac, ever~ to show her face there again.
And all this time, Catherine, who had entered so quietly that
no one saw or heard her, was silently trying to restore the
swooning girl. As Carolyn, with a deep sigh, opened her
eyes, Kate motioned for every one to leave the chamber.
And all noiselessly withdrew. Carolyn shivered and shud-
dered several times, as she raised her eyes appealingly, des-
pairingly to Catherine, who was bending tenderly over her.
Catherine ~thought it best to answer that silent appeal by
speaking at once to the point.
"My dear Miss Clifton, you must not think that your face
will continue to look anything like it does now, for it will
not, indeed. For though it is very much discolored, it is not
much pitted, and the discoloration will wear off in a few
days. And as for your hair, Miss Clifton, that will grow out
very soon, and be even more beautiful and luxuriant than be-
fore, on account of the renewal of th kin-so, dear lady,
take comfort and do not look in the g ass again until you are
bettor." And all this time that Catherine stoke in this
gentle manner, she was bathing the~girl's face and hands
with bay water, and her tender touch was even more soothing
than the sedative liquid. Catherine was almost impelled to
say-" Have patience-bow to the will of God, and try to
learn the lesson He inten~ to teach in this." But she felt
the hour had not come for speaking such words. That she

186

p
'I

/


t
4''
~ '4
{4'

THE CURSE OF 0LIFToi~.

herself must have patience and wait for the time when she
might minister to her spiritual need.
Up to this period, Miss Clifton did not know who her nurse
was. Shc had heard her called "My dear child," or "My
good girl," by the physician and by her flither, and they were
the only visitors to the room, except old Darkey, who came to
relieve the nurse at meal times, ai~d who simply called her
"Miss." And if once or twice she had heard her called
Catherine i ill she~ever imagined her to be Kate Kava-
nagh, but some hire a endant. And, indeed, in the lan-
guor of illness she thoftght nothing about it. A few days
after this, however, when she had grown more composed and
resigned, and while she lay watching Catherine's quiet move-
nients through the room, she said-
"My dear, good girl-my gentle nurse-tell me your
name ~ I do pray sometimes, and I wish to know your name
that I may ask God to bless you for exposing life and health
and beauty for one whom mother, and sister, and servants'
all deserted." Just now, for the first time, it flashed like
lightning through Kate's mind that all the danger of infec-
tion was over, and that she might now thank God for preserv-
ing her from contagion. 'Yes ! ~she had forgotten herself for
some time past, but now he~ -h~art leaped for joy and grati-
tude, and she thanked God before she replied to Miss Clif-
ton's question,. and said-.-
"My name is Catherine Kavanagh."
"So !-you are Kate Kavanagh! Hoist up the blind.
Come to me. Let me look at you," said Miss Clifton, rais-
ing on her elbow. Smiling, because unconscious of the
hidden meaning in her words, Catherine approached and sat
down by her bed. And Carolyn took both her hands, and
"Fell to e perusing of her face,
As thou,, she'd learn it off by heart."
She pored over the' broad, square4orehead, looking strong,
but not beautiful, for all the bright chestnut hair Was pushed
carelessly aside-she gazed upon those dark gray eyes under
their long black fringes-such deep, transparent wells of
darkness and light they were.-she dwelt upon the' beautiful
lips, and then her glance roved *er the symmetrical form.
And she thought she had never seen so perfect a figure. And

THE CURSE OF CLIFTON. ~

she sighed and raised her eyes again to the remarkable coun-.
tenance, with its large features, pale and cadaverous now with
a long season of confinement, fatigue and loss of sleep, and
grave with thought, and earnest with deep feeling. And she
could not settle it to her satisfaction whether Kate Kavanigh
was a sublime beauty or a fright. Upon the whole, the girl
interested and pained her. And she continued to hold her
hands with a nervous grasp, and pore over her face and form
as freely as though she had been only a ~eadfull scinating
statue-while 1(ate blushed under the infliction, ~and finally
drew her hands away and sat down. ~
But every day Miss Clifton's confidence in, and esteem for
Kate Kavanagh, increased. And every day Catherine sought
to draw her. patient's soul to 'tl~e only true source of light,
strength and consolation; and to sanctify this terrible afflic-
tion to her spirit's good. The obligation to do this pressed
upon the girl's conscience heavily, as if it were the hand of
God. It was in vain that she said to herself, "I am nothing
but a weak, erring girl. It would be presumption in me to
speak. It might be received as impertinence, and do more
harm than good." Still the answer arose from the depths of
her heart, saying-" Speak the fitting words at the fitting
time, as they arise within your mind, for they are the inspira-
tion of God's spirit." And wisely, lovingly, reverently she
spoke them as occasion called them forth. The right thing
was always said at the moment it was needed. "Words
spoken in season are like apples 'of gold on p1a~es of silver."
Many a willing but bungling Christian would have failed to do
Carolyn any good, for Miss Clifton was a very difficult subject.
There is nothing so hard of impression as pride and scorn and
jealousy. It was the dominion of that infernal triumvirate
that made Lucifer an impracticable subject among the angels.
But Catherine was moved and guided b~a higher power than
herself. .Of herself she dared say nothing on Divine sub-
jects. She only spoke #aen strongly, irresistibly impelled
to do so. And her words were blessed to her patient and
sanctified to her own spirit.
Catherine had a powerful coadjutor in her good work. It
was the sorrow in Carolyn's heart.' And ah, who could sound
the depth of that sorroW4 Loving as passionately as she
had loved! Sinning against that love as cruelly as~ she had
VoL. L-16

4

188

4?
44
'4
'4'

/

44
4
4
*     K'
44
lb

- 189


4jj

190

TIlE CURSE OF CLIFTON.

sinned! Punished for her sin as terribly as she was pun
ished! And now ruined and hideous in person, and wrecked
and despairing in mind, to whom could she cry in her sharp
agony buf. to God ~-her Creator and Father !-Whose arm
was strong enough to lift her from that horrible pit but God's
-but God's ~ And the All-Powerful, the All-Merciful, was
4 helping her every day.
The great strength, the great vitality of her sorrow, was
the thong f Arch~ Clifton. Could she have hoped for a
reconciliation with him, however distant, all else might have
been borne. But wit~h that death's head of hers, such joy
might never be hoped-ought never to be wished. No, she
was as the leper, set apart from human love-at least from
conjugal and maternal love-forever and forever! This was
hard-this was well nigh intolerable!
4                 She would no more grace the saloon with her surpassing
loveliness-the pride of her fiiinily-the ornament of their
house. Her heart would no more sw~ll with exultation, when,
on entering the drawing-room, in the full glory of her peerless
beauty, she would hear a murmur of admiration pass through
the company. No. If she should ever enter a saloon again,
*        she would make a tremendous sensation, truly-but it would
be one of astonishment, pity, and perhaps disgust. And that
4               thought was dreadful, dreadful to the proud young belle! IBut
oh! it was as nothing to the feeling that her household gods
4k' 4
were broken and ruined forever-that her hopes of domestic
A'              happiness were gone forever!  For underneath all the pride
and vanity and scorn of the young belle had been the woman's
thought, the woman's hope of the coming long, calm days of
wife and mother joy. Yea, as surely as under the burnished
satin bodice had beat the heart of flesh! But all these were
over now; the proud, vain aspirations of the belle, and the
woman's deeper, pur~ hopes! Both crushed by one fell blow!
All was lost in the world! Nothing was left but Heaven!)
~
*                                  "IC God would take
A heart that earth had crushed."
Many are driven by the storms of life to the Heavenly Fa-
ther's bosom. It is for this that ~ie tempests of sorrow are
sent, and the sooner that Divine s nctuary is sought; the bet-
ter, for hard and hard~tr will beat the storm until its end is
V4
1'

TIlE CURSE OF CLIFTON.

answered. And too often all is lost, or seems lost, before
we consent to save ourselves. With Carolyn, all the trea-
sures of her youth were gone,-health and beauty, love and
hope. Something like this she breathed to Catherine, in a
weak, despairing mood,-for only in a miserably depressed
state of mind and body would the proud girl deign to com-
plain.
"Dear lady, do not say so sadly that 'allis lost~forever
lost.' Dear lady, nothing is ever lost. It is~ impossible.
The Lord, in His Divine Wisdom, may withdraw His gifts,
but they are not lost-they have gone into His keeping."
"I do not comprehend you! My poor good looks, such
as they were, are surely gone forever. Nothing can restore
their'! And oh, Catherine! you do not know-you cannot
understand all the blessings, the hope, and the joy of my life
fled forever! You are a child-yOii do not understand it !"
"Perhaps I do not, lady, and perhaps III do! Seek all
that you have lost in God! He has withdrawn His gifts,
your treasures, that He may draw you to Himself! They
are safe in His treasure house. If you have lost the beauty
of the fair roseate complexion, He can endow you with a
higher beauty, emanating from the sQul.. If you have lost
human love, He can satisfy your soul with the richness and
fullness of Divine love that never faileth! And for your
'broken earthly hopes, He can give you the Heavenly hope
that never dieth."
"Oh! but it is the lost earthly hope, personal beauty and
human love, that were so dear to me! So dear to me !" ex-
claimed the poor girl, bursting into a passion of tears.
"And He can restore even those! 'But seek ye first the
Kingdom of Heaven, 'ard all these things shall be added to
you.'"
"Ah, child! JV'othing but a mira~,le could give me back
dead happiness. And the days of miracles are over
"No! no! There is nothing in the Scripture to warrant
that saying. The days of miracles are not passed. Until
the days of human faith and Divine Omnipotence are past-
the days of miracles are not passed. Anything that seems
to me right that I should have, I will pray God-that if it
be right, He will give it ~e~though it should appear to my
tgnoran~e utterly impossible !" Then CatlAerin'3 abruptly

191                 4

I

44
4     ~4
~/4~
I
4:
44444'


4
g
S
r
V

stopped, fearing that she had said too much. And sh~
silently prayed for a faith that should be as far removed froni
presumption, as from despair.
Carolyn convalesced very slowly. It was weeks before
she left her bed. And then many more weeks before she left
her room.
It was a glorious day in Autumn, when she first walked
out upon the lawn, supported between Catherine and her
father. And as soon as she set foot upon the green sward,
some cattle that were browsing there-..by some caprice to
which cattle are subject~.~.started off as if seized by sudden
panic, and ran huddling together confusedly, and. precipi-
tating themselves towards the outer gate. And so weak Were
the poor invalid's nerves, and so morbid her mind, that she
burst into tears, and declared that gie very brutes fled from
before her face, as from one less human than themselves!
Nor could any argument- of Mr. Clifton's or of Catherine's,
disabuse her mind of this absurd idea. She begged Cathe-
rine to take her back to her chamber. And for many weeks
no entreaties could induce her to leave it.
Zuleune came freely to her sister now. She had her harp
brought into her broom. And she soothed the recluse with
music every day. And at last Kate Kavanagh, who had
gradually merged from nurse into companion, added her own
rich, full-toned voice in accompaniment. The Misses Clifton
were both very much surprised to see -this" gift of gracious
nature" thrown away upon a poor girl, with no hopes or
prospects but manual labor for her living. And Zuleinie,
who could be thoughtful and benevolent in the midst of
'anxiety and sorrow, proposed to give Catherine lessons on the
harp. But this was soon stopped. J*~th Zuleime and Cathe-
rine perceived that the music, far from soothing, seemed to
~irritate the invalid. And for this reason, Carolyn had lost
her voice. She could never sing again. And even in speak-
ing, her tones were harsh and rough. The harp was ban-
ished, and books were brought. And while Zuleime worked,
and Carolyn fondled a little King Charles, that had been
bought for the childish invalid, Kate read aloud to the sis-
ters. And now it was that the world of written poetry
broke upon the maiden's delighted view. Before this, she
had never read a line of poetry in her life, except hymns-

for Mrs. Clifton had judiciously suppressed all books of that
nature. But now the treasures of Milton, Goldsmith, and -
Cowper, were opened to her ardent mind! Oh, those days
that followed the convalescence of Miss Clifton-those even-
ings after Carolyn had gone to rest, when she and Zuleime
would go into the summer-saloon and spend the-hours in mu-
sic or poetry, or in talk as musical, and as poetic. Those
evenings, spent with a refined, warm-hearted girl like Zn-
leime-theY were unfitting her for her prospective hard life
of coarse labor and coarser association. She felt that it was
so. And she determined to leave. She only waited until
Mr. Clifton went to Richmond and brought back his wife.
And then she bade them all good-bye and returned home-
not to the farm-house of Jlardbargain, but to her bTother
Carl's cabin.
She needed to commune with herself, and be still. She
wished to descend into the unsounded abysses of her heart,
and examine, though with awe, the mystery of iniquity that
in some unguarded hour had germinated there-this growing
passion for a man betrothed to another. No matter if the
marriage was broken off for the present. They loved each
other. And that was the true betrothal. As for herself,~she
would, with the grace of God, turn out this dangerous bosom
guest, so divinely fair as td seem like an angel of light rather.
than the tempting demon that it was! And to do this effectu-
ally, she must break every tie that held her to that fair illu-
sive life she had lately led. She must forsake every associa-
tion connected with her sin and folly. 'She lov~d Mrs.
Clifton-~loved her first for herself alone, and then as the
mother of-one whose name she dared not now to breathe
even to herself. She enjoyed the congenial society and oc-
cupation~ at White Cliffs and at Rardbargain. And now she
was the most welcome visitor on ~the list of both families.
Thit she must forego the privilege this gave her. More 1~han
all, she had enjoyed her -pleasant life at Hardbargaifl. ~he
cheerful housekeeping cares she had shared with its mistress
-the conversations over the pleasant tea-table or the social
work-stand-the books, the newspapers, and the evening
music, and the society of the admirable Mrs. Clifton-these
formed the externals, the body of her happiness; but the
interior, the soul of her joy, was that there was the home of
16~                      /

'192           THE CURSE OF CLIFTON.                                                            198
TIlE CURSE 013' CLIFTON.

1.
4
4
0
A
I

g

198


I
A
I i
A
#2
~A. ~
~A J ~
4~Ai1~
I A
It
Al
I

fiB OtYRS1~ O~ CLIFTON.

i4rcher Clifton-.--the place pervaded by his spirit! r~dole~
of him! But all these must be abandoned! They might
have affinity for her nature, but they did not belong to her
lot in life. And see what they had brought her to! Even
to an insane passion for her benefactor! And flow it was
high time she httd come to her senses and self~recollection
She was a poor girl, of the humblest birth-born in poverty
and destined to poverty. She must leave off spending even~
ings with refined and accQmplished young ladies in elegant
saloons, if she wished to do her duty in that station to which
God had called her. And she must give up the society of
Archer Clifton's mother, if she wished to forget him. And
she must betake herself to the coarse, hard, but dutiful life
of her brother's cabin.
Catherine went no more to White Cliffs or to flardbargain.
And when Mrs. Clifton sent for her to come and spend a day,
she returned a gentle answer that she could not leave her
grandfather*

TIlE CIJRSE OF CLIFTON.

19~5

UflAPTER XV.
TUE BLACK SEAL.
Tier eyes unmoved, but full and wide,
Not once had turned to either side-
Nor once did those sweet eyelids close,
Or shade the glance on which they rose;
But rotln(l their orbs of darkest hue,
The circling white dilated grew-
And there with glassy gaze she stood,
As ice were in her curdled blood.-BYftON.
Trn~ evening was 0hjlly-jU5t chilly enough to make the
novelty of the first fie~ of the season a luxury. And so Zu-
leime had ordered a bright little fire kindled in the parlor,
and the tea-table set out there. And she had changed her
white muslin dress for a fine crimson poplin one, and began
to think of the pleasant autumn evenings, when all the family
would gather around the hearth, with needle-work and books,
and social chat. And, like a child, she was forgetting the
threatening dangers that lay before her, and those she loved
-her father's troi~ble, Major Cabell's expected arrival,
Frank's peril in distant warfare, the difficulties of her own
position-all were for awhile forgotten, iu the dream of
cheerful fireside affection and comfort, as site moved about
the room, closing blinds, dropping curtains, and wheeling
easy-chairs up cnear the fire, and thinking with what a flue
smile of genial satisfaction her father would come in and look
around upon the change before he dropped himself into that
largest easy-chair. 1~vIr. Clifton had ridden to the village,
but was expected back to tea. And there sat the tea-table,
a little aside, to be clear of the chair, near the fire-place, and
radiant with snowy damask and shining silver.
Carolyn came in, pacing softly, slowly, and turning her
eyes around the room with a look of languid approval, she
ank into an ar~n-chair. ~uleime went to her immediately,

194

4
At

A,      A
A A~A

{ A
L


Ii
I
i
~ k
1$
I

TILE CURSE OF CLIFTON.

and relieved her of the large shawl she had wdrn through the
chilly passages, and closed her dressing-gown, and settled
the lace border of the delicate little cap, and placed the
softest cushion under her feet, and then kissed her forehead,
but did not speak. Carolyn repaid her with a silent look of
affection. Since the, departure of Catherine, Carolyn had
sunk into a sort of mute despondency, in spite of all the care
and affection of her sister, for it was her moral nature that
needed help, and the young Zuleime could not
"Minister to a mind diseased."
Mrs. Georgia Clifton entered, and silently glided to her
seat. Unconsciously, Georgia became a dark and terrible
picture. She sat upon a low ottoman, at the corner of the
fire-place, her head supported by her hand, and all her gut..
tearing ringlets falling like a glory down each side of her
darkly splendid face. And through that strong light and
shadow her form palpitated, her bosom heaved and fell, her
moist lips dropped apart, and her ey~ gleamed with a set,
steady fire, as though some passionate trance wrapt and spell-
bound her soul.
Zuleime was moving about the room, and giving directions
to a servant, who had brought in cakes and preserves. Finally
she sat down, and took out her knitting-..-it was a pair of
white lamb's wool socks, for her father-and knitted while
she waited. She had not long to wait.
The door swung open silently, and Mr. Clifton entered,
with a newspaper in his hand, but looking so shocked and
troubled, that all, with one accord, raised their eyes in silent
inquiry.
"Poor Frank! poor Frank 1" exclaimed the old man, as
if he was ready to burst into a passion of tears.
"What !-what of Frank'?" asked a faltering, gasping
voice, which he could not recognize as belonging to either of
the three young women present..-.yet answered, mechani-
cally.-...
"Those bloody Redskins! Those ghastly, horrible Sava-
ges !" he cried, throwing himself into a chair.
"There-there has been so me fighting! Is-----........~
Tell me !-tell me! You know what I want to knot. is
.~rcher safe ?" exclaimed Carolyn, bending forward. While,

THE CURSE OF CLIFTON.

197

sallow and fierce, the eyes of Georgia gleamed the terror and
anxiety she dared not express!
"Archer is safe !" said Mr. Clifton.
And the light of a sudden joy flitted across Georgia~s dark
faee,-and Carolyn sank back, with a look of grateful relief.
And no one noticed Zuleime. And no on&amp; knew that she
had spoken.
"Yes! Archer is safe! Thank God! And a thousand
times thank God, that Archer is safe! But Frank !-poor
Frank! My God what a fate! Who shall tell his mother'?"
"For Heaven's sake !-what has happened to Mr. Fair-
fax'?" asked Georgia.
"There! There! Read for yourself," replied the old
man, getting up, and handing her the paper. He did not
mean that she should read aloud, perhaps-but he forgot-
he was confused with trouble.
And she took the paper, and read :-~" FROM TIlE INDIAN
FRONTIER HORRIBLE MASSACRE NEAR FORT
PROTECTION.DisPatehes from our Western frontier
bring the most painful account of a horrible massacre of a
part of our troops by the Indians, in the vicinity of Fort
Protection. On Monday, the 15th ultiino, a small recon-
noitering party left the Fort, under the command of Lieu-
tenant Fairfax. They had proceeded about a mile on their
way, when they fell into an ambuscade of Indians, and were
cut to pieces in the most shocking manner. The body of
Lieutenant Fairfax, in particular, was so horribly mutilated
as to be scarcely recognizable. The full particulars of the
massacre, given below, are copied from the 'National Sen-
tinel.' "
Then followed a long account of the catastrophe, with
every revolting circumstance detailed with horrid distinctness.
The old man heard and groaned at intervals. Carolyn
shuddered and wept by turns. And even Georgia's voice
broke down for pity and horror. But she-the wife-the
widow-she-the fearfully bereaved-she sat and listened to
all the murderous story. She heard all-all. How he had
been set upon by six or seven-.--hoW he had singly battled
with them, when all his party. were lying dead around him-
how then he tried to escape such fearful odds-how he was
foiled, and dragged down from his horse-the young,

196

V

Q
I


ji98             TILE CURSE OF CLIIi'TON.                                                                   199~

warm, beating heart was cloven through-.the fair hair torn
from the bleeding skull-the fingers chopped off for the sake
of the ring..- Frank wore but one-a simple gold ring, with
a coral set, that she had taken from her slender fore finger,
and contrived to squeeze past the joint, and get it comfortably
upon his little finger. And they had cut it off in their haste
to get it. How real that trifle made the whole horror, that
might else have seemed like a nightmare! She sat and
heard it all-all. And no motion, no tear, no cry escaped
her.
At last, when the reading was over, and they were re-
leased from the spell of horror, old Mr. Clifton thought of
Zuleime, and feared its effect on her. He turned to look at
her. At first he saw nothing amiss.
She eat so naturally, though still, with her knitting in her
hands, as though only stopped for an instant, and her face
turned in a listening attitude toward Georgia, who had ceased
to read.
* "It is all over-there is no more to hear, Zuleime, my
darling," said the old man.
But she did not move or speak. She seemed to look and
~listen intently.
"Zulejine," said her father gently.
She remained perfectly still.
"Zuleime !" he exclaimed, in a louder tone. She did not
hear.
..." ZULEIME! !" he cried, a third time, going towards her,
to seize her shoulder.
But he started back in aifright. They were all gazing at
her now.
"My God! she is DEAD ejaculatedted the father.
"She is MAD !" exclaimed Georgia.
They gathered around her. She knew it not. She sat
there as if frozen into that attitude.-.-her face white and
hard- -her lips bloodless and stiff, and her eyes still fixed
towards the spot from which Georgia had been reading, but
beyond it-beyond it-into the far distance, as if fascinated
by some spectacle there of unutterable horror!
"Zuleime! what are your looking at? Speak to me, my
child !" cried her father, in great distress.
'He might as well have expected a statue to speak.

TILE CURSE OF CLIFTON.

Carolyn took the knitting away, which, through all this,
had dangled between her stiff, unconscious fingers. Georgia.
rubbed her hands. Carolyn bathed her face. The old man
cried to her-all in vain! They might as well have performed
these offices for the dead.
They lifted her up, and laid her on a sofa-her limbs
hanging helplessly, like those of a dead or swooning girl.
J3ut she was neither dead nor swooning. Wherever they
moved her, her eyes were still fixed, in that bright, burning,
horrible stare, upon the distance, as though the vision of the
ghastly spectacle that had been conjured up before her
imagination, followed her wherever she was turned.
They took her up stairs, undressed and put her to bed.
All night long she lay in th'e same state.
In th~ morning there was no change, except that the
muscles of the face had fallen, the cheeks sunken, the chin
dropped, and that concentrated, intense gaze into vacancy,
was more burning bright than ever. It was as though a
burning soul was consuming the unconscious flesh to death.
Or as if a body were turning to dust and ashes with the spirit
still imprisoned in it.
"She is sinking, and must die, unless she can be n~oved
to tears," said the doctor.
But what should move her to tears? Was there anything
on earth that she could weep for now? Her old gray father
had knelt, weeping, by her bedside, and torn his silver hair
in anguish, without causing a single eyelash to quiver over
that fixed, burning eye! What should make her weep?
Plaintive music? She could not be made to hear it! The
very songs that she and Frank had sung together? The
sound was drowned in the groans from that scene of
blood!
Mrs. Clifton, of Ilardbargain, had come over, but though
she was a woman of great skill and experience, all her efforts
failed to rouse the girl from that fearful trance, which seemed
likely to end in death.
"Send for Catherine! If any one in the world can do
her good now, it will be Catherine. There is, besides,'a
Free-Masonry between girls of the same age, that makes
them instinctively understand each other. If a child were
in a stupor, I should certainly send its favorite playmate-

i

7-'
-4

998

199,


200             TIlE CuRsE OF CLIFTON.
another child.-as the most likely being to rouse it," said
Mrs. Clifton.
"Ah! My Lord !-this is worse than any stupor! I
wish to Heaven she would fall into a stupor," replied the
father.
"I know it! For her mind is not dulled, but seems
wrought u~ to the highest pitch, and intent upon some im-
Tb
aginary vision of horror. She must be brought out of it.
She must be subdued. Send for Catherine."
Mr. Clifton went himself in the gig, to bring the kind
girl.
When Catherine arrived, and while she stood by the
side of the stricken, insensible girl, Mr. Clifton said to
her-.
"You see, my dear child Zuleime seems to have been very
much attached to this poor young man. And the news, of
his horrid death was broken to her suddenly, and it has JnRt
thrown her into this state! Look at her eyes! What do
you think they see-in imagination, Ii mean ~?"
"They see that scene of massacre-they see the death of
her lover," said Kate, looking piteously at her friend-(for
Zuleime wa~ her friend)-and brooding deeply Over some
idea.
"The doctor says she must die if she cannot be made to
weep! Oh, Katey, my dear, dear girl! If you can only
make her weep! I will give you-i was going to say-I
would give you half of all I have in the world! Come, try!
That's a good girl! You girls all know each other's little
fool-secrets and love nonsenses. Come, try. Do you want
to be left alone with her ~"
Kate sh6ok her head in that quick way usual to her when
strong feeling kept her silent-but she added-
"Give me her keys."
The old man seemed surprised, but looked about and dis-
covered the required articles in her little work-basket, and
handed them to Kate.
"I only want to search and see if I cannot find some-
thing that was his-some little token or keepsake, you
know."
The old man took his station at the foot of the bedwhile
Kate pursued her search. She knew what she was looking

TILE CURSE 013' CLIFTON.         201
for, it was a curl of fair hair. She had caught a glimpse of
it once-when Zuleime had opened a box in her drawer, and
had immediately shut it again with a deep blush. And now
she knew whose hair it was; and that the sight of it would
bring tears to those burning eye-balls, and consciousness to
that frenzied brain. She found it. She could have wept
herself as she raised it from its little hiding place. She took
it to the bedside-put her hand gently over those glaring
eyes to darken them, and break the spell if possible, and
then lifting her hand off again, she held up the lock of hair
by the end, letting it drop into a fair shining ringlet before
the eyes of the girl, as she said-
"Zuleime, do you know whose hair this is V'
The poor scathed eye-balls flied upon it-softened
melted from their searching glare-a change came over her
face-she extended her hand, and caught the tress as if fear-
ing to lose it; and pressed it with both hands to her heart.
Then her bosom began to heave convulsively, as with a great
coming agony. Catherine caught her up, for she seemed
about to suffocate. It was only the coming of the flood of
tears-yes, the flood, for she fell upon Catherine's sustaining
bosom, and sobbed and wept-such a deluge of tears, that
the girl's dress was dripping wet, and it grew a wonder where
so much came from. And Catherine's heart was smitten,
and she wept, too-wept till she grew so weak she could
scarcely sustain her burthen. And then old Mr. Clifton
came around and relieved her, taking Zuleime into his arms
and laying her head against his shoulder, saying-
"There, cry! Cry on its father's neck, as much as it
wants to! It shall cry its fill, poor thing! poor little heart-
broken thing !"
And she did, abundantly !-but pressed and kissed her
father's neck the while for his tender words. This melted
down the old man's heart so that he said-
"They shan't plague you! None of them shall! Charley
Cabell shan't come here to trouble you! That he shan't.
Come what will; you shan't be forced to marry him! No,
no, my darling-my poor little heart-broken darling~ you.
shan't! I'll see him in perdition first! And myself, too!
There, don't stop! Cry it all out on father's neck! Don't
dop! Catch your breath and begin again! That's right!
VOL. L-47


202             THE CURSE OF CLIFTON.
That's a good girl! Oh, she'll cry a plenty this bout. Once
I couldn't bear to hear women cry! It was because I did
not know that if the grief was not cried out, it would stay in
the heart and burst it! I will never try to stop a woman
from crying again. Cry on, my poor little thing !" And so
most ten~lerly, but half"childishly, the old man talked, and
petted, and cooed over her.
Catherine slipped down stairs to prepare tea and toast.
When she came back, she found Zuleimelying back upon
the pillow exhausted, but composed, and still pressing the
little lock of hair. Catherine set dowi~ the little waiter, and
took a bowl and napkin and washed her face with cologne
and water, and then brought the cup of tea.
Zuleitne shook her head mournfully.
Catherine stooped and whispered.
"For your father's sake, dear. Look at him."
Zuleime raised her eyes to the old man's grief-worn, anxious
face, and then extended her hand for the cup, and drank the
tea.
While Zuleime was resting in Catherine's arms and drink-
ing the tea, a knock was heard at the door, and when Mr.
Clifton opened it, a servant appeared and told him that Major
Cabell had arrived, and wished to speak with him.
And the old gentleman set his teeth, and immediately went
below.

TIlE CURSE OF CLIFTON              203
CHAPTER XVI.
MR. CLIFTON'S RESOLUTION.
Full many a storm on this gray head has beat,
And now on my high station do I stand,
Like the tired watchman in rocked tower,
Who looketh for the ho~ir of his release.
I'm sick ofworldly broil, and fain would be
With those who strive no more.-JoANNA BAILLut.
"WELL, old two pence ha'penny, how d' y' do ~ Family
all well at last, eh ?" said Major Cabell, advancing to meet
Mr. Clifton, as he entered the parlor.
The old gentleman extended his hand gravely, and wel~
corned his visitor to White Cliffs. Then he rung the bell and
ordered refreshments, but Major Cabell declined the latter,
and inquired after the ladies.
"My family are all in affliction! ID-n it, Charley, you
know it! Curse that Indian war! ~y dear Carolyn scarcely
recovered from the effects of that loathsome pestilence, be-
fore here comes the news of that hideous massacre of poor
Fairfax and his men, and just overwhelms my little Zu-
leime !"
"Zuleime ~ My dear little wife ~ I trust that nothing has
been permitted to afflict her P'
"The news of Fairfax's horrible death shocked her into
a sort of appalled ecstacy, which lasted for twelve hours!
And from which she was only roused to break into such tears
and sobs, as I never heard before, and hope never to hear
again.~~
The old man wished to prepare Major Cabell, gradually, for
the announcement he intended to make of the marriage about
to be broken off. lie wished to touch his heart, to excite
his sympathy, to awaken his generosity. He even hoped-
for people will have wild hopes in extremity-that Major


204             TIlE CURSE OF CLIFTON.
Cabell might anticipate his wish, and resign his claims, lie
never was more mistaken in his life!
Major Cabell listened in grave silence to his speech, and
then in high displeasure, exclaimed~...
"Bymy soul, sir! this is a very astonishing and most
offensive thing, you. tell me! Why should Zuleime grieve
thus immoderately over the death of this young officer. Will
you explain that ?"
"Yes! I might say-because he was her intimate con~..
panion in her own home all the summt~r~and was soon after
leaving it, so barbarously slaughtered. That is quite a soul-
cient reason for the tender-hearted child to grieve excessively,
But I will not deceive you, Major CabelL She loved this
poor young man !"
"Sir! Mr. Clifton! By Heaven, sir ~
"It cannot be helped, Charley! Hearts cannot be bound
by parchment and red tape! She loved this poor Frank
Fairfax~and her heart is broken by his sudden, dreadful
loss. Her grief, poor thing, must have its way! She shall
not be troubled !"
"And pray, sir," began Major Cabell, speaking with de-
liberate scorn~~" how long shall this faithless girl be per-
mitted to weep over the memory of that fellow, before she
is required to give her hand to one who might have claimed
it as his right long ago ?"
"Charles Cabell," said the old man, speaking slowly and
sadly, "is it possible that you can~that any man could wish
to marry a broken-hearted girl, mourning over the grave of
her freshly murdered lover !"
"Wish to marry her? Wish to marry Zuleime? Give
her to me! Give me Zuleime! Only give her to me, and
then see! She is my right! I claim her by your promise-
and I would take her now!"
"But you are certainly mad! You would be miserable
with her!"
"Should I? That is my affair! Only give her to me!
Come! let me have her to-day, or to-morrow, and I will take
her home to Ri~hmond with me," said Major Cabell vehe-
mently, almost fiercely.
Old Mr. Clifton looked up at him in surprise, amounting
almost to fear.

205

TH~ CURSE OF CLIFTON.

Have I ever described Major Cabell to y~ii? lie was a
small man, with clear cut, sharpened features, and pale face,
surrounded by light brown hair and whiskers, with very
handsome dark brown eyes, but with a certain latent ferocity
in the eyes, and grimness about the thin, set lips. Somehow
or other he irresistibly reminded you of a hyena~~eSPeciallY
when he happened to laugh that thiiY, ungenial laugh.
The old man looked at him in surprise, almost amounting
to fear, and then he said-
"But she does not love you now! She cannot love you
yet! She loves Frank in his shroud better than any one left
alive !"
"I do not care! She must forget Frank, and love me!
Women can be made to feel or feign anything, by one who
understands them.~~
"But her heart is breaking, I tell you !"
"It must stop breaking, and nerve itself to life."
"She is weeping her life away! She is a Niobe,~ I tell
you! A living fountain of tears !"
"She shall dry them and smile! See if I do not make
her do it! Pooh! it is baby love, all this! IDo you think
a girl of her age, can feel any lasting love, or grief, or en-
during passion of any sorf at all? Pooh, pooh! I tell you
if her lap-dog were killed, she would blubber and weep as
much over its death, as she does over this other puppy's fate!
But, once for all, Mr. Clifton, I tell you I do not intend to
be put off, or in any way annoyed by this girl's grief and
petulance. It is not well for you, her, or myself, that it
should be indulged. Give her to me at once, according to
your promise, and afterward I shall know how to deal with
her-far better than you seem to know."
"And you really wish to marry her in her present state,
and take her home with you ?"
"Yes! What ~objection? A wedding-party is not an in-
dispensable accessory to the ceremony. A bridal journey
from here to Richmond would be a very good substitute.
Indeed, since the catastrophe of the last wedding-party
at Clifton, I think the bridal journey would be in the best
taste "4
"Umph! And you would marry her so, and so take her
away ?"

*


I

206

TIlE CURSE OF CLIFTO~f.

"Certainly."
"Brute I"
"Sir'!"
"BRUTE, I say! She would rather lie down with Frank
in his bloody grave than marry you! And I would rather
lay my child there-.-.ALrvE.......than give her to you! There!
it is said! Now, I hope you understand me'!"
Major Cabell brought his two. fierce brown eyes to bear
upon Mr. Old Gentleman, and gazed as if he thought him
bereft of his senses. Then he spoke in a peculiarly thin,
smooth, distinct voice-.
"Do you mean what you say, sir'!"
"Yes I do! There !"
" And have you duly considered this, sir'!"
"Yes I have! There !"
"And you know and are prepared to meet the conse-
quences'!"
"Yes! Do your worst! There !" said the old man, set-
ting down his foot.
Major Cabell arose and walked up arid down the floor in
deep, perplexed thought. To say that he was surprised at
this sudden, unexpected rebellion and daring on the part of
Mr. Clifton would not be sufficient. He was just astounded,
and could not surmise where the strength of the old man to
oppose him, with his claims and his power, could come from!
lie thought some external aid had been given! lie never
guessed that it was the internal victory of conscience over
cowardice.
Old Mr. Clifton also arose and stretched himself, expand-
ing his chest, and taking a long, deep breath of i~itense relief
and satisfaction, saying-.-...
"Thank Heaven, I feel better. Feel more like a man
than I have felt for ten years. Now let the worst come, I
can meet it !"
Major Cabell glanced sideways at him, and continued his
thoughtful pacing up and down the floor, lie was possessed
with a sort of ferocious passion for Zuleime, a passion fanned
to fury by opposition, lie was not one to bend his pride to
sue. And yet he must have her! Soon, too!
Old Mr. Clifton, now feeling and looking so mu4 better
iind franker, and remembering that Major Cabell was his

207

THE CURSE OF CLIFTON.

guest as well as his relative, went up to him and held out his
hand, saying, heartily-
"Chancy, give me your hand! I do not know what you
are going to do, but III know that I am ready to meet what
comes! In olden times mortal foes shook hands before they
entered upon a deadly combat. In our times the executioner
and his victim exchange courtesies. And the humanity of it
is a touching comment upon the cruel necessities of our legal
and social code. Let us not be more ungracious adversaries
than they. Give me your hand. You are welcome to Clifton
as long as you please to give us your company. Sport is
good now on the mountains, and you can amuse yourself as
you please.~,
~vlajor Cabell paused in his walk, and placed his hand in
the open palm of Mr. Clifton, saying-
"I will take you at your word, sir! 1 will remain your
guest for a few days. IL will hope that what you have said
in regard to the marriage of myself and your daughter, has
been spoken in haste, and under the influence of anger. I
trust that you will review your words. To-day you speak from
exeitement~~to~~morrow I hope that judgment will dictate
your reply. You will remember that I, too, had something
to complain of in the fact that my affianced bride, or one that
I considered such, should have been so ill guided, or so illy
guided 'herself, as to suffer her affections to fall into this en-
tanglement. But we will say no more about it now, for I see
Mrs. Clifton about to enter."
Georgia entered indeed, smiling.
Old Mr. Clifton seized the opportunity, and while Major
Cabell was paying his devoirs to the beauty, excused him-
self and left the room to go and see how Zuleime was getting
on, and to reassure her if necessary.
As soon as he had left the room, Georgia drew Major Ca-
hell off to a distant sofa. And they sat down and entered
upon a long, confidential conversation. And when it was
ended, they arose and separated with looks of great satisfac-
tion.

&amp;


208

THE CURSE OF CLIFTON.

CHAPTER XVII.
~HE WIDOWED BRIDE.
Her look composed, and steady eye,
Despoke a matchless constancy,
And there she sat, so ctdni and pale,
Tbat but her breathing did not fail,
And motion slight of eye and head,
And of her bosom warranted
That neither sense nor pulse she lacks,
You might have thought a form of wax,
Wrought to the very 'rife was there,
So still she was, so pale, so fair.-Scovr.
A FEW days after the incidents recorded in the last chap-
ter, Mrs. Georgia Clifton entered Zuleime's room. The poor
girl was sitting in an arm-Qhair near the window, idle, as was
never her habit before, with her hands lying languidly one
over the other and her eyes fixed upon vacancy.
The beauty went to her with her soft, winning way, and
took her hand, and stole her arm over her shoulder, and said,
tenderly-
"Zuleime, my love, do not sit here by this open window.
Let me close it, and lead you to the sofa."
Thereis nothing so quiet as despair, except death. There
is nothing so, docile as despair often is. The beauty knew
this by a satanic inspiration, and calculated on it. Zuleime
suffered herself to be led to the sofa, which was wheeled up.
near the fire, as she would have permitted herself to be led
auy, where else. Georgia sat down by her side, and passed
het arm around her waist, and said-
"My dear, I think you love your old father-do you
not~"
The poor girl raised her eyes mournfully to the lady's
face, as if she did not understand~
"You love your father. You would not be willing to
see him ruined in fortune, and degraded in honor, would
you ?"

I

THE CURSE OF CLIFTON.

209~

Still Zuleime kept her eyes fixed upon the speaker, with
an expression of hopeless imbecility. ~
"My dear child, let me be explicit. And try to under-
stand me, Zuleime. It is of vital necessity to your father
that you should. Will you listen to me, Zuleime 'P'
"Yes," said the mourner, mechanically, without remo~ring
her gaze.
"Well, then, you know your grandmother left you thirty
thousand dollars ~ Well. Your father owes debts amount-
ing to twenty-five thousand dollars, and is in danger of an
execution or a prison, every day! You would willingly give
him your fortune to pay his debts with, we know. But, un-
fortunately, you cannot do it, because you are not of age.
Neither can your father appropriate it, of course. But if
you were to marry, then your husband would be in legal
possession of that property, and could dispose of it. Now,
Major Cabell has bought up your father's notes to the
amount of eighteen thousand dollars, using all his available
funds, for the purpose of saving him from great distress, and
in the expectation of marrying you, his daughter, and ob-
taining your little fortune, which would replenish his cofli3rs
again. Now, Zuleime, Major Cabell is himself pressed for
money. He would not, of course, come down upon your
father with an execution, but he will be compelled to sell
those notes again for whatever he can get for them. And
then of course the purchaser-some Jew or broker, would
have no such scruples, but would levy on all the personal
property of his debtor, and most likely throw him into prison,
where he might languish for years-where he might die!
Zuleime! you will not suffer this, if you can prevent it, will
you ~ Speak to me, my love! I do not believe you under-
stand me. now! Why don't you answer me, Zuleime ~"
"I-I don't know. Yes I do. It was about a-about a
-about somebody's going to prison. Was it the murderer ~
Alas, that will not bring him back. Neither do I wish it.
Not even I, who loved him so. I would not make any body
suffer, for the world. Oh, no."
The beauty looked at the pale girl in deep perplexity a
moment, and then said-
"Zuleime, your father is suffering! Let's see if that will
rouse you !"


TIlE CURSE OF CLIFTON.                                        THE CURSE OF CLIFTON.          2t1

"My father? Oh, no, he mustn't. Tell him not to' mind
it. I do not, much, now. I know he is at rest.. And we
shall be, soon. Tell him not to mind it."
"Zuleime! Awake! Arouse yourself! Your father is in
danger, I tell you'!"
"In danger-in danger. Tell me about it."
"Listen to me, then! Rouse your mind! and fix it
upon what I am going to tell you about your father's peril."
And the lady took her hands and looked into her eyes,
watching their expression, and bringing back her wandering
ideas every time they showed the least sign of flying, and
rousing up her flagging intellect every time it betrayed a
disposition to sink-and so repeated the whole history of the
difficulty over again. But the distracted mind of the poor
girl was' scarcely able to follow the pains~.taking narrator
through the facts of the case. Passing her hand once or
twice across her corrugated brow, she said-
"What-what is it you say about father, and prisons, and
Major Cabell? I-I am afraid my memory isn't as good as
it used to be-please tell me over again."
The beauty, wjth a shrug of her shoulders, reiterated the
story, placing it in the fewest, simplest, ~and most direct
words she could find. But the stricken girl only looked
sorely distressed and perplexed, and said, plaintively-
"Please forgive me, and tell me what it is that threatens
father !"
"An execution-that will sweep off all the furniture from
the house, and all the negroes from the plantation; parting
husbands and wives, and parents and children, and brothers
and sisters, among those poor, faithful creatures who love
you so well. , for your father's person, a jail, where he
may be for years, or until he dies."
"Oh, pray doli't talk to me any, more, my head is so wild,
so wandering, it wants to go back to something," said the
poor thing, pressing her temples, and strongly attracted to
her one great wo.
"But your father!"
"Yes! Oh, only tell me what you want me to do !"
"To nrnrry Major (Jabell, who will then have the disposal
of your fortune, and can cover those notes and save your
father."

* "But-oh, yes! Now "I remember. Father said there
was no necessity !" I needn't do it !" said the girl, pressing
her finger hard upon the centre of her forehead, and. 'looking
keen and old with the mental effort to bring memory, atten-
tion and understanding ~o bear upon the subject. "Yes,
yes, yes, yes,-he said I ~hould weep in peace."
"Yes, your poor old father loves you better than himself.
And he said that sooner than you should marry a iian you
did not love, he would die in jail."
"Did he? My dear good father! Oh, yes! now I think
of it, it was something like that, sure enough! Only my
head is 80 i~ueer! He must not go to jail-oh, never !"
"tie must, unless you marry Major Cabell, and save
him."
"Well, I can marry Major Cabell-it don't matter much-
do you think it does? Spirits up in Heaven know nothing
of what is going on on earth, or they know all about it, and
either is better than our deceptive half'.knowledge. If spirits
know anything, they will know our spirit. Dear. Frank will
know-will know my spirit-nay, he does! I feel sure of
it at this moment. I will marry Major Cabell."
* "But, Zuleime, if your father thinks you dislike Major
Cabell, he will not permit you to marry him."
"But I don't dislike Major Cabell. I don't dislike any
one. I could not now. It seems to me that I feel sorry for
every one. I pity every one. Every one has so much trou-
ble, mamma! Mamma, I feel' sorry for you. I do not know
* how it is, but I do feel very sorry for you. Have you any
trouble? You must have. Well, let God do as He pleases
with you, because He knows best. Besides, it is only for a
little while. And it will all come right. Kiss me, mamma.
I don't think I loved you well enough when you first came
here a stranger. Never mind, I will try to love you more m
the future."
Georgia let the poor girl kiss~ her, and then arose and made
an excuse to go. Zuleime was weakening all her purposes.
And she was obliged to escape as people fly sometimes from
a sermon.
"Please send Kate to me, xnamma," said Zuleime.
And very soon Catherine entered.
"Dear Kate! please come and comb and curl my hair,

tF
2


212             ~run cui~s~ or CLIFTON.
and put on my crimson 'dress, and make me decent and pretty
to go down into the parlor to see Cousin Charles. It don't
matter, you kiiow, Kate. Frank knows all about it. He
thinks so, too. "Because he sees my heart is breaking all the
faster for it, and that I shall the 'sooner be with him. You
see, Kate, it is the heart-strings that hold the soul down to
the body, and when they snap-there! It is off-it is gone
'like a balloon,.-.when the cord is cut it ascends to Heaven!
I feel light like that, sometimes, as if only one' little thread
kept my souV down, and' if it were to snap, I could go."
Catherine looked at the mourner in deep trouble. Then
she began to take down her hair and comb its long sable
tresses out, because she knew that in itself to be a soothing
process. And she stood and combed and brushed it a long
time, and then put it up, and bathed her face and hands.
"Now, my crimson dress," said Zuleime, quietly.
Catherine sat down by her side, and embracing her affec-
'tionately, said-
"Dear Zuleime, you are not quite well enough to go down
into the parlor; and, besides, Major Cabell is not here. He
is gone with some gentlemen upon the mountain to shoot
birds."
Zuleime sat silent for a long time, enveloped by Cathe-
rine's arms, and leaning upon her shoulder. At last Kate
whispered-
"Dear Zuleime, confide in me, and relieve your overbur~-
dened bosom. A secret is so hard to keep alone in a sor-
row1~ul breast. Lay yours on my heart, Zuleime, and it shall
be safer there than my own life. Tell me-what tie is it
that binds you to Frank i!"
"Hush,' oh, hush !"
"Tell me, darling-you know it is not from curiosity I
ask-it is that I wish you to relieve your heart."
"Hush! I pron sed him not to tell."
"Death absolves you from that promise. A painful secret
is very hard to keep alone. I know it, dearest, for I, too,
have a secret. Now will you trust me
"Hush! hush! It was his last request-I must comply
with it !" said the girl, with wild eyes.
Catherine knelt down before her, clasped her arms arQund
her, and ~partly to win' her confidence, and partly to draw

I

her mind from dwelling upon the wo that was crazing her,
said                               1
"Zuleime, look at me. I am going to tell you my secret,
that which it will pain and humble my heart to tell !-that
which it makes my. cheek burn now only to think of! Zu-
leime, I love a map yho never sought, and who would despise
my love! And ~hh whom it is forever and forever impossi-
ble that I should marry. Yet I love him so much~-so much,
that my heart is ready to burst with its powerless longing to
do him some good! Zuleime, I would give him myself-.-.
(nay, never mind my cheek burning-I will speak in spite of
its protest)-or any dearest faculty or possession of mine, if
it only could increase his happiness. Zuleime, there is a
richness and fullness of joy in sacrificing one's self for one
e love that passes all understanding."
in "],~j~now there is," breathed the mourner, looking down
face seriously.
"That is the joy that I long for. And oh, believe me, I
would sacrifice myself or any possession or faculty I have, if
it would only add to his happiness or power. Eyesight is a
precious treasure, is it not ~ If I could give mine to him,
and endow him with perfect vision down to deep old agej
would consent to be dark forever. The power of speech is
a great gift-if by the loss of mine I could endow him with
irresistible eloquence, I would be dumb forever. He, thinks,
Zuleime, that I have talent. And sometimes I think-but
I don't know, either! Anyhow, if by yielding all mine I
could add a mite to the treasures of his intellect, II would be
willing to be a fool for life. In a word-if by abdicating all
my being, I could add to the largeness of his life, I would
glow with joy to do it."
"Do ~not love him so! He will die if you do! I know
it! Frank died !"
"And yet, Zuleime, it is not that I wish to lose my being,
but to add to it. I do not know why it is, butT feel-not
like an individual, independent existence, but like the
complement of that other existence-a half ~fe-not full
and complete of' itself, waiting to be joined to the other
half."
"He will love you. He will find you out," said Zuleime.
And 'her words, and tone, and look thrilled like a prophecy
VOL. I.-18

TH~ CURSE OF CLIFTON.          213


214            TIlE CURSE OF CLIFTON.                                        THE CURSE OF 'CLIFTON.      21~

~to the heart of Catherine, but she shook her head gravely,
and answered--
"Never, Zuleime! It would be a sin even to hope it!
But, Zuleime, I have laid my secret on your heart-now will
you confide in me
"Oh, Kate! I would do it. I wish to do it! But I
promised him!"
"Dear Zuleime, when he required that of you, he did not
think what might, what has happened. You must tell me,
Zuleime. For if you have not some one with whom you can
talk freely, you-I fear for you. You cannot bear your
burden alone! Few human beings can! Tell me, darling '?"
"Oh, Kate! It was the last thing he asked me! I must
comply with his wish !"
"Zuleime! I am about to cast away all reserve! I am
about to tell you the name of him I love so madly. It is
Archer Clifton, your cousin-your sister's betrothed! There!
I have thrown open the very sanctuary of my heart to you.
I have shown its secret sin and shame! Now, will you con..
fide in me!"
"Dear Kate! Dearest Kate! My own secret's without
reserve, but not another~s.~,
Catherine a~ose and took the seat by the mourner's side.
Well would it have been for Zuleime in after life, if she
could now have made a confidant as well as friend of ~the
excellent girl. But at least Catherine's efforts had not been
all in vain. The mind of the mourner was a little more
rational-her part in conversation not quite so district.
Presently Zuleime said-
"It is getting towards evening. Cousin Charles will be
back to supper. Curl my hair, Kate! and put on my crim-
son dress, I must go down and spend the evening with them.
in the parlor! I must, Kate. It is for my dear father's
sitke! You do not know, Kate, else you would also advise
it."
Catherine essayed to prevent her, but finding her quite
determined, yielded the point, and assisted her to dress.
When her toilet was complete, she sat down again upon the
sofa, and put her hand to her head in troubled thought.
Then at last she spoke, saying-
"Kate! I am afraid. It seems to me that-that my head

I

has not been quite right. And-and my speech has not
been quite to the point. Kate, I want you to tell me-can
I trust myself to talk, do you think ~ or had I better not try
this evening ~ They might think me crazy if I should not
talk straight! But I am not! I am not crazy-only~---
Tell me how I am, and what I had better do, dear Kate '?"
"Try to attend and be interested in what is going on,
dearest, and talk when occasion presents itself. And do not
be afraid. Every one will understand it is only nervousness,
darling."
"You encourage me, Catherine," said the poor girl, "and
now just give me your arm down stairs."
Kate complied with her request.
The parlor was empty when they entered, and Zuleime
had an opportunity of settling herself in a large arm-chair,
and composing herself, before any one came in. Mr. Clifton,
Major Cabell, and several other gentlemen returned from the
shooting excursion and entered the parlor, together. Mr.
Clifton looked surprised and pleased to see Zuleime, clothedd
and in her right mind ;" and Major Cabell seemed interested
and curious. Zuleime arose, and supported herself by restr-
ing one hand upon the arm of the chair, while she, received
the greetings of her father's guests. , And thanks to the
shadowing of the black lustrous c~4'ls, and the reflection of
i~he crimson dress, none could see ~he wanness of her face.
Mrs. Clifton and Miss Clifton entered soon after, and in the
general conversation that ensued, poor Zuleime escaped par-
ticular notice. Once Major CabeU contrived; without draw-
ing attention upon himself, to find his way to her side, an&amp;
enter into conversation with~ her. And he was surprised,
perplexed, nonplussed at the gentleness and almost tender-
ness of her manner. Before leaving her he asked-
"When can I have an interview with you, Zuleime 'P'
"Whenever you please, Cousin Charles," she answered,
gently.
At parting, he pressed her hand, and to his surprise, the
pressure was softly returned. And he left her, thinking
"the sex" more of ariddle than he ever thought it before.
The next 4ay, about noon, M~jor Cabell and Zuleinme met
in the saloon, and had an interview of nearly an hour's
length.


THE CURSE OF CLIFTON.           217

~16            THE CURSE OF CLIFTON.

When Zuleime left him and came out; she met her father
in the hail. Taking his hands in hers, she looked up in his
troubled face and said-
"Dear father! you remember many weeks ago, you asked
me to fix the day when I should be married to Cousin
Charles 'P'
"Never mind, never mind, my dear! That is all over
now!. You shall not be troubled, my love !"
"Dear father, I have just told Cousin Charles that I will
give him my hand on Tuesday fortnight," said Zuleime, and
pressing both the old man's hands to her lips, she turned and
left him standing there in speechless astonishment, while she
went up stairs-and throwing herself upon her knees by her
bed, buried her face in the clothes, and breathed-" It won't
be for long, Frank! Oh! Frank, you know it won't be for
long !"

CHAPTER XVIII.
THE YOUNG MOURNER.
Mine after life? What is mine after life?
My day is closed. The gloom of night comes on,
A hopeless darkness settles o'er my fate.-JoANNA BAILLT~.
THERE is no state of mind so calm as that of hopelessness.
And, therefore, there is none so often mistaken for resigna-
tion. Zuleime'~ cheeks were pale and hollow, her eyes
heavy and sunken, and surrounded by a dark, livid circle-.
and she had contracted an unconsci6us habit of pressing her
hand tightly over her heart, while a look of pain corrugated
her brow. Yet, withal, she moved through the house very
quietly-without a sigh or a tear-yea, even with a smile for
whom she chanced to meet-a wan smile of tenderness, fel-
low-feeling. For the grief that had come to her own young
heart, had revealed to her the secret of a general sorrow,
and awakened a deep human sympathy. Yet perhaps it was
a morbid excess of this feeling that made her see, in every
one she met, a fellow-sufferer. Her father misunderstood
her serenity and her sweet smile. And his ,wife led him into
that misunderstanding.
"It is a merciful provision of Heaven, that young people
of her tender age, can feel no lasting grief. At first, over
any misfortune they lament excessively. But it is very
soon forgotten," said Georgia.
"Ah, yes! Chancy Cabell said something like the same
thing, and, indeed, it seems to be true," replied Mr. Clifton.
We are easily persuaded to believe that which we wish to
credit. And so the old gentleman believed in the correctness
of his wife's judgment, and in the reality of his daughter's
peace.
Major Cabell was baffled and perplexed. "Jealousy is as
cruel as the grave," and so, also, is that base passion which
18~


218         THE CURSE OF CLIFTON.                                               TH   US     FCITN                   1

often goes by the holy name of Love. It had been under
the influence of both of these that Charles Cabell had sworn
to punish Zuleime severely for what he called her faithless-
ness. But for the present, at least, he was completely frus-
trated. There was nothing to complain of in her conduct to
him. She was very kind and gentle-not with the gentleness
of meekness and humility, but with that of a compassionate
toleration-such as an angel might feel in looking down
upon. a determined. sinner-seeing his moral insanity, and
foreseeing his consequent wretchedness. Major Cabell had
frequently heard of mourners who could not bear to hear the
names of their beloved, lamented dead, spoken before them.
And he thought to torture her bosom by frequently revert-
ing to " that horrible massacre," and "poor Frank." But
he could not add one pang to those she had already endured.
Her sorrow was too deep to be probed--to be touched by a
superficial hand like his. She could bear to listen and reply
when he talked of her massacred love. For like a stationary
panorama of the past and the present, h lifee and death were
ever before her mind. She could co verse, without new
emotion, of him over whose fate, in its deepest, darkest hor-
~rors, she was ever brooding. If any mourners cannot brook
to hear the name of the lost mentioned in their presence, it
is because they are already blessed with long seasons of for-
getfulness, and shrink from the pain of remembrance. She
had nio such pang of sudden recollection to dread. His me-
mory-her sorrow-was ever present with her.
Catherine watched her with deep and painful interest.
She sought an opportunity, and once more had a serious con-
versation with her. .
" Zuleime, don't marry under present circumstances. If,
as you say, your father is in the power of Major Cabell, it is
bad. But if you marry him to deliver your father, it will be
worse, and will not eventuate in any good. And two wrongs
never make a right, Zuleime. Do no wrong, dearest, but
trust in God for deliverance," said Catherine, earnestly.
"It seems to me that I am doing right. It will please
Cousin Charles, and save father. And as for myself-it
can't matter much, you know," replied the despairing girl.
And to this view of-the case she adhered, with all the tenacity
of a morbid resolution.

I

218

A few days .after this Catherine returned to her brother's
cabin, wondering what new misfortune would-against her
fixed determination-throw her back among the Cliftons.
Major Cabell had written to Richmond for his mother and
sisters to come down and be present at his marriage. And
one day, near the last of the. week, the carriage of Mrs.
Cabell rolled up to the door. Knowing nothing whatsoever
of Zuleime's attachment to the young soldier, and consequent
deep grief at his fate, they were very much shocked to see
her looking so ill, but quietly ascribed it to fatigue and anx-
iety in nursing Carolyn. .And Mrs. Cabell was emphatic in
demonstrations of motherly kindness, which the gentle girl
'acknowledged with grateful'smiles, and by such attentions as
she had the power to bestow. The city ladies had made a
short stage that day, and were but little wearied, so that
after a little slumber, and the refreshment of the bath, and
of tea, thcy felt well enough to spend the evening -in the
parlor.
The'-family were all around the evening, fire, when Mrs.
Cabell and her daughters entered.,
Major Cabell-who was as usual sitting by Zuleime, with
his arm over the back' of her chair in a property-holding sort
of manner-arose, and handing his mother to a seat, received
from her hand a roll of papers.
" It is some new music, my son, for the dear girls. There
are some beautiful songs of Moore's just published. Carolyn,
love, I have thirsted to hear your sweet voice again. Will
you sing ?"
Miss Cliftonis eyes filled- with tears, and she turned away
her head.
Zuleimie stole to her aunt's side, and while seeming to ex-
amine the music, whispered-
-" Dear Aunt Cabell, Carolyn has entirely lost her voice !"
The lady was very much shocked to hear it, and grieved at
her own unfortunate proposition, but durst not trust herself
to reply, lest Carolyn should .hear and understand the sub-.
ject of their conversation.
Major Cabell, who was turning over the music, suddenly
had his gaze fixed by one particular piece. His eyes lighted
up with a peculiar satisfaction, and turning to .Zuleime, he
said-

219


220              ~irnE CURSE OF CLIFTON.
"My own. you can read music at sight. Can you not V'
"Yes," replied the girl.
"And you can sing and play at sight-can you not V'
"Yes, if it is not too difficult."
"Is this difficult 'P' he asked, holding a page out to her.
"No, that is very simple," said Zuleime, looking entirely
at the music-not at the words.
"It is a ballad of Thomas Moore's. I wish you to sing it
for us. Will you V'
"Certainly."
"Come, then," he said, and took her hand, and led her
to the piano. He seated her, and laid the song before her,
saying to himself, "If she can sing that through without emo-
tion-ay, or with emotion-if she can get through it at all-.
she can do, or suffer anything! She is a heroine."
Zuleime was reading over the words, preparatory to sing..
ing them.
And he was watching her intently. But she read through
the song, turning the leaves calmly, her pale cheek never
changing its hue. Then she restored the first page to its
place before her, and began to play the prelude. The ladies
and old Mr. Clifton drew near, and gathered around her.
Then her voice arose, soft,.clear and plaintive, but unfalter-
ing as her cheek remained unchanging-though her father
trembled for her as the words of the song fell on his ear.
That song was "The Broken Heart," by Thomas Moore.
Zuleime sang-
She is far from the land where her young hero sleeps,
And lovers around her are sighing,
But coldly she turns from iheir gaze and weeps,
For her heart in his grave is lying.
She sings the wild songs of her dear native plains,
Every note which he loved awaking:
Ah! little they think, who delight in her strains,
How the heart of the minstrel is breaking.
Her voice faltered-she paused.
"Come! no miserable, maudlin, mawkish self-pity, I be-
seech you !" whispered Major Cabell, stooping to her ear.
Whether Mr. Clifton heard the cruel whisper, or whether
he only saw her slight agitation, is uncertain-but ~ie drew
near and stood by her side. She recovered, and continued-

THE CURSE OF CLIFTON.          221

tie had lived for his love, for his country he died,
They were all that to life-
She paused again-again essayed to sing-her voice qua-
vering, sunk into silence like the rudely-swept strings of the
harpsichord-~-the grayness of death crept over her counte-
nance, and she fell back into the arms of her father, who
angrily exclaimed-
"Charles! you are a brute! ~ demon! to ask her to sing
that song. Zuleirne! Zuleime, my darling! speak to me
lie sat down on the sofa, holding her in his arms. The
ladies drew around with fans, with cold water, with hartshorn.
But she recovered very soon, and sat up-and declined going
up stairs to bed-and thanked them all for their care, gently~
begging them not to take so much trouble on her ac-
count.
"This is all Very strange, macfain," said Mrs. Cabell, aside
to Mrs. Clifton.
"Zuleime is so nervous and sensitive ever since Carolyn's
illness, that the news of that massacre, and the death of her
old playmate and companion, has quite overwhelmed her. I
suppose this music awoke h6r sensibilities," said Georgia,
composedly.
If Mrs. Cabell had any suspicion of the truth, she was too
well bred to express it then and there. And the matter ended
for the moment.
But after this evening, Zuleimo was never the same. Her
fortitude seemed entirely to have given away. Her calmness
was utterly broken up. A 'strange, wild terror and incerti-
tude had come upon her.
The next day, Mrs. Clifton, of Hardbargain, came over to
call on the visitors. Nevertheless, in the course of the call,
Major Cabell found the opportunity he sought, of taking Zu-
leime to task for what he called her miserable weakness.
"You are unfaithful-false at heart-you cherish the
image of this young man secretly, while you pretend to be
true to me!. Pah! Well! why don't you answer me ~ Have
you anything to say ~"
"Cousin Charles, does not the grave sanctify any affec-
tion? Is it a crime to remember a dead friend ?"
"lit is a miserable, ruling weakness! a maudlin, mawkish,
driving, puling piece of unfaithfulness to duty-and leads


'222   ,THE CURSE OF -CLIFTON.

you into the exhibition of such scenes as that of last night !
Such whining, whimpering, contemptible self-pity!/ I protest
you are the most false-hearted and selfish woman I ever met
with in my life. It is your own griefs and regrets and re-
verses, that occupy you all the time. .And now ! instead of
listening to me, and replying-you are falling away into
thought again! Come ! answer me, now ! Was it not self-
pity, that caused you to faint during the singing of that c
propos song-which, by the way, I gave you as an ordeal!
Come ! say ! Wasn't it self-pity ?"
"JVNo, nor was it the song. If I pitied myself, should I
not pity you as much ? It is not such a happy fate, Cousin
Qharles, to marry a grief-stricken girl like me, I know."
"XJVo! If I calculate upon your continued indulgence of
that grief, which I do not ! NJVo! Trust me on the part of
my wife, there must and sh'all be no such exhibitions of feel-
ing as that of last night."
"I do not know why you wvish to~ marry me !" she broke
fdrth, with strange wildness. " You do not love me ! Per-
haps you hate me, and marriage will give you the same power
to work out your hate as it would to act out your love ! Yes !
I do suppose that is really the key to the riddle !"-
" Perhaps it is," he answered, sarcastically.
" One thing I beg of you," she said ; " while we stay here
-in my father's presence-try to use me kindly-to spare
his feelings-he is an old mnan. Reserve your vengeance
until I am your wife, until we get to Richmond, when you
will have full power, and ample time and space to work your
will."
While she spoke so wildly, she pressed and rubbed her
hand spasinodically against her heart. And her pale brow
was corrugated, and her intense black eyes strained and sharp-
ened as by mental and physical pain. She gasped for breath,
and began again.
" I do not know-I am sure-I cannot tell-whether-,
after all, we will ever mnar-2'
What she was about to say was cut short by the entrance
of Mrs. Clifton, of Hardbargain, who came in, with her shawl
and bonnet on, to take leave of Zuleime and Major CabeHl,
and invite them to join the rest of thie family i11 coming to
dine and spend the evening at Hardbargain the next day.

I

Major Cabell accepted the invitation for himself and Zuleime,
and the lady took her departure.
The next day was Saturday. The family set out on their
visit, at an early hour of the day, as is the social custom of
country neighbors. Old Mr. Clifton, his wife, and his eldest
daughter, rode in his carry-all.. Mrs. Cabell and her three
daughters went in that lady's carriage. Zuleime rode on
horseback, attended by Major Cabell.
It was a glorious Indian summer day, when the splendor
of the autumnal sunlight would be too dazzling, but for the
soft, warm mist spread veil-like over it. At another time,
Zuleime, true worshiper of nature, might have drawn deep
draughts of pleasure from the beauty of the scene. But
now the gorgeous magnificence of the forests, in their many
colored foliage-the misty mountain steeps softening the glory
-the fine transparent neutral tint of the heavens leading
the eye and mind up through infinite heights of ethier-the
glowing clouds reposing along the horizon-all were lost upon
her.
An hour's ride by the carriage road brought the party to
'Hardbargain.
Mrs. Clifton received them with her usual quiet cordiality.
There-was something very composing in that calm, kind, self-
possessed woman's manner. There was something very se-
dative also in the air of her home. In her company and in
her house the restless became quiet, the anxions easy, the
desponding cheerful, even the despairing mourners over some
great heart-.wreck, grew languidly aware of how much good
was left them in the comforts of daily domestic life, and the
amenities of social intercourse.
She was strikingly like her son. One was inclined to won..
der how they-so nearly identical in features and complexion
-should differ so widely in many points of character and
sentiment, and had to remember that all in which he did not
resemble her was inherited from the Cliftons. Kate felt the
likeness keenly. And when the lady turned those quiet,
brilliant eyes upon her, her heart thrilled to the glance with
strange pain and pleasure. Anda when once or twice-for
the lady was never very demonstrative in her affection-she
had quietly drawn then maiden to her* bosom-it was such'a
heart-feeding comfort, that Kate felt there would be no pos-

THE CURSE OF CLIFTON.           223


224             THE CURSE OF CLIFTON.
sibility of forgetting Archer Clifton, while thrown into daily
intercourse with his mother. Once when Mrs. Clifton had
looked tenderlfinto her eyes, and drawn and pressed he
closely against her breast, the girl, lost for an instant, ha
thrown her arms around the lady, and buried her face in her
bosom. And for some time after that, terrified at her own
impulse, she had been as shy of the mother, as she could have
been of the son. Kate had kept away from llardbargain for
many weeks, but to-day, when the party from White Cliffs had
arrived, Mrs. Clifton sent for her, with the message that her
friend Zuleime had come. That was no sufficient lure to the
resolute girl, however, who had once for all determined that
nothing but the absolute necessities of others should draw
her again into the dangerous association of the Cliftons. She
returned thanks to the lady, declining the visit. Mrs. Clif-
ton was disappointed in missing the society of her young fa-
vorite for that day. Yet the time passed very pleasantly
notwithstanding. There is scarcely any such thing as a stiff
dinner party in the country. And -such a thing was impos-
sible at Hardbargain. The ladies had all brought their
"parlor work"w-.flue netting, knotting, knitting, or sewing-
and they worked and conversed in a quiet, pleasant way,
while the gentlemen mingled in their conversation, or talked
with each other upon the two reigning subjects of country
discussion-agriculture and po1itics-~-or sauntered out upon
the lawn to ei~joy the fine autumnal weather until dinner.
After which, the ladies jn the cozy parlor lounged a little
more lazily, and grew a great deal more kindly in their inter-
change of thought and sentiment, and the gentlemen enjoyed
a promenade on the piazza, and the stolen luxury of their
cigars.
After an early tea the party took leave. They returned
in the same ~manner in which they had come. Zuleime on
horseback, escorted by Major Cabell; the others in carriages.
- Even the soothing influence of Mrs. Clifton's home and
society had almost failed to quiet the miserable girl. Her
manner, all day long, had been erratic in the extreme-now
depressed into gloom-sunken nearly to the depth of stu-
pidity-now full of "starts and flow~" as the crime-
burthened Macbeth. As she rode home, in perfect silence,
the evil eye of her companion watched her. stealthily. Her

.TIIE CURSE OF CLIFToN~           225
cheek was pale and hollow, and her eye sunken and heavy.
Yet sometimes -her eyes would lighten as with sudden terror,
1~ke those of a startled hare, and her cheek would flush and
fade. The road was broad, yet shadowy, from the meeting
of the branches of the huge trees overhead. And so soon
as the sun went down it became too dusky to permit him to
see the flickering and sinking of the fire in her eye and cheek,
but he watched her closely; nevertheless. Suddenly he saw
her sway to and fro in the saddle, like a reed blown by the
wind. Then, ere he could spying to her aid, the reins dropped
from her hands, and she fell from the horse, her foot ~ateh-.
mg in the stirrup. The well-trained palfrey stopped, and
stood without so much as lifting a hoof. With a deep curse,
Major Cabell threw himself from his steed, and raised her,
disengaging her foot from the stirrup. He sat down on a
bank, with her on his knees, and took off her hat, and began
to feel her head, neck and arms, for ir~juries. It seemed im-
possible to tell whether, or how she, was hurt. The carriages
were some yards behind, and concealed by a turn of the road.
He dipped his hand in a run, at the foot of the bank, and
sprinkled her face; and before the carriages arrived, she had
opened her eyes, and sat up. She said that she was net hurt-.
that it was only a fainting spell, such as she had had at the
piano. But her voice was very weak, and., her frame trem~-
bling, and her general manner frightened. She placed her
hand against Major Cabell's chest, partly to assist herseli~ in
rising, partly to push him away, and stood alone upon her
feet, until her father's Ca'rriage drew up. Then she said she
was tired, and wished to get in.
Old Mr. CliftQn sent a glance of impotent rage at Major
Cabell, as he lifted his child in-placing her in the vacant
fourth seat-.-the      ee being oc
other thr        eupied by his wife, eldest
daughter, and himself.
Zuleime sat next to her sister, an~ opposite Georgia; and
the last mentioned lady studied her vis-a-vis, with as much
interest, and with far more curiosity and comprehension, than
Major Cabell had exercised.
The girl sat perfectly still, and quite lost to all around
her. But Geoi~gia saw that it was the fearful stillness of
self-restrained frenzy.
They reached home at last. Georgia was handed out first;
VOL. I.-.19


226            ~'HR CURSE OF CLIFTON.

she waited for Zuleline, who followed. She wished to draw.
the girl's arm within her own. But Zuleime, turning on her
a dilated, strained, fiery gaze, fled past her into the hous~.
And then the lady saw, with a shudder, that it was indeed
the fires of incipient madness that kindled the lambent flame
in the girl's eyes!
When they were all assembled in the parlor, around the
evening fire, with books, and mu~ic, and light needle-work-
"Where is Zuleime V' asked ber father.
"She has retired to her room, very much fatigued," re-
plied his wife, and the subject dropped.
The next morning, when the family gathered around the
breakfast-table, the youngest daughterwas still missing.
"Where is Zuleime? Why doesn't Zuleime come? Caro-
lyn, have you seen your sister this morning? how is she '?"
asked old Mr. Clifton.
Carolyn replied that she had not seen her since the pre-
ceding evening.~
"Send some one, then, to her chamber, to see how she is,
and whether she will join us at breakfast, or have anything
sent up to her room. Or-stay! Carolyn, don't send-go
yourself, 'my love, to your sister, it will be only kind."
Carolyn left the table, and went up stairs, and after an
absence of fifteen or twenty minutes, returned, and announced,
with a pale cheek, that 2~uleime's chamber had not been oc-
cupied duriug~the night-that she herself was no where to be
found in the house-and that no one of the servants had seen
her since the evening before!
A dreadful suspicion instantly seized upon all who reinem-
bered her wild and moody looks and manners of the preceding
few days; and they simultaneously arose from the table, and
with looks of alarm, dispersed in various directions, in quest
of the missing girl.
The hc~use, kitchen, out-buildings, negro quarters, garden,
vineyard, orchard, the plantation and the woods were succes-
sively and vainly searched.
Messengers were dispatched to Hardbargain 'and to the
neighboring plantations, with inquiries that proved fruitless.
-~ Old Mr. Clifton ran up and down the house and grounds
like one distracted.
At last, near night, traces were discovered of the lost one.

226

IlTpon the edge of the stream, where the banks were soft and
deep, small foot-prints were seen-.and hidf-way down the
bank her little slipper was found, with its toe deep in the
mud, and the ~heel sticking up, as if lost there in the down-
ward run of its owner-and from the branch of a sapling
near, a shred of her crimson dress fluttered, as if caught and~
torn off in the same swift descent.
Old Mr. Clifton walked down there, to see the spot; but
he was carried back.
And before the next sun arose, Mrs. Georgia Clifton had
her heart's first desire.
She was a widow.

j

TIlE CURSE OF CLIFTON.

227


228        THE CURSE OF CLIFTON.                                            T~ECI      FCITN                   2

CHAPTERr XIX.
CONFE55iON.
I was so young-i loved him so-I had
No mother-God forgot me-and I fell!
BROWNING-BLOT ON T-HE 'ScUTcHEoN.

A RETROsPECTr of several hwurs is necessary here. You
will remember that during the drive home from Hardbargain,
Mrs. Georgia Clifton had watched Zuleime with much in-
terest and curiosity, and with mere perspicuity. When the
unfortunate girl had sprung from the carriage, and fled up
the steps into the house, Mrs. Clifton had followed her. In-
stead of going up into her chamber, she had passed directly
through the ha;ll, and gone out at the back-door-Georgia
having kept near her. There was the kitchen garden at the
back of the house, and' then the vineyard, and then the
orchard-through all these she successively passed, with the
same wild, hurried gait, and entered the forest beyond, and
descended into the deep glen, through which the mountain-
stream roared. It was very difficult to follow the reckless
steps of the fugitive down this rough declivity, and while
cautiously descending, with the aid of projecting fragments
of rock and smaller branches of trees and bushes, Georgia
lost sight of the girl. When she reached the bottom of the
gorge, through which the torrent raged and raved, Zuleime
was no where to be seen,.
The night was very, dark, and though a few large, brilliant
stars were to be seen directly over head, yet low from the
horizon, heavy, black masses of clouds were slowly rolling
up. And the wind moaned and died away at intervals--
prophetic of the winter's storm. The single, large stars
overhead were reflected in the stream-not clearly and
calmly, but plunging and leaping with the wild water. The
banks each side lay shropided in gloom and mystery, rocks

I

-228

229

and trees indistinctly blended together in dark and sombre
hues. The everlasting mountains stood around, vast, vague,
and awful. The seven white peaks gleamed up in the back
ground, like the ghostly genii of the scene. .A shiver of
superstitious fear shook the frame of Georgia, and she had'
turned to retrace her steps home, when assound between a
inoan and a suffocating sob arrested her purpose. She crept
towards the spot whence -the sound proceeded, and there,
half hidden in. the deep gloom of overhanging willows, she
dimly discerned the figure of the unhappy girl, endingg over
the stream, and gazing intently upon the water, where the
reflection of the stars leaped and plunged with the waves.
As if communing with herself,, she -murmured-" There is
peace there ! There is peaceghere!" Then her form bent
lower, her gaze grew more earnest and intense, as though
body, soul and spirit were irresistibly fascinated, drawn
down by the glaniour of the water ! And-" Thei'e is peace,
deep peace. there," she muttered ! How stormy must- have
been the soul that saw deep peace in the. raging torrent !
Her eyes shone in the dusk with a bright, phosphoric light,
and still pouring their splendor upon the dark, wild water,
she murmured---" Peace ! deep peace." Suddenly up flew
her arms, and she sprang forward.
The ready hand of Georgia caught hershoulder and pulled
her back, exclaiming-
S" Mad girl! What are you about to do ?"
Zuleime sprang around with her eyes all wide and ablaze,
like one suddenly waking up from a terrible dream, and not
yet quite brought to consciousness. Georgia drew her away
from the dangerous proximity of the torrent. Zuleime threw
her hands to her head with sudden recollection and intensity
of consciousness, and sunk down at the feet of the lady,
clasping her knees, and 2exclaiming-
" Oh ! you don't know what you've done ! Why did you
pluck me back ! There was -peace there ! The only peace
left for mel!"
'"You are frantic, miserable girl! What is the meaning
of this madness ?" asked 'Georgia, in a stern, curt tone.
Convulsive sobs, shaiking as with a tempest the form of the
girl, alone answered her.
" What will your father-what will your intended hus-.
19*


F
I

THE CURSE OF CLIFTON.

band think of this ? Say ! Speak ! What do you suppose
Major Cabel-"
"Oh! do not speak of him !" gasped the girl.
" Will you tell me what you mean by this conduct 'P'
sneered Georgia.
" Mamma-" commenced Zuleime-but her voice broke
down. A
" Zuleime ! come ! get up and come home !"
" Oh, no, no, no! JVot home!- .Never home again!"
" Once more, what am I to think of this frantic be-

haviour.
"Mamma !"
" Don't call me mamma, if you please ! It may not be
pleasant or politic, to acknowige that tender relationship.
*But explain yourself, lest I bring you to those who will de-
mand the explanation with less forbearance !"
" Mercy ! 'mercy ! I will tell you anything ! everything !
Only do not kill my father with the story !"
"Speak, then !"
ILadyan ?
But some feeling stronger than fear, gripped her heart
and stopped her speech.
" Zuleime ! How long will you try my patience ?" .
" Madam__"
Another hesitation.
"What, then ?"
" I have been-a wife! I am-a widow ! I am fated
to be-"
" Well," asked Georgia, in a deep-drawn breath between
her teeth, " you are fated to be-"
".4 mother I" breathed the girl, in a dying voice, cover-
ing her face with both hands, and sinking lower on the
ground.'
There was a long, deep pause, filled up with the roar of
the torrent and the moan of the rising wind. Suddenly
up sprang Zuleime, with fire in her eyes, and made a dash
towards thie water. The 'swift arm of Gieorgia caught and
dragged her back. No word was spoken yet. The impulse
of frenzy passed off, and Zuleime sunk into her old'
posture
1CC

280

" Get up," at last said Georgia, half-shaking, half-putting
the girl upon her feet. " Get up and come with me."
And she drew her to a fragment of rock, at a safer dis-
tance, pushed her down on the seat, and dropped herself by
heir side.
""Now, tell me of this," she commanded, in a hard, curt
tone. " You were married ?"
." Yes, yes !
-" Who was your husband ?"
" Ah, you know ! You must know ! He who died in
yonder field of blood, under the tomahawk of the Shosho-
nowa-I am very wretched !"
" Stay !-is this true-about the marriage, I mean ?"
"True as God's Word !"~
" Certainly the marriage was not legal without your
father's cotisent, and would have been annulled by him. But
now he will perjjmit his consent to be supposed. Let's see!
the widow of an army officer entitled to his half-pay, per-
haps ; I do not know.-perhaps to a pension,. too, asr he died
in the field of battle. Zuleime, upon~ the whole, I think that
j  you were rash to attempt suicide. -Your position and pros-
pects are not so bad. If'Major Cabell is anxious' to possess
you, now that he supposes you to be a maudlin, love-sick
'girl, grieving yourself to deaths over the grave of your lover,
he will be quite as willing to marry you a year hence, when
he knows you to be the widow of Captain Fairfax-for that,
I understand, was his rank when he fell. Come, girl, live!
Acknowledge your marriage, like a truthful woman ! Bring
your child into God's world like-a Christian woman! And
after a sufficient time has elapsed, marry Major Cabell, like
a sensible woman ! For I do assure you, that the gallant
,Major is sufficiently enamored of your young beauty to wait
that length of time, if compelled to do so."
" Ah, yes ! I think he is enamored of me as the Shosho-
nowa was of poor Frank's hair !" bitterly said the girl.
" This marriage ust be announced at once ! Who per-
formed the ceremony ?"
"Old Mr. Saunders, the Baptist preacher.'
" What! He who was found dead in~his bed.
"Yes, yes, it was he !"
"Pity for your sake that he is dead! But, you doubtless

THE CURSE OF CLIFTON.

231I


'282

~1IR ounsn o~' GtIF~Q~.

had some confidant, some witness-.-.Kate Kavanagh, perhaps,
or some one else ~ Say! speak! There was some witness
to your marriage, who can be produced to prove it !"
"No! There was none! hf was so sudden !"
"None !-no proof of your marriage! Yet stop-..~stay '!-.
there is a chance yet, I believe; I do not know. You were
married with a license, of course!"
"Yes, yes!"
"The county clerk who issued it will probably remember
the occurrence. That will be something in your favor,
though, ~alas! only imperfect, circumstantial evidence; for
the mere taking out of a license is no conclusive proof of a
marriage."
"Ah, great or small, as proof it is of no avail. The
license was procured btornk, for Carolyn and Archer, because
he had forgotten her full name, and it was afterwards filled
out with our' names."
"No matter. You were married with it! 'And now I
reinemb~r a saving thing! The clergyman who married you
of course a~*ed his certificate of marriage to the license; and
.gave it to you. Where is it! All depends now upon that.
Where is it !"
"I do pot know! I never saw it! If the parson gave
~one, probably Frank took charge of it !"
Again a pause fell between them, and the noises of the
wind and waters arose in gloomy concert. At last Georgia
spoke-.7-.
"Miserable girl! And so you have no proof whatever of
this asserted marriage !"
"None! none! But oh, what does that matter, after all!
God knows that we loved, and were married, as lie knows
that we will soon be reunited!"
"Wretched' girl! who will credit the story !"
"No one in the world, perhaps! But, ah! what odds!
Could the proving of my marriage bring him back to life, or
give my father happiness !~'
"Most wretched girl! You seem quite lost to the shame
yo~i ~have brought upon yourself! the dishon&amp;r you have
brought upon your family!"
"Ah, go on! You cannot say anything to nie so bitter as
my heart is saying all the time!"

I

TH~ CUJ~5E OF OLIFTON.
"Your father! Your old, gray-hsired~ father! to bring
him to shame in his old age! Can he survive the knowledge
of your fall !"
"I know he cannot.! I know it! 'Oh, oh!"
"Carolyn, too! To destroy all her prospects in life'!
Who will ever wed the sister of a supposed "
"Ah, spare me that! Why did 'you pluck me back! the
river would have covered all !"
"Because I did not know or d~earn your folly! Zuleime,
your father, wh~ could tear your death, could never survive
your disgrace !"
"Oh, God, I feel it !"
"Zuleime-~-yQu must die!"
A pause, when but for the ~roar of the torVent, and the
howl of the wind; their very hearts might have been heard
slowly beatings
"Zuleime, you must not live to bring shame upon us!
You must die !"
"AhI Why did you hinder me when: it would not hive
been a~ crime !"
"What mean you !"           /
"I was mad then! I knew not what I did! God would
not have Pharged me with my death! I am sane now !-~--sane,
though most wretched!"
"Zuleime, you must die !-not in reality, but in appear~
ance. It must be believed that 'yOu are d~ad-dead by your
own act, as you intended, And' I will provide for your
escape and your future support.
"Alas! lady, what is it you advise me to do I Deceive
my pooi~ father~, so cruelly, and never, iiever undeceive him
again! And never, never se~ l~im again !"
"Lost girl! If I had not saved you an hour ago, would
you have been alive to ask the question !"
"Ali, no! But, oh, my father! Who will comfort
him!"
"Who would have comforted him had you effected your
purpose this hour! What would con~fbrt him for your degra-
dation! Foolish girl, that will console him for your supposed
death, which never could console him for your fall--time.
Besides, if you are supposed to be dead, it will not only save
us all from shame, but your father will be your heir, and


234             TIlE CURSE OF CLIFTON.
can appropriate that thirty thousand dollars to the payment
of his debts. Zuleime, it seems to me you owe us all this
sacrifice."
"1-I am very weak and miserable. 1.-I scarcely know
right from wrong! Do what you please with me, only con-
sole my father!"
"And at any rate, girl, this plan is far better than the self~
destruction you meditated awhile ago. By this plan you will
be able to save your child."
"Ah! to what end ~ To be as miserable as its mother ?"~,
"Zuleime! time presses. To-night you must journey to
,and take the stage thence to Richmond. I have
a negro here on whose secrecy I can depend; he shall take
two horses from the stable and convey you to IL in
time to meet the Richmond stage. I will give you a letter
that you must deliver to its address as soon as you reach the
city. Get up now and coiiie with me," said Georgia, taking
her hand to assist her in rising.
The unhappy girl mechanically yielded herself to the
guidance of "the dark ladie," and they ascended the glen. ;~~j
Retracing their steps through forest, field, orchard, vine- ;
yard and. garden, they reached the house, and entered by the
back door. 'The hall was deserted; the family being at that
hour gathered around their parlor fire, and the servants being
at supper.
"'Zuleime, go quietly up into your chamber and get ready,
while I go down and find tha man I spoke of," said Georgia.
Zuleime mechanically obeyed      . The next hour,
while her father and sister and friends were enjoying their
happy evening reunion in the warm, bright parlor, the
wretched Zuleime, through the dark night, and the howling
wind, commenced her journey. Of what followed the dis-
covery of her loss, you are already possessed.
END OF VOL. I.
7-~
~


  
             
         
       
   
