
    ----CITATION----
        Myers, P. Hamilton (1812-1878). The Miser's Heir, or, The Young Millionaire .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC7312
    ----FULL TEXT----
         
      
         
            The miser's heir, or, The young millionaire 
            
                  MSER'S HEIR; OR, THE TH'I TOUN           MLLIONAIRE. BY P. HAMLTON MYERS, AUTHOR OF "BELL BRANDON," "ELLEN WELLES; OR, THE SIEGE OF FORT STANWIX," "THE EMGRANT SQUIRE," ETC. "The scene of the present story is laid in the city of New York, ere that metropolis had ncircled within her broad arms the extent of territory which now marks her limits. For. unes were made for men in those days while they were sleeping, in the rapid increase of he value of real estate; and the author makes one of those vast accumulations the ground- fork of a plot of no common order. The time runs through some fifteen or sixteen years; mbracing the boyhood and early manhood of the hero. It has vividly portrayed the aneful effects of avarice-the deep-dyed villany, the bartering of soul necessary to gratify hat passion by dishonest means-the one engrossing idea leading the miser, ignus-fatuus ke, step by step, till at last he sees that for which he has toiled and sinned, at the very loment of fancied possession, fade like a vision from his grasp. He has depicted unre- Farded toil struggling for an honest subsistence; but while he has drawn a contrast be- ween worthy poverty, and the unblessed wealth of him who accumulates it for itself lone; he has not drawn from the purlieus of over-grown cities those degrading pictures so requently found in modern literature, which shock the sensibilities, while they may not il to interest us. He has shown, what should be the prime object of all story-writers, Those works reach directly the million, the complete triumph of virtue over duplicity and rime-the utter fallacy of lasting success as the result of dishonest practices. The hero a creation-in which the author has shown himself no mere painter, but an artist. In "our reading of fiction, or in every-day life, we do not remember to have Peen his like efore; the meek, enduring youth; the forbearing, long-suffering, generous man-in short, he practical Christian. The style of the author is graceful and highly polished, with no larked attemptsrat fine writing, but equal throughout; and the incidents stirring and in- ,resting-that of the death of the hero intensely thrilling."-Phila. Dollar Newspaper. , N    1   Clabc Hlpl a:ST T  T. B. PETERSON, No. 102 CHESTNUT STREET,   Entered according to Act of Congress, in the year 1854, by A. H. SIMMONS & CO. In the Clerk's Offce of the District Court of the United States, in and for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania. PHLADELPHA: STEREOTYED BY GEORGE CHARLES. PRINTED BY KING & BAIRD.   CONTENTS. CHAPTER   I. PAGE THE BROTHERS, .......................................  .  9 CHAPTER   II. THE GUARDIAN, ..............       .......    .  14 CHAPTER III. CAPTAIN JAY AND HS FAMLY, ...............   .....  . 18 CHAPTER IV. SIDNEY'S EDUCATION, ...............................   . 28 CHAPTER V. THE .DISCOVERY, ...................  .  .............. - .. -40 CHAPTER   VI. THE ARREST AND RELEASE, ......     .......................... 47 CHAPTER VII. SIDNEY REMOVED TO THE COUNTRY, .........................  54 CHAPTER VIII. POVERTY AND ITS TROUBLES, .............................. 59 CHAPTER   IX. THE COUSINS AND THEIR TRIALS; ..........................  67 CHAPTER  X. H IALTH AND W EALTa,   ................... 80 (7)   8          CONTENTS. CIAPTER XI. PAG - THE MONEY LENDER AND THE VOYAGE, ................92 CEAPTER XII. THE RETURN AND THE WILL,.. .. .. .........  100 CHAPTER XIII. THE MURDER OF SIDNEY, .114........ ... e . a e e  114  CHAPTER XIV. .......................... 127 THE PURSUIT, ..127...... ...... CHAPTE  XV. THE MURDER OF BRAIL, ... ...... ...     134 CHAPTER XVI. THE NEW CLAIMANT, ..................     145 CHAPTER XVII.  4 CONCLUSION,  .... ....... .....  * * *  ..     i         ,       v   THE MSER'S HEIR; OR, THB TOUNG MLLTONALIUR. CHAPTER I. /        THE BROTHERS. IN one of those once suburban villages of New York, which that ambitious metropolis has of late years travelled up to and around, and has incorporated wihin its own ever- expanding limits, lived the brothers Ralph and Hugh Wer- ter, men whose great strife through life had been, not one of affection, but of avarice. Each thirsting to be rich, as an abstract desire, had still the pleasure of the game in- creased by emulation to outdo the other, and although rqo direct animosity usually existed between them, they not only did not assist each other over the flowerless road they had chosen, but at times even cast obstacles in each other's way. For a while their race was a tolerably even one, but in later years the younger brother immeasurably out- stripped his rival, Ralph, who was too timid to take any large ventures, and contented himself by hugging the estate he had already amassed as closely as an extravagant wife and three costly daughters would permit. For some years "he held his own," as he frequently (iJ)   10        THE MSER'S HEIR. boasted, while chucklingly predicting the ruinous crash which seemed to him perpetually threatening the towering fortunes of Hugh; but the heavy expenses which imperious habit, and a more imperious partner, imposed upon him, did not long allow him to make even this moderate vaunt. Having ceased to progress, he found himself gradually re- trograding along the golden highway which he had so gaily trod, seemingly under some spell which no effort could break. An occasional convulsive attempt to retrieve his lost ground only seemed to quicken his backward pace, and although the hopes inspired by the habit of success never deserted him, and he continually anticipated better things, yet he could not fail to perceive that every passing year left him poorer than it found him. While time thus robbed him of its gold, it also soured his temper, which had never been over sweet, and weakened principles which had never been over strong. His face, not naturally unpleasing, had grown rigid End wrinkled, and his light-gray eye, with the capacity of unmeasured gentle- ness of expression, had become hard and stone-like in its aspect, emitting glances which chilled where they fell, and seemed at times almost Medusan in their power to blast. Hugh was a man of very different mettle. Bold, reso- lute and energetic, he was quick to perceive and prompt to take advantage of all offered opportunities for improving hit fortunes. The one: idea of gain Was constantly before his mind-it was his first thought on awaking, it dwelt with him through tre day, it mingled with his visions by night. Like his brother, he was a speculator in real es- tate, and both being successful, they had, as has been said, together climbed the 'dangerous steep of Fortune for a while, but where Ralph had paused alarmed and looked timidly back, Hugh had planted his foot more firmly and aspired to loftier heights. Success followed him, preceded   THE BROTHERS.  -      " him, surrounded him. He seemed to possess the touch of Midas. He could not buy a farm so unpromising, a marsh so deep, a hill so high, but that its value trebled on his hands. "It is sheer luck," said Ralph. "It is foresight," said his wife; " and you might do the same, if you could but see to the end of your nose." "Did not I buy a farm right alongside of his Clover Hill purchase?" "Yes-the wrong side." "Did not I buy a meadow where he got a marsh, side by side, and lose thousands while he made tens of thou- sands?" "Yes, but he bought where the city was coming, and you did not," replied his wife, sharply. "How could I tell which way the city was heading?" said Ralph. "It puts out one foot in one direction, and seems to be going that way, and then it puts out another foot in quite a different course and goes that way. When this new street was opened leading towards my river farm, and one block of stores and half a dozen straggling houses were put up on it, everybody said-' Here comes the city -this is the way she'll go,' and I went and bought a hun- dred acres more at an enormous price; and there's the half- opened street now, the stores going to decay and the houses unoccupied, and the city has set out on her travels in an- other direction." "Yes-yes-I know-"  "Precious little," said Ralph, waxing angry, as he thought of his failures; "you know enough to praise those who win, and laugh at those who don't-and that's about as well as the mass of mankind do."      . A taunting reply rose to Mrs. Werter's lips, which would probably have been the beginning of a stormy tirade   12        TIIE MSER'S HEIR. such as even her harsh husband was glad to flee from, but the current of her thoughts seemed suddenly to change. "I am sure I am far from wishing him any ill," she said-" but such uninterrupted prosperity as his is very unusual-and his time may come." "He has some large ventures at sea now," added Ralph, eagerly, " and quite uninsured," "He will lose nothing in thatjway-but I do know that the poor man's health is failing, and that he takes no man- ner of care of it, and seems to be quite unconscious that anything is the matter with him-" "He is so wrapped up in his schemes." "An interesting heir he'll leave to all his riches-that shy, sickly boy. I suppose he'll have it all." "Of course, there's nobody else," answered Ralph, gruffly. "Perhaps he might remember us in his will-" ' Never-and more than that he'll never make one. I know Hugh well enough for that-but it will all go to Sid- ney just the same-and an unjust law it is, too, when his only brother is living." And such an affectionate one, too," added Mrs. Wer- ter, sarcastically. "NQ matter about the affection.- The law presumes af- fection in all such cases.'.' "The law presumes a very extraordinary thing, then," replied Mrs. Werter. "I don't see that I am called upon to feel much love for a selfish and grasping man, merely because he happens to have had the same parents as myself-I don't dislike Hugh, ind I certainly remember= the time when I used to have a kind of brotherly feeling towards him." "Well-- that is something, certainly," replied his wife, laughing, "I did not think your memory was so good."   THE BROTHERS.         13 But Ralph's regard for his brother did not extend to' warning him of the danger to his health, which a few months subsequent to the conversation just narrated more than justified the predictions of Mrs. Werter. A sudden failure of his strength, which had long been chiefly sus- tained by his indomitable energy and ambition, gave the first serious warning of a malady which thenceforth pro- gressed with rapid and resistless strides. Before his sur- prise had deepened into alarm, while the syren Hope yet sang of a speedy convalescence, the mysterious springs of life suddenly failed, and the millionaire's possessions were reduced to a shroud. '2,   CHAPTER II. THE GUARDIAN. "HE left no will-and as I am the nearest relation of Sidney, I am the most proper person to be appointed his guardian, you know," said Ralph to his wife, a few days subsequent to his brother's decease. "Of course you are," replied Mrs. Werter, with great interest, " but perhaps he will prefer some one else." "The law does not regard the preferences of babies; he has no right to choose for himself.' "Ah! then indeed-" "And I think I can make it appear, especially to Esquire Hampton, that I am the most suitable person. Hampton lives in one of my houses, you know, and wants to buy it. I'll let him have it at his offer, if necessary- not that I would use any undue influence, of course- but it is quite right, you know, that I should be the guar- dian." "Oh, never mind about explanations. It is to be done, that's enough-the shortest way is the best, only see that you are quiuk about it. Somebody else might be stirring." Ralph was quick about it. There was no one to oppose him. Sidney's mother had long bean dead, and the poor boy, only in his tenth year, had no proper appreciation either of his great loss or of the vast change which it had produced in his position in life. He scarcely knew what a guardian was, and certainly had no conception as to the mode of making one, and when, .a few days after his / -(14)   THE GUARDIAN.         15 father's decease, he was informed that his uncle stood in that legal relation to him, he received the intelligence with but little interest or curiosity. Boy-like, he supposed it to be a matter of course, and he dreamed nothing of the far- reaching influences which it was to have on his future destiny. Sidney was not what is usually called a bright child. , He was reserved and diffident, with a confiding and affectionate disposition, and a temper of great mildness and placidity. Suspecting no evil in others, and no merit in himself, he was an easy subject for the yoke of any tyrant into whose hands he might fall, and he was speedily sup- plied with a master. His guardian took him at once into his own family, where his, first lessons were on the embar- rassed situation in Which his father had left his property, and the great and unrewarded trouble which the son was destined to give his relations. Sidney was sorry, and promised to do all that he could to lighten the charge which his uncle had assumed. He knew very little about his estate, for the avaricious father, fearful of implanting spendthrift propensities in the breast of his heir, had kept him as much as possible in ignorance of the vast wealth which was to descend to him. This cir- cumstance unfortunately served Ralph as a pretext for perpetuating the ignorance of the child; for what, he argued, could be more proper in him than to pursue towards the son the same plan which had been adopted by his father. Did he not stand " in loco parmntis" to the boy, as the appointing officer had informed him, with great gravity, and explained to him with great condescension? It would go hard indeed with the guardian if he did not even improve upon the lessons of his predecessor, especi- ally as he had the aid of a willing and hearty coadjutor in the person of Hester-and it was not long before poor Sidney, with a rent-roll of tens of thousands, had learned   16        THE MSER'S HEIR. to believe himself but a few removes from a pauper, and under the greatest obligations to his uncle and aunt for their gratuitous care of him. It was an easy task to rivet these chains upon the mind of the unsuspecting child, and although advancing years must, in spite of every precau- tion, bring enlightment to his ward, Ralph doubted not that he should in the mean time gain a complete influence and ascendency over him. In what particular way this great power was to be wielded, he had perhaps not definitely determined, but his own interests and those of his family were of course para- mount in his views, while his poor nephew, poor in the midst of his vast wealth, was regarded as a mere cypher, towards whom scarcely the slightest consideration was due. There was one material element in the calculations of the guardian which has not been named, but which, assum- ing vast proportions at first in his mind, still grew by con- templation until it became to him an absorbing theme of thought. Sidney might die a minor, leaving his uncle the legal heir to his estates. Until the age of twenty-one he would have no-power to. make a will, and how great the probability that before that time arrived he might fall a victim to some of the many dangers and diseases incident to childhood and youth. Ralph certainly did not bestow any extraordinary care upon his ward's health. "He must take his chance," he said, when, six months: after the lad had become a member of his family, he was seized with an epidemic then prevalent in the neighbor- hood, " we cannot be calling a physician for every trifling ailing. Hester will nurse him." Hester did. She gave him whatever he wanted. What could be kinder? Some people believed that a patient in a raging fever should not be allowed to drink very cold- water in unlimited quantities, especially if the sufferer were   THE GUARDIAN.         17 a child of weak judgment, and delirious at that. Mrs. Werter had no such scruples, and Sidney was not allowed to suffer from thirst, or from too much company. He was allowed to remain alone with his thoughts, and fever-phan- toms, through long days and nights, interrupted at rare intervals by the hasty visits of his nurse, to whose sharp inquiries after his wants, his feeble reply of "Nothing, Aunty," was ever satisfactory and ever the same, But hydropathy triumphed, and the child recovered, with enough of constitution left to carry him subsequently through other diseases similarly treated. It would be painful without profit to paint the details of suffering of an orphan boy, without sister or brother, surrounded by and confiding in those whose interests were all antagonistic to his own-aye, to his very existence. Sidney was a sufferer, but ere he had reached his thir- teenth year, there were signs of a coming release which no guardianship could avert. It might be near, it might be remote, but those strange eyes, now dull and hazy, and now shining with a brilliant, meteor-like light, and the transparent skin, tinted at times with the flush of doom, seemed to proclaim it certain. 2   CHAPTER III. CAPTAIN JAY AND HS FAMLY. THE game of life may be compared to that of chess, in which every correct move strengthens the player's position, and facilitates his chances for another advance, while one misstep leads to a succession of errors which prove in the end wholly irretrievable. If the career of Hugh Werter had exemplified one part of this proposition, as far at least as pecuniary matters were concerned, there were not want- ing among his neighbors instances to confirm the other. Among these was an individual related by marriage to the millionaire, whose fortunes had been peculiarly adverse. Captain Jay, whose wife was a sister of Mrs. Werter, was a sea-faring man, who, as master of different merchant- vessels, had beat about the world for a quarter of a cen- tury, and had been a dozen times on the eve of making a fortune, which had as regularly eluded his grasp. His ship usually came in at the wrong time, or with the wrong cargo, or he was caught out in a war, his vessel scuttled, and himself taken prisoner; or when everything else went right, his owners failed on the very eve of pay-day; for all these vicissitudes had in turn befallen him, yet had failed to discourage his sanguine, trustful,.cheerful spirit. But illness had compelled him to relinquish his maritime pursuits, and at the age of fifty he had retired from the sea without even a competence secured for the evening of his boisterous life. Yet he had wealth beyond what mines and merchandize can give, in a family. circle of unusual at- (18)   CAPTAIN JAY AND HS FAMLY.      19 tractions, whose welcome home to the central object of their affections was none the less warm, nay was the warmer because he came empty-handed and sad of heart. Mrs. Jay was an intelligent and amiable lady, of genuine piety,.who had imparted to her children, both by nature and tuition, her own excellencies of character, and what was of less moment, had transmitted to them also the ex- treme beauty and grace of person which had in younger years won for herself a general admiration. She was con- siderably the junior of her husband, yet she was past her fortieth year at the time of his withdrawal from his ocean life, which was about two *ears subsequent to the death of her sister, and eighteen months prior to the decease of that sister's husband. Mrs. Werter in her life-time had made many efforts to induce her gr sping lord to assist her brother-in-law, in his adverse fortunes, but always without success, and when Hugh became a widower, he ceased all intercourse with or recognition of a family whom he feared would become importunate claimants of his aid. But he entirely misunderstood the independent spirit of Mrs. Jay, whose sense of personal dignity would have been less wounded by sweeping the street-crossings than by becom- ing a suppliant to a rich relation. She became a stranger to her brother-in-law, which she regretted only because it debarred her from all intercourse with the motherless boy, for whom she entertained a real affection, and whose wel- fare she had deeply at heart. Her own son was about two years older than Sidney, and the cousins, although essen- tially different in character and person, had become warmly attached to each other before their intercourse had been interdicted. The death of Mr. Werter would doubt- less have resulted, in a renewal of Sidney's intimacy with the family of his maternal aunt, had not Ralph been very careful to perpetuate his estrangement from his indigent   20        THE MSER'S HEIR. relations. The orphan boy soon forgot the friends to whom since his mother's death he had not been allowed to speak, and who, if ever alluded to in his presence, were always spoken of in terms of disparagement. Addison Jay was a singularly gifted lad, whose eloquence of face and figure, rare mental endowments, and frank, kind nature might have been considered as the harbingers of a distinguished future, had his lot not been cast so deep within that chill vale of poverty where Genius so often mourns its blighted hopes. But at the age now spoken of he fortnnately knew little of life's disappointments, and whatever clouds or sunshine might be in reserve for him, he was as yet a light-hearted boy, enjoying the golden hours as they passed, and ever gladdening with his merry voice and radiant face the heart of the fondest of -mothers. Not less beloved, not less lovely, was Lizzy Jay, the counterpart of her brother in face and disposition, and almost his inseparable companion, whose heart was a well-spring of all gentle and tender emotions. Such was the family with which Capt. Jay found himself surrounded on retiring from his ocean life, a family almost of strangers to the hardy voyager, who for many years had spent only one or two months annually at home. But his memory had been kept alive in the hearts of the children by the affectionate teachings of his wife, who had never suffered his toils and hardships to fade from her thoughts, and who through many long years had looked continually forward to the time when he should be able to enjoy in retirement the competence he would so dearly have earned. What pictures of future happiness had she not drawn?-how long and often had she felt the pain of hope deferred?-and now, when her husband had grown prematurely old with toil, he had come back from his "voyage of life" to a home of poverty and almost desti- tution. !.    .  ..i   CAPTAIN JAY AND HS FAMLY.      21 Fortunately he did not find a repining or desponding wife, prepared to meet him with a doleful picture of their destitute state, and with vain regrets for the fortunes they had missed. They conformed at once to their altered po- sition, and did not make matters worse by seeking to keep up appearances of a better condition than remained to them. Capt. Jay did not hesitate to accept a clerkship in the shipping house of his former employers, at a salary so, small, that nothing but the greatest economy and industry on the part of his wife could have made it suffice for their wants. Yet they were not unhappy, excepting in their so- licitude for the beloved children who were growing up around them, and for whose future welfare there seemed to be no provision. Mrs. Jay had denied herself many things for the purpose of assisting in giving Addison a liberal education, and al- though, since her husband's changed fortunes, they were obliged to relinquish this cherished design, the ambitious boy had already advanced so far in his studies, that they encouraged him to continue them il private, with a view to some contingency which might yet enable him to attain to the profession of his earnest choice-the law. Of this coveted result, Addison himself never despaired, nor did it even seem to his sanguine nature a task difficult of achieve- ment. At the age of sixteen he was fully competent to take charge of a country district school, and it would be difficult to portray the delight with which he received at that age, from the legal inspectors of teachers, a certificate of qualification. "Now, mamma," said the delighted boy, "only let me find a school that I can keep six months in every year, and I am a made man. I can study law, at the same time sup- port myself, and little Lizzie too, if necessary. So we are off your hands." 2*   722       THE MSER'S HEIR. "Not quite yet, my son," said his father, laughing. "The school is to be found yet, you know." "O, I shall find one, father. There are plenty of them in want of teachers, and I don't look so very young,' you know. I think I could pass for seventeen," and Addison unconsciously drew his fingers across'his upper lip. A smile from his parents, and a loud laugh from Lizzie, greeted this gesture. "There's nothing there, Addy. You needn't think it," she said. "Your face is just as smooth as mine, every bit." "I wish it was as handsome," thought the pleased bro- ther, as he gazed affectionately at the sweet, smiling face that was turned towards him. "But never mind the 'beard," he said. "I think I can contrive to get along without that, for I shall always look as though I was just freshy shaved, you know. But I am afraid there is one thing necessary," he continued, witih a more serious air, glancing at his clothes, and leaving it to the garments them- selves to finish the sentence, which they did by a very elo- quent, though silent, appeal to the eyes of all present. There was-no mistaking the fact. Addison's habiliments were nearly threadbare, besides being of a forgotten fashion, and Mrs. Jay could scarcely restrain her tears as she re- fected upon their inability to render her son the scanty assistance of a new suit. "If it was to be an evening school," continued the lad, thoughtfully, "I might manage with these; but no trustees would employ such a scarecrow by daylight." "It would not cost more than fifteen dollars," said Mrs. Jay, hesitatingly, to her husband. "But we owe twice that sum already," replied the Cap- tain, with a sigh; " would it be honest to incur this debt, with no certainty of being able to repay it?" "Addison would himself pay it out-of his first earnings--"   CAPTAIN JAY AND HS FAMLY.      23 "Of course I would," added the boy; " but I might fail to get a school, after all, and then we should be in a bad plight. I don't want papa to run any such risk as that- for I know it makes him low-spirited to be in debt. I must manage some other way." "O, mamma!" exclainmed Lizzie, with brimming eyes, "what a-pity that we should be so very, very poor, when cousin Sidney is as rich as a prince, and never spends a dollar either. If we had only a hundredth part as much as he has, we could have nice clothes, and everything we wanted, and Addison need not teach a school at all." "Hush, my child," replied Mrs. -Jay. "He who gave wealth to your cousin assigned poverty to us. Can you not say ' His will be done?' " "But I do think, mamma, that Sidney is very unkind to us," said the son. "Poverty is not a pestilence, that he need be afraid to come near us; and I am sure he must know us better than to think we would ask him for any- thing. Only think of his utterly disowning us, merely be- cause he is rich and we are poor." "It is a sad spectacle indeed, to see so young a boy with so much worldliness and selfishness; but we know not to what influences he may be subject, or how far his nature may be tainted with hereditary avarice, or warped by pater- nal teachings. Let us be charitable." "Mamma never blames anybody," said Lizzie, with a flushed face; "but I do blame Sidney, and I will blame him. He is a little, mean, contemptible boy, never to come near Addison, who used to love him like a brother, and would have given him every single plaything he owned, just for the asking-and I remember very well when Addy cried the whole day in the garden, because it was said we 'vere never to visit each other a ny more. And then, a long time afterwards, when Uncle Hugh died, Addison and I   24        THE MSER'S HEIR. laughed and clapped our hands on the sly, and said 'Now Siddy would come to see us again'-but he never, never did, the bad boy," and Lizzie, who had talked very fast and excitedly, burst into tears as she closed, and put her apron to her eyes. There were more eyes moist besides hers, and even Ad- dison, who began to pride himself on his manliness, could not refrain from emotion at the recollections she awakened. "I remember it all very well," he said, " ad how, after Uncle Hugh's death, we kept hoping on, week fter week, that he would come, or would send for us,  one day I met old Jake, who lived with Mr. Ralph Werter, and asked him about Siddy, and he said that Siddy had forgotten all about us, and that his guardian was a cross old man, who would set the dogs on us if we came there. Then I told Lizzy, and we had another crying spell about it and gave it up, and for years afterwards I never thought of Sidney unassociated with his cross old uncle and the dogs, who I thought were perpetually going about with him wherever he went." "Well, I hope you have both freely forgiven him, my children."  "I hope so," replied Lizzy, and then immediately added, in a tone which implied anything but the forgiving spirit she had professed, "I suppose he goes to a grand school, and is preparing himself for college." "He certainly ought to do so, having such abundant means," replied Mrs. Jay. "'I don't think it is so," said Addison; "for they say he is closer than ever his father was, and that he will not spend a dollar, if ever he can help it." "'They say' is a very uncertain authority, my child. TYop should never repeat anything evil of another on mere rumor, which is far oftener false than true."               .  .   CAPTAIN JAY AND IIS FAMLY.      25 "Yes, but his own uncle and guardian says this. Papa sits there-very mute, but he knows all about it, for Mr. Shaw was out at -- ville last winter, on some business with Mr. Werter, who told him these very words." "Did Mr. Shaw see Siddy, papa," asked Lizzie, excit- edly. "He saw a sickly-looking, shabbily-dressed boy, who was sent out of the room as soon as he entered," replied the father, "and when he inquired if that was Hugh Wer- ter's son, Mr. Ralph Werter replied yes, and added what Addison has already told you. He also said, probably in explanation of the boy's slovenly appearance, that he was unwilling to have any of his money laid out for clothes, and that they gratified his whims because he was in feeble health." "It is a very strange story," replied Mrs. Jay, "but it may be true; I do not see what interest his guardian could have in misrepresenting, as he gains nothing by his ward's economy." "I do not think it very strange," said Captain Jay. "It is true the parsimony of parents is most usually followed by prodigality on the part of their children; but it is often otherwise, and when the taint of avarice does descend to the next generation, it is sure to be with increased orce. The fact that Sidney has entirely forgotten yo Ellen, and his cousins, shows that he can have but little generosity in his nature." Mrs. Jay sighed without reply, and the conversation was changed to its original theme, which, after much discussion, resulted in a resolution to sacrifice an old cloth cloak of the mother's, to furnish materials for the son's suit. She could easily spare it, she said, for the winter was far off, and would quite likely be a moderate one, in which case her shawls would suffice very well; and if the season should   26        THE MSER'S HEIR. prove severe, she could easily stay at home during the worst of it. Indeed, when she saw that Addison was very reluctant to accede to the proposition, her asseverations became so earnest that she could as well spare it as not, that Lizzie began to wonder why she should ever have pur- chased such a superfluous garment. The young man being urged on all hands, consented to accept the gift on the express condition that he should be allowed to replace it in the fall, if he should be able to do so, of which he felt very sanguine. The cloak was of very fine material, and nearly unin- jured, and was of such ample dimensions that there was no difficulty in getting the two most important parts of a gen- tleman's wardrobe out of it, one of which of course was a coat, and the other was-not. The expense was now re- duced to that of trimming and making, which in the hands of an itinerant tailor, who transported his goose and press- board from house to house, and irked by the day, was a comparatively trifling tax.  Addison, indeed, came out of his hands quite trans- formed, and so very trim and handsome that Lizzie declared it was a shame he should be a school teacher, and that he oughtt 4 go directly and marry some princess, which she had no doubt he could do, if he should have the good for- tune to, meet one. If this event had o curred it could scarcely have given her brother more delight than he re- ceived a few weeks subsequently, from encountering a very different person, that is to say, a grim 91d trustee of a school district, in search of an occupant for the pedagogue s chair. The boy's credentials were unexceptionable, his manners were prepossessing, and although there was some demur to his youth, he was finally accepted, with a warning that he would have some boys to manage who were much older   CAPTAIN JAY AND HS FAMLY.      27 than himself, and, which was not less alarming, some full- grown girls, including one or two country belles. But as the school was not to open until the second fall month, and it was now only August, there was ample time to prepare for these formidable perils. The district in which the boy-tutor was thus early called to labor was a few miles north of his native city, though quite within its present bounds-a distance from which he could easily walk home on the half holiday at the close of each week, and spend the Sunday, as he gladly promised to do, with his parents and sister. Resolved to acquit him- self creditably in his new avocation, he devoted much of his immediate leisure to perfecting himself more fully in his studies, and when at length the dreaded yet desired day arrived, which devolved upon him his new duties, he en- tered upon them with the ease and confidence of an expe- rienced teacher. @   CTAPTER IV. SIDNEY'S EDUCATION. "THE boy must have some education, Ralph, if it is only for appearance-sake. He knows nothing but what he gets from poring over a set of musty old books of his father's. Mercy knows what there is in them, I don't." "But Sukey has'taught him a good deal-" "Out of the New Testament, which she can't read, but which he reads to her, and she expounds by the kitchen fireside; but that is not exactly the kind of learning which will be looked for in the son of a millionaire." "It is the kind most likely to be serviceable to him, if half what the priests preach and you pretend to believe is true. Education is of but little value to a boy who is in a hopeless consumption." "Who says he is consumptive?" "Doctor Lee says there is no doubt of it; that only the greatest care can avert his fate even for a few years, and that it will be almost a miracle if he lives to the age of twenty-one." "Ah!" exclaimed Mrs. Werter, for it need scarcely be said that person and her husband were the colloquists, and that Sidney was the subject of their remarks. "Ah! twenty-one!" There was an emphasis to those words which implied a great deal-and the pause which followed was an expressive one. It was interrupted by the wife. "It would make a very great difference with us, if such (28)   should prove to be the design of Providence. Would it not?" "Why do you ask?" returned her husband, gruffly. "You know it would. It would make the difference of a block of stores in the heart of the city-twenty-five first- class dwelling houses-and, better than all, a farm of five hundred acres, which in a few years will be all city lots. Difference, indeed! Instead of being under a million dol- lar bond to keep all this safe for another, and to account for all the income of .it to another, it would all be mine!" Ralph spoke crossly, as if he had been wronged in being already kept out of it so long, and he was doubtless vexed also by the cant of his wife, whose real feelings he well knew to be quite in accordance with his own. "Mr. Temple would be glad enough to get Eloise then, wouldn't he?-and even Ruth and Ann, backward as they are, would soon become belles-" "Yes," replied Ralph, sneeringly, "poor Ruth's red hair would have a beautiful auburn tinge then, and Ann's squint would become a slight and rather interesting obli- quity of vision." "Poor children!" exclaimed Mrs. Werter. "A pretty bill of expenses they have been to me, with all their French and flummery-and they are as far from being 'settled' now as ever. But for some people's ex- travagant notions, I might perhaps have been as rich a man as Hugh was-" "Why you don't mean to say I have spent--" "Not a million-nor a hundred thousand-nor a quarter of that-but when a man's family expenses nearly equal his income, he don't dare to risk money in speculation. Yes, I might have been as rich as Hugh." "And have been what he is now, perhaps. What differ- 8   80       THE MSER S HEIR. ence does it make, as long as you are like to have it all in another way?" Hush, here he comes." A thin, small boy, with handsome though very pale fea- tures, and a downcast look, entered the room, and ap- proached timidly towards Ralph, as if expecting some com- munication from him. He had, in fact, made bold to pe- tition, on several recent occasions, that he might be sent to school, and, though frequently repulsed, he had mani- fested a mild pertinacity in following up his design which he had never exhibited on any other subject, and he had now come into his guardian's presence to receive an answer, which he had reason to expect that morning. Werter's principal objection to the measure was the danger that a free communication with other boys'might lead to Sidney's enlightenment on the subject of his property; but this he knew could not be long kept from the lad without some- thing like positive durance, and as the symptoms of his ward's disease grew stronger, he cared less for the pre- servation of the secret. His opposition to Sidney's request had, therefore, diminished. Public opinion would doubtless require that the boy should have at least a show of education, and if some con- venient country school could be found, still farther from the city than his own residence, where there would be no dan- ger of meeting pupils from town, he was half inclined to permit his nephew to attend it. It was Sidney's request which had given rise to the dis- cussion just related, and which, as has been seen, was di- verted to another subject, and one more interesting to the speakers, without any decision of the point in question. "Well, Sid, is it the school again you come about?" asked Ralph, roughly. ^*"'   SIDNEY S EDUCATION.       31 "Yes, sir," replied the lad, in a very faint voice, looking at the chair which his uncle sat in, but not at its occupant. "Don't you think it rather a foolish way to spend your money? You can read and write pretty well now, can't you?" "I can read pretty well, and write a little, but there are a great many things I don't know that other boys do, and Sukey thinks I ought to learn." "O, Sukey thinks so, does she? But the expense? I am not going to pay for it, you know. It will have to come out of your own little property, and you will have so much the less when you become a man." "I know that, sir," replied the boy, quickly; "but I think I would like to go, if there is enough. Sukey says that poorer boys than I go to school and learn everything." "Ha! Perhaps Sukey thinks you can afford it very well?" inquired Ralph, anxious to know whether his ne- phew's sable friend, who was an old slave of Werter's, had given him any hints about his possessions." "Sukey said that I owned houses, but I told her she must be mistaken, because you would know it if I did; and she said of course you would, and perhaps she was mis- taken. Other people have told me such things sometimes, too, but I knew they did not know as much about it as you did, because you were papa's own brother." Ralph winced a little, but replied- "Of course not; and then they know nothing about your father's large debts, and the mortgages on his property." Sidney sighed, and said "Of course." "As to the school, I think you may go, if there is any good district school near us-that isj north of us-not to- wards the city, for the boys in that direction are very bad, especially the city boys, whom I have often warned you to have nothing to do with. I will inquire about the schools." %.   32        THE MSER'S HEIR. "I have inquired all about them long ago," answered the boy, quickly, being afraid of another long and indefinite postponement of the subject. There are two within about a mile of us, one north and the other south. I could easily go to either. The walk is nothing-not as far as I used to go for the cows.'" "Go to the north one," replied Ralph, quickly, as if tired of the subject, "and let me hear no more about it." Ungraciously as this consent was given, it still gave im- measurable joy to Sidney, who was not long in availing himself of hispew privilege. The few cheap books neces- sary for his purpose were procured for him without demur, and within a few days\after the present conversation he sat out, unattended and unencouraged, to seek the scene of his new hopes and aspirations. The courage with which he had started gradually failed as he drew near the school house, and when he arrived there, it was in a state of trepidation which for a long time prevented him from entering the door. There was no one to introduce him to the dreaded "master," or to make known his wants-all was to be done by himself, a bashful, backward boy, with his heart in his mouth, and his tongue he knew not where, so utterly unable did he seem to arti- culate a word. But he made a bold push, and found him- self just inside the school-door, with a sea of faces all around him, and a hundred eyes burning into him, and a hive-like hum of many blended voices ringing in his ears. For a few moments, as he stood clinging to the door-handle, with neither courage to advance or retreat, everything was indistinct and confused to his perceptions, but he soon be- came conscious of a bright, mild face peering upon him out of the mist, and of a voice of perfect kindness addressing him. "This is a new scholar, I believe," said Addison Jay,   SIDNEY'S EDUCATION.       33 advancing to meet the frightened boy. "I am happy to see you, my lad-please to walk this way." This unexpected kindness completed the tumult of Sid- ney's feelings, which now found relief in a hysteric sob and a gush of tears, so violent, that the considerate tutor was fain to draw him aside to a retired seat, and leave him un- questioned until he should recover his equanimity. But so long did the little stranger's emotion continue, and so frightened did he appear whenever the teacher drew near him, that Addison thought best to leave him undis- turbed until the noon recess, at-which time they were left quite alone by the retiring scholars, for Sidney did not offer to withdraw with the others. Little did Addison dream, as he sat down by the trem- bling, timid boy, who did not dare to look him in the face, that this was his rich cousin, so rich, that his income for a single month would have been positive wealth to the poor teacher-that this was the cousin whom he had supposed so haughty and selfish in his affluence, that he had dis- carded his once loved relations because they were poor. Commiseration for the little invalid was depicted in every line of the speaker's face-but he spoke in a cheer- ful tone, hoping to infuse some courage in the heart of his almost voiceless pupil. "So you are going to become one of my scholars, are you, young man?" "Yes, sir-if you please." "What do you study?" "I don't know, sir-H have never been to school before." "Is it possible-how old are you?" "Thirteen, sir." "Ti*teen? Are you sure? You are very small for that age." e   * TH" MSEK S HEIR. Addison could not believe that there were but three years' difference in age between himself and the backward child he was addressing. "Yes, sir, I am sure. I have been ill, but I am better now." "Where do your parents live?" "I have no parents, sir; I live with my uncle and aunt." "Ah! yes " replied Addison, in a tone of sympathy, but in a'tone, too, that said he began to understand why the boy's education had been neglected. 'A painful conviction flashed upon the tutor's mind that the poor object before him had been otherwise neglected, if he had not even been the victim of positive cruelty-but he did not feel at liberty to question him on these point "What is your name?" he said. "Sidney Werter." "What do you say?" exclaimed Addison, in a quick, loud voice, springing to his feet and surveying the child from head to foot, with a look of the most intense astonish- ment. But his voice and manner frightened his companion be- yond the power of repeating his reply, and for a moment Sidney was ready to faint with agitation. "Do not be alarmed, my boy-you said your name was-- "S-Sidney, sir-Sidney Werter." "And was your father's name Hugh?-and is your un- cle named Ralph?-and is he also your guardian?" Addison spoke rapidly, anxious to make certain of the extraordinary fact which was thus disclosed to him. "Yes, sir." A tumult of mingled emotions crowded into the young man's mind, as he stobd for a minute in silencoegazing upon his unfortunate cousin. Pity for Sidney,^self-.re- O               *   SIDNEY S EDUCATION.       35 proach for his own injustice towards him, indignation at the wrongs which he felt certain he must have suffered from his uncle, were prominent among these feelings-but exceeding and surpassing them all, the strong tide of-liis boyish affection for his cousin came rolling back upon his heart, obliterating for the time all trace of other emotions. "Sidney," he said, with scarcely repressed emotion, "do you remember when you were a little boy--before your mother died-you had two little playmates, who were your cousins-a little boy and a girl?" "No-sir!" said the child, slowly, after a moment's thought, and shaking his head in confirmation of the dreary negative. Unspeakable was Addison's pain at this reply. "Oh! Siddy!" he exclaimed, with starting tears, and seizing the wondering child's pale, thin hand, "is it possi- ble you have forgotten? Do you tot remember a beautiful garden, where you used to play with them, the flowers you used to gather together, the butterflies you chased? Do you not remember how you went strawherrying in summer, and nutting in the fall?--and how you played blind-man's buff on winter evenings in the large old kitchen?" "I remember these things-a little," replied Sidney, with a perplexed look, as if endeavoring to recall the past -"I know I had some playmates, but I have forgotten who--for nobody has ever spoken to me about them. Dd you know them?" "Ah, Siddy, Siddy, then you have quite forgotten your Aunt Ellen, and your cousins, Addie and Lizzie." "Aunt Ellen-cousin Addie-cousin Lizzie--no-I be- gin to remember. Oh, how long, how very long, since I have heard those names. Did not cousin Lizzie have large blue SP and a great many curls, and was not Addy a tall, s boy, very lively and full of fun?" -".? ,    86        THE MSER'S HEIR, "Yes, you describe them well," said Addison, with breathless interest. "And your Aunt Ellen?" "Oh, I remember her, a very beautiful woman, who looked so much like the picture of mamma. Yes, I re- member now, and I know now how it is that I have not thought of them in a great while. I used to love them, but Uncle Ralph told me something bad about them, very long ago, and would not let me go to see them; and after- ward I think he said they had moved away." "Is it possible that he could have so deceived you?" i "Why, sir, is it not true? Do you know them?" In reply to this question, Addison briefly and/eloquently described to Sidney the character of his unknown relations, saying but little of himself, but portraying his mother and  sister with the lavish language of affection. Hurriedly and excitedly he told him of his cousins' great grief when their intercourse with him was first interrupted-of their daily hopes and disappointments, as they waited and looked for a re-union with their loved playmate, and of the cruel mes- sage mentioned by Lizzie, which had finally terminated their hopes. He told him, too, how these his friends had learned to believe that he was an unkind, hard-hearted boy, who had willingly forsaken and renounced them. Long before he had done speaking, the large tears were coursing down Sidney's cheeks; but he seemed unconscious of them, or of anything excepting the strange and affecting story he was hearing. The orphan boy, while possessing an eminently affec- tionate disposition, had literally never known a friend since his father's death, excepting the old slave who has been named, and to whom he was strongly attached, and now these tidings of relations and former friends, whose hearts yearned towards him, and who were only estran^ from him because they thought that he did not care for them, ,  s                .*   SIDNEY'S EDUCATION.       37 came upon him with overwhelming force, filling his heart with new and strange sensations of bliss. "And you know them, and will tell them all the truth," he said, as soon as he was able to speak-" and you will take me with you to see them, if-if-" (a sudden cloud came over his brightening features,) "if-Uncle Ralph will allow me to go." "Sidney," said Addison, still holding his cousin's hand, "Iook at me. I am but a little more than three years older than you, although I am so much larger. When you were eight years of age, I was but eleven. Oh, Siddy, Siddy, can you not guess?" "That you are my cousin?" shouted Sidney, wild with excitement, as he felt the arms of Addison, encircling him, and drawing him closer and closer to his side. "O! how very glad I am!" The sobs of the boy, and the deep emotion of the young man, for some time prevented further conversation. When they became more calm, there was a world of ques- tions to be asked and answered on either side, and the whole interval of recess elapsed before their reminiscences were recounted or their explanations made. After school hours the teacher accompanied Sidney part of the way home, while they continued their earnest and eager conversation, and planned schemes for the future, full of bright and dazzling colors. How the tediousness of teaching, and the weariness of study, were to be relieved by their mutual companionship, and how blissful were all their lei re hours to be rendered. In ome way, too, but how they knew not yet, they hoped that Sidney might be permitted to accompany his cousin in some of his weekly visits home, and renew the long suspended intimacy of childhood with little Lizzie, little now no longer, and with his aunt, who still cherished,   for her sister's sake, a deep regard for the motherless boy. Addison did not learn, what would have greatly asto- nished him, that Sidney was quite ignorant of his immense wealth, and he marvelled that, while half the valuable farms which lay on either side of their long road belonged absolutely to his little companion, not a word was said nor an allusion made by him to the subject. He felt scarcely at liberty himself to refer to this topic while his cousin was silent upon it, and even if he had been so inclined, there was another and more pressing subject which demanded at- tention before parting. There was every reason to believe that, if Sidney's guar- dian-should learn who was his nephew's teacher, he would not only at once withdraw the boy from school, but that he would probably take other means to prevent their meet- ing again. Although solicitous beyond expression to avoid this dreaded result, Addison's frank and honest nature re- volted at the idea of using any deceit even for a good end, and it became a matter of extreme doubt whether the im- portant secret could be kept. Their chief hope lay in Ralph's indifference to his ward's interests, and in the thought that he might neglect to make any inquiries about the school. If he asks the teacher's name?" said Sidney, anxiously, as they discussed this nice question of ethics. "Tell him it is Mr. Jay," replied Addison-"I do not think he will suspect."  - "But, oh! Addison, if he should suspect, and should in- quire if it is my cousin-" "Tell him the truth," replied the young man, boldly, "and trust to the great Source of Truth-for the result." Addison's conscientiousness was not even quieted by these resolves. He feared that he ought to instruct the   CLjLI D i1 i O LUUWAl1lUl. 0*  7 boy to go at once to his uncle and tell him the whole story, although unquestioned, and to be directed by him as his legal guardian and adviser; but feeling certain that Ralph had already wronged and deceived his ward, and believing that he would not hesitate to do so again, when interest or caprice dictated such a course, he thought that the plan he had advised might be all that duty required. The fear of distressing his cousin, the hopes of benefit- ing him and making him happy, the many joyous hours of future intercourse with him to which he looked forward, combined to influence him in the resolution he had taken, but could not carry him further. Sidney's religious teachings had by no means been ne- glected, for old Sukey was a devout Christian, but his mo- ral perceptions were less cultivated than his cousin's, and he would have gone a little further, although not to the telling of an untruth, to preserve his newly acquired hap- piness-but he yielded readily to Addison's views, and a deep sense of respect was added to his affection for his cousin. The young companions parted about a third of a mile from the home of Sidney, who proceeded the remain- der of the way alone, in great trepidation lest his prized secret should be wrung from him. How eventful had been the experience of the few past hours-how vast the teach- ings of his first day at school.   CHAPTER V. THE DISCOVERY. To Sidney's great terror, on his arrival home, he found his usually taciturn uncle disposed to be talkative, and in- quisitive in regard to his day's adventures. The boy had tried every way to avoid meeting him, but when the dreaded "tea-time" came, there was no longer any chance to evade the interview. "How did Sidney like his school?" asked Ralph of his wife, after a pause in conversation, which had been running upon crops and the weather-for Mr. Werter's principal farm manager lived with him, and sat at his board. "I don't know," replied Hester, while Sidney's little heart beat so hard that he really feared they would hear it. "I don't know-you can ask him. I have had no chance to do so, for he seems to keep out of the way, and I think quite likely he has had a whipping." "What do you say, Sid? You do not seem quite as delighted about it as you were a few days ago. How did you like it?" "Very well, sir," said a faint and almost inaudible voice. "What kind of teacher did you have?" "Very good, sir," replied the same half whisper, while the poor boy's teeth fairly chattered with affright. "Humph! 'Very well and very good'-but you don't seem much delighted, though. Is your teacher a man or a woman?" "A man-" (40)   THE DISCOVERY.         41 "A young man?" "Yes." "What is his name?" "Oh, Uncle Ralph," said Sidney, desperately, seeking a diversion of the attack, "when I was coming home from school I saw the line fence very badly broken between the north farm and Mr. Rice's pasture. There was nearly a whole length down." "What do you say? Where was it? In what part?" asked Ralph, with much interest. "By the wheat field." "And why did you not tell me this before?" Now Sidney had really reserved this piece of information, which was strictly true, for the very use to which he had applied it, and he knew not how to answer this question. "' Why did you not tell me sooner, I say?" repeated the guardian angrily. "You have been home two hours." "Oh, because, sir-because-because-" "Because you are a stupid, bad boy. Mr. Wells, this must be seen to before dark, or the lot will be full of cat- tle before morning." "I will go and fix it at once," replied the farmer, hur- rying to finish his meal, and while various conjectures be- gan to be made as to how the accident, which was quite a serious one in a farmer's estimation, had happened, and whether through their fault or their neighbor's, poor Sid- ney began to breathe freer and deeper, little heeding the chiding which he had received, so that he had warded off the dreaded, the terrible inquiry which had been begun. But Miss Eloise had unfortunately heard the interesting intelligence that Sidney's teacher was a young man, and her inquisitiveness was now fully awakened. "Is the schoolmaster handsome, Sidney?" she asked, after her father and Mr. Wells had left the table. 4   42        THE- MSER'S HEIR. "Oh, yes," he replied quickly, thrown quite off his guard by his delight at being able to answer one question freely, and by the still greater delight of praising Addison. " O, yes, very handsome--I never saw a handsomer man." "Ah! a fine judge of beauty you are, I dare say," said Eloise, who began to imagine the teacher accompanying his pupil home, staying to tea, and making himself gene- rally interesting. Handsome young men were quite the kind of quarry she was in the habit of pursuing. "Is he tall or short?" she continued. "( Quite tall-a good deal taller than I." "You, indeed! You pigmy! Why do you compare him to yourself? You are a little boy." ( Oh, I know that," answered Sidney, coloring. ( "Well, so this Mr. What's-his-name is both tall and handsome. I suppose he is not very straight or graceful." "Yes, he is both," answered Sidney, still quite uncon- scious of the very dangerous curiosity he was awakening. "But he dresses shabbily, and like a country bumpkin?" "No, he does not-he dresses like a gentleman-and he is perfectly clean and neat. His hands are as white as yours." ("Eloise," said Ruth, laughing, "I think you will have to go and call on Mary Dale Coon. She lives near the north school house." "* Perhaps I shall," replied the elder sister. "If I don't others will. Mary Dale will have more calls than she ever did before, you may depend on that." Although Sidney, as has been said, was not a lad of quick perception, he could not now fail to see that his cousin's remarks had not been mere badinage, as he had supposed, but that she took a Heal interest in the subject of her inquiries, and, in new alarm, he was about rising from the table, when he was retained by further questions.   THE DISCOVERY.         43 "Does this wonderful man 'board around' like other schoolmasters?" asked Eloise, in allusion to a well-known country custom of quartering the teacher successively upon all the families in his district, a week or two at a time. "I don't know." "But wait a minute. I have forgotten what you said his name was." Alas! the petard was again beneath his feet, and he had no longer power to prevent its explosion. Tell a falsehood he would not, and to hesitate would create suspicion. With as careless an air as, in his agitation, he could as- sume, he replied-    / "Mr. Jay." "Jay?-Jay?"   said Eloise--"it seems to me I have heard that name before. Mother, do you know any Jays?" "Yes, I know some Jays and some Jackdaws," replied Mrs. Werter, tartly. "Your father used to know a Mr. Jay in New York-but he was a sailor, and the family were quite low, and wretchedly poor. I don't know any others, and I don't want to." "There is a very respectable family of that name in New York," said Eloise, in Those vocabulary the word re- spectable meant rich. "I'll go and ask father imme- diately." "Oh, don't!" exclaimed Sidney, affrightedly. It was a rash and unfortunate speech, and could not fail to awaken suspicions. "Why, what on earth is the matter with the child?" exclaimed Mrs. Werter, now beginning, for the first time to manifest an interest in the discussion. "Why he is as white as a sheet-come here, sir."  Sidney obeyed. "What it the reason you don't want Eloise to ask about Mr. Jay?" she said, in a sharp, harsh voice, before which   4- t       THE MSER S HEIR. the poor child had quailed for years, and which he dreaded more than all other dreadful things. He did not answer. "What is the reason, I say? Do you know anything about this man more than you have told us?" There was no response. "Sidney!" shrieked Mrs. Werter, in a note of awful warning: but still the boy remained speechless, and at the next instant the red hand of the virago rose and fell with arrowy swiftness, and with the sound as of an exploded pistol ringing in his ear, the stunned child staggered back- ward and leaned against the wall, which was less Wvhite than his countenance. He did not cry, he did not speak, but there was a look of despair and submission in his pale face, which his mistress was accustomed to and understood. "Tell me now!" she said. "Do you know anything more of this man than you have told?" "Yes." "What is it?" "He is my cousin." Despair has no deeper tone than that in which the orphan boy uttered this sentence-a sentence which he well knew would at once dispel the whole brilliant vision which had so suddenly illumined his lonely heart. "Your cousin! What, the son of old Jay, the sailor?" "His fath'er was a captain." "A captain, indeed! His father was a beggar, and so is he. Ruth, go and send your father here directly. He must know about this. You may go, if you want to." The last sentence was addressed to Sidney, who quickly availed himself of the permission to leave the room and withdraw to his own little dormitory, where he was per- mitted to remain undisturbed until the next morning. Undisturbed! Alas! what could add to the torture he al-   ready suffered? Ite felt a presentiment of his coming doom, he knew that he should be separated from Addison, perhaps never again to see him-never to know those other dear friends whom he had hoped so soon to meet. It was evening, and the bright stars were shining through the clear, autumnal sky, affording the only light to Sidney's room, and perhaps for that reason serving to draw his thoughts upward, as he stood sobbing by the window, with his raised hands upon the sash. His young spirit had often wished to be released from earth, for that brighter home of which he fully believed he was to be an inheritor, through the great Mediator, but this night his heavenward longings came upon him with increased intensity. His faith was simple and sincere; and, although really approx- imating nearer to innocence and virtue than mortals often do, even at that tender age, yet his sense of demerit was deep and abiding. There was nothing mythical or mystical in Sidney's vi1ws of Heaven; all was a solid and brilliant reality, obscured by no clouds of doubt, dimmed by no shadows of distrust. He gazed into the cerulean depths, and along the glittering galaxies of stars, and believed that he saw the exterior of that golden city, where saints and angels walked-where his dear mother dwelt, and looked with pitying eyes upon him, whenever sickness'or suffering was his lot. With such a faith, and with such feelings, he knelt down and prayed long and earnestly, gazing through blinding tears towards the material heavens, but seeing through the sublimer vision of faith the radiant glories of the eternal world. Peace came in answer to prayer, and, after a night of rest, Sidney arose prepared for and meekly expectant of the tidings which he was not long in receiving, that he was to see his cousin no more. His uncle professed to believe, 4*   "       THE MSERS HEIR. perhaps did believe, that the child had long known of Addison's position as a teacher, and had practised deceit and cunning to obtain permission to attend his school, for the purpose of renewing his acquaintance with him, which had been once positively interdicted. Ralph at least knew that there was enough of the appearance of a plot between the boys to counteract his authority, to justify him in seeming greatly offended, and in the use of any harsh measures he might choose to adopt to prevent their future meeting.  He took pains to renew in Sidney's mind the prejudices which he had implanted there years before against the Jay family, whom he represented as in every way unworthy of regard; but, although his broken-spirited ward heard him in silence, his faith in Addison remained unshaken, and his love for him unabated. Nor would he believe any ill of the parents or sister of his new friend, although he could imagine no reason why his uncle should misrepresent them; nor could he conceive of any person being so wicked as wilfully to malign and slander a fellow being.   CHAPTER VI. THE ARREST AND RELEASE. ADDISON JAY sought his school-room at an early hour on the morning after parting with his young cousin, and awaited his arrival with contending feelings of fear and hope. Long and often he looked down the road which led to Mr. Werter's residence, and watched with painful anxiety the successive appearance of his pupils in the distance, thinking each new comer might be Sidney, and, when unde- ceived by a nearer approach, again fastening his eyes and hopes upon another more remote figure, only to be again disappointed. When the school hour came without bringing the object of his wishes, he turned with a heavy heart to his duties, foreboding the worst, yet not worse than the reality. For a day or two he hoped against hope, that his cousin might yet appear, and that only some temporary illness had detained him at home; but, when forced to relinquish even this belief, he boldly resolved to go to Mr. Werter's house, and make inquiries after his missing scholar. It required some courage for the boy-tutor to do this, for from infancy he had looked upon Sidney's guardian as a cross and severe man ; and he smiled as he found himself mentally picturing him again, accompanied by those fieree canine attendants, which were the terror of his childhood. He went, but it need not be said only to meet with the coldest repulse from Ralph, whom only he saw, and whom he met on his grounds before reaching the house. He (47)   48        THlE MSER'S HEIR. scarcely listened to Addison's self-introduction and inquiry, before he sneeringly replied- "What do you teach in your school, young man, besides deceit and disobedience to parents and guardians? I think one day's lessons to Sidney will suffice in these branches, for he is an apt scholar." Addison began an indignant reply, zealous to exculpate both himself and his cousin from so unfounded a charge, but he was cut short. "You may go-I have other business to attend to, and I do not wish to hear you." "But you do me great injustice, sir, and I wish to explain." "I want no explanations-I advise you to go, sir. If you cannot get scholars without going about enticing little children-out of your district, too-then, perhaps, you had better try some other business." "Mr. Werter!" exclaimed Addison, so swelling with rage at this taunting and ridiculous accusation, that he could find no words with which to reply, excepting one that he would not use. He longed to call him by the compre- hensive name which so much falsehood deserved. "You had better go," repeated Ralph, with a cold sneer. "Don't make it necessary for me to complain to your trus- tees, and spoil your business, which seems to be none too good." "I will go from the presence of such a paltry old wretch," said Addison, desperately, his fine eyes flashing with the electrical light of wrath. "Any words that could move a man, would be thrown away upon you. You may do your worst." The young man turned away as he spoke, but Ralph, pale with rage, stepped quickly after him, raising his cane as he did so, and ordering him off.   THE ARREST AND RELEASE.       49 Perhaps he did not mean to strike, but wished to impose lie indignity of the threat upon young Jay, and at least eem to drive him away. But he mistook the spirit of his isitor, who no sooner perceived the assault than he turned [uickly around and stood still, with a face of ashy white- iess, it is true, but with features full of a warning ex- pression. Ralph read them not, for his upraised cane came down, rrazing the shoulder of the youth, while, so quick it eemed almost simultaneous with the blow, the stick was ent whirling through the air, and the old man was rolling [own the side of a steep hillock, upon the edge of which hey had stopped, and was received in a shallow pool of vater at its base. Addison had not struck him-nothing iould have tempted him to such an act-he had only vrenched from him his weapon, while his assailant's catas- rophe was owing entirely to a misstep backward on the illside, combined, doubtless, with his own great agitation. With the promptings of a generous nature, young Jay nstantly hastened to the side of his vanquished adversary, )ut all offers of assistance were angrily refused, with many threats of revenge. Having satisfied himself that Werter was not seriously hurt, Addison left him and returned homeward, not a little grieved at an adventure so untoward, and which might be used by his malicious opponent so greatly to his detriment. Poor, and without influential friends, he had made a violent enemy of a rich and unscrupulous man, and what amount of evil, both to himself and all whom he most loved, might he not expect to result from his imprudence. He feared the worst-and it came. In his school-room on the morrow, in the midst of his vondering and alarmed pupils, he was arrested by officers   of the law, and an hour later he was the tenant of a jail. He knew the tidings would speedily reach his parents, and, fearful of the distress it would occasion them, he has- tened to write them a letter, detailing all the events of the few preceding days, and treating his imprisonment as lightly as possible, although by no means sanguine of its speedy termination. Astonishment and terror filled the hearts of Mrs. Jay and her daughter when they received this letter, with which the sobbing Lizzie was at once despatched to her father, at the counting-house, who read the tidings with scarcely less agitation. Capt. Jay hastened to his son, and was re- lieved from part of his anxiety when he had heard the whole of Addison's simple, truthful story, and knew that he had committed no crime; but he dreaded the worst, from the vindictiveness of his enemy, whose discomfiture had been so signal and so mortifying. Never before did he feel the galling chains of poverty so painfully as now, when he reflected that he could not be accepted as bail for his son, nor was it any easy matter to procure the heavy security necessary for that purpose from other quarters. Werter had filled the neighborhood with reports of a cowardly and aggravated assault made upon him in an un- provoked manner, and the totally different aspect of the case related by the partial father was viewed with natural distrust. The required bail in the action commenced against Addisori was very large, and when a long, weary week had passed, the unfortunate youth was still the dis- graced tenant of a jail. Almost the only business acquain- tances of Captain Jay were his present employers, who had also been the owners of the vessels which he had com- manded for many years, but they were sordid men, devoid of all liberal and generous feeling. There were, indeed, others among the many who had long known the worth of   unfortunate family who would have come readily to ir relief in this hour of trial, if they had been applied to that purpose, or had even known the valuable service y could render, but the unhappy father, depressed by the ulses he had met, knew not where to turn for aid with- the prospect of the same mortifying refusals. lonths must elapse before the trial could take place, Addison was in great anxiety about his school, which lad begun to consider as his only means of self-support, which, in his present dilemma, became more important im than ever. He imagined his enemy trying to sup- it him in that quarter also, and seeking to wrest from his humble occupation. Harassed and chafed by this rehension, and by his disgraceful confinement, his ry daily increased, sleep forsook his pillow, and his th became impaired. rs. Jay received some visits of condolence from her' ds, and among others from the wife of a wealthy hbor, who advised patience and resignation, while the acted mother was thinking how her visiter's husband, one stroke of a pen, could set her child at liberty. Uis sympathizing friend went out of her humble home, d with her own condescension, and the charitable visit lad made, a bustling little woman entered, in a state of ;excitement, and sitting down almost breathless, fairly d Mrs. Jay into a seat beside her. wow, quick!" she said-" tell me all about it. I'll believe a word of it. Only to think of the horrid s they tell about poor Addison." Yhat have you heard, Miss Kepps?" asked Mrs. Jay. t's abominable! and it's in the newspapers, too." Vhat did you hear?" Vhy that Addison had tried to commit a highway rob- -and had knocked down old Mr. Werter, and nearly -.-.......  --^... '. .... ...-.-.. -. .., .    52        THE MSER'S HEIR. killed him, and was just going to take his pocket-book when some one came and he ran away." "Is it possible they tell such stories about my poor son?" said Mrs. Jay, in great agony-and Miss Kepps at once set about soothing her, by assuring her that nobody believed a word of it, and that she herself was ready to prove that it was all false, for she knew it was quite im- possible, and she only wished they would call on her to be a witness. "But I fear they would not let you be a witness, as you were not there," replied Mrs. Jay. "No matter for that; I could swear to his good charac- ter, could not I? and I would swear it so strong that they could not help believe me. Haven't I known him since he was a baby? The dear little fellow! How many a jacket have I made him, and how beautiful he used to look in them, to be sure." Miss Kepps' excitement continued unabated, and Mrs. Jay proceeded to relate to the kind-hearted seamstress the real state of the affair as her son had described it. "I knew it wns so," exclaimed the listener. "He did nothing wrong at all, not a single thing, and I'm so glad the old cur tumbled down the hill. I hope he got a good sousing. Was the water muddy?" "Rather yellowish," said Lizzy, smiling through her tears-" so Addison said." I'm glad of it! I hope he got it in his mouth. But iow what I want to know is, what Addison is in jail for, before he is tried or convicted, which he never will be?" "Oh, because that's the laiv," replied Lizzy, sobbing, "unless he can get bail that he won't run away, before his trial comes on." "Bail! what is that?" asked Miss Keppst with a very   THE ARREST AND RELEASE.      53 puzzled look, and wondering whether it could have any- thing to do with the bail of a kettle. "Why it means a surety. Some rich man who is worth a whole thousand dollars has to sign a bond for his appear- ance at court, so Addison says." "And do they have to pay the money?" asked Miss Kepps, with great interest. "Not if he keeps his word and appears, but if he runs away the bondsman has to pay." "Well, why hasn't somebody signed something then, and let him out?" "Because-because they are afraid of losing their mo- ney, I suppose. Papa has asked I don't know how many, and they all make some excuse, even the rich Smiths." "Well, it's a burning shame and a sin, that it is. Can a woman be bail?" "Yes, if she has money." "Well then, I'll be a bail myself. I'll go right away and do it." "But Miss Kepps," exclaimed both mother and daugh- ter, "you have not a thousand dollars?" "Hav'n't I, though? What do you suppose I have been working for, twenty-five years, then? I'll go and draw my money right out of the bank, and show it to the con- stables, or whoever it is that has got him, and then I'll sign any thing they choose, and Addison shall come out -that he shall. I am not afraid of his running away." Mrs. Jay and her daughter were both in tears of joy and gratitude, at this generous offer, which with some difference of detail was really carried into effect, Miss Kepps being accepted as bail, upon depositing her money with an officer of the court. That night Addison joined his family circle at home, where the generous sempstress was present to participate in the joy she had produced.   CHAPTER VII. SIDNEY REMOVED TO THE COUNTRY. RALPH WERTER did not mean to leave his demoniaca. work half done. The trustees of young Jay's school were his acquaintances, and his not very distant neighbors, who regarded him as a man of consequence, and desired to be on good terms with him. They were unfortunately weak- minded men also, who were easily influenced, and who did not trouble themselves much about the justice of an act which became convenient and politic. Mr. Werter told them that a young man, who would at- tack quiet old gentlemen, and roll them down hills, was not exactly the right sort of person to be entrusted with the education of children, even if he had the good fortune to get out of jail, of which there was no present prospect- and the trustees shook their heads and said they thought so too. They said they were very sorry, and very much astonished at what had taken place, because Mr. Jay seemed like a very excellent young man, whom the scho- lars all liked very much, and they did not know where they could find a substitute for him. But Ralph relieved them on this point also, for he knew if they procrastinated and held the matter "under advise- ment," that Addison would soon be at liberty, and would induce them to change their minds. He sought out, there- fore, an unemployed pedagogue, loaded him with recom- mendations from people who knew nothing about him, and sent him to be Addison's successor, which he immediately (54)   became, to the great terror of the little boys, and the greater grief of the large girls, for he was a cross-eyed and cross-tempered man, with bandy legs and yellow hair. The first day after young Jay's liberation he employed himself in seeking counsel to defend him on his approach- ing trial, and in laying the facts of the case before them, and on the second day he repaired to'his school district to begin to earn the large fees which he had promised, and which alone would absorb the wages of long months to come. How great would be his ruin if the suit was decided against him, and if he should be heavily amerced in da- mages, he did not dare to contemplate, but strong in the sense of innocence he hoped for the best, and he believed it impossible for any ingenuity to torture his act of self- defence into a crime. Alas! he knew little of what malice and Mamnion can do with that great engine, the law, when a friendless vic- tim is to be crushed or a gilded villain is to be saved. Addison intended to call upon the trustees and inform them of his readiness to resume his duties, and give them the true version of the affair which had led to his arrest, but his way led past the school house, and to his great alarm on approaching it, he saw that it was occupied, and he heard the loud voices of recitation and command issuing from the opened windows. Terrified at the new misfortune which he believed had befallen him, he stopped by the road- side until a dismissed class came rushing out, and were soon gathered around him, the larger boys eagerly inform- ing him of everything pertaining to the unwelcome change, while the smaller ones kept timidly aloof, as if they did not consider the late master entirely divested of his official terrors. With a full heart the discarded tutor listened to the news of his disgrace, and learned that Ralph was the direct au-   thor of it all. He heard, but scarcely comprehended the earnest appeals of his pupils to come back to them, and abandoning his now useless purpose of calling upon the trustees, he turned sorrowing upon his homeward way. His calamity may seem a light one, but it was not so to the poverty-haunted and almost friendless young man. The story of his dismissal would precede him wherever he went, and those who knew nothing of his guilt or inno- cence would judge of it by this act of his employers. It would bar him from any similar engagement, wherever ru- mor's baleful whisper could reach; and it would cut off from him the very means which were absolutely necessary to enable him to prove his innocence of the offence with which he was charged. Hope abandoned him, and he re- turned to his home utterly disconsolate, until reanimated by the'soothing and cheering voice of a mother, who could not be quite miserable while she saw her beloved son, and knew him to be innocent of crime. Sidney, in the meantime, remained in entire ignorance of everything which had happened to his cousin, since their last interview, and, after a few weeks had passed away he was surprised to learn that he was again to be sent to school. Mr. Werter had a farmer cousin residing in the interior of the State, several hundred miles distant from the city, to whom he had resolved to send the boy, ostensibly for his health and for the benefit of a neighboring academy, but really for the purpose of keeping him away from his mater- nal relations, as well as from other enlightening influences. He accompanied him there, and thus fortunately secured for the child a quiet and comfortable home, where he was kindly treated and where his freedom from the domestic tyranny to which he had so long been subjected, was in it- self no small measure of bliss. He had never fully com-   prehended the weight of his chains until he had thus hap- pily thrown them off, and in his new home he soon began to exhibit something of the usual hilarity of childhood. His distance from Addison was not a source of much sor- row to him, because heofelt that he was before as effectually separated from him by the imperious will of his guardian, as if oceans had rolled between them. Besides he looked forward with glad anticipation to the time when he should learn the mystery of writing, and thus be able to communicate with his cousin, and keep up an interchange of those friendly and affectionate senti- ments which he was sure they mutually entertained. He longed especially to inform him fully of all the events which had occurred to prevent his, returning to school- being very fearful that Addison might believe him in some way at fault. With what delight did he anticipate his first letter to his friend, and with what assiduity did he resolve to pursue that one valuable branch of his studies which was to place this new power in his hands. Little did the artless boy dream what wily heads could plot and guilty hands could execute of craft and guile to disappoint and defeat his innocent and virtuous designs. Ralph had foreseen this danger, and he took his mea- sures accordingly. "The boy may become home-sick," he said to the farmer, who was an ignorant and unsuspecting man, "and may wish to write to me or to some of his acquaintances. I am sorry to say he has some bad associates, and, as his guar- dian, you know it is my right and duty to know with whom he corresponds. Make sure, therefore, that he sends no letter which does not pass through your hands-and do you direct it to my care and mail it yourself. Can you do this?" "O, very easily-I'll speak to Brock, the postmaster, 5*   58        THE MSER'S HE1R. about it, too, and he'll stop them, if the boy should happen to take any there without my knowledge, which I dcn't think he can do, for it is four miles to the nearest post- office." But Brock might overlook it." "Not very well. There ain't more'n two letters a week mailed at his office, and they say his wife and daughters always keeps them a day or two, to peep into them, and turn out the edges and try to read them." "Very well, I'll depend on you and Mr. Brock. It is all for Sidney's good, you know." "Of course it is-lots of mischief these little fellows would get into, if they warn't watched-cause they never know what's for their good." Mr. Reed was very accommodating, because his city cousin paid a liberal price for the lad's support and school- ing,- and seemed to be acting the part of a guardian, who, though a little strict and stern, was still watchful of his ward's best interests.   CHAPTER VIII. POVERTY AND ITS TROUBLES. FOR three weeks Ralph's wrath burned hotly against the poor tutor, and then other reflections began to mingle with his dreams of revenge. A public trial might lead to inci- dental inquiries in relation to other things, which he feared to have discussed, and there was danger that members of his own family, perhaps even Sidney, might be called upon the stand as witnesses. This he knew would lead to some strange and startling disclosures, and although he was guiltless of any legal crime towards his ward-for he had always been shrewd enough to void that-yet he knew there was such a thing possible as "taking away his stew- ardship" and placing another guardian over the orphan. He had indeed no serious fears on this point, for he knew well the vast vantage ground which possession both of the office and the estates gave him over any other claimants, and, besides this, he chuckled over the thought that, although his guardianship could be annulled, his relation- ship could not be. He would be the legal heir of his nephew, if the latter did not live to the age when he would be legally empowered to dispose of his property by will, and he made confident calculations that the disease which was so evidently at work in poor Sidney's system would prevent his ever attaining to manhood. Yet he feared ex- posure and disgrace-he feared the loss of a trusteeship which was rolling its yearly tens of thousands into his pocket, never, probably, to be accounted for, or inquired (59) S.   60        THE MSER'S HEIR, after, and he feared, above all, the possibility (a mere possi- bility, it seemed) that Sidney, under other care and in a milder clime, with the best medical aid, might be restored to health. In such a contingency his dreams of wealth would be over, the gorgeous visions which he had so long gloatingly contemplated would dissolve like the mirage of the desert, and he would be left by its departing splendors a beggar and a debtor, unable to account for the half of his liabili- ties to his ward. To what extreme measures he might not resort to prevent such a result, it is difficult to say, but he resolved at least to leave nothing undone now that could strengthen his position or ward off impending danger. His quarrel with youhg Jay became a trifling matter in his estimation, and he began heartily to wish that his im- prudent suit had never been commenced. For a while after Addison's release on bail he indulged the hope that he would run away, and he paid frequent visits to the city and to his lawyer, in expectation of this happy result; but there were no indications of any such design on the part ofJ his adversary.  Growing more and more solicitous to prevent the further agitation of so dangerous an affair, he resolved upon a new plan of action, by which he hoped not only to end the liti- gation, but to remove the young man to so great a distance from Sidney that he could exercise no further influence upon him. -In-pursuance of this plan he called upon an old Spanish merchant, whom he knew to be connected'with an exten- sive house at Barbadoes, and with whom his own acquaint- ance had originated, many years previous, under the fol- lowing circumstanceS. Both Ralph and his deceased brother were Scotchmen, whos first quebt after Fortune's smiles had led them to    POVERTY AND ITS TROUBLES.      61 the West Indies, and who had resided several years at Barbadoes, without any satisfactory success in the great object of their pursuit. When Ralph had resolved to come to America, he procured letters of introduction to Senor Rizzio, who was then a junior member of a southern mer- cantile firm, sent out to establish a branch of their house in the American metropolis, but who had since become a very wealthy man, and a permanent resident of New York. Hugh Werter did not follow his brother to New York until several years after the latter had become established there, and had reported to him the favorable aspect of his own fortunes, and when he did so, he also brought letters to the same Senor Rizzio, who had kindly assisted both of these young men in their first efforts to obtain employ- ment, and the acquaintance which he had thus begun between Ralph and the Spaniard had been ever since kept up, although with no particular intimacy, and certainly with no extraordinary demonstration of gratitude from the obliged party. It was natural that, in seeking for a foreign situation to which he might exile young Jay, Werter's thoughts should turn directly to Rizzio, as the man most likely to advance his project, especially as he knew that the Spaniard had already forwarded several of his American clerks to the southern house. To Ralph's inquiries whether he knew of any profitable occupation for an intelligent young Ameri- can at Barbadoes, he promptly replied in the affirmative. "Perhaps you have a vacancy in your own house?" "Yes, ever since the last fever season," said the Spaniard, shrugging his shoulders. "He must have a good constitution who goes-the last two poor fellows I sent out-" "Went further, I suppose," said Ralph, interrupting   62        THE MSER'S HEIR. him. "They must take their chance of that. People die other places besides Barbadoes, I believe." The Spaniard bowed. "You take these things into consideration in your sala- ries, I presume 2" "We will pay reasonably for a clever, active young American, who speaks Spanish a little and can learn it readily. The truth is, we want several of this description, and it is very difficult to get them." Rizzio spoke frankly, and not like a man who was dis- posed to drive a hard bargain.- "Very well," said Werter, "I think I can help you to exactly such a one as you want; but there are some reasons why I do not wish the applicant whom I shall send you to know that I am befriending him. May I depend on your secrecy?" "Certainly; I will not mention your name, if you desire it; but about the fever?" 5 "Leave it to me to have that sufficiently explained to him, if you please; for, since fear kills more than fever, it is better he should not know the precise fate of his prede- cessors. He has a good constitution, and will run but little risk." "Perhaps you are right; I leave it entirely to you." "Do you ever advertise for such clerks?"  We did formerly, but our advertisements never brought us the right sort of people, and we gave it up." ' "Have you any objection to putting a single advertise- ,mentin a morning paper to this effect?" "Not in the least-it shall be inserted to-morrow, if you wish it." Cis There are some reasons why this is desirable, and I will be much obliged to you if you will have it done." - Rizzio named the newspaper in which the notice would   POVERTY AND ITS TROUBLES.       63 appear, and Werter departed, leaving the merchant a little puzzled at his singular mode of doing business,' but really ruspecting nothing wrong. Ralph next visited his lawyer, whom he now took fully into his confidence, in relation to his anxiety to suppress the suit and get the young defendant out of the country; and having promised the attorney quite as liberal a fee for success in this scheme, as, he could obtain if the trial were to take place, he found in him a ready and able coadjutor. It was no difficult matter for Mr. Attorney Boggs to bring the morrow's advertisement to the notice of young Jay, through the aid of a third party, nor to have a sug- gestion made to him that it would be a most eligible post for himself, if he were not under heavy bonds to remain in the country. And when Addison, with a boy's love of ad- venture and enterprize, sharpened by the very conscious- ness of the legal restrictions imposed upon him, expressed an earnest wish to go, it was an easy matter again for Mr. Attorney Boggs' confidential friend to intimate that possi- bly the plaintiff in the suit against him might be induced to settle it on mere payment of the costs and an apology-or something like that. "I'll never apologize," said Addison; " but if he really thinks I knocked or pushed him down, I would assure him I did not-I would explain-" "And pay the costs ." said his questioner, quickly. "I ought not to do that-but for the sake of this oppor, tunity to get into business, I would do so ; that is, of course, if my parents approved of my going." "I know Boggs very well, and will sound him on this subject, if you wish." Addison was eager to assent, but he resolved to conlt   ;4       uTHE MSER'S HEIR.           X his pareents first, and he accordingly put off his officiou friond for a day or two. Captain Jay heard his son's scheme with incredulity, believing neither in his ability to procure the situation, nor in the placability of Ralph Werter, but expressing his opinion that the opportunity was a golden one for somebody to connect his fortunes with those of the rich Riziio. Mr. Jay had been too much a traveller himself, and had sojourned too much in all latitudes, to think seriously of either distance or climate as an objection to his sons accepting the place, if it should prove attainable; and although Addison's mother heard of the project with great alarm and grief, her anxiety for her so 's welfare, and especially for his extrication from his psent troubles, prevented her from opposing it.    ) Thus encouraged, and placing an increased value upon the prize by reason of the doubts and difficulties which lay in the path of attainment, Addison sought out the friend of Mr. Boggs, and gladly accepted of his offered fmediation. It resulted as might have been expected. Ralph proved eminently placable, and everything was readily arranged, eontingent upon the success of the application to Mr. Rizzio, which young Jay lost no time in making; and so well had the way been smoothed before him, that even there a ftrst interview settled the engagement between the parties. , Overflowing with delight, Addison returned home, carryi ing both joy and grief into the famnily circle, but the first tert:tsensation wa that of relief and pleasure at the re- lease from the impending prosecution, which had so long it'teniled tiin to te impoverished family. A salary, moderate at first, but to be increased each succeeding year,  *    \   POVERTY AND ITS TROUBLES.      65 gave promise of enabling the young man not only to sup- port himself, but to contribute materially to the assistance of his parents, which had long been an object of his earnest desire Although greatly grieved to leave his friends, he maintained a show of cheerfulness, and partly sustained the failing spirits of his mother and sister, by the seeming exuberance of his own. He took much pains before leaving to ascertain where his cousin Sidney was, in order that he might open a cor- respondence with him; but his evil genius, who, unknown to himself, was so adroitly guiding all his movements, con- trived to have him supplied with information on this point, which was near enough correct to prevent suspicion, yet erroneous enough to mislead. He wrote a long and affectionate letter to Sidney, and if he did not direct it to Kamschatka, he might as well have done so as to use the address furnished him by Mr. Boggs' friend, which that gentleman had received from Boggs, and which the attorney, of course, had procured from Ralph. Not content with this step, Addison exacted from his mother a promise that, when Sidney returned home, which he supposed would be within a few months, she should take pains to communicate with him in some way, and renew if possible the acquaintance and intimacy of former years, for his heart yearned with pity for the sad orphan boy, whom he knew to be poor and friendless, in the midst of all his great wealth. Thus Addison Jay went from home in his seventeenth year, doubly the victim of deceit, following the phantom of Fortune to a land where it soon might be transformed to the hideous spectre of disease and death. Little did he dream that five long years would elapse before he again should see his native land, that an equal period of absence would be Sidney's lot, that in the mean time his parents 6   66    THE MSER'S HEIR.      - would descend to a still lower depth of poverty, and Ralph Werter, relieved from the presence of those he most dreaded, would rise to a higher prosperity, in the pleni- tude of another's wealth, which he enjoyed unquestioned, and from which he resolved never to part.    CHAPTER IX. THE COUSINS AND THEIR TRIALS. FIVE years! How much is comprised in that brief phrase, over which the pen glides so easily! How strange ind varied were the experiences which that little interval )f time, now a mere point in the history of the past, brought to the subjects of our narrative. Ralph Werter had abandoned his country residence, and had taken a stylish house in town, greatly to the gratifica- tion of his wife and daughters, who, by dint of extravagant dressing and costly entertainments had become known and countenanced among the ton. His own taste was not na- turally for display, but he had suffered himself to be over- ruled in this respect by his family, while his fondness for being thought and called rich reconciled him to the cost of such a reputation. He became known on 'Change-he was hand and glove with several millionaires-and was himself considered by the community to be quite one of that golden variety of the human animal. He was now more than sixty years of age, and his experience had not been an exception to the rule, that the heart in which avarice is the dominant passion becomes more grasping with increas- ing years-more deaf to the demands of justice, more callous to the calls of pity. His prediction of Sidney's early death had not been verified, and he was at times alarmed at the tenacity of' life exhibited by his ward in the midst of a disease which every year became more manifest. He was still confident (67)   UO        TUBl. X16u1 i O XJCcAA that the boy could not live to manhood; but even if it were possible that he should briefly survive that period, he hoped to keep him in his present state of exile, ignorant of his rights, and free from any influences which might tend to thwart his own designs. Sidney's own fortunes had been mild and genial with the exception of that illness, which, while giving him but little real pain or anxiety, seemed to be gradually wearing away his vital powers. His home was a quiet and com- fortable one, where he had found some true friends, and one beloved playmate, in a little daughter of Mr. Reed, who became to him all that a sister could have been. He never regretted his change of residence, and, but for his desire to see his old friend Sukey, he would have preferred never to return to his former abode. Yet he had begun to entertain grateful feelings towards hig uncle for his kindness in providing him so pleasant a home, and allowing him to remain so long unmolested in it. His greatest trial was his separation from Addison, and the improbability of his ever seeing him again, for his uncle had been careful to have him informed of his cousin's departure to the West Indies. Sidney's education had progressed with rapidity, and he had within the first year of his residence in the country written a long letter to Ad- dison at Barbadoes, and another to his cousin Lizzie at New York, which epistles cost him a great outlay of time and mental labor to perfect, and both of which met with as warm a reception as he could have anticipated-for they found their way in a few days into Ralph Werter? kitchen fire. Many long months he patiently waited and looked for the answets to these burnt letters, rising daily with the fresh hope that that was to be the blissful day when they -would? come, and retiring nightly with the belief that it    A ArIA no Ul a would be to-morrow. Then he wrote again to Addison, with a similar result, extending the period of disappointed expectations through another half year, and then gradually abandoning the hope, and giving way to the sad thought that he was forgotten and not cared for. But the heart of childhood closed over these wounds- other friends supplied the place of the lost, and the wronged orphan was still happier than those who usurped his rights, and happier, alas! than that unfortunate friend by whom he supposed himself neglected. Addison entered upon his new business with success, and with entire satisfaction to his employers, but within three months after his arrival out, the unhealthy season com- menced, and the approach of the dreaded fever began to be heralded. He was among its first subjects, and, narrowly escaping death, he remained for weeks prostrated, and for months enfeebled, by the severity of his attack.  Nearly a year elapsed before his strength was fully restored, and, re- joicing in the belief that he was fully acclimated, he daunt- lessly awaited at his post the second arrival of the scourge, but only to be again thrown upon a bed of pain, and again to endure all his former protracted illness, and still more protracted convalescence. Disheartened by these sad experiences, he did not dare to hope, when again restored, that his sufferings had se- cured him any immunity for the future, and he began to think of retreating -before so great a  peril, and returning home, although with his purposes all unaccomplished.  But he was advised that his acclimation was now undoubtedly complete, and that he might be considered as holding a re- ceipt in full from the Pestilence, which would faithfully re- spect his claims to forbearance in future, and he resolved to remain.  Less sanguine, however, than before-less hope-, 6*  ful and joyous of heart-he had lost his playful spirits, his elasticity of motion, and his merry, ringing laughter; but for these changes there were other reasons besides his per- sonal misfortunes. Sickness and increased poverty had come upon those most dear to him, whom he had left at home, and whom he had vainly hoped ere this to be able materially to assist. Captain Jay had been obliged by illness, and nearly total deprivation of sight, to abandon his business, which, slight as it was, had been almost the only support of his family, and now, when the chief means of their living was cut off, its expenses were increased by the necessity of medical at- tendance. Addison had heard from time to time, by letters from Lizzie, of the progress of misfortune at home, and he had gladly sent every dollar he could spare for their relief; but with the most painful economy he could save but little out of Jhis income, which was greatly reduced by his own sick- ness. He would gladly have withheld from his friends the tidings of his own afflictions; but, as he could not properly do this, he spoke as lightly as possible of them, and sent no word of wail to hearts already stricken and desponding.. The four succeeding years were marked by no striking event in his own experience, and by no favorable change in the affairs of his friends, whose poverty remained unmiti- gated and unrelieved, excepting by his own efforts. Regu- larly and cheerfully, through all that period, his monthly salary was remitted to his father, with. the exception of a sum barely sufficient for his own economical support; and many of his young associates, more profuse of expenditure, wondered at the seeming parsimony indicated by his style -of living,- He mingled but little in society, and- formed but few: acquaintances, but he made one friend, worthy of the name, whose companionship was his solace in many a   sad hour, and whose attachment to him was only equalled by his own reciprocating regard. Like himself, however, Edward Hazleton was an early struggler against adversity, a buffeter of the waves of for- tune, which yet could never wholly wreck a vessel so buoy- antly freighted, for he was one of the most light-hearted and merry of mortals.  Care sat easily upon him, or rather it never could be said to more than flit across his heart, yet although never bemoaning his own hardships, he had a ready appreciation and sympathy for the sufferings of others.   Two minds so congenial to each other could not fail to harmonize and coalesce, affording to each that sin- cere delight of which true friendship is ever the source. Edward was the son of a widow lady who lived in retire- ment, almost in seclusion, but whose few associates were among the first class of citizens.  Addison knew nothing of her history excepting what observation taught him, that some deep, abiding grief, probably that of bereavement, was her lot. Hier son was her life, her joy, her hope, the great compensation for, a great sorrow; and richly, fondly, he fulfilled his blessed mission.  Mother had never more dutiful son; son never a more loving mother. In his younger years she had used her most diligent efforts to be- stow upon him a good education, and now he richly repaidl the obligation, by using his acquirements for her mainte- nance and comfort. Scanty means, indeed, were his as yet, but his store of hope and joyous anticipations for the future was absolutely boundless, and he fortunately suc- ceeded in infusing some portion of this feeling, tempered by soberer reason, into the heart of his mother, who was yet scarcely past the middle age of life. But great as was the pleasure which Addison derived from such a friend, he pined for those still more beloved and he dreaded daily to hear still sadder tidings of their    72       THE MSER'S HEIR. penury and distress. He knew the worst had not been told him, and his only consolation for his prolonged absence was the certainty that his earnings were a source of relief for his parents and sister, though he little dreamed that it was nearly all their support. Yet the sums he was able to save and remit were not large, and he flattered himself that he could gain at least an equal stipend in his natiends. city, and have the satisfaction of being near his friends. This hope grew upon him as he contemplated it, until it became almost a certainty in his estimation, and then he resolved to go. Unspeakable was his delight, when this resolution was fully formed, at the prospect of a re-nion with those so dearly beloved, and the only alloy which now mingled with his cup of bliss was regret at parting with Edward. The young friends, however, confidently hoped to meet again, and agreed upon a correspondence, which should in some degree lessen the pain of separation. Addison stated his wishes to his employers, received from them a reluctant but honorable dismissal, with a high testi- monial to his worth and fidelity, and a free passage home in a ship about to sail for New York. He embarked so soon after resolving to go, that there was no time to send home tidings of his approach, so tha his return was entirely unheralded  Had it been other wise, something doubtless would have been done to concea from a first view of the beloved visitor the deph of tha destitution to which his friends ere reduced, but no there was no disguise. Captain Jay, whose incapacity for business was tota and apparently permanent, had taken a still more humb house than his before unpretending cottage-he had part( Vith the most valuable articles of his furniture, replvair them with substitutes of commoner mateial--and eve thing that partook of show or finery ia the wardrobe of t   THE COUSINS AND THEIR TRIALS.     73 family, had also been little by little sacrificed for the ne- cessities of subsistence. These changes had chiefly been made during the first two years of Addison's absence, before his established health and increasing pay had enabled him to make any considerable remittances home, and since that period those contributions, with the scanty earnings of Lizzie, had been the sole source of support. With what pain, yet with what affectionate gratitude, the invalid father received these monthly offerings of filial love-with what tenderness and solicitude he regarded his toiling but uncomplaining daugh- ter--words are inadequate to tell. Lizzie obtained work from a fashionable dress-maker, which she was allowed to do at home, but alas! at those sadly unremunerating prices which have ever rewarded the labors of the "needle slave."  Often she saw her handi- work upon flaunting and fashionable ladies of the neighbor- hood, who in beauty and grace, and all the true merit of womanhood, were immeasurably below the humble seam- stress who had contributed to their adornment. Not un- frequently, indeed, had she labored for the Misses Werter, unknown to them, and receiving but a pittance of the ex- travagant sums which her principal charged for her work. It was to such a home that Addison came abruptly and unlooked for, changing it to a palace of delight, and ren- dering all the loving little circle for a while forgetful that they had any cause for care or anxiety. fIt would be pleasant to linger in contemplation of this scene of domestic bliss-to dwell upon the many subse- quent hours of enjoyment which, despite every privation, were allotted to this guileless family; but other events claim the attention of narrator and reader, and hasten us from these alluring themes. Addison was not long in learning the full extent of his   74        THE MSER'S HEIR. parents' poverty, and he knew he had no time for inaction, if he would not behold even a worse state of things than already existed. He hastened to seek business, and while none better was attainable, he sought and found employ- ment as a scrivener, an occupation for which his rapid and elegant penmanship eminently qualifed him, and in which hehad the advantage of being able to work at home. In this labor he had the satisfaction of being able, by great diligence, nearly to equal the amount of his former earn- ings, and although he had adopted it only as a temporary resort, yet when a year had passed away, he was still en- gaged at his tedious and never-ending tasks, without any better promise for the future.  - His youth was passing away, his health was impaired- he saw his beloved sister sinking under toils similar to his own, and his heart at times grew sad and very heavy, with its load of cares and bitter anticipations. e had made frequent attempts to obtain business which might give some increased promise for that far future which now stretched with such gloomy prospect before him; but all his many efforts to this end had been unsuccessful-for he was with- out influential friends or patronage. It was on an evening when he had returned greatly dis. appointed from an application of this kind, which had giver more than its usual promise, and the failure of which pro duced more than usual dejection, that the knock of a visitor was heard at the door. Addison stepped quickly to the door and opened it, admitting a young, slight man, who advanced hesitatingly into the centr of the room, looking by turns at each individual present, and then sinking si- lently into  chair, as if overcome by fatigue or emotion. He had removed his hat on entering, and  mass of ches- nut curls were clustering rounda pale, white forehead, bg- neath which eyes of unnatural brilliancy shone like meteors    THE COUSINS AND THEIR TRIALS.     75 upon the astonished group around him, and became finally fixed with a steady gaze upon Addison. "You do not know me," he said at length, mournfully. Faint as was the voice, Addison started as if electrified by its first tone, a look of transport illumined his face, and he sprang to the side of his visiter, grasping each hand in his own. "Sidney! Cousin Sidney!"h e  exclaimed, "  It is in- deed you. Speak to me, that I may make sure I do not dream. "It is Sidney!"  said the guest, smiling through his flowing tears. "Are you really so glad to see me? Then I am happy indeed!" A reproachful look from Addison said more than the words with which he replied- "Glad, did you say, Sidney?" "You never received my letters then, or you answered them, and they miscarried? Or there is something--some excuse-some reason why for five weary years I have hoped to see you, or to read one line traced by your hands, and have been ever disappointed until now." Sidney spoke rapidly and with agitation. "I have never received a letter or a message from you. I have written four times to you, imploring you to answer me, however briefly-I have thought of you, dreamed of you, prayed for you, as if you had been my brother, and yet, oh! Sidney, you can ask me if I am glad to see you!" "Forgive me, Addison-I see it all-and all can be explained hereafter. Let me see my aunt and cousin Lizzie now," and passing to the side of the mother and. daughter, who had remained almost breathless witnesses of the extraordinary scene, he blushingly kissed them both and said- "I have thought often and much of you since my ac-   .quaintance with Addison at school, for he drew such a pic- ture of you as could not easily be forgotten. Besides which he told me you cherished a regard for me, and my friends, Heaven knows, have been few !" The young man spoke with ease and self-possession, and in a short time all feeling of restraint was banished from the little circle of relatives, who conversed freely and earn- estly together. "And when did you return to your uncle's?" asked Addison, "and how is it that he has consented to your visiting us!" "I have not yet returned to my uncle's, nor shall I until to-morrow, if you can give me shelter for the night. I did not reach the city until too late an hour to admit of my going out to   ville this evening, and I thought the op- portunity a favorable one for seeing you." "Then you did not know that Mr. Werter had become a resident of the city ? How fortunate for us!" "Uncle Ralph resides in the city! No, I did not know it, and for once I am glad of my ignorance. How long has this been so ?" "For nearly a year-and he is living in great style, I assure you-quite one of the nabobs-keeps a carriage, and is called a millionaire." "That is strange-I do not think he can be very rich." Addison looked inquiringly at his cousin, but there was nothing in his countenance or tone of voice which indicated any doubt or suspicion of his guardian; for Sidney still remained as utterly unconscious of his own wealth as he was on the day he left his uncle's roof. Mr. Reed could not have informed him, if he had desired, for he himself knew nothing more in regard to it than Werter had chosen to tell him, and from that secluded spot where-he dwelt, the affairs of the great city and its inhabitants were almost    as completely shut out as if they had been those of another world. Ralph's quarterly letter, business-like and brief, containing the stipulated remittance to the farmer, may be said to be all that he ever heard or cared to hear from New York. Sidney's relations, of course, could not sus- pect so extraordinary a state of things, or they would at once have informed him of what it was so very proper for him to know, and, viewed in this erroneous light, much that the young man said and did, of course seemed strangely enigmatical. He could not fail to perceive the very evi- dent signs of a poverty so very nearly approaching desti- tution as that of his friends, yet there was nothing in his appearance or language to indicate that he thought their fortunes different from his own, or that he had any power to assist them. Nothing indeed could be more disinter- ested than Addison's affection for Sidney, which, in its inception and progress, had been uncontaminated by one mercenary thought, but his parents could not fail to see the great advantage which their unportioned children might derive from the friendship and favor of their wealthy cousin, and in their solicitude they almost expected to hear the young heir giving some assurance of future patronage or protection. "Is it not strange," asked Mrs. Jay, "that your uncle did not inform you of his change of residence, when he wrote for you to return?' "ie did not write for me to return, nor does he expect me," replied Sidney, with a more grave look than he had before worn. "You may not have heard, and by this light you may not, perhaps, perceive, that I am in feeble health, and-and-perhaps I should say that I am se- riously ill. At all events, a physician who has frequently visited me in the country, has earnestly advised that I should spend the approaching winter in a warm climate, 7   78        THE MSER'S HEIR. and has insisted upon my hastening home to prepare for my journey. Indeed, a recent severe attack of hemmor. rhage from the lungs so much alarmed him, that he would not hear of my delaying my departure for the time neces- sary to write and receive an answer from my guardian, which would require about a fortnight, and so I have come, although I have very little idea that Uncle Ralph will allow me to-go south." The pain which this alarming intelligence gave the lis- teners prevented them from particularly noticing the closing remark, which implied so complete a dependence on his guardian, and submission to his control, and all seemed anxious to cheer both the invalid and themselves with en- couragement and hope. A southern climate would work wonders for him-the sea voyage itself would cure him, if indeed he had any serious illness, which they tried very hard to doubt, and which Sidney, unwilling to distress them, did not re-affirm. He did not believe himself incurable, but he believed there was danger, although the term was scarcely appropriate in relation to a change which he contemplated with so much calmness, and at times with positive pleasure. Their conversation was protracted to a late hour at night, and ran upon numberless themes, yet strangely enough, it did not lead to an elucidation of the great secret which had so long been withheld from young Werter, although it often seemed to approach that point. If it had been possible for his relations to conjecture so strange a thing as his ignorance on this subject, there was enough in his language and deportment to strengthen a sus- picion once aroused; but, singularly enough, Sidney retired to rest that night, and in the morning parted with his friends, as unenlightened as he came. Fortunately, however, he did not leave them without a   I'Y       THE COUSINS AND THEIR TRIALS.      79 resolution and a promise soon to see them again. On this point he said he would not now be ruled, for however he might defer to his uncle's opinion in some matters, he was sure he had arrived at an age when he had a right to con- trol his personal movements and the choice of his acquaint- ances. ? t S    I'   CHAPTER X. HEALTH AND WEALTH. RALPH WERTER turned almost white with alarm when, seated at his writing desk that morning, making out numer- ous little quarterly bills for rent, in all of which his name bore the suffix of guardian or trustee, his nephew was unex- pectedly shown into the room, and stood-before him. His first decided impression was that Sidney had learned all that related to his affairs, and had come to demand his rights, and with a confused and guilty look he brushed the tell-tale papers aside, and thrust them into the desk before rising to receive him. Greeting him with as much show of kindness as he could assume, he soon perceived to his great relief that his fears were as yet groundless; and Sidney's pale, thin cheeks, to- gether with the story which he told of his illness, and the cause of his return, soon restored his equanimity and his hopes. He answered with words of sympathy, but with a cold, calculating look, and he surveyed the lineaments of his nephew as if he were reading the title deeds to his posses- sions. In relation to the proposed journey, he said he would consult his own physician, who would be a better judge of the utility of such a step than any country doctor could be, but the real object of his intended consultation was of course very different -from the assumed one. Could a warm cli- mate arrest a disease so far -progressed? Was there any danger that the patient's life could be protracted over the sixteen months' interval which yet stretched between him (80)   HEALTH AND WEALTH.        81 I and the age of majority-? These were the questions which perplexed him, and which he wished solved before deciding on so important-a step. That Sidney should go somewhere far away from home, he was not only willing, but anxious, for he had been greatly disturbed by his re-appearance at this particular time, when there was so much in his. own altered style of living to excite inquiry and suspicion. Besides, his nephew had frankly told him, much to his alarm, of his visit to the Jay family, and while he was both rejoiced and surprised that such an interview had not produced the result he most dreaded, he resolved not to hazard a repeti- tion of the danger, if it could be avoided. Yet, to send the invalid boy back to the country might seem cruel and despotic to those who knew the object of his return to New York, and might possibly prove impracticable from Sid- ney's own opposition. He wished to avoid anything like a conflict of opinion with his ward, now so nearly a man, for he little knew how yielding and subdued was the spirit which had been crushed by his own early training. He should travel, then, as he desired-such was Ralph's conclusion-if the physicians thought there'was no cure in travel, or in change of climate; and, until he went, his illness would be a pretext for keeping him closely at home, unexposed to the dangerous intercourse with the world. As to his destination, if travel should be decided on, no place could be named too remote to gain the guardian's consent, for he well knew that the invalid might attain so discouraging a distance from home that he would never at- tempt to repass it. Sidney met his aunt and cousins with a friendly feeling and an entire oblivion of past grievances, and there was some show of cordiality in their reception of him; but Mrs. Werter manifested so evident a restraint and uneasi- 7*   Oo      T THE MSER'S HEIR. ness in his presence, that, confiding and unsuspicious as he was, he could not fail to observe it. It did not seem strange to him, however,- for there was enough in the mem- ory of former hostilities to account for it-hostilities which the recurring habit of boyish fear made him momentarily anticipate were about to break out afresh. %He grew shy and sensitive again in her presence, and fancied that the sharp voice which had been the terror of his childhood was constantly about to interrogate him as to the reason of his coming home, to denounce his folly and presumption, and perhaps to order his return. But there was one individual in the family of Mr. Wer- ter whose delight at Sidney's arrival was unalloyed, and whom he was equally rejoiced to meet-it was the humble slave, who had been the friend and religious tutor of the child, and for whom his affection had been ever fresh and sincere. He had brought her some little presents, which she greatly prized as a proof of his remembrance, but he found her pining for a greater boon than he could bestow, which was freedom. "If I am ever rich, Sukey-no, I do not mean rich- but if I ever should have money enough to buy you, I certainly will make you free," said her young friend, earnestly. Sukey thanked him, but took little courage from the promise. Her master, she said, had grown so rich now, and she had served him so long and faithfully, that he might well afford to let her go, and she thought, perhaps, if Sidney should intercede with him for her, he might do so. This commission the young man undertook, and faith- fully performed, although with no success-unless it was success to infuse some hope into the heart of his old friend, for Ralph did not seem inexorable, but promised to think of it, and to grant the request at some time in the indefinite e        .           I'   future. Indeed, he said, he always had promised Sukey that, if she were faithful and industrious, he would give her her freedom before she died-but it was not convenient for him to spare her just yet. The fatigue of travel, and the earnest persuasions of his guardian, retained the invalid within doors for two days after his arrival, but he resolved that if the third day should prove fair, he would again visit Addison, and in order that there should be no concealment on his part, he mentioned his purpose on the preceding evening to his uncle. This circumstance hastened Ralph's intended movements. He informed Sidney that he had made an appointment with a physician to see him on the following morning, in order to judge of the propriety of his proposed journey, and he begged that he would not go out until after the interview and examination. To this Sidney could not object, and on the morrow he submitted patiently to some half hour's questioning and inspection from a med- ical man, who certainly was not Mr. Werter's family physi- cian, and who, although connected with the regular faculty, and accounted a man of skill, had twice been under the cognizance of a court of justice for certain mal- feasances, of which he had barely escaped conviction. Dr. Brail's practice had long ceased to be a lucrative one, nor could he now number any respectable families among his patrons; he had been surprised, therefore, and gratified at the present unexpected demand for his services. He was a shrewd man, too-he knew something of the his- tory of the Werters, and added to his knowledge by a little indirect questioning of Ralph, and he was not long in forming a tolerably correct guess of the position of affairs. When he had questioned Sidney, rudely and abruptly enough, and had felt of him, and rapped him on the spine, and on -the chest, and had listened to his respiration, and ---,I    . .   84        THE MSER'S HEIR. to the beatings of his heart, he shook his head ominously, and told the patient he might withdraw, and he would give his opinion to his uncle. "You think he is in a consumption?" he said, quickly, to Ralph, when the door had closed upon Sidney. The questioner watched closely the countenance of the old man, as he spoke. "Yes," said Ralph, in no tone of sorrow and with no sign of emotion; "Dr. Lee pronounced him so years ago- I am surprised that he has lasted so long." Brail perceived that another word might have been sub- stituted for 'surprised' in his companion's reply, but he asked another question before giving his own opinion, for he wished to make sure that he was about to give welcome tidings to'his wealthy patron. "Has he been long under Dr. Lee's charge?" "Not at all-he has been living in the country, and be- fore he went from home we did not consider him ill enough to need medical treatment."  "Yet he was pronounced hopelessly consumptive by the first physician in the city," thought Brail, and his conjec- tures became certainties. "What do you think of him, Doctor? Do you too pro- nounce him consumptive?" "Most assuredly." "He is very desirous to go South. Some of his friends also wish and expect it. Do you think it can materially affect the result?"   - There was an evident look of anxiety accompanying this remark, and Brail saw it. "You need not fear to send him," he said, am- biguously. "It will not hurt him?" "Nor do him any good. It may add a few months to Xl   %If      WEALTH AND WEALTH.        8S his life-but a year, at the very farthest, will tell the whole story." "You feel quite certain of this?" "Quite-there are some symptoms in this disease which never deceive us, and although I am sorry to distress you, yet the truth must be told." Ralph looked as if he could bear it, and Brail went away with a liberal fee. Sidney was immediately summoned and informed that the physician approved of his going south, and that he must prepare for immediate departure, as the autumnal rains were about setting in, which would be most prejudi- cial to him. The guardian had fixed upon Cuba as the resort of the invalid, because he knew of a vessel which would sail within a few days for Havana, and hoped that the brief time which it would allow his nephew for preparation would leave him little or no opportunity for further interviews with his maternal relations. Sidney thanked his uncle for his kindness, and promised to be reqldy at the required time, however soon that might be,and then he hastened to see Addison, whom he found in his home of poverty, diligently laboring as a scrivener, while the beautiful Lizzie, at his side, was blinding her young eyes over her endless tasks of needle work. Household duties and the care of the invalid father em- ployed most of Mrs. Jay's time, but she still found many hours to assist at Lizzie's needle labors, and was thus em- ployed when their occupation was interrupted by their wel- come visitor. Their cordial greetings were scarcely interchanged, when Sidney hastened to inform them of his intended journey, and of his great regret at being obliged so soon to leave his new found friends.   86       THE MSER'S HEIR. "And, oh! Addison," he exclaimed, "if you could ac- company me, how happy I should be!" Addison looked at his blind father, and at his toiling mother and sister, with an expression that answered his cousin's remark, and seemed to reproach him with self- ishness, "Of course you cannot," he added, with a sigh; I did not expect it, but I could not avoid the thought. Oh, if there were but some way to accomplish this end; but this dreadful poverty meets us at every turn." "But surely you are not going alone?" said Mrs. Jay. "You are to have some companion or attendant?" "I wish you were right; but I must go alone. It is necessary to be economical, and I was indeed quite sur- prised that Uncle Ralph consented to my going at all." "It is necessary for you to be economical, Sidney, did you say?" asked the blind man, who, from his easy seat in the corner, had been an attentive listener to the con- versation. "Yes, Uncle Jay." "And do you speak in earnest?" "I assure you I feel very little like jesting to-day, uncle. I am indeed in very sad earnest." The captain sighed, being now painfully convinced that his nephew was really the young miser that he had been painted, who, in the midst of untold wealth, grudged the pittance necessary for his comfort and health. He did not pursue his inquiries, but after a few moments' silence Sidney mildly resumed. "And now allow me to inquire, uncle, why you ask these questions in so strange and earnest a way?" Thus adjured, Captain Jay felt no delicacy in replying more plainly. "Because, Sidney, it seems to me very improper, not to Ok,       i   I HEAL TH AND WEALTH.             87 say sinful, for a young man, situated as you are, to talk about poverty and wants. It shows a covetous disposition and ingratitude to the Great Giver." "I do not know that I understand you, uncle; I know I am sinful enough, but I really do not think I am very covetous. I did not mean to complain, but I see no harm in speaking of one's poverty." "Is it no harm for a rich man to call himself poor?- for a man whose means are more than sufficient for all his wants through life to talk of the necessity of being eco- nomical?" "Most certainly; but how does this apply to me? I am not rich-I have not the abundance you speak of-I am literally and really a poor man!" "Why, Sidney!" exclaimed Addison, who knew his cousin too well to doubt that he was speaking sincerely, "you really then believeH his You do not know that you are the owner of vast wealth, of which your guardian has the possession?-that you are not an ordinarily rich man, but a millionaire, with hundreds of tenants pouring their golden tribute into your treasury? The house in which your uncle resides, the magnificent block of which it is a part-the large hotel opposite--are all entirely your own, and form but a small part of your estate. Ijow have you been kept in ignorance of this?" "Are you sure that it is true?" asked young Werter, eagerly, and with unbounded amazement. "Nothing can be more certain-the whole city knows it -and I never dreamed that you were ignorant of it. Your father was a man of immense wealth, chiefly in real estate, whiph has been greatly increasing in value ever since his death."  Sidney remained for some moments speechless with emotion.   SbO      THE MTSER'S HEIR. "Come with me, Addison," he said, at length, hurriedly and excitedly-"I wish to talk with you a few moments apart." His wrongs, and the injustice of his uncle, were the themes which he did not wish openly to discuss. Addison, greatly indignant, earnestly advised that he should imme- diately denounce his guardian, and apply to the court which appointed him for his removal, and the appointment of a successor, but the young heir thought otherwise. "It might be difficult to prove," he said, "either that he has wronged me, or that he intended to do so-for the mere fact of keeping me in ignorance of my wealth has done me no harm. I have not been kindly treated, it is true, but my wants have all been supplied. What can we do then, or rather what can I do that I might not better leave undone? Litigation with a man in legal possession of my own property, and who could use that property freely to support his position, would be protracted and of uncertain issue, while, in my present feeble state, the agitation and excitement of such a contest, and the necessity of remaining in this severe climate to conduct it, might prove in the last degree detrimental." "What, then, do you propose?" "To-be quiet, and neither proclaim my- new knowledge to my uncle, nor my formerignorance to the world. If I should live to manhood, the brief interval that lies between me and that point will soon pass away, and then I shall have the unquestioned control of my property. Thence- forward, whether I live or die, you, dear Addison, shall be no longer poor. This golden mantle which seems to have dropped so suddenly and mysteriously on my shoulders, be assured, shall envelope you also in its folds-soon, perhaps, you alone."   HEALTH AND WEALTH.       89 "Say not so, dear cousin. Health and vigor shall yet be yours, in that gentle climate to which you go." "And to which I must not go alone. You may be right; but if you would inspire me with even the hope of recovery, you must help me to invent some way by which you can become my companion." "Heaven knows what pleasure this would give me, Sid- ney; but it cannot be. My destitute and infirm parents require my daily labor for their support." "But if some substitute could be found for this-if I could procure money both for them and for you?" "If they were comfortably provided for until my return, beyond any contingency, I should, of course, be most glad to go with you, as I am sure they would desire me to do. But it is idle to talk of this, when your guardian will prob- ably give you but a scant supply of means even for your own purposes." "He is to give me none, I believe, before my departure; but he will pay my passage money, and give me a bill of exchange on a mercantile house at Havana for what he thinks I need. If I want more, I am to write to him." "Is it possible that he treats you so like a child?" "And I thought him so liberal and kind in permitting me to go I But his machinations are now all plainly visi- ble. It is only to separate me from you that he has con- sented to my going South-and it is to avoid my taking you with me that he has thus restricted my means. Doubt- less it was for this reason, also, he sent me to live in the country almost immediately after my acquaintance with you began, for he knew that in your society I could not long remain in ignorance of my rights. What censure could be too severe for such conduct? But we must have patience; what we now want is money." 8 Lo         .   90        THE MSER'S HEIR. "Yes, Sidney, and we shall continue to want it. It idle to hope for anything fair or liberal from such a man. "I hope nothing from him; but, Addison, I have rea of such things in other countries as minor heirs of larg estates raising money, at highly usurious rates of interes by giving their bonds redeemable at manhood, and pledgin their honor and their oaths for security. Could not sue a thing be done here?" "I fear not. You can give no legal security." "I know it. Let the lender charge for the risk. W can convince him that I will keep my word sacred if I cai and that his only risk is on my life." "Such a thing is barely possible. I know a young lay yer whose business has led him much among the mone3 lenders, and who knows some of all grades, from the wel dressed dealer who discounts your trebly-guarantied not at thirty per cent., in his elegantly furnished office in Wa street, down to the sallow and bearded Jew, who hides hi soiled bags of gold in the darkest basements of Chathan If there is any chance of this kind, Mr. Perth can show l the place'and the man." "Let us go to him without the loss of an hour. I mu, sail in three days." They went at once, and having laid the facts and thei wishes before the attorney, anxiously awaited his opirnio "I am sorry to discourage you," he said; "but I thin the chance is really a very poor one. If it were merely case of minority, the funds might perhaps be raisec although at a great sacrifice; but Mr. Werter's illnes would increase the risk so materially, that he probabl could not obtain the money at all-certainly not on an but the most extortionate terms." "I will take it on any terms," replied Sidney. "Shoi me the man that will make an offer, however exorbitant.   I J        HEALTH AND WEALTH.        91 "There is but one among my acquaintance to whom it would be of the least use to apply-that is Hakes, the old clothes man; you know him, Jay." "Impossible-he is a beggar-" "He is a rich man-not professedly a money-lender, but well known as such to the very necessitous; for by others his mode of dealing would never be listened to. He has doubled several ventures lately, to my knowledge, and might possibly listen to you-" "Let us go to him at once," said Sidney, hastily.   CHAPTER XI. THE MONEY LENDER AND THE VOYAGE. HARES was found without difficulty, at his place of bu- siness, a Chatham street cellar, the entrance to which was hung with well-scoured suits of second-hand clothing, while the interior was similarly decked on all sides with huge piles of resuscitated garments. The old man, whose fea- tures and occupation proclaimed him a Jew, and whose speech told that he was a German, was sitting, spider-like, in the back part of his den, watching for prey, and he came eagerly forward at the first appearance of his visitors. "What will you have, shentlemans?' he said, quickly- but at the second glance he recognized the attorney, and saw that he had mistaken the character of his customers. "Ah, Meeshter Perth, Harm glad to see you," he said. "You don't want any coats, I believe?" "No," said the- young lawyer, laughing, "I want some lining for coat-pockets, of the same kind I had for Mr. Jones the other day, though not quite so high-priced." "Ah, Meeshter Perth, Meeshter Perth, you make hard bargain with me; I am afraid of you, Meeshter Perth." "None of that gammon, David; I happen to know that you have received your money back from Jones, and an equal sum for profit, as agreed." "Oh, yes, I got it!" replied the Jew, elevating his eye- brows, " but I scare very much first-I no sleep all day- all night-but I got it. Mr. Jones ish a ver goot man." "Well, I have a much better customer for you now.    THE MONEY LENDER AND THE VOYAGE.     93 This young gentleman wants a larger sum and he is a very rich man-" "Walk into my office, shentlemans," said the Jew, lead- ing the way into a small back room, dimly lighted by a single window, and redolent with the odor of musty clothes. "Sit down, shentlemans; I am a very poor man, but I have a leetle monish sometimes." Perth proceeded briefly and correctly to relate young Werter's situation and wants, and naming a thousand dol- lars as the loan required. \ "Ah, no, no, no--tish great risk," said the Jew, shak- ing his head violently. "He die-I loosh my monish; he live-become great man and forget old clo' man-den I loosh my monish; no-no-no." "You shall not lose it if he lives; my bond, at least, is binding, and I will guaranty that he keeps his word if he can." The usurer eyed closely Sidney's innocent face, for, sharper as he was, he knew the expression of an honest man, and he seemed to hesitate. "You will take ver much care of yourself," he said; "you will be ver rich man if you live." Sidney smiled, and said he was to sail in three days for Cuba, for the benefit of his health; "Ah, dat is goot for you. How much you give for tou- sand dollars?" "I am willing to pay liberally. What will you require? Please to name your best terms at once." "Ah, it would be worth ten per shent. De risk is very great." "That is moderate enough, Mr. Perth," said Sidney, aside to the attorney. "Wait a minute-I don't think you quite understand Mr. Hakes' ten per cent. How much do you say, David?" 8*   "       THE MSER'S HEIR. "Ten per shent is ver small-de risk is great-I gif him one tousand now-he pay me ten tousand when he ish a man." "Is that the best you can do?" "The ver best, Meeshter Perth-the risk is ver great." "You see it is of no use talking to a man with notions like these," said Perth, turning away. "Come, let us go, I hate no time to lose." "Stop, Mr. Perth, I accept these terms," said Sidney- "let the writings be drawn." "It is not possible you will make such a sacrifice, Mr. Werter?" "Why should I hesitate? My happiness depends upon it--perhaps my life; and, large as the sum is, if I am rightly informed, it is less than a quarter of the yearly in- come of my estate. I accept the terms." "It ish ver little," said the Jew,; who seemed to be re- gretting that he had not asked twenty instead of ten. After an ineffectual attempt to obtain some mitigation of the terms, Mr. Perth reluctantly closed with the Jew's offer, the writings were forthwith drawn and signed, and the money was counted down in gold, each piece seeming to cling to the usurer's fingers, as if by some magnetic at- traction. "Tish ver much monish, Mr, Verter," he said, as he pushed the glittering pile toward him--I shall be a beggar if I loosh it." "Not quite, David, with Col. R  's bonds, and Ma- dam --'s diamonds in your strong box there," replied the attorney. (Ah, Meeshter Perth, you are funny man," returned the Jew, with a pleased twinkle of his black eyes. "But you are -too sharp for me, Meeshter Perth. I make poor bargain with you alwaysh."   THE MONEY LENDER AND THE VOYAGE.      95 The borrowers departed, leaving the usurer chuckling over his bonds, but not more delighted than was Sidney at the treasure he bore away. He enjoined strict secresy upon the lawyer in relation to the transaction, compelled him to accept of a considerable fee, and gave him the pro- mise of a far more liberal reward, if it should ever be in his power to bestow it. As soon as he was alone with Addison he laid the hun- dred golden eagles before him. "These," he said, " are for you; use them as you choose; but fail not to be on board the ship on Saturday, equipped for your voyage. Possibly we may not meet again till then." "Not all this money-I cannot take it all." "Every dollar, and little enough it is for your wants. Half of it, at least, you will have to leave with your pa- rents for their support, and the remainder is certainly a small enough sum for yourself. I only fear it will prove inadequate." Sidney was unyielding, and his cousin reluctantly ac- ceded to hiis request. "But how am I to avoid the observation of your uncle, who will doubtless accompany you on shipboard, at the time of sailing? Discovery would be fatal to our project, while he has you so completely in his power." "Most assuredly it would-you must avoid him by all means; it certainly will not be difficult to keep out of his way, especially if you are on board before we arrive. I will leave it entirely to you." I think it can be managed." Sidney accompanied Addison home, where he found little difficulty in persuading Mr. and Mrs. Jay to sanction their arrangements, at which, indeed, they rejoiced for the young invalid's sake; for Sidney's own delight was so great, it   Ju       'Tia 1HSER S HEIR.    was impossible not to sympathize with it. Althougl grieved to part with their son, the bountiful provision whici had been so unexpectedly made for them in his absence left them no excuse for refusal, and with many tears their consent was given. Uncertain whether he would be able again to see his re lations before his departure, Sidney bade them an affec tionate farewell, and lingered for a few moments with visi ble agitation, as he held his beautiful and weeping cousir by the hand. His heart was not unsusceptible, but he hac never suffered himself to think of Lizzie with a lover's feel. ings, while his fell disease threatened to bring distress upon all to whom he was attached, and most misery to those who loved him most. "We have met but twice, dear cousin," he said, "since childhood-perhaps we shall never meet again. I need not ask you not to forget me, for I know your goodness, and I doubt not that your friends, like mine, are few. vThat I shall not forget you," he added, smiling, "your brother will be my surety, for he never ceases talking of you, and I do not wish that he ever should." Cautioning Addison to be discreet in his movements, and promising to call upon them again before sailing, if he could do so without danger, he then withdrew and hastened home, where his long absence had excited much uneasiness; but as he began his preparations for departure with great earnestness, he was not questioned in relation to his visit, Ralph being well satisfied to hear no complaint or accusa- tion. Sidney had not been mistaken in his fears that he should find no opportunity to repeat - his visit, for his time was continually employed in company with his guardian under one pretext or another, until the morning of the day of ailing. Then, after his trunks were packed and sent on    , Ad V xAU i. YV board, his uncle, with unprecedented attention, insisted on taking him to the vessel in his carriage, and Eloise and Ruth, wishing, as they said, to see the ship and the dear romantic-looking sailors, and the Spanish Dons, who would probably be passengers, were allowed to accompany them, much to Sidney's alarm, who knew that the chances of Ad- dison's discovery would be tenfold increased. There was no help for it, however; they all went, and the Misses Werter boarded the ship with the air of people who meant to know what was going on there, and in less than ten minutes they were in every part of the vessel. "There are no Dons here," said Eloise, with a disap- pointed air, after closely scrutinizing about a dozen undis- tinguished-looking people in the cabin and on the quarter- deck. "No, but I saw the handsomest sailor you ever set eyes upon," replied Ruth. " He has the most beautiful features and complexion, and a fine figure. He is quite young, too, and I do not believe he has ever been to sea before, poor fellow. What a pity it is to see such a man in a blue jacket and tarpaulin." "Where is he ?" asked Eloise. "Leaning against the capstan there--" "Capstan ? How do you know what a capstan is ?" "Oh, I asked him-sjust to see what kind of teeth he had, and they are beautiful; but he is not very polite, for he turned his head away as soon as he had answered." "Let us walk around that'way," said Eloise, "I can make him talk, I'll be bound ;" but the handsome sailor seemed to have his eye upon his admirers, for no sooner did he see them approaching the capstan, than he retreated to the forward part of the ship, and when followed there, he began, awkwardly enough, to climb the rigging of', the foremast, where, after ascending a short distance, he sat   98        THE MSER'S HiEIK. swinging like a treed squirrel, afraid to go higher, a equally afraid to descend. There was no excuse for hallooing to a man above the heads, and so the disappointed ladies gave up the chat and returned to the quarter-deck, not suspecting that th had been intentionally avoided. Sidney, meanwhile, was in great distress at the abser of his cousin, for the hour of sailing had arrived, and pi parations were making for immediate departure, and  guardian seemed determined to remain on board until t anchor was weighed and the sails were set. He did I doubt that Addison had been delayed, and that he was n on shore, waiting for Mr. Werter to leave the vessel, in der that he might safely venture aboard. Slipping from the side of his relations, he hurried belc explored every part of the cabin, knocked at the doors the few state-rooms without success, and then returned the deck in a still greater state of alarm, for as he ascend he heard the merry song of the sailors, which announc that the work of raising the anchor was already begi It seemed to him that his uncle never would go, and was in despair when he heard Eloise propose that th should go down the bay in the ship, and return in the pi boat; but at this moment he heard a few bars of a we known tune whistled in the rigging, and his heart leap with joy at the sound. He dared not look in the directi whence the cheering notes proceeded, but he felt certs that he could not be mistaken in the signal, and a few I nutes later, Eloise's proposition being voted down, his p secutors bade him farewell, and descended the ship's sid It was not until the small boat which bore them away v a long distance from the ship, that Addison descended frc the rigging and threw himself into the arms of his cous He had not had an opportunity to inform Sidney of his   X THE MONEY LENDER AND THE VOYAGE.       99 tended disguise, which he had adopted in preference to concealing himself in the ship, because the latter course might have excited suspicion and inquiry, and he had ex- pected to be able, without difficulty, to apprise Sidney of his presence. That the voyage of Sidney and Addison was a pleasant one, need scarcely be said. It was, indeed, amid the chills of November that they started, but as they proceeded south they seemed to be sailing back through the preceding autumnal months, towards the summer which had long been past, but which they soon overtook. Over gentle seas, be- neath sunny skies, and towards a genial clime they went, happy in each other's society; happy in the bright hopes and aspirations of youth, and in youth's ready forgetful- ness of all evils that are not present and apparent.   CHAPTER XII. THE RETURN AND THE WILL. WHEN a sad story is to be told, the fewer words in which it is couched the better for both narrator and listener. Sidney passed a pleasant winter and spring in the balmy land to which he had repaired, but although there was an alleviation of the worst symptoms of his complaint, his health could not be said materially to improve, nor to give the least promise of ultimate amendment. Decay slowly but surely proceeded with its work, at once beautifying and blighting the fair fabric of which it had taken posses- sion, as autumn destroys the forest leaves, yet gilds them ere they fall with hues that summer never knew. Yet Sidney was happy. He aid not cling eagerly to life, nor cheat himself with the flattering hopes which con- sumption ever whispers to those who are willing to be de- ceived. He knew his doom, and calmly awaited it. Calmly, did I say? Aye, strange as it may seem to those who have never accompanied a Christian invalid down to the gates of death, often with a positive rapture, such as the hope of health never brought to the heart of a sufferer. The heir of vast worldly estates, he saw them passing away from him unregretted, for he felt that he had an inher- itance on high, in comparison with which earth's con- gregated gold would be as valueless as its kindred dust. Yet he did not talk much of death, Unwilling to dis- tress his cousin, whose care of him was unremitting, and whop? affection for him was unlimited, he listened to his 100   *".. ..... vet. a d- , Jd J ljl, mjUl daily language of encouragement without seeming to dis- credit it, and concealed from him as far as he could what- ever tended to show the fallacy of his expectations. Addison wrote frequently home, always coloring his tidings with the roseate hue of hope, until the advancing spring forced from him the painful admission that Sidney was worse, nay was dangerously ill. Yet he did not propose to return home with him until June, if the Cuban climate continued salubrious, for he feared the sudden changes and coldness of even the early summer at the North, and when June arrived, he would have chosen to remain still longer, had not their dwindling purse given warning of the necessity of departure. If Sidney had believed that a longer sojourn at the South would increase his chances of recovery, or prolong his days, he would, from a sense of duty, have written to his guar- dian asking for a remittance, although he had little reason to anticipate a favorable response to such an application. He had believed it right to bring Addison with him, and to conceal from his uncle the fact that he did so, when he had reason to anticipate that his design would be frustrated if discovered; but candor had not permitted hiln to continue the concealment beyond his first letter home, which had been written soon after his arrival at Ilavana. In this communication he had frankly stated that his cousin had accompanied him, and that he had done so secretly, be- cause he feared opposition to his design; but Sidney expressed the hope that his uncle would see the propriety of his having a companion and assistant in his feeble state, and that he would not be offended at what he had done. The reply to this letter contained a severe reprimand, and little else, excepting a requirement, something like a com- mand, that Sidney should send, once a month, an account of his health, and that he should apprise his gu.*dian of 9   102       THE MSER'S HEIR. the time of his return. This order the invalid strictly com- plied with, although not one of his six monthly letters ever brought a response, and it was now with a heavy heart that he anticipated his return to a home which so ill deserved the name. They took leave of Cuba and of the- generous friends they had found there, about the period of the summer solstice, and embarked in a vessel bound for New York, where they arrived about the middle of July, with no amendment in the invalid's health. Before their arrival Addison had earnestly besought his cousin not to return to his guardian's house, but to accompany him to his own home, where he would receive from Mrs. Jay and her daughter all the attentions that a mother and sister could bestow. But Sidney, much as he longed to accept this in- vitation, could not consent thus to bring trouble and heavy expense upon a family so nearly destitute, and whom he might never have the ability to requite. Besides, he had a nervous dread of his uncle, the result of early education and long habit of mind, which in his present feeble state he could not overcome. He did not dare openly to oppose him-yet he faithfully promised Addison, that, if he were not kindly treated, and that if the visits of his maternal relations were not freely permitted to him at all times, he would quit his guardian's roof, and take up his abode with his beloved friends. With this understanding they parted, Addison having accompanied the invalid to the mansion of his guardian, and then hastened to his own home, where so different a welcome awaited him. He found his parents and sister as well as he had left them, and was relieved to learn that they had in no wise suffered by reason of his absence. Their supply of money was as yet unexhausted, for they had. used it sparingly, and Lizzie had not ceased to earn   THE RETURN AND THE WILL.      103 her accustomed pittance. But the young man lost no time in again seeking occupation for what leisure he might have, for he knew that soon all his time would be required in at; tendance upon Sidney. For a few months he visited him daily, always spending an hour or two with him, and often, when the weather was sufficiently fine, driving out with him, and stopping to make long calls at his own home, where the invalid could enjoy the society of his loved re- lations. But this was a luxury that could not long remain to poor Sidney, for the winter was drawing nigh. January came and went, and the sufferer's daily diminution of strength became greater, and the signs of his speedy departure were many. About the middle of February, when alone one evening with Addison, he called him more closely to him, asked him to make sure that the doors were closed, and spoke to him as follows- "You know that I have abandoned all hope and all desire of life, and therefore do not let it pain you, my dear cousin, when I speak plainly of my approaching end. It is near, very near-nothing can avert or long postpone it; and, for my own sake, I should rejoice, like the freed prisoner, if the great change could come to-day. But there is an important consideration connected with this affair for you and for your father's family. Addison, one month from to- day, if I should live to see that time, I shall be twenty-one years of age; on that day I shall have power to make a will and to dispose of my property. I do not think my uncle suspects that I have any such views, nor do I wish that he should, for he would prevent me, I believe, by force, if he could. He evidently considers himself already the owner of my estates, which the law will assuredly give to him, if I die without a will. But, Addison, as sure as I live to   104       THE 'MSER'S HEIR. see that day, and have power to wield a pen, so surely shall the bulk of my property be transferred to you. There are some other bequests teat I wish to make, which will dispose of a considerable sum, but the great mass of the estate is to be yours. Do you understand?" Addison had with difficulty repressed his sobs-he had not restrained his tears, and he now raised his head from his hands, and looked with streaing eyes into the face of his cousin. "Yes," he said, hoarsely, and with choked utterance, "I hear you, Sidney. Oh, would to God that this great wealth could be used to bring back life and health to you. How gladly would I see it lost in such a cause!" "I believe you, Addison-nay, I know that you speak the truth-you have been more than a brother to me, and I should not die happy did I not look forward to meeting you in the land of bliss. But do not speak of my recovery; it is useless now, and other thoughts claim our attention. Are you listening?" "I hear you, Sidney.' "Gold has been my curse-may it be a blessing to you It has entailed upon me wrongs and persecutions, a child- hood of suffering, a youth of ignorance, a manhood of dis- ease and death. In my leisure, lonely hours upon this bed, I have thought much of the past; I have recalled to mind many events, partially forgotten, connecting links that once seemed to have no relation, and withi these shreds of memory forming a picture of the past painful to contem- plate. Not painful, for my own sake, for my sufferings are nearly over, and I have but trod the path of affliction which my Heavenly Father. designed for me, and which has led me to Him; but oh, Addison, what memories will cluster around the death-bed of him who by nature, and by legal right, should have been the orphan's protector and   THE RETURN AND THE WILL.      105 support. I have no anger for him-I try not even to despise him, but only to pity-yet every consideration of justice would impel me to wrest from him the wealth which he so wrongfully holds, even if I could not confer it upon the deserving and the beloved. Now listen to me, Addi- son," he continued, drawing from beneath his pillow a paper which contained a few lines in pencil. "Time may be precious with us a month hence, and we ought to be I prepared for action. On this paper is briefly stated the disposition I wish made of my property. There is a large fortune for Lizzie-wealth for your father-freedom and a competence for dear old Sukey-a handsome remembrance for my playmate Carry Reed-five or six bequests to pub- lic charities-a considerable legacy to Miss Kepps- another to my dear friend, who little dreams of such a thing from me, the Reverend Mr.  , and all the untold bulk of the remainder to yourself. Let my will be drawn accordingly, and with the utmost secrecy, and on that first hour when I have the legal power to execute it, fail not to be present here, with counsel and with witnesses, to have it completed. Did I say the first hour? Nay, the first minute, although it be at midnight, and whatever obstacle may intervene. That paper once signed, I shall willingly lay down my pen' and my life, at the same instant, rejoicing IO that God has given me the power to be of some service to my fellow beings. Addison could not reply. Blinding tears gathered in his eyes and fell upon the paper, which trembled in his hand, and Sidney sought to relieve him by speaking further of details. "There will be no difficulty in making these prepara- tions with secrecy?" he asked. "I think not." I 9*   106       THE MSER'S HEIR. "Will not Mr. Perth be a suitable lawyer for our pur- pose?" "Perfectly-I had already thought of him He is com- petent-shrewd and trustworthy." " See that he is bountifully remembered if our plan suc- eeds-also you will not forget my old creditor, the Jew. Let a provision for him be inserted in the will." "It shall be all done as you wish." "Remember that you cannot be too secret in this affair -I do not think that my guardian fears any such design on-my part--nay, I doubt whether he even knows that I am so nearly of age. We must not awaken his suspicion." "I will have no confidants excepting Mr. Perth-not even my mother or sister shall know of your design." "That is best; go now, dear Addison; this long con- versation has fatigued me, and I must take care of my strength if I would see my purposes carried out." Addison kissed his cousin and withdrew, promising to call again on the morrow, at his usual hour. He hastened home, and as soon as his agitation had sufficiently sub- sided, he repaired to the office of the young lawyer, and after bespeaking his confidence, proceeded to lay before him the business on which he had called. "Will there be any difficulty in all this, Mr. Perth?" he asked, after relating the circumstances.' "Not the least, if your cousin lives" to sign the will," replied the attorney. "I don't know, but it may be so," answered Addison; "but it seems to me that immense property can never be got out of Ralph Werter's hands, although poor Sidney should sign a dozen wills. I have a nervous dread of that man." "But the great bulk of the property is not in his hands; it is chiefly real estate, the title of which is absolutely in M   1 THE RETURN AND THE WILL.     107 your cousin, and never can vest in his uncle, unless the present owner either conveys or wills it to him, or dies without a will. You are not afraid that Ralph will run away with the land, are you?"  "No, I do not think he is quite a magician," said Addi- son, smiling. !"If your cousin executes this will and dies, that moment this property is as irrevocably yours as if you had owned it a hundred years, and old Werter could never exercibe a moment's further control over it."  "I know this must be so, yet I am glad to hear you as- sert it-I do not think I am so solicitous about it for myself, as for my parents and sister, and for Sidney himself, who will be so gratified. You smile, Mr. Perth, but I am quite  in earnest. I doubtless shall learn to love wealth, if it is ever mine; but my present thoughts are not chiefly of myself." "Is there any serious doubt of your cousin living a month?" "Yes, there is great reason to fear he will not last so long, especially if he is not free from agitation. We must use the utmost secrecy in this affair, for if it should become known it would cause a commotion that might prove fatal to him. I shall depend upon you." " ou need not fear me-I shall leave nothing undone to carry out your wishes fully and entirely." Addison departed, full of reflection upon the momentous subject which he had been discussing. He went home, and when he entered the paternal door a% saw, as he daily saw, the evidences of abject poverty, almost of des-    titution, which surrounded him-when he saw the thin, pale cheeks of his sister, worn with late hours of toil-the anxious looking mother-the sightless father, feebly trying to do some handiwork to aid in the general support-he   could scarcely refrain from announcing the hope of relief so near and so abundant. Unfortunately, Sidney's first promise of enriching him, made before going to Cuba, had also been accompanied by a restriction from speaking on the subject, and it had always been a source of regret to the affectionate son that he could not impart these antici- pations to his unhappy parents. Yet Captain Jay had not overlooked the important fact that his nephew would have it in his power, if his life should be spared a little longer, to relieve their necessities, and if he had not spoken on the subject, iywas because he would not awaken hopes that might be so easily disappointed. But he knew Sidney's age, and as the time drew nigh which was to place such a vast power in the dying boy's hands, he awaited with increased interest the daily tidings of his condition. Addison had nothing new on this point to communicate. He brought to them  as usual some message of affection from the invalid, whom they were able to visit but seldom, and related many particulars of his conversation on all subjects but the forbidden one. But although he was not at liberty to impart his secret to his parents or sister, there was one friend to whom the interdiction did not apply. He had talked so much and so often to Sidney of his young friend Hazleton, and had read to him so many of Edward's speaking letters, which bore on every page the im'press of his frank, earnest and gener- ous nature, that Sidney had long been accustomed to look upon him as an acquaintance and friend of his own. He had himself suggested what was but the echo of Addison's thoughts, that if he should become rich, he would be able to advance the fortunes of one whom, he said, he hoped would fill his own place in the hearts and affections of his relations; and when he knew that Addison was inditing a letter to his friend, he even begged him to explain to him   fully his prospects, although yet so uncertain, and to hold out to him this golden hope. All this Addison failed not to do, with much particular- ity of detail, for the prospect of conferring so much hap- piness on Edward and his mother, like the anticipation of benefiting his own relations, was a temporary relief to the gloom of his heart. Two weeks passed away, and Sidney, daily failing, still lived. Yet so strictly had his important secret been guarded, that his uncle remained unsuspicious of it, al- though constantly in fear that something would occur to suggest the subject to his nephew's thoughts. He dreaded the daily visits of young Jay, which he still dared not inter- dict, lest so unreasonable a step should provoke inquiry, and perhaps produce the very result he was so anxious to avoid. But he flattered himself that the cousins were both un- conscious of the momentous change which one short week would work in the legal position of Sidney, unless a still greater change was first wrought by death. If they were aware that he would so soon be of age, they either remem- bered it not, or they supposed that some tedious and dif- ficult legal process was still necessary to invest him with his rights, and to enable him to transfer them to others. Always accustomed to the impotency of wardship, Sid- ney would not easily believe himself possessed of his new powers, if, as was most improbable, the near view of death should allow him to reflect at all upon the subject. Such were some of the hopes with which Ralph fortified himself, yet his chief dependence was upon the termination of his nephew's days before the important hour which would give to his pen more than the fabled power of the magician's wand. To this hope he had long been accustomed, to this an-   C ...i . ' *JA L AI X H  .-J  ticipation he pertinaciously clung. Yet every day was now heaping added anxiety upon his head, and when Sid- ney, within a week of his majority, still lived, Ralph's fears became goads of hourly torture, which allowed him no interval of rest by day or night. Some one, he felt sure, would think of the fatal subject, if Sidney or his cousin did not; there would be some offi- cious medler to suggest it to them, and dissolve by a word the golden visions of long years, in the very hour in which they were turning to realities. Sidney was visited by the family physician of his uncle, who had been called to attend him on his return from the south, when there was supposed to be no probability of his surviving the autumn; and although Ralph would after- wards gladly have consigned him to less careful hands, there was no plausible pretext for a change, and with the cowardice of guilt he feared and shunned everything that might awaken suspicion against him. He had felt so certain of success in his schemes without positive crime, that he had resolved not only to avoid it, but to maintain a show of kindness- and generosity to his ward; but he now regret- ted his timidity, and as he became more desperate, dark and tumultuous thoughts took possession of his mind. Addison meanwhile continued to spend the greater part of his time, both by day and night, with his cousin, who, on the third day preceding that which would complete his twenty-first year, was pronounced by his medical attendant to be within a few hours of his end. In the great grief which this intelligence gave the affectionate and unselfish heart of Addison, he entirely lost sight of the subject of his own interest, until Sidney, revived from a temporary ;exhaustion, himself reminded him of it. "Do not weep for me, tny dear cousin," he said; "but   if you love me, remember yourself and your family. Is the will ready?" Addison bowed, but could not speak. "If I remember rightly about such things," continued the invalid, faintly, "it is necessary that I should read it, orthave it read to me." His cousin again replied with a gesture. ' "This should be done as soon as possible--to-night or to-morrow-that no time may be lost on the next day. Will you see to it without delay?" Addison promised compliance, and when he withdrew, it :! was to seek Mr.,Perth and make known Sidney's wishes, i although with little expectation that they would ever be carried out. "He is quite right," replied the attorney, " and he evi- dently thinks much upon the subject. The crisis is so very near, that while there might be time to execute the will on his birth-day, there might not be time to read it to him, which is essential to its validity." "On what hour of the day can the will be executed?" "The first. When the clock strikes the hour of mid- night, his birth-day is ushered in, and at that moment he is of age. The law does not regard the fractions of days." "Are you quite sure of this?" "Quite." "And when do you propose to read the will to him?" "To-night. I will come late, when the family are re- tired, and you must see to my admission." "I fear it will be of no avail. Dr. Lee thinks he has but a few remaining hours, and there are yet two whole days required for our purpose." "Physicians may be mistaken, like other people; let us hope that Dr. Lee is wrong. I have heard of dying people being apparently sustained for many hours by the mere L  JL4       j " z iuoruo D ai nj. hope of seeing a coming friend who was travelling fast from a great distance to see them. Perhaps this great hope, which young Werter has so deeply at heart, may be the means of keeping him alive. We all know what influence resolution has upon our strength." "It may be so." "But do you hasten to return -to him, and be careful that he does not know the physician's opinion. Cheer him all that you can, and depend upon my calling at twelve o'clock." Mr. Perth spoke with decision and earnestness, and Ad- dison felt relieved that he was disposed to take the direc- tion of the details of the melancholy business. His own heart was so depressed and sad, that he could not bring himself to realize the importance of passing events to his worldly interests, and it seemed to him like a crime to be calculating upon accession to the wealth of his dying friend.- There was not a moment of all these painful, pro- tracted-weeks when he would not with joy, nay with ecstacy, have sacrificed all his pecuniary expectations to restore Sidney to health; and the only relieving anticipation that he found in hiT misery was that of seeing his dear parents and sister, raised from their destitute state to comfort and ease. He hastened back to the bedside of his friend, resolved to quit it no more until all was over. The patient remained composed and quiet through the remainder of the day, conversing but little, and only on themes of highest import, and at night he was left to the care of Addison and the faithful Sukey, ho was unwearying in her attendance upon him. Ralph retired to his feverish and fitful rest with a slightly increased sense of security, yet with many boding fears, and while he slept, counsel and witnesses were surrounding I'1I   the bedside of his nephew, reading with low and solemn voice, his last Will and Testament, receiving his assevera- tions that he understood and approved it all, and that all was as he had dictated. Cautiously, slowly, completely, all was done but the simple act of affixing the testator's signature, which yet required an interval of twenty-four hours to give it validity. 1 ' ' 110 f!   CHAPTER XIII. THE MURDER OF SIDNEY. MR. BOGGS was seated in his office on the ensuing morn- ing, lamenting the dearth of business, and the increase of legal practitioners, when he received an unexpected call from a busy, prattling little constable, who had frequently thrown business in his way, and who received in turn the lawyer's influence in retaining him in his official position. "Ralph Werter is one of your men, isn't he?" said the visiter.  "Yes, he has been my client." "And a pretty good one he must be-he is as rich as a Jew." "Yes-and as close-but what of him? Speak, what have you to say?" "Perth was seen to come out of his house late last night with one of his clerks." "Well?" "Well, I have been thinking what it could all mean-I don't know, of course, but there is something secret going on. At any rate, I thought, if Mr. Perth was trying to get away one of your clients, it was best for you to know it, and be on your guard." The spy knew nothing of the state of affairs existing between Ralph and his nephew, and had no remote suspi- cion of the real bearings of his tidings. Not so with Boggs, whose eyes kindled with a strange light for a mo- (114)   ment, as he listened to his companion's words, and then as suddenly changed their expression. "Nonsense, Harvey," he said; "it has been only a friendly visit to the poor boy, who is lying very ill-at any rate, if Werter prefers Perth to me, let him have him. He is a miserly old fellow at the best." But no sooner had the constable withdrawn, a little dashed by the reception which his intelligence had met with, than the lawyer closed the book of reports, which for appearance sake had been lying open before him, and, taking his hat, started out. He knew enough of the posi- tion of Werter's affairs to have his suspicions fully excited by such a piece of intelligence as he had just received, for Mr. Boggs, although not a man of talents, usually had his few wits about him, and was quick at tracing the connec- tions and bearings of incidents upon each other. That Hugh Werter's great estate had descended to an only son, and that Ralph Werter would be the legal heir of the boy, if the latter died before he attained the age of manhood, he had long known; but he did not know Sidney's age, nor the extremity of his illness, nor had he any reason to sup- pose that there was any antagonism between the uncle and nephew. But he knew Perth to be a shrewd lawyer, whose actions usually had some meaning, and his visit to the in- valid, accompanied by one of his students, at once naturally suggested to Boggs the idea of a will. This of itself would not have excited his attention, any further than to awaken his ire that he himself had not been called upon to write the document, for he had no reason to suppose but that the lad would bequeath his property chiefly to his uncle; but the fact that the legal-visit was at a late hour of the night suggested the idea of secrecy and mystery. Some- thing might be occurring unknown to Ralph-something which it would be of great service for him to know. The   J LJU       msu  ZC   IJblH. attorney resolved, at least, to sound his client on the sub- ject. He called forthwith to see him, under some pretext of inquiry about rents, for it was easy to feign business with so extensive a landholder, and he was shown into the business room or office of the guardian, who was pacing the floor with a look of uneasiness. Ralph had been ac- customed to look to the lawyer for assistance, and at the first sight of him the idea of relief in some way from his present difficulties suggested itself to him; but he imme- diately dismissed the thought, for his trouble did not admit even of a confidant. He, however, received the lawyer in a friendly manner, listened, though impatiently, to his in- quiries, answered them hastily, and then waited to see him withdraw. But Boggs manifested no such design. "How is rour nephew?" he asked, after a pause. "Breathing his last," said Ralph; "the poor boy is not expected to live from one hour to the next." "Ah, is it possible?-in 'articulo mortis'-well, we must all come to it," answered the lawyer, in a solemn voice, but with a look of cold calculation in his eye, for he was thinking how far this added confirmation to his views. "He is-not of age, I believe." Werter started as if he had received an electric shock, but he partly recovered himself before he spoke. "No-he is not." "Is Mr. Perth a relative or particular friend of your nephew?" "No--I do not think Sidney knows him. Why do you ask?" "Does not Mr. Perth visit him?" "Certainly not." "Well, I had a reason, but it is of no consequence- particularly if your nephew is not of age." "Boggs," exclaimed the old man, with much agitation,    "you know something which you have come here expressly to tell me. Let me hear it, and instantly." "It is really of not the slightest importance, if, as I said-" "If me no ifs-tell me what you know, on pain of my displeasure, or in hope of my reward, if you will. You shall not be disappointed. Suppose my nephew is of age -suppose that he becomes so to-morrow," said Ralph, desperately, "what then?" -  "Then it was probably not for nothing that Counsellor Perth and one of his students were with him late last I night, and were seen to leave your house long past mid- U night." "What do you say, Boggs?" exclaimed the old man, whiter than the wall against which he leaned. "Do you mean to tell me this is truth?" C "Yes." "But it cannot have been done-I cannot be mistaken in the day-here it is," he continued, taking down a very old family Bible, which had belonged to the mother of i: Sidney, and the leaves of which shook and rattled so under his trembling hands, that he could with difficulty find the  place he sought-" there it is-the 16th of March! They have made a mistake, Boggs-it won't do them any good, hey?" Eagerness is a faint word to express the manner in which this was said and done-it was fierceness, almost madness of tone and action-appalling the attorney with the mag- nitude of the mine which he had accidentally sprung. "It can't do them any good, can it?" repeated Werter, grasping the attorney by the shoulder and looking fiercely into his eyes. "If you mean that a will executed by a minor can have no efficacy," replied the lawyer, with judicial deliberation, 10*   "8       THE MSER'S HEIR. ' you are certainly right-nothing can be more clear. But they may be only making preparations-the lawyer may have been receiving his instructions how to write it." "That is it-that is it." "When did you say Sidney will be of age?" "To-morrow. Oh, not till to-morrow, and it is almost impossible he should live through another day." "Another day'? But this is not necessary for their purpose, if to-morrow is his birth-day." "'You do not mean to say he can do any binding, legal act until the day is finished,-or at least until the hour which completes his twenty-first year?" "You are mistaken here, my dear sir. There is an old legal adge, that the law does not regard the fractions of a day. Your nephew will be of age at twelve o'clock to-night." "Good Heavens! Is this so, Mr. Boggs?-in less than twelve hours from this moment!-and everything is ready in advance! They have been plotting secretly against me; but I will disappoint them. My doors shall be closed against them. Not a soul shall enter-and that young traitor Jay shall quit my house directly." "Do no such thing--you will injure yourself. Besides, Perth cannot be baffled in this way. He would have Sid- ney removed at midnight, the very moment that your guar- dianship, and consequently your control over him ceases. Something else--" A strange expression passed over Ralph's face-it was momentary-it was like nothing the attorney had ever seen or dreamed of before in the human countenance. Boggs shuddered. When Werter next spoke, it was with a change of tone, and with something like calmness. "We may be mistaken, after all," he said; "I know no   THE MURDER OF SIDNEY.       119 reason why Sidney should seek to divert the estate from the course which the lay wisely points out for it, nor do I believe he will. Besides, it is most probable he will not live the day out; but if it proves otherwise-so it must be I must submit to fate." This sudden resignation of a man so recently maddened with fear, excited the suspicions of the shrewd lawyer, X which were not lessened when the old man suddenly broke up the interview, by pleading a business en- ; gagement. X  So sooner had the visiter gone than Werter's carriage J  was ordered, and before it was ready, his bell was rung three times, to inquire why it was so long delayed. Has- tily, almost frantically, he paced his room, and those who saw him pass to his carriage thought some sudden illness had seized him, so blanched, were his features, so wild the expression of his eye. "To Grand street-drive fast," he said, in a husky voice, to the coachman, as the steps were put up and the door closed, and at the next instant the vehicle was rapidly rattling in the direction named; Grand street was gained, the coach was dismissed, and Werter pursued his way on foot. Far, much farther, than he had ridden, although that was a long way, he went down Grand street to Cherry, down Cherry to its most obscure quarter, and paused before a ; door where a battered tin sign gave notice that a physician's and surgeon's office was within. Ralph entered, passed up a flight of stairs, and knocking at a door on the first landing, was bid in a voice of no polite intonation to enter. lIe obeyed, and in the dingy room, seated before a very dusty table, which was dotted with half-filled vials and gallipots, he saw the man he sought, and whom he had sought once before, Dr. Brail. The physician, who rose   120       THE MSER'S HEIR. hastily and greeted his visiter with cordiality, was a man of middle age, shabbily dressed, but with an intelligent aspect and gentlemanly manners. He handed Ralph the rickety chair in which he had been seated, took another still worse for himself, closed a large book in which he had been reading, and in which he left a spatula to mark his place, and then waited anxiously to hear the object of his visiter's call, for that it was no common one he knew very well. "This is not the style of office you used to have in Broadway, Brail," said Ralph, with the air of an old ac- quaintance. The physician winced. "No, not quite," he said. "And yet it seems to me there would be no difficulty in a man of your talents establishing yourself there again. Those old affairs are forgotten now, or rather they were never known by one in ten of the present community." The slightest perceptible blush tinged the Doctor's cheeks, as he replied, excitedly- "Of course, they would be no impediment, not the least-but poverty is the trouble now-destitution, pauper- ism, almost. You know it very well, Werter; but if I could once more get a start, I should be all that I ever was, and more, for I have the benefit of more experience and sounder judgment." "Certainly, and we shall see you driving your carriage again, I do not doubt. I should advise you to take an office in a fashionable quarter at once." "You mock me, unless you mean to aid me. Try me, Mr. Dives," continued Brail, smiling, but speaking earn- estly; " give me a furnished office, and trust me a year for the rent, and lend me money enough to buy a few books, and a suit of clothes, and see if I do not more than justify    f          ITHE MURDER OF SIDNEY.      121 your predictions. Come, Werter, you are well able to do this, and with very little risk." "I will." "Will you?" said Brail, grasping his hand and looking eagerly in his eyes, to see if he was in earnest. "I will. I will do this for you, and much more-if-" "Oh," groaned Brail, "I should have been a rich man years agone, but for that short word." "You mistake--I will do all this for you to-morrow- if I am able, if I have offices to rent, and money to lend." "Then I am safe, for everybody knows you are-or are to be-one of the richest men in all this great city, and certainly no one rents more stores or offices than you." "To-day!" said Ralph, in an emphatic whisper, and drawing his chair closer to the physician, but to-morrow it may be otherwise." "What do you mean? Surely your nephew-" "My nephew, who you so confidently asserted could not live a year, has lived sixteen long months-is alive now, and this night he will be of age." Werter rose and examined the doors carefully, to see that all were closed, and then returning, drew his chair still closer to his companion's, and continued, still in a half whisper- "This is not the worst, Brail; I have this day learned that he has been long secretly plotting with some vagabond relations of his mother-a family of almost paupers-to defraud me out of the whole property, and to will it to them." "Is it possible?" "It is too true! The will is already drawn, and ready to be executed. I doubt not he intends to sign it this very night, and so sly and still has the little hypocritical fellow been about it, too, that I supposed he never dreamed of   122       THE MSER S HEIR. such a thing. Only to think of such scheming and decep- tion by a man on his death-bed." "This is certainly alarming. How near does he seem to be to his end." "Within a few hours; but he has lain just so exactly two whole days. Day before yesterday, Dr. Lee said he could live but a few hours-but he still lingers on. I be- lieve he is trying his best to hold out for this very pur- pose." "Does he suffer much?" "A good deal--yes, a good deal." Werter again rose and examined the door, and this time he took the precaution to lock it before he returned to his seat. "He suffers a great deal," he repeated, emphatically, looking with a strange expression into Brail's eyes, and seeming to try to find or create a reflection of his own thoughts in the physician's mind. "Yes," replied Brail. "And I have been thinking, Brail-I have been think- ing-that-that-Brail, can I trust you implicitly?" "Yes, Werter," said the Doctor, laughing, " and I don't think you have anything very dreadful to say, after- all. You are frightened at shadows. Speak out." Ralph's voice sunk to a low whisper as he continued. "I said that he suffered a great deal. It would be a mercy to--to-Brail, you understand me. Such things have been done before now, entirely out of compassion to dying men, when all hope was past, when nothing but suf- fering remained--you understand?" The Doctor again smiled calmly. No look of horror or repugnance was visible on his countenance. He was one of that class of men who can "' smile, and smile, and be a villain."   THE MURDER OF SIDNEY.       123 "Yes," he said, "I understand--I understood you some time ago, and, as I said, you are frightened at shadows. You wish to shorten your nephew's misery a few hours, and save him from doing an act of injustice on his death- bed; that is all, I believe." "Yes, that is it, that is it," replied Ralph, eagerly, "speak a little lower." "Well, there is nothing very dreadful in all that--you can easily do it.!" "You, you mean." "No, I mean you--with my advice and direction. My presence in his room at such a crisis might excite suspicion." Brail was shrewd enough not to put himself in Werter's power. He preferred exactly the reverse of this position. "Very true," replied the old man, gravely. "But what can I do?-what do you advise?" "Nothing-I advise nothing.  Mind, now, I know no- thing about your nephew; I don't know whether he is dead or alive--I suppose he is dead, long ago, judging from the condition in which I last saw him." All this was said with a broad smile. "But," he continued, "L I am going to sell you a little medicine, and tell you its properties--that is all I am going to do." Ralph shuddered. Brail rose, went to a chest of drawers, took out a large phial and a very small one, and filling the latter out of the contents of the other, with a limpid, colorless liquid, re- turned to his companion. Werter drew back. "Is it p--poi-" "No--it is not poison, at least it is not called so. Taste of it, it will not hurt you." Ralph hesitated, and the physician, still smiling, un- corked the phial and put it to his lips. "A dozen drops   124   -    THE MSER'S HEIR. of this," he continued, "would not hurt you or I. We should feel invigorated by taking it, and new strength would fill our whole system for a while, to be followed by extreme lassitude. "Yes." "But I would advise you not to give half that quantity to any one who was very weak and low-for although it would certainly strengthen the patient very much, the re- action would be very sudden, and most certainly fatal." Brail smiled throughout this speech. "You are certain of this?" "I am quite certain." "You were mistaken once." "I am not mistaken now." "And it is not poison?" "It is not poison." Werter wrapped the phial in a piece of paper, and placed it in his vest pocket. "There is one thing more," he said. "You must come to my house this evening, after dark-disguised, if you choose-but you must come. You will be shown into my room. You will be seen by no one but me. You will not refuse me this?" "I will come." And so they parted. Ralph went home, still hoping to hear that his fearful design was anticipated by natural causes, but still doomed to be disappointed. "He is weaker," said Hester, who knew nothing of the exciting information which her husband had received from Boggs ; "but he may live through the night." "What does he take?" "Nothing but a mixture to allay his cough."   THE MURDER OF SIDNEY.       125 "The same that stood in a tumbler at his bedside this morning?" "Yes." "He takes about a table-spoonful at a time?" "Yes." "Does he take-it frequently?" "Yes-why do you ask these questions so earnestly?" said Hester, with surprise. "Earnestly?  Did I?" said Ralj, coloring. "I did not know it-it certainly is not importaht." His face was haggard -as he turned from his wife, his cold, gray eye wore its most stony expression, and his white lips were closely compressed. He went into the room of the patient, who was alone with young Jay, and was asleep. The room was darkened, and Addison sat near the head of the bed reading, but with his face toward his cousin, toward whom his eye momentarily wandered from his book, to catch the first sign of returning wakefulness. The watcher barely glanced at Werter as he entered the room, made a sign for silence, and resumed his book. The old man hesitated a moment at the door, and then advanced softly, until he stood nearly behind Addison, and facing his sleeping nephew. The sight of the former brought the fire of a momentary rage in his eye, which quickly paled, however, before the new master-emotion of his heart. At his side, at Addison's side, within reach of both, stood a small table, containing a tumbler about a third full of a nearly colorless liquid, across which lay a silver table- spoon. With his eye upon Sidney, yet watching for the least indication of a movement in Addison, for both were in his direct line of vision, Werter drew from his vest pocket the small phial, from which he had already taken the pre- caution to remove the wrapper, and uncorked it. Slight "   136       THE I SER'IS HEIR. as was tihe sound made by his movement in doing this, it attracted Jay's attention, who partly turned round and saw Ralph, motionless, gazing with seemingly fixed attention at his nephew.  He resumed his book with closer attention, seeming to feel partly relieved of his watch by the presence of Ralph, who, without a moment's further hesitation or faltering, extended the fatal phial over the tumbler, and mingled its contents with the medicinal draught  Quickly and silently the direfuldeed was done, and, while the pa- tient still slept the sleep of innocence and virtue-while his friend still pored over the page of truth-the old man went out from the darkened room into the broad sunlight, despite all his fortifying arguments to the contrary, a self- convicted murderer. i "   CHAPTER XIV. THE PURSUIT. WHEN Mr. Boggs went from the house of Werter, it was in no amiable frame of mind, and with no slight amount of ire toward his former client, who had so unceremoniously broken off the interview, with scarcely an acknowledgment for the important intelligence brought to him by the attor- ney. Besides this, there was something, as has been said, in the old man's sudden transition from the wildest excite- ment to a state of calmness and professed resignation- something in that dreadful though momentary expression of face which aroused the lawyer's suspicions. He could not readily believe in the horrible idea which was suggested to his mind, yet he could not direst himself of it. He was not incapable of doing something in the cause of humanity, and, besides this, he knew there was uncertainty where this great wealth was going to alight, and whether Perth's party might not prove the most able, and more willing than Ralph had shown himself to be, to reward him for any ser- vices he might render them. But what could he do? He did not like to communicate suspicions which might have no foundation, and the explanation of which might incul- pate himself as a spy, and a meddler in his neighbor's af- fairs. While he hesitated and meditated, he had stopped at a little distance from Werter's house, on the opposite side of the street, whence he soon saw the rich man's car- riage emerge from the gateway, and pause before the front door of the house. The hrried and nervous manner in (127J   128       THE MSER'S HEIR. which the old man came out and entered the vehicle were not lost upon one so accustomed to close observation as Boggs, who became more than ever assured that there was mischief on foot. Before he had time to reflect, the car- riage dashed past him-he caught sight of the livid face of Ralph, and with intuitive impulse he rushed forward in pur- suit. He knew that there was a hackney-coach stand a few blocks distant, and he cared not for the observation he excited as he fairly leaped rather than ran towards it. A dozen doors flew open as he approached, and jumping into the first, he said to the driver, pointing to the flying coach -- "Follow the gray horses wherever they go-keep near, but do not pass them, and stop when they stop. Do you understand?" "Yes--a runaway match, I guess-we'll catch them." Boggs did not reply, and the driver, entering into the spirit of the chase, jumped upon the box and applied the lash to his drowsy steeds. There was no difficulty in* at taining and maintaining a sufficient proximity to Werter', carriage for all the purposes of Boggs, and when the for mer alighted at the corner of Grand street, the attorney followed his example at a safe distance. and, discharging the hackman, continued the pursuit on foot. Slower o faster, as the old man went, but always on the opposit side of the street, and about a dozen yards behind him, al ways stopping when Ralph stopped, and looking moments rily into the shop windows until he passed on. Thus Bogg followed cautiously, shrewdly, and with a resolute determ nation not to be baulked of his design. The farther Wei ter went, the more certain was the attorney that he wo upon some evil' errand; and when, at length, after his Ion and circuitous walk, he turned into a door-way, Boggs in mediately crossed the street to read the adjacent sign   THE PURSUIT.        129 There were but two, one of which immediately caught his eye, and flashed fourfold conviction on his mind--it was that of Dr. Brail. He knew the name; for, although ob- scure then, it had been notorious in the legal records of the city, and he felt almost as well assured of the nature of Werter's errand as if he had passed with him into the office of the professional villain, and had heard the fiendish conspiracy that was plotting there. Yet it was not easy to resolve what to do. He wished to attain more certainty, and he would not have hesitated to avail himself of any place or position for espionage and eaves-dropping-but there was none to be found which would not expose him to detection. He accordingly recrossed the street, and with- drew into an opposite door-way, where he could at least watch the return of Ralph, and see if the physician accom- panied him, which circumstance, if it occurred, would afford additional proof of intended crime. He had long to wait, so very long, that he began to fear Ralph had gone out some other way, when at length he made his appearance alone, with an air of increased agitation, and started with rapid steps on his return. Boggs took another course homeward, meditating with much irresolution on his proper course of conduct. He dreaded the rich man's wrath and persecution-he feared to strike an ineffectual blow, which would be sure to recoil heavily upon himself, and so great was this apprehension that it nearly outweighed his hopes of gain by befriending the clients of Mr. Perth, which hope had been his principal motive of action. The fate of the invalid, whose hours were numbered, and could be but few in any event, was to him a matter of se- condary consideration, although he would gladly, for the sufferer's sake, have prevented the impending tragedy, After much irresolution, and a dangerous loss of time, he concluded, like most shuffling men, to adopt a middle "*   loU       THE MSER'S HEIR. course, which he thought might effect all he desired, or if it failed, might at least shield him from danger. He would call at once on Perth, and, without committing himself, would give him warning by hints and inuendoes, sufficient to enable him to save Sidney, and to insure the success of his own plans. But here again time was lost. The young attorney was not to be found at once, and Boggs had half an hour to wait for him at his offiee, while a clerk sought for him elsewhere and brought him home. "Let me see you alone, Mr. Perth, immediately, on bu- siness of great importance," he said, when his legal brother entered his office. The clerks withdrew, and Mr. Perth waited with surprise for a communication so singularly he- ralded, from a man whose professional walk was entirely different from his own, and with whom he was scarcely ac- quainted. "What I have to say must be in the strictest confidence. "Will you receive it as such?" continued the visitor. "Undoubtedly. But please to be brief and explicit, for time is unusually precious with me to-day." "It is more precious with your dying client-" Perth started, and looked alarmed. "Do not fear me-there are others to be feared and watched." "Speak quicker-plainer-for the love of Heaven." "Everything is known or suspected in relation to young Werter's will, and it is to be defeated at every hazard. Fly to your client, remain at his bedside-see that he drinks nothing-tastes nothing-that comes through sus- pected hands." "What do you say, Boggs?  What warrant have you for these dreadful hints, and to whom do they point?" ex- claimed the young man, with great amazement. "I cannot answer these questions, nor is there time for   THE PURSUIT.        131 you to listen. I tell you that this very moment your cli- ent's life is in jeopardy-perhaps it is already too late to save him. "I will go this instant," exclaimed Perth, unlocking, with trembling hand, a private drawer, and taking from it a roll of papers, which he deposited in his pocket. "I do not know what cause you may have for these hor- rid suspicions, but our design is known, and the worst is to be feared. Will you go with me?" "By no means, nor must my name be mentioned."  "I forgot. I will keep your secret. Keep mine."  So saying, Perth hastened into the street, called a hack, and drove rapidly towards Werter's house. Reflection brought increased alarm to his mind. It is difficult for a virtuous man, unaccustomed to scenes of violence and wrong, to realize the existence of great crime in his own neighborhood, and among the peaceful walks of his own daily life. He thinks of such scenes only as occurring far away in some obscure place, and of the actors in them, not as men bearing the common semblance of humanity, butas half-deformed monsters, hideous and foul. Thus Perth had never been awake to the real danger which impended over Sidney, and even when the alarm was first sounded in his ear, the thought that Addison was per- petually at his friend's bedside, seemed a sufficient safe- guard for the dying boy. But now he feared the worst, and he remembered that, like himself, young Jay would be entirely unsuspicious of danger in the shape which now threatened. Impatiently, almost insanely, he urged his driver forward, for everything seemed to depend on gain- ing a few moments of time. As he drew near the house, he leaned from the carriage window and gazed earnestly towards it. Ah! how his heart failed him, as he saw that there was an unusual bustle about the premises. Neigh-   132       THIE MSER'S HEIR. bors were passing in-the family physician was going out --domestics were conversing solemnly together in the court -everything told him that he was too late. He leaped from the carriage ere it stopped, but he stood paralyzed where he alighted, for he saw Addison approach the door with red eyes and with despairing countenance. "Is he worse?" faltered Perth' as his friend came near. "He is well," answered Addison, solemnly. "What do you mean?" "He died half an hour ago." Long and constantly as Sidney's death had been ex- pected, the shock which it gave Addison, the violent grief it occasioned him, were too great to admit of his at once realizing any secondary misfortune. Mr. Perth did not disturb his emotions by allusions eitherto his lost estates, or to the still more agitating subject of his suspicions. He passed into the house and gathered from others the parti- culars of the solemn event, which all were discussing, and which were not of an unusual character. The patient had awakened from a long sleep,'and seemed greatly refreshed and unusually strong. He had conversed freely and dis tinctly, asked to be allowed to sit up, and said that he ever felt as though he could walk. This unusual strength faile( as suddenly as it had come on-he went into a syncope and in a quarter of an hour ceased to breathe. Dr. Lee says it is quite common for people who hav been long ill to die in this way," said Ralph, with an anx ious look at the attorney. "Doubtless it is," answered Perth, making the reply a excuse for gazing into the eyes of Werter, and steadily p( rusing their expression, until the guilty man turned su 'denly away, and went out of the room. "Did he take anything after waking?" asked the lawy, of old Sukey, who stood weeping by.   I            .THE PURSUL         133 "Nothing, unless it was a spoonful out of that tumbler, "which he took every hour," she said, pointing to the stand. They turned towards the table, but the tumbler was gone. Perth reflected a moment, and resolved to pursue the inquiry no further at that moment. His own ends were irretrievably defeated, and even if he had it in his power to convict Werter of the crime of which he suspected him, it could in no wise benefit Addison or his friends. By an inexorable fiat, the law had transferred Sidney's estates to his uncle, and even if that uncle were to perish on the scaffold, the property would remain in his family. Besides, by all appearances, Sidney had died a natural death, and if there had been guilt, the evidence of it had been carefully removed. Perth even doubted whe- ther Werter had consummated his crime, whether he had not been anticipated by natural causes. It was, at all events, no light matter to set on foot inquiries and investi- gations involving so grave a charge, and he resolved to do nothing until he had conferred with his informant, Mr. Boggs, and had learned on what facts his suspicions were founded. But when that wary attorney ascertained what had occurred, his views underwent a sudden change. He told Mr. Perth he believed he had been too rash, indeed he said circumstances had since come to light which convinced him he was entirely in error, and reminding the young lawyer of his promise of secrecy, he begged him to think no more of such an unfortunate mistake. Perth did not believe him, but without his assistance, he had no pretext for a complaint against Werter, and he at once abandoned all thought of making one.   CHAPTER XV. THE MURDER OF BRAIL. IT was not until Addison awoke to a sense of his entire indigence that he realized the height of that hope from which he had been dashed. All that he might have be- come, all that he might have done for others--the name he might have achieved-the renown he might have won- all came now to his mind, to increase the bitterness of his grief, to add to the depth of his dejection. The sight of his loved parents and sister pained him, and the prospect of a grateful reply to his letter to his friend added to his misery. Life grew dark and distasteful to him, and it was only with a great effort, inspired by a sense of duty, that he shook off the torpor of gloom and resolved not to give way to desponding inaction. The rich man, meanwhile, breathed free and deep. His golden goal was gained, and the prize had not turned to chaff in his grasp. Relieved from the weight of the one great fear which had so long and so heavily oppressed him, his mind was not quick to take cognizance of any other trouble. His guilt lay lightly upon his seared conscience; he fully persuaded himself that he had committed no great enormity, and when, despite his casuistry, his benter sense told him he was a murderer, he grew profuse inr sudden charities, with which he foolishy hoped to expiate his crime. He kept his word with Brail, who saw himself speedily es- tablished, not in a house of Werter's, for that might excite remark, but in a fashionable residence, which served him (134)   X          THE MURDER OF BRAIL.       135 also for an office. His furniture, his dress, his books, his single horse and carriage, were all as he had desired, and all equal to those of the most respectable of his professional brethren. For some months he remained satisfied with these things, but his exaltation increased his ambition, and he soon began to calculate whether something more might not be attainable from the same source which had supplied him with so much. He had no scruples of principle to re- and threats upon his guilty benefactor. He took a fancy to the house in which he lived, and thinking it best to se- cure a title to it, before the time of his power had passed away, he took an early opportunity of modestly hinting his wishes to Ralph. The old man was slow to comprehend him, but when he did so, it was with the greatest alarm- for he knew that the petition was meant for a command, and that the first yielding on his part might lead to a sa- crifice of half his estate. But he looked into the face of his suppliant, which was full of fearful meaning, and he dared not refuse. He temporized for a while, hoping to evade the demand, but day after day it was urgently re- peated, not with any direct threats, but with a sense of power and determination which Werter dared not withstand. He- yielded, the conveyance was duly made, and the dark and clouded brow of Brail grew calm again. Vain hope! to satisfy the cravings of a newly-awakened avarice by temporizing concessions. Brail had gained much, but he had resolved to be rich, and not many weeks elapsed before he gave his thumbscrews another turn. Part of Ralph's real estate lay in one of those then embryo cities, which now stand vis-a-vis to the metropolis, on op- posing shores, rivalling its splendor, and Brail had set his heart upon obtaining a tract of land in that quarter. There was one farm, nominally such, fronting on the river,   J1OU       '1'tlt MTE IStSER HEIRK. which was of vast prospeetive value, and would make him independent-and he asked the owner for it as coolly as if it had been an apple. "Why it is worth a hundred thousand dollars," exclaimed Werter, with the greatest amazement and trepidation. "I know it-that is just the reason I want it." "You certainly cannot have it," replied Ralph, despe- rately. "I certainly will," returned Brail, smilingly. Ralph expostulated, but Brail was firm. "You have no power over me," said Werter, for he could not pretend to misunderstand his companion's meaning. "I complied with your former request out of gratitude, not from fear." "Perhaps I have no power over you," replied Brail, with a sneering smile; "we shall see. Poisons can be de- tected in the human system months after death. Can I not swear I sold it to you the afternoon) of your nephew's death, and that I was ignorant of the use you intended it for?" Ralph trembled. "You said it was not poison," he re- plied. "No matter what I said then-you had better mind what I say now." "But you have been richly repaidi already, and you ought to be satisfied. See how easily you have acquired your fine house." "Not more easily than you have obtained the whole es- tate-which you ought to share equally with me. I am moderate in asking only for the farm, and by ! I will have it." "How do I know that even this would content you, if I should yield?"    .   "I will swear it-I never will molest you more. I will sell it, and quit the country, never more to return." "But this is one of the finest pieces of property I have. I cannot give you this-ask something more reasonable." "Nonsense! you have a dozen equally good tracts ; it is not a tenth part of your wealth, and I have some peculiar As reasons for fancying this. I must have it, Werter." "Well, come and see me to-morrow about it," replied Werter, with a groan. "If I must, I must-but I am not well to-day." "I will come to-morrow; but remember I am not to be trifled with-nor put off long." Werter was in an agony of terror, but mingled with his fear was a vindictive hatred of the accomplice who had so suddenly become his tyrant and oppressor, and he heaped execrations upon his own head for his folly in investing the otherwise weak and obscure villain with so tremendous a power over him. All day, and all the long, sleepless night that ensued, his thoughts were upon the harrowing subject, trying to devise means to evade the threatened exaction. Morning came, and his persecutor. There was a baleful glare in the eye of Werter as he invited his visitor into his office, which would have frightened a cautious man; but Brail was too intent on his golden prize to notice it. They en- tered into conversation, which was conducted in a nervous, fitful manner by Ralph, who walked much about the room, and passed frequently behind the chair in which the physi- cian sat, and which he had placed for him, before his arri- val, a few feet in front of a dark closet. This door, in the course of his walks across the room, he opened twice and looked in-twice he went to the windows and looked out. Irresolution marked every movement; but at length he sat 12   138       THE MSER'S HEIR. down, and looked earnestly at Brail for some minutes, as if impressed by; a new and sudden thought. "It is useless to hesitate," said Brail. "I suppose it is; but there is one thing to be considered. It would look a little suspicious for me to convey so large a property suddenly to you, who are generally supposed to have no means, or very little. We had better seem to bar- gain about it for a day or two, and go together and see it, which will give the affair more plausibility. Besides, I want to see the land; I have not been on it in a year, and I want to know what and how much I convey." "If you will go to-day-" "This very afternoon." 'Be it so, then; I should like to see it again myself. At what hour shall I call?" "Say two o'clock--no, I think a little later than that," answered Werter, after a moment's pause. "I have an engagement-say at three, or rather at half-past three o'- clock." "Will there be time?" "Oh, plenty. We can go all over it before dark." "Very well, I will come." Brail departed, and Werter looked after him from the door, until he was out of sight. Then he returned to his own room, looked again into the closet, and passed again to the window, whence he looked out and listened to the roar of the street, as it ascended to his room, at times making the very sash to rattle. "I might have done it," he muttered. He passed the interval that elapsed before the hpur of the appointment chiefly alone, and when the time drew near he made some strange preparations for his jaunt. The weather was not cold, but he wore a large overcoat, one pocket of which was protuberant with its contents, and he   THE MURDER OF BRAIL.       139 took a heavy cane that he had been long unaccustomed to carry. "It may be damp before we come back," he said, in an- swer to an inquiring look of Brail; "I must guard against the rheumatism." "Very true." Ralph was not quite ready when his visitor came, al- though he had named so late an hour, and when at length he was fully prepared to start, the carriage which was to take them to the ferry was not in readiness. It was a mis- take of the coachman, he said, and another quarter of an hour was lost, so that it was past four o'clock when they drove off. "There will be plenty of time," he said. "Oh, yes, plenty-fortunately I am not afraid either of cold or wet," replied the physician, who was in high glee. They reached the ferry, and Werter sent his carriage back.  It would be wanted by the family before their re- turn, he said, and they could do very well without it on the other side. The coachman inquired if he should meet them on their return. No, the hour would be uncertain, and it might be late-they would walk home. Ralph walked slowly, after they had crossed, and it was considerably past five o'clock when they reached the farm, which, although fronting for half a mile on the river, was at a considerable distance from the landing. There was a tenant's house upon one edge of the tract, fronting on a street which was laid out but not opened.  Here they called, at Ralph's suggestion, and remained a considerable time to rest, so that the sun was nearly down-when they started to go over the grounds. They walked along the river's side for a while and admired, at least Brail did, the view of the city opposite, and the distant bay. He was in excessive spirits, and by that singular illusion which so   often misleads the light-hearted, he seemed to fancy that his companion was as elated as himself. They wandered on, Werter pointing out from time to time the intended line of future streets which were to intersect the land, and descanting upon its great value, a theme of which Brail did not readily tire. The sun set while they were thus en- gaged, and the gray shades of twilight began to envelope the landscape, but Werter walked on slowly, and now his steps were directed towards the rear of the tract, which they had not yet visited. The land was nearly all cleared, but there remained a considerable grove in that quarter, which had been purposely left, and which, when thinned out, Ralph said would be highly ornamental. It was quite dense now, and as they approached it the voices of its va- ried tenants came out in dismal union from its gloomy re- cesses. The plaintive call of the whip-poor-will, the hoarse croaking from the marsh, and the boding cry of the owl, by turns reached their ears-while flitting bats crossed their path, and now and then the nimble night-hawk darted through the dusk, swallow-like in its swiftness, and in the sinuosities of its course. Still talking, they went on, almost to the edge of the wood, when Brail suddenly paused. "We don't want to go in there," he said; "there's no- thing to be seen there." "It is our nearest way, and it is a very narrow strip. We shall be through it in a minute-come on." Brail went on-he did not know that the wood was many rods deep-that it was far from any human habitation- but after a few steps he stopped again and said- "You are mistaken, Werter; you have certainly lost your way; the ferry lies in that direction. Come, let us get away from all these horrid noises." So saying, he led the way rapidly in the direction he   'lin i MUlDER OF BRAIL.     141 had pointed, and the old man was compelled to follow. Reluctantly and slowly he did so, talking but little, and when they came near the tenant's house, he insisted on again stopping in. They staid until it was quite dark, for the sky was partly overcast, and there were some dense masses of clouds skirting the western horizon, fragments of which became detached at intervals, and rose slowly to- ward the zenith. Werter looked out from time to time- the sable curtain was spreading in every direction--the stars one by one were put out. "It is time to go," said Brail. "Yes," answered a voice so hoarse that the first speaker turned in amazement to see whence it proceeded. The rich man's tenant proposed to accompany them to the ferry, but Ralph declined the offer without thanks. They knew the way, he said, and could go very well. The night proved to be even blacker than they had anti- cipated. An Egyptian darkness, almost tangible, over- spread the land, and when they were out of doors they stood a moment quite bewildered. "Why, Werter, we never can find our way," said Brail. "Yes, yes, we can, very well-wait a moment until our eyes get used to it-come on, I know the way. We'll take a short cut across the fields." "Across the fields such a night as this! Why you are crazy, man-we should pitch into a dozen bog-holes, pro- vided we were fortunate enough to get out of the first eleven. You are quite too sparing of your friends. I say the man shall go with us with a lantern." "Stop, Doctor-I insist; it is quite unnecessary-I be- gin to see very well." "Never you mind, I'll satisfy him; I'll pay him myself." So saying, Brail darted back into the house, and soon 12*   "2       THE MSER'S HEIR. after re-appeared, accompanied by the tenant, bearing a lantern. "I knew you would need mne-you might as well have accepted my offer at first," said the man. "We don't need you," replied Werter; "give me the lantern, and you may return." "No, I have been paid for going," replied the man, laughing; " and I must earn my money. I don't mind it." Further remonstrance was useless, and the party pro- ceeded to the ferry, which they were still nearly half an hour in gaining. There was a boat in -the slip, and the bell struck the first signal for departure as they reached the gate, where Brail dismissed the attendant and then hurried forward. Werter followed with quick step, the bell struck again, and they were barely on board when the boat shoved off. Ralph stopped at the end of the vessel, just inside the chain, which had been put up, and which they had to take down to ad- mit of their passing. He did not replace it, but stood lean- ing against the stanchion to which it was fastened. "Let us go inside," said Brail. "Wait a minute-I am tired, and the air is refreshing." Brail was close by the old man's side, and they stood talking for a minute, while the boat shot rapidly forward. The water, the shore, and the sky, were all of the same pitchy hue-no line of demarcation was visible-the plash of the wheels and the closing in of the waves in their wake, alone told what element they were in. There were few passengers, and all but themselves had gladly gone inside. "Your farm is about in this direction, Brail," said Werter, in the same unnatural voice which has before been noticed, "off where you see that light." "Where? I see no light." "Stand where I do, and you'll see it. There!"   THE MURDER OF BRAIL.       143 Ralph stepped aside, and his companion took his place by the stanchion, about two feet from the extreme end of the boat, and peered eagerly forward through the darkness to catch sight of the beacon which designated his coveted land. A child's strength could have done it, but there was the gathered desperation of two long days in the thrust which came upon the doomed man. There was an oath, a shriek, a plunge, and the dark waters closed over their victim. The murderer held on by the rail, and peered over into the gloom and listened!-but no sound came up from the murky waves. The boat was going rapidly--the tide, more rapid, was rushing seaward, and if there had been any hope for a strong swimmer, a minute's delay of help would have frustrated it. Ralph waited that minute, and yet another-and then he rushed into the cabin and gave the alarm of "a man overboard." All rushed out, but it was some seconds before any one had presence of mind enough to give notice to the pilot, and then the boat went thrice her length before she could be stopped. After much delay, a small boat was lowered with lights, but with scarcely the shadow of a hope ofres- cue, although the accident was supposed to have been coin- cident with the alarm. "Who was it? Was he a friend of yours?" asked sev- eral of Ralph, around whom a crowd was gathered, and who, without feigning it, was much agitated. "Yes, it was Dr. Brail, an eminent physician of Broad- way." Many questions were asked, and many fictitious partic- ulars of the supposed accident were given' by Werter, ex- citing scarcely less sympathy for the seemingly distressed friend than for the victim himself. Others were watching   1-4f      TIIE MSERrS HEIR. the dancing lights of the small boat, and listening to hear some sound of hope and cheer from its rowers, but they looked and listened in vain. After ten minutes' useless quest, it returned, and the steamboat proceeded onward to her dock, bearing with her many a saddened heart, but none so miserable as the man who had succeeded in his most earnest wish, and who boasted to himself of his safety secured, and a hundred thousand dollars saved.   CHAPTER XVI. S} '.     THE NEW CLAIMANT. OUR history retrogrades to a point of time about three months prior to the occurrence of the events last related, and about an equal period subsequent to the death of Sid- ney. No material change had taken place in the family of Captain Jay, the night of whose affliction seemed even darker now than before it had been irradiated by the me- teor-like light of a failing hope. They were human, and it was perhaps impossible that they should not find their mis- ery aggravated by the great and unusual display of wealth which the Werters now made, and by the supercilious airs of the female members of the family, on the few occasions when they met either Addison or his sister. Both had been too frequently at their father's house during Sidney's last illness to admit of being treated entirely as strangers, yet such treatment would have been less uncivil and unkind than their vulgar assumption of superiority, and their very evident contumely for their impoverished acquaintances. Mr. Perth had been sufficiently discreet and considerate, never to mention to Addison his suspicions in regard to the immediate cause of Sidney's death, for while such a com- munication would have done no good, it could not have failed to greatly increase the distress of the young man, whose own hand had doubtless administered the fatal draught. From this horrible reflection At least he was saved, and as for the rest, he strove resolutely to submit unrepiningly to the manifest will of Providence. (145)   "6       THE M-ISER'S HEIR. He had now looked for some weeks for an answer to his letter to Edward Hazleton, not with any pleasing anticipa- tions, but with a nervous dread of the effect of his prema- ture promises upon the mind of his sanguine friend. IIc had indeed written a second letter to Edward, soon after Sidney's death, but to this it was yet too early to expect a reply. It was on a day of unusual depression that the expected letter came, and Addison hastened home to read it at once to his parents and sister. Expressing his sympathy for his friend as he broke the seal, he proceeded to read with emotions easily imagined the following startling epistle : "My dear Friend- "Extraordinary as was the, intelligence contained in your kind letter of the first of March, I have that to com- municate in return which I think you will acknowledge to be still more astounding. So anxious am I to' tell, you speedily all that I think I have discovered, and which your letter has been the principal means of revealing, that 1 must hasten to my story without the preface or introduc- tion which its important character would seem to demand "When you were here, you occasionally mentioned your cousin, whom you then seemed scarcely to know, having had but but a single interview with him since childhood: but you never spoke of him by his family name, which, if I thought at all on the subject, I supposed to be the same as yours. But in your last letter, in describing the angelic boy so soon to take his leave of earth, you call him Sidney Werter! iHeaven knows what cause I have to remember that name--what cause she has, who, I assure you, Addi- son, notwithstanding all my frivolity, is dearer to me than my own life-my mother! But do not think I have built the strange theory which I am about to disclose to you,   THEI NEW CLAIMANT.        147 merely on the coincidence of a single name, for you also inention incidentally the Christian name of Sidney's uncle and guardian, and the fact that he was once a resident of Barbadoes. "Let me hasten then to lay before you, chiefly in my plother's words, a painful secret in her history and mine, which all our former intimacy has never tempted me to divulge. About thirty years ago, two young men, of Scotch origin, bearing the names of Ralph and Hugh i  Werter, became residents of Barbadoes, and were engaged as clerks in mercantile houses. They were brothers- Ralph, the elder, being more than thirty years of age, and Hugh six or eight years his junior. They brought recom- mendations for integrity, they acquired a character for shrewdness, they were gentlemanly in deportment, but the elder had a reputation for sordidness of disposition, from which at that time his brother was supposed to be exempt. This opinion, alas! that I should say so, proved to be er- roneous. The same covetous nature was his, concealed under more graceful and refined manners, and by a more cultivated mind. After several years' residence in Barba- does, Ralph removed to New York, and it was about this period that my mother's acquaintance with the younger brother commenced. She was the only daughter of wealthy parents, and that wealth was an attraction which numbered the young foreigner among her admirers. He was an urgent suitor, she was young, susceptible and confiding. Addison, I am writing in breathless haste, for I see that you anticipate the denouement. They were engaged-- they were married! Hugh Werter was my father! Sid- ney is my brother! "But how I shall I perform the painful task of narra- ting a father's crimes--a mother's disgrace and wretched-   ness ? My heart, my hand recoil from the recital, and I can only accomplish it by doing so in few words. "My grandfather became a bankrupt-my father a fiend! His love had been simulated -his hatred was real. He abused and deserted my mother, before my birth, and fol- lowed his brother to New York. Crushed with the weight of her grief, when she found how utterly she had been de- ceived in the man she loved; desertion added nothing to her misery except a sense of shame. This, however, did not endure. Resolute and proud of spirit, she rose above her calamity, and looked with scorn upon those who could im- pute disgrace where there was no crime. She did not fol- low nor write to her husband; nay more, she indignantly renounced his name, and assumed her former one, by which both she and myself have always been known. "I said she did not write to him, but this is not strictly correct. In after years, when her parents were dead, and she was reduced almost to beggary, for my sake, then a child of eight years, she overcame her anger and pride, and wrote to my father. She implored him to do some- thing for his child, to save him from destitution. She re- ceived a letter in return-thank Heaven, she has it yet !- enclosing a hundred dollars, and promising to send her as much more, if she would send her most sacred promise that she would never seek to find him nor write to him again. For her son's sake, she eagerly made that promise, and faithfully kept it. She received the additional sum, and it was the means of our support until my mother found op- portunity of turning one of her accomplishments to account, and obtained employment as a teacher of music. With the most unconquerable energy, the most patient self-denial, at a time when I,-a giddy boy, could appreciate neither, she supported us both, and educated me during a period of eight years. Since then I have compelled her to desist    ---v **  4J VA*J 1 Al *   JAI  VF and have put my own shoulders to the wheel of labor; and at times I almost feel a sense of pain at our changed pros- pects, which may leave me no longer the privilege of work- ing for so dear a parent. You understand, of course, what I mean by changed prospects, for this is the brilliant de- nouement to which all my story points. If Sidney's father and mine were the same, as everything indicates, he-oh! whisper it not while the dear boy yet lives-is illegitimate, and I am the rightful heir to the great estate of which you speak. Be not alarmed for your own interests, or those of your friends, by this claim; for, if I should succeed to the estate, my brother's intended will shall be faithfully carried. into effect, in relation to all secondary bequests, while as to the great bulk of the property, I have not the least doubt that you and I can agree upon a satisfactory division of it, for we-my mother and myself-are quite willing that you should have half, and I am not afraid that you will ask for more. "You will see that I speak of these golden prospects with much confidence, and you will, perhaps, impute it in a great degree to my naturally sanguine disposition, but I havoe probably more reason for doing so than you imagine, for I have already consulted eminent counsel here, who are familiar with the leading principles of your laws, who say our right is indisputable. We have the most positive proof of the marriage, for not only has mother a certificate to that effect, but the clergyman who officiated at the cere- mony is still living, and can be produced. I have written this letter exultingly, because I supposed it most probable that your own faintly-expressed hopes have been dashed by the premature death of Sidney; but if it should prove otherwise, and if you are already in possession of the estate, you will perceive that you have little cause for ap- prehension. 13   *-wu      1-ac  h b Hre EIK. "But I must reserve further particulars until I can see you and communicate them orally, for I have innumerable things to tell. We shall sail for New York within a few weeks-my mother and myself; we shall bring with us the clergyman of whom I speak, and we shall be prepared for an immediate, prompt, and energetic assertion of our rights. Until then, adieu, dear Addison; remember me as usual to your parents and sister, with whom I seem to have been long acquainted, and believe me to be your very sincere friend. "EDWARD HAZLETON." It would be idle to attempt to paint the tumult of delight- ful feelings with which Addison read, and with which his parents and sister listened to the contents of this epistle. They could scarcely believe that all was real, and it was not until some parts of the letter had been twice or thrice perused, that they began to partake fully of the writer's sanguine hopes. ' "There can be no doubt about the facts," said Addison, "for here he gives the full name of his father, Hugh Wer- ter, whom we also know to have resided in Barbadoes about the time he mentions." "They must be very confident of success," replied the elder Mr. Jay, " as they are both- coming immediately to New York, at great expense, and evidently prepared to spend all their little means' in a vigorous prosecution of their claim." "'Edward must be a very noble and generous young man," said Mrs. Jay, "to be willing to surrender half of the whole estate to Addison." "I will nevereake it," replied the young mai; it is his by every right; he may give me a moderate fortune if he chooses, but half would certainly be too much."   "He knew you expected much more from your cousin, and he does not wish you to be disappointed." "If he gives to father and Lizzie the fortunes which Sidney intended for them, I shall not be much disappointed, although my own portion were but a tenth of the remainder. Even that, according to Mr. Perth's calculations, would exceed a hundred thousand dollars." "That, certainly, would beno very serious affliction," said Lizzie, laughing; "I think most men would be able to bear up under it." "Well," said Capt. Jay, "there is a homely old adage, which says that you must catch your'fish before cooking them. It is rather early to talk about dividing the prop- erty yet." A hearty laugh greeted this remark, and the conversa- tion took another turn, for the joy of the happy circle was not unmingled with other feelings, induced by the strange intelligence they had received. They grieved at the idea that any shadow of disgrace should fall uponi the memory of the dear young friend whom they had so recently lost, or that any stigma should attach to the name of his long- buried mother; but they knew that, although Mrs. Werter was never legally a wife, she was not only innocent, but that she was entirely ignorant of her pretended husband's perfidy, and they rejoiced that the discovery of these facts had never been made until the wronged mother and her 'son had both passed from earth. Now it could injure none but the guilty. Mrs. Jay certainly felt angry at the man who had so unscrupulously allied himself to her confiding sister; but she soon repressed these feelings, for she knew that indig- nation was no proper emotion to entertain toward one who had so long been a tenant of the tomb. The interval that elapsed before the arrival of Mrs.   152       THE MSER'S HEIR. Werter and her son (for this name, by the advice of coun-- sel at home, they had already re-assumed) was one of much suspense and anxiety to the family of Capt. Jay, for they could not maintain their hopes at the elevated point to which Edward's letter had raised them. Addison, however, felt sufficient confidence in their coming affluence to venture most of his small savings in adding some articles of luxury both to their scanty furniture and to their plain apparel, in order togive a better reception to their southern friends. It was noticed, also, that in these purchases he was more par- ticular and more lavish in providing for Lizzie than for him- self, or his parents, and he spared nothing within his means for his sister, excepting what he thought might be in bad taste for their state of acknowledged poverty. They came-sooner than they were expected-and were met on shipboard by the delighted and half crazed Addison, who conducted the whole party, including the venerable clergyman, to the house of his father. The two families did not meet as strangers, but as friends long known and tried, possessing that mutual confidence in each other which integrity and kindness ever inspire. If there was any exception to the appearance of perfect cordiality between all parties, it related to Edward and Miss Jay, between whom, despite a continual effort of each to'be friendly, there was a very evident restraint existing. It began to wear off, however, in a few days, and after that it vanished with most amazing rapidity, for there was no resisting Edward's perfect good nature and exuberant spirits, and it is believed that Lizzie made no serious efforts to do so. The young men lost no time in setting the machinery of the law at work, in furtherance of Edward's claim. They called upon Mr. Perth, and laid the facts of the case before him, while he in turn, after assuring them that there could be no doubt of success, if their proof was perfect, hastened   THE NEW CLAIMANT.        153 to associate older and more eminent jurists with himself in consultation. The result of these conferences was en- couraging in the highest degree, for the leading counsel showed his confidence in the claim, by undertaking it with a zeal and earnestness that always marked his ablest pro- fessional efforts. A heavy looking man was Mr. Nott, with an uneven but massive forehead, over which his straight hair was always straggling, and under which a pair of homely gray eyes at times twinkled and sparkled, and at times seemed dull, hazy and unmeaning. But all New York could not boast a more astute or learned lawyer. Without being brilliant or ornate in anything, there was a mental strength and power in the man, a sort of intellect- ual momentum, which was almost irresistible; and many a graceful orator, who had been opposed to him, had found his fine rhetoric as useless in the contest as was the polished scimetar of Saladin before the ponderous battle-axe of Coeur de Leon. - Such was the man who took the management of Edward's cause, and the very fact that he did undertake it, was a most important step gained. But Mr. Nott did not rest satisfied with the proof of which the claimants were in possession, for although it was distinct and clear, he was unwilling to trust so important a cause to a single witness or a single letter. "There must bd other aged inhabitants of Barbadoes," he said to Edward, "who remember the marriage of your mother, and who could now identify Ralph as the brother of her husband." "I know at least. two such, probably four or five," re- plied the young heir; " but I thought the clergyman would be the most proper witness." "We must have them all," said Mr. Nott. 13*   154       THE MSER'S HEIR. "All? But the expense would be very great-I fear we are not able." We must have them all," repeated the lawyer, dictato- rially. "As to the expense, it must not be thought of in a case like this. A messenger must be despatched to Bar- badoes at once, and as we cannot compel these people th come here, he must be empowered to offer them such pay as will satisfy them." "Then I must abandon the case at once," replied Ed- ward, wofully, " for I never can raise the necessary funds for-the purpose." "Nonsense, young man; give yourself no uneasiness about it. Mr. Perth will manage it all; only do as he says, and sign such papers as he presents to you. I should not be afraid to advance a few thousands on this claim my- self, if it were in my line; but there are enough who will do it, when they understand that-" "That Mr. Nott brings the suit," added Perth, smiling. Mr. Nott smiled too, and a momentary expression of tri- umph flashed across his features, such as he often exhibited in the forum, but leaving no trace of its light upon his homely countenance. Edward implicitly followed his advice. He consulted with his mother, who was able to name three individuals, all of whom she was confident could testify clearly to the particulars mentioned by Mr. Nott, and who, she was cer- tian, would gladly come forward to befriend her, when needed, without other inducement than the payment of ne- cessary expenses. The business progressed promisingly, for it was impelled by a vigorous and resolute mind. The money was pro- cured, and a messenger was sent for the additional wit- nesses, but although the formal preliminaries of the suit were immediately prepared, Mr. Nott resolved not to un-   THE NEW CLAIMANT.        155 mask his batteries upon the defendant until everything was fully ready. Several months of inaction, therefore, elapsed, during which the strictest secrecy was preserved in regard to the movements of the claimants, and Ralph remained utterly unsuspicious of the storm which was brewing around him. It was during this interval that the tragedy already re- lated took place, and it was just when the hardened man had once more accustomed himself to a sense of security, that he was formally served with process in a suit designed to dispossess him of all his wealth. He was not easily alarmed by litigation, but the name of the plaintiff had an ominous significance, and vague and terrifying conjectures took possession of his mind. He had never known of his brother's first marriage, and he little dreamed, when with wiles and deceit he induced Addison Jay to seek a home in Barbadoes, that this very movement was the incipient link in a chain of causes destined to work his own ruin. He flew to, Boggs with the threatening document, and tremblingly inquired its meaning, which in turn the attor- ney sought at the hands of Mr. Pcrth, while Ralph anxiously awaited at the office of the former the result of the inquiries. When lBoggs returned, he was in a state of great excite- ment, but not apparently very miserable. Werter had always been an unprofitable client to him, and yet he was perpetu&lly seeking him when he was in trouble. ".Edward Werter, the plaintiff in this suit," he said, "claims to be your nephew, and the son and heir of your brother Hugh." Ralph laughed sardonically and contemptuously. "Why what kind of foolery is this? Everybody knows that Sidney was my brother's only child." ' Did not you and your brother once both reside in Bar- badoes?"   "Yes." "Did he not remain there several years after you came to New York?" "Yes--what of that?" "Was there not a young lady there whose name was Hazleton? "Yes." "And a Mr. Enfield, a clergyman?" "Yes, again. What do these questions mean?" "It is alleged that your brother was married to Miss Hazleton by the clergyman I have mentioned, who is now here to prove it-that he deserted his wife and followed you to New York, where he married again-and that now his widow and his son, who was born after the father's flight, are here to claim his property."  ' "It is all false as the Koran, a trumped-up story-too flimsy to deceive a child," said Ralph. "No such people are here. It is some plot of that young vagabond Jay, to extort money from me." "But, Mr. Werter-" "I tell you it is false," he repeated, violently. "Are you a lawyer, and yet so easily duped? Do you not know that that villainous Addison went to Barbadoes, where he has doubtless heard just enough about our once residing there, and about Hugh's acquaintances, to admit of con- cocting such a fool's story as this?" "I know," replied Boggs, gravely, " that I met a young gentleman at Mr. Perth's office, who, he said, was the plaintiff in this suit, and who bears as striking a resem- blance to your-late brother as ever son bore to a father." Ralph turned pale. "I feel well assured, too," continued Boggs," that Mr. Perth did not lie to me, when he said that the Rev. Mr. Eufield, and three other old residents of Barbadoes, were   THE NEW CLAIMANT.        1)7 all now actually here as witnesses to prove your brother's marriage. They were his acquaintances and yours, and were present at the wedding." The old man began to tremble, despite every effort to seem unmoved. "Did he name any of these people, besides the clergy- man?" he said, faintly. "Yes-but I do not remember the names; one has been a fellow-clerk of the bride-groom, and I think his name was something like Talford." "Talford!" said the old man, rising and grasping with emotion. "George Talford? And he is now here? Why, Boggs, this is most extraordinary-a deep-laid plot, eh?" He looked anxiously to the lawyer for a word of en- couragement. "Counsellor Nott is not the man to engage in plots," replied Boggs, coldly. "But you don't really thinfc that there is anything in this story?" "I really do think, Mr. Werter, judging by the charac- ter of the men engaged in the suit, the simplicity of the story, the connection of all its parts, and the great resem- blance of the complainant to your brother, that you have the strongest ground for apprehension." Werter's courage seemed entirely to have deserted him. If such was the opinion of his own lawyer, he thought, what would the unbiassed say. The conviction, indeed, was forced upon his mind that the story must be true, and he began to recall some hints (of Hugh's, made many years before, which must have had allusion to this very affair, while unfortunately for him there was no basis of integrity in his brother's character, on which he could found a con- trary hope. He had been none too good for so criminal an   158       THE MSER'S HEIR. act. Ralph felt something in the mood which often besets the human mind, when in imminent peril-to brave speedily its fate, and know the worst. He induced Boggs to go immediately and learn where Mr. Talford could be found, and when the name of his hotel was brought to him, he hastened to call upon him. The southerner was a man of about fifty-five years, and Werter was much his senior, yet although Time had wrought great changes in each since they had last met, they recognized each other without in- troduction, and almost the last hope of Ralph forsook him when he became certain of the identity of Talford, and heard from his own lips the errand on which he had come. The whole plain and truthful story he heard, of events long past and well known to many, but never before known to himself. He heard the names, too, of Mr. Talford's fellow witnesses, whom also he well remembered as his brother's young acquaintances, and as men who would be likely to be present at his marriage, and he was told that he might have an interview at any hour when he chose to seek it with Mrs. Hugh Werter and her son, his nephew. He did not choose it. He went home in a sort of stupor, produced by the shock he had received, and from which when he emerged, it was only to a keener sense of anguish. Several weeks elapsed, during which nothing could be done in defence of the suit brought against him, excepting to employ able counsel, and then await in painful suspense the law's slow delay. In the mean time his depression daily increased. In prosperity, his conscience had seemed utterly seared, but in the gloom of adversity the giant phantom of remorse arose, and became, as it were, his mental shadow, ever near him, dark and silent, yet ever repeating in dumb show his past deeds, as the natural shadow mimics those of the present. His-last dreadful crime was yet but of recent date, and while he shudderingly contemplated all   THE NEW CLAIMANT.       159 its horrid details, new fears began to take possession of his mind. He had heretofore considered himself free from all danger of detection, but with the cowardice of guilt he now fancied he saw accusation in every eye that gazed upon him. That suspicion which he imagined he soon created. He started so strangely and looked so alarmed whenever- the death of Brail was mentioned-he related the occur- rence! with such unnecessary minuteness of detail to all questioners, and yet with such frequent variations and in- consistencies, that dark and as yet unwhispered surmises arose. Neighbor looked into the countenance of neighbor, to read the: reflection of thoughts which neither dared to utter, against a man possessing all the power and prestige of great wealth; for, although the pending suit was known to many, very few knew its serious import, or believed in the validity of the claim. Yet some one, bolder than the rest, ventured at length to ask whether Werter could have any reason to wish the death of Brail. This inquiry being once started, the whole subject of the physician's sudden rise from obscurity, and his intimacy with Ralph was dis- cussed. Yet no key to the mystery was discovered. But Brail had not died quite friendless. He had left a widow, a woman of a naturally coarse and harsh mind, who had become assimilated to her husband during his many years of sin and suffering, and who, if not a participant in his crimes, was often cognizant of them. She had known of her husband's first visit to Sidney, for there was nothing in that act which he was desirous to conceal, and she had also known of Werter's visit to Brail on the day of Sidney's death, although she could only guess its object. She did guess it, however, with tolerable shrewdness, and without any great regret, when the fortunes of her husband under- went so sudden and marked a change without any assigna- able cause, excepting the favor of Werter. Of the pecu-   160       THE MSER'S HEIR. liar negotiations which had more recently ensued between the coadjutors in crime, she was unapprised, but she could not fail to perceive that Brail had acquired great power and influence over the millionaire. True affection belongs to gentler natures than hers, yet she had no small attachment for her husband, and when his tragical death occurred, her grief was very violent, and probably prevented any tendency to those suspicions which the circumstances might so naturally have awakened. But a subsequent period of calmness gave rise to reflection, dark doubts suddenly arose in her mind and grew daily in magnitude, until her conjectures seemed to approach to certainty. With these thoughts, came a strong desire for revenge, of which her nature was fully capable, yet she dared not make an accusation which could only be rendered plausible by explanations which must cover both herself and her deceased partner with infamy. But when suspi- cions took shape in other minds, and grew into rumor and reached her eager ears, it re-awoke her slumbering frenzy, and her heart throbbed with as stern a determination for revenge as inspired the Scottish Helen, when her hus- band's betrayer prayed wildly and vainly fr his forfeited life. That night she visited Ralph Werter at his own house, in his private room, and a scene of wild altercation ensued, of denunciation and remonstrance, which, although its im- port was then unknown, was heard by listeners in other streets, and was long remembered by many. "To-morrow!" were the parting words with which the maniacal woman left the presence of the appalled and quailing man. "To-morrow!" she repeated, in shrill tones, from the street, as she rapidly fled from the house. "To- morrow!" mocking Echo answered from the court, and ex- ulting fiends seemed to Ralph to reply from the air.   THE NEW CLAIMANT.        161 But there was no to-morrow for him! That night the wretched man fled from his house, and, as subsequently appeared, after several hours of irresolute wandering about the docks, found a watery grave in the same stream which but a few weeks before had received his victim. " -  -  .. -. ...  ....    CHAPTER XVII. CONCLUSION. THE circumstances attending the rich man's death could not be concealed from the public, however anxious his wretched family were to hide them, and as one detail after another came to light in the suicide's history, the verdict of public opinion soon fully convicted him of both his pre- vious crimes. His family, although thus covered with ob- loquy, made for a-few months a desperate resistance to the suit instituted against them, for the wealth which they still wielded enabled them to do this, but the cause could not long be kept from trial, and the proof was too overwhelm- ing to admit of parrying or rebutting. Werter's fate, and the general belief in his guilt, may have had something to do with the promptness and evident pleasure with which the jury rendered a verdict wresting the great estate from his family, but that verdict was rendered on strictly legal grounds. It was sustained, too, despite all efforts for revi- sion or reversal, and in less than six months from the time that Edward landed in New York, he was in full possession of his property. Mrs. Werter, of course, was entitled to a life-estate in one-third of the lands and tenements, but there was no division between mother and son. The young man, with his parent's hearty consent, promptly and with alacrity proceeded to the fulfilment of the promises which he had made in his letter to Addison, very greatly to the astonishment and delight of some of the recipients of his bounty, who knew nothing of his intentions. He procured (162)   CONCLUSION.        163 from Mr. Perth the will which that gentleman had drawn for Sidney to sign, and which. had been read to and ap- proved by him, and every bequest which it contained was sacredly regarded, with the single exception of that to Ad- dison. "We cannot afford you all the remainder," he said, laughingly, to his friend, " but I have directed Mr. Perth to make out a conveyance to you in fee, of one undivided half of all the residue, after enough has been sold to make the legacies good." Addison remonstrated with great earnestness. "It was foolishy romantic and absurd," he said. "Such a thing was never heard of." Edward cared nothing for that. "Let it then -be heard of now for the first time," he said, "that a man should keep his plighted word, and give a su- perfluous half of his wealth to the friend to whom he owes it all. But for you, Addison, I should never even have known of my rights, much less should I have acquired them. Besides, were not your first thoughts given to my advance- ment, when you believed you were to be the possessor of this wealth?" "I did not mean to give you half." "Nor was there any reason why you should. You owed me nothing; I owe everything, under Providence, to you." "But your proposition would make me richer than your- self, for my share would be equal to both yours and your mother's." "That objection shall be obviated then, so as to make your interest and mine strictly equal, and that must satisfy your scruples. Indeed, Addison," he added, after a brief pause, and coloring a little, "we are all likely to be one family, and my gift to Lizzie wilt prove rather a form than   164       THE MSER'S HEIR. anything el*, for she has some weeks since consented to become my wife." "You may do what you will with me then," replied the delighted brother, who had hoped for, but had not felt cer- tain of this event; " but I assure you that the titles of your lands and tenements shall rest so loosely in my hands, that they shall return to you or Lizzie at all times, at the least shadow of a bidding." "And we will not hesitate to ask, when, we want them. So let it rest there." This arrangement was immediately carried into effect, nor did the lawyer, Mr. Perth, by whom all the necessary documents were written, and who had in so many ways served Addison and his friends, fail of a rich remembrance  from the young capitalists. He became also the agent of both in the management of their estates, which of itself se- cured to him a highly lucrative business. Suddenly and brilliantly the sun of prosperity had arisen upon the night of affliction which had so long involved the pure-hearted and unrepining family, and dazzling as were its rays, they gave promise of as much permanence as ever pertains to this world of change. To non'as the transi- tion so entire and so perfect, as to the beautiful daughter of Captain Jay, whose charms of person and youthful elas- ticity of-heart remained unimpaired, and the first freshness of whose affections were accorded to her generous and de- serving suitor. Nor is it any hyperbole to say that that suitor prized the gentle heart he had won, incomparably be- yond all else that he had gained by his visit to the Ameri- can metropolis. Wealth may take wings, or may cease to confer pleasure, but true affection is an acquisition of the soul, and partakes of its undying character. There was no reason for any material delay of so auspicious a union, nor was it long deferred. Lizzie became a bride, and accompa-   ied her young husband on a visit to Barbados, whee  nied her young husband on a visit to Barbadoes, where he desired to make some business arrangements preparatory to taking up his residence in New York. He had also friends there to be remembered, and to receive some of the overflowings of that golden treasury, which he valued the more highly because he could impart it, and because he had learned the truth of the Gospel maxim, that it is more blessed to give than to receive. Addison employed part of his time during their absence, in preparing a house for the residence of both families, for they had determined to live together, and he had ample leisure to gratify a refined taste in the adornments of that home which was to receive and to surprise his returning friends. There was also something else to show them, on which he had bestowed still greater attention, and which had cost him countless tears, less of grief than of gratified affection. It was a monument to Sidney, on which the rarest powers of art had been bestowed to symbolize the purity of his lost friend and the fervency of surviving love. "This should have been my work," exclaimed Edward, in a tone of self-reproach, as with his weeping bride he bent over the tomb of his unknown brother. "But Addi- son anticipates me in everything that is good." Little remains to be told of this eventful history. The wife and daughters of the wretched man, whose machina- tions had caused so many vicissitudes both to himself and others, did not long remain in New York. They removed to a Western State, not by any means in a destitute condi- tion, for the new heir had not suffered any very strict in- quisition to be made for past receipts. A considerable part of Ralph's great income had been regularly re-invest- ed in real estate, but whatever else remained to his family, either in money or moveables, they were allowed to retain and carry with them to their new home, whence no reliable "*   tidings of their fate were ever received by their former ac- quaintances. Captain Jay and his wife lived to participate for many years in the happiness of their children, and although the former never entirely recovered his sight, enough of vision returned to him to enable him, a few years subsequent to Lizzie's marriage, to discern dimly the fair features of yet another bride, who called him father, and for whose excel- lence the word of his ever-truthful son was sufficient gua- rantee. Addison was married, and it need scarcely be said that one who could inspire affection in so noble a heart was also capable of appreciating and rewarding it. THE END. ^ ,               ,   ELLEN WELLES; OR, TH 8OBf     OP PORT STANWII. BY P. HAMLTON MYERS, AUTHOR OF THE "MSER'S HEIR." CHAPTER I. THE RIVALS, THERE are few portions of our country more beautiful, and none more rich with historic recollections, than the val- ley of the Mohawk. Yet few, probably, of the throngs who, steam-impelled, pass daily through this beautiful re- gion, yielding to its many scenes of enchantment the tri- bute of admiration, pause to reflect upon the fearful and momentous deeds of which it has been the scene, and which are destined in after ages to render every inch of its soil classic ground. But not of thee, beautiful river, peacefully gliding through the broad and verdant champagne, laving with thy silvery waters the lips of the bending flowers upon thy mar- gin, or with gentle wrath foaming, glistening and leaping amid the cataracts of Astorogan; nor yet of you, oh, tow- (167) X   16b8       F TLEN WETLLES. ering mountains, still forest-clad; not of you, as ye now exist, the scenes and the occasions of innocent enjoyment, is the historic muse about to speak. But of man, staining your soil with blood, freighting your gales with groans, and startling your frightened echoes with war's discordant notes, and yet of man, too, thank Heaven, in holier and gentler mood, and less at war with the beauty and harmony of creation. It was in the twilight of a calm July evening, just se- Venty years ago, that two young men, lightly clad, and each bearing a rifle, might have been seen loitering upon the bank of the Mohawk, at a point near to what is now a large and populous town. Although at first sight the cas- ual observer woild have taken them for sportsmen in pur- suit of game, a little closer investigation would have con- vinced him that such was not the case, but that their arms were carried only as part of an habitual system of precau- tion in those troublous times, when no man knew at what moment he might stumble upon a deadly foe. Charles Dudley and Enoch Waldon were citizens of one neighbor- hood, and had been acquaintances from their boyhood. They were not, however, and never had been, friends. There was no approach to congeniality in their dispositions, the first being frank and generous, while the other was cha- racterized by qualities in every respect the reverse of these noble traits. They had now met by accident, and stopped to exchange such few words of constrained civility as peo- ple are wont to utter, who, Fhile they entertain for each other a secret dislike, are still willing to avoid an open quarrel. But the deportment of Waldon was marked with a sort of obsequiousness to his companion, which might have indicated to one less suspicious than Dudley some sinister design.    "Stirring times are these," he said, glancing at his wea-   THE RIVALS.         169  ' pon, after a moment's pause in conversation-"It becomes one to look well to flint and flask." "It does, indeed," replied Dudley. "I hope there have been no new massacres committed." "I don't know exactly about be massacres," said Wal- don, emphasizing the word; "Indians have their way of fighting and we have ours. But there certainly was a night attack made at Shell's Bush night before last, and houses burnt, lives lost, and prisoners taken, as usual." "This is fearful intelligence, Mr. Waldon, and, what is worse, we know not at what hour the bolt may fall upon us. You will, of course, join the Life Guard which we are or- ganizing?" "I intend to join quite a different service, I assure you,'" said Waldon, "and one in which a little more honor and I profit can be gained than in guarding a few old women and their spinning-wheels. Col. St. Leger is now on his ap- proach to Fort Stanwix, and under his banner I shall en- list without delay. Nay, hear me," he said, as the wither- ing scorn which had gathered on the face of his companion indicated a scathir ebuke, "St. Leger will reduce Fort Stanwix in three days. With the aid of the loyalists in this county, the rebellion in this section is sure to be im- mediately quelled, with little or no bloodshed. Intelligence from the south and east is equally favorable to the royal cause. If, therefore, you desire to serve your country ef- fectually, Dudley, be persuaded to go with me. The most brilliant inducements are held out, and for you, in particu- lar, influential and brave, a commission would be certain-- I may say, indeed, that I am authorized to offer it by those who have the full confidence of St. Leger." "Enough has been said," replied Dudley, with dignity; "Let us part while our blood is cool. Go, join St. Leger to devastate your native land, or join, if you prefer, the sa-    s. I v!      r iLr i V J^.lLJBINIV,   - K vage brigands and their more savage allies, whose atrocities you palliate. When we meet again, it will be as enemies." Thus saying, he turned to depart.           ! "Hold!" exclaimed the other, snatching his rifle, as if  he would enforce atteiftion, "We are enemies now!"  Stung by resentment and maddened by the thought that his plans had been prematurely and uselessly disclosed, his eye now gleamed with undisguised rage. That still another element entered into his wrath became evident by his words: "We are enemies now," he repeated, " and I have a warn- ing to bestow. You have had thoughts of Miss Welles. She is mine, affianced and plighted by her father, who with me is about to join the royal standard. See to it that my trights are regarded. Any invasion of them in that quarter will be visited by punishment summary and condign." He tapped his weapon significantly as he concluded. Dudley's eyes flashed with anger. "Do you dare to threaten me?" he said, laying hold of his companion's rifle with a firm grasp-"Me, who know i you,. Enoch Waldon, to be as cowardly as perfidious? If you are affianced to Ellen Welles, it is because her pure heart has never detected your baseness. But words be- tween us are useless. I leave, however, no armed foe in  my rear."' So saying, he wrested the weapon of the other suddenly from his grasp, discharged its contents into the air, and flinging it upon the ground, disappeared in the  forest. Mortified and infuriated, Waldon gave utterance to sofae impotent imprecations, and then, having recovered and re-  loaded his gun, rapidly departed in an opposite direction.   CHAPTER II. THE ALARM. WE ar-pt when dwelling in the sunshine of peace to look updn the season of war as one of unmitigated horror. We forget that man is powerless effectually to mar the fair face of nature, or intercept the smiles of Heaven. We for- get that the fields still are verdant, the streams still spark- ling, the sunlit canopy by day and the starry firmament at night, still beautiful and sublime, amidst all the puny tem- pests of human strife. The mind, too, buoyant and elastic with hope, and containing within itself the secret springs of joy, bids defiance at times to every peril, and often seems least desponding when dangers and trials are the most numerous and severe. The twilight had gradually disappeared, and the moon, riding high in the heavens, was illuming the landscape as Dudley pursued his home- ward way. Hill, dale and stream, bathed in a flood of sil- very light, lay spread around him far as the eye could reach, and for a while engrossed his undivided attention. But sadder themes soon pressed upon his mind. Themas the work of savages, aided and instgated by some of the lowest and vilest of the white inhabitants, who, having de- clared in favor of the royal cause, made it a cover for the perpetration of every enormity which either private revenge or the most sordid cupidity could dictate. Although these (171)    ELLEN W HLLm3. atrocities usually ccurre d were most to be dreaded in the darker nights, they were by no means confined to such seasons;the full light of the moon, and the broad glare of day, affording no protection to the peaceable inhabitants when the war spirit of their savage foes was fully aroused On again viewing the sky, Dudley beheld a belt of dense clouds skirting the western horizon, from which detached fragments were occasionally ascending zenithward, threat- ening ere long to obscure the whole firmament; and he shuddered as he thought that perhaps some fearful tragedy might be enacted upon that very night. Nor were these apprehensions his only source of disquiet. Other griefs of a private and more selfish nature also en- gaged his attention. The claim made by Waldon to the affections of Miss Welles, although little worthy of credit, i was not without its effect upon his mind. It had revealed to him the state of his own feelings, of which he had before scarcely been conscious, and at the same time had conjured up phantoms of obstacles to his hopes, which, with ala lover's variableness of feeling, at one moment seemed sha- dowy and at the next insuperable. Elle Welles was a ady well' calculated to inspire affection in such a heart as Dudley's. The ordinary charms of youth and beauty were enhanced  her person by a natural grace of manner and an unalloyed sweetness of temper. If a judgment, just and discriminating, was necessary to pvevent such a characer from degenerating into insipidity, that gift also was Ellen's. Her father was a military man, and had held a captain s Commission under Sir William Johnson, in the war of 1756 Hehad purchased at the close of that contest a large es- tate in Tryon county, which the advancing settlement of the   country had rendered highly valuable, and at the pe- riod now spoken of was what, in more modern parlance, would be termed a large landed proprietor.   It was no matter of surprise to Dudley that Captain Welles should have again offered his services to the crown; but he wondered much what provision he had made for the security of Ellen, who was an only child, and who had long before -been deprived of her other parent. But had he been so disposed, he might have solved his curiosity by a direct appeal to the object of it; for Ellen Welles at that moment stood before him. She was accompanied by a sin- gle domestic, who bore a few articles of value in his hands; and her deportment gave token of alarm and agitation. Her answers to his hasty inquiries were exactly what he had expected to hear. Her father was absent from home; there were rumors of expected attacks from the Indians, and she was hastening to place herself under the protection of a neighboring family; for although Captain Welles wan well known to be loyal in his sentiments, his house was too secluded and presented too many temptations to the plun- derers to be a safe abode for an unprotected female. That Dudley at once became her escort, that he strove in every way to soothe her alarm, although far from considering it unfounded, and that he promised such protection as he could give, were quite matters of course. On arriving at the house which Ellen had selected for refuge, its inmates were found to be in a state of alarm nearly equal to her own. The intelligence of the expected attack had spread like wildfire through the little community, where the mer- ciless character of these onslaughts was well understood. The owner of the house, Mr. Lee, who was a well known patriot, was, together with his sons, busily engaged in making such hasty preparations for defence as the time al- lowed. Doors and windows were barricaded, ammunition prepared, and weapons put in order with all that bustling activity which such an emergency might well be supposed to create. The panic in the vicinity had become genimFte 15    174     -  ELLEN WJELLES. and several other of the immediate neighbors, whose houses were considered less defensible than Lee's, were soon seen flocking to his little fort, with their arms and ammunition and such of their more valuable effects as they could conve- niently transport. Lee's reputation as a bold and resolute man contributed not a little to produce this result, although it might be considered a very questionable prudence which sought shelter under a roof rendered, by the very reputa- tion of its owner, so prominent an object of hostility. The work of defence now went more rapidly forward. A breast- work of logs was soon thrown up in front of the house, and another opposite the postern door; and upon the roof of the building, blankets, saturated with water, were spread as a protection from that most formidable engine of Indian warfare, the firebrand. Dudley having become convinced of the reality of the danger, hastened to summon to Lee's such other of theneighbors as did not choose rather to seek the shelter of the forest, being conscious that their chief hope of safety must consist in thus consolidating their strength. He had no immediate relatives in the vicinity to awaken his solicitude, and was able to act the more ef- ficiently for the whole. With many injunctions to regard his personal safety, and one from a voice which he fondly fancied to be Ellen's, he departed on his mission. He found the neighborhood everywhere alarmed. Some were secreting their effects, preparatory to flight; some were bar- ricading their premises, determined to die, if necessary, on their own hearthstones; and others, in small bands, were fleeing to the forests, bearing their children in their arms, and upholding the tottering steps of thl'sick and the aged. The scene was one to draw tears from the stoutest heart, but the necessity for speedy action left little room for con- templation. Dudley had a word of encouragement and hope for all, and, although numbers gladly accepted his   THE ALARM.          175 proposal and hastened to accompany him, the majority pre- ferred to trust to the hiding places of the wilderness. He- was more successful, however, in gaining refugees than re- cruits. Women and children would add but little to the effective force of the garrison, and he was, therefore, not a little delighted at the accession to his numbers of four or five members of the half-organized band, bearing the im- posing title of the Life Guard. These were all young men, well armed, and, by the presence and peril of those most near and dear to them, furnished with the loftiest incen- tives to action. /   CHAPTER III. THE ESCAPE. THE little company were soon assembled, and set out to- gether for their temporary fortress. The strictest silence was enjoined, it being impossible to tell how near the ene- my might be, or where his advanced scouts would be met. This precaution did not prove superfluous, for they were yet a third of a mile distant from Lee's, when they received convincing proof of their danger. The silence was sud- denly broken by a tremendous war-whoop; shouts and shots echoed through the air, and soon the kindling light of a deserted farm-house revealed the exulting foe, flitting like fiends around the tenement from which they expected soon to see their victims issue. Appalled at this dreadful spectacle, the little party paused and remained for a while breathless spectators of the scene. The relative positions of the fugitives, the foe, and the fort, (for as such we must designate the dwelling of Lee,) were about as the extremities of an equal sided triangle to each other. The latter could not be gained without emerging from the woods and crossing a conside- rable space of cleared land, which was an undertaking too hazardous to be contemplated. Resuming their route, therefore, with the greatest precaution, they obtained the nearest position to Lee's that the cover of the forest would permit, hoping thence to pass unperceived across the inter- vening space, which had now become diminished to about thirty rods. But at this moment the enemy, after an im- (176)   potent howl of rage at finding the burning house unoccu- pied, took up their march. With fi'antic gesticulations, some bearing lighted firebrands, and others brandishing their knives, they bent their course, as had been appre- hended, directly toward the fort. But perceiving some signs of defence, they made a, detour around the premises in a course which threatened to bring them almost directly to the concealed party. To remain in the most perfect silence, was deemed safer than any attempt at retreat before the quick eye and ear of the savages. The available portion of Dudley's force, consisting of seven armed men, obeying the whispered or- ders of their leader, stood with presented arms, ready in case of discovery to discharge a sudden volley upon the enemy, and then, by virtue of the panic which such an as- sault would create, either to cut their way through the foe to the fort, or make a rapid retreat, as circumstances would dictate. Dudley, by general consent, had been invested with entire command. As the savages drew nearer, they were perceived to be about sixty in number-including, perhaps, ten or twelve whites, who, having adopted the dress and habits of their confederates, may justly be con- sidered as entitled also to their appellation. With glisten- ing knives, with glaring brands, with exulting shouts, they came nearer and nearer until their advance was scarcely a dozen yards distant from the hidden encampment. Here they suddenly paused and seemed to hold a consultation. It was a moment of fearful suspense. Trembling children cowered closer to their terrified parents, and with large blue eyes upraised, faithfully obeyed the often repeated signs of silence. The pause was. but momentary; but at the instant of renewing their march, one of the concealed company unfortunately gave utterance to a slight ejacula- tion of delight, which, catching the quick ear of the Indian 15*   178        ELLEN WELLES. leader, produced a second halt. Pointing to the woods, and assuming a listening attitude for a moment, he thus communicated to his followers the nature of his suspicions. A scout was immediately detached to examine the suspected cover; but watchful eyes and active hands awaited his ap- proach. He directed his course at once to the encamp- ment, but with such rapid and incautious steps that, before perceiving the ambush, he was at the side of Dudley, who had advanced a step to meet him. The expressive "Huh!" rose faintly to his lips as the firm grasp of the youth en- circled his throat, while the silent knife completed the task, and the dying Indian was upheld, lest his fall should be heard. The savages, after the delay of a minute or two, hearing no alarm, slowly resumed their course, not doubt- ing that their emissary would soon overtake them. They pursued their circuitous way about the house of Lee, evi- dently calculating their safest plan of attack. Nothing can be more cowardly than this mode of Indian warfare, in which the assailants scarcely consider themselves victorious unless they succeed without losing a single warrior. As they approached the opposite side of the circle, the time had evidently arrived when, if at all, the fugitives were to emerge from their concealment, and make a rush for the forte To remain longer in the forest, which the Indian scouts would soon be traversing in every direction, would be imminently perilous, and with many a word of encou- ragement, Dudley put his little company in motion. Ra- pidly advancing, they had safely crossed nearly half the intervening distance, when a sudden commotion in the ranks of the foe showed that they were perceived. A shout and a rush, with such speed as Indians only can accomplish, followed the discovery. The fugitives, it will be remem- bered, wete now about fifteen rods from the house, and the savages twice that distance in nearly the opposite direction.   THE ESCAPE.        179 The race was ekciting, but not long doubtful. The enemy were still obliged to avoid too close a proximity to the house, and Dudley, halting with his little band of infantry, held them in check until the women and children were out of danger, and then, still facing the foe, with presented arms, they retreated into the fort. Not a shot was fired.   CHAPTER IV. THE RESCUE. A PIERCING shriek, which met the ear of Dudley upon his entrance, announced some new calamity. A little boy, scarce two years old, had been lost in the confusion of the flight, and its mother, borne along by her impetuous com- panions, had been unable to make her vociferations under- stood, until they reached the fort. Upbraiding herself, upbraiding her friends, and vainly struggling to escape from their grasp and fly back to the rescue, the frantic pa- rent rent every heart with .her cries. The moonlight still remaining unobscured, the infant, on examination, was dis- tinctly seen, about twelve rods distant, seated quietly upon the grass, and playing with the flowers, unconscious of danger.    The discovery was made none too soon. An In- dian, prone upon the ground, nowsying motionless like a log, and now approaching the child with a slow and cat- like gait, was at the same instant discovered, while the whole band at a safe distance were silently matching his hazardous attempt. A dozen rifles were at once levelled at the miscreant, when Dudley interposed- "For shame!" he said, "will you let one worthless dog draw your whole fire, and ensure the capture of the child, while you are reloading ? The game is Lee's by discovery. Rogers will stand ready to fire next, if necessary; and if both fail, leave the scoundrel to me." Uncle Lee, as he was familiarly called, smiled as he raised his unerring gun, and its quick report was accompanied by  A yell that seemed to proclaim the success of the shot. the Indian started from his recumbent position, and then fell heavily backward. "If he were a Christian now, one might suppose him dead," exclaimed Rogers, who had watched the effect of Lee's shot with a look of chagrin; " but I have my doubts, Captain," he. said, addressing Dudley, and raising his gun, beseechingly, " that fall was a little too theatrical." "Don't you go to shooting dead men, Mr. Rogers," ex- claimed Lee-"I tell you I've killed him." Dudley, whose suspicions from the first had been the same as those of Rogers, made a signal to the latter to fire, which he had no sooner done than the dead man rose to his feet, with a screech that could not be misunderstood; then sinking gradually to his knee, he fell shivering to the ground, with indubitable signs of death. Rogers smiled grimly as he retorted upon his compa- nion-. "'Tisn't much to kill an Indian, Mr. Lee; it's the bring- ing him to life again that shows the skill." If any doubt had been entertained of the fatality of the last fire, the yell of wrath which arose from the Indians and the volley which was discharged at the hapless infant would have effectually dispelled them. But the distance which the cowardly assailants were compelled to keep, and the minuteness of the mark, fortunately rendered their fire innocuous. It was evident, however, that the child in so exposed a situation could not long escape. "It is a shame," exclaimed Dudley, "that a helpless babe should perish and twelve strong men look idly on. I myself will save him." Thus saying, he threw down his gun, that nothing might retard his speed, and prepared to rush out. But the firm grasp of Lee was on his shoulder.   182        ELLEN WELLES. "'Tis certain death,' said the old man; "you will be a mark for thirty rifles." "And if it were thirty thousand, I would go," retorted Dudley, impetuously, and tearing himself away. But at this moment a singular apparition entered the room, which, whether or not it was anything more than a huge tin Dutch oven, surmounted by an inverted pail of the same material, was certainly nothing less. It required a little investigation to perceive signs of a human being un- der this extraordinary coat of mail, but in a moment more -familiar voice proceeding from beneath the kettle pro- claimed a well-known slave of Lee's, by the name of Nando. Merely announcing his object, the faithful negro darted out of the house, and, presenting his shielded side to the enemy, ran hastily toward the child. There was one moment of fearful suspense, a yell, a volley, and a responsive shout of derision from the slave. At the next, Nando bent over the wondering child, thrust him hastily within his capacious shield, and, rushing rapidly back, reached the house in safety. The cordial greetings, the welcoming grasp, the wet'eyes, and the warm outpourings of a mother's gratitude that here encountered him, astounded and bewildered the heroic African, while the marred and battered utensil told eloquently the tale of his danger and his daring.   CHAPTER. V. THE STRATAGEM FOILED. THE event most desirable for the savages, and for which they had probably been waiting, now unfortunately occurred. The heavy drifting clouds which had long blackened the western horizon, began now to obscure the whole sky, and a thick darkness soon settled upon the landscape. To fire the building and compel its evacuation, and thus to capture or massacre the whole party, while its defenders had no ad- vantage of shelter, and were impeded with the care of their women and children, was the chivalrous feat which the be- siegers now contemplated. The danger could not be concealed, and hope consisted only in meeting it courageously. In a momentary inter. view which Dudley obtained at this period with Miss Welles, the latter communicated to him the dreadful suspicion that one of the leaders of the enemy was Enoch Waldon, whom she believed that she had recognized both by his figure and gait. Although horrified at the supposition, there was also a gleam of pleasure in the announcement; for whether Waldon were so deeply guilty or not, the fact that he could be obnoxious to such a suspicion of Ellen, precluded the idea of her entertaining for him any partial feeling. Ani i mated by an increased hope, Dudley begged Ellen to con- sider herself under his especial protection, and, with as earnest and eloquent look, he added, not to believe hreidf in danger while he continued to live. There was nothing in the words, but there must have been omething in thw (188)   manner of the speaker to call the quick blood to the cheek of Ellen. Hurriedly thanking him, she turned away, and Dudley, with a comparatively light heart, hastened to pre- pare for further defence. Placing two or three men at each of the several windows, so as to command to some extent every side of the house, he directed them'to keep up a random fire, in hopes that the besiegers would be intimidated from a near approach. For a while this plan seemed to succeed, and no sound of the foe being detected, the belief was entertained that they were effectually repulsed. But the more wary were not disposed to such ready hope. The silence was too deep and ominous. Alarmed by the very quietude without, Dudley, after ordering increased vigilance on every side, announced his determination to ascend to the house-top, and called upon three or four of his most resolute compa- nions to follow him. A small "sky-light" afforded means for effecting this object, and with extreme silence and cau- tion Dudley ascended only until his head had fully emerged into the open air. Pausing to reconnoitre the adjacent fields, his eye was immediately arrested by what at first seemed a few fire-flies flitting about the roof. With a sud- den and fearful suspicion he remained motionless, and made a closer scrutiny. Feeling cautiously about him, he ascer- tained that the wetted blankets had been removed, and the conviction that the roof was already in possession of the Savages forced itself upon his mind. His position was nearly at one' extremity of the building, which was long and narrow, with a single chimney at the opposite end. Peering earnestly through the thick darkness, he at length discovered part of the outline of several figures in a -sthoping attitude. The sound of breath, as in the act of. blowing at emberks also reached his ear from several quar- ters, and convinced him that the Indians were at that mo-   ment engaged in setting fire to the building. His prudence for the moment almost yielded to the quick feeling of rage which prompted him to rush headlong upon so diabolical a foe; but restraining his wrath, he immediately drew back and communicated to his astounded companions the nature of his discovery. His resolution was immediately taken. The sky-light, which was gained only by moveable steps, would admit of only three persons standing within it; and having stationed that number of his little garrison at the 'foot of the steps with reserve guns, he called uponi Hee and 'Rogers to follow him, and once more ascended with the same perfect silence as before. Rising until their shoul- ders were above the roof, the three remained standing, mo- tionless, with presented arms. It was doubtless a hazard- ous experiment for the besieged party to wait for the kin- dled light of their own roof to reveal the persons of their foes; but the importance of striking a signal blow, and one that might deter the enemy from making any further at- tack, overcame every other consideration. The dampened state of the shingles rendered the process of ignition slow; but at length a faint, blue flame made its appearance in the vicinity of the chimney, where a number of small fag- gots had been carefully inserted. Flickering with the wind, now sinking, now rising, the unsteady blaze was guarded from the air by both hands of a kneeling Indian, whose fiendish features as he bent over the light could be distinctly traced. Brighter and higher rose the blaze, and soon began to reveal the other objects in its immediate vi- cinity, while the place occupied by Dudley and his compa- nions remained in impenetrable obscurity. Brighter and higher still, until the alarmed inmates beneath saw the fire gleaming downward through the chinks of the uncoiled roof. But the time for action bad arrived. Other faint lights had sprung up, and the savages, to the number of 16   100 b       ELLEJN W' bLLJE. five, were distinctly visible, when Dudley, having ex- changed signals with his men, in order to select their seve- ral victims, quietly gave the command to fire. The report of the guns, and the death-screech of the Indians, was a mingled and simultaneous sound. They each rolled rapidly down the roof and fell heavily to the earth. But although Dudley and his comrades instantly handed down their guns and received others from below, only. one of the enemy re- mained visible when they were again prepared to fire. Running rapidly along the apex of the building, he had al- ready gained hold of the rope, which, thrown lasso-like over the chimney, had been the means of his ascent, and was about to swing himself off, when he received the contents of Dudley's gun. Still convulsively clutching the rope, he was seen by the now growing light to totter for a moment on the extreme end of the building, when Lee, more in pity than in wrath, gave him another ball. "'Twould have been a hard fall for a living man," he said, as the noise of the body striking the ground reached his-ear; "but a stack of feather beds wouldn't have been any mercy to him now." "Don't be too sure," replied Rogers, banteringly; " your dead men have a remarkable faculty of coming to life again, and I think I see the red devil now, scampering across the ield, with the rope in his hand!" "And a piece of the chimney, I suppose!" retorted Lee, who understood his. comrade's propensity to joke too well to take offence. , But the triumph which produced this temporary elation of spirits in these brave men wae far from being complete. The fire had gained a headway that demanded instant at- tention, and whoever ventured within its light would doubt- less be a prominent mark for the outlying foe. No time, however, was to be lost, and two brave fellows of the Life   Guard already stood prepared at the foot of the stairs for the perilous enterprise. Bearing blankets, saturated as before, they rushed hastily to the flames. The expected volley was discharged, and, unhappily, as the groans of the young men testified, not without effect. One, but slightly injured, fled hastily back, while the other, con- vinced of the mortal nature of his wounds, nobly resolved that his life should prove no idle forfeit. Staunching the life-blood with one hand, he dragged himself feebly from blaze to blaze, until the last flickering light was extin- guished, and then, with the remnant of his failing strength, crept slowly back to his companions. Drawn hastily, but gently, within, the youth was deposited upon a couch, and hasty preparations were made to examine and relieve his wounds. But observing the changing expression of his face, and obeying his significant gestures to desist, his com- rades crowded with tearful eyes around his bed. "My sister?" faintly ejaculated the dying man, as he slowly turned his eyes toward the door. A low wail was heard without; the door opened, and the fainting maiden was supported to his bedside. A placid smile stole like sunlight over the features of the youth; his lips moved, and the trembling girl bent lower and lower to hear. The whispered words with which the parting soul went upwards, were soft as sound could be; yet distinctly articulated, they fell upon every ear, "We shall meet again!" ," .,     .........,.*   CHAPTER VI. THE ESCORT TO THE FORT. THE effect on the besieged party of the melancholy oc- -currence which has just been narrated was dispiriting in the extreme. They could not but feel that the lot of their -comrade might soon be their own, and perhaps with circum- stances of aggravated suffering. But Dudley was not with- out the strongest hopes that the severe repulse which the enemy had now met with would induce them entirely to -withdraw, the more especially as they were not supposed to know the fatal result of their last discharge of fire-arms. The war-whoop with which they had accompanied that as- sault gradually died away, and the most perfect silence again prevailed without. Dudley continued to order occa- sional shots from the window, but-they elicited no response. The utmost vigilance was used, and every possible prevent-  ive measure employed, not omitting so serviceable an agent against a scaling foe as boiling water, a department of de- fence under the especial superintendence of Nando. But these precautions fortunately proved superfluous, and the night passed without further alarm. Baffled and mortified, the savages had retired, bearing with them the bodies of six of their fallen warriors, a loss which seemed to them of almost inappreciable magnitude. , Thus the gallant defence of "Fort Lee the less," as it was subsequently termed, proved not only the security of its inmates, with one lament- able exception, but, for the time at least, of the whole sur- rounding settlement. (188) I.   THE ESCORT TO THE FORT.      189 Mutual congratulations on their escape, and devotional thanksgivings for so signal a prqtection of Providence, were among the earliest employments of the little party on the ensuing morning. But the panic which had spread through the neighborhood did not readily subside. Some, indeed, returned immediately to their homes, relying in part upon their private means of defence, but chiefly confident, from their knowledge of Indian character, that the enemy would not soon renew an enterprise which had proved so disas- trous. A more vigilant police was organized, and a por- tion of the citizens nightly acted as sentinels at all the pro- minent posts of observation. To Ellen Welles, the events which have been recorded had been doubly terrifying for a cause which has as yet been scarcely apparent. Waldon had in reality been a re- jected claimant for her hand. His pretensions had been favored by her father, who, wrapped in his selfish and per- sonal schemes, was as far from appreciating the worth of his daughter as he was from penetrating the villainous cha- racter of her suitor. To his charge, during his temporary absence from home, Captain Welles had especially confided his household, enjoining Ellen, in case of danger, to appeal at once to his protection. And more recently still, Wal- don had been the bearer of a message to Ellen from her father, informing her that he was engaged in raising a company of volunteers, with which he should immediately proceed to join Col. St. Leger under the walls of Fort Stanwix. He further informed her that he had made suit- able provision for her safety during the perilous times that were like to ensue, and directed her to accept of Waldon's escort to the place where he was then sojourning. Dreading his designs in relation to her detested suitor, yet fearing to disobey a parent who, though harsh, was her only protector, she hesitated in most painful incertitude as 16*    to her proper course of action. But when the messenger proceeded to hint that he was empowered to enforce the commands of his principal, her terror knew no "bounds. If she had before doubted, she was now decided, and she resolved to brave every other peril sooner than to trust her- self in the power of her suitor. But she did not make known her resolution, and he, supposing her only to hesi- tate, specified an hour on the next day when he would call for her decision, and courteously withdrew. It was on that evening that her flight to Lee's, impelled by a double fear, had occurred. But Waldon had not, in reality, been a participant in the affair of the preceding night, and Ellen's suspicions on that point haddoubtless been caused in part by her extreme dread of falling into his hands. It will be seen, therefore, that her alarm, although abated, was still far from being dispelled, nor could she conceal her anxiety from Dudley. To express her gratitude to her defender with becoming warmth, and yet with maidenly reserve, was no difficult task for a-sensible and ingenuous girl; but it wwas tremblingly, painfully, and by slow degrees alone, that she was able to disclose, in answers to his earnest but re- spectful inquiries, the other particulars of her unfortunate position. Beautiful exceedingly did the timid girl appear as she related her griefs, and Dudley longed for nothing so much as to- throw himself at her feet and offer her a life- long protection. But with quick discernment he appreci- ated the unfitness of the occasion for any declaration of his feelings. It should be, he thought, proudly, under other circumstances, when he was better entitled to ask, and she more free to refuse, that he would seek the hand and heart of one so peerless and so pure. At present, it became his duty rather to make provision for her safety, and on this subject he hastened to speak. He knew that small volun- teer companies, in response to the earnest appeal of Col.   Gansevoort, were daily flocking to the relief of Fort Stan- wix, and had learned, on inquiry, that one of these, en route for that military post, was hourly expected in the neighborhood. He at once proposed to her to take advan- tage of such an escort to fly to the fort, where she would find numbers of her (wn sex, who had sought the same re- fuge, and whence, if she should so desire, she could at any moment be transferred to her father in the British camp. She could be attended, he said, by her maid, and he him- self, if she would permit, would accompany her and fulfil an intention that he had long entertained of seeking ser- vice in the American army. The proposition was startling, but Ellen did not hesitate. A favorite pony, which she was accustomed to ride, afforded her a convenient mode of travel, and means were readily found for the transporta- tion of her domestic and their necessary baggage. Hap- pier and prouder than a monarch, Dudley rode at the beau- teous Ellen's side, encouraging her by his confident and cheerful mien, and building for himself many a gorgeous air-castle, whose filmy foundations seemed firmer than the rock. The same evening beheld the whole party, including Rogers, who had enlisted as a private, safely within the walls of the fort.   CHAPTER VII. THE SIEGE OF FORT STANWIX. IT Iwas but a few days subsequent to these events, that Col. Gansevoort had the mortification to find his slightly garrisoned fort invested by a force of seventeen hundred men, composed of British regulars, loyalists and Indians. His repeated Calls for reinforcements from 'the regular army had met, thus far, with nothing but promises, and un- less some effectual aid should arrive, there was every rea- son to believe that in a few weeks at farthest he would be compelled to capitulate. Col. St. Leger, Sir John John- son, and the renowned Indian chieftain, Brant, were among his besiegers, names which were of themselves calculated to inspire terror among his undisciplined troops. They did not, however, deter the gallant General Herkimer from making a noble effort for, the relief of the garrison. By earnest appeals to the patriotism of his fellow-citizens, that gallant officer succeeded in raising an army of about eight hundred men, among whom were many of the first citizens of Tryon county. With these he hastened forward by rapid marches, and pausing a few miles from the fort, des- patched couriers to notify the commandant of his approach. The discharge of artillery from the works was to announce the arrival of his messengers, and to be the signal for his advance, at which time also Col. Gansevoort, by a sortie from the fort, was expected to assist in making good the entrance of his ally. Such was the well concocted scheme of the sagacious and valiant Herkimer. But some accident (192)   THE SIEGE OF FORT STANWIX.      19J having delayed the arrival of his embassy at the fort seve- ral hours longer than was anticipated, his officers and men became impatient of delay and demanded to be led forward. Herkimer declined to advance until the anxiously expected signal was heard, but galled by the importunities and taunts of his officers, who did not hesitate openly to de-, nounce him as a coward, he gave the fatal order to march. The ambuscade, the surprise, and the bloody battle which ensued in the forests of Oriskany, are among the most me- morable events of history. On this field, the indomitable courage of Herkimer, and the pusillanimity of his traducers were both exemplified. The latter fled at almost the first onset, while their leader, although severely wounded, con- tinued upon the field issuing his orders, and calmly smok- ing his meerschaum, amidst the most sanguinary battle of the Revolution. Although the result of this engagement was one in which it is difficult to decide the question of victory, yet the main object of the expedition was defeated, No portion of Herkimer's forces reached the garrison, and Col. Gansevoort iremained in a more hopeless condition than before. He had fulfilled all that was required on his part. The sortie of Col. Willett, who gained and held pos- session of Sir John Johnson's camp long enough to trans- fer seven wagon loads of spoil, each thrice told, to the fort, was a brilliant exploit, for which Congress voted him the nation's thanks and a sword. But there are some minor incidents connected with these important events of which it is necessary to speak. Cap- tain Welles had effected his object of joining the loyalists at Fort Stanwix, and it was there that he first learned from Waldon of the flight of Ellen. Deeply incensed at her conduct, and enraged beyond measure at Dudley, he imme- diately applied to his commanding officer for permission to despatch a flag to Colonel Gansevoort, requesting safe con-   194        ELLEN WELLES. duct for his daughter to the British camp. This was grant- ed, and it was only on the third morning after Ellen's ar- rival at Fort Stanwix that she found herself thus summoned to join her father. Had it not been for Waldon she would not have hesitated a moment to yield obedience to the pa. rental authority, but her dread of her suitor had become so great as to be quite insuperable. She returned a respect- ful and dutiful answer, in which she dwelt at length upon her recent perils and her present safety, adding that she felt unable to bear any new excitement or alarm, and beg- ging to be allowed to remain in quiet in her present abode. "If," she ingeniously concluded, "if your forces are re- pulsed, I shalll certainly be safer here than in a travelling camp; but if, as you so confidently predict, you will be in possession of the fort within three days, you will then also be in possession of your affectionate daughter Ellen." But although thus baffled for the time, Captain Welles, its will be seen, was not disposed to intermit his efforts. Dudley in the meantime had found no small favor in the eyes of Col. Gansevoort, to whom, as indeed to the whole garrison, the affairs of Fort Lee had become known. In the famous attack of Col. Willett on the British camp, he bore a conspicuous part, and received the highest encomi- ums from that officer, and his reputation for coolness and courage soon became such that whenever any deed of un- usual daring was contemplated, his name was among the first to be mentioned in connection with it. He had re- ceived a lieutenant's commission, with the promise of speedy promotion, while his worthy and valiant comrade, Rogers, had also been raised to the rank of a sergeant. But in the mean time the prospects of the garrison grew daily more gloomy; and Col. Willett and Dudley undertook the peril- ous task of making their escape from the fort, travelling thirty miles through the forest on foot, and making a final   THE SIEGE OF FORT STANWIX.      195 desperate effort to rally the militia of Tryon county, where each of them were well known and were highly popular. They succeeded in reaching Fort Dayton, where to their joyful surprise they learned that Generals Arnold and Lamed had already been despatched by General Schuyler with the Massachusetts brigade and the first New York re- giment to the relief of the fort. Willett hastened to meet Arnold at Albany and expedite his movements, but al- though the latter soon arrived at Fort Dayton, countless delays still occurred in the assembling of his forces, and the danger grew daily more imminent. But Dudley, ever active and vigilant, had not been idle during the absence of Willett. Having learned of a secret meeting of the emis- saries of Sir John Johnson in the neighborhood, who were inciting the disaffected to take up arms in the royal cause, he quietly surrounded the place of meeting with a small force, and in the midst of an eloquent harangue of one of their leaders, entered the room andSmade the whole assem- bly prisoners-of these several were immediately tried as spies and sentenced to death. This circumstance afforded the means for that memorable ruse of General Arnold, of which the reader needs scarcely to be reminded. Among the condemned was a half-witted fellow by the name of -Han Yost Schuyler, for whom at the foot of the gallows an aged and widowed mother pleaded with all that earnest and natural eloquence which affection only can inspire. Ar- nold spared his life on condition that he would hasten to the British camp, where he was well known as a loyalist, and spread the tidings of his immediate approach with a large force. A brother of the prisoner consented to be his hostage, and was to suffer death in his stead if the other failed of fulfilling his contract. Han Yost proved faithful, and with the aid of a few friendly Indians, who assisted in his plot, met with the most perfect success. The large   196        ELLEN WELLES. body of Indians under Brant at once took the alarm, and as noy inducements of St. Leger could stay them, he was compelled to raise the siege and retreat with his whole force. The exultation with which this welcome intelligence was received at Fort Dayton, was felt by no one so much as by Dudley, who with Col. Willett immediately hastened to re- join and congratulate their friends. But the happiness of the former was destined to a sad and sudden reverse. Be-  guiled by a counterfeited letter purporting to have come from himself, as a prisoner, wounded and dying in the Bri- tish camp, Ellen had left the fort under the charge of an emissary of Waldon, who had not hesitated to desecrate the sacred character of a flag to so vile a purpose. This afflicting news was rendered still more alarming by the ad- ditional intelligence that Captain Welles was dangerously ill from the effects of a wound received in the battle of Oriskany. The privations incident to a travelling camp would of course diminish the chances of his recovery, and in the event of his death, Ellen would be left, remote from her friends, to the tender mercies of Waldon, unshielded even by the slight protection which such a parent would have afforded. Still another startling item of news, which was disclosed to Dudley on his arrival, was that Rogers, his faithful friend and ally in the affair at Lee's, had deserted to the enemy; an event so incredible that when forced reluctantly to believe its truth, he for a moment lost all faith in hu- man integrity. The deserter had been as remarkable for his honesty and frankness as for sagacity, and his personal attachment to Dudley was a matter of general observation. There was no time, however, for reflecting on this second- ary calamity. To pursue the retreating army, to keep in the neighborhood of Ellen, and watch the chances which   THE SIEGE OF FORT STANWIX.      197 fortune might throw in his way for her rescue, was his im- mediate and prompt resolve. Among the few Indians in the fort he found two only whom he was able to prevail upon to accompany him. They were, however, brave and sagacious, and as his hopes of success must depend less upon force than skill, the small number of his confederates was perhaps scarcely a matter of regret. 17   CHAPTER VIl. )j THE SPY. WHEN Ellen arrived in the British camp, her delight at finding the story of her lover's captivity and wounds un- true, scarcely left room either for indignation at the fraud which had been practised upon her, or for alarm at her per- sonal peril. Her father's extreme illness also immediately engrossed her attention, until the day before the flight of the army, when it terminated in his death. -When this melancholy event had occurred and the retreat was about to commence, she applied to Sir John Johnson for permis- sion to remain behind, and enforced her appeal with every argument that fear or hope could dictate. But tie artful Waldon had anticipated this movement. Captain Welles, entertaining the strongest prejudice both against Dudley and the American cause, and still reposing a mistaken con- fidence in Waldon, had been prevailed upon in his last hours to constitute the latter the guardian of his child, and had enjoined upon him to see her removed to some more loyal district. He had also expressed a strong desire that, at a fitting time, the guardian and ward might assume the relationship of husband and wife. It was not surprising, therefore, that the loyalist leader turned a deaf ear to the entreaties of Ellen, as Sir John would scarcely have re- quired so good an excuse either for rewarding a friend or punishing a political enemy. He did not even hesitate to assert that he hoped, within a few weeks, to see the guar- dian's power transformed into that marital authority which (198)   THE SPY.         199 the late Capt. Welles had evidently been so anxious should be established. "That event," he continued with a lofty air, and in an unfeeling tone, "will effectually put an end to any puerile attachments which you may fancy that you have formed, and to those equally puerile but more perni- cious political sentiments which you seem to have imbibed." Convinced that all effort in this quarter was useless, she next resolved to appeal to the generosity of Waldon him- self. But she little knew the nature of the man into whose toils she had fallen. He openly exulted in the power which he possessed over both the person and property of his un- fortunate ward. Circumstances, he said, with cool sarcasm, required their immediate departure for Oswego, at which place he hoped for leisure and means to effept a change in her views. The arguments which she undervalued in a lover would be more potent, he thought, from the lips of a husband, in which light he begged Miss Welles, from the inevitable necessity of the case, to accustom herself to look upon him in futures The nuptials indeed, he said, were already arranged; and Sir John had himself promised to give away the bride. "Miss Welles will not flatter herself," he concluded, in a severe tone, "that any contingency can prevent this re- sult. Contumacy might indeed prevent any public cere- mony, but would secure to her no further immunity." Astounded and maddened by these fearful threats, Ellen, nearly in a state of unconsciousness, continued sitting in the tent which had been allotted to her use, long after Waldon's departure. When she revived she was startled to perceive that she had another companion who bore the appearance of a private soldier; but her alarm was quickly changed to delight as she recognized in the intruder's face the familiar and welcome countenance of Rogers. Enjoining the strictest secrecy, the sergeant hastened to   200        ELLEN WELLES. inform Ellen that he knew her danger, and that his only business in the British camp was to attempt her rescue. At the same time he assured her that there was no present prospect of relief, and that all he should probably be en- abled to do would be to second such efforts as Dudley would undoubtedly make in her behalf. He also reminded her that not only his ability to aid her, but his life itself depended upon her discretion. The interview was neces- sarily brief, but it resulted in a partial renovation of El- len's spirits, and committing her cares and hopes to Him who " hears the sighing of the needy," she patiently awaited the development of events.  Rogers had joined the army as a loyalist, and, not being known as a deserter, no suspicion had attached to him. Waldon knew nothing of his participation in the defence at Lee's, or of his subsequent enlistment at the fort, and be- ing equally ignorant of his intimacy with Dudley, never doubted his loyalty. He had, therefore, easily procured an interview with Miss Welles, as an acquaintance and for- mer neighbor. The perfect secresy of his movements had been prompted by his habitual caution, and by the great danger of any rumors following him to the British camp, which would result in his trial and conviction as a spy. He cared little for the temporary odium of a deserter at home, while he retained the confidence of Dudley, who he believed would rightly conjecture his designs. How little his confidence was misplaced will appear.   CHAPTER IX. THE FRIENDS. THE retreating army returned as they had come, by the way of Oneida Lake,'and he who had watched the large flotilla as it approached the western bounas of that beauti- ful sheet of water on the evening of the second day after the raising of the seige, might also have seen, like a speck upon the wave, a single boat, fleetly following in the dis- tance. The position preserved by the solitary vessel was such as to preclude observation from the fleet, unless it might be that of an eye searching for just such an object. It need scarcely be said that it was Dudley who thus daringly followed the flying host. His first unworthy doubts of Rogers had already yielded to almost a full con- viction that the latter was in the British camp only as his friend and ally; and he indulged the faint hope of now attracting his attention, and by some means establishing a communication with him. When, therefore, the enemy encamped at dark on the borders of the lake, he retained, as before, a position in which he would be visible only to a close observer. Long and anxiously did he remain, watching the distant lights of the camp, and "hoping against hope" for some signal that he was seen and recog- nized. He knew well that any attempt personally to enter the British lines, without the pass-word, would result in his detection and in an ignominious death. Ruminating pain- fully upon his prospects, he sat for two long hours gazing towards the shore, during all which time his Indian com- 17*      (201)   202        ELLEN WELLES. panions, with bended heads, seemed to be buried in sleep. But a simultaneous start from each now proved that they bad rather been holding a most vigilant watch. Obeying their pantomimic instructions, Dudley listened long and earnestly, until he thought that he heard the distant fall of oars. A few minutes convinced him that he was not mistaken; but although the sound grew momentarily more distinct, it was impossible to tell from what direction it proceeded. Nothing could be seen, and as the darkness would prove an equal obstacle to his own position being discovered, he resolved upon the hazardous experiment of displaying a light. This was effected by means of a flint and tinder, with which he was provided, and after a mo- mentary exhibition of the flame, it was immediately extin- guished. The quick and emphatic dash of oars which suc- ceeded met with a response in his fast beating heart; nearer and nearer came the invisible vessel, nor paused until apparently within a few rods of the other. A mo- mentary silence, and the low, cautious interchange of the words "Dudley" and "Rogers" established the certainty of the anxious hopes of each. In a moment more the boats were side by side, and the cordial grasp and the fal- tering and choked voice of welcome told the faithful deser- ter that he was appreciated and& understood. A few minutes sufficed to put Dudley in possession of all the im- portant facts in relation to Ellen's situation, and it was no small gratification to know that she was yet well, and free from any harm save that of the most harrowing anxiety. Long and earnestly did the two friends confer upon their future movements, and their plan, when finally concocted, was one that involved such imminent peril, that the con- currence of their Indian confederates was considered a matter of serious doubt. But they had mistaken the valor of their companions, who, when the details were submitted   THE FRIENDS.         203 to them, responded only by their quiet and expressive ejac- ulation "good!" It would have argued but little forethought on the part of Dudley, if he had entered upon an expedition in which skill must necessarily be his principal reliance, without providifg himself with some of the ordinary resources of strategy. It is well known to the historical reader that the allied army, in their hasty departure from the walls of Fort Stanwix, left behind them, not only their artillery and many of their tents, but a large portion of their stores and camp equipage. It was an easy matter for Dudley to procure apparel from these sources, both of the civilized and savage soldier, which might serve as disguises, if ne- i cessary, for himself and companions, nor had he neg- lected so obvious an aid to his enterprise. To transform the Indians by a change of dress, from the republican Oneidas into the royal Mohawks, was no difficult opera- tion, and Lieut. Dudley, with equal celerity, was con- verted into a private of Sir John Johnson's regiment of American loyalists. Bound on an enterprise involving momentous interests, and conscious that detection would be followed by certain death, the minds of these brave men rose with the emergency, and in one breast at least, that of the generous and daring Dudley, the last and least of the whole catalogue of emotions was that of personal fear. All things being in readiness, the boats slowly and silently approached the shore, taking a direction that would bring them to land a-few rods below the camp. As they drew nigh, the sentinels could be distinctly seen, and the coun- tersign was carefully impressed upon the mind of each of the party. It required no repetition in the ear df the Indians, for the word was "Brant." NI   CHAPTER X. THE FLIGHT. RECLINING, not sleeping, in her guarded tent, the unfor- tunate Ellen passed the slow watches of the night in an agony of apprehension. Each hour diminished her hope, and she knew that another day's flight would probably place her beyond the reach of rescue, and render certain the fearful doom with which she was threatened. She had heard nothing of Dudley since the day of his departure for Fort Dayton, and fears for his safety formed an additional item in her distress. She had not even been able to com- municate with Rogers since the retreat commenced, al- though the faithful sergeant had contrived to be allotted to the same boat which conveyed her, and with two Indians, and one of his fellow privates, constituted its full company. The vessel which had been selected for Ellen was of a fan- ciful construction, and had received from Waldon the name of " the gondola." It was much smaller than the batteau, and was propelled by only two pairs of oars. Waldon himself, fearful perhaps of his captive's reproaches, and knowing the impossibility of her escape, had contented him- self with occupying the boat next preceding in the line. The bustle and stir without at length announced to Ellen the approach of day, and the note of preparation for de- parture fell with dismal forebodings upon her car. She *was immediately in readiness, and although there were yet no signs of light, she pulled aside the canvass door of her tent and looked out. She knew that she was closely  (204)   "1M r .bunli.       ZU0 guarded, but she was not prepared for the uncivil cor mand which at once forbade her egress. A second speaker, in a voice still more gruff, approached the door, and utter- ing some well dissembled words of reproof, contrived to slip a paper into her hands and immediately withdrew. By the faint light of a taper, Ellen, trembling withW excite- ment, perused the following words: "Make every possible delay in leaving your tent and embarking. Minutes are worth millions. Be watchful and discreet." Uttering a hearty ejaculation of thanksgiving for the indefinite hope thus held out to her, she instantly burned the paper, and hastily divesting herself of part of her apparel, retired to bed. By feigning a sleep, sound and difficult to dispel, when summoned to arise, by tardiness in dress and many ingenious resources, she succeeded in faithfully obeying the injunctions of her mysterious visitor. The part to be performed by Dudley's party on obtain- ing entrance into the camp was of the most difficult nature. They were not only to man the boat which was designed for Ellen in their assumed character, but it was necessary in some way to get rid of three of its former crew. Last- ly, and almost equally important was the necessity of de- laying its departure, so that it might be in the rear of the whole line. Success in all these preliminaries was essen- tial to attaining even the threshold of escape. Simulta- neous with the first movements in the camp, they proceeded to take possession of the boat, and Rogers, having in- structed his disguised companions how to simulate as nearly as possible the deportment of its former occupants, stepped upon the shore to await their approach. In the mean time the bustle and stir incident to the breaking up and depar- ture of the camp was rapidly increasing. Many of the ,oats were already filled, but Waldon, who had charge of that division of the flotilla, had not yet arrived. As the Is   ;ZUb       ELLEN"WELLES. two Indians who formed part of the gondola's crew ap- proached, Rogers hastened to meet them, and said: "The light is breaking on the hills, and the deer are al- ready abroad. There will be gold for him who brings game for the pale-faced maiden. Go quickly and meet us an hour hence by yonder bluff." The Indians were ready armed, either for war or the chase, and needed no second bidding to so agreeable a task. Their ideas of discipline were too lax to admit of their ques- tioning the authority of Rogers, and readily signifying their assent, they disappeared in the forest. For his fel- low-soldier, who soon arrived, the sergeant was prepared with an equally ingenious device. "You complained yes- terday," he said, "of illness and fatigue. Mr. Waldon has sent us another oarsman, and you are to go in either of the large batteaux." The fellow, unsuspecting, gladly turned away and joined a crowd who were filling up some of the largest sized boats. Thus far events looked pro- mising, but it was not yet light, and the scrutiny of Wal- don's eye was still to be undergone. It was not until many of the foremost boats had started, and the others were ra- pidly forming in line, that he arrived upon4 the beach, ac- companied by the trembling Ellen. He had been detained in waiting for her and appeared in great ill humor. "I think I will take a seat in your boat this morning, Mr. Rogers," he said. "Our fair ally here exhibits unu- sual alarm, and may need my personal attention." a The gondola draws much water," the sergeant quickly replied, " and rows heavily; but if you choose to take my oar, I can go in one of the batteaux." By no means," said Waldon, laughing, " the day pro- mises to be too warm for that; but keep as near in position as possible, and if any thing goes wrong, I shall be in easy   hailing distance. Hasten now, or we shall be the very last to embark." He handed Ellen to the boat and was about to depart, but suddenly pointing to one of the Oneidas, exclaimed- "How's this, sir? Have you changed your crew, or who is this broad shouldered savage?"Instantly continuing his inspection, before the sergeant could reply, he called out: "A light! quick, bring a light-we have strange visit- ors here." Rogers stood with one foot in the boat and one upon the beach, and Waldoy, standing upon the shore in a stooping posture was peering into the vessel. A thrill of horror shot through the company, and instant detection seemed unavoidable. There was no time for reflection. Dealing a silent but staggering blow upon the bended head of his companion, the sergeant sprang into the boat, and seizing an oar, whispered-"Pull now, for your lives." L  . .                 ....,.....   CHAPTER XI. THE PURSUIT. THE movement had been so instantaneous, the noise was so slight, and the blow upon Waldon so stunning, that nearly a minute elapsed before any intelligible alarm was given. Shouts and execrations were then heard from the shore, with the dash of oars and all the signs of a quick pursuit. Shots were also fired, but the arrowy flightof the boat had already carried it too far into the obscurity that yet rested upon the waters to admit of any distinct aim. Faster and farther, under all the impulse that four strong men, working for their lives, could give, the light gondola sped, skimming the-wave, like a swallow on the wing. But with a speed scarcely inferior, three heavy batteaux, each impelled by a dozen oarsmen, dashed forward in pursuit. The noise of the oars unavoidably revealed the course of the fugitives, and enabled the enemy to keep in their wake, while the numbers of the latter allowing them to relieve each other at the labor of rowing also gave them a. decided advantage. But as the chase was eastward and in a direc- tion opposite to the march of the army, Dudley conjectured that the pursuers, who must have left the flotilla without orders, would not dare to separate themselves far from the main body. The result proved him to be partly correct. The batteaux had proceeded but a few miles 'before they were seen to draw together, and after a short conference, and some change of parties, two of the vessels turned about, and" the third, with about a dozen men, continued the chase. (208)   These, as the increasing light soon showed, were all In- dians but one, who it need scarcely be said was Waldon. The distance that now separated the vessels was about a quarter of a mile, and the vigor with which the pursuers laid to their oars evinced a determination that it should soon be less. Their motion was indeed most alarmingly accelerated, and the interval between the parties was ra- pidly diminishing; but the execrated broad shoulders which had once proved so disastrous, were now at least of essen- tial service. Perceiving the exigency, Wongah, for such was the name of the elder Indian, coolly requested Dudley to surrender his oar to him, and taking the forArd pair, he bent to his task like a Samson beneath the gates of Gaza. The trembling bark seemed rather to fly than sail, and the rearward oarsmen for a while were scarce able to touch the water, so swiftly did it pass from their stroke. All looked on in amazement, and expected momentarily to see the giant's strength give out; but mile after mile was overcome without the least abatement of speed. The very vessel seemed instinct with vitality, and impelled by fear, while the spray fell like rain upon her prow, and the water boiled, hissing in her wake. A glad smile of hope and en- couragement lit up every countenance, for the distance be- tween the vessels had already more than doubled, notwith- standing the utmost efforts of the enemy. In vain did Dudley implore Wongah to spare his strength, lest it might fail altogether. The quiet smile, the calm equable breath- ing, the uniform ponderous motion, told him that there was as little to fear from fatighe in the huge and compact mass of muscles before him, as if it had been some mighty me- chanical machine of levers, wheels and springs. When Lieutenant Dudley had relinquished his oar to the Indian, his change of position brought him for the first time near to Ellen; but the absorbing excitement of the 18 , *i   i 1 tI      ELLEN WELLES. race, and the vigilant oversight now required of him as chief in command, still prevented his disclosing himself. His own tumultuous emotions, and the alternating fears and hopes of Ellen may easily be imagined. She knew nothing, it will be remembered, of the process by which her rescue was to be attempted, and when she found herself once more seated in the dreaded boat she gave up all for lost. The subsequent events, occurring so unexpectedly, were at first entirely inexplicable to her, and although she soon perceived that brave hearts and strong hands were at work for her delivery, she had still no suspicion of Dud- ley's presence. But the temporary sense of relief now ex- perienced by all afforded an opportunity for the lieutenant to make himself known. The light had fully dawned, and as he seized an opportune moment, and turned with a smile of triumph and affection to Ellen, a speechless surprise and joy that knew no utterance pervaded her breast. Alas! that there is no Daguerreotype for the heart! But a sudden ejaculation from the younger Indian, who was looking westward with an earnest gaze, now attracted attention. Turning, he uttered a few words in his native tongue to his companion, and the latter immediately sus- pended his labors and gazed intently in the same direction. "What do the Oneidas see, Mr. Rogers?" exclaimed Dudley from the helm, with ill disguised alarm. Rogers listened a moment to their guttural dialogue, and rising to his feet, peered earnestly across the waters; then turning to the lieutenant, he said in a low voice: " I see nothing myself, but the Lynx says that there are two armed canoes turning yonder -oint, and coming down with the speed of wind." "Is Wongah frightened?" said Dudley, impetuously, turning to the Indian, who was yet leaning upon his oars; "does he think they can overtake us?'"    lIi - i U1OUlU .      J1J  "Wongah does not fear," was the characteristic reply; "but the hawk is swifter than the heron." This figurative allusion to the fleetness of the birchen canoe was not misunderstood, and every eye was now anx- iously strained to catch a glimpse of this new object of alarm. The Indian, meanwhile, had resunred his labors with all his former force, and without the least change of countenance. The canoes were too much in the shade of the shore to be perceptible to unpractised eyes, but the movements of the batteau soon furnished additional proof of their approach. She turned suddenly about, and has- tening to meet her allies, was also soon nearly lost from view in the shadows. What changes took place upon the meeting of the boats could not be discerned, but the large vessel did not return. The canoes, on the contrary, dan- cing like corks upon the wave, were soon seen to emerge from the obscurity, and flashing the sunlight from their dripping oar blades, seemed like distant sea birds pluming their wings for flight. They each contained seven men, of whom, as before, all save one were Indians. It was use- less to disguise the alarm inspired by this new aspect of affairs; for although the pursuers were nearly a mile be- hind, it was apparent to all that their present speed would soon bring them up with the gondola. The latter boat was already tasked to her full capacity, but no human strength could impart to such a vessel the impetus which two pairs of well plied oars gave to the feathery canoe. A hasty con- sultation was held, at which Rogers and the Lynx proposed running for the shore, and trying to make good their es- cape through the forests. Wongah opposed this as fatal, but offered no substitute. He gave his opinion with sto- ical calmness, when called upon, without at all suspending his labors. Dudley spoke last.  "It is idle," he said, "to think of escape through twenty   212  ,      ELLEN WELLES. miles of wilderness, with such a pack of bloodhounds on our track. But there is a small island which cannot be many miles distant. Let us gain that, if we can, and once under cover we can at least keep the fiends at bay until dark, when some means of relief may possibly be found." To this proposition the Indians responded together, with their sententious exclamation "good." "So it is good!" said Rogers, energetically, recovering, despite the danger, a portion of his natural humor; "if the red devils can land under our four rifles, they shall be wel- come to the scalp of Joe Rogers. Pull away, Mr. Lynx, and three cheers for the skipper." Endeavoring thus to arouse his own failing spirits, and those of his companions, the noble hearted sergeant re- sumed his diligent labors at the oar. The refuge referred to by Dudley was a small wooded islet, scarcely forty rods in length, which had attracted his notice on the preceding day. It became visible on rounding a small promontory, but still at the distance of several miles. The pursuers seemed immediately to comprehend the design of the fugi- tives, and the trial became at once which party should first gain the island. There was no way to increase the gondo- la's speed, and all that remained was patiently to watch the chances. Although the canoes were soon within rifle shot, neither party seemed disposed to resort to fire-arms. Waldon felt too sure of success to risk the life of Ellen un- neessarily, and Dudley's company were all actively em- ployed in the management of their boat. For a third of an hour the most perfect silence was preserved in the gon- dola, while every nerve of the oarsmen seemed strained to its utmost tension. The eyes of Ellen wandered inces- santly from boat to boat and forward to the island, mea- suring the rapidly diminishing intervals between each, and resting ocoasionally upon Dudley's countenance, as if they   THE PURSUIT.         213 would read there a solution of her dreadful doubts. At the distance of half a mile from the island, the forward ca- noe was running nearly abreast of the fugitives, about forty rods distant, and making for the northern extremity of the land. There seemed no longer any hope; but at this criti- cal moment a crackling noise was heard, and one of the oar blades of the parallel boat was seen floating astern. The speed of the canoe was sensibly diminished; Wongah's ponderous blows fell with redoubled rapidity upon the water; the gondola shot ahead, and in three minutes touched the shore. 18* v  \^l    YA.   CHAPTER XII. THE ISLAND. DUDLEY'S first movement was to place Ellen in a state of safety, and than to find secure shelter for himself and his companions, whence they could repel the advance of the enemy. All this was but the work of an instant. The crippled vessel had continued to advance with no slight velocity, for she had still two effective oars; but her con- sort had taken the lead, and for a while had threatened to make at least a simultaneous landing with the gondola. 'But when her crew had perceived this to be impracticable, they hastened to retire beyond rifle shot, divining with ready sagacity the designs of the other party. They were, however, too late to avoid the effect of one leaden messen- ger from the weapon of the active sergeant; a sharp yell and a sudden commotion in the boat proclaiming its success. Three more shots were instantly fired, but with no observ- able result. It was far, however, from being the design of the enemy to abandon the pursuit. They felt rather like the sportsman, who, having cornered his game, deliberates only upon the easiest means of despatching it. At a safe distance the vessels came together for conference, which resulted in one of them making a detour about the island, and taling up a position opposite to the other extremity. This movement made it necessary for Dudley to divide his small force; yet so minute was the territory to be defended, that the two divisions of the garrison were not beyond each other's call. It was now fully expected that (214)   ELLEN WELLES.        215 the besiegers would attempt a simultaneous landing on the opposite sides-a course which ordinary courage would certainly have prompted; but they evidently designed some less dangerous expedient. To and fro, like sharks waiting for their prey, through the long, tedious hours of the day, the canoes glided leisurely about, maintaining a close watch upon every part of the coast. It was then, doubtless, for the night that the attack was designed, and it was with sad forebodings that the island prisoners watched the sun beginning to decline from the meridian. But they had not been idle. The moment they became convinced that there was no immediate danger, a consulta- tion was again held to devise means of relief; for, as the enemv were discernible from any part of the coast, and the defenders could easily be summoned to the point of attack, they were no longer confined to any one position. But deliberation seemed of little avail. The calm and unclouded sky foretold'a still and starlight night, and one that would render a secret embarkation and flight nearly impossible; and although the same causes ^yould make the landing of the enemy somewhat hazardous, there could be no longer any doubt that they had determined upon taking the risk. There seemed, indeed, nothing to be done, excepting to await the invasion and sell their lives as dearly as possible. Although compelled to contemplate this fearful issue of all his efforts, Dudley still strove to encourage Ellen with hopes that he himself could no longer entertain. But new events claimed attention. The younger Indian had long been missing from the council, and, on search being made, was found seated beside a pile of bark, which had been freshy stripped from the birchen trees around him, while a quantity of sea-weed, such asis used by the Indians for thread or cord, was also collected at his side. It was with no mwh alarm that Dudley and Rogers viewed these pre-   a216        THE ISLAND. parations, giving indications that their allies were about to desert Ahem. The southern shore was but about two-thirds of a mile distant, and a very small canoe might possibly be constructed before night, capable of transporting one or two persons across, before they could be overtaken from the more remote starting points of the enemy. Dudley hastened to interrogate the Indian as to his designs. "The Lynx is not a rat," was the quiet reply, & to be beaten to death in a trap." "The Lynx is a coward to desert his friends," rejoined Dudley, angrily. "What does Wongah say?" "Wongah will stay," was the quick reply. The lieutenant grasped the hand of the Indian with emo- tion, and by that gesture, and by a grateful look alone, expressed his thanks. Scorning to expostulate with the other, he was about to turn contemptuously away, when the low, soft voice of the youth was heard. Dudley turned to listen, but the words were addressed to Wongah, and being in the Oneida tongue, were too rapidly uttered to admit of his comprehending the meaning. He saw, however, that a smile of merriment was on'the face of the young Indian, and that his whole countenance was lit up with a look of ingenuousness and fidelity that could not be mistaken. Wongah slowly repeated the substance of the words to Dud- ley in broken English, and the latter, with extended hands, rushed to his young ally, and having begged pardon for his late unworthy suspicions, sat down to assist him at his task. Wongah also lent his aid, and the work went rapidly forward. The Lynx, like many of his race, had'a spice of humor in his composition that no danger could wholly suppress.   CHAPTER XIII THE DECOY. To construct a canoe of any considerable burthen or capacity in so short a time, and under so many disadvan- tages, was of course impossible. To make a frail machine for the purpose of strategy, yet capable of attaining some temporary speed, although a far easier undertaking, still required no small amount of labor. The sun went down before the task was finished, although every hand was em- ployed upon it, not excepting those of the gentle Ellen. If falling tears could have cemented the bark, the work would have been sooner done. The project which engrossed such general attention will be best described, as yet, by the his- tory of its progress. When the boat was completed, even to its rude but effective oars, the ignenuity of the Indians was yet to be more fully displayed. Effigies of every individual of the company, excepting the Lynx, was imme- diately formed, and with a fidelity both astonishing and ludicrous. The hats and upper garments of the men, and the bonnet and shawl ol Ellen, were of course made use of, while 'the absent bodied : ere supplied by sticks and branches of trees, artfully arranged. The slight and erect form of Dudley, the graceful bust of Ellen, the short and robust sergeant, and the broad-shouldered Wongah, with his scant mantle, were all there, and with a celerity of construction that seemed the work of magic. In this boat, with these his imaginary companions, the Lynx was to start for the southern shore, with a view to entice the (217)   218      i  ELLEN. WELLES. enemy to a distance from the island. If he were successful in this artifice, the remainder of the party were at once to embark in the gondola, and hoped to obtain a sufficient start before the ruse was discovered to effect their escape. The Indian, when he gained the shore, if he succeeded in doing so, would! make the best of his way through the wilderness to the fort. Where the general-hazard was so imminent, it was use- less, perhaps, to calculate degrees of danger; yet none could refrain from feeling as if an extraordinary peril was devolved upon the generous savage. The chance of his being overtaken before he could reach the shore was so great, that it seemed as if he was devoting himself to im- mediate death for his associates. He manifested, however, not the least fear, and made all his preparations with a coolness that displayed the utmost presence of mind. "The Mt iawks will chase shadows," he said, with a low laugh; "their braves will shoot at blankets." Rogers, with well meant, but  needless assiduity, cautioned him as to his trail in the forest, if he was so for- tunate as to reach it, reminding him that a detachment of the enemy might follow him there. The Indian smiled scornfully as he replied- "Let them track the swallows; the Lynx leaves no trail." The night proved, as had been anticipated, still and starlight; and when the last ray of twilight had disap- peared, the boat with its phantom crew was silently launched, ready for departure, on the first movement of the foe. The gondola, in the mean time, had b!en trans- ported across the island to the northeastern shore, and was also in readiness. They had not long to wait. Recum- bent on the beach, his eyes brought nearly on a level with the horizon, the 'Lynx himself was the first to detect the   THE DECOY.         Zi motion of the enemy. Lingering for a few minutes, that he might make more certain of being discovered, he leapt into his boat and pulled quickly from the shore. The flight of the prisoners being anticipated, he was, of course, almost instantly perceived. A long, shrill yell announced the discovery from one boat to the other, and the race im- mediately commenced. But although tremblingly anxious for the fate of their companion, the remainder of the party had but little time to watch the chase. The moment that the changed position of the enemy seemed to render it safe, they also embarked, and, taking at first a northerly direc- tion until they had obtained a considerable offing, they changed their course and pulled rapidly down the lake. The race was for life, and the exertion was proportionate. Not a word was spoken. All felt conscious that in a very short time the ru'se would be discovered. The distance to the eastern extremity of the lake was about eight miles, and from that point to the fort about fifteen. Although this latter course could be chiefly accomplished by means of the inlet, the navigation of that stream was difficult, and would give a vast advantage to the pursuers. A route through the forest was therefore resolved upon, from some point near the head of the lake, if they should succeed in safely reaching that point. About ten minutes had elapsed in silence, when a loud and prolonged yell of many voices was heard from the di- rection of the enemy. The oarsmen paused to listen, and a momentary shudder pervaded every breast, as the probable fate of their companion was contemplated. "'Tis the scalp-halloo of the Mohawks," said Rogers, solemnly; "our friend is dead." All turned to Wongah for hi; opinion; but the Indian, with one finger raised to enjoin silence, still remained lis- tening. At that moment the well known war-cry of the  :ZU        ELLEN WELLES. Oneidas rang in one long shrill note across the silent waters, waking the slumbering echoes with the sound. "The Lynx is safe!" said the old man, as he again bent energetically to his task. A single shot was all the addi- tional noise that was heard, and they now knew that the foe was in swift pursuit of themselves. The succeeding hour, fleet winged as it may have been to some, was a long age of suspense to the fugitives. Keeping close to the land, they held their course with unabated speed, until at length the converging shores announced that they were near their intended place of debarkation. But hope seemed only to tantalize and mock them; for at this mo- ment a fiendish shout from the enemy announced that they were again discovered. The stout heart of Dudley, the merry sergeant, and even the stoical Wongah, seemed now to despair, while the terrified and exhausted Ellen fell sense- less in the boat. They did indeed hasten toward the land, but it was with no well defined hope of either defence or escape. Bloodhounds might possibly have been eluded, but to avoid the pursuit of a dozen Mohawks through such a wilderness was impossible. While Dudley and Rogers lifted the lifeless form of Ellen from the vessel, another wild yell reached their ears, and the enemy were distinctly seen making for the shore, at a point about sixty rods be- low. Still bearing their beauteous burden, the young men hastened up the bank and rushed wildly and aimlessly through the woods. But an unseen hand was guiding their : steps. The rattling of a bayonet, and the quick sharp call of a sentinel announced, what the next moment's glance confirmed, that they were within the lines of a military en- campment. Stunned by the sudden reaction of his feel- ings, Dudley scarcely found words to announce his name and rank; having done which, he demanded to be con- ducted forthwith-to the commander's tent. He knew that   he was in an American camp, but was scarcely prepared for so great a delight as finding himself in the immediate presence of Col. Willett, who was on his return from a pure suit of St. Leger. It was yet early in the night, and the officers had not retired to rest. Having hastily given in- formation of the approach of his pursuers, orders were in- mediately issued for extinguishing the lights of the camp and calling in the sentinels. Three detachments of fifty men each were detailed to take up positions, with short in- tervals between, stretching transversely from the shore. The utmost silence was preserved, and Waldon and the Mohawks rushed heedlessly into the trap. Their first no- tice of danger was the command to fire, and simultaneous with the sound, eight of the band, including their vindictive and treacherous leader, lay stretched upon the ground. The remainder, with one or two exceptions, were taken prisoners. On Dudley, the more agreeable task had devolved of restoring Ellen to animation, and of witnessing the first overpowering sense of delight which the knowledge of their changed fortunes created. How amply his own perils and privations were repaid, by the fiuition of that affection which only woman's heart can bestow, need scarcely be said. On the ensuing day, Col. Willett returned with his de- tachment to the fort, where the Lynx had already safely arrived. He related with much minuteness the cautious approach of his pursuers to his deserted vessel upon the shore, and their successful capture of its non-combatant crew, concluding by asserting with grave irony that "the Mohawks were great warriors." Himself and the aged Wongah, like most of the Oneidas, ever continued faithful to the republican cause, and lived to receive many proofs of the esteem and gratitude of Dudley and Ellen. 19   Dwn        1jI IELLN W EULLES. The tide of war, during the remaining period of the Revolution, rolled chiefly in a direction remote from the county of Tyron, but neither Dudley or Rogers were suf- ficiently enamored of martial glory to follow its retiring banners. Yet in those minor, but sanguinary struggles, which long convulsed the beautiful valley of the Mohawk, they continued among the most valiant defenders of their native soil, receiving the rich meed of their country's ap- probation, and the still richer reward of an approving con- science. THE END. /!!   BOOKS FOR EVERYBODY, AT GREATLY REDUCED RATES. PUBLISHED AND FOR SALE BY T. B. PETERSON,  No.  102  Chestnut   Street,  Philadelphia. IN THS CATALOGUE WILL BE FOUND THE LATEST PUBLICATIONS BY THE MOST POPULAR & CELEBRATED WRITERS IN THE WORLD. AMONG WHICH WILL BE FOUND SIR E. L. BULWER'S, O. P. R. JAMWR'S, ETr,r N   PIC  iRTING'S, CAPTAIN MARRYATT'S, MRS. GREY'S, T. S. .ARTlsUst, CRARtr LEVER'S, ALEXANDRE DUMAS', W. WARRISON AINSWORTHS, DUIRAItI'S, THACKERAY'S, SAMUEL WARREN'S, wMRRON BENNETT'S, GEORGE LIPPARD'S, JEiNAY COCKTON'S, EUGENE SUE'S, CURRER BELL'S, AND ALL THE OITk. BEST AUTHORS OF THE DAY, TOO NUMEROUS TO MENTION. Br The best way is to look through the Catalogue, and see what is in it. You will be amply repaid for your trouble. SPECIAL NOTICE TO EVERYBODY.-Any person whatever in this country, wishing any of the works in this catalogue, on remitting the price for the same, in a letter, post-paid, directed to the Publisher,No. 102 Chestnut Street, Philadelphia, shall have them sent by return of mail, to any place in the United States, free of postage. This is a splendid offer, as any one can get books to the most remote place in the courrtry, for the regular price sold in the large cities, free of postage, on sending for the ones they wish. DyAll orders thankfully received and filled with despatch, and sent by return of mail, or express, or stage, or in any other way the person ordering may direct. Booksellers, News Agents, Pedlars, and all others supplied with any Books, Magazines, etc., at the lowest rates. tQ Any Book published in this country can be had here. O?PAgents, Pedlars, Canvassers, Booksellers, News Agents, &c., through- out the country, who wish to make money on a small capital, would do well to address the undersigned, who will furnish a complete outfit for a compara- tively small amount. Send by all means, to the Cheap Book, Newspaper, and Magazine Establishment of T. B. riatKOSON, No. 102 Chestnut Street, Philadelphia.    T. B. PETERSON, No. 102 Chestnut Street, Philadelphia, HAS JUST PUBLISHED AND FOR SALE, STEREOTYE EDITIONS OF THE FOLLOWING WORKS, Which will be found to be the Best and Latest Publications, by the Most Popular Writers in the World. THE TRADE SUPPLIED AT THE LOWEST RATES, AND ALL qORDERS PROMPTLY ATTENDED TO. A' Every wors published in this Country for Sale here, either at Wholesale or Retail. ELLEN PICKERING'S NOVELS. Either of which can be had separately. Price 25 cents each, or any five of them for One Dollar. They are printed on the finest white paper, and each forms one large octavo volume, complete in itself; neatly bound in a strong paper cover. THE ORPHAN NIECE.        THE PRINCE AND KATE WALSINGIIAM.          THE PEDLER. THE POOR COUSIN.         THE MERCHANT'S EiLLEN WAREHAM.           DAUGHTER.    p THE GRUMBLER.           THE HEIRESS. THE QUIET HUSBAND.        I'HE FRIGHT. WHO SHALL BE HEIR.        NAN DARRELL. 'THE SECRET FOE.         THE SQUIRE. AGNES SERLE.           THlE EXPECTANT. CAPTAIN MARRYATT'S WORKS. Either of which can be had separately. Price of all exLept the two last are 25 rents eah, or any five of them for One Dollar. They are printed on the finest white paper, and each forms one large octavo volume, complete in itself. PETER WMPLE.       NEWTON   FORSTER. JACOB FAITHFUL. JAPHET IN SEARCH OF A FATHER. THE PHANTOM SHP. MDSHPMAN EASY. THE PACHA OF1 MANY TALES. THE KING'S OWN. THE PIRATE AND THREE CUT'I'ERS. THE NAVAL OFFlICER. SNARLEYYOW, or the Dog Fiend. PERCIVAL KEENE. 200pages. Price Fifty cents. POOR JACK. 200 pages. Price Fifty cents. SEA KING. 903 pages. Price Fifty cents. VALERIE. His last Novel. Price Fiftycents. T. S. ARTHUR'S WORKS. Either of which can he had septarately. Price 25 cents each. or any five of them for One Dollar. They are the most mo ai. popular and entertaining in the world There are no better books to place in the hands of tre young. All will-profit by them. TIlE DIVORCED WIPE.     THE ORPHAN (HLPREIV. THE BANKER'S WIFE.     THE DEBTOR'S DAUGHTnER.  IPRIDE AND PRUDENCE.    INSUBORDINATION. CECILIA HOWARD.       LUCY SANDPF(OD. THE0 BROKEN PROMSE.    AGNEqS, or the Possessed. "OVEi N A COTTAGE.     THE TWO BRIDES. "OVE0] iN HGH -LIP]FE.   THE IRON RUL-E THE TWO MERCHAINTS.     LADY AT HHOlE.       X   I    T. B. PETERSON'S LIST OF PUBLICATIONS.               3 MRS. GREY'S NOVELS. Either of which can be had separately. Price 25 cents each, or any five of them for One Dollar. They are printed on ihe lnest white paper, and each forms one large octavo volume, complete in itself, neatly bound in a strong paper cover. THE GIPSY'S DAUGHTER. THE BELLE O1' THE FAMLY. SYBIL LENNARD. A Record        Jf Woman's Life. THE DUKE AND THE COU3SIN. THE LITTLE WIFE. THE MAN(EUVRING MOTHER. "ENA CAMERON, or the Four Sisters. THE BARONET'S DAUGHTERS. THf YOUNG PRIMA DONNA. THE OLD DOWEiR HOUSE. HYACINTHE, OlR THE CONTRAST. ALICE SEYMOUR.             HARRY MONK. MARY SE!AHAiI. 250 Pages. Price Fifty cents. ALEXANDER DUMAS' WORKS. The Iron   Mask, or the Feats and Aflventures of Raoul de Bragelonne. Being the conclusion of "The Three Guardsmen," "Twenty Years After," and "Bragelonne." By Alexandre Dumas. Complete in two large volumes, of 420 octavo pages, with beautifully Illustrated Covers, Portraits, and Engravings. Price One Dollar. Louise La Valllere; or the Second Series and Final End of the "Iron Mask." By Aiexandre Dumas. This work is the finul end of "The Three Guardsmen," "Twenty Years After," "Bragelonne," and "The Iron Mask," and is of far more interesting and absorbing interest, than any of its predecessors. Complete in two large octavo volumes of over 400 pages, printed on the best of paper, beauti- fully illustrated. It also contains correct Portraits of : Louise L a Valliere," and "The Hero of the Iron Mask." Price for the entire work, One Dollar. The Memoirs ot a Physician; or the Secret History of Louis the Fifteenth. By Alexandre Dumas. It is beautifully embellished with thirty engravings, which illustrates the principal scenes and characters of the different hero- ines throughout the work. Complete in two large octavo volumes. Price Fifty cents a volume. The Queen's Necklaces or the Secret' History of the Court of Louis the Sixteenlth. A Sequel tothe Memoirsofa Physician. By Alexandre Dumas. It is beautifully Illustrated with portraits of the heroines of the work. Complete in two large octavo volumes of over 400 pages. Price Fifty cents a volume. Six Years Later ; or the Taking of the Bastile. By Alexandre Dumas. Being the continuation and final conclusion of "The Queeon Necklace; or the Secret Iistory of the Court of Louis the Sixteenth," and "M emoirs of a Physician." Comn plete in two large octavo volumes. Price One Dollar. Sketches in France.    By Ale"adre Dumas. "It is as good a book as Thack- eray's Sketches in Ireland." Dumas never wrote a better book. It is the most delightful book of the season. Price Fifty cents. Diana of Meridor; The Lady of Monsoreau; or France in the Six- teenth Oentury. By Alexandre Dumas. An Historical Romance. Complete in two large octavo volumes of 538 pages, printed on the finest white paper, wi'h numerous illustrative engravings. Price One Dollar.    The Reign of Terror; Genevieve, or the Chevalier of the Maison Rouge. By Alexandre Iumas.* An Historical Romance of the French Revolu:ion. Complete in one large octavo volume of over 200 pages, printed on the finest white paler, with numerous illustrative engravings. Price for the entire work, PIfty enta. Ithhel of Bavaria ; or the Chronicles of France for thr tlAno arle the ^lxsth. Complete in one fine octavo volume of 211 pages, printed oh the fiant whhitqmr r Price Fifty cents. Edmond Dantes. Being the Sequel to Dumas' celebrated novel of thOO ft    t Monte Cristo. With elegant illustrations. Complete in one large octavo volm aOf over 200 pages. Price Fifty cents. =                   =w===1E   j-4   T. B. PETERSON'S LIST OF PUBLICATIONS. CHARLES LEVER'S NOVELS. Charles O'IMalley, the Irish Dragoon. By Charles Lever. Complete in one large oKtavo volumve of 324 pages. Price Fifty cents; or handsomely bound in one volume, illustrated. Price One Dollar. The Kllnght of Gwynne. A tale of the time of the Union. By Charles Lever. Complete in one fine octavo voiume of 226 pages, beautifully illustrated, and printed on the finest white paper. Price Fifty cents; or handsomely bound in one volume, illustrated. Price One Dollar. Jack  Hinton, the Guardsman. By Charles Lever. Complete in one large octavo v lume of 400 pages, printed on fine white paper, Price Fifty cents; or hand- somely bound in one volume, illustrated. Price One Dollar. Tom  Burke of Ours. By Charles Lever. Complete in one large octavo volume of 300 pages, printed from new type and on the finest paper. Price Fifty cents; or handsomely bound in one volume, illustrated./Price One Dollar. Arthur O'Leary. By Charles Lever. Complete in one large octavo volume of 220 pages, full of beautiful illustrations, and printed in the best style. Price Fifty cents; or handsomely bound in one-volume, illustrated. Price One Dollar. Kate O'Donoghue. A Tale of Ireland. By Charles Lever. Complete in one large octavo volume of 140 pages, beautifully illustrated, and printed on the finest white paper. Price 50 cents: or handsomely bound in one volume, illustrated Price Seventy-five cents. Horace Templeton. By Charles Lever. This is Lever's New Book, and equal to his best. Comnplete in one large octavo volume of 212 pages, and printed on the best of white paper. Price Fifty cents; or handscmely bound in one volume, illus- trated. Price One Dollar. Harry Lorrequer. By Charles Lever, author of the above seven works. Con. plete in one octavo volume of 402 pages, printed from large new type, and on the finest paper. Price Fifty cents; or handsomely bound in one volume, illustrated Price One Dollar. W. HARRISON AINSWORTH'S WORKS. The Illustrated   Tower of London. By William Harrison Ainsworth With 100 splendid engravings. It is beyond all doubt one of the most interesting works ever published in the known world, and can be read and re-read with pleasure and satisfaction by every body. We advise all persons to get it and read it, for there is much to learn and valuable information to be gained from its pages, which cannot be obtained in any other work published in the known world. Two vqlumes, octavo. Price for the complete work, One Dollar; or handsomely b)und, for $1 50. Pictorial Life and Adventures of Jack Sheppard, the most noted burglar, robber, and jail breaker, that ever lived. By Williama Harrisos Ainsworth. Embellished with Thirty-nine, full page, spirited Illustrations. Designed and en- graved in the finest style of art, by George Cruikshank. Esq., of London. Price 50 cts. Pictorial Life and Adventures of Guy Fawkes, The Chief of the Gunpowder Treason. By William liarrison Ainsworth. The Bloody Tower, etc. Illustrated. 200 pages. Price Fifty cents. ,The Pilcorial Old St. Paul's. By William Harriso Ainsworth. Fjll of Illustrations. Price Fifty cents. Mysteries of the Court of 0Queen Anne. By William Harrison Aius- worth. 142 pages. Price 25 cents. Illustrated Life of Dick Turpin, the Highwayman, Burglar, Murderer, etc. Price 25 cents. Life of Harry Thomas, the Wsstern Burglar and Mirderer. Full of Engra- vings. Price 25 cents. Illustrated  Life and   Adventures of the Desperadoes of the New   World. Price 25 cents. Life and Adventures of Ninon De L'Enclos, with her Letters or- .eve, Courtship and Marriage. Price 25 centls. The Pictorial Newgate Cal, ndarl or the Chronicles of Crime. Beautifully illustrated with Fifteen Engravings. 252 pages. Price Fifty cents.   T. B. PETERSON'S LIST OF PUBLICATIONS.               5 GEORGE LIPPARD'S WORKS. Washington and His Generals; or, Legends of the American Revolution. Complete in two arge octavo volumes of 538 pages, printed on the finest white paper. Price for the entire work, One Dollar. The Quaker Cit. y   or the Monks of Monk Hall. A R mancee of Phi- ladelphia Life, Mystery and Crime Illustrated with numerous Engravings. Com- plete in two large octavo volumes of 500 pages. Price for the entire work, One Dollar. The Ladye of Albarone; or the Poison Goblet. A Romance of the Dark Ages. ILippard's Last Work. Compiete in one large octavo volume of 268 pages. Price Fifty cents. v Paul Ardenheim; the Monk of Wissahikon. A Romance of the Revolution. Illustrated with numerous engravings. Complete in two large octavo volumes, of nearly 600 pages. Price One Dollar, Blanche of Brandywine      or September the Eleventh, 1777. A Romance of the Poetry, Legends, and History of the Battle of Brandywine. It makes a large octavo volume of 350 pages, printed from new type, and on the finest white paper. Price for the complete work, 75 cents. Legends of Mexico: or Battles of General Zachary Taylor, late President of the United States. Complete in one octavo volume of A28 pages. Price 25 cents. The Nazarene; or the Last of the W'ashingtone. A Revelation of Philadelphia, New York, and Washington, in the year 1844. Complete in one volume Price 50 cents. Bel of Prairie Eden:. A Romance of Mexico. Price 25 cents. Professor LIEBIG'S Works on Chemistry. Agricultural Chemistry. Chemistry in its application to Agriculture and Physiology. 135 pages. Price 25 cents. Animal Chemistry. Chemistry in its application to Physiology and Pathology "1 pages. Price 25 cents. Familiar Letters on Chemistry, and its relations to Commerce, Physiology and Agriculture. The Potato Disease. Researches into the motion of the Juices in the Animal Body. Chemistry and Physics in Relation to Phy iology         and Pa- thology. T. B. PET ERSON also publishes a complete edition of Professor Liebih's works on Chemistry, comprising the whole of the above. They are bound in one large royal octavo volume. in Muelin gilt. Price for the complete works bound in one volume One Dollar and Fifty cents. FRENCH, GERMAN, SPANISH, LATIN & ITALIAN LANGUAGES. Any person unacquainted with either of these lanzigages. can, with the aid of these works, be enabled to read. write and s peak the language of either. without the aid of a teacher. or any oral instruction whatever, provided they pay strict attention to the in- structions lad down in each book. and that nothing Phall be passed over, without a thorourh investigation of the subject it involves: by doing which, they will be able to speak, read or write either language, at their will and pleasure. Spanish Without a Master. I Four Easy Lessons. French Without a Master. In Six Easy Lessons Italian Without a Master. In Five Easy Lessons. German Without a Master. In Six Easy Lessons. Latin Without a Master. In Six Easy Lessons. Price of either of the above Works. separate, 25 cents--cr the whole five may be had for One Dollar. They can be sent by mail to any part of the United States for about four cents each. by   6   'T. Be PETERSON'S LIST OF PUBLICATION8. B. D'ISRAELI'S NOVELS. Vivian Gre y. By B. D'Ipraeli, M. P. Complete in one large octave volume of 225 pagaes. Price bifttv cents. The Young Dutke: or the Younger Days of aeorge the Fourth. By B. D'Israeli, M. P. oue oclavo volume, 154 pages. Price 37Y2 cents. Venetia: or Lord Byron and his Daughter. By B. D'Israeli, M. P. Complete in one octavo volume of 154 pages. Price Fifty cents. Henrietta Temple. A Love Story. By B. D'Israeli, M. P. One volume,octavo, Price 50 cents. Contarini Fleming. An Autobiography. By B. D'Israeli, M. P. One volume, octavo. Price 37 cents. Miriam  Alroy. A Romance of the Twelfth Century. By B. DIsraeli, M. P. One volume octavo. Price 37Y/ cents. EUGENE' SUE'S NOVELS. The Mysteries of Paris ; and Gerolstein, the Sequel to it. By Eugene Sue, author oftlhe ( Walndering Jew," and the greatest work ever written. Complete in two volumes, octavo, each 50 cents. The Illustrated Wandering Jew. By Eugene Sue. With 87 large illup trations. Two volumes, each o50 cents. The Fenmale Bluebeard ; or, the Woman with many Husbands. By Eugene  Sue. 135 pages. Price 25 cents. First Love. A Story of the Heart. By Eugene Sue. 114 pages. Price 25 cents. Temptation. A Novel. By Eugene Sue. Illustrated. Price 25 cents. The Salamander. A Tale of the Sea. By Eugene Sue. Price 25 cents. Raoul de Snrville $ or, the Times of Napoleon Bonaparte in 1810. 25 cents. Works by the Best and Most Popular Authors. The Cabln and Parlor; or, Slaves and Masters. A true history of "NOlRTl AND SOUTH." By J. Thornton Randolph. This book is fully equal in point of interest to "Uncle Tom's Cabin." 336 pages. Beautifully illustrated from original designs drawn by Stephens. Price Fifty cents in paper covers; or a finer edition, printed on thicker and better paper, and handsomely bound in muslin, gilt, is published for One Dollar. Lifeo in the South. A companion to "Uncle Tom's Cabin." By 0. 1. Wiley. Beautifully illustrated from original designs by Darley. Price Fifty cents. Valentine Vox, the Ventriloquist. By Henry Cockton. 317 pages. Price 50 .ts. Sketehes In Ireland. By William M. Thackeray, author of "Vanity Fair," - History of I'endennis," etc. It is equal in every respect to "Vanity Fair." Price 50 .ets. he Parricide    or the Youth's Career in Crime. By G. W. M. Reynolds. Illus- trated., Price 50 cents. i ren Tshousand a Year. By the author of a "Diary of a London Physician." 432 pages. Price 50 cents. Firsat and True Love- A True Love Story. By George Sand, author of "Con- suelo," "Indiana," etc. It is one of the most charming and interesting works ever published. Full of Engravings. Price 50 cents. Cruising In the Last War. A Naval Story of the War of 1812. First and Second Heries. Being the complete work, unabridged. By Charles J. Peterson. 228 octavo pages. Price 50 cents. The  Iob Capt and Other 1ales. By Mrs. Carolne Lee Hentz, author of ' Linda," a* Retta," etc. Price 50 cents. Wife in Paris. By 44. W. M. Reynolds, author of "Life in London," etc. Full of Engravings. I'rice 37y1 cents. W Z,*    T. B. PETERSON'S LIST OF PUBLICATIONS.               7 The Forged Will.    By Emerson Bennett, author of "Viola." "Clara MToranld," "Bride of the Wilderness." "Pioneer's Daughter," "Kate Clarendon," 'i Walde- Warren," etc. This celebrated and beautiiful work is published complete in one large volume, of over 300 pages, paper cover, pric e 50 cents; or the work is hnndPom,.ly bound in one volume, cloth, gilt, price $1 00. One hundred thousand copies of the Forged Will will be sold in a short time, and-it will have a run and popularity second only to Uncle Tom's Cabin. The Press everywhere are unanimoqin its praise, as being one of the most powerful written works in the language. Thle Roman    Traitor; or, The Days of Cataline       and Cicero. By Ilenry William Herbert, author of 1 Cromwell," "The Brothers,/' etc. This is one of the most powerful Roman stories in the English language, sand is of itself sufficient to stamp the writer as a powerful man. The dark intrigues of the days which Caesar, Sallust, and Cicero made illustrious; when Cataline defied and almost defeated the Senate; when the plots which ultimately overthrew the Roman Itepublic were being formed. are described in a masterly manner. The book deserves a promi- nent position by the side of the. great Bdluim Clttatinarium of Sallust. and if we mistake not, will not fail to occupy a prominent place among those produced in America. Thif splendid work is published complete in two large volumes, of ,ver 2.250 pages each, opaper cover, price 50 cents a volume, or the whole work is hand- somely bound in one volume. cloth, price One Dollar and Twenty-five cents. Countess de Charny ; or, The Fall of the French Monarchy.- ly.,Alexander Dumas. This work is the final conclusion of the a1 Memoirs of a I'hy- sician," "The Queen's Necklace," and *"Six Years Later, or Taking of the Bastile." All persons who have not read Dumas in this, his greatest and most instructive pro- duction, should begin at once, and no pleannre will be found so agreeable, and nothing in novel form so useful and absorbing. Complete in two volumes, beauti- fully illustrated. Price $1 00. Wild Oats sown Abroad ; or, On and Off Soundings. IBy a gentle- man of leisure. It is the Private Journal of a Gentleman of Leisure and Education, and of a highly cultivated mind, in making the tour of Europe. Whoever buys the book and reads the opening chapter, we venture to say, would not part with it for ten times its cost, if he could not procure another. It is having a sale unprecedented in the annals of literature, for nothing equal to it in spiciness, vivacity, and real scenes and observations in daily travel, has ever appeared from the press. Complete in one volume, price 50 cents in paper cover, or 75 cents in cloth, gilt. Percy Eflnghain. By Henry Cockton, author of "Valentine Vox, the Ventrilo- quist," complete in one large octavo volume, price 50 cents. American Pocket Library of Useful Knowledge. New and en- larged edition, with numerous engravings. Twenty thousaud copies sold. Price 50 cents a copy only. We have never seen a volume embracing anything like the same quantity of useful matter. The work is really a treasure, and should speedily find its way into every family. It also contains a large and entirely new Map of the United. States, with full page Portraits of the Presidents of the United States, from Washington until the present time, executed in the finest style of the art. Life and Adventures of Arthur Spring, the murderer of Mrs. Ellen Lynch and Mrs. lionora Shaw, with a complete history of his life and misdeeds, from the time of his birth until he was hung, illustrated with portraits. Price 25 cents. Cadet of Temperance     being a complete collection of Dialogues, Scenes, Re, citations, Songs, Odes, etc., designed for the use of Sections in their public and private exhibitions. By James Knorr. Every child in the country should have it. Price 25 cents a copy in paper cover, or 371/ cents in cloth, gilt. Henry Clay.    Nagle's Correct, full-length, Mezzotinto Portrait and only true likeness ever published of the distinguished Statesman. Engraved by Sartain. Price $1 00 a copy only. Size, 22 by 30 inches. Originally sold at $5 00 a copy. The Miiser's Heir ; or The Young Millionaire. A story of a Guardian and his Ward. A Prize Novel. By P. H. Myers, author of the "Emigrant Squire." Price 50 cents in paper cover, or 75 cents iu cloth, gilt. Siege of Londonderry. A History of the Siege of Londonderry, and defence of Enniskillen, in 1688 and 1t89, by the Rev. John Graham. Price 37 cents. Rev. Albert Barnes on the Maine Liquor Law. The Throne of Iniquity; or sustaining Evil by Law. A discourse in behalf of a law pro- hibiting the traffic in intoxicating drinks. Price 12/ cents. Woman.' Discourse on Woman. Her spheres dutiesp etc. By Lucretia Mott. Price 12'2 cents. Victims of Amusements. by Martha Clark, and dedicated lIythe author to the Sabbath Schools of the land. One volume, cloth, gilt. Price 3712 cents. Euchre. The Game of Euchre and its Laws. By a member of a Euchre Club of Philadelphia of Thirty Years standing. Price 12V1 cents.   8   T. B. PETERSON'S LIST OF PUBLICATIONS. Salathiel; or the Wandering Jew. By Rev. George Crly. Price 50 et Llorente's History of the Inquisition in Spain. Only edition        b- lished in this Country. Price Fifty cents: or handsomely bound in mi..lu, gilt, Seventy-five cents. Dr. Ilollick9s Anatomy and Physiology, with a large dissected plate of the Human Figure, colored to Life. By the celebrated Dr. Hollick, author of "The True Art of Healing the Sick," ' Origin of Life," etc. , Price One Dollar. Mysteries of Three Cities. Boston, New York, and Philadelphia. By A. J. II. Dugaune. 200 pages. Price 50 cents. Red Indians of Newfoundland. A beautifully illustrated Indian Story, by the author of "' Prairie Bird." Price 50 cents. Harris's Adventures in Africa. This book is a rich treat. Two volumes. Price $1 00, or handsomely bound, $1 50. Indi ann. ly George Sanr, author of"First and True Love," etc. A very bewitching and interesting work. 258 pages. Price 50 cents. The Petrel; or Love on the Ocean. A sea novel equal to the beAt, by Admiral Fisher. 200 pages. Price 50 cents. Aristocracy, or Life among the Upper Ten. A true novel of fashionable life. By J. A. NuUes, Esq. Price 50 cents. Mormonism    Exposed. Full of Engravings, and Portraits of the Twelve Apos. ties. Price 121 cents. Genevra t  or the History of a Portrait. By Miss Fairfield, one of the best Writers in America. 200 pages. Price 50 cents. Illustrated   Life  and  Adventures   of Don   Quixotte   de La Mancha, and his Squire Sancho Panza, revised and'corrected, with all the original notes. 300 pages. Price 50 cents; or handsomely bound, One Dollar. Tankee Yarns and Yankee Letters. By Sam Slick, alias Judge Hali- burton. Pri(e 50 cents. Wild Sports in the West. By W. H. Maxwell, author of "Dark Lady of Doona." Price 50 cents. The Romish Confessional. By M. Michelet. 300 pages. Price 50 cents. Dr. Berg's Answer lo Archbishop Hughes. Price 12         cents. Dr. Berge,   Lecture on the Jesuits. Price 12% cents. Flirtations in America; or High      Life in  New  York. A capital book. 285 pages. Price 50 cents. The Lady's Work Table Book. Illustrated. A work every Lady should possess. Price 50 cents, in paper; or beautifully bound in crimsn gilt. for 75 cents. The Coquette. One of the best books ever written. One olume, octavo, ovel 200 pages Price 50 cents. Odd Fellowship Exposed. With all the Signs, Grips, Pass-words, etc. Illu,.- strated. Price 12/2 cents. The Life and Death of the Rev. John N. Mafit; with his I'ortrait. Price 12/ cents. The Necronmancer. A Romance of the times of Henry the Eighth. By 0. W. M. Reynolds. Two volumes. Price Seventy-five cents. Pictorial Life and Adventures or Davy Crockett. Written by himself. Embellished wilh/spirited and beautiful illustrations. Price 50 cents. Ugly EB  e; or, the Neglec1ed One, and Pet Beauty, and othes Tales.* By Mrs. Caroline Lee- entz, author of "' Mob Cap," etc. Price 50 Cents. The Emigrant Squire. By the author of "Bell Brandon." This has just been completed in the Dollar Newspaper, where it has been very popular. Price 25 cents. Clara Moreland; or, Adventures in the Par South West.           Bv Emerson Hennett, author of "Prairie Flower," "Viola," etc. This has been appear. ing in the columns of the Saturday Evening Post for the last twelve weeks, where it has proved to be one of the most popular and powerful nouvellettes ever written in America. :336 pages. Price 50 cents in pfper cover, or $1 in cloth, gilt, illustraited. ;  - A* . . . ' I   T. B. PETIESON'S LIST OF PUBLICATIONS.               9 EMERSON BENNETT'S BOOKS. Viola  or, Adventures in the Far South-West. By Emerson Bennett, This has been appearing in the columns of the Saturday Evening Post for the last twelve weeks, where it has proved to be one of the most popular and powerful nouvellettes ever written in America. Price 50 cents in paper cover, or 75 cents in cloth, gilt. Clara Moreland. A sequel and continuation of"Viola." By Emerson Bennett. This is a powerfully written romance, which is destined to have a permanent reputa- tion. The characters are boldly drawn, the plot striking, the incidents replete with thrilling interest, and the language and descriptions natural and graphic. 336 pages. Price 50 cents in paper cover, or One Dollar in cloth, gilt. The Forged Will. By Emerson Bennett. This celebrated and beautiful work is published complete in one large volume, of over 300 pages, paper cover, price 60 cents; or the work is handsomely bound in one volume, cloth, gilt, price $1 00. One hundred thou sand copies of the Forged Will will be sold in a short time, and it will have a run and popularity second only to Uncle Tom's Cabin. The press everywhere are unanimous in its praise, as being one of the most powerful works in the language. The Pioneer's Daughter. By Emerson Bennett. Price 50 cents in paper cover, or 75 cents in cloth, gilt. Walde-Warren. A Tale of Circumstantial Evidence. By Emerson Bennett. Price 50 cents in paper cover, or 75 cents in cloth, gilt Kate Clarendon; or, Necromancy in the Wilderness.          By Em- erson Bennett. Price 50 cents in paper cover, or 75 cents in cloth, gilt. Bride of the Wilderness. By Emerson Bennett. Price 50 cente. In Press. NISS LESLIE'S NEW REClilPTSf FOR COOKING. Miss Leshe's New   Receipts for Cooking of all Kinds. Cakes, Pastry, &c., &c. Entitled; "More Receipts for Cooking,, by Miss Leslie, comprising new and approved methods of preparing all kindsof soups, fish, oysters, terrapins, turtle, vegetables, meats, poultry, game, sauces, pickles, sweet meats, cakes, pips, puddings, confectionary, rice, indian meal preparations of all kinds, domestic liquors, perfumery, remedies, laundry work, needle-work, letters, additional receipts, etc. Also, list of articles suited to go together for breakfasts, dinners and suppers, and much useful information and many miscellaneous subjects connected with general house-wifery. New edition, enlarged and improved, complete in 520 pages, handsomely bound. Price One Dollar a copy only. This work has had a very extensive sale, and many thousand copies have been sold, and the demand is increasing yearly, being the most complete work of the kind published in the world, and also the latest and best, as in addition to Cookery, its receipts for making cakes and confectionary are unequalled by any other work extant. This excellent and valuable book is published under the title of"MORE RECEII'8 FOR COOKING," BY MSS LESLIE; and is entirely different from any other work on similar subjects, under other names, by the same author. It is an elegantly printed duodecimo volume of 520 pages; and in it there will be found One Tlwusand and Eleven new Receipts-all useful-some ornamental-and all invaluable to every lady, miss, or family in the world. A very important feature in this new and admirable Cook Book, under the title of "MORE RECEIPTS FOR COOKING," BY MSS LESLIE, will be found in the list of ar- ticles suited together for Breakfasts, Dinners, Suppers, &c. In it will be found ex- tremely popular and useful suggestions,-of immense value in every household, adding greatly to its convenience, its comfort and economy. Mysteries of the Court of the Sttuarts, under the reign of Charles the becond, and James the Second. An Historical Romance. The period during the reigns of Charles II. and James IT., is one of the most interesting in English History. Nell Gwynne, first a poor actress, and again as the king's mistress, and possessing  more than a queen's influence, is the prominent character. The various chaiacters are well drawn, and the construction of the tale is thoroughly artistic. The scenes shift continually, and the interest of the reader is well sustained to the close. Com- plete in one volume. Price 50 cents. "This is an historical romance of a brilliant period of English annals, and its au- I thor has caught the spirit of the times, and worked up his materials with no common degree of skill. The book will be found exceedingly interesting."-Sbuthern Literary Gazette. Virginia and Magdalene ; or The Foster Sisters. A Novel. By Emma D. E. N. Southworth, autho4of "The Deserted Wife," "The Mother in Law, etc. Complete in one volume. Price 50 cents. "Mrs. Sonthworth's startling positions, vivid scenes, and a pervading intensity ft language and plot, remind us forcibly of Miss Bronte, (the author of ' Jane Eyre.')" -Literary World.  -I -- I                              I I  %l                 ^--=-                       ----------Z     - 10   T. B. PETERSON'S LIST OF PUBLICATIONS. HUMOROUS AMERICAN WORKS. Sol. Smith.-Theatrical Apprenticeship and Anecdotal Rec- ollections of Sol. Smith, Esq., Comedian, Lawyer, etc., with eight original designs and illustrations by Darley. Containing Early scenes, Wanderings in the West-Cincinnati in Early Life-"One man in his time plays many parts"-- Expedient to gain a Livelihood-Early days of Edwin Forrest-The Manager in Dis- tress-Pittsburgh Theatricals-Philadelphia Gardens in 1824-The Old Chatham Theatre-Star-gazing in New York-Concerts in New Jersey-Getting thro' a Winter -Strolling in Canada-The Murderous Alleghanians-Dawning of the Drama in Lewistown-Floating down the Stream-Theatricals .in Kentucky-Anecdotal Recol- lections since 1827-A Theatrical Dentist-The Rival Vocalists-Pettifogging in St. Louis-A Friendly Game of Poker-Tom the Curtain Man-The Manager and Planter. Signor Matthieu-Letter to Rev. A. Ballard-My First and Last Sermon- Tenn-.,see Door-keeper-The Player and the Phrenologist-Interview with an Editor, &c., Ac. Complete in one volume. Price 50 cents.  "A very whimsical apprenticeship it is, making it impossible to preserve, while read-V ing it, the slightest approach to gravity. Indeed, we have seldom met with a book so irresistably provocative of a perpetual 'broad grin.' It is as good as a play, and a play of the richest comedy."--Jefersonian. A Quarter Race in Kentucky, and other Stories.-By W. T. Porter, Esq., of the New York Spirit of the Times, with eight illustrations and designs by Darley. Containing a Quarter Race in Kentucky-A Shark Story-Lanty Oliphant in Court-Bill Morse on the City Taxes-Ance Veasy's Fight with Reub Sessions- The Fastest Funeral on Record-Going to Bed before a Young Lady-A Millerite Miracle-Old Singletire "Running a Saw" on a French Gentleman-Breaking a Bank -Taking the Census-Dick Harlan's Tennessee Frolic-"Falling off a Log" in a game of "Seven up"--The "Werry Fast Crab"--' French without a Master"-A Rollick- ing Dragoon Officer-The Georgia Major in Court-Uncle Billy Brown "Glorious"- Old Tuttle's Last Quarter Race-Bill Dean the-Texan Ranger-The Steamboat Cap- tain who was averse to racing-Bob Herring the Arkansas Bear Hunter-McAlpin's Trip to Charleston-Indian Rubber Pills-A Murder Case in Mississippi-Kicking a Yankee-A "Down-East"Original-Somebody in my Bed-'-A Day at Sol. Slice's- Cupping on the Starnum-A Bear Story-Playing Poker in Arkansas-&c., &c. Com- plete in one volume. Price 50 cents. It is illustrated with original engravings from designs by Darley. The 'Quarter Race in Kentucky' is one of the best stories that was ever penned, and the volume con- tains a number of others, that have from time to time appeared in the Spirit of the Times, which are hard to beat."-N. O. Picayune. The Rival Belles. ByJ. B. Jones, author of "Wild Western Scenes," etc. This is a very humorous and entertaining work, and one that will be recommended by all after reading it. It is a mirth-provoking work, 'and well calculated to enliven an evening and put to flight ennui, melancholy, and all the gloomy humors ' flesh is heir to.' It is a fit companion for the two previous works. Complete in one volume. Price 50 cents. L1jie and Adventures of Col. Vanderbomb, and        the Exploits of his Private Secretary. By J. B. Jones, author of "The Rival Belles," M"Wild Western Scenes," etc. This book will make your sides ache and split to read it, and persons of weak nerves should not peruse it, for it is only suitable for per- sons of strong constitution, so great is the humor. There is enough fun in it to spice a Magazine for a twelve-month. Complete in one volume. Price 50 cents. The Life and Adventures of Percival Maberry. Written by Him. self. It will interest and please everybody. It is a delightful book, and a well writ- ten story of adventure, Un agreeable and interesting work-a novelty in its way, and full to overflowing with curious and absorbing events. It is tull of incident and ad- venture, while Maberry himself is exceedingly well drawn. Those who read the first chapter will not lay it down until the story is mastered entire. Complete in one volume. 'All who enjoy a good laugh, should get it at once. Price 50 cents.. Yankee Yarns and Yankee Letters. By Sam Slick, alias Judge Hali- burton. Full of the drollest humor that has ever emanated from the pen of any author. .A collection of humorous stories, yarns and letters, well calculated to pro- voke laughter. We advise the immediate purchase of the book, and but a temper- ate use of it-one story at a sitting will be sufficient; a greater indulgence might result seriously. Every page will set you in a roar. Complete in one volume. Price fCO cents. 'The Attache; or Sam    Slick in Englatd.-By Judge Haliburton, au- thor of Yankee Yarns nd Yanilee Letters." etc. This is, of course. quite full of fun-"' all sortf' of fun; and those who want a good laugh, should get it at once. Complete in one volume.   T. B. PETERSON'S LIST OF PUBLICATIONS. " Works of Bulwer, James, and others, at 25 cents Falkland. A Novel. By Sir E. L. Bulwer, author of "The Roue," "Oxonians," etc. One volume, octavo. Price 25 cents. The Rone t or the Hazards of Women. BySir E. L. Bulwer. Price 25 ta. The Oxonians. By Sir E. L. Bulwer. Author of "Last of the Barons." A Sequel to the Roue. Price 25 cents. Arrah  Neil. A Novel. By G. P. R. James, author of "Richelieu," etc. Price 25 ct. Eva St. Clair; and other Collected Tales. By d. P. R. James, Esq, author of "Richelieu." /Price 25 cents. The Pioneer's Daughter. By Emerson Bennett, author of "The Prairie Flower." Price 50 cents. Agnes GreyG an Autobiography. By the Author of "Jane Eyre," "Shir- ley," etc. Price 25 cents. The Valley Farm ; or, the Autobiography of an Orphan. A com- panion to Jane Eyre. Price 25 cents. The Fortune Hunter, by Mrs. Anna Cora Mowatt. (Her last.) Price 37 cents. Gentlemat's Science of Etiquette, and Guide to Society. By Count Alfred D'Orsay. Price 25 cents. Ladies' Science of Etiquette. By Countess deCalabrella, with herfull length portrait. Price 25 cents. Grace Dudley; or Arnold at Saratoga. By CharlesJ. Peterson. Illus- trated. Price 25 cots. Ella Stratford; or the Orphan Child. By the Countess of Blessington. Price 25 cents. Ghost Stories. Full of Illustrations. Being a Wonderful Book. Price 25 cents. The Admiral's Daughter. By Mrs. Marsh, author of "ltavenscliffe." One volume, octavo. Price 25 cents. The Monk. A Romance. By Matthew G. Lewis, Esq., M P. All should read it. 25 cts. The Dark Lady of     oona. By W. H. Maxwell, author of "Wild Sports in the West." Price 25 cents. / Rody the Rover     r the Ribbonman. An Irish Tale. By William Carle ton.. One volume, oc(vo. Price 25 cents. The Diary of a Physician. Second Series. By S. 0. Warren, author of"Ten Thousand a Year." Illustrated. Price 25 cents. Abednego, the Money Lender. By Mrs. Gore. Price 25 cents. Madison's Exposition of the Awful Ceremonies of Odd Fel- lowship, with 20 plates. Price 25 cents. Gliddon's  Ancient Egypt, her Monuments, Hieroglyphics, History, etc. Full of plates. Price 25 cents. The Family Physician; or the True Art of Healing the Sick. By Dr. Hollick Price 25 cents. Father Clement. By Grace Kennady, Author of "Dunallen." "Abbey of Inni- moyle," etc. Price 50 cents. The Abbey of Innismoyle. By Grace Kennady, author of "Father Clement." Price 25 cents The Insnared ; a Story of the Heart. By Lady Charlotte Bury. 25 cts The Beautiful French Girl ; or the Daughter of Monsieur Fontanbleu. Price 25 cents.  The  Mysteries of Bedlam; or Annals of the        London  Mad Hou*e. Price 25 cents. Josephine. By Grace Aguilar, anthor of "Iome Influence," "Mtier's Recom- pense," etc. Price 25 cents bP             *i   12  T. B. PETERSON'S LIST OF PUBLICATIONS. Bell Brandon, and the Withered Fig Tree. A Three tHundred Dol- Jal prize nowd. Price 25 cents. Knowlson's Complete Cattle, or Cow       Doctor. Price 25 cents. itKnowlesol's Complete Farrier, or Horse Doctor. Price 25 cents. Th-e Comuplete Kitchen and Fruit Gardener, for popular and general use. Price 25 cents The Complete Florist: or Flowet Gardener. The best in the world.  Price 25 cents. Moreton Hall; or the Spirits of the Haunted         House. A Tale founded on Facts. Frice 25 cents. Philip in Search of a Wife. By the Author of "Kate in Search of a Hue band." Price 25 cents. Jenny Ambrose; or, Life in the Eastern States. An Excellent Book. Price 25 cents. Louise  St. Aubyn i or, The Jesuit Nun. By a noted Methodist Preacher. Price 25 cents. Walde-Warren;: a Tale of Circumstantial Evidence. By Emerson Bennett, author of "Prairie Flower." Price 50 cents. Viola; or Adventures in the Far South West. By Emerson Bennett, author of "The Pioneer's Daughter." Price50) cents. T. B. PETERSON,     S Cheap Book, Magazine, Newspaper, Publishing and Bookselling Establishment, is at No. 10 Chesnut Street, Philadelphia. From which place he will supply all orders for any books at all, no matter by whom published, in advance of all others, and at publishers' lowest cabh prices. He respect- fully invites Country Merchants, Booksellers, Pedlers, Canvassers, Agents, the Trade, Strangers in the City, and the public generally, to call and examine his extensive col- lection of cheap publications, where they will be sure to find all the latest and cheapest works published in this country or elsewhere, for sale very low. 4   The Philadelphia Publication Office of HARPER'S MAGAZINE is here, and all persons wishing to subscribe to it, or any other of the Monthly Magazines, Reviews, or Weekly Newspapers, will please call in person, or send by mail to T. B. PETERSON'S, store No. 102 Chestnut Street, and they will receive their numbers regularly after- wards, as soon as issued. Any two of the Three Dollar Magazines will be sent one year for Five Dollars, and'an Original Novel, as a premium, will be sent to each subscriber, gratis. He has also for sale, every Cheap Puulication and Magazine issued in this Country, and all other cheap editions published of any of the Foreign authors. Any work, either new or old, or by whom  published or advertised, can be obtained by sending to the undersigned, post-paid. J - Agents, Pedlers, Canvassers, Booksellers, News Agents, &c., throughout the country, who wish to make money on a small capital, would do well to address T. B. PETERSON, who will furnish a complete outfit for a comparatively small amount. Agents, Postmasters, Country Merchants, Pedlers, Dealers in Cheap Works, and all others, supplied with any thing in our line, at publishers' lowest cash prices; and their orders will be filled at as low prices, if not lower, than at any other house in this country. Any person wishing to subscribe to any of the Magazines or Newspapers, or procure any of the Cheap Publicatiens of the day, will get them by return of mail, steamboat, Stage, railroad, or express, on remitting as above, post-paid, all of which are subject only to periodical postage.   T. B. PETERSON'S LIST OF PUBLICATIONS. 13 A COOK BOOK FOR EVERY LArY AND FAMLY. MSS LESLIE'S NEW RECEIPTS FOR COOKING, Miss Leslie's New    Recelipt for Cooking of all Kinds. Cakes, Pastry, &c.,   c. E  thi led; ," More Recei;t s for C(ookiung," by }Miss Leslie, comprising new and apprroveod ime!thods of Ircparin all kindsof soups. fi h. oysters. terralins. turt'.e. vegetabls. Heats. pou!'try. . am. sauces, pickles,  sweet meat%, ctaktes; 1s p ldn s, Ceofct'onal;ry, r;cc. illlindia nora! p!repiarations of all kinds. tdmniestic liquors. ,pcrfumn ry.  rmniedies, laundry work. needle work, letters, additionl r, cecilts, etc Also. list of arlicles soilted to go logetlher for bre'kftists, dinners and suppers. inl 11111n1uh utseful iifoirmta ation( andet many m i scelln micouis s'iujiects connected with general lihos -willery. Necw edition. enlargd'and iniproved. complete in 50 ) pages. handsomnily lbotid I'rice One Dollar a copy only. This work has had a very extensive sale, aiid miny tlou.-and cope:s have been sold, and li11e (hmnllild is  inereasing yearly, being tie most cornmpl't, work (of the kindl pubished in the world, and also the latcst and b est, as in additioi to ( okeiry, its receilpts for imakiiig cakes and contfeetionary are unequalled ty any o(her work extant. This excellent and valuable book is published under th(e title f" 'MOl()11 It ECI PTS FOR (001OING," BY MLFS lESL, ; and is entirely diRf rent from any other work on similar subjects. under othl r namelis, by the same author It is an elerantly printed duoic iiio volunime of 52() pnages and in it there will ibe found One lTh'ow d und ElIeven oli, I'fcr-il ts-all useful-sonie ornamnental-anid all invaluable to every lady, miss. or family in the world Miss Leslie in the prefaice, says: -A large number of these new receipts have been "obtained fronm the iouth. and from ladies noted for their skill in house-wifery. Many "were dictated by clour c red ooks. (,f high reputation in the art. for which nature seems "'to ,irtve gIfted that trice with a p;eculiar c(talbility. ',(nie very fine receilpts in this col- lection are of French origin TIhiir titles are translated into our own language.*5 * :: "The corn meal preparations will he found unusually good particularly that for In- "di(an M1ush, anl article, which, simple as it is, is seldom nmade properly, or rather "wholsomnel q." A very important feature in this new and admirable Cook rlook, under the title of "MOlEI Il ECE I 'TS FORl COO )K I NG," BY 31 I SS LESJ, E, will be found in the list of ar- ticles suited together for Vtreal fit-ts, Dinners, Suppers. &c. In it will be found ex- treniely popular and useful suggestions.-of immniense value in every houseihold, adding greatly to its convenience, its comfort and economy. "' Miss leslie's ' Comple te Cookery' is prhalps better known than any similar collec- tion of receipts. The very elegant volume before us, entitled ' Mfore. Ilceipl, t for Cool- ",.7' by AI sm Leslie, is designe(t as a sequel and continuation to it,#nd should be its conipanion in every family, as the receipts are in no instance the .ame, even when their titles are similar It contains directions for plain and fancy cooking, preserving, pickling: and comnmencing with soups, gives new receipts for every course of an ex- cellent dinner, to the jellie: s and confectionary of the dessert. Besides this. there are directions for perfumery. minscellancous receipts. etc., and the celebrated ' Indian Meal Book,' which embraces every nmetthod in which that most valuable st aplie can lie pre- pared. Our readers are no strangers to the accuracy and minuteness of Miss Leslio's receipts. as. since the first number of the Gazette, she hs contiibuted to our house- keeper's department. This is the, more noticeable. Ihat she has no oilier similar en- gagement with any famiiy paiper. 'IThe lnew receipts in this voluine are atdmnirable. Many of them are modified from French sources, though Ioreign termis and designa- tions are avoided. The publisher has brought it out i an an extremely tasteful style."-- Philadelphia Sftturday Eri ning Gazette. I "Mr T. B. Peterson has just published'a new edition of Miss Leslie's ' More Receipts for Cooking.' 'Ilhis is a truly popular work. 'Thousatids of copies have already been disposed of, and other thousands will be. needed. It conttains directions for cool, in, preserving, pickling, aniid preparing almost every description of dish; also one hundredl and twenty recipes for preparing fitrina, Indian Meal, fancy tea-cakes, marmalades, &c. We know of no more useful work for families."'-Penna Inquirer. A copy of this celebrated Cook Ilook, entitled, ' More Receipts for Cooking,' by Miss Leslie, will be sent to any person at all, to any place in the United States, free of pot-age, on their remitting One Dollar to thmequblisher, in a letter, post-paid. Published and for Sale by       T. B. PETERSON, No. 10% Chestnut Street, Philadelphia. f  Orders from Booksellers, News Agents, Pedlars, Canvassers, and all others, will be thankfully received, and they will please send their orders at once, and they will be filled with promptness and despatch. A-' WANTED-Canvassers, to engage in thlIe sale of thiis popular Cook Book. entit'cd 'More Receipts bor C(oking,', by Miss Leslie, in every County and state in the country. * --- "-----,.                            ..   BY EMERSON BENNETT, AUTHOR OF "CLARA MORELAND," "4 VIOLA," "PIONEER'S DAUGHTER," ETC. THTS CELEBRATED AND BEAUTIFUL WORK is published complete in one largo volume, of over 300 pages, paper cover, price FIFTY CENTS; or the work is handsomely b-und in one volume, cloth, gilt, price ONE DOLLAR. ONE HUNDRED TIOUSAND COPIES OF THE FORGED WILL! will be sold in a short time, and it will have a run and popularity second only to Uncle Tom's Cabin. The Press everywhere are unanimous in its praise, as being one of the most powerfully written works in the language. THE FORGED WILL is truly a celebrated work. It has been running through the columns of the Philadelphia Dollar Newspaper, where it has been appearing for ten weeks, and has. proved itself to be one of the most popular nouvelettes that has ever appeared in the columns of any newspaper in this country. Before tilhe fourth paper ap- peared, the back numbers, (although several thousand extra of the three former numbers were printed,) could not be obtained at any price, and the publishers of the paper were forced to issue a Supplement sheet of the first three papers of it, for new subscribers to tleir paper, which induced the publisher to make an arrangement with the popular author to bring it out in a beautiful style for the thousands that wish it in book form. If Emerson Bennett had never written his many delightful and thrilling stories of border life, of prairie scenes, and Indian warfare, this new story of the ' FORGED WILL' would have placed his name on the record as one of the best of American novelists. The scenes, principally, of this most captivating novel, are laid in the city of New York; and most glowingly the author pictures to us how the guilty may, for a time, escape the justice of the law, but only to feel the heavy hand of retribution sooner or later; how vice may, for a time, triumph over virtue, but only for a time; how crime may lie con- cealed, until its very security breeds exposure; how true virtue gives way to no temp- tation, but bears the ills of life with patience, hoping for a better day, and rejoices triumphant in the end. In short, from base hypocrisy he tears the veil that hides its huge deformity, and gives a true picture of life as it exists in the crowded city. We do cordially recommend this book for its excellent moral. It is one that should be circulated, for it must do good. Price for the complete work, in one volume, in paper cover, Fifty Cents only; or a finer edition, printed on thicker and better paper, and handsomely bound in one volume, muslin, gilt, is published for One Dollar.         . T. B. PETERSON also publishes the following works by Emerson Bennett, either or all of which will be sent by mail, free of postage, to any one, on receipt of the prices annexed to them. All should send for one or more of them at once. No one will ever regret the money sent. CLARA MORELAND; or. Adventures in the Far Pouth-West. By Emerson Bennett, author of the "The Forged Will," "Viola." etc. This has proved to be one of the most popular and powerful nouvelettes ever written in America, 336, pages. Price Fifty Cents in paper covers, or ONE DOLLAR in cloth, gilt. THE PIONEER'S DAUGHTER. By Emerson Bennett, author of "Clara Moreland,' ' Forged Will," etc. Price 60 cents. WALDE-WARREN, a Tale of Circumstantial Evidence. By Emerson Ben- nett, author of "Viola, "' Pioneer's Daughter," etc. Price 25 cents. VIOLA ; or, Adventures in the Far South-West. By Emerson Bennett, author of  "The Pioneer's Daughter," "Walde-Warren, etc. Price 50 cents. Copies of either edition of thy above works will be sent to any person at all, to any part of the United States, free of postage, on their remitting the price of the edition they wish, to the publisher, in a letter, post paid. Published and for Sale by T. B. PETERgON, "           No. 102 Chestnut Street, Philadelphia. --.---- -- ..-.. - ---------                       -   =y-,=- ----- -- E-Read the Notices of the Press below.-W CLAR             MORELAND. I BY EMERSON- BENNETT. Price Fifty Cents in Paper Cover; or, One Dollar in Cloth, Gilt. READ THE FOLLOWING OPINIONS OF THE PRESS. "This novelet, the successive chapters of which our readers have perused with so much interest during the last three months, has been published in book form, in handsome style by T. B. Peterson,No. 102C'hestnut St. It contains a number of illustrations, de- signed by Stephens, and engraved by heeler. It is, in our opinion, the best production of its popular author. We have every reason to believe that it has afforded a great deal of pleasure to our readers. It is a tale of frontier adventure, told in a life-like and spirited manner, and not deficient in that golden thread of love which seems necessary to give a glow and brilliancy to the pages of romance. We notice that the 'Ledger' of this city, characterizes it as 'a thrilling story of frontier life, full of incident, and grae phically sketched' While the 'City Item' says, ' it is the best of Mr. Bennett's books, and a beautiful and thrilling production ' "-Saturday Evening lPst, April 9,1853. "This is another of those deeply interesting sketches of the wild and dangerous life of adventurers in the far-off!outh-Western portions of our country. The cruelties and cunning of savage life are strongly portrayed, and the reader is taught to feel Ihe bless- ings of civilization and the value of law. It is from the pen of Emerson Bennett."- Baltilmore Reputlican dd Argus. "' This is probably the most thrilling tale that bas been published for some time. Its characters are wholly American; and those who love to read of Indian warfare, bucca- nier chivalry, love, murders, plots, escapes, and every thing that is good, will find it bere."--Boston Waverly Magazine. "This exciting story is published in a handsome volume, magnificently illustrated. - Dodge's Boston Literary Museuim. "'This is a very entertaining American romance, embellished with a variety of mag- nificent illustrations, from original designs."- New o-rk Sunday Atlas. "Every western man will at once recognize the truthfulness of his description of wild wood scenery, and a severe critic observes that ' his home-like familiarity with the un- taught manners and singular customs of the Indian tribes of the far West.-his exqui- site delineations of civilized and savage character, &c., all acknowledge his dominion in, this field of literature.' It is undoubtedly the best work that Mr. Bennett has yet written."-Louisville Daily Times. "It is printed on good paper, with numerous illustrations, and is a work of rare interest. It is altogether the hest work Mr. Bennett has yet written, and he is one of the most popular of American novelists."-Columbia Spy. "It is from the pen of Emerson Bennett, Esq., and embellished with illustrations, from original designs by Stephens. It is printed on clear white paper, and in very large type. It is truly a celebrated work. It has been running through the columns of the 'Saturday Evening Post,' where it has been appearing for the last twelve weeks, and has proved itself tobe one of the niost Il'l tl;:r works that has ever appeared in the columns of any newspaper in this country. It is purely an American book."-Daily Express, Petersburg, Va. "It is a new and great novel, by Emerson Bennett; it has 334 pages, and is hand- somely illustrated. The reader will find it remarkably interesting, and the illustrations are very striking."-Pittsburg Daily Dispatch. "It is one of the most pleasant fictions of the day, and finds a ready appreciation among the many admirers of this gifted American writer. Ilsi descriptions of wild western scenes, of the semi-civilized and savage mlanners of the denizens of the dark and shadowy \i ilderness, of the rude and untaught borderers, as well as those of more refined habits-give him a claim to rank high in this branch of literature. Clara More- land is beautifully illustrated by original designs."-Pittsburg Token. "It is a novel of great interest, by Emerson Bennett, embellished with illustrations." -Boston lrue Flag "It is a highly interesting and beautifully illustrated novel."-Gmwm. Journal, PiUs- burg, Pt. "In Clara Moreland we have an interesting and beautiful American story, by a popu- lar and talented American author. Thils story was first published in the ' Saturday Post,' of Philadelphia, and the great demand for it as it appeared in successive numbers of that sheet, has induced the publisher to issue it in book form."-Pittsburg Post. 'Published and for sale by      T., B. PETERSON, 15            No. 102 Chestnut Street, Philadelphia. *8W  Copies will be sent to any-one, free of postage, on receipt of remittanoes   VI OLA; OR, ADVENTURES IN THE FAR SOUTH-WEST. BY EMERSON BENNETT, AUTHOR OF "CLARA MORELAND," "FORGED WILL," "KATE CLARENDON," "BRIDE OF THE WILDERNESS," 6"WALDE-WARREN," *"PIONEER'S DAUGH- TER," ETC., ETC. READ THE FOLLOWING OPINIONS OF THE PRESS: "We have perused this work with some attention, and do not hesitate to pronounce it one of the very best productions of the talented author. The scenes are laid in Tex as, and the adjoining frontier. There is not a page that does not glow with thrilling and interesting incident, and will well repay the reader for the time occupied in perusing it. The characters are most admirably drawn, and are perfectly natural throughout. We have derived so much gratification from the perusal of this charming novel, that we are anxious to make our readers share it with us; and, at the same time, to recommend it to be read by all persons who are fond of romantic adventures. Mr. Bennett is a spi- rited and vigorous writer, and his works deserve to be generally read; not only because they are well written, but that they are, in most part, taken from events connected with the history of our own country, from which much valuable information is derived, and should, therefore, have a double claim upon our preference, over those works where the incidents are gleaned from the romantic legends of old castles, and foreign climes. The book is printed on fine paper, and is in every way got up in a style highly creditable to the enterprising publisher." "It is a spirited tale of frontier life, of which ' Clara Moreland' is the sequel and conclusion. Mr. Bennett seems to delight in that field of action and adventure, where Cooper won his laurels; and which is perhaps the most captivating to the general mind of all the walks of fiction. There has been, so far, we think, a steady improvement in his style and stories; and his popularity, as a necessary consequence, has been and is in- creasing. One great secret of the popularity of these out-door novels, as we may call them, is that there is a freshness and simplicity of the open air and natural world about them-free from the closeness, intensity and artificiality of the gas-lighted world re- vealed in works that treat of the vices and dissipations of large cities."-Philadelphia Saturday Evening Post. "'This is one of the best productions of Mr. Bennett. The scenes are in and near Texas. Every page glows with thrilling interest, and the characters are well drawn and sustained An interesting love plot runs through the book, which gives a faithful re- presentation of life in the far South-West. Mr. Peterson has issued VIOLA in his usual neat style, and it is destined to have a great iun."--Clinton Tribuhe. "We have received the above work and found time to give it an examination. The scenes are laid mostly in Texas, and pictured with all the vividness for which the au- thor is so celebrated. Those who are particularly fond of wild and romantic adventures may safely calculate upon finding 'Viola' suited to their taste. It is well written and handsomely printed."-Daily Journal, Chicago, Ill. "It is a very interesting book. The scenes of this most exciting and interesting Ro- mance are found in Texas before and during the late Mexican war. It is written with much spirit and pathos, and abounds in stirring incidents and adventures, and has an interesting and romantic love plot interwoven with it; and is a faithful representation of 'Life in the Far South-West.' The author of (VIOLA,' will rank among the most popular of American Novelists, and aided by the great energy and enterprise of his pub- lisher, T. B. Peterson, is fast becoming a general favorite."-Gazette. Rhinebeck, N. Y. ' This thrilling and interesting novel-equal to anything the celebrated author ever wrote-has been issued in a fifty cent volume; and we would advise every one who wants to get the value of his money, to get the book. Bennett's works are the most in- teresting of any now published."- Western Emporium, Germantown, Ohio. THS BEAUTIFUL AND CELEBRATED WORK is published complete in one large volume of near 300 pages, paper cover, price FIFTY CENTS; or the work is handsomely bound in one volume, cloth, gilt, price SEVENTY-FIVE CENTS. Copies of either edition of the above work will be sent to any person at all, to any part of the United States, free of postage, on their remitting the price of the edition they wish, to the publisher, in a letter, post-paid. Published and for Sale by T. B. PETERSON, 16           No. 102 Chestnut Street, Pliladelphia., m-.                              .      FIjhJ. LtU1iLA1                1A'U IL A    U     ; OR, THE DAYS OF CICERO, CATO AND CATALINE. BY HENRY WILLIAM HERBERT, AUTHOR OF   "CROMWELL,"   6 THE BROTHERS,:E ETC. TIIIS SPLENDID WORK is published complete in two large volumes, of over 250 pages each. paper cover, price FIFTY CENTS a volume, or the whole work is hand- somely bound in one volume, cloth, price ONE DOLLAR AND TWENTY-FIVE CENTS. This is one of the most powerful Roman stories in the English language, and is of itself sufficient to stamp the writer as a powerful man. The dark intrigues of the days which Cesa r, Sallust, and Cicero mlde illustrious; when Cataline defied and almost defeated the Senate; when the plots which ultimately overthrew the Roman Republic were being formed, are described in a masterly manner. The book deserves a promi- nent position by the side of the great Hellum Catalir'rimn of Sallust, and, if we mistake not, will not fail to occupy a prominent place among those produced in America. READ THE FOLLOWING OPINIONS OF THE PRESS ABOUT IT.. From the Philadelphia Eveni, g Bulletin, of September 3rd 1853 "Since the publication of 'The Last Days of 'ompeii,' no fiction of classic times has appeared at all equal to this. The period chosen by Mr Herbert is even better suilAd than that selected by Iulwer, both to delineate the manners of ancient Rome and to enchain the attention of the reader. Thoroughly conversant with the age of which he writes, practised as a moralist, and enthusiastic in his subject, our author has, in this work, executed his masterpiece, and may well challenge tor it intelligent criticism, as well as popular applause The character of Cataline, the hero of the volume, in the sense at least in which ' Balfour of Burley ' is the hero of Old Mortality,' is boldly and artistically drawn, not indeed in the dark colors of Sallust, but in the milder tints which more Catholic historians have used. There are so few books in the language which the scholar and ordinary reader (-an alike peruse with pleasure, that Mr. Herbert may fairly consider himself entitled to the very highest praise for his successful pro- duction, in 'The Roman Traitor,' of such a work. The publisher has issued the novel in a handsome style, bound in embossed cloth, so pleasant to all who love pleasant books." From the Baltimore Republican and Argus, of Sept. 2d, 1853. "This is the title of a new and powerfully written story from the pen of II. W. Icer- bert, which of itself would place the author among the first writers of the day. Mr. Herbert is already well known as an author of no common merit, and this work must give him a permanent place in the front rank of the literary men of the Ago. It is a book which may be placed in the library of every man, and will be often referred to with pleasure. The book has been published by T. B. Peterson, and is put up in a style suited to the character of the work, and is altogether an interesting and handsome volume." From the Phil ideTphia Dollar Newspaper, of ,pt. 7th, 1853 "; This is a work calculated to excite a lively interest in literary circles. Roman his- tory ever has a charm for the youthful inquirer after knowledge, and by keeping historical facts steadily in view, the garb of fiction. without material detriment, will greatly add to the number of readers. In the story which the author has woven round the principal incidents in the life and history of Cataline, he claims to have adhered scrupulously to dates, facts, and the historical characters of the individuals introduced. The great aim of the author is to popularize the incidents of Roman history, and by avoiding the crnmon errors of writers in the same field. who have preceded him, of appearing learned. to bring his matter down to the comprehension of the mass of the reading public. lie has aimed less at portraying Greeks and Romans, than at depicting men-assuming that in all ages ' the human heart is still the human heart, convulsed by the same passions, chilled by the same griefs, burning with the same joys, and, in the main, actuated by the same hopes and fears.'" Price for the complete work, in two volumes, in paper cover, One Dollar only; or a finer edition, printed on thicker and better paper, and handsomely bound in one volume, muslin, gilt, is published for One Dollar and Twenty-five Cents Copies of either edition of the work will be sent to any person at all, to any part of the United States, free of postage, on their remnitt;ng the price of the edition they wish, to the publisher, in a letter, post-paid. Published and for sale by T. B.? , ERSON, 17           No. 10f  Chestnut Street, Philadelphia #,E,                l ,-                           - --    OR, ON AND OFF SOUNDINGS, A NfiW AND EXQUISlTELY ORIGINAL WORK. Have you read itt If not, then do so. Price Fifty Cents in Paper; or Seventy Five Cents in Cloth. Wild Oats Sown Abroad is a splendid work. It is the Private Journal of a Gentleman of Leisure and Education, and of a highly cultivated mind, in making the Tour of Europe. 'It is having a sale unprecedented in the annals of literature, for nothing equal to it in spiciness, vivacity, and real scenes and observations in daily travel, has ever appeared from the press. TABLE OF CONTENTS OF THIS EXTRAORDINARY WORK.   Opening the Journal. Adventure in search of Ruin Parting Tribute to Love. Three Desperate Days! The Poetry of Sea-Sickness The Red Flannel Night-Cap. A Ship by Moonlight. Arrival in London. The Parks of London. Poet's Corner, Westminster Abbey. England's Monuments. Madame Tussaud's Wax Works. The "Beauties" of Hamp- ton Court. Love and Philosophy. " Love's Labor Lost." A Peep at ' The Shades." The Modern " Aspasia." Noble Plea for Matrimony. The Lily on the Shore. English Mother and Ameri- can Daughter. The " Maid of Normandie." An Effecting Scene. " Paris est un Artist." The Guillotine. "Give us Another !" Post Mortem Reflections. Fashionable Criticism. Whiskey Punch and Logic. "Shylock asks for Justice I" "E;rette" and  Grisette." Kissing Day. The Tattoo. The Masked Ball. The Incognita. The Charms of Paris. Changing Horses.   A View in Lyons. .Avignon - Petrarch and Laura. Our First Ruin. .The Unconscious Blessing. A Crash and a Wreck. The Ilailroad of Life. A Night Adventure. "The Gods take care of ' Cato." The Triumphs of Neptune. The Marquisi s Foot. Beauties of'Naples Bay. Natural History of' the Laz- zaroni. The True Venus. Love and Devotion. The Mortality of Pompeii. Procession of the Host. The Ascent of Vesuvius. The Mountain Emetic. The Human Projectile. The City of the Soul. The Coup de Main. Night in the Coliseum I Catholicity Considered. Power Passing Away I Byron Among the Ruins. A Gossip with the Artists. Speaking Cemas. " Weep for Adonis !" The Lady and the God. The Science of Psalmistry. "Sour Grapes." A Ramble about Tivoli. Illumination of St. Peter's. The '* Niobe of Nations." A Ghostly Scenel " 1oni soit qui mal y pense." A " Ball" without Music.   Ahelard and Heloise. Scenes on the Rid. The " Tug of War." " There they are. by Jove!" The Raven-llaired One! Heaven and I ell I The ' Hamlet" of Sculpture. The Modern Susannah. Hley, Presto! Change  The Death Scene of Cleo- patra. An Eulogy on Tuscany. A Real Claude Sunset. Tasso and Byron. The Shocking Team I Floatings in Venice. The Venetian Girls. fhe Bell-Crowned Hat! The "Lion's Mouth." The "Bridge of Sighs I" A Subterranean Fete I Byron and Moore in Venice. Diana and Endymion. The Pinch of Snuff. The Rock-Crystal Coffin l Eccentricity of Art. Thoughts in a Monastery. The Lake of Como. Immortal Drummer Boy. Wit, and its Reward! The Co'd Bath. "Here we are!" The Mountain Expose. The "Last Rose of Sum- mer." Waking the Echoes. Watching the Avalanche. A Beautiful Incident. A Shot with the Long Bow. Mt. Blanc and a full stun.   Price for the complete work, in paper cover, Fifty cents a copy only; or handsomely bound in muslin, gilt, for Seventy-Five cents. Copies of either edition of the work will be sent to any person at all, to any part of the United States, free of postage, on their remitting the price of the edition they wish, to the publisher, in a letter, post paid. Published and for Sale by     T.   B.   PETERSON, 18 s        . No. 102 Clinetn.tt Street, Philadelphia    "NrLJllu PORTRAIT OF HENRY CLAY. NEAGLE'S CORRECT PORTRAIT AND ONLY TRUE LIKENESS EVER PUBLISHED OF HENRY CLAY. T. B. PETERSON, No. 102 Chesnut Street, Philadelphia, PUBLISHES THS DAY the above Portrait, and most respectfully dedi- cates it to the People of the United States, and is truly proud to be able to present to the American People, so true, so faithful, so superb a memorial of the noble Statesman, for whose death a nation mourns. This beautiful picture of HENR Y CLA Y was painted by the celebrated JOHN NEAGLE, on HENRY CLAY'S farm at Ashand, Kentucky. It is full- length, and represents him surrounded with the implements of AGRICUL- TURE, MANUFACTURES, COMMERCE. and the ARTS, and in the well- known attitude he always assumed when addressing the Senate and the People. The graceful folds of the American Flag, to the right of the figure, lends a beauty, and makes this splendid Mezzotinto Engraving not only the best likeness of HENRY CLAY in existence, but one of the most beautiful pictures in the world. It is a very large Picture,Engraved by JOHN SARTAIN, ESQ., and is sold at the low price of One Dollar and Fifty Cents a copy. Hear what the Editors of the leading papers say of it: PORTRXIT OF HENRY CLAY.-"We have received from the publisher an admirable full- length portrait of Henry Clay, engraved by Sartain, from a picture painted at Ashand, by Nealle, in 1843. No likeness that we have seen of the illustrious statesman does better justice to the peculiar expression of his features, and we believe that it will be eagerly sought by his admirers throughout the country who desire to possess a suitable memorial of the departed chief. It is published by T B. Peterson, Philadelphia."-New York Daily and Weelly Tribune, Edited by Horace (redey, Esq. The best portrait of Henry Clay extant, has been published by T. B. Peterson, No. 98 Chesnut street. It is a superb mezzotint, from Neagle's celebrated picture, giving the full length of the great statesman and patriot, and is sold at an exceedingly low rate. The Engraving may be had on thick plate paper, framed or without a frame. Every American, without distinction of party, should have a copy of the picture."-Philaua. Evening Bulletin. Mr. T. B. Peteron has just published a splendid full-length portrait of Henry Clay. It is from Neagle's celebrated painting. The likeness is remarkably striking, the atti. tude easy, natural and graceful, and the effect throughout is impressive and pleasing. The many admirers of the great statesman should hasten and obtain copies. The price is quite low."-Philadelphia Daily Inquirer. "The bestportrait of Henry Clay yet published, is that published by Peterson, Chesnut street, above Third. It is from the original by Neagle, a most superb article, far sur- passing the miserable catch-penny of Root. The price is One Dollar and a Half. Every admirer of the great Statesman should possess one of these life-like portraits."-Daily 5rue Amerwan. OUR LAMENTED STATESMAN, IENRY CLAY.-"Mr. T. B. Peterson, 08 Chesnut street, is publishing a full-length portrait of Mr. Clay, which we have no doubt will be exten- sively patronized. It is from the celebrated painting by Neagle, and it is sufficient to say, of the mezzotint engravinr, in which the portrait appears, that it is by Fartain, be- yond all question the most finished and masterly artist in that line of which this country has any knowledge. The price of this splendid portrait has been put down bv the pub. lisher at a rate sufficiently low to ensure it a hearty welcome in every Anlerican man- sion."-Philadelphia Saturday Ctur-ier. Copies of the Portrait will be sent to any one by return of mail to any place in the United States, free of postage, on their remitting One Dollar and Fifty Cents in a letter, post-paid, directed to the Publisher, T. B. PETERSON, 19             No. 1l0   Chesnut Street, Philadelphia. *9.mm.  -- .  -  -.-   iPA BOOK FOR THE WHOL               COOBiY. THE BY J. THORNTON RANDOLPH. Complete in one volume of 336 pages; fall of beautiful illustrations. PRICE ONE DOLLAR A COPY IN CLOTH, GILT; OR FIFTY CENTS IN PAPER COVER. Twenty-two Thousand Copies of this celebrated work were sold by Novem- ber 10th, 1852, which was only four weeks after its first publication, at which time this advertisement was written, and the demand is increasing every day. The Press every where praise it as far surpassing Mrs. Stowe's far- famed work of "Uncle Tom's Cabin." Telegraphic despatches from  all quarters of the "UNION" are pouring in for it, and Printers, Steam Presses, Bookbinders, Packers, and all others are kept busy at it to supply the demand. Every body should send for a copy and read it. THaB CABIN AND PARLOR," is a book for the whole country, and not for one section only. It is intended to allay, not excite, local jealousies. It is ' free from all bias of party, Every person who values the Constitution framed by Washington and his co-patriots, or loves " truth for truth's sake," should have a copy of -this work.               8 The author is a gentleman who has travelled both North and South, so that his descriptions are both faithful and accurate; indeed, nearly every incident described in the volume, he has personally witnessed. The narrative, though thus substantially true, is as thrilling as the most engrossing novel. Never, perhaps, has a book so interesting in every respect, been offered to the American public. I The spirit of enlarged phllanthrophy which pervades the book, is not its least recommendation. The author is a true and wise friend of his race, and not a quack in morals, as so many modern writers are. His religion is that of the Bible, and not mere varnished infidelity. Price for the complete work, in paper cover, beautifully illustrated, Fifty cents a copy only; or a finer edition, printed on thicker and- better paper, all handsomely bound in muslin, gilt, is published for One Dollar. Copies of either edition of the work will be sent to any person at all, to any part of the United States, free of postage, on their remitting the price of the edition they wish, to the publisher, in a letter, post-paid. 'Published and for sale by    T. P. PETERSON, 20          No. 10X Chestnut Street, Philadelphia. Slead the following pages, containing editorial notces of th worx.'   AMERICAN POCKET LIBRARY OF USEFUL KNOWLEDGE. New and Enlarged Edition! With Numerous Engravings!! TWENTY THOUSAND COPIES SOLD. Price FIFTY  CENTS a Copy only; and sent free of Postage to any place in the United States. Containing one thousand Receipts, Directions, &Ac., for Agriculture and successful Farming; Health, its preservation; the Culture of Flowers, of Silk, of Sugar-Beets, &c, and the cure alnd. treatment of Birds, of Horses, of Cows. of Poultry, of Bees, &c. The management and growth of the Hair; beauty and preservation of the Teeth; with Instructions for the Ladies in cooking Meats, and making Bread, Cakes, Pies, Preserves, Pickles; for making Ice Creams, and various healthy Drinks, &c., &c. Also, Canals, Rail Roads, Phrenology, and an immense amount of Political, Statistical, Geographical, and General Information, relating to the General Govern- ment, and the various States and Territories of the Union; Synopsis of Girard's Will, Wash- ington's Farewell Address, and the Constitution of the United States, entire, with the Amendments, &c. Read the following Notices of the Press in relation to this Work: "Experience and patient labor have made it a compilation to be consulted by the house keeper, the merchant, the mechanic, the farmer, and in fact by every class of citizens."- Philadelphia Saturday Courier. "We know of no one better calculated than the Editor for making a useful book like the present. It is a perfect Vade Mecum."-CGody's Lady's Book. "A very valuable little work, containing a great deal of useful information in a very small compass, elegantly stereotyped from fine type."-- atur&dy Etvening 'ost. "In fact, the book is a perfect omnium gatherum, containing a great amount of highly useful information, facts, and hints, WIIICLI EVERY ONE ought to be in possession of."-APublc  Leger. "a There is scarcely a subject which comes into notice in the daily wadrs of life, but is here laid down and familiarly illustrated. The object of the compiler has been to make his book a COMPI'r ETE VADE MECUM, and in this he has sucoeeded."- United States GratUe dHmn. J. R. ChIandler.) "This is a capital little volume. It is replete with information gleaned trom a THOUSAND FOURCES, and of the most AUTHENTIC CIIARACTER.   The compiler has embodied more useful information than may be found in any volume of the same size that has ever been issued from tihe Americant preis. TIIE PRICE is exceedingly reasonable."-Pennsylvtania Inquirer and Daily Courier. "We have never seen a volume embracing any thing like the same quantity of useful mat- ter. The work is really a treasure, and should speedily find its way into every family."- Saturday Chronicl, (Hon. B. faWttias, Presid*nt Snate Pennsylvania.) The New Edition published since the foregoing notices were made, contains double the num- ber of pages, and is beyond all question, the most comprehensive and valuable work of the kind ever published. Among the new additions are--. Catalogue of Useful Things. 2. Commercial Numbers. 3 New Postage Law. 4. Statistics of United States, Navy, Army, Debts of the several States, &c. 5. Each of the State Capitols, Time of holding Elections, Meeting of Legislatures, &c. 6. British Possessions. 7. Consuls of U. States for 1850, and each preceding Census. 8 Select -Bible Passages, and Religious sentiments of each President of the United States. 9. The Sab- bath Convention Address. 10. Extensive Mint Tables, of Gold and Silver Coins of all Nations. ". Distances and Directions of Principal Places on the Globe. 12. Weights and, Measures. 13. Universal Time Table. 14. Coat of Arms. &c., of thirteen original States. 15. Statistics and Flags of the principal Nations of the East. 16. Chrystal Palace, Maps, Public Edifices, Portraits, &c., &c., &c.                      . It also contains a large and entirely newiap of the United States, which is of itself worth the price of the book. It is published complete in one volume, handsomely bound, with full-page Illustrations and Portraits of all the Presidents of the United States, from Washington until the present time, exneutk d in the finest style of the art. A copy of th. work will be sent to any person, to any place in the United States. frpe of postage, on their remitting 50 cents to tho Publisher, in a letter, post-paid, or Two colpies will be Asnt, free of postage, for One Dollar. l'Published and for sale by T. B. PETERSON, 21                  No. 102 Chestnut Street, Philadelphia. ^f3                                           s^ -- -                   ,.- . ,       "FE IN THE SOUTH. A COMPANION   TO UNCLE TOM'S CABIN. Complete in one large Octavo volume of 200 pages. Price, Fifty Cents. Embellished with fourteen full page, spirited Illustrations. designed by Darley, and engraved lu the finest style of art, and printed on the finest tinted plate paper. Copies of it will be sent to any one to any place, free of postage, on their remitting Fifty Cents to the publisher for a c(py. Publlihed and for Saleby     T. B. PETERSON 22              No. 102 Chestnut Street, Philadelphia. ... ' - i iii---J-   - - -  - -^          JI L V JLJMj OF na3V          C HOCSEETT Complete in one large Octavo voliume of over 200 pages. Price Fifty Cents. Emllishel with full pge, spirited Illusttions, dsign b Stepns nd nv  the finest style ot' art. lhy/telerl. ;x // t e o'rth. complete ant eanhrded editum nf Iic Ifr. qf Davy (irock ett. ei'rIuWblis7,d in tPU' FJ,/iteC( Stdte s. Copies of it will be s nt to any one to any {   --    , ,  { i' Complete frin o nf postage on their rfmitonge Fifty Cets to the s ublishr for a copy Published and for Sale by     T BPETERSON 23       .     No. 10 Chiesnut Street, Ptilladelplila. T i.    24 LIST OF CHEAP PUBLICATIONS CON'TIN UID. ATEKXANDRE DUMAS'S WORKS. The Three Guardsmen ................  50 Twenty Years After ....................  75 Bragelonne, the Son of Athos.......  75 Forty-five Guardsmen ................  50 Iron Hand. By Alexandre Dumas     50 Memoirs of a Marquis. 2 vols. Il- lustrated. By Alexandre Dumas 1 00 Count of Monte Christo. 2 vols... 1 00 Thousand and One Phantoms .....   50 George; or, The Planter of the Isle of France. By Alexandre Dumas   50 The War of the Women...............  60 Fernande; or, The Fallen Angel...  50 The Two Dianas.........................  50 Three Strong Men......................  25 The Wedding Dress.t ...............  25 Countess of Salisbury...............  50 Black  Tulip ..............................  60 Recollections of Anthony ............  25 Fencing Master..........................  25 The Corsican Brothers. By the author of " Monte Christo" ......  25 Cecilia; or, A Woman's Love.......  25 Paul Jones: a Tale of the Sea ......  25 The Young Chevalier..................  50 Robert Macaire in London...........  50 GEO . W. R. REYNOLDS' WORKS. Mysteries of the-Court of London. 2  vols.................................... 1 00 Rose Foster; or, The Second Series of the Court of London. 3 vols. 1 371 Caroline of Brunswick. 2 vols..... 1 00 Venetia Trelawney. 2 vols.......... 1 00 Mary Price; or, The Adventures of a ervant Maid. 2vol ............ 1 00 Mysteries of the Court of Naples...  50 Kenneth: a Romance of the High. lands.....  ..... ...................   75 Life in London. 2 vol ............... 1 00 Ellen Munroo: a Sequel to Life in London. 2 vols....................... 1 00 Esther de Medina. 2 vole............ 1 00 The Reformed Highwayman.      2 vols....................................... 1  00 Pope Joan; or, The Female Pontiff  50 Faust: a Romance of the Secret Tribunals ......   .......  .   50 Wallace; or, The Hero of Scotland  50 The Gipsy Chief..........................  50 Maud  Lilly................................  50 Gretna Green.............................  50 Bronze Statue; or, The Virgin's Kiss. 2 vols........................... 1 00 The Mysteries of Old London.......  50 G. P. R. JAMES'S BEST WORKS. The Belle of the Court; or, One in a  Thousand ............................  25 Count de Castleneu ....................  25 Philip Augustus........................  25 Mary of Burgundy.....................  25 Gentlemen of the Old School ........  25 Richelieu  ..................................  25 The Collegians.......................  25 The  Robber................................  5 The  Gipsy.................................  50 Remorse, and other Tales............  25 EDn   EMER6ON- BEINT:''S WORKS. The Prairie Flower; or, Adven- tures in the Far West..............  25 Leni Leoti: a Sequel to the Prairie Flower...................................  25 The Female Spy; or, Treason in the Camp ...........................  25 Rosalie Du Pont: a Sequel to the Female Spy   .................. ..........  25 The Traitor; or, The Fate of Am- bition.  2  vols........................  50 Oliver Goldfinch; or, The Hypo- crite.......................................  25 Bandits of the Osage..................  25 The Unknown Countess ..............  25 League of the Miami ..................  25 Kate Clarendon..........................  25 The Forest Rose: a Tale of the Frontier  .. .  ...  .....................   26 Mike Fink: a Legend of the Ohio.  25 DICKENS'S POPULAR WORKS. David Copperfield. With Plates...  50 Dombey & Son. With Plates......   50 Christmas Stories and Pictures from   Italy...............................  37k Martin Chuzzlewit.....................  50 Barnaby Rudge. Illustrated.......  50 Old Curiosity Shop. Illustrated...  50 Sketches of Every-Day Life and Every-Day People ........ ......  50 Pickwick Papers.........................  -50 Oliver  Twist.................... .........  37I Nicholas Nickleby......................  50 Lizzie Leigh ............................  12k The Miner's Daughter...............  121 EUJNiS; SUE'S SELECT WORKS. The Princess of Mansfield ..........  25 Louise De Villiers.......................  25 The Duchess Almeda............    25 The Commander of Malta..........  25 The Fortune-Teller of    Sainte Avoye. By Eugene Sue..........  50 The Fair Isabel. By Eugene Sue..  50 Atar Gull: a Nautical Story........  25 Mysteries of the People...............  50 The Children of Love..................  25 Martin,the Foundling. By Eugene Sue. Beautifully illustrated. 2 vols.paper............. .............. 1 00 Mary Lawson. By Eugene Sue...     25 Capital Sins:-Pride, 50 cts; Envy, Anger, Madeline, each..............  25 Matilda; or, The Memoirs of a Young Woman. By Eugene Sue      50 Mysteries of Paris ......................  75 Mysteries of London. By Eugene Sue. 2 vols. Illustrated......... 1 00 Mysteries of the Heath ................  25 Widow's Walk. By Eugene Sue..     25 BULWER'S NOVELS.  The Last Days of rompeii ...........  25 Eugene Aram  ...........................  25 Pelllam; or. The Adventures of a Gentleman..............................  25 Zanoni......................................  25   BULWER'S NOVELS. Ernest Maltravers ....................  25 Alice; or, The Mysterilas: a Sequel to Ernest Maltravers ................  25 COOPER'S NOVELS. Last of the Mohicans. 2 vols .......  0 Pioneers. 2 vols........................  50 Deerslayer. 2 vols.....................  60 Pathfinder. 2 vols.....................  50 Prairie.  2  vols ..........................  50 Mercedes of Castile. 2 vols........  50 The Oak Openings. 2 vols..........  60 Two Admirals. 2 vols................  50 Travelling Bachelor. 2 vols........  50 Homew:rd Bound. 2 vols..........  50 The Chain-Bearer. 2 vols...........50 Afloat and Ashore. 4 vols.......... 1 00 Home as Found. 2 vols..............  50 The Crater. 2 vols.....................  50 Headsman. 2 vols.....................  60 Jack  Tier.  2  vols.......................  50 Wing and Wing. 2 vols.............  50 Red Rover. 2 vols .....................  50 Monikins. 2 vols.......................  50 The Sea Lions. 2 vols................  50 Lionel Lincoln. 2 vols...............  50 Wyandotte. 2 vole....................  50 Ned Myers. 1 vol......................  25 Satanstoe. 2 vols ......................  50 Bravo.   2  vols............................  50 Redskins. 2 vols ........................  50 Heidenmauer. 2 vols.................  50 Pilot.  2   vols..............................  50 Water-Witch. 2 vols..................  50 Spy.   2  vols.............: .......   50 Wept of Wish-Ton-Wish. 2 vols..   50 SMOLLETT'S SETET WORKS. Adventures of Roderick Random..   50 Adventures of Peregrine Pickle...  50 Expedition of Humphrey Clinker.   38 Adventures of Ferdinand Count Fathom  ...................................  38 Adventures of Sir Launcelot Greaves..............................  38 FIELDING'S s.T-CT WORKS. Tom Jones; or, The History of a Foundling   ..... .........................  0 Adventures of Joseph Andrews and his Friend Mr. Abraham Adams ...................................  38 Am elia......................................  50 Life of Jonathan Wild.................  25 DOUGLAS JERROLD'S WORKS. Jack Runnymede, the Man of Many Thanks..........................  Job Pippins, the Man who Couldn't II elp   it ...................................  12 I.aac Cheek, the Man of Wax......  121 Titus 'Trump, the Man of Many Hopes ...                       12 The Man made of Money............  25 St. Giles and St. James. Illustrated  38 The Dreamer andr WU  .r-n-.        ok   PUNCH'S HUMOROUS LIBRARY. Mrs. Candle's Curtain   Lectures. By " Punch." With Engravings and Woodcuts. New edition, from the revised London issue...  26 Punch's Complete Letter-Writer. 10  Plates................................  25 Punch's Courtship. 10 Plates ......  2 Punch's Heathen Mythology. 10 Plates....................................  25 Punch's Labors of Hercules. 10 Plates....................................  2 The London Medical Student. By Punch. Plates .......................  26 The London Medical Student. Se- cond Series. Plates.................  25 NED BUNTLINE'S WORK8. Afloat and Ashore......................  2 Norwood .......   ..............   2 Mysteries and Miseries of New York. 2 vols.......................1 00 Three Years After. (Being a Se- quel to the above) .................  50 The Life Yarn .........................  60 The B'hoys of New York.............  50 The Convict.........................   50 The G'hals of New York.............. 60 CHOICE WORKS BY THE BEST AUTHORS. Tom Racquett, and his Three Maiden Aunts. Beautifully il- lustrated  ..........................   50 Frank Fairleigh; or, Scenes in the Life of a Private Pupil.............  50 Lewis Arundel. By the Authorof "Frank Fairleigh." Illustrated   50 The Sisters; or, The Fatal Mar- riage. By Henry Cockton........  50 The Greatest Plague of Life ......... 50 Leonard Normandale ..................  2 Adventures of Paul Periwinkle. Illustrated ..............................  50 -The Steward: a Romance of Real Life. By Henry Cockton.........  50 Windsor Castle. By W. H. Ains- worth....................................  60 Fanny Hervey; or, The Mother's Choice....................................  25 The Diary of a Pawnbroker .........  2 The American Joe Miller. With over 100 illustrations...............  25 Life of John A. Murrell, the Great Western Land Pirate ...............  2 Life of Joseph T. Hare. Illustrated  26 Life of Col. Monroe Edwards. With illustrations ...........................  25 The Matchmaker ........................  25 The Cardinal's Daughter.............  25 Mothers and Daughters. By Mrs. Gore....................................  25 Jark Ariel; a Thrilling Sea Story.  25 Jeremiah Parkes...........2............  25 The Clandestine Marriage...........  25 Self-Decoption; or, The History of the Human Heart. 2 vols.. each   50 Consuelo. By George Sand.........  50    26 LIST OF CHEAP PUBLICATIONS CONT'LNUEI). CHOICE WORKS BY THE BEST AUTHORS. Countess of ltudolfstadt: Sequel    - to Consuelo............... ............  60 Shakspeare and his Friends.........  50 The Youth of Shakspeare............  50 The Secret Passion.....................  50 Con Cregan, the Irish Gil Bias. By Lever ......   .   ..... ............  50 The Prince. By Cockton............  50 The Love-Match. By Cockton ......  50 Sylvester Sound. By Cockton.....  38 The Lancashire Witches. By Ain- worth ...................................  50 Ocean Born .............................  25 W hitehall ........................ ....  50 Miser's Daughter. By Ainsworth    50 Brian O'Linn; or, Luck is Every Thing....................................  60 Heads and Hearts; or, My Bro- ther the Colonel ......................  60 The Swamp Steed; or, The Days of Marion and his Merry Men...  50 The Prairie Scout: a Picture of Life in the Wilds of Texas and M exico...................................  50 The Rifle Rangers: a Romance of Mexico. By Captain Mayne Reid   50 The Heirs of Derwentwater. A Novel of surpassing interest and rare power...........................  50 Wacousta; or, The Prophecy. By Major Richardson....................  50 Matilda Montgomery; or, The Pro phecy Fulfilled: a Sequel to Wacousta" .    .........................  50 Ecarte; or, The Salons of Paris: a Vivid Picture of French Society.  50 The Apocryphal New Testament. This work should be in the hands of all .................... ..  50 Glances at Europe.   By Horace Greeley. Bound in Cloth......... 1 00 Pocket Companion for Machinists, Mechanics, Inventors, and En- gineers. By Oliver Byrne, Au- thor of the Dictionary of Mecha- nics, &c. &c. Pocket form, Mo- rocco  tucks.............. ... ............   1  00 Moneypenny; or, The Heart of the World. By Cornelius Mat- thews.......................... ..... .....  50 Rebels and Tories; or, The Blood of the Mohawk. By Lawrence Labree .....  .. ............... ...  50 Celio; or, New York Above Ground and Under Ground ....... ........  25 New York by Gas-Light. Showing up the great Metropolis "at Night"  ..............  ...........  25 Dan Marble, the Gamecock of the Wilderness .............................  50 Reveries of an Old Maid: With very Important Hints to Young Men. ................... .............  50 Kate i'onrose; or, Life and its Les- sons. By Mrs. Hubhack........   25 Comp Stories; or, Incidents in the Life of a Soldier. Illustrated...  25   CHOICE WORKS BY THE BEST AUTHORS. Life of Jenuy Lind. A graphic and reliable memoir of this charming lady ........................  25 Gentleman Jack; or, Life on the Road    ...2.............. .........  25 Jenny Diver,the Female Highway-  man ..........................  ...... 25 Gilderoy, the Freebooter. A vivid and dramatic narrative............  25 The Forrest Divorce Case ............  25 Captain Kyd, the Wizard of the Sea. By Prof. J. H. Ingraham..  50 Lafitte, the Pirate of the Gulf. By Prof. J. H. Ingraham     ......  50 Fortunes and Misfortunes of Har- ry Racket Scapegrace ...............  50 Ben Brace; a Nautical Romance. Equal to Capt. Marryatt's best. 1 vol., illustrated.....................  50 Guerilla Chief: a Romance of War. Illustrated. 1 vol..................  50 Ryan's Mysteries of Marriage. 1 vol., illustrated....................  25 Portfolio of the Young 'Un. A humorous book. Illustrated....  25 Wau-nan-Gee; or, The Massacre at Chicago..................................  25 The Seven Brothers of Wyoming.   25 Life of Helen Jewett. Illustrated.  25 Life of Jack Rann. Illustrated....  25 Lives of the Felons. Illustrated...  25 Life of Alexander Tardy,the Pirate: a Tale of St. Domingo. Illus- trated ............ ..... .......  25 White's Melodeon Song-Bonk......  121 White's Plantation Melodies......  12 White's Ethiopian Song-Book......  12 White's Serenaders' Song-Book...  121 Monk-Knight of Saint John.........  50 Conclin's New River Guide; or, A Gazetteer of all the Towns on the Western and Southern Waters..  25 History of Rinaldo Rinaldini, Cap- tain of Banditti..................  25 ! The Separation; The Divorce; and The Coquette's Punishment......  25 The Adventures of Caleb Wiiams. By William Godwin.................  25 Natural History of the Vestiges of Creation. With a Sequel.......  50 Life and Adventures of Old Billy McConnell, the Witch Doctor. By one born among the Witches  50 Swedes in Prague; or, The Signal Rocket: a Romance of.the Thir- ty Years' War........................  25 How to be Happy: The Laws of Life and Health. By R. J. Cul- verwell................................  25 Diseases of Winter: On Consump- tion. By H. . Cllvrerwell........  25 Health and Long Life: or. What to Eat, Drink, and Avoid, &c. By R. J. Culverwell.................  25 Whitefriars: or, The Days of Charles the Second. 24(0 pages, illustrated ...............................  50   CHOICE WORKS BY THE BEST AUTHORS. Doniphan's Expedition: Contain-  ing an Account of the Conquest of New Mexico. Illustrated with Plans of Battles, and other fine Engravings.............................  25 California: Its History, Popular tion, Climate, Soil, Productions, and Harbors. Also, full accounts of the Gold Regions, Different Routes, Tables of Distances, &c..  25 Cecilia; or, The Memoirs of an Heiress. By Miss Burncy........  60 Altamont; or, The Charity Sister. By lion. Mrs. Norton.............  25 Life in New York. By Wm. Burns. 45 illustrations........................  25 The Five Love Adventures of Solo- mon Slug; and other Sketches..   25 Gamblers' Tricks with Cards Ex- posed and Explained. By J. H. Green, the Reformed Gambler. Containing an exposition of the various cheats practised with cards  ....................................  25 The Corsair.   By George Sand, author of "First and True Love," &c ..........................................  25 Home, and its Influence: a Domes- tic Story. By Miss Sidney ........  50 Cruise of the Crescent: a Sea Novel ........... ................   25 The Soldier's Daughter. By Max- well .......................................  25 The Spring-Street Milliner: a Tale of City  Life .............................  25 The Orphan Seamstress: a Tale of the  City ................................  25 Life and Adventures of Tom Sta- pleton.  Illustrated................  25 The Image of his Father.............  25 Whom to Marry, and How to Get Married .............2...............  25 Dombey and Daughter. With numerous illustrations............  25 David Watson; or, The London Apprentice: a Sea Story...........  25 Lady of the Gulf: a Sea Story of great interest ........ ................  25 The Belle of the Bowery; or, G'hal of New York ...........................  25 The Haunted Chief; or, The Fe- male Kancheros. By Newton M . Curtiss ..............................  25 The Scout of the Silver Pond. By Newton M. Curtiss .................  25 The Matricide's Daughter: a Tale of Life in the Great Metropolis. By Newton M. Curtiss..............  25 The Victim's Revenge. (A Sequel to the above)......................  25 The Star of the Fallen. (A Sequel to  the  above)...........................  25 The Patrol of the Mountain: a Tale of the Revolution.     By Curtiss...................................  25 Tho Dancipg Feather, and Sequel. By  Ingraham  .........................  25   CHOICE WORKS BY THE BEST AUTHORS. The Comic Wandering Jew. With 100 illustrations.......................  25 Olph; or, The Wreckers of the Isle of  Shoals ...2...... ..................... 25 Grace  W elden  ............................  2 The Students of Paris. By Albert Smith....................................  25 Paul Deverill. By Ingraham......     25 The White Wolf; or, The Secret Brotherhood ...........................  25 Mabel, the Actress. By Miss Opie    25 The Gentleman's Daughter .........  2 The Rescued Nun ......................  25 The Capitalist ...........   .........  25 The Marquis.............................  25 The Attorney's Clerk..................  25 Isabel, the Pride of Palermo.........  25 Asmodeus; or, New York by Night and Day ........................  25 Amy Lawrence, the Freemason's Daughter ...............................  50 Harry Burnham, the Young Con- tinental ................................  50 Stanfield Hall: an Iistorical tRo mance.    2 vols.   Beautifull) illustrated  0...... ..................... 1 00 Rory O'More. By Samuel Lover..      50 Ellen Grant. By the Author of " Mysteries of Boston" .............  25 Dr. Valentine's Comic Lectures. 1st Series. With numerous il- lustrations..............................  60 Dr. Valentine's Comic Lectures. 2d Series. With numerous illus- trations ................................  0 Montezuma, the Serf. By J. II. Ingraham..............................  60 The Countess of Morian; or, Wo- man's Revenge. By F. Soulie...    60 The Life of Yankee Iill. Illus- trated. By Dr. Northall..........  60 New York in Slices. With nume- rous illustrations .....................  38 The Invalid.   By Spindler..........  60 The Banditti of the Prairie. By E. Bonney. Illustrated ............  60 Count Julian .............................  50 Dow Jr.'s Patent Sermons. 2 vols. 1 00 Ladder of Gold. By Robert Bell...   50 Before and Behind the Curtain. By Dr. Northall .......................  50 Life and Adventures of Dick Clin- ton. Illustrated .....................  25 Stories of Waterloo.   By W. H. Maxwell.................................  25 Minnie Grey..............................  60 Wood's Minstrels. An excellent song-book......................    12* Rochester ........ ................. ....  50 Bivouac; or, The Rival Suitors. By W. II. Maxwell ...................  50 Life and Adventures of Clarence Bolton ....  ................................  25 Charcoal Sketches. By Neal. 1t and 2d Series. Illustrated .......  50 Christopher 'T'apole. Illustrated. By Albert Smith .................... 56   "WRead the Notices ofi the Press Below.-Wa THE UALIE ALED PABIO L Price One Dollar in Cloth, Gilt; or Fifty Cents in Paper Cover. READ THE OPINIONS OF THE PRESS BELOW. "Written with spirit and fidelity. contrasting, in this latter particular, very favorably with the novel of Mrs. Stowe."- Weekly Post, (N. C.) "Will be universally read. The author ie a gentleman of rare attainments, and has made 'the best book of the day.' "-Planter's (La.) Banner. "The scenes and descriptions are graphically drawn, and exhibit much power. To those who have read Mrs. Stowe's book we would heartily recommend the perusal of this."-Pictou (Nova Scotia) Chronicle. "We do not know when we have perused a book with more pleasure. It is also the truest picture of Northern and Southern life we have ever met. Its sale bids fair to equal, if not excell' Uncle Tom's Cabin.' "-Pennsylvania Telegraph. "Written in a forcible and engaging style. Calculated to inculcate correct ideas on the subject of slavery."-Republican (Md.) Citizen. "Becoming very popular, as it justly deserves to be. Certainly one of the most inte- resting novels of the day."-Essex (N. J.) Standard. "Never read a book more pleasing. Life in ' Old Virginia' is graphically portrayed. Must have a great run."--aLmden (Ala.) Phcenix. "Has for its aim a thoughtful and interesting picture of the people as they are: of the Northern loid and his vassals, of the Southern master and his slaves; and of the duties of the North as well as the South."-Congregational (N. H.) Journal. "An author who appears to feel the weight of his moral responsibilities. Gives a cwre description of Southern life."-Wilmington (N. C.) Cbmmercial. "A thrilling story. A tone of moral feeling and sympathy running through the volume.  A powerful antidote to such poisonous works as 'Uncle Tom."'"-North (Oklina Sar. * Well calculated to counteract the evil influence of' Uncle Tom.' It is beautifully illustrated."-Poilnte Cbupee (La.) Echo. "One of the most interesting Books we have ever read in the garb of fiction; the most forcible, the most expressive, the most convincing. We predict for it an immense popularity."-Middleton (Ohio) Emblem. "A book of absorbing interest in its story. The very best book of the day."-Skow- began (Maine) Press. "The best conceived and best written of all the works of its class."-WeUsburgh (Va.) Herald. "The story is one of thrilling interest. Has the vraisemblance of nature, and seems copied from life."-Columbfs (Miss.) Democrat. "Its incidents are such s the reader feels might be true.. Will be read with avidity. Beautifully illustrated." Fort Wayne (Ind.) Laurel Wreath. s"We trust that it will attain that extensive circulation in the Southern States which would be commensurate with its merits."-Pau/ding (Miss.) Clarion. "Better calculated to silence the pending agitation of the Slave question, than all the speeches, pro or con, that have been delivered on the floor of Congress. Besides it is, in the strictest sense, a moral teacher alike to the master and to the slave."--Suthern (Ky.) Argus. "Far superior in plot, character, and description to Mrs. Stowe's book. The most in- teresting fiction that we have seen for a long time. From it also may be drawn some of the best morals for the guidance of the human heart."-Boston "Uncle Sam." "We hope it will meet an extended sale, and reach the threshold of every citizen in the land. Much need is there, at this time, for a work of this character."--ag Harbor (N. Y.) Gazette. "Written in the most pleasing style. Every one should read this work, and none who commence it will fail to complete, or regret he commenced it."-Delaware Gazette. "Freely embellished. A transcript of real life in the free and in the slave -states. The writer avoids extremes."-Providence (R. I.) Jirror. "Worthy the support of all who value the Constitution, and wish correct views disse- minated."-Griffin (Ga.) Union. "A candid and fair representation of Southern life. That it it exceedingly well written-abundant in interesting incident,-and filled with spirit from ' Preface,' to 'Finis,' no one will gainsay. It is worth purchasing, reading, and preserving."- Buffalo Express. Published and for sale by       T. B. PETERSON, 28             No. 102 Chestnut Street, Plhiladelphia.   vs  tzeaa m;e oonces of the rress below. '- 1 WILD OiTS SOWN' ABROAD. Price Seventy-Five Cents in Cloth, Gilt; or Fifty Cents in Paper Cover. READ THE OPINIONS OF THE PRESS BELOW. "T This volume is the work of a gentleman of leisure, and, judging from the revelations which he makes, he was educated with ' elegant desires' and sufficient wealth to permit him to indulge his tastes. The sketches which are here collected are marked by spirit, vivacity, and agreeable de- scription. The author writes with the ease of a good, clever fellow, who always loots on the bright side of things, and who endeavors to extract amusement from  the most unpromising suljects. Ilis adventures are candidly told, and he leads the reader into many foreign mysteries which most travellers avoid. His style is remarkably easy aud flowing. You glide along without an effort, and he manages to keep up an intereFt which it is the good fortune of few writers to produce. The unlknorwn author ins hit the target precisely. Much of the spirit of the lhte Jhn Sandler lon flows from his pen, and his volume will form a delightful sequel to the agree- able bookhof that pleasant and witty writer."- Philade/li ,hi Sttda,/ Displtch. "In originality of conception, grace of diction, humor of stvle-in classic allusion, piquancy, wit, and vivacity, it s autlor' stadds unriv:,lled by any ' light' writer, ancient or modern, with whom we are ncquainted. Whoever buys the book and reads the opening chapter. we venture to say, would not part with it for ten times its cost, if he could not procure an- other. We would remark, however, that some portions of the work are more suited for gentlemen readers than for all lndies, from the floridity of the language, though even in its most questionable pa..sages ticre is a redeeming morality, and a beauty of style and sentiment."- /-' ilf(dellJi Saturday Courier. "It is certainly a vivacious fcroduction, and. with some objectionable passages, has many good ones. The writer certainly did not belong to the melancholy or abstemious school at the time he sketched the scenes and incidents of his travels. lie seems to have been deeply imbued at that period with the Byronic temperament, which breathes in almosl t cvery line. The same versatile, don't care, dashing and off-hand style which runs through the letters and rhymeb of the poet, is discernible in this new but anonymous candidate for public favor."-Petersbryt ( Va.) h[telliygecer. "The publisher has made an elegant volume of these spicy leaves which have all the pungency of the real 'Fanny Fern,' with the racy, free spirit, that bespeaks the travelled gentleman and the polished wit. (Our readers have had repeated 'on and off' specimens of the manner in which these American 'Wild Oats' were sown upon European soil, and have no doubt been heartily amused at the bold, original way in which our gentleman of leisure went over the ground. That there may be no suspicion of partiality towards city customers, Mr. P. is determined to give both town atnl country a fair show, and so sends copies, free of posta(ge, on the receipt of fifty cents. In this way, all can be promptly supplied with the gleanings from the ripe old harvest fields, where love and philosophy, mu sked balls, atnd monasteries, London sights, Parisian charms and Italian romance, tlourish in rich luixuriance."-Phil(udclphia Saturday Coculier. Copies of either edition of. the work will be sent to Lany person at all, to any part of the United States. free of postage, on their rtmnitting hle price of the edition they wish, to the publisher, in a letter, post. p,:id.  Published and for snle by       T. B. PETERSON, 2[              No. 102 Chestnut Street, Philade phia.   neaa  ;ie noltces oI ine    rress oelow. -THSEE F(D[RDEI}                     E ILL. BY EMERSON BENNETT, AUTHOR OF "CLARA MORELANI)," "VIOLA," "PIONEER'S DAUGHTER," ETC. Price Fifty Cents in Paper Cover; or, One Dollar in Cloth, Gilt. From the Philadelphia Saturday Courier, of Oct. Sth, 1853. "'The Forged Will' is one of the most thrilling productions ever issued from the American press, earnest in its language, rich in incident, and exciting in adventure. While possessing all the attractions of a highly wrought romlnce, virtue and vice are forcibly contrasted, and sound moral principle eloquently enforced. Hypocrisy is suc- cessfully unmasked, and the betrayer and his victim portrayed in a series of highly I wrought pictures: that cannot fail to win the heartfelt sympathy of the reader. This work must have an immense sale, for, independent of its intrinsic excellence, the author's previous productions have awakened a lively interest among a large class of readers, an interest which 'The Forged Will' is well calculated to gratify." Prom the Boston Literary Museum, of Oct. 8th, 1853. "This is a powerfully written domestic romance, which is destined to have a perma- nent reputation. The characters are boldly drawn, the plot striking, the incidents re- plete with thrilling interest, and the language and descriptions natural and graphic. Much of the romance must have been founded on fact-an impression which will be entertained by all who read the work, so true to nature are its scenes and characters. From the Boston Daily Bee, of Sept b0th, 1853. "This is a production which certainly exhibits a master mind. Power is the sugges- tion and evidence of every page. The scene of the novel is laid in New York, and the characters are drawn with wonderful life-likeness and felicity. Those who wish to be both entertained and amused should procure the work.", From the Philadelphia Daily Nr ws, of ,September 28th, 1853. "Mr. Bennett may fairly be classed with the popular writers of the day, and in the present instance he has succeeded in presenting to the public a book of marked and thrilling interest, which will not fail to exercise a beneficial influence wherever it may be attentively read; The scene of the tale, is the city of New York; and, whilst it takes the reader alike to the splendid palatial residence of the wealthy aristocrat and the abode of poverty, the great end in view, the triumph of virtue over iniquity, is steadily and most beautifully pursued: the pictures are drawn with great force, and the ' Forged Will' is entitled to a place in the library of every man and woman who has a taste for light reading, and will not fail of an extensive sale." P From the Philadelphia Daily Pennsylvanian, of Sep t. 29th, 1853. "Few readers are not familiar with Clara Moreland,' the ' Prairie Flower,' and other thrilling stories of border life, Indian warfare, and prairie life, which have issued from Bennett's pen; and we are sure none who have read those Will omit to read this, his last, best work. An excellent moral attends the tale throughout, and so well is the story told that it is almost impossible to realize that it is fiction." From the Philadelphia City Item, of Oct. lst, 1853. "This is a profoundly interesting story, and, better still,'it is useful-it teaches val- uable lessons. Mr. Bennett is a writer of much ability. During the last three or four years, he has produced several fine books, but this is the ablest achievement of his literary life thus far. It is destined to attain an immense circulation. Mr. Itecrson has issued the book in very handsome style." From the Philadelphia Evening Bulletin, of ,Sept. 24th. "Mr. Bennett is a native author of talent, experience and industry, whose novels are always exceedingly popular. Nor are we surprised at his success, after reading the pre- sent fiction. 'I'he interest of the story begins with the first chapter, and is maintained uI nabated to the close, ever-varying but ever-absorbing. The scene of the tale lies I .principally in the city of New York. Like all Mr Bennett's novels, the moral is an instructive one. Vice, is;tled, triumphs awhile, butonly for awhile; retribution awakes in due season, and virtue is rewarded. To read tales like these cannot be considered a waste of time. 'TI disguise of fiction has been, in all ages. a far more effective way to inculcate lessons of life than dry didactics. W\e pay what we think the highest ;! ,oa ibie compliment to Mr. Bennett wh.!n we say, that he makes his novels as useful as i thiy :v'  ftei ,latil. g1." Published and for Sale by          T. B. PETERSON, ! 30            ilNo. 102 CVhestnut Street, Philadelphia. &i-Read the following pages, containing editorial notices of the work.'ou   "ARA MORELANT. BY EMERSON BENNETT. Price Fifty Cents in Paper Cover; or, One Dollar in Cloth, Gilt. READ THE FOLLOWING OPINIONS OF THE PRESS. "This is decidedly the best novel Mr. Bennett has written. le tells his story well, and while leading the reader over the prairies of Texas into the haunts of the wild Indians, or among the equally savage bands of lawless men, that once were the terror of that country; he presents the remarkable transitions in the fortunes of his hero, in a manner which, though often startling, are yet within the bounds of probability. His dialogue is goQd, growing easily out of the situation and condition of the interlocutors, and presenting occasionally, especially in response, an epigrammatic poise, that is worthy of all praise. The plot abounds with adventure, and presents many scenes of startling interest, while the denouement is such as to amply satisfy the most fastidious reader's ideas of poetical justice. We would add a few words of praise for the excellent style in which this book is gotten up. It is well printed on good paper, and bound in a manner to correspond with the quality of its typography."--Arthur's Home Gazette. "This is the best of Mr. Bennett's books. It is a brilliant and thrilling production, and will particularly interest all who love to read of life in the West and South-West. A love story runs through the volume, lending grace and finish to it Mr. Peterson has issued the book in very handsome style; the type is new and of honest size, the binding is strong and pretty, the paper is firm and white, and the embellishments are eminently creditable. Clara Moreland should command a large sale."-Philadelphia City Item. "On looking more carefully through this racy, spirited narrative of thrilling scenes and wqll-told adventures, we meet with beauties that escape a casual observation. Mr. Bennett is a keen discoverer of character, and paints his portraits so true to nature as to carry the reader with him through all his wild wanderings and with unabated interest. The author of 'Clara Moreland' takes rank among the most popular Ameri- can novelists, and aided by the great energy of his publisher is fast becoming a general favorite."-McMackin's Model Saturday Courier. "Emerson Bennett has written some very creditable productions. This is one of his longest, and is well received. Mr. Bennett is a favorite author with Western readers. It is illustrated and well printed."-Philadelphia Dollar Newspaper. "It is a tale of wild border life and exciting incident, bustle, and turmoil."-Phila- delphia North American. "Mr. Bennett is, in some measure, a new man in this section of the universe, and, as such, our reading public are bound to give him a cordial greeting, not only for this, but for the sake of that widespread popularity which he has achieved in the mighty West, and more especially for the intrinsic excellence that distinguishes his glowing, brilliant productions, of which 'Clara Moreland' may be pronounced the best."-Philadelphia Saturday Courier. "This work is of the most exciting character, and will be enjoyed by all who have a cultivated taste."-Baltimore Sun. '- The scene of this interesting Romance lies in Texas before or during the late war with Mexico. It is written with a great deal of spirit; it abounds in stirring incidents and adventures, has a good love-plot interwoven with it, and is in many respects a faithful representation of Life in the Far South-West. Mr. Bennett is destined to great popularity, especially at the South and West. His publisher has issued this book in a very handsome style."-Ph?ladrlphii Evening Bulletin. "This is a thrilling story of frontier life, full of incident, and graphically sketched. It is published in a good style."-Philadelphia Public Ledger. "This is a spirited narrative of stirring scenes, by Emerson Bennett. Those who love daring adventure and hair-breadth escapes will find it an engaging book."-Detroit, Mich., Paper. "It is a thrilling narrative of South-Western adventure, illustrated by numerous engravings."-Detroit, Mich., Paper. "It is a wondrous story of thrilling adventures and hair-breadth escapes, the scene of which is laid in the South-West. The book is illustrated with engravings represent- ing some of the exciting events narrated by the writer."-Detroit, Mich., Paper. "It is a work replete with stirring adventure. Romance,. incident, and accident, are blended together so as to form a highly interesting work of 334 pages."-New York Picayune. Published and for sale by      T. B. PETERSON, '31            No. 102 Chestnut Street, Pliiladelplhia.  Copies will be sent to any one, free of postage, on receipt of remittanoa   THE ROMAN TRAITOR;  OR, THE DAYS OF CICERO, CATO AND CATALINE. BY HENRY WILLIAM HERBERT, AUTHOR OF s"CROMWELL,     "( TlHE BROTHERS," ETC. READ THE FOLLOWING OPINIONS OF THE PRESS ABOUT IT. From the Philadelphia Satu-rday Courier, of Sept. 10th, 1853. , Thi s historical romance is the most powerfully wrought work which the indomitable geniTs of the author has ever produced; and is amply sufficient of itself to stamp the writer as a powerful man. The startling schemes and plots which preceded the over- * throw of the great Roman Republic, afford ample scope for his well-practised pen, and we may add he has not only been fortunate in producing a work of such masterly pre- tenions, but Mr. Herbert is equally so in the good taste, energy, and tact of his enter- p sing ipublisher. The book is admirably brought out, and altogether may be set down as one of Peterson's ' great hits' in literature." From the Philadelphia Daily Pennsylvanian, of Sept. 8th, 1853. ': The author has made one of his happiest efforts, and given in this volume a tale which will stand the test of the most rigid criticism, and be read by all lovers of litera. ture that embodies the true. the thrilling. the powerful, and the sublime. In fact, we would have thought it impossible to produce such a tale of the Republic in these latter days; but here we have it-Sergius Cataline, Cethegus, Cassius, and the rest of that' dark band of conspirators, are here displayed in their true portraits. Those who have read ' Sallnst' with care, will recognize the truthful portraiture at a glance, and see the heroes of deep and treacherous villainy dressed out in their proper devil-doing character. On the other hand, we have Cicero, the orator and true friend of the Commonwealth of :ome. We have also his noble cotemporaries and coadjutors. all in this volume. Would that space permitted for a more extended notice, but we are compelled to forbear. On,' thing is certain-if this book contained nothing more than the story of Paullus Arvina, it would be a tale of thrilling interest." P From the Ckveland, Ohio, True Democrat, of Spt. 8th, 1853. ',;Those who have perused the former works of this distinguished author, will not fail to procure this book--It is a thrilling romance, and the characters brovght for- ward, and the interest with which they are constantly invested, will insure for it a great run." From the Philadelphia City Item, of Sept. 10th, 18.53. "The Roman Traitor demands earnest commendation. It is a powerful production-- perhaps the highest effort of the brilliant and successful author. A thorough historian and a careful thinker, he is well qualified to write learnedly of any period of the world's history. The book is published in tasteful style, and will adorn the centre-table."  From the Boston Evening Transcript, of Sept. 6th, 1853. , Thi is a powerfully written tale, filled with the thrilling incidents which have made the period of which it speaks one of the darkest in the history of the Roman Republic. The lovers of excitement will find in its pages ample food to gratify a taste for the darker phases of life's drama." From the Philadelphia Sunday Dispatch, of Sept. 4th, 1853. " Cataline's conspiracy has been selected by Mr. Herbert as the subject of this story. Taking the historical incidents as recorded by the most authentic authors, he has woven around them a net-work of incident, love and romance, which is stirring and exciting. The faithful manner in which the author has adhered to history, and the graphic style in which his descriptions abound, stamp this as one of the most excellent of his many sccessful novels." Price for the complete work, in two volumes, in paper cover, One Dollar only; or a ' finer edlition. printed on thicker and better paper. and handsomely bound in one volume, nI mllin. gilt, is published for One Dollar and Twenty-five Cents. ;- 0X ite of either edition of the work will be sent to any person at all, to any part of tlt- Uni1,d 'States, free of postage, on their remittin- the price of the edition they wish, to the publisher, in a lbtter, post-paid. P'ublished and for sale by I              . . P'ETERSON, I n3            No. 10O Chestnut Strevtq Philadelphia. k .             ..    . -      . . - .-    .---- . . DonlL   A   m;Lii3;; IL1 i'-IA llaI          a    U Read the Notices of the Press below.-W  THE           * /ASSM &mG PmAaaOGs Price One Dollar in Cloth, Gilt; or Fifty Cents in Paper Cover. READ THE OPINIONS OF THE PRESS BELOW. "About the genius of' The Cabin and Parlor' there is no mistake. It will not fail to draw tears even from eyes unused to weeping. In respect to practical, far-seeing wis- dom, it is worth all the abstract views that Mrs. Stowe has put on paper. The author is possessed of original powers of a high quality."-B-Wston Post. "Calculated to cause an excitement as great as that of ' Uncle Tom's Cabin! The plot is even better. Nothing overstrained or unnatural in the incidents. Alto- gether the most interesting and important book that has issued from the press for months."--Philadelphia Dollar Newspaper. ! As eloquent a writer as Mrs. Stowe, and one far more just. A more truthful and affecting series of masterly pictures were never painted by pen or pencil. The book noalunds with thrilling incidents. There is no doubt of the brilliant career this book is destined to run, or of the wholesome influence that it must exert."-Sturday Curier. ' There is great narrative and descriptive power in the work, and a true sense of the dramatic and effective. But it is in its argumentative part that it excels all rivalry." Philadelphia Evrening Blldetin. If A more faithful exhibition of the relations between owner and slave cannot be found."-Baltimore Clipler. "It has been suggested that the name of the author is fictitious, while the work is ! fom the pen of a distinguished Marylander."-Cumberland (Md.) Tdegraph. I  The interest increases with every chapter. We hope that Southern people will read this book."--Pioneer, Elizabeth City, (N. C.) "The author has handled his subject in a masterly manner."-Washington (Md.) Democrat. "We earnestly commend it to the perusal of our countrymen "-Baltimore Argus. "It comes at * time when a work of the kind is much needed."-Petersburg (Va) Democrat. "We most cordauly recommend this book to every body who wishes to read a story of thrilling interest, containing true and statesmanlike views on a subject of tiue greatest interest."-Southern (Athens, Ga.) Herald. "The author deserves the thanks of evry true philanthropist, North and South. We hope the work may have a wide circulation."-Caroina tepublican. "The style si graphic and spirited; the characters well arranged and artistically grouped: and the narrative always interesting.'-Baltimore Traveller. "A truthful and unvarnished picture of Southern life. Receives high praise trom the oritics."-New Orleans 2ee. "Decided genius in the work. Evidently written by a candid, fair-judging man. We would advise all who have read ' Uncle Tom' to get the ' Cabin and Parlor.' "-LAton Olive Branch. *"We hal the work with great pleasure, and trust that it will be sown, broad-cast, throughout the land."--New Orleans Delta. "Handles the subject in a masterly manner. A narrative of great interest."-Cooper's (Va.) Register. "A book for the whole country. More interesting, truthful and deserving of favor than any of the kind we have ever yet read."-Kentucky Triune. I This work will be of immense value as a corrective of northern opinion, and equally effective in renovating the literary tastes of our age."-Dalton (Ga.) limea. "Has created a sensation. Is considered to be a decided antidote to the poisonous influences of the notorious ' Uncle Tom.'"--New Orleans Picayune. AZ thrilling story, with such an exposition of sentiments as will meet the approval of the South."-New Orleans Bulletin. i  All who have read the delightful tale of Mrs. Stowe, will do well to read this hardly lew interesting production."-Halifax (Nova Scotia] Times. *' Tie author exhibits descriptive powers almost equal to those of Dickens, and seldom bave we read a more moving or exciting story."-Florida Standerd, "Bears every mark of having been written with candor, and with an honest purpose of speaking the truth. Use fair play, and examine both sides."a-Churc's Bizarre. "Written per contra to I Uncle Tom's Cabin,' and almost as interesting as that fasci- nating book "-Pttsburg lken. Published and for sale by       T. B. PETERSON, 33            No. 102 Chestnut Street, Philadelphla. 3P                                        CoO   L -tead the Notices of the Press below. - WILD OATS            OF T     ABROD. L. Price Seventy-Five Cents in Cloth, Gilt; or Fifty Cents in Paper Cover. READ THE OPINIONS OF THE PRESS BELOW. "A fini, dushing, lively, slap-dash book, just suited to this progressive age and country. It gives the most graphic and humorous account of Paris which has ever appeared. Commend us to a book of this kind, which you take up from your table, expecting to find a dry detail of travels, but find to be a perfect picture of the most curious and extraordinary phases of society which the world presents-a% book which, if you commence reading it in any part, Lolds your attentioi fast till you reach the end."-Scott's Weeklcy. "It is one of the raciest and most original works of its character that we have ever read. The author, who is icog, is evidently a man of the world, and, in his notings of daily and nightly scenes, seems not to have held back anything that was calculated to interest the reader. Some of the incidents, without the drapery of his polished manner of presenting them, might grate a little on propriety with the fastidious, but he has as ingeniously as gracefully covered all indelicacy, and the book goes to the public the freest and frankest series of Sketches published in the last ten years. Gay young men will relish it much, and indeed it is much more suited to men than to women."-Ph',iladelphia Dollar Nelwspaper. "As a railroad and steamboat companion, we know of nothing equal to it. The author slings a. dashing pen, and gives a slap-dash view of matters and things on the continent, that makes his book as amusing as it is in- structive. Get. a Copy."-N. Y. Dutchman. "All who have been abroad will recognize the truthfulness of the state- ments of the author, who has not only 'seen the Elephant,' but takes this occasion to show him up."-Boston Yankee Privateer. "It is written in a free and dashing style."-Old Colony uMemorial, Plymouth. "It is a very entertaining work."-America's Own. "It is a racy and readable collection of sketches of foreign travel."- Boston Littrardy Mutseum. "This is a series of piquant and amusing sketches of travel, dashed off with a free and easy pen, by a writer who has evidently a mortal horror of tediousness, and who has learned one of the most important secrets of authhtrship, viz : to know when one has said enough. Whatever you may think of the felicity of his descriptions, he never bores you with their length. He gives you only the first bloom and freshness of his thoughts, and never seeks to exhaust his subje %t, or squeeze it dry. He tells yot., too, his real, undisguised opinion of the sights and scenes he beholds in En.'land, Switzerland, Venice, and Italy, and goes off 'to order' into no affec'ed raptures and enthusiasm."-Boston Yankee Blade.  Copies of either edition of the work will be sent to any person at all, to any part of the United States, free of postage, on their remitting the price of the edition they wish, to the publisher, in a letter, post paid. Published and for sale by      T. B. rJl';aSON, 34       .      No. 102 Chestnut Street, Philadelphia ?   --      -                 '    XI    KZA       %      J    J X  I I? J        Ij ; on, ADVENTURES IN rHE FAR SOUTH-WEST. r i fi BY EMERSON BENNETT, Complete in one Volume of 336 pages; full of beautiful illustrations. PRICE FIFTY CFNTS IN PAPER COVER; OR ONE DOLLAR A COPY IN CLOTH, GILT. Clara Moreland is truly a celebrated work. It has been running through the columns of "The Saturday Evening Post," where it has been appearing for the last twelve weeks, and has proved itself to be one of the most popular works that has ever appeared in the columns of any newspaper in this country. Before it was half completed, the back numbers (although Twelve Thousand extra of each number were printed,) could not be obtained at any price, and the Publishers of the "Post" were forced to issue a Supplement sheet of the first half of it for new subscribers to their paper, which induced the present publisher to make an arrangement with the popular author, to bring it out In a beautiful style for the thousands in this country that wish it in book form. It is purely an American Book, and one of those interesting and beautiful American Stories, in which the Publisher in its announcemen: feels it a pleasing duty to say one word of its popular and talented author. EWERsoN B..SxNETT, as au Author, is well known throughout the United States; and in the great West. and far extended Southern countries. his writings are recognized as ', Huseaold I / rs-ds"--ever welcome guests in the comfortable cabin of the Western Woodsman or at the parlor fireside of the busy 'own Merchant His glowing and truthful descriptions of Wild Western Scenes-his home-like familiarity with the untaught manners and singular customs of the Indian 'ribes of the Far West-his exquisite delineations of male and female character-of character civilized and of character savage-his bold and artistic sketches in the dark and shadowy wilderness or on the broad and untrodden Prairie-all acknowledge his dominion in this field of literature, and that Bennett now hols undisputed sway in this species of American Story. "We consider this altogether the best fiction which Mr. Bennett has yet written. In saying this, we pay him the highest possible compliment, as he has lona been one of the most popular of American Novelists. His publisher has done every thing that was possible to add to the public desire for the work, having issued it in a very handsome style, so that its dress might not disgrace its merits. Clara Moreland is destined to have an immense sale."-Ladies National Magazine. Price for the complete work, in paper cover, beautifully illustrated, Fifty cents a copy only; or a finer edition, printed on thicker and better paper, and handsomely bound in muslin, gilt, is published for One Dollar. Copies of either edition of the work will be sent to any person at all, to any part of the United States, free of postage, on their remitting the price of the edition they wish, to the publisher, in a letter, post-paid. Published and for sale by IT. B. PETERSON,  35           No. 102 Chestnut Street, Plhiladelplila. ^-----     %   Read the Notices of the Press below. TL   R      BE qWILL. BY EMERSON BENNETT, AUTHOR OF "CLARA MORELAND," "VIOLA," "PIONEER'S DAUGHTER," ETC. Price Fifty Cents in Paper Cover; or, One Dollar in Cloth, Gilt. From a-Review of the ork, written by a elebrate Critic. "This is the last great work of Mr. Bennett, and almost universally pronounced bis master-piece. The scene is laid in the city of New York, and it accurately shows life in the great metropolis. The scenes are. wrought up with great power, and from the first line to the last, the reader is, as it were, held spellbound by the most intense and thrilling interest. Many of the scenes and characters are drawn from real life. Who does not remember the awful fate of poor HLzEN JEWETT, and the trial of Rton'soN for her murder? Their counterpart may be found in Heln Douglass, and Acton Atherton-two characters which figure il this work. It shows you the mansion of the millionaire, and the hovel of poverty; and. lays bare crimes of the greatest magni- tude, long concealed under the mask of a damnable hypocrisy; it shows the struggles of a young man and his sister, who were once. rich. but who were robbed of all their mone b the villainy of their uncle, who, living in splendor in the city on his ill- gotten gains, absolutdly refuses to give their mother. (his own sister.) money enough to buy food to keep her from dying of starvation. And after she is dead, the unfeeling wretch imprisons his nephew one false charge of forgery; while his own base son plots the ruin of his .ousin, (the young man's sister.) and actually succeeds in entrap ping her into a house of bad repute. But, not to enter into detail, we will only add that virtue triumphs in the end, and that villainy meets its just reward. No one cal peruse this story without acknowledging it is a powerful work, and calculated to effect great good. The moral of it isunexcptionabe, and it should be read by the religious portions of our community as well as by the romance readers. It has already been approved of by the ministers of the Gospel, and by pious members of the church; and the author has been more than once congratulated since its appearance for boldly striking into a new field, and elevating his romance to that high moral standard which makes it unexceptionable to the most virtuous, pure, and refined." From the New York International Journal, of Oct. 15th. A native novel, in which the scene is laid in the city of New York, and the inci- dents detailed with a truthfulness of description which constitutes the great charm of Mr. Bennett's writings. In his previous works, Mr. Bennett ha described border life, prairie scenes, and Indian warfare, with a pen so graphic, as to bring the scene bodily before the reader. In The Forged Will,' he deals with every day occurrences of do- mestic town life in the same minute and elaborate way-forcibly reminding us of the descriptionsof Bulwer in' 1Euene Aram,' andotherworks. 'The F'orgedWill' contains throughout a moral of which the reader is never permitted to lose eight-that crime sooner or later leads to retribution, and that virtue even when exposed to severe trials, eventually receives its reward." From the Philaddphia Saturday Courier, of Oct. 15th. "Another edition, in so short a time, of this most exciting work, shows the extraordi- nary interest which it is everywhere exciting, and among all classes of readers. It is truly a most startling and well wrought picture of the great commercial emporium, the city which ranks next to London and Paris in gorgeous profligacy and reckless, squalid crime. New York, with seven hundred thousand inhabitants, its churches, palaces and hovels, is a wonderful city, and Mr. Bennett turns it inside out to the astonied gaze of even its owntizens. Such is the rush for the ' Forged Will,' that on the appearance of the third edition, the enterprising. popular publisher announces his intention of gratifying distant readers, by sending copies through the mail, free of postage, on receipt of fifty cents, the price of the work." From the Philadelphia Christian Observer, of Oct. 8th. This is a work of power, a thrilling story of such incidents as occur in real life, por' traying the guilty in their relations to the virtuous; deeds of hypocrisy and darkness, concealed for a time, yet meeting with the stern retribution merited. It is a picture, mingling light and shade, and teaches that the triumphing of the wicked is short; and that virtue, though it suffer for a brief season, is sure of a due reward." -Published and for ale by         T. B. BP  ETERSON, ls36    1n f    No. 102 Chestnut Street, Philadelphia.  S  Copies will be sent to any one, free of postage, on receipt of remittances   s  'Rea d the Notices   of the Press Below.-'    ( THE Price One Dollar in  Cloth, Gilt; or Fifty Cents in Paper Cover. READ THE OPINIONS OF THE PRESS BELOW. "A most interesting novel. Has received the highest encomiums."--Brftlth North American (Halifax, N. S.) " Occupies in literature the same position as the Compromise measures in legislation." Zion's Advocate (Me.) '"A story fill of interest Will meet with an extensive circulation."--Georgeown (D. C.) Advocate. "We predict for it the fall approbation of the literary and reading public."--Xlorth Carolina Whig. "A thrilling story. Eminently worthy the support of all who love ' truth for truth's sake.' "-Standard (Cassville, Ga.) "The relation between master and slave, at least in Virginia, is truly described. Had we not the work we should buy it."--F oirmount Virginian. "Gives the truth as it is. The story is of deep interest, and contains many thrilling scenes. Simply as a romance must command high praise."--Baltimore Patriot. "The author seems less anxious for the eclat of a great run, than for the reputation of candor and veracity."-Rochcster (N. Y.) Advertiser. "Written to furnish correct views of slavery, and prevent premature action impe. ding the cause of humanity."-Baltimore Advertiser. "Though opposed generally to works of fiction, we think this a story calculated to do good."-Southern Baptist Messenger. "Replete with incidents of thrilling interest. Well conceived, ably narrated, aad contains scenes of great dramatic power."-Christian Observer. "It is not a narrow sectional affair. While it freely paints the evils of slavery, it also fairly shows the difficulties which surround the planter. Will make a decided Aenys tion.'"-Sunday Dispatch "We have resided among our Southern brethren, and can bear testimony to the truth of this humorous and eloquent description of Southern life."-Sunday Ledger. "Far superior to ' Uncle Tom ' in real merit, while of at least equal interest. The author's religion is that of the Bible."-Banner of the Oross. "A book for all parts of the Union, written with a strict eye to the whole truth. We congratulate Mr. Randolph not only on the literary ability displayed in his book, but also on the kindliness of spirit he has shown for all classes."-Scott's Weekly. "IThe tale itself is of thrilling interest. The African character is truly delineated, and the relation of master and slave well defined, and set forth in its true light. It is just such a book as the country needs."-Lancaster (Ky.) Argus. "One of the most interesting books we have ever read. A thousand times more truth- ful than ' Uncle Tom.' There will be a universal rush for it."--Atlanta (a.) Republioan. "It is the words of fact and wisdom in the pleasant garb of fancy."-Tarbprough (N. C.) hutlmer. "The author has shown a perfect acquaintance with southern life and institutions, a perfect command of sentiment and feeling."-Yorkville (S. C.) Remedy. ul Will create a sensation second only to Mrs. Stowe's famous work."-Sunday Mercury. "Written with spiritl The story interesting and pathetic."--Philaddphia NrrtA American. "Abounds with scenes, incidents, and sketches of the most thrilling character."- Pennsylvania Inquirer. "Is destined to reach an immense circulation. Abounds in scenes of thrilling inter- est."-Philadelphia Cgmmercial List. "We predict for it an immense sale."-Neas- Saturday Goaz. "Written with much power."--Germantown Telegaph "Betraying much ability."- City?em. "Story of absorbing interest "--tEvening Dull'n. "This is just the work for the times. The incidents are so thrilling that the reader's attention is fixed after the perusal of the first sentence."--Marlbort (Md.) auette. "Written in a fascinating style. The interest of the reader increases with every new chapter. We hope that Southern people will read this book; we hope that Northern will read it."-Demoeratic (N. C.) Pioneer. "Gives a true account of slavery as it exists in reality."-North Carolina Argum. Published and for sale by        T. B. PE TERSON, 37             NoIo. 10  Chestnut Street, Philadelphia. - '    ieS Read the Notices of the Press below.-Va THE Price One Dollar in Cloth, Gilt; or Fifty Cents in Paper Cover. READ THE bPINIONS OF THE PRESS BELOW. "It seems to have been the object of the writer to avoid extremes, and to convey to the unprejudiced mind a just and adequate realization of slavery, as it exists in its gen- eral and ordinary phases."--Spirit of the Age (N. C.) "Well calculated to counteract the false views of' Uncle Tom,' by showing in the true light the relation between master and slave."-Martinsburg (Va.) Republican. "A handsome work, very superiorly executed. The story a very graphic and inter- esting one, the style of writing scholarly and correct."--Philadelphia Public Ledger. ,  This great work is having the immense sale that we predicted. It isevery where sought after, and devoured with an avidity that has never been surpassed. This is a well-deserved tribute to the brilliant genius, the faithful coloring, and inimitable humor of the author, who deals out his scorching satire with the same overpower- ing force that renders his affecting and touching pictures so irresistible. In another column will be found the testimonials of fifty-six of the leading journals of the country, whose honest convictions we rejoice to see so much in unison with those expressed by the American Courier. These are but small portions of the evidence of that wide-spread interest which this powerful work has awakened, and we hope the demand will not cease until the whole country is supplied. It is a book full of deep interest, imbued with Bible truth, and abounding in appeals to the noblest feelings of our nature, while its philanthropic spirit will meet a universal sympathetic glow in every heart."--aturday Cburier, Fourth Notice of the Work, (Nov. 20th, 1852.) 4' Regarded simply as a Work of amusement, it is one of the most attractive that we have seen for a long time, yet it will be the means of conveying to the minds of thou- sands, truths the very existence of which they never before suspected. If the author could be sent as a lecturer through the Northern States, to proclaim to the people the truths which he has so forcibly illustrated in his book, it could not fail to be of immense benefit to the country."-Piedmont (Va.) Whig. "This is one or the most interesting works of the day. The scenes are sketched by the hand of a master. In this day, when the eyes of millions of'Jellebys' are fixed upon ' Africa,' it will be read, as indeed it ought to be."-Rochester (N. E.) American. ' We can cordially recommend it to our readers as a work of thrilling interest, and well calculated to answer the ends for which the author designed it."-Cent:--ille (dd.) Times. "Presents a just and truthful view of things as they are. It is, altogether, the best work of fiction which we have seen on the subject, and will be read with pleasure and profit."- Spirit of the South. "The author is a lover of the Constitution, eminently patriotic in his feelings, and has produced a volume which will be like oil upon the waters of local jealousy."- Boston Yankee Blade. "The work is well written. We hope it may meet with a large sale, for it calls at- tention to a few of the errors of Northern society, in a manner that we doubt not will prove beneficial to the interests of humanity."-Boston Literary Museum. "The author deserves the thanks of every true philanthropist, North and South. While he throws a tissue of romance around characters drawn from every day life, the golden threads of truth are closely wove in."--Suth Side (Va.) Democrat. "Destined to make a sensation. Will do much to allay angry feelings between the North and South."-British (Nova Scotia) Colonist. "Abounds with thrilling incidents, which unfortunately possess too much sober reality. Of this we are here the best judges, because many of the scenes that arouse our indignation, or extort the sympathetic tear, are drawn from our midst."-Boston Waverley Magaazine. "Every man should procure a copy and read it. The plot is drawn to the life, and the story conducted in a style worthy of the best writers."-State (Ala.) Guard. "A work of exalted merit. We heartily recommend it to public patronage."-Shep- he-dstown (Va.) Register. * "The author has handled his subject in a masterly style."- Westminster (Md.) Democrat. "It is an ably written work, and portrays the slave and master in vry true colors." -Dayton (Ohio) Item.                     - Published and for sale by       T. B. PETERSON, 38            No. 102, Chestnut Street, Philadelphia. ^    Read the Notices of the Press below. 4 TV t YT3 PO)RIED WILL.  BY EMERSON BENNETT, AUTHOR OF "CLARA MORELAN," "VIOLA,"      PIONEER'S DAU HTER," ETC. Price Fifty Cents in Paper Cover; or, One Dollar in Cloth, Gilt. From the Waverley Magazine, Boston, of Oct. 22d. ' The author of this book has been long and favorably known as one of the best novel- ists of the day. We doubt whether there is in all the west an author whose writings have been so universally read, and have received so much attention and praise, as have those of Mr. Bennett. The frequent appearance of his thrilling stories in the columns ofsome of the first literary journals in the country, speaks no less loudly of their worth and excellence, than do the high prices which they at all times command. Though he has often followed in the footsteps of the illustrious Cooper, in describing with a truthful pen the character and eccentricities of the Red Man, the success with which his books have met, proves him most decisively tQ have been no servile imitator, for he who can write a good book, locating the scenes and events on ground passed over by the world-renowned author of ' Leather Stocking Tales,' must, indeed, wield a pen of more than ordinary strength; and this we, without a moment's hesitation, pronounce him to have done. ' Whether as the delineator of border life and wild western scenes, or the more pleasing aspects of civilized life, he ever wields the same graphic pen. The drawing-room and the prairie seem alike familiar to him We can award this book no higher praise than to say it is better than any which have preceded it fron the same pen. The moral of the story which stands out boldly upon every page, cannot fail to produce a good effect upon all by whom the book is read. We are clearly shown, that though the guilty and vicious may for a while elude detection and exposure, virtue will eventually triumph and meet its just reward." From the Christian Freeman, Boston, of Oct. 15th. "Mr. Bennett has already gained a wide popularity through his works before pub- lished. lie has written several stories, the scenes of which have been laid along Air western borders, and for delineation of border life and character he has no superior. The scenes of the present volume are laid in New York, and the story throughout is of deep interest, and conveys a powerful moral lesson. The characters arc all life-like, and drawn with a skillful and brilliant pen. The publisher has issued the book in a hand- some and substantial style." From the Boston Liberator, of Oct. 14th. "The author of this work is, we believe, a western writer, who has attained con- siderable popularity in that section of the country, by his tales of border life and ad- venture. The scene of the story before us is laid in the city of New York, and the striking contrasts of that vast metropolis-its wealth and luxury, and its poverty, vice and crime-are vividly portrayed. Occasional passages of true and natural feeling, or of startling power, reveal the capabilities of the author, and give the assurance that he is equal to a work that shall bear the test of a higher criticism than The Forged Will.' The moral of the story is a good one. It shows that guilt, however triulmnplant for a season, meets its just retribution at last, and that virtue and integrity, which resist the assaults of temptation, seldom fail of their * recompense or reward.' The book is - got up' in a neat and attractive manner, as are tall the woiks from the house of its enterprising publisher." From the Boston tankee Blade, of Oct. 15th. "This is one of the best of Mr. Bennett's novels. In reading it, you are vexed by no tedious preliminaries, but find yourself embarked at once on the full tide of the nar- rative, and swept along irresistibly. Unlike his other novels, the scene is laid, not among the fiery, impulsive, and hot-blooded inhabitants of the southwest-the early pio- neers of civilization, whose peculiarities the author so delights in describing-but in the city of Now York, where is enacted a drama as thrilling as any tragedy of border life or Indian warfare. The romance is full of interest, and lovers of excitement will devour it greedily." From the Jordan Transcrit, V. Y., of Oct. 21st. "This is a capital story-one of the best ever written by Bennett. The scenes are principally laid in the city of New York, and show the author to be equally successful in this respect as in portraying 'life in th'" far southwest.'" Published and for Sale by         T. B. PETERSON, 39            No. 109 Chestnut Street, Philadelphia.  Copies will be sent to any one, free of postage, on receipt of remittances   civil     4P1 5,1 THE FORBED WTILLS  BY EMERSON BENN 'r', AUTHOR OF "CLARA MOREiLANDI," "VIOLA,"   PIONEER'S DAUGHTER," ETC. Price Fifty Cents in Paper Cover; or, One Dollar in Cloth, Gilt. Prom the Philadelphia Daily Public Ledger, of Sept. 2(th. "This is a novel of absorbing interest, the author possessing a power of fascinating the reader by his skill in connecting and developing the main incidents of his story. The scenes are life-like, and the moral excellent. Sometimes a (ood novel is found the very best medium for conveying a useful lesson when other nmns fail. Mr. Bten- nett has succeeded in giving his story this character, for it cannot be read but with profit. Three editions have been published." Frlom the Philadelphia Arthur's Home Gaxette, of Oct. Sth. "I Mr. Bennett is a novelist of undoubted ability. In the present work, the plot is well arranged, the incidents natural, and the dialogue easy, sparkling and unaffected. Accustomed as he has been of late. to select his principle characters from among the fiery, impulsive, and half-lawless inhabitants of the South and South-west. or from those hardy, brave, but reckless pioneers, who form the first waves of advancing civilization in the gradually receding wilderness, we were no less surprised tian gratified to find his delineations of domestic scenes within the narrow but more polished sphere of a city, as skilfully executed as the ruder and more salient characteristics which attach to the life of those who people, at wide intervals, the forest and the prairie." PFrom the Boston Daily Advertiser, of Oct. 7th. "The Forged Will; or, Crime and Retribution. Mr. Bennett is a native author, and lays the scene of this novel in New York. The inferest of the plot commences with the first chapter, and is maintained throughout-villainy gaining temporary suc- cess, but virtue and justice in the end being triumphant. The story\is quite fasci- nating, and will increase Mr. Bennett's popularity as a writer." Prom the Philadelphia Dollar Newisaper, of Oct. 5th "The Forged Will,' by Emerson Bennett. The publisher has issued a very henuti- ful edition of this popular work. In point of elegance and beauty of finish. it will vie with the finest of the holiday works; one edition of it being printed on fine paper, and most beautifully bound. The story is one of the most popular brought before the public in many months, and promises to have a sale second only to Uncle Tom's Cabin.' The cheap edition is sold at fifty cents per copy, and will be sent to any part of the Union, free of postage, on receipt of that sum." Prom Peteron's Ladies' National Magazine. for November. "A story of absorbing interest, and one that will have an immense sale. The author seizes the reader's attention in the very first chapter. and triumphantly retains it until the very last. Mr. Bennett is always successful in his fictions, but he has never, we think, been as successful as in this. It is published in a handsome style. A cheap edition is in paper covers, and one bound in cloth extra at a higher price." From the Boston Olive Branch, of Oct. Sth. "This book is one of the most thrilling native productions that we have ever read, and yet the incidents are so true to nature. so life-like, that the reader can searclyl v realize the fact that he is renaing fiction. The sketches of the - Abode of the Unfortu- nate,' and of the interview between the 'Betrayer and his Victim,' possess the most absorbing interest."  rom the Chicago Daily Ciruravt, of Oct. 3d. "Eierson Bennett is not only the most readable writer in the west, but he ranl s as well among the most industrious. - Within the past several years he has matufacttred five or six right readable productions, that in Cincinnati and the western valleys have made him distinguished as a writer of fiction. The work before us bears unmistakalle evidence of the skill in working up characters with dramatic effect of the author; and we have no doubt that the ' Forged Will' will be a favorite with those who have leisure andjlination to read romance, when clothed in the drapery of modest language." Published and for Sale by         T. B. PETERSON, 40            No. 102 Chestnut Street, Philadelphia. S  Copies will be sent to any one, free of postage, on receipt of remittances   vco  Cfeacl  the Notices of the Press below. j THE OR, SLAVES AND MASTERS. Complete in One Duodeoimo Volume of 338 pages. BY J. THORNTON RANDOLPH. Prom a Review of the Work, written by a Celebrated Critic. "Tnn CABIN AND PARLOR" is a book for the whole country, and not for one section only. It is intended to allay, not excite. local jealousies. It is free from all bias of party. Every person who values the Constitution framed by Washington and his co-patriots or loves " truth for truth's sake," should have a copy of this work. The author is a gentleman who has travelled both North and South, so that his descrip- tions are both faithful and accurate; indeed, nearly every incident described in the volume, he has personally witnessed. The narrative, though thus substantially true, is as thrilling as the moat engrossing novel. Never, perhaps, has a bork so interesting In every respect, been offered to the American public. The spirit of enlarged philanthropy which pervades the book, is not its least recom- mendqtion. The author is a true and wise friend of his race, and not a quack in morals, as so many modern writers are. Ilis religion is that of the Bible, ntl not mere var- nished infidelity. From the Dollar Newspaper of Septmber 15th, 1852. THE CABIN AND THE PARLOR.-This is the title of a new work, which Mr T. B. Peter- son has in press, and wfich, we are assured, following as it does. Mrs. Stowe's popular work of ' Uncle Tom's Cabin," will create no little sensation in the public mind. It cawnot th called a "Companion to Uncle Tom's Cabin," or to "Aunt Phillis' Cabin," for we are told, it takes a broader and a higher ground than either of these admirable works of fiction and of fact. The real name of the author, we are inclined to think, does not appear, though we have reason to know that the work is the production of a gentleman and scholar, whose noble Essays on Colonization, and the relative position of the North and South. in the Compromise on the Slavery question, have been quoted with praise by the united press of the country. The book will contain over three hundred pages. Prom the Evening Argus of September 7th, 1852. CABIN AND PARLOR.-T. B. Peterson, No. 98 Chestnut Street, has in press and will pub. lish in a few days, a new work, entitled, ' The Cabin and the Parlor, or Slaves and Mas. ters," from the pen of J. Thornton Randolph. It will be a most interesting work, and cannot fail to enjoy a wide circulation at this particular time, when the popular mind is directing its enquiries in this peculiar vein of the social relations of life. From Neal's Saturday Gazette of September 4th, 1852. "THB CABIN AND PARLOR."-Under this h-. I i new novel is advertised in this weok's Gazette. We have read a few of thu, opening chapters, and they certainly are thrillingly written. We regard it as the most comprehensive work that has yet appeared on the subject, and believe that it will circulate by tens of thousandss. Prom the Daily Sun of September Sth, 1852. THi CABIN AND PARLOR, OR. SLAVES AND MASTERS.-T. B. Petcrson. No. 98 Chestnut Street, has in press and will shortly i sue, a new work with the above'title. It is written by an eminent author, and cannot fail, it is thought, to obtain as wide a circulation as "Uncle Tom's Cabin." It is published complete in one large duodecimo volume of 336 pages, with large. full- page, magnificent Illustrations, executed in the finest style of the art, from original designs, drawn by Stephens, and printed on the finest and best of plate papel. Price for the complete work, in paper cover, beautifully illustrated. 50 rents a copy only; or a finer edition, printed on thicker and better paper, and handsomely bound in muslin, gilt, is published for One Dollar. A copy of the work will be sent to any person at all, to any place in the United Statep, free of postage. on their remitting ,50 cnts to the publisher, in a letter, post-paid; or two copies will be sent free of Postage for One Dollar. Published and for Sale by      T. B. PlTERSOrN "             No. 102 Chestnut Street, Philnd..    elphaER   Ur  Read the Notices of the Press below. - TI B UAZ2S AND PA3103P I on, SLAVES AND MASTERS. Complete in One Duodecimo Volume of 336 pages. BEAUTIFULLY ILLUSTRATED. BY J. THORNTON RANDOLPH. Read the following Notices of the      'reas in relation to it. Prom the ,Saturday Courier of September 25th, 1852. "THE CABIN AN; THE PARLOR," announced already in our advertising columns, by Mr. T. B. Peterson. is altogether a different kind of work, from that which. some weeks since, So seriously disappointed the public expectation. The work now announced will shortly make its appearance, and the slight inkling which we haw of its author, in spite of his incog, satisfies us that we may anticipate a production worthy of the subject. That subject, so intensely affecting all the vital relations of this great republic, the subject of slavery, as it exists in reality, and not in fiction, will he presented in just such a light as the honest and honorable American may view without a blush. While occupying a high, national position. the work, or we mistake its author, apart from its enlarged spirit of philanthropy, will possess an intense and thrilling interest. We impatiently await its appearance, and are prepared to award it the hearty reception that we have in times past, bestowed upon other productions of its presumed anthor. This volume. as we learn from the publisher, is to be sold at the low price of fifty cents a copy, in paper cover, or a finer edition, One Dollar, in cloth, gilt, a fact we note with the more satisfacr tion as indicative of the rapid career it is destined to run in spreading its healthful influence over the land. F'omn ScW's Weekly of September 25th, 1852. A NEW NovE.--The "CABIN AND PARLOR," is the title of a new novel, which will- appear shortly. It is from the pen of agentleman of well known literary reputation of this city, and as there is no city, perhaps, in the whole Union, where there is a more healthy feeling with regard to non-interference with the designs of its brethren North and South, it is but fair to conjecture that the author, like his fellow citizens, has infused this spirit into his book. Those who have seen the proof-sheets assure us that the CABIN AND PARLOR" is certain of great success, on account of the wholesome truths it disseminates. It is not an answer to, nor a companion of. any publication yet issued. The author has traveled during the past year, through most of the states in the Union, with the view of obtaining proper material, he having long since conceived the idea no* put into print. The book will be published and for sale by T. B. Peterson, Nos. 97 and 98 Chesnut Street. From the Daily Sun of September 18th, 1852. THE CABIN AND THE PAnLOR.-This is the title of a new work, which Mr. T. B. Peter- son has in press, and which, following Mrs. Stowe's popular work of ' Uncle Tom's Cabin," will create no little sensation in the public mind. It cannot be called a "Com- panion to Uncle Tom's Cabin," or to "Aunt Phillis' Cabin," for we are told, it takes a broader and higher ground than either of these admirable works of fiction and of fact. The real name of the author does not appear, though we know that the work is the production of a scholar, whose noble Essays on Colonization, and the relative position of the North and South, in the Compromise on the Slavery question, have been quoted with praise by the united press of the country. The book will contain over three hundred pages, illustrated, and will be afforded at 50 cents per copy, in paper cover; or a finer edition in cloth, gilt, for One Dollar. It can be sent by mail. Prom the Evening Bulletin of September 4th, 1852. Tia CABIN AND THE PARLOR is a new work advertised in our columns, by T. B. Peter- son, which, we have reason to believe will create a sensation, second only to ; Uncle Tom's Cabin." It is not strictly an answer to Mrs. Stowe's novel. though it is onthe same engrossing theme. It takes the broader and higher ground. avoids the sophisms of that fascinating work, and is emphatically a book for the whole country, and for all who love the Constitution and laws. We have l1een assured, by a gentleman who has read the proof-sheets. that the story is of absorbing interest, and founded on fact. Published and for Sale by    T. B. PETERSON, 42             Nu. 1Lo; CheMilut Street, Phtiladelphta. 8ff   X             --- *    St   eaa the Notices of the Press below. a THE QABL7 LED PA3LXLOi  Price, Fifty Cents in paper; or One Dollar in Cloth Gilt. Front the Philadelphia Evening Bulletin, of October 16th, 1852. "There is more talent displayed in this novel than in all the other replies to Mrs. Stowe's 'Uncle Tom's Cabin' put together. The author has greater skill in the construction of the story; more vigor of style and more power in argument than any of those who have taken up the defence of the South against the exaggerations and fanaticism of abolitionists. No one can deny that such pictures of suffering as he describes are really to be found in the North, and they are a fair match for Mrs. Stowe's high-colored sketches of slave-suffering in the South. "There is great narrative and descriptive power in the work, and a true sense of the effective and dramatic. But it is in its argumentative part that TnE CABIN AND PARLOR excels all rivalry. In this, indeed, it comprehends all that can be said in defence of the South and Southern institutions. We believe and hope that it will do much to allay the ill-feeling existing between the two divisions of our country." From Neal's Saturday Gazette, of October 16th, 1852. "This is the fairest hit at 'Uncle Tom's Cabin' yet made. The story of Horace is a most touching one; that of Charles and Cora, the fugitive slaves in a northern city, of intense interest. The style of the book is that of  vigorous and practised writer, and it is destined to make a sensation. It will, moreover, do much to allay angry feelings between the North and South. We predict for it an immense sale." From the Philadelphia Christian Observer, of October 16th, 1852. "This is an admirable work. The tale is replete with incidents of thrilling interest. It is well conceived, ably narrated, and contains scenes of great dramatic power. It depicts, in strong colors, the evils to which the blacks and the laboring poo are exposed in our Northern States, a riot in Phila- delphia, with notices of the miserable condition of the poor in England and Ireland. It will be deemed, we think, worthy of the special attention of those ho have read 'Uncle Tom's Cabin.' " From the Philadelphia Banner of the Cross, of Oct. 16th, 1852; edited by the Rev. Frederick Ogilby. "This is decidedly the best among the many books which have appeared since the publication of ' Uncle Tom's Cabin,' and is far superior to it in real merit, while of at least equal interest. The author informs us that it has been written in the hope that it may lead to broad and correct views on the subject of slavery.' His religion is that of the Bible, not the vile infidelity of modern abolitionism. We are assured that the story is founded on fact. It is embellished with numerous handsome illustrations, from original de- signs, by Stephens." Fromt the Philadelphia North American, of October 14th, 1852. "THR CABIN AND PARLOR will attract a duie share of public attention nnd favor. Fromi what we have read, it seems to be written with spirit-the story beilg intenc.-ting :and pathetic." Published and for Sale by      T. B. PETE1lt'ON ^43       KNo. 102 Chestnut Street, Philadelplia.   I,-Read the Notices of the Press below. "T THE Price, Fifty Cents in paper; or One Dollar in Cloth Gilt. From the Norfolk (Va.) Daiiy Dlews, of Oct. 15th, 1852.1; TiR CABIN AND PARIOR.-"This is the title of a work lately issued by T. B. Peterson Qf Pbiladelphia, and is designed e a corrective of the mis- chievous errors and misrepresentations circulated by Harriet Beecher Stowe in her late libel on the South. After a careful peusal, undertaken from a sense of duty and continued with delight, we do not hesitate to pronounce THE CABIN AND PARLOR to be eminently deserving of an extensive circula- tion. It isecidedly superior to the late publications on the subject of which it treats, and apart fi'om the correctness of its views and just delineation of slarvery, it is one of the most readable books, both as regards the interest of the narrative and beauty of style, that has ever fallen under our notice. No one possessing a mind sensitive to tender impressions and simplicity of description can read such passages as the death of Horace and the trials of Isabel without emotion. "'As the false views and evil tendencies of 'Uncle Tom's Cabin' can only be counteracted by works, which from their popular style and pleasing narra- tive will be read, we think that the author and publisher of the book before us deserve the gratitude and support of every true lover of his country. This can be best evinced by purchase and recommendation of the work. Fifty cents, or One Dollar, according to choice of binding, remitted to the publisher, will insure a copy by return of mal, free of postage." From the Baltimore Daily Jrgus, of Oct. 16th, 1852. Justefrom the Press.---THe CalN AN], PART-OR; OR, SLAvES AND MASTERS. --- We announced some time since, that this volume was in the press, and would soon be before the public. We are glad to find it so soon ready for circulation. The false views so widely propagated by the circulation of 'Uncle Tom's Cabin,' can only be met fairly by a work in equally popular style, which shall follow it to the fireside of our countrymen, and expel the errors which have been lodged in the imind by Mrs. Stowe's fiction. "'We earnestly recommend the CABI,' AND PARLOR to the perusal of our countrymen, believing that it is well calculated to dissipate the prejudices and animosities which have unfortunately existed in some sections of our country, and to beget in all minds a deeper feeling of respect for the wisdom which framed our admirable institutions, tand a fuller determination .to re- spect the rights and privileges of all, and thus perpetuate the blessings of our glorious Union undimmed to coming ages." From the Baltimore Daily Su,11, of Ortober 14th, 1852. "We have received a copy of THE CABIN AND PARIOR; OR, SLAVES3 AND MASTnRS, by J. Thornton Randolph. The worlk is published by T. B. Peter- son, Philadelphia, and is freely embellished. It is a transcript of real life in the free and in the slave States, with a view to the illustration of the social condition of the colored race, slave and free. The story is well Written, the plot elaborated with much ingenuity, and the characteristics of the colored race sustained by a skilful hand. It seems to have been the object of the writer to avoid extremes, and to convey to the unprejudiced mindl a just anld adequate realization of slavery, as it exists in its general and ordinary phases throughout the South. In this it will no doubt be conceded, by all whllose ex- perience enables them to judge of the fact, that he has been quite succeessful." Published and for Sale by     T. B. PETERSON, "           No. 1'02 Chestnut Street, Philadelpheat k L-=----I. H-   H-   GREAT INDUCEMENTS        TO SUBSCRIBE!  Olnly Onl e Dollar and T  c He i y-fti e Ce ntfti a year for a Magazine tvhlere  EIig,t eoDies are  .akeei in onie 'Fown. NOW   IS THE  TIME TO O IMAI E  UP  YOUR  CIUBSSI PETERSON'S MAGAZINE. The Cheapest, Best & Most Popular Ladies' Magazine in the    Wlorld EDITED  BY MRS. ANN. S. STEPHENS and CHAS. J. PETERS N. PETERSON.'S LADTES' N ATIONL MJG AZINE, contains about 800 pages of double column, Original Matter yearly; from 30 to 40 costly teel Plates; and nearly 300 Wood En- gravings. ITS LITERARY CHARACTER UNRIVALLED, No other Periodical publishes such Thrilling Tales or such capital Stories of Real Life, the most eminent American writers in this department being engaged to contribute to its pages, most of them exclusively.  At the ir head is Mrs. AsNN S. STEPI'HNs, whose Lo- mances are unequalled in power and beauty.  Morality and virtue are always incul. cated. The Newspaper Press and the Ladies unite to pronounce this the most readable of the Mafarines. It is also the only original one of its class,-the only one thoroughly Anierican.   t ITS MAGNI ICENT AND UNEQUALLED          EMBELLISHMENTS. Its Illustrations excel those of any other Magazine, each number containing one or more Steel Engravings, either Mezzotint or Line, besides the Fkshion Plate; and, in addition. numerous Wood Cuts. The Publisher pays the highest prices to have the very best Engravings. The Engravings:  at the end of the year, alone are worth the subscrip- tion price. ITS COLORED FASHON PLATES IN ADVANCE. I*- It is the only Magazine w/hose Fashion Plates can be relied on iYA These Plates are engraved on Steel, by first-rate artists, from patterns received in ad- vance, all colrred, a la mode. A comparison between this Magazine and others. in this respect, is challenged. The "(Gossip about the F asions," published in each number, is fuller, better, and later, than can be }1had elsewhell re at any price. In the lEastern cities this work is universally held to be the text-book oqf fashion. BES'r LADIES' MAGAZINE       IN  THE  WORLD. In addition, each number contains every thingt that a Lady diesires in such a Parlor Companion. Its departments for Nev. Receipts, Crotchet Work. Emb:nlroidery, Netting, 1Horticulture, aind Female Equstrianism, are always well ilhle d, proftsely Illustrated, and rich with the latest Novelties. The Publisher offers it to the sex as thie best Lady's Magazibe in the World; and only asks a trial of its merits %br one year. TERMS,-ALWAYS IN ADVANCE. One copy for one year,   - $2 00 Five copies for one year, . $7 50 Three copies for one year, -   6 00  Eight copies for one year,   10 00 Sixteen copies for one year,   -   -    $20 00 PREMUMS FOR GETTING UP CLUBS. The fo lowing magnificent 'lremicnl1ms 1ir1e offretdl t.0 pt rsons gettingl up Cluis: 1,r a C lub of Ti'ree S'thscriber.. .itlher "Thlle O(tmus of Art," ort .. rle Analll or Plates for } 18;t," each containing Thirty Sulperb Steat I Engravings. Fr a Club of Five Subscri- bers, the samle. For a Clubof E'ylht Substcriers, both -'Ilhe 4lem s," lid " The Annual," containing together Sixty Plates. Fr a Clubt of Sixteena S'ubscribcr., au extra copy for 1864, and either -'The G(enm.," or "The Annual." Address, post-paid, CHARLES J. PETERSON,            , A Specimen sent when desired .    o. 10;4 Clihetnut St., Plliladelphia. -54  iS X- b   CWTFAPEST FAMLY NEWSPAPER IN TkE WORILD!  THEE DOLLAR NEWSPAPER g AFFORDED TO SINGLE SUBSCRIBERS  AT ONLY ONE DOLLAR PER YEAR.  It is now in the tenth year of its existence, and printed on a large Imperial sheet. AS A FAMLY NEWSPAPER,  It has won wide fame, being devoted to all the interests of Trade and Business, to Light Literature, and to the various matters which contribute to the formation of a complete Family Fireside Companion, in which amusement and instruction    I predominate.                                 .  ' The Publishers of the "NEWSPAPER" challenge comparison with the largest of its rivals for public favor, as to the amount of useful reading that it contains. Declning to publish long advertisemebts, it manages, by the use of small, clear type, compactly f bestowe'l, to contain as much reading matter that is instructive and profitable, for ONE DOLLAR, as the larger sheets give for TWO DOLLARS. ITS ORIGINAL DOMESTIC STORIES Have acquired for it a wide popularity, and to maintain favor hi this respect, F!"l HUNDRED DOLLARS have been offered by the publishers, in premiums, for the best Original Stories that shall be sent in before the 15th of November, 1853-$300 for the  best; $100 for the second ; $60 for the third, aud $40 for the fourth. These premiums, it is fair to pr. sume, will call forth socme very superior stories, so that we risk little in saying that this department, the coming year, will at least equal what it has been at the best period in the previous existence of the ' Newspaper." AS AN ADDITIONAL PREMUM,  The Publishers renew the offer originally made by them to Post-towns, as follows: "That Post-office of any town in the Union, from which we shall receive the great- est number of subscribers to the Dollar Newspaper, during the year, between the 1st of June, 1853, and the 1st of June, 1854, (the papers to be mailed to such post-office, or to subscribers through it, shall be entitled to a continuance of the whole number of the subscriptions, gratuitously, for one year after the expiration of the year for which their subscriptions shall have been paid. The papers will be continued on, either to the subscribers themselves, or to the agents from whom we may receive the orders for quantities, and to whom the packnge or packages may be directed, or both, if there should be both in the same town, as the case may be." The following are its Terms per Year: For .1, one copy, one year.      Ibr $25, thirty-four copies, one year. For S5, six copies, one year.     obr $30, forty-two copies, one year. For $10, thirteen copies, one year.  For $35,fifty copies, one year. Ibr $15, twenty copies. one year.   Ibr $50, seventy-five copies, one year. For $20, twenty-seven copies, one year.  On AGRICULTURAL SUBJECTS, it has secured the services, as correspondents,  of a large number of intelligent Practical Cultivators in various sections of the Union, who furnish, in the most acceptable form, results of the workings of various theories, the improvement of Soils, the application of Manures, the most productive Crops, and  the hundred other matters that interest the Husbandman. In this respect "'TIIE DOLLAR NEWSPAPER" has no rival, and it is the intention of the Publishers that 5 it shall not lose any of the high reputation that it has earned, WJV JM 3   3VC A% XL XK 3ES 23 Q ,              Wholesale anld Retail-Prices of Cattle, of Produce, &c., &c. The important subjects that come under this head are minutely attended to, and  more fully reported than in any other Family Weekly Paper in the country. In con- nection with this matter. a Bank Note List. the lRates of Discount, a notice of till new Countlerfeit and altered Notes. with the Rates of Dome4tic Exchange, are regularly  published. after undergcoing careful reviion and correction. Besides these, the pric-s  of the staple products of the country in all the principal markets, as well as the price I of cattle in all the Atlantic cities, are condensed into a prief space in each number. f A. 11. SIMMONS & CO., Publishers,  S. W. Orner of Third and Ohesnut Streets, Philud'a.     
         
       
   
