
    ----CITATION----
        Kirkland, Caroline M. (Caroline Matilda), (1801-1864). A Book for the Home Circle, or, Familiar Thoughts on Various Topics, Literary, Moral and Social .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC7025
    ----FULL TEXT----
         
       
          
             
            
                
             
             
            
                
             
          
          
             
             
               A BOOK FOR THE HOME CIRCLE; 
               OR, FAMILIAR THOUGHTS ON VARIOUS TOPICS, LITERARY, MORAL AND SOCIAL. 
               A COMPANION FOR THE EVENING BOOK. 
             
            BY MRS. KIRKLAND, AUTHOR OF "A NEW HOME," "HOLIDAYS ABROAD," ETC. ETC. 
            
               NEW YORK: 
               CHARLES SCRIBNER, 145 NASSAU STREET.
             
            1853. 
             
            Entered according to Act of Congress, in the year 1852, by CHARLES SCRIBNER, In the Clerk's Office of the District Court for the Southern District of New York. 
            
               Stereotyped and Printed by C.W. BENEDICT, 201 William Street, N. Y.
             
          
          
             
            LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS. 
             
               READING FOR AMUSEMENT (VIGNETTE TITLE). 
               LION-HUNTING. 57
                
               FASHIONABLE AND UNFASHIONABLE (FRONTISPIECE), 102
                
               IS FATHER A BEAR, SAY? IS MOTHER AN ELEPHANT? 127
                
               MRS. PELL'S PILGRIMAGE, 144
                
               FAITH AND FORTUNE, 215
                
               HARD WINTER, 273
                
               SPRING IN THE WOODLANDS, 277
                
             
          
          
             
             
            CONTENTS. 
             
               READING FOR AMUSEMENT, 12
                
               PHILOSOPHICAL NOVELS, 35
                
               AUTHORS, 47
                
               LION-HUNTING, 57
                
               AUTOGRAPHS, 70
                
               LITERARY WOMEN, 75
                
               ABOUT PRESENTS, 88
                
               FASHIONABLE AND UNFASHIONABLE, 102
                
               NEATNESS, 130
                
               LENDING BOOKS, 137
                
               MRS. PELL'S PILGRIMAGE, 144
                
               SENSE, COMMON AND UNCOMMON, 162
                
               SINECURES; or a Country Minister's Day, 182
                
                
               ECONOMY, 190
                
               COMFORT, 197
                
               FAITH AND FORTUNE. (A Romance of Central America), 215
                
               MISTAKES FROM EXPERIENCE. (A Sketch from Life), 241
                
               RECOLLECTIONS OF RURAL LIFE IN THE WEST, 253
                
               SPRING IN THE WOODLANDS, 277
                
               IS PATIENCE A VIRTUE? (An Autobiography), 303
                
             
          
       
      
         
            A book for the home circle, or, Familiar thoughts on various topics, literary, moral and social 
             
                
               INTRODUCTORY CHAPTER. 
               HUMAN LIFE has so often been compared to a stream-a swift current, full of dangerous rapids-that the aptitude of the image must be considered fully established; so fully, indeed, that whoever determines to be original on the subject, will rather rack his brain for a less obvious figure-even though it should lack some of the truth of this one-than use once more what was used up long ago. But sitting on the rocky ledges of Trenton Falls, one blessed day last summer-with a ribbed roof grander than that of the Pantheon above my head, and masses of foliage, light as feathers next the sky, but deepening into brown shades as they approached the water, clothing the wild cliffs through which the eye strove in vain to follow the rushing flood-I could not but think of the good old simile, and acknowledge that though threadbare, it can never wholly wear out. Gazing fixedly on the stream, as it glistened in the sunlight, or sank away in black eddies where a huge rock broke its course, at first all seemed mere confusion, blind hurry, aimless effort or sluggish failure. Surely those bubbles could be subject to no law: such tumult could be only destruction. There could be no hope of safety among those roaring torrents. There was an inevitable hurry of the spirits from merely watching the stream. I could not help wishing it would flow by, or at least stop a little, that I might rest a moment from the sound of its thrilling voice, and the sight of its dazzling swiftness. I loved better the little quiet side-rills, that came stealing round among the fissures in the broad ledges, under the shade of boughs, not melancholy but only modest and tender, by comparison with the bold torrent. Pure and gentle, musical though not loud, these tributary streams reminded me irresistibly of some lines we have all seen-content to swell the great tide unrecognized-to contribute without receiving. They ask no immunity-steal no selfish repose; ceaseless, unsleeping, as the noisy river, they do their work unnoticed; willing ministers, seeking strength from Heaven alone. 
               But looking long and often at the great stream, we fail not to discover its subjection to immutable laws, and to see that its very bubbles are under control, as much as the everlasting rocks which they reflect in faithful miniature. Yon cresting spray has its rule: in an instant it must sink into the black pool whose surface the sunshine never reaches. That great glassy wave, so seeming still that you might almost think it frozen, approaches the fall which will dash it into millions of fragmentary drops, part of which will rise in mist to hang trembling on the delicate branches of those bending elms, while the rest rush wildly on, over tumbling rapids and glorious rainbows, yet destined, at last, only to turn a mill a little further down! 
               But the scene assumes a new character-a truly human interest, when a young man-a fine youth-who has spent his childhood in watching these waters, till he knows every fall and rapid-every pool and eddy, by heart, after drawing a little skiff laboriously up the rocky platform, launches it, and himself, fearlessly on a series of rapids that threaten swift destruction to one less acquainted with their laws. See the skill and accuracy with which he poises himself in the fairy vessel, with firm hand grasping the rudder, with keen, watchful eye scanning the course which alone can bear him safely through a thousand yawning deaths that wait on either side. Now a swift descent threatens to engulf him; now a whirling eddy tries to dash him against those sharp ledges. The wreaths of foam that follow and surround him, make one feel as if the water-spirits were fighting for their prey. We to the unwary who shall tempt these treacherous depths! No friend, however strong and watchful-no human power that could be summoned to this deep, lonely spot-this cleft in earth's green bosom-could avail him for an instant. Down, down he must go, into flinty caves so horrible, that if even the relics of his youth and beauty should come again to the light of day, his own mother would not know her child! But no; he has too long studied the danger and the safety from the shore to make a single blunder in his steering. On he goes, triumphant-let us hope not vain-glorious-in his youthful strength and skill. On he goes, sometimes half-hidden by the dancing spray, and again emerging on what seems, from its stillness, a mere platform of water. Below is a fall, but that he avoids by quietly mooring his boat before it nears the treacherous edge; and at length, panting a little, but happy in his success, he sits down quietly under this rocky roof, and enjoys repose the sweeter for past labours. 
               I do not intend to tire my readers by a long exposition and application of my old-fashioned simile, drawn, as it is, from realities that filled the eye and excited the imagination as only Nature's can. But when I sat down to write a few words of introduction for this unpretending book of mine, I could not but think that we who record our observations and conclusions on the subject of life and character, are trying, in a humble way, to give those who are about launching upon the great stream, some such theoretical knowledge of its course and dangers, as that possessed by the young hero of the skiff. Something may be learned by observing the current from the shore; and if there be-as, indeed, there too truly are-dangers from which only heavenly Goodness can guard us, there are also those from which sober advice may perhaps turn us aside. At least, such is ever the cheering hope of the moralist, whether grave or gay; and happily there are found docile and gentle listeners, to accept kindly what is well intended, even though the aid it offers be small and seemingly unimportant. 
               The volume now offered to the public, under the shelter of a title dear to my heart-THE HOME CIRCLE--is, in truth, another 'Evening Book,' such as found favour a year ago. It embraces Essays, short and long, on various subjects, Sketches from Life, and Delineations of Character. The West, which makes an indelible impression on whoever remains in it long enough to catch its spirit, is represented, almost of course; for my interest in it is undiminished; while from other sources a habit of observation is always gleaning something which it is natural to record, in hope of sympathy, if not of usefulness. As a whole, I would hope the collection is not inferior to its predecessor of last year, though of this I am, perhaps, not the best judge. 
               One paper it contains of especial interest to me-the concluding story, the substance of which was written by my mother, although in its present form it may be called mine. All its charm is truly hers; and I wrote it over only because she lacked the practice necessary to give due effect to thoughts full of vigour and sprightliness. Her pen was to her an amusement during long years of affliction and ill-health: if she had devoted herself to it as a profession, I should have had no occasion or opportunity to remodel her productions. 
             
             
                
                
               READING FOR AMUSEMENT. 
               READING! O how enthusiastic one could be on this theme! But it is like some others that touch upon our dearest loves and the most important matters of our lives-expression seems so poor that we end in saying nothing. 
               "Has it never happened to you," says Sir Walter Scott, writing to a female friend, "in the course of your domestic economy, to meet with a drawer stuffed so very, so extremely full, that it was very difficult to pull it open, however desirous you might be to exhibit its contents?" 
               So we shall refrain from saying a single word about reading in general, and confine ourselves strictly to that description of it, the main object of which is amusement. This affords ample scope for a single paper or many papers, and will bear a few plain, practical words. 
               Reading solely for amusement is condemned by some moralists, who insist that we should always have some higher end in view. These good people will draw up, with an air of self-condemnation, if they are betrayed into an interest in what is intended simply as pastime. With such we pretend no sympathy. The sentiment belongs to a code of morals which we verily believe ordinary people cannot adopt without imminent peril to health and reason. These iron theories do not answer for multiform human nature. No great amount of experience or observation is required for the conclusion that complete mental relaxation is more certainly attained by means of purely amusing reading, than by any other method. Music, dancing, gymnastics, and the whole round of innocent pleasures, may be carried on without distracting the mind from its gnawing, destructive cares and anxieties; but if we are capable of enjoying an amusing book, the serpents must cease to wriggle and bite at the heart and brain for that time at least, and entire repose gives strength and patience for new efforts. 
               It must be conceded that nothing appearing with the advantages of print can be simply indifferent in its tendency. If not written by an idiot, it must have some meaning, and all meaning has a moral. Nobody has a right, strictly speaking, to send forth in print that which has no good aim. Yet there is a vast amount of reading which is not intended chiefly to instruct, which yet has an excellent use to those who know how to avail themselves of it. Many a life-text, many a pure, elevating hint, many a humane lesson, is conveyed under a guise no graver or more pretentious than this: 
                      
                        Abou-Ben-Adhem, (may his tribe increase!) 
                        Aweke one night from a deep dream of peace, 
                        And saw within the moonlight in his room, 
                        -Making it rich and like a lily in bloom- 
                        An angel, writing in a book of gold: 
                        Exceeding peace had made Ben-Adhem bold; 
                        And to the Presence in the room he said, 
                        "What writest thou?" The vision raised its head, 
                         
                        And, with a look made all of sweet accord, 
                        Answered, "The names of those who love the Lord." 
                        "And is mine one?" said Abou. "Nay, not so," 
                        Replied the angel. Abou spoke more low, 
                        But cheerly still; and said, "I pray thee, then, 
                        Write me as one that loves his fellow-men." 
                        The angel wrote and vanished. The next night 
                        It came again, with a great, wakening light, 
                        And showed the names whom love of God had blest, 
                        And lo! Ben-Adhem's name led all the rest. 
                     
                  
                
               Enthusiasts in virtue are sometimes found inveighing against all amusements, as childish and unnecessary, at least, if not positively injurious. But we may be the less frightened at their somewhat astounding conclusions, if we observe that these very tirades supply the place of amusement to them. Nature teaches most of us a different lesson, and all that remains for us is to apply the tests of religion and good sense to our pastimes. Amusement is as wholesome for the mind as gymnastics are for the body; we may give it too much of our time, or we may join with it something wrong, just as we may waste our days at the leaping-bars, the swing, or the balance-pole, or make our hours of exercise seasons of gossip or intemperance; but we are not, in a poor, cowardly, narrow-minded way, to renounce the benefits of either, rather than take the trouble to avoid contingent evils. Innocence is the child of mental health and not of mental disease, and that is promoted by variety, cheerfulness, and movement, as opposed to stagnation of mind. 
               In treating of reading for amusement, we must consider it as a universal practice, and therefore a matter of the deepest importance; a thing to be regulated, not eradicated. Sweeping condemnation is certainly injudicious, for the only way to obtain a hearing for our strictures is to show that they are reasonable, kindly, and not devoid of sympathy. Reading for amusement is actually converted into a crime, in some families, by being considered as one; that is to say, the inveterate opposition of the graver members of the household to this fascinating indulgence, leads to concealment and falsehood on the part of the younger, who have neither virtue enough to refrain, nor courage enough to take the consequences in the shape of reproach or sad prognostic. Many a bad novel or trashy magazine is hidden under the cushion or the dictionary, because a good one is not tolerated; to say nothing of the hypocrisy which becomes necessary when books are discussed of which it will not do to confess any knowledge. If parents would preserve their dear ones from the deep contamination of hypocrisy, and the subtle poison of bad books, they must give their attention to the selection of good ones, and such good ones as will satisfy the irrepressible longings of the imagination, and the universal desire for mental excitement. Young people naturally consider serious reading as a task, and require that it should be relieved by reading of a lighter character; and indeed there are few persons of any age of whom this is not true. Even that few we have seen no occasion to envy. Without denying that there are those whose attainments in the religious life are such as to place them above the necessity for any mere amusement, we must still think that for a far more numerous class of persons, works of imagination, humor, and fiction, form a wholesome and even necessary mental diet. Those who reject these resources from merely superstitious motives, are too apt to fall into the usual vices of asceticism,-moroseness, want of sympathy, and a censoriousness which only lacks opportunity to become persecution. 
               It is easy to say that time,-so precious, so evanescent, so irrecoverable,-should always be devoted to some useful purpose. As far as this would exclude innocently amusing reading, we should deny it, but our true opinion would be, that such reading is as useful in its place as serious reading. Not that it could supply the place of that; not that it is not the extreme of folly and weakness to neglect the golden words of wisdom by which we are to live and die, for the sake of what is in comparison but as "sounding brass and a tinkling cymbal;" but that there is a part of our nature which is nourished in virtue by the aid of innocent pleasure; while its cravings, if denied gratification in the right way, will almost surely seek it in the wrong. 
               The prodigious amount of periodical reading at the present day, makes the question of the utility of such reading one of no little moment. If the tendency be good, great must be the benefit, for thousands read nothing else; if evil, it would be impossible to compute the amount of that evil. 
               It is a mooted question in intellectual philosophy what may be the actual effect upon the powers of the mind itself, of so much desultory reading. Coleridge says, 'The habit of perusing periodical works may be properly added to Averrhoes' catalogue of weakeners of memory.' He will not dignify such "pass-time or rather kill-time," with name of reading. "Call it rather," he says, "a sort of beggarly day dreaming, during which the mind of the dreamer furnishes for itself nothing but laziness and a little mawkish sensibility, while the whole matriel and imagery of the doze is supplied ab extra, by a sort of mental camera oscura, manufactured at the printing-office; which for the time, fixes, reflects, and transmits the moving phantasm of one man's delirium, so as to people the barrenness of a hundred other brains, afflicted with the same trance or suspension of all common sense and all definite purpose." He classes this sort of amusement with gaming, swinging on a chair or gate; smoking; snuff-taking; tte-a-tte quarrels after dinner between husband and wife; conning, word by word, all the advertisements in a newspaper; the habit of reading tombstones, and other equally improving modes of mental dissipation; which catalogue he declares is susceptible of a sound psychological commentary. But, not to quote many high authorities which bear out this view of the effects of a habit of desultory reading, we cannot doubt that the most pernicious consequences to the memory do actually result from a continual flying from one subject to another, without any balance in the shape of continuous and systematic study. We remember to have heard a lady of the soundest intellect and the most cultivated understanding, say, after having been tempted to read, day, after day, in a Cyclopedia, that the effect upon her mind and memory had been such as to convince her that to persist in such a course would, ere long, lead to absolute mental derangement. 
               But setting aside this objection, which refers to excess merely, and which must be left to the regulation of good sense and experience, what is the general character of the periodicals in circulation among us? 
               The Quarterlies, the work of the ripest minds and the most practised pens in the United States and in England, embody a fund of information on almost every subject worth knowing, and perhaps for this very reason are comparatively neglected. We have not yet, as a people, learned to find our literary amusement in the acquisition of information. We read too much for mere excitement. An essay full of the most stinging satire-a slashing review of some popular author-is tolerably sure of readers. In such things we can find the piquancy which a sated imagination is ever seeking. But unless a review come thus recommended; if it offer only just and dispassionate criticism, condensed accounts of all that is new and useful, and elegant essays upon a variety of subjects, it lies on many a table with its leaves uncut, or perhaps quietly slumbers on the bookseller's counter, while thousands of pages, injurious alike to the morals and the taste, are being devoured by those whose minds most need furnishing with elegant or practical knowledge. The lamentable poverty of conversation observable in most circles is proof enough of the need of better reading; and since there is certainly a great deal of reading done among us, we fear the conclusion is unavoidable that much of it is badly chosen. 
               Some of the British monthlies, which have been rendered very popular here by their dashing style, and a certain knowingness which they all affect, can hardly be considered as exerting a healthful influence on American minds. Their morality is often scarcely strict enough for our Puritan notions; they almost uniformly represent duelling as something which a gentleman must always be ready for; perfect purity of life as not to be expected or desired among gentlemen; capital punishment and the utmost barbarity of military discipline as among the picturesque and inevitable accidents-a summary and common sense way of turning out or throwing over those who cause inconvenience to the orderly attendants of the great theatre of life. And besides these and other sentiments contrary to the more humane and enlightened views of social duty rapidly gaining ground on this side of the water, their flings at the political maxims which we, as Americans, are bound to hold most sacred, are far from encouraging in our young people due respect and affection for their native land. We cannot but notice that the periodicals of our English brethren are deeply tinged with their birth-right notions-that wealth and fame or some shape of worldly prosperity are the proper and sufficient rewards of virtuous conduct; thus presenting not only, in many cases, a delusive standard of merit,-since the virtues they most praise are of a very ordinary or quite dubious quality,-but a false and pernicious standard of reward, false in fact as in philosophy, yet naturally fascinating to youthful and indiscriminating minds. The British monthlies may, without injustice, be characterized as being more thoroughly imbued with what, for want of a better term, we may call a worldly spirit, than any thing of the kind on this side of the water. 
               The influence of these attractive publications is, however, much limited by their cost, and they reach the mass of the community only by means of extracts commended to some of our diligent collectors by their wit, humor, or better qualities. That excellent weekly, Littell's Living Age, gives us the good without the evil of these British brilliancies, gratifying the man of taste without giving pain to parent or moralist. 
               Blackwood we take whole; but its toryism is, perhaps, too laughable to be injurious here; while the vigorous and sprightly style of its articles, though less striking now than formerly, makes it a good model for that class of writing, and its political partialities are so patent as to make every reader of ordinary intelligence receive its criticisms with due allowance. Blackwood acts ever on Dr. Johnson's principles as a reporter. When it was remarked that in the debates, as written out by him, the Tories always appeared to the best advantage, he replied, 'Why, yes! I took good care never to let the Whig rogues have the best of it!' 
               One thing must in justice be noticed-that no English periodical, however light or amusing its general character, consists wholly of fiction, or merely amusing articles. Information, scientific or picturesque; geography, botany, mechanics; travels, discoveries, historical facts; politics, statistics, comments on recent occurrences; all these have a place in first-class British monthlies-a feature in which it must be confessed they quite excel our own. 
               Yet our own magazine literature, against which so much has lately been said and written, would justify a much abler defence than can be attempted here. First comparatively-Look at American pioneers in this march-at the artistic and mechanical execution and literary value of the magazines of our early days. A stray number that turns up now and then, wears much the aspect of those achievements of certain country presses which live by the continual reproduction of Thaddeus of Warsaw and the Scottish Chiefs; while the literary matter is in general more jejune and frothy than even the most savage critics of our day pretend of modern monthlies. Then positively-The choicest fugitive poetry of our time has appeared in this form; we say of our time, for it is conceded by the first English authority in such matters, that in occasional and fugitive poetry we far excel our transatlantic neighbors. Bryant, Halleck, Longfellow, Willis, Lowell, Stoddard, and so many others that we must not attempt to enumerate them, have chosen this mode of publication for their most exquisite pieces; and a host of elegant and instructive writers in other departments, headed by Miss Sedgwick, Mrs. Child, Mr. Tuckerman, E. A. Poe, and the lamented C. F. Hoffman, owe to the despised magazine their nearest and readiest approach to the minds and the affections of the mass of their countrymen. To call the magazines 'trashy,' is, in effect, to call these authors so; although we do not deny that their contributions have sometimes appeared in company of little worth or dignity. We can never admit, however, that these inferior materials can fairly be considered as characterizing our first-class monthlies. Many tales of real life, of unexceptionable romance or genial humor, come forth modestly, unheralded by names accredited elsewhere where, while the main body of the matter, moral, literary and artistic, is such as to do no discredit to a youthful literature, and to the intent of fairly and innocently amusing countless multitudes. 
               To whom are these monthly ventures consigned? To millions of people whose lives are for the most part lives of toil and care-too often of sordid and depressing drudgery. Cheap as air, almost, they penetrate every workshop, every factory, every village club, every hospital and asylum, even, in the land. Who shall compute the amount of pleasure, rest, buoyancy, consolation, instruction, inspiration, they bring with them? Those who coldly or contemptuously speak ill of them, are people satiated with other pleasures and means of improvement, to whom the fragmentary character of a mere magazine is as distasteful, as is the scrappy, unsatisfactory concert to the lover of music who craves nothing less than the exquisite unity of an entire opera. We protest against such unreasonable depreciation. To our thinking, these periodical argosies of pleasant and elegant reading are more important to these great United States, than those huge messengers that almost daily dart across the wide ocean on commercial errands; even as the taste, intelligence and virtue of a people are of more consequence than their wordly wealth or political eminence. Strike out this modest and only half-appreciated phalanx, and you create a hiatus in the national defences against vice. Discredit the magazines, and you take away an innocent solace, and leave room for some far from innocent substitute. This same propensity for literary amusement will seek gratification in some way, and there are never wanting those who will cater for it at any expense of morals and religion, if the ground be not pre-occupied by those whose interest as well as duty it is to maintain the utmost strictness which a conscientious regard for the public good can demand. 
                
               That the tone of our magazines generally is too light has been already said, and this is an evil which demands the serious attention of those concerned. Even self interest dictates a change in this respect, for the American people have, after all, too much solid sense to remain contented with mere play in anything. It is not only, as is sometimes said, the fashion-plates that give a frivolous and vulgar aspect to certain handsome monthlies. It is the prevailing, almost exclusive use of amusing matter, with hardly a grain of ballast in the shape of actual information. It is in vain to say the style and matter of these things must be adapted to the taste of readers, since it is impossible so to fit or force the inclination that what is better shall be preferred. This is partly true, doubtless; but the duty of those who write for the public, is to aim at raising the standard of taste and improving the judgment of those who read; and publishers who disregard this will be repaid in the end by neglect. The declining state of most of our monthlies is to be traced to the forgetfulness of this necessity; and our experience and observation both lead us to feel sure that not to editors or writers is this owing so much as to proprietors of the magazines, who, holding the purse-strings, short-sightedly refuse to pay for any but 'amusing' articles, and look upon what is technically termed 'heavy matter,' as unsaleable. 'A thing must be piquant or exciting,' say they, 'in order to go down;' and a 'piquant' treatise on natural philosophy, or an 'exciting' essay on some great principle in morals or political economy not being easily found, novelettes and sentimental poetry fill the whole field of interest. 
               To quit the subject of periodicals-the flood of novels from which the world has suffered for some years past-perhaps sent like the other Great Deluge, in punishment of national sins-has aroused in many minds an unaffected distrust or dread of all fictitious tious writing. But this is too weak and unjust to be persisted in, by common-sense people who are willing to look into the matter. "The novel," says one of our best critics,
                     E. P. Whipple.
                   "is one of the most effective, if not the most perfect, forms of composition through which a comprehensive mind can communicate itself to the world, exhibiting as it may through sentiment, incident, and character, a complete philosophy of life, and admitting a dramatic and narrative expression of the abstract principles of ethics, metaphysics, and theology. Its range is theoretically as wide and deep as man and nature. The great novelist should be poet, philosopher, and man of the world, fused into one." It must be confessed that this ideal is yet to be realized; but it would be unjust to deny that approaches to it have been made by authors whose works are ignorantly classed among books only to be tolerated, not recommended. Shall we exclude such from the ranks of moral teachers? Let us rather suspect the morality which demands the crushing of a natural feeling, and the sweeping away of a class of writers, who have ever won the heart and the ear of mankind. A disposition to make bugbears or scarecrows should be the characteristic only of ignorance and superstition. We happened once to hear an ignorant and fanatical person uttering the most violent anathemas against all fictions, as 'lies' which any one should be ashamed to write. Somebody mentioned the parables of our Saviour as affording sanction to this as one mode of conveying instruction, but our moralist cast up hands and eyes in holy horror at the impiety of naming the parables in such a connexion. The stories of Hannah More were then suggested, but he escaped them very satisfactorily to himself by saying, 'They were written on purpose to do good!' This is only an extreme example of the unreasonableness sonableness of some people's objections against all fictitious writing. 
               Mankind have ever craved fiction, and this is easily accounted for. The problem of life is continually before us for solution; and as each one feels his own private experience to be a failure, he naturally seeks other cases, since a mass of facts is necessary for just conclusions. Our ideal of life is free from error and misfortune, and we are ever in search of some means of realizing this fair picture. All about us contradicts our cherished notions of the should-be, and we turn, in weariness, to any and every account of human fortunes, that imagination, at least, may find aid and countenance. It is thus that although we profess to relish most those fictions which are like transcripts of very life, we in reality covet a certain exaggeration, and an artful veiling of the more vulgar truths, or at least an artistic selection of those which are presented. Why should we wish to pass in review the twice-told tale of common, daily experience? We strive to forget it, or to keep it in the background, even when we would but make the agreeable to ordinary company, far more when we fly all mundane companionship, and withdraw into the glorious, inviolable world of thought, with a guide super-naturally endowed, and bound to talk all the time for our instruction and delight. By his help we see things that are only spiritually discerned, and for this we must be in a state something above our ordinary one, even though what we desire to look into be but that old story of life and passion which has been acted over and over again, tens of thousands of times in every age, since the first family performed the original domestic drama on the earliest stage. 
               This suggests the question, Would the interest and excitement be as great if we were allowed to contemplate the actual occurrences which the writer of fiction describes? Surely not, or we should be more excited by what passes about us every day; for, like the worthy littrateur who talked prose without knowing it, we are not only witnessing but acting romance all the time. So that if reality were all we wanted, we need never wander in search of it. It is the repose and refreshment of a little illusion that we long for, although this illusion be thrown over the very subject of all others about which we feel most anxious to discover the truth. 
               Yet we persuade ourselves that we accept fiction only as a substitute for truth. This is one of the unavoidable inconsistencies of a condition full of blunders. 'Is it true?' asks the child, or the childish hearer, intending to be affected by the occurrence exactly in proportion to its authenticity; while a similar action might pass unnoticed before the eyes of either. Yet if the truth be too familiar, we despise it, no matter how well presented. 'Where's the use of putting all that into a book?' said a plain-spoken western woman, on reading some sketches of the life she saw about her. She did not want suggestions of the homely, though they might suit well enough the child of luxury and wearisome convention When she selected a book for her own reading, it would be one of the wildest and most exciting romances, perhaps a harrowing ghost-story, or the impossible adventures of some pirate or highwayman, or Pilgrim's Progress, with its diabolical stratagems and combats, and the murders of Giant Despair. Not that but a heightened and ornamented narrative of scenes and events which should recall her own experience would have charms for her. She would prize the resemblance, provided it were not too literal, and provided also the incidents selected for recital were not so common in her neighbourhood as to have ceased to possess any distinctness to her mind. 
               Indeed, distance, either of time, place, or circumstance, from the scene of our own knowledge or recollection, seems to be one of the requisites for fascination in fiction, although if this distance be too great it precludes interest by chilling sympathy. The adventures of a pair of Chinese lovers do not move us, neither do we feel our blood stirred by the exploits of a Polynesian warrior. A character which nearly resembles that which we suppose to be our own, placed in circumstances possible to ourselves, secures our interest in the first degree. Next to this, perhaps, comes one which exhibits the highest human excellence struggling with difficulties and finally triumphing over them. Amid the trials and disappointments of life-and these begin earlier than is generally supposed-such a view is consoling and sustaining, under that secret distrust of Providence which shows itself occasionally in most people in the shape of what is called low spirits. 
               But we might as well attempt to show why we are angry or afraid as why we crave narratives of adventure or delineations of character. The love of these is a passion, whose roots are as deeply laid in our nature as those of any other. No people has yet been found among whom there were not traditional or marvellous tales, to listen to which is ever their highest delight, however rude or warlike their habits. The traditions and fictions-synonymous generally-of our own Indians, are of the most daring flight, lacking sublimity only in consequence of the general ignorance of these fabricators, not through any weakness in the wing of imagination.
                     See 'Dahcotah," by Mrs. Eastman.
                   The Arab story-tellers, who have the advantage of a literature, enchain their audience with wild or pathetic legends of the patriarchs, Moses, and above all, King Solomon, whose encounters with gnomes and genii equal any wonders of the Arabian Nights. A late intelligent traveller in the East describes a rude audience listening ing to a well-told story-"some leaning eagerly forward, others smoking their pipes with quickened puffs when something extraordinary was related, or when the hero of the story got into some apparently inextricable dilemma. These story-telling parties are usually to be seen seated on the ground in a circle, in a shady place. The donkey-boy will stop and gape open-mouthed on overhearing a few words of the marvellous adventures of some enchanted prince, and will look back at his four-footed companion, fearing lest he should resume his original form of a merchant from the island of Serendib.'
                     Curzon's "Monasteries of the Levant."
                  
                
               It is then in vain to utter general fulminations against the indulgence of so natural a taste. It were as wise to attempt to extinguish love, or hope, or curiosity. Yet the mischiefs which are supposed to have arisen from the too great excitement of fiction have, as we before observed, induced some excellent people to condemn it entirely; making the reading of a romance or novel a misdemeanor, and ranking the writer one among the corrupters of the age. A milder sentence awaits a story in verse, or one in which religion is introduced; indeed these last form in some cases the staple of our Sunday-school literature, warmly fostered as it is by the very people who condemn the excitement of fiction most anxiously. The influence of these novels-in-disguise can hardly be appreciated, unless we accept as significant the fact that there never was a time when there was such a mania for novel-reading, or a country in which it was as freely indulged as our own. It would be strange if the habit of conveying instruction principally in this form did not unfit the mind for receiving it in any other, by over-exciting the imagination, and weakening the power of thought; as it is said children are often trained to be drunkards by the practice of disguising their medicine in spirituous liquors well sweetened. We wrap moral precepts in fiction, both to entice the child to like them, and to save him the trouble of receiving them through reasoning and reflection. This is well as far as it goes, since there may be a habitual love of virtue as well as a reflective one; but we all know that without a foundation of solid thought and deliberate approbation and preference, a mere love of virtue may be simply a matter of taste, unable to preserve us against the attacks of a single baleful passion, or the encroachments of a single dangerous habit. Practically, it is found, as all teachers will avouch, that the more the youthful mind has been habituated to this disguised, sweetened, or we might say, smuggled instruction, the less disposed is it toward the acquisition of any knowledge which demands actual labour,-the inexorable preliminary to all knowledge worth having,-and the less respect has it for simple, unadorned, scriptural, stringent, moral precept. 
               Shall we then condemn the use of fiction as a moral instrument? On the contrary, we take the position of its advocates. In order to secure for it its due place, we would show wherein it has been, as we think, misused, and so has acquired an evil reputation. Our cautions would be directed only against making it the staple of the mind's diet, at any age of life. Mental effeminacy, if not moral obliquity, is the natural effect of such a mistake. And there may be great error, too, in the character of the fictions we allow. We confess their potency when we employ them in our attempts to train the minds of the young, yet we too often inconsistently neglect to ascertain their true character by applying to them the tests of common sense, taste, truth, and religion. 
               As to common sense-what can be sillier, or more unlike real life, than the motives and behaviour ascribed to men, women, and children, by some writers of great and little novels? We are called upon to admire conduct which would, in real life, subject the performer to the suspicion of incipient fatuity, if nothing worse; and conversation, which, if it did not put the hearers to sleep by its formal dulness, would certainly, in any company with which we are acquainted, be considered insufferably arrogant, egotistical, or impertinent. In novels prepared for children, we find parents talking like books, or preaching unmercifully on any and every occasion, so unlike judicious parents in real life, that little readers, if they admire the book-father or mother, must inevitably draw unfavourable comparisons with regard to their own truer and more natural instructors, and perhaps look upon the latter as lacking religion, because they wisely leave life's lessons to impress themselves on the ductile mind, instead of attempting to enforce them by incessant sermonizing. And not only do elderly people preach, in the fictions of these well-intentioned caterers for youth, but even children utter homilies to each other, and to their parents, such as no child ever attempted, unless it might be Joseph Surface in his boyhood. 
               In the matter of taste, what would be more insufferable in society than open discussion of the most delicate topics, as if there were nothing too sacred for analytical development? Yet this is the main strength of some novels, the interest of which would disappear entirely, if the characters were not allowed to talk to and of each other and each other's affairs and feelings, in a way which would be contrary to every canon of social good-breeding, anywhere but on paper. An opposite and equally striking fault may be found with many fictions, the whole mystery of whose plot depends on somebody's being hindered by a false delicacy but real weakness,-which is exalted into a virtue for the admiration of the reader,-from disclosing a fact, or expressing a sentiment, or lifting a veil, which would prevent countless mischiefs; thus inculcating an insincerity, the practice of which would destroy the confidence of domestic life, and loosen the great bond of society. What is matter of complaint in these and similar cases is, that for the sake of needless complications of story,-not through any evil intention, but through want of skill-false morals and bad manners are taught by insinuation; and the argument to be deduced is in favour of countenancing only the higher order of fictions, and necessarily rejecting at least nineteen-twentieths of all that now circulate among persons of immature judgment and untutored sensibility. 
               It would occupy too much space to particularize the various forms in which ignorance of society and the lack of a just taste in manners and conversation are exhibited by a large proportion of novel-writers. If the difference between good and bad manners were always as easily discerned and described as some people suppose, we should not see so many blunders made. But the distinction is so nice, that it is hardly possible for a person whose own habits and associations are coarse, to avoid giving a tinge of coarseness to fictions intended as pictures of society. While the authorship of the Waverley novels was still a matter of conjecture, a young English barrister wrote a series of ingenious and elegant letters to prove that the laurel was due to Sir Walter Scott and none other; and the subject of one letter was the evident good-breeding and knowledge of society displayed by the author of Waverley. The faults of other writers are thus enumerated by way of contrast to the excellence and good taste of Scott. "How constantly, even in the best works of fiction, are we disgusted with such offences against generous principle as the reading of letters by those for whom they were not intended; taking advantage of accidents to overhear private conversation; revealing what in honour should have remained secret; falsehoods not always indirect; and an endless variety of low artifices, which appear to be thought quite legitimate if carried on by subordinate agents. All these knaveries are assigned to characters whom the reader is expected to honor with his sympathy, or at least to receive into favour before the story concludes." These strictures apply equally well to the fashionable novels of our day; and note a class of defects which render such fictions unsuitable reading for the young, whose vivid imagination makes a fictitious example nearly as influential as an actual one. We should never allow them to associate in books with persons whose sentiments would be sufficient to close our doors against them if they attempted entrance in bodily shape. 
               Truth is, often violated unconsciously, by writers who aim principally at pleasing an inferior class of readers, in the motives which are assigned and the conclusions which are drawn with respect to the actions of their characters. Parents are held up to detestation for determined opposition to the indulgence of affection, in cases where, in truth and reality, they would be extremely criminal if they did not refuse consent: what is called love is painted as the paramount motive and regulator of human affairs, and whatever interferes with its operation is described as unparalleled wickedness or agonizing misfortune; when in truth and soberness we know that if nine specimens out of ten of the straw-blaze thus deified could be crushed before it has had time and opportunity to work its natural mischiefs, nearly as large a proportion of the misery of society would be prevented. Elegantly bred young women are characterized as proud and self-forgetful, if they do not consider that a handsome person and good manners make any and every young man an eligible companion for life, although we all know that marriages entered into in defiance of the ordinary rules of fitness are in fact productive of anything but happiness. Without particularizing further, we may say in general, that the sowing of wrong notions of life in the minds of the young is one of the most obvious of the ill results of indiscriminate novel-reading; and that the evils which have already accrued from this fault should induce the most anxious selection on the part of those whose duty it is to attend to these matters. 
               The direct introduction of religion into novels is a point of no small importance, and one which would require much space for its adequate discussion. Life cannot be truly described without reference to religion, not can human affairs be separated from this great balance-wheel; but the question is as to the advisableness of attempting to make religion the staple of an amusing story. We confess our distaste to the plan, fashionable as it is at the present day; and we should suppose those whose sectarian feelings are strong, as well as those who deprecate the influence of a sectarian spirit in religion, would examine very closely all novels of this description, since their tendency is always intensely sectarian, and condemnatory of all who differ from their own type. Religion or irreligion is directly or indirectly taught in all novels, and nothing short of a full perusal will be sufficient to determine whether in this important respect any new work of fiction may safely be placed in the hands of the young. 
               While confessing, therefore, the absolute indispensableness of fiction as one form of innocent recreation, it will be perceived that we consider the most anxious discrimination necessary in the choice of those which shall receive the sanction of parental love and care; and that we look upon the sweeping condemnation indulged in by some persons, as in part the cause of the introduction of injurious works. Greater liberality, more condescending sympathy, and a larger devotion of time and attention to this momentous subject, would doubtless remedy much of the evil complained of; for not only would the existing mass of works undergo the sifting they so much need, but authors who fatten on the public foibles would be restrained if not reformed, by the knowledge that their productions would surely be subjected to the ordeal of pure taste and good morals, before they were suffered to pass into the hands of those who have hitherto been, too often, their unquestioning purchasers, and sometimes their hapless victims. 
             
             
                
               PHILOSOPHICAL NOVELS. 
               PERHAPS the class of novels found most fascinating in this speculative age, in that known under the title of philosophical-including all works of fiction which have for their avowed object the unravelling of our tangled and confused social web. Alton Locke and Yeast are conspicuous in the list-both of which touch with skilful hand and benevolent intent some of the least sound portions of the fabric, offering gleams of true light, if not more direct aid. There is a genial sweetness about these books, with all their severity; but they leave us sad with a quickened perception of evils which demand a thorough demolition and reconstruction of the present tissue of things. What can be more humiliating than the discovery of curable ills that laugh at our puny efforts-sins that seem like mere follies till we find they bring misery-meannesses that the great world conspires to dignify into virtues-oppressions and degradations that wealth could remedy, which the whole power of wealth is leagued to perpetuate? Yet it is well to subject ourselves to this. A benevolent heart will sustain us in walking a hospital, and all that this includes, in the mere hope that, if opportunity should offer, we may turn the knowledge thus acquired to the benefit of our suffering fellows. There is at least no danger that the class of philosophical novels we have indicated will ever be too attractive to the young, who see only the obvious, and do not feel the deeper meaning of their pictures of life. 
               We are not so sure of the safety of all the novels written with similar aim; for there are many which teach that whatever interferes with immediate happiness, and the gratification of any and every wish and impulse, however produced or fostered, is an evil, and one for which the state human affairs have arrived at, under God's government and the power of such wisdom and virtue as man has exercised, is alone accountable. Now without attempting any argument as to the fact here assumed, we may venture to enter a deferential protest against the presentation of this view under all the charms of beautiful fiction, to minds wholly unprepared by knowledge or experience to judge fairly of points so important, and on which fancy and passion so ill fit us to decide. 
               The class of works to which we allude, includes much of the current French literature, and in particular the novels of Madame George Sand; works showing such genius, knowledge and taste, as entitle them to be considered high among 'the powers that be.' 
               It seems vapid to speak of the amusement to be found in these books-of the genius of the author-of the interest of particular characters. They aim so obviously at something beyond all this, that we are compelled to view them as the author views them-in the light of moral agencies; levers to upturn society; medicines, through whose efficacy diseases in the body politic are to be healed; oracles, whose decisions, though dim and vague, and oftentimes seemingly contradictory, are to be received with deference, and as the fruit of inspiration. We pay them the compliment of examination rather than mere perusal. We treat them as we do a schoolmaster who comes to us highly recommended-endeavouring to sift their pretensions without infringing upon their dignity; we interrogate them firmly, but with respect. This we owe to the genius of the author; to her taste, her cultivation, her uncommon power of language; and above all to her solemn and reiterated assurance that the good of her race is her end and desire. 
               There are perhaps few who would not admit some of the works of this lady to be fundamentally erroneous, and that to such a degree as ought to exclude them from the family circle. But after these have been deducted, there will yet remain enough to justify all the admiration which the world has agreed to offer at the foot-stool of this new and during Corinne. Consuelo alone-blemished as it is by occasional sins against taste, if not morals-is foundation enough for a whole pyramid of reputation; and the very disputes to which it has given rise show how deeply its power has been felt. It is no less than a most eloquent protest against things as they are; a showing up of the hypocrisies and meannesses of society by contrasting them with the simple intents and conclusions of a woman, whose genius and whose purity alike seem to entitle her to live independently of conventional rules. The art and elegance with which the idea is wrought out; the exquisite character of the heroine, natural and lovely in every possible contingency, and wholly uncorrupted amid every conceivable temptation; the interest kept up by the story, with a thousand brilliant incongruities,-now outraging common sense, and again flashing intolerable light on the stupidity and wickedness that often passes for it in our corrupt social state-all these are nothing less than marvellous, and leave without excuse those who, in condeming the wrong, or pointing out the errors of this book, have failed to do justice to its excellencies. Far nobler the estimate of a genius at least so far kindred as to be capable of comprehending that of Madam George Sand-Elizabeth, Barrett Browning,-whose piety, delicacy and high social relations do not deter her from thus apostrophizing her sister artist: 
                      
                        True genius but true woman! dost deny 
                        Thy woman's nature with a manly scorn, 
                        And break away the gauds and armlets worn 
                        By weaker women in captivity? 
                        Ah, vain denial! that revolted cry 
                        Is sobbed in by a woman's voice forlorn: 
                        Thy woman's hair, my sister, all unshorn, 
                        Floats back dishevelled, strength in agony, 
                        Disproving thy man's name. And while before 
                        The world thou burnest in a poet-fire, 
                        We see thy woman-heart beat evermore 
                        Through the large flame. Beat purer, heart, and higher, 
                        Till God unsex thee on the Spirit shore; 
                        To which alone unsexing, purely aspire. 
                     
                  
                
               Yet, in another sonnet, Mrs. Browning, ever noble and humane even when she condemns, breathes the wish that George Sand 
                      
                        To woman's claim 
                        And man's, might join beside the angel's grace 
                        Of a pure genius, sanctified from blame- 
                     
                   and in this her most enlightened admirers must unite. Her life-perhaps the truer and more natural product of her thoughts-has given a taint to her works which not all their genius, power and good intent, can wholly obliterate; and those who praise her highest, are compelled to acknowledge that even in her best books she does not always exercise the good sense or the delicacy so conspicuous in much that she has written. 
               In judging of the writings of George Sand, their French origin must never be forgotten. Ever since the Revolution upturned and laid bare the ancient foundations of the great social fabric, French writers have been found who condemn the entire structure, and think it worthy only of being demolished, to make way for a new earth, at least, if not a new heaven, which some of their speculations if carried out to their consequences, would render equally necessary. A very large portion of modern French literature is tinged with this class of sentiments. Besides this, or perhaps as a consequence of it, differences in manners and customs make such difference in character and conduct, that we must be slow in judging as in adopting or imitating, what perhaps we are only half able to comprehend. Monsieur Eugene Sue and Madame George Sand agree curiously in some of their ideal delineations of character; and as they are both people of genius, we call their creations French nature, because they must know what they are talking of, though we do not. But Sue describes Fleur do Marie as the purest of human angels, though he gives us to understand, at the same time, that she has lived a life which would render her preservation more wonderful than that of Shadrach, Meshech and Abednego in the fiery furnace. Madame George Sand makes the Savinienne, in the Journeyman Joiner, 'beautiful as one of Raphael's virgins, with the same regularity of features, and the same expression of a calm and noble sweetness,' having 'the feeling of an angelic strength,' 'the sweetness of Paradise in her voice and in her eyes,' and with all this, the virtue and dignity of a Roman matron of Rome's best days; yet keeping a tavern for the free-masons or companions of the trades-unions-men who commit murder in their table brawls, and in other respects conduct themselves as such men might. There is a puerility about such delineations hardly worthy the genius of George Sand, for one might as well talk about 'black snow, hot ice.' Human nature is now and in France what it has ever been everywhere, in these particulars at least; and the question is as pertinent as ever-'Can a man touch pitch and not be defiled, or can he take fire into his bosom and his clothes not be burned?' 
               The aim of this novel of the Journeyman Joiner seems to be to show how worthy a common, or rather uncommon mechanic may be of the profound and devoted affection of a young lady of exquisite cultivation and exalted talent, bred to aristocratic notions and habits. This we should be far from disputing in the abstract, but, put as a practical question, it certainly is the silliest in the world. If men and women were mere ideals, such unions would be quite natural and proper, for then there would be no more outward distinctions and difficulties, such as must now be looked upon and treated as fixed facts. Even in our present 'visible, diurnal sphere,' with its gales of opinion and its stumbling blocks of adamantine habits and prejudices-this world of commonplaces and compromises,-we concede readily that a house-carpenter of noble sentiments and virtuous behaviour would make a far better husband for a princess than a rou of whatever rank or accomplishments. But we are slow to believe that the said house-carpenter, allowing him all the wonderful qualities of Pierre Huguenin, would be as well suited to an elegant young woman like Yseult do Villepreux, as a worthy young man of something near her own standing in society. If married life consisted of a few hours every day passed in exalted conversation in a well-furnished and elegant library, surrounded by objects of art and vertu; and if the carpenter were-oh, stumbling if!-a suitable companion for these hours, we should not have a word to say, except to encourage all our Yseults to follow out their leadings in such cases. But as life is something very different ferent, and as our phoenix of a carpenter would probably have opposite notions and habits from those of his wife, with regard to those thousand trifles that make the sum of human things, and on which so much of the comfort and peace of domestic life depends, we cannot but think he might become exceedingly disagreeable, with all his virtue. Then as phnixes are unique, his mother and sisters could hardly be prodigies too; and the fastidious Yseult must either consent to odious and unprofitable association with them, or the exalted carpenter must 'individualize himself' (a favourite term) to the exclusion of his natural relations-a course which, in our old-fashioned estimate of morals, would make such a hole in his tissue of virtues, as not all the sophistical cobwebs in the world could mend. He might tell us he had 'outgrown' his family, (another favourite phrase,) we should none the less set him down as a cold-hearted egotist, who had pursued his own pleasure and ambition irrespective of true goodness. 
               A mere hint of the obvious practical result of the carrying out of the said theory of marriage, is quite sufficient to suggest the destructive effects to be produced on society considered as a body having relations and dependencies. Utter isolation and consequent selfish misery, would be the fruit of marriages contracted on principles entirely irrespective of any persons besides the individuals whom sympathy might draw together. However beautiful such marriages may appear in their place in certain theories, a very ordinary degree of observation is required to convince any unprejudiced mind that in real life they conduce neither to happiness nor to virtue. Equally one-sided and inexpedient do we consider the notions respecting divorce put forth in the writings of George Sand, as far as we understand them. Marriages are every day contracted with mere thoughtlessness, forgetfulness of the principles that should actuate rational beings in an affair of life-long importance-a total lack of all that deserves the name of attachment; to make it easy for such marriages to be dissolved, would-to say nothing of the direct prohibition of our Saviour, who "knew what was in man,"-practically nullify the institution of marriage, and throw society into a confusion and horror which in the worst days of the worst marriages, or even among the most barbarous nations, has never yet been equalled. It is surely not profitable for a moralist to throw upon the 'institutions of society,' the blame which ought to fall upon individual lack of virtue, consideration, self-control and magnanimity. We shall consider Madame George Sand as doing a far better work for her sex and for her race if she will show us a woman, or a married pair, suffering under the miseries which belong to an ill-assorted marriage, with a true and generous forgetfulness of self, a lowly spirit of pious submission for the sake of the promise to the "pure in heart," the "meek," the "long-suffering," the "peace makers." A romantic self-renunciation is often the theme of George Sand; a religious one would prove a better remedy for the ills of life than any at which she has yet seemed to aim. The serious tone in which she treats everything, leads us to hope that her reflections which are evidently the result of genuine and not fictitious impressions as to the ills of life, may yet lead her to recognize the only true and simple remedy for them all, as far as the individual is concerned-such an acceptance of Christ as shall lead to self-control, generous construction of the motives of others, appreciation of their trials and difficulties, willingness to suffer for the right, tender compassion for weakness, and patience under wrongs however inexcusable. The influence of such qualities is irresistible. The reason why quarrels are ever life-long, is that neither party fully possesses these qualities. The reason why human misery is ever intolerable, is that it is not attempted to cure it by means of such; for the least and lowest result of their possession is the power of postponing this world to the next; of living upon the future, renouncing "the life that now is;" though a more complete subjection to the law of Christ has the promise of this life also. 
               We can but glance at the thoughts which are suggested by the reading of these books. The power of the writer is obvious; and there is a certain awe attending the contemplation of genius, as of beauty, which bids us beware with what intent we approach it in the spirit of criticism. But something more even than genius is required for the production of philosophical novels; and it becomes the well-principled writer to examine long and anxiously into the true scope and bearing of the views and maxims which he is about to disseminate in this form. Especially should he hesitate about attacking thus any of the institutions which have been adopted by common consent for the well-being of society; since the darts which, if wrapt in dull essays, would fall harmless to the ground will find their way, winged with fancy and pointed by wit, directly to the susceptible young heart, there to remain for good or evil. To send them at random, therefore, to show one's skill, or maliciously, to revenge one's-self upon society for what we judge to have been its injustice towards us, were a deadly sin, and it is one which we are far from charging upon this writer, whom we see to be serious, and believe to be benevolent. But though powerful to pull down, her suggestions as to re-building we look upon as impracticable, and happily so. To discredit the institution of marriage, because some individuals of unrenewed hearts and roving imaginations and ungoverned passions find misery in it, would be as wise, in our view, as to leave off building houses because some one in passing had been hurt by a brick falling on his head, which brick he had himself caused to fall by some act of ignorance or presumption. So to advocate a complete forgetfulness of every natural tie, every habit and prejudice, all those powerful, imperative associations on which so much of the enjoyment of daily life depends, in forming a connection, the happiness of which must be made up of correspondences and harmonies not a little depending upon these very things, seems no less insane, than to transplant a native of the tropics to Greenland, in order that he may there enjoy to the full the ice which he found so refreshing under his burning sun; or to show our kindness to a New-Zealander by setting him down alone in the midst of London. 
               While the suggestions of George Sand as to social errors and abuses evince acute perception, her notions of remedial measures seem to us futile, and almost childish, in their short-sightedness. Her own sorrows and errors fit her in part for the office she has chosen; but she has not yet reached a point from which she can look back upon the past without passion, and passion is a bad adviser. Wisdom implies coolness and impartiality; breadth of views is the fruit of maturity of experience, and can hardly be expected while the sting of experience is still rankling. We willingly class her with the seekers after truth, but cannot concede to her a place among discoverers. And herein lies the mischief which we conceive her works capable of doing. Notions in reality crude and narrow, seem, in the light of her genius and expressive power, full of generous, all-embracing humanity and remedial wisdom. Inexperienced and ardent minds, fascinated by her grace, her noble sentiments, her tenderness, her sympathy with all those passionate feelings in which so many young people believe happiness to consist, adopt her as a leader promising glorious things, and able by her great gifts to aid in the accomplishment of what she promises. Next to the pleasure of talking about one's-self to a sympathizing listener, is reading the expression of one's secret thoughts by another and a superior mind. It is the gratification of egotism without the shame. It is fostering the favourite passions, without the counter-balancing sense of danger. George Sand is the unsuspected flatterer of all who are discontented with their own lot, and who find gratification in shifting the responsibility from themselves to society and its institutions and abuses. 
               With all her grace and elegance-all her truthfulness and courage-all the fascinations of her style, and all the charm of her humanity, we cannot recommend her as a safe guide to the young and enthusiastic, though we should be untrue to our convictions if we denied that many of her works may profitably be studied by the mature, who are capable of profiting by generous suggestions, and yet not likely to be led into wild and unhappy attempts to realize theories seeming noble, but in reality imperfect, if not unsound. 
               It is worthy of notice that all the philsoophical novels of the day agree in one particular-in ascribing all the ills under which society groans to neglect or misapprehension of the Spirit of the Gospel, and deciding all hope of remedy to rest upon a new and loving reception of it in all its stringency and sweetness. This is certainly very different from the 'philosophy, falsely so called' of Voltaire and his contemporaries, and shows the progress we have made towards the true light. All we want now is to carry our spirit of discovery far enough, and to follow whithersoever it shall lead us, with courage and humility. Blessed will be the day when we recognize cognize not only sentimentally or superstitiously, but intelligently and heartily, the great truth shadowed forth in these words: 
               
                  This is the stone which was set at naught of you builders, which is become the head of the corner; neither is there salvation in any other: for there is none other name under heaven given among men whereby we must be saved. God speed the day, and send us teachers who shall consecrate their genius, with all its radiant concomitants, to the elucidation of what is still a mystery and a stumbling block to many a gifted and truly honest and well-disposed mind. 
             
             
                
               AUTHORS. 
               To young people of lively and romantic imaginations, there is nothing so fascinating as the stage and those who tread it. Before the world has shed over them its chilling influence, and opened to their trustful minds its mortifying truths, they never believe that the hero of to-night may be the gambler or the sot of to-morrow; still less, that the graceful Viola, or the tender Juliet, who sighs and weeps in satin and diamonds, may be found at certain seasons quarrelling in the green-room like a tigress, or slipshod and uncombed, conning her well-thumbed lesson in the den of a slattern. They know, indeed, that these people are not exactly the beings whose sentiments delight them; yet they cherish the grateful illusion that they must be at least souls of similar tone, or they could not give so movingly the thoughts of Ion or of Julia. They do not suppose a 'vocalist' to be eternally singing, or a 'tragedian' to sleep in his buskins; but it never enters their heads that these idols of their evening worship can, at other times, condescend to be mere mortals like themselves, or--'sadly unlike anything so innocent.' 
               The moment the mystery is unfolded, the illusion vanishes. The veil was the charm. The fitness of the actor for the 'genteel comedy' in which he made so shining a figure, often becomes more than doubtful when he attempts to play a corresponding part in real life; and he appears even more vulgar and commonplace than he would have done if we had seen him only in his natural position and character. We are disappointed, and wish we had never been tempted to peep behind the scenes. 
               I am far from intending to institute anything like a parallel between actors and authors; yet it has struck me that there is a degree of similarity in the feeling of disappointment which has so often been experienced on a near view of one and the other. Nothing can be more natural at first, than the desire to enjoy the society of authors whose writings have pleased us. If the actor attracts the young, not less surely does the favourite author excite a feeling of interest in maturer minds. We love the intelligent and suggestive companion of our quiet hours. We rank him among our benefactors, and we long for a nearer acquaintance. His person, his voice, his every-day habits and ordinaray sentiments, acquire a certain kind of importance; and for this reason, those biographies which let us most completely into these minuti have ever been esteemed the most precious. We have read the man in his book, however unconscious he may have been that he was writing himself down. 'As a man thinketh, so is he.' No man can write a book without letting his real self peep out, whatever be the style he chooses to assume, or the sentiments he endeavours to adopt for the time. The reader catches glimpses of his face behind a mask. He sees enough to excite curiosity, but not enough to satisfy it. He finds a chord of sympathy, and feels his heart stir with its vibrations. He discovers that some one thinks as he does; loves what he loves; prizes what he most values; has acquired what he most admires and covets. He seeks the writer with a feeling of ready-made intimacy; he is a friend before he is an acquaintance; and he goes, with his heart in his hand, to find another heart which he knows to be congenial. 
               He meets-what? A being whose exterior probably resembles anything rather than the graceful mental image; and who, considering his visitor as a mere stranger, and knowing nothing of the invisible chain so prized by the other, chills him with indifference, or repels him by the aid of an icy shield which he has been forced to adopt as a defence against intrusive impertinence. Wounded self-love, heightened by a feeling nearly akin to disappointed affection, transforms at once to gall the loving sympathy of the disciple, and he retires to add another atom to the mountain of testimony that authors are agreeable only on paper. 
               Once and again has it been my own fortune to encounter in broad daylight, and to behold with my bodily eyes, that mysterious and dream-colored entity-an author; a personage whose imposing eidolon had long tenanted one of the most garnished chambers of my inmost heart. I had pictured this favourite of nature enjoying even in this envious world a sort of apotheosis. Fame blew her sweet-voiced trump before him; Beauty watched for his glance; Wisdom hung on his words; Fortune poured her treasures at his feet; while far in the mighty distance, a countless posterity flung high its shadowy arms at the mention of his name. 
               I saw, as I have said, an author bodily. I surrendered myself to the belief that this was indeed the original of the picture my imagination had drawn. I approached with awe, almost with trembling; but the bright dream faded as I drew night. My idol was of clay-a mere man-a very man-man with all the extra foibles and failings which are avoided by the discreeter part of the species. He was a self-worshipper-an egotist-a boaster; as cold to the claims of others as he was tenacious of his own. He was opinionated-he was morose-he was testy; and, alas! even envious. I turned away heart-sick. I forgot to ascertain his real merits-the points in which he was acknowledged to excel his fellow-men. My disappointment was unreasonable as my expectation had been unwarranted. 
               Why should an author have fewer faults than other men? Why should he not rather have more? He is in the first place a peculiarly sensitive being; as little fitted to encounter with dignity the hard rubs of this struggling world, as to endure with patience its severer ills. The coldness of a friend or the fickleness of fortune, instead of rousing his spirits, discourages and depresses him, leaving him more than ever at the mercy of any of those accidents of life, which afford to men of a different temperament the best opportunities for distinction. He has adopted a profession in which there is no invariable standard of excellence. His pretensions are to be decided upon not by one or two, but by ten thousand judges, a majority of whom must concur in his favour before he can assume the position to which self-love assures him he is undoubtedly entitled. This fluctuation of hope is strikingly unfavourable to that equable and placid mental condition which is a pre-requisite to the enjoyment of society. 
               The habits of an author are indeed almost inevitably anti-social. This world is for some wise reason so ordered, that the good, and charming, and intelligent people in it are distributed very impartially; a little leaven only being allowed in each portion of the mass. No society, however fortunately collocated, possesses any great number of highly cultivated minds; and it certainly falls to the lot of many who are capable of relishing the most refined intellectual lectual tone, to pass through life with scarce an opportunity of tasting this choicest earthly bliss. 'Whoever,' says Curran, 'succeeds in attaining the splendid heights of intellect, will be doomed to find himself in a region nearly uninhabited.' Authors are not rich men; they are not men who choose their position; they are rather, even to a proverb, the sport of fortune. In the narrow ground to which fate usually confines them, they can hope to meet but few minds which can shed light into theirs, or increase their brightness by collision. Is it then surprising that they should fall into the error of preferring the converse of books to that of men? That the study, with its loaded shelves and its shaded lamp, should prove more attractive than the mixed concourse, where a small amount of talent suffices for an unmeasured flow of words, and where the recluse, listless and uninterested, is unable to afford his quota of pleasure, and soon learns to feel himself de trop?
                
               'Reading maketh a full man, writing, an exact man, conference, a ready man,' says Lord Bacon; and truly the habit of seclusion unfits a man more and more for doing himself justice in conversation. 'If he confer little, he need have a present wit,' or he must, with all his reading, prove but a poor auxiliary in the social circle. 
               This same accident of poverty which naturally belongs to authors, since their pursuit is seldom that of money, has many attendant ills. It subjects them to a thousand vexatious hindrances and interruptions, which try their tempers and pervert their views of our common nature and condition. 
               Every author worthy of the name, has at intervals what he himself denominates moments of inspiration, though others may give them the more humble character of periods of mental excitement. Call them what we may, they are inestimable. To be interrupted at these critical points of time by anything whatsoever; to be brought back to cold reality just as the fervid glow promises a torrent of liquid gold, or of thoughts and words infinitely more precious; this would seem enough. But to be dragged down to earth to pay a tradesman's bill out of an empty purse, or to indite, 'as per order,' a penny-a-line paragraph to save the faithful companion who is to partake the triumph from starving ad interim; what, short of madness, could be surprising? And who can doubt that this sketch has often been realized? Of the great Butler, 'all that can be told with any certainty is, that he was poor.' Dryden contracted to furnish ten thousand verses to a bookseller. The laborious Orientalist, Ockley, confesses that in his agonizing efforts to finish his history of the Saracens, he was forced to take advantage of the slumber of his cares, and that his only quiet time was while he was in prison for debt. Were these the men for parlor converse? Ceaseless anxiety on the subject of the mere materials for decent subsistence, is no promoter of gaiety. 'Sweet colloquial pleasures' are not the soothers of 'penury.' 
               Nobody has ever complained that Sir Walter Scott was incommunicative, or Mr. Rogers reserved and morose. In these and similar cases of happy exception to the general rule, we are enabled to perceive what the pursuits of literature can effect for human happiness; and these eminently favoured individuals have evinced their grateful sense of their advantages by an enlarged and diffusive benevolence of soul, united with a corresponding amenity of manners. May their number increase! As to self-esteem, that most pardonable yet least pardoned foible of minds of all calibres, how can an author be expected to eradicate it? Repress it he must, and doubtless does, even when the protuberance is most prodigious to the observer. We see the excrescence, but 
                     'We know na' what's resisted.'
                  
                
                
               Authors are always praised and flattered by some circle or coterie, high or low. This is natural and kind. It arises from a spontaneous benevolence-an impulse which leads people to give that which costs them little or nothing, to one who will appreciate it extravagantly. A dearth in this quarter would save the press many a groan. No man would write a second time, if nobody praised the first effort. Praise serves instead of the divine afflatus which in our day revisits the earth only at rare intervals. It is the vital air of the true author- 
                      
                        'A simple race--they spend their toil 
                        For the vain tribute of a smile;' 
                     
                   and it would be churlish indeed to deny them so cheap a recompense. Now, not more surely does the imponderable gas lift the silken balloon from the level of those who have helped to inflate it, than does this same easy praise puff up the recipient, and inspire him with an idea that an exalted place is his natural right. Then we point at the cords which keep him among us, and laugh cruelly at his aspiring thoughts. 
               But perhaps the inflating power has been insufficient, and the balloon, after hovering and hovering in uneasy suspense, at length falls to the ground, a mere bag. When an author's fate corresponds with this-and there are some to whom the figure applies most lamentably-we berate him for being testy. Who would not be? 
               At best, the appetite for praise is insatiable. The higher the zest, the more does the over-stimulated sense require; and when the acm is reached, the desire is still unquenched. This makes egotists; and we who 
                      
                        'Build him a pedestal, and say, "Stand there, 
                        And be our admiration and our praise,"' 
                     
                  
                   are the first to be disgusted with the legitimate results of our own efforts. 
               What dare I say in extenuation of that proneness to envy which is so often held up to our detestation, in that dreadful dissecting-theatre which we call Literary Biography? When the quivering heart of the author is exposed with professional coolness to the gazing multitude, we are pointed to the dark plague-spot on its surface which tells us that it sickened at the success of another, and we turn away shuddering from the sight. 
               But here again we must recollect that literary merit is reducible to no unerring and universal test. It is a matter referred to taste and fancy, and these must often seem to an author to be governed by mere caprice, partiality, interest, or malice. He has staked his all upon a single throw, and he is maddened by seeing the prize which he had considered his own, snatched by one whose pretensions appear to his blinded eyes as nothing. He believes, indeed, that posterity will do him justice, but he cannot wait for posterity. He is forbidden the open expression of his anguish, and it consumes his heart in silence, or bursts forth in words and actions of which he is himself ashamed. 
               Let us judge him mercifully. If 'every author would his brother kill,' the punishment comes with the offence, and is renewed and redoubled afterward. Pope and Addison poisoned their own springs of happiness while they lived, and, when they were dead, Johnson wrote their biography. 
               But we are straying a little from our subject, which relates rather to the excuses to be made when authors prove less agreeable than their writings. Some have been accused of reserving for the public the good things which rise spontaneously to the lips in the hilarious flow of intimate conversation. This can only be true of those whose necessities are such as to demand the most rigid economy of all the means of life; and this form of economy must be of all others the most painful and odious to a man of genius; so that we should rather commiserate than censure one who would be more liberal if he dared. 
               Among the complaints sometimes adduced against popular writers is their inaccessibility, and also a certain coldness and cautiousness of expression, which bespeaks distrust and suspicion. For this fault, where it exists, it is probable the true cause must be sought in the conduct of such people as the cavillers themselves. If an author has been taught, by vexatious experience that a certain portion of those who seek his society are watching for his sayings, in order to report them, either for the gratification of a very common kind of vanity, or still worse, from a more sordid motive, what marvel that he should be chary of his words, or that he should require very ample letters of credit ere he admit strangers to the sacred fireside? 
               May we not conclude, then, that we expect too much from authors; that we do not enough consider their trials and temptations; that we make less than the proper allowance for their peculiarities of temperament, and overlook too often their points of especial and exclusive merit? 
               If the literary character fell always into hands as generous as those of the elder D'Israeli, the sensitive heart of the man of genius might be at rest as to its posthumous estimation. There is one author at least who seems to have forgotten his own claims to no unenviable place in the republic of letters, in his zeal to show in its full lustre the splendour of departed genius, while he casts the veil of a most fraternal charity over the 'follies of the wise'-the frailties inseparable from humanity, however exalted. 
                
               Women are seldom authors by profession, and the side-blows which have been aimed at those who have ventured occasionally to snatch the pen, have scarcely been such as needed warding off. The beautiful and witty Lady Mary Wortley is indeed said to have 'infested' the table of Lord Oxford; but she was considered a pest, not because she was a bas-bleu, but because she would persist in tormenting Pope, who wished to sink the poet in the lover. Of Madame do Stal it has been observed, that her sincere earnestness of soul was such, that she cherished a boundless sympathy for the most insignificant of her race. Byron said of her that she had not only never ridiculed any one, but that he did not believe she had ever even thought any one ridiculous. Her character as a woman was as worthy of all love, as were her literary achievements of all admiration. And we must believe, from universal testimony, that the female writers who have adorned England within the last age, have sought rather to become the most estimable than the most brilliant of their sex. Nearer than this we must not come; and here we close our remarks for the present. 
                
             
             
                
               
                   
                
                
               LION-HUNTING. 
               WE shall begin our essay on an exciting topic, by stating the dimensions of the field we mean to survey, lest some African traveller, or some admirer of Pringle's poems, should expect to find on our peaceful pages a breath-shortening experience in junglebeating, or a plan of operations by means of which the highly respectable monarch of the woods-a worthy legitimate, who laughs at all question of the morals of bloodshed-might, could, would, or should be taken, and put out of the way of exercising his rights at the expense of others any more. We aim at no such ambitious utterances. Our object is purely domestic; our suggestions point only at the parlour. Our intent is humane, and has reference to waste of life: but it regards the waste, not of blood, but of time. We may offer advice to the traveller, but our counsel will relate to caged animals only, whom to 'poke up' is sometimes dangerous, while to inspect them at feeding-time may safely be pronounced indecorous, at least. We may find ourselves on quaking ground, perhaps; rendered insecure on one side by precipices of ignorance, and on the other by unsuspected sloughs of covert egotism; but we intend to be very wary, very modest, very candid, and very practical; giving our humble opinion in a low tone, and seizing upon all lanterns, crutches, and umbrellas of authority wherever we can find them. 
               It were curious to inquire how and when such peaceful creatures as authors,-sheepish rather than fierce, generally,-acquired the ridiculously inapt sobriquet of 'lions.' Perhaps it was quasi lucus, etc., as we sometimes call the petticoated nursery-youth, who runs away from the cat, a hero. If not so, then must the name date from the period when it first became customary to make a show of whomsoever had written a book; and this looks back no great step into the past. May we not thank ferreting Boswell for putting the world upon the scent? As one man, stopping in the street and gazing intently at nothing on the roof of an opposite house, soon becomes the centre of a crowd, all gazing at nothing like himself, but persuaded there is something if they could but see it; so the strange passion of Boswell for celebrities, and the record he left of his success in that pursuit, set multitudes agog to ascertain what it was that could so arouse the curiosity and quicken the wits of a very dull man. We have no account of any true lion-hunter earlier. Somewhat later, Miss Hannah More was not a little fond of basking in the light of eminent people; but she did not seek literary celebrities in particular. Early in her career, she indeed expressed a warm desire to see 'a live author,' and Dr. Johnson of all others; but she afterwards saw something far more attractive in a bishop. While the fancy lasted, it affords some rich touches of the lion-hunting spirit. 'Miss Reynolds ordered the coach to take us to Dr. Johnson's very own house. Yes! Abyssinia's Johnson! Dictionary Johnson! Rambler's, Idler's, Irene's Johnson! Can you picture to yourselves the palpitation of our hearts as we approached his mansion?' The good lady soon became a lion herself, and saw the matter from within. No raptures after that. Speaking of a select party, she says, coolly, 'Most of the company were 'either wits or worthy people;' and this company included Johnson, the Burneys, Mrs. Chapone, Mrs. Thrale, and other literary lions, the glory all rubbed off by familiar contact. The 'worthy people' stood at least as high as the 'wits,' with whom they were contrasted. 
               The propensity to ascertain the personal traits of those whose writings have interested us, seems then not to be exactly natural, but rather akin to that furore which leads people to pay a shilling apiece to look at the chaise in which a murdered man had been riding, or the cord with which he was strangled. It is an effort to connect the sensible and the abstract, very commendable when the object in view is worth the pains, but certainly futile in most cases of lion-hunting. Youthful curiosity sometimes prompts the delighted observer of last night's drama to rush eagerly behind the scenes this morning; but after he has seen the timbers, the pulleys, the ropes, and the tallow-candles which brought about the dear illusion, what becomes of the fascination? The machinery is wholly uninteresting, though very proper in its place; mechanics and managers can allow for its roughness, but those to whom it is to give pleasure should shun its disenchanting reality. 
               An author necessarily lives much in the world of thought; and it is his business to introduce his readers into that world, and to keep them in it, if he can, in a species of communion delightful to both. That world is wide enough to contain multitudes of friends and friendships. The intercourse of those who inhabit it is near and precious. No incongruities or infelicities of the mere outward, raise chilling barriers between those who would meet in it. No dress is required but that of expressive words; no splendour but splendour of imagery. 'Good society' in that world includes many who are excluded from the make-believe good society of this; etiquette regulates itself, and stands in nobody's way, where companionship goes by affinity. How unwise to drag down the acquaintance of author and reader from this true, natural, unconventionalized world, to such a scene as that of our common go-to-market, brick-and-mortar life! where mental affinities have so little to do with social ones, and where any attempt to seek out soul-kindred among the thousand voluntary or involuntary disguises that shroud it, is like playing 'Button, button, who's got the button?' where one goes about, putting his closed hands mysteriously into everybody's cautiously-opened palms, pretending to give each one the button, which, after all, he reserves for the last, or drops where it is least expected. In the days of magic arts (unlawful ones), to cross a running stream was sure to dissolve the most potent spell; no less dangerous now to the gentler spell of the writer we love is it to cross his humble threshold, and force him to reassume his mere earthly shape. Bold adventurers in the cause of curiosity should reflect on the sight that met the gaze of Madame Blue Beard, and caused her to drop the trial-key on the tell-tale floor. There is no knowing what one may encounter. 
               We shall not attempt to dispute the opinion that a man's body is in some sense the growth of his mind, his dress a further development, his house and furniture another. But are we quite sure of being able to interpret all these things unerringly, in the course of a morning call? Can we distinguish the mental trait which gave rise to a too-long nose, or the peculiar turn of mind which resulted in irregular teeth? Would the most discerning of us be able to trace home to its true parentage an unhappy choice of colours in costume, or guess at the, idiosyncrasy embodied in awkward chairs and tables? The relation may be there, but are we provided with the intellectual witch-hazel that dips towards such occult veins, and enables us to trace them to their source? The richest ore is often so intermingled and overlaid with rubbish, that it takes a subtle test to detect its presence; and the over-confident seeker may well fail to find it, even where the next comer, better furnished, shall grow rich by patient search. Nay, if alloy be necessary in order to it fit pure gold for the uses of this work-a-day-world, how much more pure genius? What could we do with it? It is veiled in very clay, conscious of its obscuration, willing to pass wholly unseen by the bodily eyes even of those who love its manifestations; why should we insist upon gazing at its humiliation? 
               What would society be if it were made up of literary people.' The Irishman's 'apple-pie made all of quinces.' We should soon long for a less piquant and more natural state of things. 'Always partridge!' would make plain boiled beef seem the greater delicacy. Authors, very wisely, do not seek each other's company; they know how dull it would be. They are far better scattered about among the wholesome ingredients of life, like plums in a pudding; a very great addition, certainly, but nothing without the pudding. Let us not put in rash thumbs to pull them out. Rather take our slice with its accompaniments of homely suet and household bread, components that threaten no headache. 
               There is one rather important difference between your literary lion and him of the menagerie-a certain sensitiveness under examination, which ought, perhaps, to be considered when we are discussing the habit of "poking up" notabilities. Gaze through the bars at Felis Leo till you are tired, and he will meet your glance with a lazy stare, or perhaps go to sleep under it. Even if he be at dinner, he does not mind mouthing a bone, or growling a little, as if you were not there. But Infelix Human Leo is not gifted with this power of face. He feels your presence; he feels your eye. The gazer and the gazer are necessarily at conflicting poles, and there is magnetic discomfort between them. As man and man, you might have met, on the top of the Himalayas, very harmoniously, and found out sundry affinities; which exist all the same, but will never become available, between man and lion. And it must never be forgotten that as in the fable, the lion has the worst of it. He is condemned to individualization, while his observers have the comfort and shelter of numbers, as like themselves and each other as pins. One must be very sensible, or very insensible, not to consider peculiarity a misfortune. We would not assert that one cannot rise above this, but that it is difficult. Sir Walter Scott would say to the friends in London with whom he was staying, 'Well! do you want me to play lion to-day? I will roar, if you like it, to your hearts' content:' And afterwards, when the party had dwindled, and he found himself in private again, he amused himself with the recollection of his efforts to act up to his character, and quoted, 'Yet know that I one Snug the joiner am, no lion fierce;' and laughed heartily at the conceit. 
               Yet even he was forced beyond his civility sometimes, as on one occasion by two visitors at Abbotsford,-from the United States, we blush to say,-who not only thrust themselves upon his family in his absence, without any introduction, but would have spent the day, satisfying their curiosity by asking numberless impertinent questions,-among the rest the ages of the poet and his wife,-if Scott had not, on his return, pointedly dismissed them, an act of self-defence for which he could hardly forgive himself, although the lion-hunters had outraged all decency in their intrusion. It is thus that the matter always stands between the game and the pursuer, in these cases. The latter has it all in his own hands. If the quarry, in desperation, turn and stand at bay, he is a sad brute surely! His penchant for privacy is pride or self-conceit; his desire to possess his soul in quiet, ingratitude. Only this last summer, a distinguished foreign writer, then travelling in our country, incurred not a little censure, at a fashionable watering-place, because she ventured to signify her desire to be alone, sometimes, on the shore of the great ocean! Can anything be more tyrannical than this interference with private taste and habits? Even a nature genial and affectionate as hers, was put upon the defensive, for the gentlest bird will ruffle its feathers if the sanctity of its nest be invaded. 
               No legitimate inference can be drawn as to the tone of an author's character by the readiness or unwillingness with which he allows himself to be made a lion of, i. e. puts his time and thoughts at the disposition of other people. If the enthusiasm of pursuit be true and unaffected, as it often is, kindness dictates that it should not be chilled by realities necessarily unsatisfying; and also that the power of giving further pleasure by the pen be not frittered away in such bald discourse as can alone arise between people who come together under unnatural circumstances. If, as will sometimes happen, a vulgar curiosity be too evident, good-nature will indeed prescribe toleration, but can hardly inspire the cordial, satisfied, and quite-at-home manner which assures the lion-hunter that his visit is not unwelcome. There is therefore a sort of necessity for a put-on manner, since natural behaviour is very likely to offend. Now the worst-tempered man may, for popularity's sake, adopt a kindly manner, so that there is absolutely nothing to be gathered as to character from the seeming mildness of a poked lion. 
               But if the worried creature be cross, is it therefore to be concluded that he does not feel flattered by the attention he receives? Not at all. He is flattered, but not in a comfortable way; not in a way that saves the necessity of blushing. He would rather have the implied praise in some other shape. He covets the shelter of impersonality. Approbation and sympathy are the nourishment, though not the life, of his power to give pleasure; but there are few people blessed with such happiness of expression as to be able to manifest these acceptably at first sight, or in such a way as not to embarrass the receiver. It is sometimes said that it is "the hardest thing in the world to say 'Thank you!'" but is it not a still harder thing to make an appropriate reply to 'Thank you'? So a handsome compliment may be devised at leisure, but who has not pitied the sad straits to which it often reduces the person addressed? 
               But why must it be supposed that compliments are in question? Ah! there we come a little nearer to the soul of lion-hunting. When, in the common and natural intercourse of life, a palpable, direct compliment is offered, we call it flattery, and despise it. Yet we take the liberty of praising our lion to his face, as if he were a mere image or soulless shell of a man; an abstraction, an intellectual apparition, without the universal human attributes: one belonging so entirely to another sphere, that we may discuss him in his own presence, and decide upon his doings, like an Egyptian court of death settling the rank of a defunct for the unseen world. We remember hearing a distinguished author say, "When people talk to me about my 'works,' I feel as if I were dead" and buried!'" No wonder! Divings into one's inner self ought to be post mortem; to be demonstrated upon while one is yet alive must be excruciating. 
               Nobody can be long an editor without observing one curious fact respecting the class of persons who present themselves to his professional notice, viz.: that every one of them fancies his own to be an exceptional case, worthy the especial attention of Mr. Editor, who is expected to show his judgment, his sympathy, and his admiration, by devoting a considerable portion of time to the service of his unknown correspondent. On the other hand, the editor knows, to his sorrow, that fifty of these persons have equal claims upon him, and that to gratify or satisfy them all would leave him bankrupt in time and fortune. So a part, if not the whole, must be passed over in silence, or 'respectfully declined.' Will any reasonable being blame our editorial friend for doing as he cannot help doing? How can his good-nature, or the kindest heart in the world, help him in performing the impossible? So with our lion. His day is no longer than other men's days, his life apt to be shorter. He takes as long to dress and dine and sleep; must give as much time to exercise and amusement as other people, and feels also the necessity, which perhaps some other people do not feel, of devoting a certain (or uncertain) portion of the day to study, or other mental gymnastics. It would be difficult to determine how large a share of his precious hours he ought to be expected to give up to strangers, when he has not half as many as he wants for his friends. Any one or two of these, who desired to see him because they had read and admired his writings, he might be happy to gratify, but what is he to do for the rest? 
               It will not be suspected that we would justify writers more than other men in being selfish and unsocial. We would but plead that they should be allowed, like other men, to choose their own companions. Personal intercourse is a very peculiar and a very unmanageable thing. As a means of pleasure, it must be natural and unconstrained. On any other footing it is a mere penance, its nature entirely changed, its very heart taken out. It owes its charm to love, not admiration. It is a scene of equality and sympathy, not of flattery on one side and suffering modesty or ridiculous conceit on the other. It must be a spontaneous growth, or it runs into fantastic and unpleasing forms. Let one member of a circle feel that he is as decidedly and pointedly an object of attention to the rest as if every one had a lorgnette levelled at him, and the power to be himself would be the most wonderful one he could possess. Add the consciousness that he is liable to be shown up,-coolly daguerreotyped, body and mind, for some morning paper, or monthly magazine, or dashing book of travels,-and we have an incompetent notion of the position of a good-natured lion. Other portrait painters have the grace to inquire if the picture meets the ideas of the sitter and his friends, but those who paint lions never do so. They draw a picture and write the name under it, and there it stands for a likeness forever, though the artist may have been indebted to fancy or prejudice for every feature. Oh, it must be miserable, considering how rare is a true limning genius of this kind, to feel that one is being dashed off at a single sitting, when vanity whispers that it would take even an artist a good while to see us as we really are. The meekness with which great authors bear this every day, should pass for something like an offset against those trails which have caused the whole craft to be reputed a genus irritabite.
                
               But this reminds us that some Mrs. Leo Hunter may say that our remarks do not apply to all literary notabilities, since there are some authors who like to be pursued, and pointed out, and complimented; who will entertain their admirers by reciting their own verses, reading aloud from their own books, and finding in every theme something which obliges them to refer to their own published opinions. In these cases it would seem to us that the lion is doing his best to cure the hunter of his mania, by making himself very ridiculous, or very tiresome. We own to having hunted lions in our day, and to having seen an occasional specimen of this kind. Perhaps the habit of being chased induces ingenious devices of self-defence. If so, this is certainly one of the most effectual. We are crushed, like the misguided damsel of old, who betrayed her native city, by a surplus of the very things we coveted. To ask for a drink, and have a pail of water thrown over us, would be a trifle in comparison. 
               It is the object of some moralists to strip life of all its illusions. We, on the contrary, believe that we were meant to have our better part nourished by them, all our journey through. A cast-iron distinctness given to every truth seems to us just as undesirable as a solid monotony in the face of external nature,-flowers that could not fade, skies ever blue or leaden, food to be picked up at the road-side without the trouble and pleasure of winning it from the bosom of the earth, and humanity capable of being shown up in diagrams and described in form of Q. E. D. Let us have some fascinations! Let us have some dreams and fancies that we cannot wholly describe or explain; let us acknowledge the power and value of something besides pure reason. Let us pleasantly imagine authors to be the embodiment of their best thoughts, and not wilfully disenchant ourselves by seeking them as authors! When we meet them on common social ground, when circumstances bring us into their natural sphere, they are as agreeable as other people, perhaps, in happy cases, even more so, from coming out of their retirement fresh, and in the humour to enjoy society by contrast. In short, (as Mr. Micawber would say,) as human beings, they are very much like other people; it is only as lions that we need fear them. 
               We knew a little boy once who was very fond of playing bear,-the said bear being personated by a good-natured gentleman, who would get down upon all-fours under the table, and perform certain roars, with his head peeping out a little from beneath the cloth. But it was funny to see our youthful bear-leader, after arranging the whole affair himself,-putting his friend under the table and begging him to roar,-run away and hide his head in his mother's lap the very instant the performance began. So we confer, by the power of imagination, a fictitious dignity upon our lions. This is well: and, in order to enjoy the illusion, it is also well to run away from them afterwards. 
               One pleasant experience there is, we must confess, connected with the unpoetical business of lion-hunting. It sometimes occurs that a man of genius, whom we have known at first only as a lion, remains so long within our sphere that the spell is broken, and he reassumes his natural and more lovely human shape, no longer a wonder, but a friend. No transformation in the Arabian Nights is half so charming. Query, whether the story of Beauty and the Beast may not shadow forth a benign change of this sort? To be sure, Beauty met with Beast by accident; she did not go in search of him. Perhaps if she had he would have died a quadruped, and never had an opportunity of showing his highest qualities. These spells are strange things; one never knows how they are going to work. 
               It is out of pure kindness that we have taken the trouble to give the inexperienced these hints. Authors can doubtless take care of themselves, and be "not at home," when they choose, as coolly as fashionables. So we are not volunteering a defence of their privacy. Our remarks are intended for people who romantically desire merely to gaze upon the outward guise of those whose works have delighted them, or those less noble ones who fancy it a nice thing to know notabilities. (In this latter spirit we heard one little dirty boy say to another in the street, "Have you seen Jinny?" as if he had known the lady in question all his life.) But our pains are probably thrown away, for the infinite multiplication of writers in our day threatens soon to make it rather remarkable not to have written a book. So, as far as there is any exclusivism about pencraft, it is likely to be reversed. An inmate of Bedlam is said to have congratulated himself and his fellows that they were shut up in that strongly-walled building to preserve them from a mad world outside. So those who have refrained from literary effort may one day be lions in their turn. It becomes them to beware. 
             
             
                
               AUTOGRAPHS. 
               IF we were inclined to show up popular fallacies, we should hardly know where better to begin than with this one-That it is a compliment to ask for an autograph.
                
               An autograph is a manifestation-an exhibition of one's private personality-a confession that we think ourselves somebody, (a verity safely owned only to intimate and tried friends;)-a proof tangible that our instinctive modesty has suffered some abrasion from contact with the public. It is a spiritual knock, given at the invocation of one who desires to piece out his inward life at our expense, refraining even thanks, because he thinks it costs us nothing. It is 'black and white'-proverbially dangerous. It is a lock of one's mental and moral hair, given to be speculated upon by diviners who are by no means likely to be soothsayers. It is a subtraction from our potency, cheapening all future autographs. It is a pas seul, executed before a whole battery of lorgnettes, or a pathetic song breathed into an ear-trumpet. It is, in short, something that every body, without exception, would avoid giving if they could, and yet something which, being reputed a trifle, every body is ashamed to refuse. 
               A compliment! Does any one, however enthusiastic, ever ask an autograph for the purpose of complimenting the person asked? On the contrary, each autograph is but an infinitesimal contribution to a book which the collector takes much pride in showing; a book in which notorieties of all dimensions, from Dr. Johnson to Dr. Dodd-from John Milton to-no! we will not invidiously indicate the converse poet-to John Smith-figure on equal terms. One's vanity must have a most sensitive palate to taste a complement of that size. For, in truth, one's soul-pirouette on paper is thus converted into the mere twirl of a single performance in a grand ballet, constituting the minutest possible item of a whole which passes like a flash, and leaves the spectator without any perception save of an impersonal exhibition, in which each individual flattered himself that he alone was conspicuous. If the sign-manual were placed under glass, in a fine frame, to be hung up full in the eye of the asker, or enshrined in a vellum case, to be brought forth on special occasions, that the owner might say, with reverential air, to a favoured friend, 'This is the handwriting of the great Snooks,' or simply, 'of Snooks,' implying the utter superfluity of adjectives to such a name-why there might be something complimentary supposed when one is required to stand and deliver on peril of reputation. 
               There is but one aspect in which we can view the request as a compliment-it is as implying a flattering opinion of the benignity of our temper. That it does imply this, was proved by the unpleasant surprise of a romantic youth of our whilom acquaintance, who ventured to request of a certain notability the favour of an autograph, when the said notability wrote him a few rasping lines, the purport of which was the absurdity of intruding upon people with such demands upon their time and attention. In justice to our youthful friend, we cannot refrain from adding that he replied to this missile by a very polite note, begging pardon for having made so great a mistake, and returning the autograph.
                
               Was it pride, or modesty, or mere ill-temper, that made the great man thus crusty to his young admirer? Perhaps something of all. Pride and modesty are at one in such matters. Pride whispers a caution against such a very small way of claiming reputation, and modesty represents and claim by one's own act as an infringement upon her rules; while ill-temper, always unsocial, flouts at the intrusion by a stranger upon our privacy, especially in the shape of a call to exhibition or salutation, as if he should say, 'Make a bow, Johnny! Johnny, make a bow!' 
               In truth, most young enthusiasts think authors impersonal, and raised above the ordinary conventions and restraints of society; while to the poet or the novelist his social relations are far more important to him, for the present, than his more renown, be that great as it may. It was said of Scott, that he prided himself much more upon being sheriff of Roxburgh, than upon having written the Waverley novels; and once, when some silly people came into his house without introduction, and treated him as if he had been a mere idea rather than a man and a gentleman, he dismissed them in a way that must have made the blood tingle to their fingers' ends. Ask a merchant or a lawyer for his autograph, and he will suspect you for a swindler; but an author is considered as being so far removed from the business relations of life, that he will, without a misgiving, write himself down whatever you please to require; and if he declines, he is stamped as a churl. This is hardly fair. 
               As to the trouble. It seem a small matter to take up a pen and trace a certain number of letters on paper; but how if one does this a dozen times a day? Now, if it would be rather troublesome to write twelve notes, for the sake of signing one's name to each, to gratify the whim of twelve persons whom one has never seen, it is certainly something for each of the dozen to ask, and compliance ought to be somewhat esteemed. Is it so? Is not the maker of autographs considered rather the obliged party? Let us whisper to the world that he very seldom feels so, at least after his wings are quilled. Not that he would not be ashamed to refuse, but that he is half ashamed to comply. There is a secret sense of the ridiculous inseparable from this affair, except with people hopelessly sentimental, and a man does not willingly come into sentimental relations with strangers, except through the cooling and equalizing medium of print. Some who can be confidential and jocose under this shield, are the most bashful, silent, sensitive creatures in the world any where else, with a personality too tender to brook the least invasion. Who shall blame them for wearing the right arm in a sling when autograph-hunters are about? 
               But after all, there is an error at the very root of the common practice on this subject. To ask your author to write his name for you is like asking a lady to blush, or setting an olian harp to play Hail Columbia. The daguerreotype men say 'Keep that pleasant smile, if you please!' and what is the consequence? 
               The truth of this matter, as of many others of the same kind, is that, in things connected with the imagination, we cannot force circumstances. If, in our desire to possess a butterfly, we grasp him with main strength, that which made him attractive is gone forever. There is something furtive about a true autograph; we should come at it obliquely, and not by direct attack. A name written at the request of a stranger is only about as valuable as the same name stamped by machinery. To have any character, it should have been written in a careless or confidential moment, without the recollection that there was a collection in the world. As the iron grasp of the daguerrotype-chair magnetically empties the face of all human expression, so does the vice-like compulsion of an abrupt demand turn one's patronymic, with its baptismal additions, into a mere row of soulless letters, from which no same clairvoyant could deduce anything. 
               So much for our theory on this matter. Practically, we should doubtless feel much flattered if anybody should ever request our autograph; and casting Pride and Modesty at once to the winds, give it with a hand trembling through pleasant flutter, and a countenance that might be mistaken for that of Benignity herself. We have only attempted a word of friendly advice. 
             
             
                
               LITERARY WOMEN. 
               LET it not be for a moment supposed that we are about to attempt a crusade in defence of blue-stockings! Better undertake, single-handed, to lay a T rail to the Pacific, tunnelling the Rocky Mountains. Whether the prejudice entertained against this class-is it numerous enough to claim the title of a class?-be just or not, it is most potent; and, like the deaf adder, it stoppeth its ears. We hardly know of one more obstinate, unless it be that against old maids,-or that other, perhaps worse one, against stepmothers. 
               Now, prejudices are very respectable things. They have antiquity and ancestry in their favour. They enjoy unflinching allegiance from many very dignified and important people. They partake of the nature of faith, the most consolatory and consonant of all the tendencies of the human mind. They save the trouble of argument and reflection, and all the discomfort of doubt. Who, then, will rashly quarrel with prejudices? 
               To be sure they may be occasionally the cause of injustice; even the epithet cruel has been from time to time applied to them by precise and over-conscientious people. They often sweep into one category instances the most obviously incongruous, forcing into a single class individuals of all sizes, till the array is like that of the army in Bombastes Furioso, which consists of 'three-foot drummer, six-foot fifer, two very odd privates, and the general.' Prejudice never wastes time in sifting or weighing, measuring or comparing. It glories at once in the promptitude and the irrevocableness of its decisions. It is fond of whirling a sword horizontally, and feels quite clear of any guilt when heads are sliced off. The only thing that makes it at all nervous, is the head's venturing to talk afterwards. This is lse majest--'most tolerable and not to be borne.' 
               Therefore, we shall not attempt it,-least of all when literary women are in question. It is many a long year, many a dusty century, since this would have been safe. In the days of Miriam or Deborah, perhaps-but that was in the world's callow time, before lordship had become so much an object of desire among the stronger part of creation, and before education had been brought to offer its all-potent arm in aid of this design. Now-a-days, to be betrayed into the quixotism of defending blue-stockings, is to allow one's self to be suspected of wearing them. The utmost extent to which our courage will carry us is some little examination, after the natural-history fashion; some search into growth and properties, aims, destiny, and uses, or no-uses. And to keep very clear of all ungenerous imputations of sympathy, we shall take care to deal with the subject after the desultory, unsystematic, and feminine manner. We repudiate learning; we disclaim accuracy; we abjure logic. We shall aim only at the pretty prattle which is conceded to our sex as a right, and admired as a charm. 
               How many literary women has any one person ever seen? How many has the world seen? How would the list compare in length with that of the pretty triflers who never in the whole course of their mortal lives took up a book with the least intention of obtaining any information from it? The spite which is generally nourished against these unhappy ladies implies great respect; for their numbers are too insignificant to attract notice, if the individuals were not of consequence. And it may be noticed here, as being particularly curious, that the man who declaims loudest against the idea of a writing woman, is sure to be the most vain-glorious of the smallest literary performance on the part of his wife or daughter. The gift of a place does not sooner silence a vehement patriot, than the first essay or magazine story produced by a lady of his family does the indignant definer of 'woman's sphere,' with a pudding and a shirt for its two poles. 
               But as to the comparative scarcity of literary ladies. It seems strange to a simple looker-on that they should not be prized, at least on the principle of the Queen Anne's farthing, which, valueless in itself, became precious because there were but four struck. There is not even yet a 'mob of gentle[women] that write with ease,' Women are said to be peculiarly favoured in the possession of the quality called 'passive courage,' (fortitude?) one of the benevolent provisions of nature for need-but they have always, as a body, shown a good deal of cowardice in this matter. The risks are too fearful. So that really the number is kept down as low as prudence can desire. It would require no Briareus to count on his fingers all that have dabbled in ink during the last century. No fear of usurpation; no danger that the pen will be snatched from strong hands and wielded in defiance, or even in self-defence. A handful of chimney swallows might as well be suspected of erecting their quills against the eagles-or owls. Swallows! literary ladies are hardly more abundant than dodos. 
               Now let us ask what is the distinguishing mark of the literary woman of our day. Is it inky fingers-corrugated brows-unkempt locks-unrighteous stockings-towering talk-disdain of dinner-aspirations after garments symbolical of authority-any or all of these? Who pretends anything of the kind? One could almost wish there were some startling peculiarities, even though exhibited by only a few individuals, to break up the uniformity of society. What a treat it would be to see a blue enter a party with the suitable airs, and cross the awful space of carpet which sometimes intervenes between the door and the hostess, with gown pinned up from the mud, or one black slipper and one white one, the unconscious head all the while nodding graciously on either side, secure of the due effect of the entre! But alas! no literary lady, since Mrs. Ann Royall, has borne about with her the least outward token of the dreaded power within. Curls, ribbons, bracelets, bouquets, fans-not an item lacking; all correct, to the very shoe-tie. Here surely is a title to respect-a claim to the feminine character, though a loss to society. Lady Mary Wortley Montagu did better when she received her English visiters at Venice in a mask and domino, as a reproof to their curiosity. 
               And as in dress, so in other matters. Whether from the increased facilities of life, or because the world has grown older, and so more cunning and commonplace, there is no telling a bookish woman any more, even in her housekeeping. There are no more cobwebs in literary parlours than elsewhere. The presence of 'books that are books' does not necessarily now imply the absence of books which are principally covers and 'illustrations.' All sorts of unmanageable and worse than useless bindings may be found intermixed with plain, serviceable duodecimos, and the blue, and yellow, and gray paper of the Reviews and Magazines. Even an inkstand does not take the place of nick-nacks and pretty lumber, though these generally drive the more suspicious article into a by-corner. 
                
               'There is a general notion,' says Sydney Smith, 'that if you once suffer women to eat of the tree of knowledge, the rest of the family will soon be reduced to the same aerial and unsatisfactory diet.' But the children of literary mammas seem to be nearly as well cared for, as if their mothers did not, or could not read-which is probably in some minds the criterion of a thoroughly admirable wife and mother. They are even found in some cases to entertain the profoundest and most tender affection for her whom society agrees to consider a deluded female. This would seem as if a love of books did not quite extinguish the affections, or the qualities which inspire affection. 'Would a mother desert her infant for a quadratic equation?' says the satirist just quoted. And it remains to be proved that there is greater complaint of missing buttons, or more neglect of the 'stitch in time,' in consequence of some use of the pen as well as the thimble, than in houses where the only amusement is dressing, and the only serious employment scolding the servants. 
               With regard to domestic government, the point on which the sensitive wisdom of the world is most alarmed-fearing lest the staff of authority should be wrested from the grasp of the legal ruler by hands that were long ago decided to be too weak to wield it, even if peaceably accorded-does it not seem as if the want of interest in home affairs, which is charged as a natural fault in the literary lady, should set at rest any dread of her usurping too large a share of direction in home arrangements? Is it the absentminded, absorbed, wool-gathering, star-gazing dame that will quarrel to have the bacon fried instead of boiled? Will she recall the eyes ever 'in fine frenzy rolling,' to the dull earth long enough or with interest enough to insist upon new carpets? It seems as if one fear or the other must be unfounded. Either literary women care about domestic matters or they do not. If they do, their employments cannot be objected against as interfering with exclusively feminine duties; if not, surely their husbands need not fear improper interference. 
               But we have hitherto neglected to inquire what it is that entitles a woman to the appellation of literary; or perhaps we should express the matter better, if we should say, what fastens upon her that imputation. Must she have written a book? Phbus Apollo! how few then have claims upon a tabouret at thy court! And must the size of the book be taken into account? Then those who dilate most unscrupulously will sit highest. Or will the number of volumes settle precedence? There will, in that case, be little room for any but Mrs. Ellis, Mrs. Gore, and their immediate sisterhood. But to the point. If not a book, will a poem be sufficient? or an essay? or a magazine article? Then more of us are included in the glory or odium of female authorship. Or does writing letters make one literary? In these Californian days it is to be hoped not, lest some of our fair friends should be tempted to neglect their absent brothers rather than be liable to misconstruction, in so important a particular. Writing letters sometimes ends in writing books, as more than Madame de Sevign can testify. How is it with keeping a journal? Does that come within the canon? Might it not be maliciously interpreted into writing a book in disguise? 
               Does the toleration for which a female writer may hope depend in any degree upon the class of subjects which may engage her pen? We have an idea that some gentlemen would award a palm (no pun, positively,) to her who writes a Cook's Oracle, where a rod or a fool's cap would be the doom of a lady who should presume to touch political economy. Next to a family receipt-book, one would suppose books of instruction for children would be most popular in female hands; but there is no doubt that some men think Mrs. Barbauld wore, or should have worn, a beard, and would be surprised to see a picture of Mrs. Trimmer in petticoats. The novel of fashionable life, provided it have no suspicion of a moral, and make no pretension to teach anything whatever, may pass as feminine, without detracting from the fame of its author; but a novel with the least bit of bone in it is 'mannish'-a very different term from 'manly.' Poetry, provided it be of the sigh-away, die-away cast, does not injure a lady's reputation; acrostic-making is considered quite an accomplishment, and so are watch-paper verses; but poetry which some unthinking, out-of-the-world critics praise as 'masculine' for vigour and freshness, is insufferable. If we could show to some objectors the delicate Elizabeth Barrett Browning-the minutest, most fragile, most ethereal creature the sun ever shone upon, with a voice like a ringdove's, we might swear in vain to her identity as the author of some of the strongest and bravest poetry that has appeared in our day; so obstinate a conviction exists in some minds of the close connexion between mental power and masculine coarseness. 
               It seems a little inconsistent that anybody should venture in our day to put such dangerous weapons as the ologies into the hands of a sex to whose peculiar charms too much mind is known to be so fatal. Why not leave a girl in the hands of the nurse until she is fit to be transferred to those of the seamstress, the pastry-cook, the dancing-master, the teacher of music, in succession? Why occupy precious hours and risk fine eyes over even French and Italian, which could be learned in colloquy with these artists? Why not adapt means to ends? Is it certain that school-knowledge will pass in at one ear and out at the other? If not, how far safer not to impart it! Considering the advantage that may be taken of it, the unsexing and unsphering that may ensue upon an indiscreet use of it, surely it were best to send Grammar and History, Philosophy and Mathematics, to the limbo of forgotten things, as far as females are concerned. If Madame de Stal had been brought up only to sing and dance, regulate household affairs, and tend children, would she have written the books which provoked Napoleon to banish her from Paris? If Mrs. Somerville had spent years sitting with her feet in the stocks and her arms pinioned in a back-board to make her genteel, while her eyes were employed in counting bead-work, or devising stitches in crochet, could she ever have lowered herself by writing about the geography of the heavens? Prevention is certainly better than cure. Choke the fountain rather than have to dam the river (no pun will be suspected here). Shut up our schools for young ladies; bid the teachers 'go spin!' Use the copy-books for recipes or papillottes; the learned treatises popularized 'for the use of schools' to kindle fires less to be dreaded than those of literary ambition: and if our daughters should not thereafter be 'like polished stones at the corners of the temple,' they will at least make kitchen-hearths, which we all know to be a far more obviously useful part of the social edifice. 
               One great duty of woman, if not the greatest, is to be agreeable. Now, if teaching her to think for herself, and so putting her upon the temptation of expressing her thoughts, imperil in the least degree this her high avocation, we vote for the instant abandonment of female cultivation, and would advocate a heavier fine on selling to a female under forty, unaccompanied by parent or guardian, a card of Joseph Gillott's pens, than for allowing a paper of poison to go from the shop unlabelled. We would be the very Jack Cade of legislators for such offenders. To be sure there may be question as to the universality of the feeling on which our zeal is predicated. Some men openly profess to like intelligent women, and there are doubtless others who in secret do not altogether reprobate the use of the pen in female hands, although they may for harmony's sake refrain from the avowal of such liberality, except, as we have hinted, the case fall within the limits of their own family circle, when they usually go beyond mere toleration. It is very desirable that unanimity be obtained in this matter. The natural desire to be agreeable will be quite strong enough to set things right after they are fully understood. To stand well with all men will far outweigh the penurious and timid praise of a few. So true is this that Madame de Stal herself confessed that she would gladly give her intellect and her fame for beauty! 
               But is beauty always the alternative? Ah, there is an important question. Many scandals have been uttered against the outward charms of literary ladies. 'Ugly!' said a celebrated poet in our own hearing, on this very topic; 'ugly, yes-they all are!' Which must mean that lines of thought are disadvantages to the peculiar charm of the female face-an equivocal compliment, rather. But waiving this delicate point, is the face which has no lines of thought, on that account beautiful? If not, how fearful the risk of leaving the head unfurnished! If the face may be vacant, yet not lovely-if we may neglect the brain without securing the beauty, how difficult becomes the decision of the parent. In old times-happy times!-when fairies attended at the birth of daughters, and offered choice of gifts, the balance between beauty and good sense was easily struck. It was understood that to select the one, precluded all chance of obtaining the other without a new and more compulsive spell. Now, without any great insight into futurity rity, and with only a little fat beginning of a face, with a button nose and twinkling eyes to guide our estimate of probabilities of comeliness, while on the other hand frowns the fear lest furnishing the brain may, by giving a superabundance of meaning to the face, mar the promise of beauty, how anxious must be the deliberation! A critical survey of society might lead one to suppose that with some parents a decision proves impossible, the poor child being left to grow up without either beauty or brains. 
               Our own convictions on this subject were rendered unalterable some years since, in the course of a lecture by a young gentleman before a debating society, at whose sitting we were so happy as to assist. The question was one not unfrequently discussed on those occasions-the comparative education of the sexes. Our friend was warm against sharing the sciences with women. His picture of the ideal blue-stocking, a hideous man-woman, with high-crowned cap and spectacles, hoarse voice and masculine stride, still haunts our imagination, and has ever proved an effectual scare-crow in that field. On the other hand, his fancy's sketch of a charming young person, was such as to leave in one's mind a somewhat confused mass of roses, lilies, smiles, blushes, pearls, snow, raven's wings, and Aurora's fingers, very fascinating, though suggestive of despair to most of the sex. But what made the most distinct impression on our memory was the question, repeated in various forms as different branches of knowledge were examined with reference to their fitness for female use-'Will it render her more alluring? Here lay the key-far more potent than Blue Beard's, which locked up only women literally headless-to the whole popular philosophy of female claims on the score of intellect. This hint as to the object of woman's being, solved a world of doubts. Here was a touchstone by which to try any pursuit-a test to determine the value of any talent. Whatever does not conduce to the grand aim must be, if not noxious, at best indifferent. Whoever contends that an education regulated by this principle would leave woman insignificant and unhappy, shows only his ignorance of the world; for do we not see every day splendid people who avow it, consciously or unconsciously? and can splendid people be unhappy or insignificant? 
               There is one potent argument against allowing women in habits of literary employment-the injury that would arise to the great cause of public amusements. Our theatres would be worse filled even than they are at present, and the opera would cease its languishing existence at once, if the fair eyes that now are fain to let down their "fringed curtains" as a veil against the intensity of floods of gaslight, should learn to prefer the shaded study-lamp at home, and the singing of the quiet fire to the louder efforts of the cantatrice. Dancing, except in horrible sobriety, after the piano, would become obsolete; waltzing might be studied in the abstract, or as an illustration of the revolution of the heavenly bodies; but 'certain stars' would no longer 'shoot madly from their spheres,' to join the giddy round in person. Parties would break up at eleven; for eyes and nerves would so rise in value if put to serious use, that any wilful expenditure of their powers would soon be voted mauvais ton; and if that should ever happen, adieu to suppers and champagne! There is really no end to the overturn that might result from an innovation of this sort. Imagination pictures the splendid fabric of Fashion tottering to its fall-undermined by that seemingly impotent instrument, the pen, wielded by female hands. We shrink from our own picture of so mournful a reversal of the present happy state of things. It is one of the perversities of the imagination to torment itself with delineations of what can never by any possibility occur; and this is truly a case in point. 
               The truth being conceded that no women but those who are ugly and unattractive should or do write, a thought suggests itself with respect to the limited duration of the beauty which is so justly considered the most desirable of female possessions, and the most natural and proper bar to any extensive cultivation of the mind. As none but very robust beauty lasts beyond forty, would it not be advisable to establish schools, specially fitted for that age, in which the remains of a lovely woman might have an opportunity of some education suited to the thirty years which may be supposed still to lie before her? It would be irksome to pass so long a period in silence, and mortifying to continue to talk nonsense without rosy lips to set it off. Here a certain amount of knowledge might be communicated by those whom inexorable plainness of person had condemned to intellectual exercises in early life; and the circumstance might prove mutually beneficial, since the husbands of the once beautiful would undoubtedly be willing to pay liberally for having some ideas infused into their minds, as provision for the conversation of old age. The face could no longer be injured, while the head, and perhaps the heart too, might gain materially. 
                      
                        'Teeth for the toothless, ringlets for the bald, 
                        And roses for the cheeks of faded age-' 
                     
                   would be valueless, compared with this more potent elixir of life. The practice of the old surgeons, who sometimes filled the shrunken veins of decreptitude with the rich blood of bounding youth, might be considered a precedent for such efforts as we propose. Scruples were sometimes entertained as to the lawfulness of that mode of repairing the decay of Nature; but to the attempt to make education the substitute for beauty, we are sure society will not object, even though the result should be that 'dim horror'-a literary woman. 
             
             
                
               ABOUT PRESENTS. 
                
                   
                     
                         
                           "For his bounty, 
                           There was no winter in't; an autumn 'twas 
                           That grew the more for reaping." 
                        
                      
                     "-SHAKSPEARE. 
                   
                
                
                   
                     
                        "Presents endear absents."
                      
                     -C. LAMB. 
                   
                
                
                  
                     "Nothing can give that to another which it hath not in itself."
                   
                
               WELL! it is provoking! I do well to be angry! Cannot one give away the merest trifle, without suffering the insult of being paid for it by a "present" ten times as valuable? And without the least disguise, too! The same article, made grand, gilded, glorious! This is a mean world! 
               Bishop Butler says it would be hard to do justice in this world if it were not for resentment; so, perhaps I should never have had half as many thoughts on the subject of presents, or half as clear an idea of it, if I had not been roused by this instance of mistake. Let me try to bring good out of evil, by setting forth, for the benefit of others, some of the views that have come to me while I have sat thinking over this matter, in what may be called a tingling state of mind. If I seem to be cross, and to forget that this is a world of mixed motives, the reader will pardon me. 
               Gifts used to be pleasant things, in the early and simple days of this world's life, when men wore the faces and hearts God had given them, and not faces and hearts made to order, of stone or ice. They were considered-and truly-the most natural expression of good-will and affection among great as well as little children. The impulse exists now-it must exist forever, for it assimilates us nearer to God than any other; but it is carefully smothered and kept under by those who have had some taste of the world's present temper. Some few there may be-dreamers, theorists-who still venture upon overt acts of this kind; but how the cold eye, the embarrassed and formal speech of thanks, will reprove their old-fashioned folly! The sagacity on which we pride ourselves, delights not only in stripping life of all its illusions-which, indeed, we call delusions, worthy the scorn of so philosophical an age-but in making its reckoning of illusions include as many of our simple pleasures as possible. O, saddest delusion of all! Why should we perversely ferret out and lay bare the very frame-work of our life-the strong inner elements of all that we are and do-only that we may try to re-clothe the simple form with something of our own invention-something as far as possible removed from nature and common humanity-something that can be bought with money! As well tear away the skin and tissues-the very muscle-from a human figure, and then wrap it in satin and gold to improve its beauty. Where is the sympathy-where the warmth-where the life, that gave it value and the highest beauty? We may dissect, but we cannot revive it. It has became a subject for speculation and science, but all that we loved is gone. Campbell's apostrophe to 'star-eyed science' may well be echoed in many a matter more humble than that to which he alluded. She 'brings us back a message of despair' whenever we send her beyond her legitimate field, or on wrong errands in the service of pride and selfishness. Certain of the French writers oftenest quoted on points relating to the motives and meanings of social intercourse-Montaigne, La Bruyre, Rochefoucault, are answerable for many a real heresy under the guise of truth. Lord Chesterfield, Horace Walpole, and Lady Montague, among the English, may be put in the same list. These people draw their disenchanting aphorisms from their own experience, and publish as universal truths the unholy results of their own selfish coldness. How different is the tone of a higher class of writers! With what straightforward simplicity and trustfulness do Bacon, and Milton, and old Fuller, and scores more, treat these things! It is a shallow philosophy which divorces tenderness and wisdom. There is no wisdom without love. 
               From whatever cause, presents, as we began to say, have almost lost their sweet significance, and become a meaner sort of merchandize. We see in them sometimes a vile variety of the bribe kind, daring to wear the stolen semblance of affection; or perhaps a cutting form of dismissal, as if one should say, 'Now I am clear of you!' Again, a present may be the most humiliating trick of unresentable insult, if one lack spirit and promptness to reject it; and it requires a good deal, so sacred is still the traditionary character of a gift. We speak not now of beneficence-giving with a direct view to utility or relief. We believe in such things; at least the novelists, who profess to depict real life, often show us people who have more than they need, giving generously to those who have less. There is something tangible in this-something appreciable by a bank-note world. But we are considering gifts of another kind: those which have a value not to be represented by money-a use which is not exactly utility. It is common to consider whatever is given, or appears to be given, as a present; but this is incorrect. That which is given because it is supposed to be expected-and how large a class of gifts comes under this head!-is nothing better than an offering at the shrine of pride and self-love. Anything bestowed with the hope of a larger gift in return, is plainly only a dishonest form of traffic, since the bargain, if offered in plain terms, would have been rejected indignantly. That which we give with the idea of repaying what has already been accepted as a present, is another desecration of the name. It is an insult, call it by what specious names we may. This is one of the modes which the rich sometimes employ to remind their humble friends of the difference between a full heart and a full purse. The distinction is more apt to be overlooked from the lower side than from the higher. 
               The essence of the present, properly so-called, consists in the sentiment of the thing; and as sentiment is out of date, no wonder presents have become obsolete. A birth-day or New-Year's gift-once the easiest, and pleasantest, and most intelligible thing in the world-must now be a costly article of bijouterie, whose worth can be reckoned in dollars. Christening cups and spoons-the invention of some kind old aunt or uncle-are given with grudging groans, because, being a thing of course, they do not redound to the giver's honour unless they are unusually rich and expensive. Even bridal gifts are bought with especial reference to the fact that they are to be exhibited, ticketed with the giver's name; and 'one does so hate to appear shabby!' The trousseau may be enriched by such contributions, but the heart is not. The exactions of eastern courts, the shawls, the horses, the jewelled arms, offered with outward smiles and secret curses, merit as well the name of 'presents.' 
               A habit of capricious and disproportionate giving, is sometimes the foible of rich and indolent people. A gorgeous ornament or article of vertu to one who has already more than enough; an elegant work to a gentleman who possesses an ample library, is complacently felt to be generosity; while a young friend who really needed a dress far less expensive, or a student to whom a similar amount in useful books might ensure success in life, would never be thought of. It may be said wealth seeks wealth by the law of sympathy. Perhaps it may be so; perhaps the rich know better what rich people want than what poor people need; yet a good, benevolent heart is a wonderful enlightener in this respect. 
               Some gifts ought to be prefaced with, 'Know all men by these presents, that I, A. B., am both rich and munificent,' if it were the fashion to be very candid. Cynical people sometimes sneer at birth-day or Christmas gifts in families where there is a common purse. 'As well,' say they, 'take money out of one pocket and put it in the other, and call it a gift.' But what a vulgar estimate is this! If the family purse be absolutely common, which few are-and it may be doubted whether any ought to be, since there ought always to be opportunity for individual self-denial for kind or benevolent purposes-a gift says, 'We want to give you something that you would not allow yourself. We desire for you a special gratification-a pleasant memento of this day, and of the love we bear you.' What can be more natural and proper? 
               So a sharp, coarse mother said to her little girl, who ran after papa to give him a rose she had plucked- 
               'Your father has just come out of the garden, if he had wanted a rose he could have picked one for himself.' The child was mortified-and what a lesson! 
               The 'two poor relations, all smiles and shirt-collar,' mentioned, (pathetically enough by virtue of Mr. Dickens's 'so wondrous art,' that can so intertwine tears and laughter, that we hardly know them apart), in the Pickwick Christmas party, no doubt received occasional 'presents' from the Wardles, their rich and good-natured relations. We do not however hear, nor are we led to suppose, that anything substantial was done to improve their condition by these people of benevolent-impulses. Even Mr. Dickens, in Depicting the ideal of bonhommie as it exists in ordinary society, omits this degree of generosity and good feeling, for he adheres too strictly to truth and observation to add what would seem to most people a quixotic trait to his worldly good character. Yet short of this, nothing would reach the right mark. The gifts which are usual in such cases do not generally come within our definition of presents. It must first be shown that there is no family pride in the matter. The discredit of having poor and shabby-looking relations has wrung many a gift from hands cold and reluctant enough; while the giver cherished a comfortable self-complacency, and the receiver was expected to be interpenetrated with gratitude for humiliating favours. 
               People are disappointed and quite indignant if presents do not buy affection, respect, deference, conformity, and other things that we all like. They do buy some of them, too often; but others are not to be bought with such mean exchanges. Even children are seldom attached by gifts. Their pleasure in the gift seldom refers to the giver. Love for love is the only barter, and we can all see, or feel, when presents mean love. The very look-the tone of voice-characterizes unmistakably the most magnificent and the humblest gift. The movement may be awkward-the eye averted-the voice constrained-yet the heart can shine through all this, and glorify and sanctify any offering. This is one of the cases, not mentioned in learned books, in which the angle of reflection corresponds sponds exactly with the angle of incidence. There are rich and haughty people who love to do their generous deeds with the air of one who throws a bone to a dog; there are poor and loving ones, who are princely and benignant in giving the merest trifle. Chesterfield says, 'One person will grant a request in such a manner as to make an enemy; another will refuse one so as to secure a friend,' and the remark applies equally well to the act of giving. 
               Gifts which are intended as pay for services rendered, in lien of regular and open compensation, are seldom satisfactory. This is easily accounted for. Perhaps the good office was intended to be entirely gratuitous, and, in that case, the offer of what seems payment wounds the sensibility, especially if the obliged person be rich and the other poor. Or the service may be one which has its regular price, and the gratuity, being less, disappoints, or being given as a gratuity, offends. At any rate, if it was intended as pay, in any shape or measure, we must not call it a present, or enjoy the idea of having made one. 
               A certain lady in the country once sent her friend a turkey, the earliest of the season. The gift was received as such things should be-frankly, heartily, cordially,-the recipient being of Charles Lamb's mind in these matters. 'There is something,' says Lamb, 'inexpressibly pleasant to me in these presents, be it fruit, fowl, or what not. If presents be not the soul of friendship, they are the most spiritual part of the body of that intercourse. There is too much narrowness of thinking on that point. The punctilio of acceptance, methinks, is too confined and straitlaced. I could be content to receive money, clothes, or a joint of meat, from a friend. Why should he not send me a dinner as well as a dessert? I would taste him in all the beasts of the field, and through all creation.' 
               But the next year, about turkey time, our turkey-donor made a visit to the obliged party, and observing at the head of the table a 'pretty poult,' she took occasion to remark-'Ah! I see YOUR turkeys come the earliest, this year!' in so particular a manner, that her hostess began to think back, and to compare and sift among certain obscure hints, not understood at the time, until she came at last to the conclusion that an early turkey was expected in pay for the present of the preceding year. But being of an independent turn, she did not send it, thinking with 'gentle Charles' again-'not that I have any thoughts of bartering or reciprocating those things. To send anything in return, would be to reflect suspicion of mercenariness on the offering. Let him overcome me in bounty. In such things a generous nature loves to be overcome.' We will not aver that the latter part of this quotation applies to the case in question. We only know that our friend declined traffic under the name of presents. Perhaps she had been put on her guard in her youth by the dealings between Helen and Lady Augusta, in the excellent story of Mademoiselle Panache, by Miss Edgeworth, to whom we owe so many life-hints. 
               Propitiatory presents are most melancholy. They are offered with secret scorn, grudging and self-contempt; they are accepted, if at all, with still more debasing consciousness. A poor widow that we wot of, in a small country village, had among her few treasures a fine litter of young pigs, which tormented her neighbours by getting into gardens in a surreptitious and unprincipled manner, as young pigs will-both biped and quadruped. This was, of course, a subject of much complaint, and no wonder, for it is provoking. But one neighbour in particular, the rich man of the place, was especially indignant, as 'those who have most to love have most to lose,' and threatened the widow with the terrors of the law. 'I will make you a present of one, when they are fat,' said the poor woman, acting upon her instincts. The rich neighbor said 'Pshaw!' but held his peace afterwards, and altered his fences a little. Whether he gathered from the offered bribe a nearer and more touching sense of the poor soul's helplessness, or whether he was softened by her pleading submission, we cannot say; but we are quite sure he did not accept the peace-offering in any tangible shape. 
               We should beware how we raise expectation by a pompous and important manner, which the value of what we are about to bestow will not warrant. 'I will give you,' said Hannah More's rich friend, after listening to her recital of a case of great pecuniary distress, 'I will give you-a new theme for a tragedy.' This story always seemed to us as if it must have been 'poefied' a little, until our own experience produced a pendant. It was but the other day that a person of high reputation as a philanthropist said to those deputed to ask his aid for a great public charity-and he accompanied the words with a most encouraging plunge into his ample pocket-'I will give you, ladies,-a piece of advice!' and this piece of advice-which was that we should always go to clergymen first, and get their names to induce others to give,-proved to be all he intended to contribute to our object. Yet he looked, as we took our leave, full of the most enviable self-complacency, buoyed up, perhaps, by the sense of having 'given' something. 
               These instances bring to mind the old fable of the priest who, after refusing to the piteous prayers of his poor parishioner the smallest piece of money, offered, instead, his blessing. 'Thank you for nothing,' was the reply; 'I perceive that if your blessing had been worth a half-penny, I should not have got it!' 
               Dr. Franklin, in his youth, gave half of all he had in the world to the steward of the vessel that brought him to Philadelphia, not for services rendered, but through pride. This giving lest we should be suspected of poverty, is no uncommon foible. The rich take the liberty of giving as little as they choose. They can afford to be thought poor. What are called in England vails-the irregular yet inevitable perquisites to servants-are scarcely ever given freely, or with any sense of justice or propriety. If the servant feels gratitude for the largest donation of this kind, it is that species of gratitude which has been defined to be a 'lively sense of future favours,' and this is a due return for what is given in such a spirit. When a domestic has been able to perform for us any service over and above the proper duties of his place, what we give him in return is payment, and however liberal in amount, we must not imagine that we have made a 'present.' 
               But O! the sweetness of a real 'present!' What wealth of love may be enwrapped in it-what mystic meaning-what vows of truth-what rich memories of the past-what promise of the future! What a glory envelops the simplest object the moment it takes that sacred character! The magic art that turns a cottage into a palace is no more potent! The heart leaps up to meet it; the eyes-but whither are we running, and what are we thinking of! Let us be sober again. 
               The old word 'keepsake' is a most expressive term-genuine Saxon, and untranslatable. The French substitutes-souvenir, gage, etc.,-are worth nothing in comparison. The book that has been used and marked-the ring we have seen worn-the 'bent sixpence' of rustic lovers-the precious curl or braid set in simple guise-these, and a thousand other trifles that the ingenuity of affection easily devises when it would convey by some little token a notice of the stores within-have a value to be measured only by the wealth of the soul. We have seen a little hymn-book, sent to a bereaved mother in the first agony of her grief, with hymns of peculiar consolation pointed out, received and treasured with a sensibility that showed how good a judge the giver was of the true nature of a 'present.' Not that we would be understood to limit the name of present to articles of small intrinsic value. We are only protesting against the vulgar error that cost constitutes the value of such things. There is a feeling that consecrates the gift of an estate to a friend-and a perfect sympathy and confidence that would make it proper and natural to accept such a gift. We pity those who deny this: they are of those who hold to the motto, 'Live with your friend as if he might one day be your enemy.' Horrible profanation! Let us not deny to the wealthy the highest pleasure of large possessions-the power of giving freely to those they love, for the simple gratification of doing so, without further thought or object. All we must insist on is that the cost of a present can in no wise enter into any just computation of its value to a friend. 
               Gifts sometimes convey the subtlest compliments; we mean in the choice of them. Delicate propriety of adaptation is indeed rare, for the inspiration is apt to come to us after it is too late. Sometimes the occasion furnishes the inspiration, not only to give but what to give. This is happy; but how melancholy are the perplexities we hear of, especially at Christmas and New Year times, unhappily too often times of traffic. 'I don't know what in the world to get for--and--and--." 'Why then give them anything?' 'O they always make me a present and will expect something!' 
               Some people are so conscientious, that in giving even Christmas gifts to servants or inferiors they feel bound to choose something useful. O what a will-o'-the-wisp is that word 'useful' to conscientious people! Why must a calico gown or half-a-dozen stout pocket-handkerchiefs be alone 'useful' to a poor girl? Has she no imagination-no taste-no heart-no pride-no affections? When she sees every other present in the house chosen with some reference to these, must hers alone convey a hard hint of her condition? Such unintentional insults are the mere flowering-out of our secret, habitual thoughts. When the root is purified, the blossom and fruit will be different. 
               Gifts of benevolence or duty are most excellent. They are offerings to God, and imply sacrifice and include utility. But a present must be wholly pleasurable-voluntary-heartful-free-impulsive-without earthly alloy on either side. Chesterfield recommends 'something small, durable, and coming often in use,' so as to keep your image fresh with your friend; and the remark, like many of his, is shrewd and good, though he perverts every thing to selfish purposes. Something so closely associated with a dear friend's individuality as to recall him inevitably, is a treasure during absence; but this end is accomplished oftentimes by the chair he has used, the picture he has admired, the books he has read from. What he gives is no more necessarily precious, unless it is something characteristic of him, and carrying a special significance. A shrub or vine will sometimes possess almost the power of a portrait in recalling the image of one far distant. The dim resemblance between animal and vegetable life has given rise to a poetical superstition which twines the two threads together, and makes us feel while the tree or flower lives and thrives, the absent giver and his friendship are in health and safety. But we should not like to trust aught so precious to the chances of sun and shower. We will not take plants, even perennial ones, as the magic symbols of love too strong for death. As well try the rustic charm of the dandelion, blowing away the winged seeds, with the spell 'He loves me, he loves me not!' weeping if the fates make a mistake in the last word. Yet plants are sweet parting presents. There are hearts to whom the tree of Aboul-Casem, whose leaves were emeralds, and its fruit rubies, would be valueless in comparison. 
               But if the philosophy of giving require study, no less does the art of receiving merit attention, and demand qualifications that are far from being possessed by every one. We are not sure that it does not call for a warmer estimate of friendship-a higher tone of generosity-a more thorough abrogation of selfish pride-to accept than to confer a present of any considerable intrinsic value. When we object to receiving it because of its value, it is evident at once that the outer has overpowered the inner life of the gift, in our estimation; we offer an affront to the friendship, the sincerity, or the judgment of the giver; and we confess that our own pride is stronger than our affection or our confidence. There is an immense amount of unsuspected meanness practised in this matter. We have no right to give, until we have learned to receive. Arrogance and distrust often form the real animus of a pretended delicacy. 
               Dymond says, 'Shall I accept a present of a hundred pounds from a man who does not pay his debts?' 
               We answer, Do not have such a man for a friend. 
               The world-that blind, blundering Cyclops-is very apt to sneer at those who accept readily, though every day shows us that such usually give as freely in their turn. Some accept readily for the very reason that pecuniary value is, in itself, as nothing in their eyes; and others are ever on their guard against the slightest indebtedness, because they over-appreciate cost. Money and money's worth being their supreme good, they secretly believe it must be the same with others; and they are proportionably shy of laying themselves under that kind of 'obligation'-(obligation between friends!) Mean people are often very proud, and their pride tries to conceal their meanness; such may, for good and sufficient reasons, see fit to confer an obligation or make what they call a present; but they are incapable of accepting either with a true, free heart. In such cases their pride betrays their meanness. Only generous and confiding people know how to accept. 
               But this subject overflows our measure. 
             
             
                
               (Not a Ludicrous Design.) 
               FASHIONABLE AND UNFASHIONABLE. 
               YOUNG girls are the most charming creatures in the world- 
               But- 
               They are sometimes very naughty. 
               These propositions we set out with, as they used of old to put outside the gates a placard of defiance to all passers-by, when a tournament was in question. Not that we mean any attempt to satisfy the celebrated mathematician who asked, of a song or a poem, or some such butterfly matter, 'What does it prove?' But only that we like to have a point-d'appui for our wandering thoughts. 
               We like our theme all the better because it involves a heresy, since it awakens one's energies to be in the minority. Faults in young ladies! What volumes could be quoted against us, if all literature were sifted for assertions of their 'angelic' nature! All very true, but even angelic robes get a little torn sometimes, in life's thorny ways. Vanity, for instance, is a great, sharp, thorn-a whole hedge of thorns-a Mexican chapparal, indeed, through which these same charming creatures have to pass with their angelic garments; Love is a wilderness, in which, though so many thousand feet have trodden it, no certain path is yet discernible; Pleasure spreads her silver nets-innocent-looking as the dewy films that 'the genial ray of morning gilds'-over sad pit-falls. 
               But whither are we soaring? It is bad policy to grow poetical so early, for the vein may not hold out. Besides, we did not mean to be poetical at all, but commonplace; and commonplace is very fire-damp to poetry, Peter Bell to the contrary notwithstanding. 
               Our heroine was just a pretty little country-girl, the belle of a Western village of the most primitive character. She had few lights beside the natural ones, for every body about her was occupied in the fundamental and absorbing business of getting a living, and had time for few speculations of a purely intellectual or moral character. A succession of travelling ministers, of all creeds, flashed light of various tinges on the duties of life, as the magic lantern shows its phantasmagoria; always by the same steady lamp, yet producing strange delusions sometimes, through obscurities and bewitchments of medium. So our damosel grew up, to womanhood, almost; tall and natural as a mullein stalk, and a good deal prettier; with as slender training as might be, though her ambitious little heart was always longing for a half-year's polishing at a certain celebrated boarding-school not a thousand miles off, which was reputed to turn young women into young ladies at the shortest possible notice. 
               'Only six months, mother,' said she. 
               'And what good would six months do ye, child?" the hardworking, housewifely dame replied. 'Larn you to despise your poor old father and mother, and your brothers, and the neighbours, and Jeremiah-' 
               Susan was overflowing with protestations that these shocking things could never happen, till her mother reached the uneuphonious name with which her prognostics concluded, at which the rural belle turned up her little nose very unmistakably. 
               'Jeremiah!' said she. 
               'Jeremiah is a good boy,' said Mrs. Plummer, 'better than some high-flown folks.' 
               This silenced Susan for the time, for she knew very well that it had slant reference to a certain pert young lawyer from B-- the very village in which the celebrated boarding-school was seated. Susan had an aunt and cousins in this village, and it was under their auspices that her sober wishes had 'learned to stray.' When combustible materials are collected, it takes but a spark to set them alight-the spark of a bonfire, sometimes-in this case supplied by a certain Mr. Docket, the young lawyer aforesaid, kindled by the reputation of Susan's father as a 'fore-handed man.' A tolerable face, a very blue coat with shining buttons, and an unusual share of that kind of modest assurance which young lawyers who go about the country 'pettifogging' are apt to acquire, had quite dazzled poor Susan during a late visit to her aunt; and there was nothing she so much desired as to have some opportunity of acquiring the knowing (i. e. self-satisfied) air and manner of her friends at B--, so that she might be rid of the painful shyness that oppressed her in their company. 
               Shall we blame Susan for this? Shall we at once conclude that to admire the more polished manners of the villagers, and contrast them with those of her home-friends much to the disadvantage of the latter, bespoke a hard heart or an empty head? 
               Napoleon said-'Imagination rules the world'; and those of us who have ever been young know that this is true of the youthful world at least. In the partial and illusive view that the young necessarily take of life, what wonder that taste should often lord it over affection-the showy throw the valuable into the shade? 
               The Plummers were homely people-there was no denying it. Utility was their sole care, and to have made a sacrifice to the beautiful would have seemed to them like homage to a false god. When Susan bought a new dress, it must be a dark one, to save washing; and in choosing between two bonnets, not which was most becoming, but which would wear longest and bear cleaning oftenest, was the question. Now after a young girl's taste has once been awakened, this state of things is a sort of torture to her-on a small scale, indeed, but in the aggregate irritating and even detrimental. The real saving of cost or trouble is so small in comparison to the sacrifice and the mortification, that even a sense of injustice mingles with the poor girl's annoyance. It is true parents may plead principle; but after all, children have their rights too, and one of the most precious of those is some gratification of the natural love of beauty. 
               One of the eras in a young woman's life is the first going among people quite different from those at home. What an anointing of the eyes it is, sometimes; and often sad enough, for duty and affection try to smother all comparisons unfavourable to the loved ones, as sacrilegious. Are the new friends beautiful? Ah, but those at home are so good! Are they polished or fashionable? Our dear ones have no pride! Is there a captivating elegance or state in the grander household? How much more case and comfort where no form is! So we say, and try to be satisfied with thinking, but nature is too strong for us, and we feel, after all, that goodness may just as well be graceful as not, and that in so far as she is not, she does herself injustice, and contradicts our instincts. Susan did not know, until she went from home, that her father was a hard-looking, grim farmer, without manners; that her dear mother was a huge mountain of a woman, unlike everybody else in outward appearance, as she was in an extra share of goodness and tender heart; that her brothers were mere louts, compared with the more shapen cubs of the great village; that her home was so much a scene of mere work-a dream of milk-pans, scrubbing and spinning-that all ornament or pastime in it was considered an unpardonable sin. She had felt, indeed, the grinding of this state of things, but without full consciousness of the cause. But once enlightened, she longed, naturally enough, to expatiate in a more flowery region; and this, on the occasion of an unusually good crop and an excellent summer's spinning, her kind mother at last consented to, not without many cautions against the town-influences which her experience taught her to anticipate and her wisdom to dread. 
               But we must not forget 'Jeremiah'-a good youth of the neighbours, who had suffered almost as much as the rest of the home matters by Susan's visit to B--. We cannot honestly say he was handsome, according to any young lady's estimate; yet nature had done very well by him, giving him a face that inspired confidence-a look of good sense and good humour and calmness, that very young ladies do not always prize as they should. Not that Susan was insensible to his claims to attention, either. They had been brought up within a farm or two of each other, and in the course of time had come to very familiar terms, since now and then a country merry-making or funeral brings young and old together in holiday trim, which is favourable to the discovery of good qualities and pleasant sympathies. 
               What a commentary it affords on the general estimate of life, that we consider our fellow-creatures as being in a more 'natural' state when in their ordinary, working dress, than at those more poetical seasons when thoughts of beauty and pleasure are uppermost, and the outward is by an inevitable instinct brought into something like harmony with the inward! What an insult is it to Providence to fancy that a life of sordid care fulfils its intention and our duty! 
                      
                        Rejoice forever, nature cries, Rejoice! 
                        And drinks to man-in her nectareous cup, 
                        Mixed up of delicates for every sense,- 
                        To the great Founder of the bounteous feast; 
                        Drinks glory, gratitude, eternal praise! 
                        And he that will not pledge her is a churl. 
                     
                   Alas! many are churls then, through mere good intention. 
                      
                        'Tis a strange kind of curst necessity 
                        Brings down the sterling temper of the soul 
                        By base alloy, to bear the current stamp 
                        Below called wisdom-- 
                     
                  
                
               But we are running away from Jeremiah, as Susan did sometimes. He was an excellent fellow, with one of those faithful, loving hearts that thoughtless girls are apt to undervalue; and he was in all respects such an unexceptionable match for Susan, that it is hardly to be wondered at that she felt a distaste to him, since gay seventeen is apt to like love high-spiced with difficulty or contrast. Romance was out of the question, for Jeremiah had a good farm of his own; his parents wished him to marry; Susan's parents were on the best possible terms with him, and Susan herself had more than a spark of love for him smouldering in the corner of her little foolish heart, often making a smoke through which she saw him at disadvantage, but lacking some favouring breeze to fan it into flame. Jeremiah's patience under her not infrequent impertinences, showed that the affinities were pretty strong; but in no case could he be betrayed into playing the sighing lover, or humbling himself in any way before his capricious mistress, though she did try her power over him a little, sometimes, with innate coquetry, not unknown in the woods. He was, however, not so prematurely wise as to be quite willing to see Susan depart for B--, where he knew the influences would be all adverse to his wishes; but he kept his doubts and fears to himself, and since it must be, consoled himself by the thought that if she stood the trial his chance would be better than ever; while if she did not-why then he hoped he should not care! 
               But why all this ado about a country girl's going to boarding-school? 
               As long as human hearts and souls are precious, it must be a critical and anxious moment that launches a young creature upon a new element. Even the bird, with only instinct for foresight, hesitates and moans before she pushes her fledgling from the nest. So did good Mrs. Plummer, whose strong natural sense taught her to feel that 
                     A little knowledge is a dangerous thing,
                   and who desired no doubtful polish for her fair Susan. 
               'Don't be too quick a makin' friendships,' she said at parting; 'it's hard to know a mushroom from a toadstool.' 
               'I expect we'll want a fishing-rod to touch you with, when you come back, 'said Mr. Plummer. 
               'Good bye, Susan!' said Jeremiah, a rather faint smile flitting over his cheek as he shook hands with his way ward neighbour; 'I hope you won't learn much!' 
               Susan, between smiles and tears, gave little answer to these several ral adieus; and drove off with a very tender sense of the value of those she left behind. 
               A half-year soon passes, even when we are separated from those we love. 
               'We're a goin' to have a little bit of a tea-drinking, 'said Mrs. Plummer, as we were watering and pruning our roses one morning after breakfast. 'We're goin' to have a little bit of a tea-drinking; a kind of a party like;' and she took up the corner of her apron, and looked quite bashful. 
               Mrs. Plummer, as we have hinted, weighed some two hundred and fifty pounds, avoirdupois, and was the mother of something less than half a score of stout sons-so she was often irreverently called Mother Plummer, but she did not mind that. 
               'We shall like to have you happen in,' continued the good woman, coughing a little, to appear unconcerned, and as if a party was a thing of every day occurrence. 
               'When is it to be?' 
               'Oh! to-morrow, at one o'clock.' 
               'At one o'clock! Ah! a quilting.' 
               'No. Nothing but just a visit. You see our Susan is a coming home. She's been away all winter with her aunt Amy, and now she's comin' home, and her cousins are to come with her, so I thought as she's been livin' with fore-handed folks, and they're to see her home, I couldn't do less than to have things a little smart like.' 
               The Plummers lived in a new framed house on the top of a hill, where not a tree was left to 'look like the woods'-the perfection of civilized elegance to a western settler, who considers trees as his natural enemies. There it stood; its unpainted sides cracking in the sun; its door steps made of two logs, (a temporary arrangement ment which lasted several years;) a 'pair of bars' instead of a front gate, and two rows of sunflowers planted for an avenue to the entrance door. The only attempt at outward ornament was a shelf of bright milk-pans and a well-scoured churn, if we except certain boards on which some wild fruits were spread for drying, which always stood just in the way as one was about to enter the house. Chickens had the run of the door-yard, and the family linen was often displayed on lines which interfered not a little with the avenue of sunflowers and the convenience of visitors. 
               The house had a multitude of windows, which were adorned with paper curtains, though the best room had white ones, with netting and fringe half a yard deep. So much for the outer aspect of the Plummer mansion. Within, cleanliness was almost the only beauty. Mother Plummer was an incessant scrubber, and left neither paint nor varnish on anything, in her zeal. Even the books, of which there was a shelf full in the parlour, were always wiped with a wet cloth when the room was cleaned, for the good woman said she did not see why a book must be left dirty any more than anything else. The floor was partially covered with a rag carpet; and the best bed, with volumes of white drapery about it, stood in one corner. Two or three small bedrooms opening out of this, and the large kitchen in which the family usually lived, completed the possibilities. Mother Plummer went all around the village giving her invitations, and offering inducements to the old and the young, the sick and the bashful, to grace her feast of return. To one she would mention roast pig; to another, some pretty girl; to the ambitious, the lawyer's lady from B-- to the humble, old Mrs. Green, who had been supported by the town for several years. She had an instinct of hospitality, and smoothed all difficulties as she went, until she had promises or half promises from a company as various as the articles in a pedlar's basket. 
               It is one of the strange things of this world-at least of this country of ours, to answer for nothing beyond-that the first impulse always seems to be to reject instead of accepting an invitation. We speak not now of grand, town affairs, which are carried on with an open and unblushing heartlessness, and as a mere matter of barter, and which require so much expense of time and money, that one may well hesitate; but of those country gatherings, where there is at least an appearance of cordiality; where the professed object is to give pleasure. An invitation is considered theoretically as a favour. Yet the moment it comes, we put on the airs of the courted party, and show reluctance, and a disposition to make excuses for staying away! 'One must sow invitations broadcast here,' said a western friend to us once, walking round nearly empty rooms, after preparations had been made for a large party, 'in order to get any one. Our people seem to think it the greatest possible favour to come.' This feeling is doubtless in part owing to the emulation in dress which prevails in all circles, from the highest to the lowest. If people could come together for social enjoyment, without so much trouble, they would be more ready to seek society. Would it not be a good plan to adopt a certain gala dress, which should be deemed suitable and genteel until it was worn out; then people would have time to think of something else when they went to parties. 
               The Hungarian ladies, who, on ordinary occasions, dress like the rest of the world, in the French taste, have for visits of ceremony a national costume, which is never departed from in the best society. It consists of a rich silk, so rich that it descends from mother to daughter as an heir-loom: a bodice-waist of black velvet richly ornamented; a veil wrought with gold or silver, and the hair in long braids in the oriental style. These main features being uniform, there is ample room left for variety in the colours and textures adopted; and the addition of jewels of value, not thrown aside on account of any change of mode, but cherished the rather, because of their rich and quaint antiquity, completes an attire, at once splendid and picturesque, which since it excuses all the time spent in devising, and all the money wasted in changing our array-a labour and cost 'never-ending still beginning,' and which we are always complaining of-we might surely take some hints from. If we could adopt a national costume, it might be the forerunner of national cultivation, since it would at least help us to some moments of leisure; for if the hurry and absorption so complained of by our gentlemen be the result of that mad chase after fortune which we dignify by the name of 'business,' the equally uncomfortable lack of leisure often lamented over by our ladies, and adduced as a reason for 'no time for reading,' is in a no less degree occasioned by unreasonable attention to dress, for ever flitting, whirling, merging and re-appearing, in as many forms as the images in dissolving views. 
               Some may think that in order to have something characteristic in our national dress, we ought in consistency to adopt nothing but the hideous Bloomer, so much talked-of lately-the emblem of unflinching utilitarianism; but as we are proposing the change as an advance towards civilization, we protest against a costume which in its very principles goes back to barbarism,-to that state 
                     'When wild in woods the noble savage ran,'
                   and thought of nothing but the first necessities of life. Female dress in which grace is sacrificed, is but wilful disguise; and though many a blunder in French fashion has equally set at naught this truth, let us at least avoid any plan which does so on principle. Better French fashions than Bloomerism, but better far than either a costume which shall unite grace, beauty, and permanence, and while gratifying the eye, the taste, and the pride so natural to us, shall yet afford leisure and money for higher satisfactions. 
               Another cause of the reluctance with which we accept invitations, is undoubtedly the sad truth that there is so little amusement included in the very plan of most of our parties. Take away the supper and the criticisms upon dress and appearance, and what is left? Sometimes a little show-music on the piano, and some quasi Italian singing, but often not even this; and this is at best a poor substitute for the really pleasing and harmonizing effect of true heart-music, in which the singer takes pleasure for its own sake, and expects to communicate the same agreeable feeling to others. Old-fashioned games are voted 'ungenteel,' of course, for we have many Miss Primroses among us, who learn to despise simple amusements before they have fitted themselves for anything more refined. Cards are so loudly denounced by the good, that even a round game with its innocent accompaniment of pretty pearl counters, (instead of 'rascal counters,') is proscribed, unless we would class ourselves with the irreligious. And of late even dancing, one of nature's most harmless impulses, is placed under ban; so that that innocent resource, an impromptu cotillion after the piano, must be defended by arguments, and will be stigmatized for reasons, worthy of the doctors of the Sorbonne. 
               What then remains? Social gatherings there will be, until people become blind, deaf, and dumb, under the power of arbitrary rules. What shall be their amusements? What they are is soon told. The exhibition of dresses, often far beyond the wearer's means; the criticism of other dresses supposed to be below the means of their wearers, or behind the latest fashion; eating and drinking beyond the bounds of prudence, and that with the most unthankful hearts; and sotto voce remarks on character, and telling anecdotes of the present company, and their ancestors if they have had any. These make up the sum of most of our parties in the way of amusements; and nobody complains of the dullness of these occasions more loudly than the sufferers, each in his turn ready to bring together just such a company with just such results! 
               We remember being much amused, in our days of graceless youth, at the expense of a worthy maiden, who had for many years presided over a young ladies' school in a country village. She was about to have a large party, the invitations for which included the whole neighbourhood-a peculiarly incongruous one. She went round, like Mrs. Plummer, giving her invitations in person, and setting forth all the attractions she could master, lest the well-known disinclination to take the trouble of going to parties, should be too much for her popularity. 'We shall have the electrical machine,' she said, 'and it will be very funny to give slight shocks to all the young people that never saw one; and we will play with the Historical Cards, and redeem pawns by putting delinquents in the stocks; and Mr. F--, our lecturer, can introduce something into the candles that will make them all go out in a moment; and then, after supper, I shall make them burn their fingers scientifically, by heating a sheet of foolscap paper before the fire, and then persuading them to rub it over quickly, so that the accumulation of heart, you know--.' Poor Miss H--! We laughed both in and out of our sleeve, but we repeat. Even her savage amusements would be preferable to the utter inanity of a fashionable party. For our part, we would have either no parties, or some mode of innocent and rational amusement found for them. In their present aspect they always include odious anomalies, and are becoming less and less agreeable. But we digress. 
               Good Mrs. Plummer, contemplating nothing of this kind-meaning that young and old should amuse themselves in the way they liked best-full of benevolence and tender sympathy, and disposed literally to fulfil the injunction, 'When thou makest a feast, call not thy kinsmen and thy rich neighbours, but the poor, the maimed, the lame, and the blind,' saw no threatening demon of dulness hovering over her as she threaded her cheerful way about the little cluster of houses that we call the village, and stopped at every door but that of poor John Lynde, who had just lost his wife. She only thought in her heart, as she saw him at work in his field, with his youngest boy following him because there was no mother at home, that she would send a lot of nice things for the poor children after the party was over. Dear Mother Plummer! If any body dares to draw, even in his thought, a caricature of her rotundity as she moved along, in a blue calico dress rather short for her, and a bonnet which could be praised only as shading her face, we should be very angry with him. 
               Oh, reader! was it ever thy lot to give a party in the country? If so, a hint of Mrs. Plummer's toils will be sufficient; if not, an elaborate description would be of no avail. A corporation dinner, omitting the soup-a dish of no repute in the country-would give a better idea of a country tea-table on the occasion, than the delicate variety that characterizes the mid-night refreshment of a runion comme il faut.
                
               But then mere matter-of-fact people would say, 'What do you want of refreshments in the middle of the night, when honest folks ought to be a-bed?' 
                
               When we have answered this query satisfactorily, we can with a better face ridicule the hearty and most generous provision made for a set of stout, hungry, young and old people, set before them at an hour earlier than that of a fashionable dinner. It is, in fact, a dinner under another name; and we submit whether it is more foolish to call a full feast 'tea,' than to set out a most elaborate table with plenty of wine, at six in the afternoon, and call it a 'breakfast.' We shall defer our research into the particulars of the entertainment until it is placed on the table. Meanwhile a word of Susan, the heroine of the fte. 
               She was a fine buoyant girl, tall and slender like her father, but partaking largely of all the depth of love and kindness that made up her mother's character. She was not deficient in natural ability, but had received little training at her Aunt Amy's besides the more showy accomplishments of the village school. Such as she was, however, she had several admirers, one of whom occupied her attention above the rest, and very much to the disadvantage of the faithful swain with the old-fashioned name already mentioned. 
               Now, as our friend Jeremiah was indebted more to Nature than to Art for whatever he had that was attractive, so the B-- beau, a smart, conceited, young lawyer, had to thank the polish of a bustling village for his fascinations, so potent with the fresh damsels who came to school at B--. He was deeply devoted to our Susan, although he would hardly have ventured to declare her his first, last, and only love, since he had experienced decided palpitations in favour of a succession of the 'large girls' at Mrs. Pangloss's seminary. He made earnest love to Susan after the fashion approved in such cases, viz., contriving to meet her in her daily walks, putting mysteriously addressed verses into the corner of the country newspaper, 'To her who will understand them;' 'To a young lady on her saying that the writer was not serious,' etc., and planning rides and pic-nics for her pleasure, besides blowing the flute under her window even in very unpleasant weather. Tall, comely, and well-dressed, no wonder Mr. Docket always had several young ladies desperately in love with him, watching to see him pass, and telling of a bow received from him in the street, as if it were a personal favour or a special Providence. 
               The important day arrived. The sun rose a little hazy and dissipated-looking, but a smart shower served as soda-water, and he soon came forth refreshed and cloudless. The trees, grass, and sunflowers, new-washed and shining, corresponded with the scoured cleanliness within doors. Who has not felt the influence of weather in a festivity? The feeling we have of Nature's sympathy in joy or sorrow, is a curious one: it is hard to say whether it partakes most of egotism, or of love and confidence in the great mother. Amid all her preparations, Mrs. Plummer's heart never misgave her for a moment about the weather. She knew it would be pleasant! and so it was. 
               No great amount of meretricious ornament had been relied on to give eclt to the fte. Green boughs were arranged here and there, wherever they could be persuaded to stay; flowers filled all the pitchers that could be spared; and flowers make festivity--(so much so, that for our own private taste we would never associate them with death, however lovely.) 
               Peacocks' feathers formed a splendid crown above the only looking-glass, tilted condescendingly from its height on the white-washed wall. Temporary seats had been formed, the rough material of which was carefully hidden by calico spreads and curtains. The whole upper story, if we may say whole of what was altogether but a half story, was prepared for the use of the guests; for it was well understood that many, coming from a considerable distance, would expect to perform a large part of the toilet exercise on the spot, since wagon travelling is notedly bad for curls and frills. In the midst of all walked Mrs. Plummer, crimson and anxious, contemplating the arrangements, and giving extra and final directions, just as we all do on these solemn occasions. How or where the host of boys, and Father Plummer, and old Grandmother, and the hired girl, and Miss Polly Green, that come over to help, and Mrs. Plummer herself, managed to dress, is beyond the guessing power of the historian. Dressed they certainly were, and, some of them at least, smelling of brown soap. (Dean Swift advises servants always to leave whiting in the crevices of the silver, that the master may know it has been cleaned.) Long before the appointed hour, the company began to arrive. Load after load came buzzing or giggling up the sunflower avenue, darted up stairs as if ashamed, and filled the upper rooms to creaking. Old Mrs. Corning, 'in mouths of wisest censure' said to be more than a century old, was helped up the log door-step by Mrs. Plummer herself, and placed carefully in the great chair in the corner; one of the boys was planted as watch and ward over the old lady, with promise of many nice things if he would wait on her carefully, and see that nobody brushed against her, or kicked away her footstool. Sunday other old ladies were seated with due care; for Mrs. Plummer was an old-fashioned body, and had the most sacred respect for age, and above all, for decrepid age. Every body shared her attention, good will lending wings to her over weighty person, and supplying the lack of youthful lightness of step. She was in her element, for her heart was one of those which dilate with pleasure at bestowing. She would have found an appropriate place among the women whose province it was to 'serves tables' in the Apostles' time, especially cially if the clients were widows and orphans. We must not, however, dwell too long on these particulars. We have said thus much about Mrs. Plummer, because our story has some reference to this out-flowing goodness of hers-a quality which really made her at times seem somewhat coarse, because she did not guard against appearances. It is a strange result of our half-civilization, that traits and doings on which the angels look down with sympathy and delight, should often be condemned by human fashions as vulgar. 
               Behold the company assembled-fluttering, whispering, tittering, flying out and in, stealing up for a final pin or comb; the young men congregating outside the front door; the old ladies making various excuses to peep into the mysterious receptacles in which were bestowed the festive materials. All was well but one thing-the thing! Susan did not come! The notion of supping at midnight had not, as we have hinted, ever dawned upon these remote regions. When much is to be done, it is a business-like maxim to set about it early, and these matter-of-fact people see no reason why feasting should not be conducted on principles which have been found sound in other affairs of moment. Everything at this welcome-party of Mrs. Plummer had been calculated for the moment of four o'clock; but somehow, reckoning upon Susan's knowledge of home-habits, the good lady had omitted to make any regular appointment with her daughter; while, at the same time, she had given her no inkling of an unusual effort on the occasion, though she had hinted that she thought of having a few of the neighbours together. She intended it for 'a kind of surprise like.' 
               This was only another proof of Mrs. Plummer's newness; for the keen world has long ago discovered that surprises are seldom agreeable, and voted them vulgar accordingly. But the main point is, Susan and her party failed to arrive at the proper time. It was impossible to put back the oven more than half an hour, without utter destruction to the loads of good things which were steaming within it; and at half-past four the word was given to 'dish.' Soon after-at least as soon as could be expected-the company were ushered into the refreshment hall-a place not so cool or so quiet in its appointments as some 'marble halls' that young ladies dream of, but furnished with the essentials of the most elegant dining-room-a well-filled table and the requisite number of seats. 
               We half promised to give an idea of the feast, but might better refer the reader to sundry old Dutch and Flemish paintings, or to Mr. Beckford's accounts of the groaning tables of Alcobaca. We will not forget, however, that there was a roast pig in the middle; an immense wild turkey looming brownly from either extremity; a huge chicken-pie, much ornamented in the natural history line; grouse in abundance; redolent puddings and flaky pies; quivering custards and shining sweet-meats, not to mention cake, pickles (huge ones), cheese, hot biscuits, dough-nuts; but our breath fails. Tea and coffee were the only stimulants, and these were served assiduously by the lady of the house and her friend, Miss Polly Green, the numerous boys acting as waiters. There was a regular transportation line established between the table and old Mrs. Corning's chair in the corner; for both Mr. and Mrs. Plummer insisted upon sending her some of everything. Whether the old lady disposed of all, the boys know better than we. But she had a country appetite we do not doubt, or she would not have lived out her century. The pleasure of distributing had made Mrs. Plummer almost forget her disappointment. Her round face glowed and radiated as she heaped one and another plate, and the board began to give good evidence of her hospitable assiduity, when the carriage from B-- drove up, and, a minute after, Susan entered, followed by several of her village friends. 
               If there be a time unfavourable to the advent of new guests, it is when the neatness and order which gives a kind of delicacy to the appearance of large quantities of food, have disappeared before the 'sacred rage' of hunger; and when, in the enjoyment of the good the gods provide, the company have somewhat thrown off the company air, and allowed themselves to assume a feeding look, in place of that guarded indifference which the tact of all circles prescribes as the more graceful. At the first onset, Susan Plummer, in fine spirits, and followed by several companions as gay as herself, was evidently shocked and annoyed by the aspect of things; and shrinking back, she withdrew to the 'keeping room' with her companions, saying, that as the table was full they would wait awhile. But this was not to be thought of. Every body rose. A general clatter and shoving took place; dishes were removed-not without some spilling and other awkward accidents; and, at length, a space was secured, in which the new comers sat down, while some of the more industrious feasters took themselves off, declaring that they had furnished. Occasions like this test good breeding. Of course there are tables where all would have been accomplished without a moment's chill on the flow of enjoyment; but among the simple and literal this could not be. The whole affair had a broken-up air. Talk either died away or went on in whispers; while Susan felt bound to give her attention to her new friends, who were totally unacquainted with most of the company. 
               Poor dear Mrs. Plummer! 
                
               The supper table had to be cleared before the dancing could begin, and this was a work of time. Meanwhile Susan and her party were talking and laughing in a way that made some of the rustic guests feel a little uncomfortable. Susan was too right-minded to join heartily in disparaging or contemptuous remarks upon her worthy neighbours, but perhaps it would have been expecting too much of a gay young girl just from a village school, to look for a decided repression of such a disposition in her companions. The tone of their conversation was such, as while she could not approve it, she still sympathized in too much to refrain from partaking in some degree. In short, though difficult to describe without too much circumlocution, we all know that it is possible to ridicule people before their faces, and to make them sensible that we are doing so, without saying a single sentence which on being repeated would seem reprehensible. And it is an instinct with people of limited minds and narrow experience to prove their fancied superiority in this way. The dancing gave new scope to this inclination, being characterized rather by industry and earnestness than grace, and here Susan, exhilirated by her own share in the amusement, and carried away by the example of her gay companions, forgot her conscientious reserve and the duties of her position, so far as to make her own share in the rudeness of the would-be fashionables quite too conspicuous. Her mother found an opportunity to caution her once or twice, and her father cast at her and her friends some looks stern enough to have sobered them all at any other time. But without avail. The sport was too good. Perhaps some of our young readers may recollect circumstances somewhat similar. It is not uncommon to give in excuse for this sort of amusement, 'I could not possibly help it;' yet the sport is always regulated by its apparent safety. We do not ridicule the powerful, or those from whom we hope anything. The weakness of the aggrieved, their ignorance-their unconsciousness-which ought to be their protection, is an encouragement. If there be any fear of retaliation, we are very careful to be able to conceal our sense of the ridiculous. 
               Susan's temptation in this case is easily conceived. Here were gay friends whose pseudo-refinement had much impressed her, contrasted as it was with the utter homeliness of those among whom she had always lived; and after having felt herself belonging to the polite for a while, she now found herself in the false and perplexing position of being claimed by two opposite parties, both of whom were present. To side with the highest and strongest was the instinct of youthful ambition, and the high spirits caused by getting among the old familiar faces and haunts again, gave her a sort of audacity foreign to her nature at other times. 
               The plain people at home, on the other hand, sensitive as all plain people are in the presence of those they suppose higher bred than themselves, were all alive to the conduct of the 'grandees' from B--. Really good-breeding would have satisfied them, and put them at their ease, for it is always considerate and kind, and finds nothing too low for its care. But the mere outside imitation of it which was all Susan's new friends possessed, fell wholly short of the occasion, and was only intent on vindicating its own doubtful claims, at any expense of other people's feelings; and poor Susan, too weak to stem the current, was led on to partake its hue far more than she ought. As to the material used on the occasion, it was of the same nature with that which serves for the same purpose in fashionable societies, though the topics were perhaps a little different. A damsed far over-dressed, in gay colours and flaunting streamers, went over the dance with a very awkward country youth in heavy boots-- 
                
               'The grand caravan,' whispered Docket to his partner in passing. 
               'Yes,' she said in return; 'or Dandy Jack and the elephant.' 
               'Or the locomotive on a Fourth-o'-July excursion,' chimed in another of the party, for these whispers were all quite audible to the initiated, while the glances which gave them application were legible enough to many others. 
               'Hush!' said Susan, 'that young lady is a particular friend of mine,' but even as she said so, a light laugh and a not disapproving eye rather encouraged than repressed the rudeness. 
               The ill-dressed damsel was Jeremiah's sister. 
               He waited very quietly till the dance was done, and then as quietly took his sister home. Yet there was something in his eye as he passed that made his youthful hostess feel uncomfortable. In spite of her airs when she was joked about the rustic lover, she was very desirous of standing well with him, and now that conscience was decidedly on his side, she felt humbled before his look of displeasure, though it was sedulously turned away from herself. Heaven sends these minute, unsuspected arrows down into our hearts, to discover us to ourselves; to remind us of the sensibility which exists there, almost buried under the crust of worldliness and folly that we are so industrious in forming day by day. It is comfortable to think this inner self is our real one, rather than the poor, frivolous, outside being that most of us are seduced into appearing. 
               But our heroine was, for the present, fairly given over to the worser self. 
               The never lover, who saw and understood the feelings of his rival, now felt all the advantage of a triumph. With a certain assurance of being well received that sometimes helps on its own realization, he planted himself at Susan's side; he danced with her; he whispered the prettiest things he could think of in her not unwilling willing ear-in short, before, the latest of the neighbour-guests had departed, he managed to make her understand that his case was desperate, and almost fancy her own so. The flutter of gratified vanity often passes for love. 
               Meanwhile the general course of the party had passed almost unobserved by these the most important actors. Susan had indeed seen her father and mother help old Mrs. Corning down the log-steps, and commit her, with a thousand charges and a great bundle of good things, to the care of the boys. She observed the untiring solicitude of that dear good mother for the comfort of each and every guest, gentle and simple, rich and poor. More thorough disinterestedness, greater forgetfulness of self, could not be. If Mrs. Plummer had a thought that turned towards self that day, it was in the shape of secret rejoicing that Providence had given her something to spare-but that was rather thankfulness than egotism. Susan looked upon her mother with a new pleasure-as if she had been forgetting how good she was, and was only now re-awakening to the sense of it. She was unpleasantly conscious that her own part had been far less gracious. She had permitted, if not encouraged a ridicule of certain members of the company as unfeeling as it was ill-bred, but it never once occurred to her that any one living could consider her mother an object of ridicule. She would have pleaded her mother's loveliness of character in bar of any contemptuous notice of her ungainly person. The reflection that each of those whose pride had been wounded through her fault, might perhaps be able to offer quite as good reasons for exemption never crossed her mind. To ridicule people for natural imperfections, or for the lack of those graces which they have never enjoyed the opportunity of acquiring, is in truth too barbarous for Esquimaux, although we see it every day practiced in our social circles without a shudder. The Frenchman knew better, when he said, 'People are never ridiculous for what they are, but for what they pretend to be,' which would have turned the tables here. 
               A very trying moment of reality is that which Hood once pictured as 'The Effects of a Spent Ball;' lights dying; weary servants trying to pretend to straighten matters a little by collecting spoons and picking up plates and glasses; masters and mistresses yawning, with a terrible sense of goneness and of the vanity of all earthly things; young folks recollecting, of all the proud festivity of the evening, only the particular points of mistake or failure, of lacking attentions or ungracious refusals. The only wise course at such times is utter silence, and an immediate retreat into the region of forgetfulness, not always easy to reach under such circumstances. 
               Few are the practical philosophers who submit peacefully to the necessity of the case, deferring comment and reminiscence to the morning hour of mental and moral sanity. 
               Not among these were found our worthy party-givers, after the door had closed behind the last departing visitor. No experience had taught them to defer till the morrow all opening up of matters which could hardly be well discussed under the circumstances. The feeling of gloom and vexation which had shadowed the faces of Susan's family during the latter part of the entertainment, now found outlet in words which touched the wearied and irritable girl's too conscious nerves to the quick. Mr. Plummer said little, for he was a man of stern nature and few words; but he left no doubt of his sentiments; while his wife, more tender and more loquacious, used her feminine privilege to talk the whole matter over, and call to Susan's mind many particulars which she hoped might have passed unnoticed. This was the signal for the whole
                   
                   
                   band of brothers, who had been bursting with indignation, the more that the insult was of an intangible nature, and hardly admitted of being reckoned for with fists, especially as there were ladies implicated. We need hardly go into particulars, for when people undertake to speak their minds under irritation, there is seldom anything to record. The general indignation was indeed principally directed against the B-- people, but Susan had her share as accessory after the fact-aider and abettor of those who had conspicuously despised her friends and neighbours. How she could like such people, and why she did not instantly renounce them forever, was the wonder! 
               The defence was very lame, as may be supposed, for Susan was far from being supported by 
                     The strong-siding champion, Conscience,
                   whose place her admiration of Mr. Docket but ill supplied. She tried to justify, by insisting on the ridiculousness of some of the persons ridiculed, but here she was soon cut short, 
               'Is father a bear? say!' said one of the boys; 'and does old Aunty Corning look like a mummy?' (Jake had seen pictures of mummies in his schoolbooks.) 
               'O Jake! who said so?' said the abashed sister. 
               'One of your grand acquaintances,' Jake replied, with a gesture that said very plainly, 'I only wish I had him out by the barn!' 
               By this time poor Susan and her mother were both weeping, but this was not enough. 
               'You've lost Jeremiah, I can tell you, Miss!' David began; 'he'll never be coming round here again, after his sister being treated so, and you taking sides with them that did it!' 
                
               'Jeremiah!' said Susan, with her old air of disregard, even through her tears. 
               'O she thinks now she's caught that impudent B-- lawyer, an honest fellow like Jeremiah's not worth lookin' at; but I can tell you, Miss! that while your fine beau was laughing at his betters, Jeremiah came back again, after he had taken Mary home, (because she was laughed at,) and offered his wagon to those two lame girls from up the hill, and poor old Uncle Jacob, that lives away the other side of the pond--' 
               Susan said nothing to this, for she was determined not to take Jeremiah into the account in her repentance. 
               'I can tell something, if I choose,' said little George, slily. 
               'Hush, hush, my son,' whispered the good mother. 
               'No, no, mother, let him tell,' said Jake, whose boiling indignation longed for full vent. 
               'Well,' continued George, 'I was just by the fence as the B-- people were driving out, and I heard Susan's beau say that he wondered old Mother Elephant had not offered to help him into the wagon, she was so awful good; and then one of the others said-"Did you ever see an elephant with such a red face?" and then they all laughed.' 
               'George!' said Susan, turning pale and red by turns, 'did you hear them say so, and did they mean mother?-MOTHER!' 
               'They didn't mean anybody else!' said the child sturdily. 
               'Mother, mother! said the repentant girl, as she fell weeping on her mother's breast, forgive me! Can you forgive me that I could ever forget you for such wretches?' For Susan needed no enlightening now, on the subject of wanton ridicule; tenderness is a good teacher of morals. 
               Did Mrs. Plummer ever forgive her daughter? 
                
               Did Susan's affections continue obstinately to cling to the 'refined' Docket? 
               Did the time ever come when Jeremiah proved more acceptable? 
               These points may safely be left to the imagination of the reader. 
             
             
                
               NEATNESS. 
               AMONG the powers that rule the world, Neatness must certainly be reckoned, and as such we are bound to treat it with due respect. Let us never call it the 'Science of Soap and Water,' for it is much more. We might better, after the Persian manner, find emblems for its potency under such figures as 'Dew on the Rose;' 'Handmaid of Love;' 'Discerner of Quality;' 'Touchstone of Temper,' etc. And there are times, and seasons, and people, that might bring to mind another class of characteristics no less appropriate: 'Mote in the Eye;' 'Musquito in Church;' 'Hang-nail;' 'Stone in one's Pudding,' or any other word, simple or compound, that expresses grinding disagreeableness from which we cannot escape. Strange that what is so good can be made so annoying! but no-for is not the sharpest vinegar made of sugar? Even such is the transformation of sweet Neatness; ferment it is that changes its nature. 
               Let us conciliate a certain class of readers, by declaring at the outset that Neatness is an excellent thing! Let this assertion be carried along in the mind, as a sort of running accompaniment to our variations on the theme, lest an important element in the intended harmony be missed. We love Neatness! we respect it! we are miserable without it! Can more be said? 
                
               Why, then, say anything against it? We will not-only against its counterfeits and its pretensions. And all in the abstract, too. 
               What is Neatness, then? Shall we go back to the origin of all things? Shall we settle the boundaries between clean and its opposite? Shall we call up from Nature's laboratory her array of simple substances, and decide which of them it is our duty to make war upon, for the better preservation and higher enjoyment of the rest? This will be a hard task; for our own composition combines so many of them, that we shall be obliged to tolerate the proscribed for the sake of the others. But perhaps it will be said that position and circumstances make the difference; and that, though dust we are, and to dust shall return, yet dust is none the more to be tolerated on the chairs and tables which we are to use now. To this we assent; yet, as it is impossible to annihilate dust, we would not let it spoil our tempers, or make slaves of our servants. Still less would we have cultivated and charming women waste their energies in continual brushing and polishing. 
               A friend of ours, on a morning visit, heard a singular whistling noise, which attracted her attention so much, that the lady with whom she was sitting felt obliged to explain. 
               'It is only Aunt Mary,' said she, 'blowing the dust out of the key-holes with the bellows.' 
               There may be some people enough like her to represent us as inimical to Neatness, because we thus warn our fair readers against its excesses. But we care not to make submissions to quackery. Let us come at the truth if we can, even though it be a puzzling or an unpopular truth. We consider Neatness as belonging to the beautiful, and intend to vindicate ourselves from such aspersions sions some day, by an essay on Neatness considered as one of the Fine Arts. 
               Now the question arises, was Aunt Mary well employed or not? 
               We might ask, in the first place, what harm the dust in the key-hole could do any body? Perhaps the draught of air might send it into the parlor to be spread upon the furniture; but, then, would not every hour's inevitable contribution from the street scatter twice or ten times as much? 
               And allowing that the key-hole needed purification, for the idea of the thing, was Aunt Mary-a lady of fortune and a moderate share of intelligence-the proper person to blow it out? 
               No demon was ever so tyrannical-so impudently aggressive on human rights as Neatness, in some houses. It rules people and events-business and pleasure-intellectual cultivation and religious duty, with a rod of iron. It tramples on the duties of hospitality-crushes the kind feelings of relationship-puts to flight even parental affection. We can never forget the grim look that came on the face of a mother once, when we asked, 'How can it be that your house looks as if there were no child in it? Does this little girl never make any litter?' 'She knows what she would get, if she did!' was the reply, with a glance at the poor child that was enough to set it crying. The little victim was even then tied in its chair, which we had not before noticed. After a few years of such training, it was sent to Dr. Abbe on account of curved spine. 
               We were on a visit once, at a house remarkable even in a country village for its Neatness. It was, indeed, a beautiful establishment-so beautiful, that at first the number of hours spent every day by the mistress and her daughters in bringing every point to perfection, seemed hardly too much. But a very few days' familiarity sufficed to show that everything else, of whatever moment, was subordinate to this one object. Time was mere dross where it was in question. Reading, music, conversation, the reception of visitors, the acceptance of invitations, however agreeable-all must be put aside rather than disturb jot or tittle of the house-hold array. When the sun made ovens of the upper rooms-which it will do of wooden houses in the country in July-every body must suffer, or be idle rather than open a parlor window and endanger the furniture. No sewing must ever be brought into the sacred precincts, lest a shred should mar the perfection of the carpet. A visitor, who, coming in after a shower, brought in some unhappy sand upon his boots, was treated with marked coolness; and a little girl with a bunch of wild flowers, which she innocently thought would be an acceptable offering to the guest, was unceremoniously desired to go home, before her feet had well crossed the threshold. There was a perfect hatred of books, because they were apt to be found upon the tables; and to leave the piano open, or the music any where but in strict array in its case, was subject for a lecture. Occasional flurries of temper in the family invariably referred to the ruling passion; and to get the children away to school was apparently the sole object of their education. 
               If domestic carelessness be odious, surely Neatness such as this is melancholy. 
               Neatness assumes various forms in different places and conditions in society; but all forms include a sort of warfare-some an angry fight. In the city the struggle is more moderate, because it is carried on principally by means of mercenaries. These have to be watched, it is true, in most families; but as this allows some scope to our love of power, while it helps to gratify our pride of appearance, it makes no very serious inroads upon our temper. In the larger villages, where 'help' is scarce and ill-trained, the aspect of the thing changes essentially. Madame must make herself acquainted with all the practical details of household order, and in case of emergency put her own shoulder to the wheel, or she will prepare mortification and discomfiture for herself, perhaps at some most important moment. And what is worse, her personal reputation is at stake. The blame will fall on principals-not on secondaries; and if certain symptoms of untidiness-which I need not enumerate, since they are well known to those for whom I write-are observable about a house, woe to the fair fame of its mistress at the next morning call or tea-party! Mysterious whispers will go round-sharp looks be cast, and, perhaps, the unhappy delinquent be met with the cold shoulder by her dearest friend. She has not carried on the war against the common enemy with vigour, and she must expect the fate of all recreants-open or secret contempt. 
               It costs something to earn a reputation for Neatness in the new country. There, one must not expect to stand in the first rank, unless a continual daily scrubbing and washing of everything washable, and some things not properly so, is carried on by the mistress in person, with only the aid of some young lady who chooses to 'live out for a spell,' but never expects to bear the brunt of domestic labour. Every chair and table, closet and floor, must undergo incessant friction; and even paint is considered rather a trick of laziness. Carpets are decidedly repudiated, and stigmatized as 'nasty things,' because they 'hide dirt'. Clothing of all colours is reduced to one undistinguished brown by the use of the strongest soap, that it may be clean. Neatness costs something under such circumstances. 
               It is by no means easy to draw the line with strict justice between our pride of Neatness and the amount of labour we have a right to demand of our servants. Up to a certain point we are entitled to call upon them; beyond this we become cruel and oppressive. Now, as a very large part of the extra Neatness on which some people pride themselves so highly, is wrung out of the souls and bodies of their servants, it certainly becomes them to be carefully conscientious in the measure of their exactions. How many there are who really feel a frequent change of clothing to be a merit-it is easy to deny what looks so foolish when plainly stated, yet the fact is immovable-who never once reflect that their servants alone pay for this gratification of vanity. It is true that where we pay our laundress for each separate piece that she washes, we have a right to as many changes as our time and patience will allow; but where this is not the case, all that we indulge ourselves in beyond a certain limit is at the direct cost of those who, receiving only pay for general services, are completely at our mercy as to particulars. As we have said, it is not easy to draw the line, but we are bound to draw it. 
               We gladly concede a merit to the practice of Neatness, and cannot help looking upon one to whom it is indifferent as essentially coarse, if not wicked. Personal cleanliness, in particular, we are willing to rank 'next to godliness,' as some old writer has it, justified by many a scriptural expression. A gentleman once, in our hearing, addressing a ragged school, began with, 'The Scripture says, clean hands and a pure heart go together,' and made this the text of a very pertinent discourse; and we were by no means inclined to accuse him of a perversion. It is certain that to attempt the elevation of the degraded by beginning at any other point is useless; yet it is not to be concealed that some of the most hardened criminals we have ever seen, were scrupulously neat in their habits, so that we must not consider our outward purity as an unquestionable distinction. 
               It may easily be seen that as to the merit of neatness, it must vary very much under these differing circumstances. All merit must arise from sacrifice; and the lady who prides herself upon the neatness of her house while she sits idle upon the sofa, is solacing herself with a delusion. Perhaps the unveiling of this delusion would show her something very like selfishness. If, for the sake of an extremity of neatness, she keep her servants unnecessarily busy, thus encroaching upon that rest, recreation, and opportunity for self-culture which is the rightful inheritance of every creature in a Christian land, she is offering up human sacrifices to her idol. If she give her own time to such things, it becomes her to decide upon the amount of time which it is lawful to devote to that portion of neatness which has principal reference to mere show-the only portion which is likely to be carried to excess. If the cultivation of the mind and manners,-the social habits,-the duties of charity,-are encroached upon in any degree by the indulgence of this sort of pride, it becomes far other than a merit. 
               As a fountain of censorious remark, the passionate pursuit of neatness has many a sin to answer for. What evil surmises, what betrayals of friendship, what endless bickerings, have grown out of this mean emulation, in small places, where everybody knows everybody's business, and the minutest detail of domestic life! We have ourselves heard a lady who had been for days officiating as a friend within a dwelling where the deepest sorrow had prostrated every inmate, describe with lifted brows and in a mysterious half-whisper, the disordered condition of the house, and this to a whole circle of village gossips, while the sufferers were thinking of her as an angel of mercy. She was not malicious; she was only showing off her own Neatness! 
             
             
                
               LENDING BOOKS. 
               WHAT is the use of books? 
               Somebody answers rather sharply-'To be read, certainly!' 
               Is this your candid opinion? Then allow us to ask whether you habitually lend the most useful books in your library-those which have done the most for your own mind-to every one who is likely to take proper care of them? When you rise from the perusal of a volume which has delighted you, do you long to offer it to some friend who can share your pleasure, or do you put the book carefully out of sight, and rather shrink from alluding to it, lest you should be asked to lend it? 
               Miss Bremer says, everybody has some one little meanness, and she makes a party of her characters confess their sins of this sort to one another. One owns herself stingy in pins-another, in pen and paper-another in old linen, &c.: but none confesses that ne plus ultra of penuriousness-an unwillingness to lend a book. 
               'But I cannot bear to have my books defaced.' Nor can we; nor would we lend books of choice outside to those who would be likely to deface them. But the best books-those which it is most desirable to lend, are not ordinarily put in splendid binding. The style of the day is, a neat and inexpensive binding, easily renewed at small cost. 
               'But any book is injured by much handling.' Certainly; and, to our thinking, the proverb about wearing out and rusting out, applies peculiarly to this case. What of our possessions is more perishable than books? Fire and water, insects, worms, mould and mildew, invade them in spite of our best care. Bind your whole library in Russia leather, and you have provided against only one of these evils. Guard against them all, and there will still be the fading and tarnishing power of light and air, and the slow but sure corrosion and decay of Time. Keep them from obvious deterioration during your own life, and what becomes of them then? The progress of science will have made some of them useless: others will wear a yellow and obsolete aspect, and be superseded by something in a more fashionable form; and daily experience tells us that the choicer and better-preserved the collection, the more certain is it, when the owner dies, to come to the hammer and be sold for a song. And if each volume has been read by only one, two, or half a dozen persons, what a shocking waste of means-what an odious avarice of Heaven's good gifts, has the owner been guilty of! Let not such expend their indignation upon those quacks who, for their own selfish ends, hide from the world the secrets of healing. Davy might as well have locked up the safety-lamp, and smiled in his study to think that he had so snugly to himself the means of preventing explosions. That invention could but prolong this earthly life; a good book may fit us for this and for another. 
               Lady Morgan has a sprightly paper, called 'The Key of the Library,' ridiculing the idea of such an appendage. We confess we should like to exercise a little discretion in the matter; there must be defences against the profane. If a friend sends home our books decorated with arabesques of spermaceti, or giving too striking proofs of his devotion to the 'midnight oil;' if he is in the habit of setting his tumbler on a page to save the table, or propping a window with what has elevated our thoughts, or using our folio Shakspeare to make a raised seat for his little boy-why we may hesitate-to say the least-about lending him an illuminated Froissart, though we could not, even then, refuse him our Arnold or our Channing, bound in cloth and having already seen service. 
               The prophet Jeremiah ordered his two books to be enclosed in an earthen vessel and buried in the earth; but it was that they might be forthcoming at a certain time, and for a great purpose. Hoarders of books in this age of books, are only keeping them for the day of auction. Somebody once proposed the construction of a book to be called the 'Book of Eternity'-its leaves being of asbestos paper, the cover and the thread of the same material; the matter was to be printed in gold, that the whole might be indestrustible. Some may think that such a volume, at least, might be locked up; but we should consider it just the one which we could not refuse to lend, especially if certain writings which we think calculated to be greatly efficient for good were thus enshrined. 
               If our paper were as tender as that used in the East, which can scarcely be folded without breaking, we might dread the 'dog's ears,' which some ardent readers are apt to make in order to find readily their favourite passages; but we have only to turn them quietly back again, or at worst to pass a warm iron over them, and all is smooth again. Pencil-marks, too, which some seem to consider a grateful offering in return for the pleasure they receive from a friend's book, can be removed by means unknown to the ancients. Records of assent or dissent in ink on the margin, or pen-and-ink drawings, facetious or otherwise, are less easily disposed of; but we must console ourselves by thinking that if our friend should become famous, these annotations of his will greatly enhance the value of our books. Think how we should prize a volume enriched with manuscript notes by Milton! 
               When books were a yard and a half wide and fifty yards long, rolled on huge sticks and kept in embroidered cases, the utmost stretch of courtesy could only have required that we should invite our friend to sit by our fire and read. But now, when 'wisdom crieth in the streets,' and all knowledge is made portable, it must require a sort of courage which we have no desire to possess, to refuse the loan of a good book to any one capable of enjoying or profiting by it. Light, air and water are free to all; and we would fain see books-no less precious to the immortal than those to the mortal part-placed nearly on the same footing. 'Without books,' says Bartholin, 'God is silent, justice dormant, physic at a stand, philosophy lame, letters dumb, and all things involved in Cimmerian darkness.' Who Bartholin was, we cannot tell, most of our knowledge being second-hand; but with so just an appreciation of books, we venture to claim him for our side in this question, quite sure that he must have made his library a circulating one, on principle. 
               But somebody asks, very reasonably, what becomes of the interests of the publisher, in such a case? 
               Dr. Franklin answered this question long ago, by the suggestion that in diffusing books we create readers; and experience justifies his opinion. Borrowers of books are of several classes: First best, those who long for them and have not the means of purchasing; to lend to such is so obviously both a duty and a pleasure that we need not say a word about it. Secondly; those whose taste has not yet been particularly directed towards reading, but whose attention and interest are awakened by hearing us or others talk about particular works. To lend to such, is like helping the impotent man in when the fountain is troubled; it were a sin to refrain. Thirdly; those who like reading well enough, provided it be light and sparkling, but who can only be persuaded to look into a book of any value by our saying, 'Here it is; do read it to gratify me!' Who has not been delighted to prevail in such cases? Fourthly; friends who do not happen to be reading exactly in our track, but whose sympathy is necessary to our full enjoyment of what we like; we need no urging to lend our choicest books to them. Fifthly, and lastly-for we will not run into nice discriminations-there are people who, though quite able to buy books, make it a rule never to buy one if they can borrow it. To such, after we have once discovered the trick, we may justifiably be flint or gutta percha, offering a hopeless resistance to hints, suggestions, and even downright demands, for to lend books to them is palpable robbery of the publisher. But this is the only class to whom we would be even seemingly churlish where books are in question, for all the others are in the way to be added to the number of book-buyers. 
               But what shall be said of those who never trouble themselves to return our books? That question touches a sore point. Bear witness, O ye yawning gulfs in our poor library, what we have suffered from these foes of good-fellowship-these teachers of selfishness! If ye could speak, O ye mutilated sets! what a tale would ye tell of bereavement and wasting. These people never see a new or good book but they long for it, and longing they ask, and asking they have, and having they devour! literally, we must suppose, since that is the last one ever sees of one's dear companions. The tracks all point inwards, towards the dens of these spoilers. Their libraries wax as our's wane. The best blood of our literary veins goes to enrich theirs, and no plethora ever induces them to deplete. They are liberal lenders, indeed, for they say-'That book isn't mine; I don't know whose it is; you may have it and welcome-only return it!' Modest creatures! They do not know how the estray came among their possessions, for it has been there so long that it has ceased to wear a stranger's face; but they are conscientious about not parting with it, lest the owner should call for it. If owners were wise enough to take notes of the books they lend, the travellers would not have time to become so thoroughly domesticated. 
               We need hardly caution any one against this class of borrowers; only against ever becoming such. 
               But we must again say-after surveying all difficulties and weighing all drawbacks-Lend! The book may be returned, and if not, you have at least done your utmost toward the dissemination of the good it contains; and perhaps the very carelessness that prevents the borrower from ever thinking of it after he has done with it may set it afloat on the world, and cause it to fall into hands that in your own careful keeping it never would have reached. O the comfort, the light, the suggestion, the amusement, that books yield-how can we bear to shut them up? Would we refuse the sick man a pillow-the wounded an air-bed-the sorrowful a sympathizing friend-the erring a guide-the young an adviser-the sad a cheering laugh-the ignorant a teacher-the wicked a warning? Would any one lock up a road-side well from the thirsty traveller, or turn his lantern on the single narrow path, to the exclusion of needy wayfarers, whose stumblings and whose despondency it would avert? 
               Books are sometimes collected through pride-sometimes through mere avidity, like other graspings-sometimes through a desire to seem literary. Such libraries are naturally and perhaps properly, kept looked, for thus they fulfil their destiny. But books gathered for love-books that we prize above almost all else that can be bought with money; books to which we owe our own best selves; books that we recur to with a feeling akin to fondness, and think of with an ever increasing pleasure-let these be current with whomsoever will prize them, and if we love any one who does not yet know how, let us never rest till we have taught him. He can never be wholly ours till he loves our favourite books. One of the dearest and strongest links of sympathy is wanting. To be the usher of a good book any where is an honourable and genial office; but when the receiver is a dear friend, we have a right to the sweetest kind of self-gratulation; for when heart and intellect are in full accord, conspiring to one gracious end, is there not happiness, such as earth can hardly offer in any other shape? 
             
             
                
               MRS. PELL'S PILGRIMAGE. 
               MRS. PELL would go. She was rather a meek and mild-mannered person, generally; but those are the very people who are hardest to manage when once they take hold of a moving idea. Her husband, a retired sea-captain, who had never slept out of his own comfortable house since he made his last voyage round the world, years and years ago, tried his very best to dissuade her from so rash an enterprise; even to frighten her, by a recapitulation of the dangers of land travelling, which he sincerely believed much more formidable than those belonging to the sea, inclusive of doubling the Horn, and trading among the cannibals. 
               Mrs. Pell owned she should be afraid to go up the Hudson in a sail-boat, but a steam-boat was quite a different thing. 
               'Steamboat!' said the captain. 'How absurd to fancy that the danger from water is lessened by heating it to the boiling point!' 
               But Mrs. Pell would go, and she would take little Tommy, too! Now little Tommy was the apple of the eye to both his parents, and on this occasion he came very near becoming an apple of discord. For the mother voluntarily to subject herself to all sorts of inconveniences and dangers was bad enough, but to insist on taking that poor innocent child! 
                
               
                   
                
                
                
               Little Tommy was the only child of a somewhat late marriage, Captain Pell having followed the sea round and round the world until it gave him a competence, before he thought of settling himself. Being by that time a little rheumatic and weather-beaten, he provided in the first place the snuggest of all possible dwellings, with holes in the closet shelves to stick spoons and glasses in, and all the settees ingeniously contrived to serve for lockers, so as to have 'everything convenient.' When all was fitted out and abundantly stored, the captain bethought him that a mate was necessary to keep things right; and he soon fixed upon a person for that responsible situation. This was Mrs. Beulah Beers, the comely widow of a nautical friend, who had some years before died in his berth, like one of Hood's heroes. This lady had no family, and she stepped from a very similar home quite naturally into Captain Pell's, bringing with her so many additions to his outfit for the voyage of life, that the most fastidious worshipper of worldly conveniences would have owned that nothing could be added to render the worthy couple more completely unfit to live anywhere else. 
               After these hints, one need not say that both Captain and Mrs. Pell were rather particular people, but the timely advent of little Tommy upon the stage prevented them from turning into absolute tee-totums, since he now occupied a large share of the attention which had formerly been concentrated upon a double-self. 
               But here trouble had arisen-and so unexpectedly; and all through Mrs. Pell's headlong determination to go ever so far to visit a nephew who had just married a rich wife! 
               'What good will her riches do you?' said Captain Pell, who was vexed almost beyond the amenities. 'What good will they do you? She will not give you any of them.' 
               'I don't want any, thank fortune,' said Mrs. Pell; 'but Putnam is the first of our family that ever married money, and I am determined to see with my own eyes what sort of wife has come with it; and I will take Tommy too, for it will be such a good opportunity for him to see something of the world.' 
               'But you may be sure Putnam will bring his wife to town, and then you could see her without going through so much. And as to taking Tommy--' 
               'But in town she would be just like any other woman-buying finery and seeing sights. I want to see her and Putnam together in their own house. And as to taking Tommy, I shall not stir a step without him.' 
               So Mrs. Pell would go. Captain Pell said she was past listening to reason-meaning, probably, that she would not listen to him. He, therefore, with a very husbandish air, made up of a sense of superior wisdom, a feeling of pity for the wilful folly of the weaker vessel, and a very legible look of 'I wash my hands of the consequences,' set about aiding Mrs. Pell in her preparations--hunting up the key of the huge brown hair trunk which was to contain her choicest costume in honour of the rich niece; engaging a passage for her on board the steamboat, and ordering a cab at six to be ready for the boat at seven. 
               And now such clear-starching; such ironing out of everything that was rumpled; such racings to the thread-and-needle store for all sorts of muniments for the voyage; such fillings of comphor and cologne bottles; such bagging of cloaks and India-rubbers; such basketings of cake and oranges, which both Mrs. Pell and the captain were convinced could not be obtained after once leaving New York! 
               'Take my spy-glass, my dear,' said the good captain; 'it will be an excellent thing to see the scenery with. You can slip it into the same case with the umbrella and parasol and sun-shade, and then it will give you no trouble at all. And I have a capital, neat little pocket compass, too, that you must take; it will be such satisfaction to know which way you're going.' 
               The neat little pocket compass was like a monstrous watch, but Mrs. Pell put it in her pocket, resolved to omit nothing that could enhance the pleasure of the trip. She took her large feather fan in case it should be warm, and three shawls of various thickness as provision against cool mornings and evenings. The captain would have liked to add a famous old pea-jacket of his, for fear of storms, but to this the lady objected, thinking her cloak would probably protect her until she could find shelter somewhere. A bottle of Preston salts went to keep the compass in countenance, and there was still room in that capacious reservoir-air elderly lady's pocket-for a travelling manual, a memorandum-book, a pen and pencil-case and seals, not to mention the thimble, the nutmeg, and the bit of calamus that always reposed there; a purse well-stocked, especially with change, (which would of course be very difficult to procure,) and a few small nails, which the captain's care added in case anything might give way about the trunk. 
               'In the large basket, my dear,' said Captain Pell, 'you will find the cakes and oranges, and a pound of sweet chocolate, which you must remember if you should get a poor supper anywhere; and the Graham biscuits and the box of guava marmalade are in this corner, and the powders and the camphor in this. Don't forget to take your lozenges; they are in the red box. Your thick shoes, remember, and Tommy's great coat, are in the top of the trunk; you must make the chambermaid take them out for you if the decks should be damp.' 
               By and by, with the aid of the captain, the washerwoman, the seamstress, the dress-maker, and various others-all artists in their way-Mrs. Pell and Tommy were ready for the cab; and there they sat waiting full ten minutes after the appointed time, Mrs. Pell in the parlour and Tommy on the front steps, perfectly assured that they would be left. The delinquent cabman, when he did appear, was well rated, and ordered to drive for his very life; which he did, of course-not forgetting, however, to take very good care of the lives of his horses. 
               The steamer was nearly as quiet as she had been in the morning. No passengers had come down but a few fidgetty people; and Captain Pell had abundant leisure to bestow Mrs. Pell's baggage in what he considered the very best place, to seek out the captain and commend Mrs. Pell to his especial care, and to reiterate his charges and cautions as to the various difficulties and perils of the way. 
               'You had better sit where you can keep a look-out on the baggage, and if anybody offers to touch it, send for the captain at once. This carpet-bag and the two band-boxes, and the large basket and the case with the umbrella and parasol and sun-shade and telescope, can stand here in the corner of the cabin, and you must keep an eye on them too. And don't set down your hand-basket; and above all things don't lose sight of Tommy, or he'll be crushed in the machinery before you know it.' 
               Thus good Captain Pell ran on, in a sort of despairing undertone, until he began to be jostled and bounced about by the thronging passengers in such a way that his eloquence became sadly fragmentary. His further converse, if properly noted, would have been as full of breaks and dashes as a pathetic novel. At length a bell, loud, piercing, imperative, made him fairly jump-treading, as he came down, upon three ladies' toes at once. 
               'Oh, run, father, run! do go, quick!' said little Tommy, pushing and butting at his father with all his might. 'Run, or you'll be carried off!' 
               'What a careful, dear little soul it is!' said both parents. 
               'Good-bye, my dear! good-bye, Tommy!' followed by two or three very audible kisses, preceded Captain Pell's departure by only a moment. He darted over the gangway, with the air of a man trying to dodge the blasting of a rock after the train is lighted, and made his way up Courtlandt street without loss of time. 
               Mrs. Pell now felt decidedly that she had commenced her journey. 'Is the boat a-going, chambermaid?' said she. 
               'No, madam,' said the stately bronze dame. 
               'There, now it moves, doesn't it, Tommy?' said Mrs. Pell, after waiting painfully a whole minute rather than seem importunate. 
               Tommy didn't know, but he rather thought it did. 
               'Now we're going, ar'n't we, chambermaid?' 
               No, madam,' was all the satisfaction she could obtain, and she waited in snubbed silence until the frightful bell sounded again. 
               'Good gracious! has anything happened, chambermaid?' 
               'No, madam.' 
               Poor Mrs. Pell gazed at the great dark eyes of the Indian queen of the cabin, as if seeking in their calm depths the source of such wonderful fortitude. Presently the cry of 'All ashore!' roused her to quivering life. 
               She rushed frantically from the cabin, not forgetting to drag little Tommy after her. 'What has happened? Do tell me-do, for pity's sake, tell me! Must we all go ashore?' 
               Then, observing that the shore receded rapidly, she showed a disposition to jump from the gangway; but the sailors fortunately closed it just then, so she only jumped into the captain's arms. 
                
               'Oh, what is the matter?' she said once more, but faintly, for she had spent her strength in former alarms. 
               'Nothing at all, my dear madam,' said the captain, very politely, at the same time offering his arm for a return to the cabin. 'I hope you'll make yourself as comfortable as possible, and fear nothing whatever.' 
               At this moment there happened to be a slight escape of steam. Mrs. Pell clung convulsively to the stout arm she held. 'Ah, captain, what is that?' she said, in a faintly reproachful tone-as much as to say, 'You assured me there was no danger!' 
               'Only the steam, ma'am,' said the captain. 
               'Ah! we shall be all scalded to death!' said the unfortunate lady. 
               'Scalded, my dear madam,' said the captain, who began to see into the case a little. 'This is an engine of the newest construction, and requires the water to be only blood warm.' 
               So saying, he deposited Mrs. Pell, a good deal pacified by this assurance, in a rocking-chair in the cabin, and then darted off as if he had had a propeller in his pocket. 
               'Is this your band-box, Madam?' said the dame in the Madras turban; 'and this, and the large basket?' 
               'Yes--yes! Do not disturb them; they must stand just here, where Captain Pell put them.' 
               'They must all go out of the cabin, madam. It's against the rules to have anything of the kind here.' 
               Mrs. Pell was tempted to appeal to the captain, but feeling already weak and weary, and observing that the other ladies submitted, she shook her head despairingly, and no longer resisted the authorities. The rocking-chair was of a consolatory and lulling depth and motion, and with a slight sniff at the Preston salts, and then a camphor lozenge, and the large fan-- 
               But 'that way madness lies'--Where was the fan? 
               'Perhaps that's it, that that that lady's a-settin' on,' said an honest country dame, who sat among the satin damask, and French embroidery, looking like a cabbage in a conservatory. The 'lady' did not stir, till Mrs. Pell, catching a glimpse of her beloved fan, was at some pains to rouse her from her Saratoga reverie. 
               'Ma'am?' drawled the languid Carolinian. 
               'My fan, ma'am, is under you,' said our traveller, with heroic politeness; and at last she succeeded in rescuing the magnificent turkey-tail, which had fanned the dim aisles of many a Georgian forest, now not a little marred by having been used as a cushion. 
               By this time the rocking-chair was appropriated by a nurse and baby, and Mrs. Pell, reflecting that the true use of travel was to see the world, resolved to try the upper deck. At the top of the stairs, just as she came in sight of the company, the wind took the voluminous skirt of her black silk dress entirely over her head, and by the time she and Tommy had succeeded in getting it down again, the beloved fan was floating on the foaming bosom of the Hudson. 
               'Stop the boat! stop the boat!' cried Mrs. Pell, to the infinite diversion of the passengers; but the evening breezes bore her fruitless entreaties to the Palisades, where they doubtless moved the oaks and pines as much as they had done the grinning waiters. 
               But great emergencies call up great resolution; and Mrs. Pell soon making up her mind that these things must be expected when we venture on the treacherous waves, applied herself to the observation of the scenery. Here Captain Pell's excellent glass came to mind, and to think of it and to descend at once to the cabin for it, regardless of the difficulties of the way, were but the work of a moment with our heroine, who grew every moment more confident in her powers. At the top of the stairs she was again enveloped in a cloud of black silk; but, nothing daunted, she pursued her way, found the glass, and bore it to the deck in triumph, having taken the precaution to pin the rebellious skirt to some more sedate portion of her dress. 
               Unfortunately, the shades of night had made the glass utterly useless before this was accomplished; and as it was of something near the weight of a Kentucky rifle, Mrs. Pell bestowed it in a convenient corner for the present. When the bell rang for tea, a gentleman offered to take care of it, so that all trouble was at an end on that score. 
               The souchong was good, and the toast not very cold, and a bland satisfaction was beginning to enliven the countenance of our friend, when a man touched her elbow, and wanted her 'tea-ticket. She had none. 
               'Half a dollar, ma'am, if you please.' 
               'But my passage is paid! Captain Pell paid my passage!' 
               'Yes, ma'am: but the tea--' 
               'I shall ask the captain.' 
               The man waited quietly, but with his hand pertinaciously open. At length a benevolent old gentleman said, 'Hadn't you better pay now, ma'am, and ask the captain afterwards?' and Mrs. Pell, finding no consolation in the tittering faces about her, at length put her hand in her pocket for her purse. The exclamation which followed might have made one suppose she had found a snapping-turtle there. 
               She drew forth a piece of glass, firmly imbedded under the nail of one of her fingers, from which the blood was streaming. The various hard substances jostling in that deep receptacle had nearly pulverized the crystal of Captain Pell's compass, leaving only a few fragments large enough to cut fingers. Occasion for heroism again-to wind a handkerchief about the wound, and to pay a dollar for 'two teas,' her own and Tommy's. 
               Soon after this began the skirmish which always takes place when berths are to be appropriated; but first Mrs. Pell and Tommy sought the upper deck once more, to reclaim the telescope. Strange to say, the benevolent individual who had offered to take charge of it was nowhere to be seen; and, not to be tedious, we may as well say here that he never yet has been discovered, though Mrs. Pell expected for some time that he would still return the trust with many apologies. 
               Everybody who has travelled much upon the principal routes, knows from recollection or experience how such ladies as our adventurous friend pass a night on board the steamboat. They get in and out of bed every half hour, find the light hinders them from sleeping, and the darkness makes them afraid; the open window dangerous for the rheumatism, the close air threatening suffocation; the beds too hard, the pillows too small, the jar of the engine dreadful, and the crying of little babies more dreadful still. The rattling of the rudder chains wakes them out of every little nap, and they wake with a sort of nightmare feeling, saying aloud, to nobody in particular, that they dreamed they were buried alive. 
               Just such a night was that of our traveller. She walked about, threading her way among beds of all sorts and sizes, now stepping on a baby, now jostling the outstretched foot of some rather snappish dame, now going back to gaze fixedly at Tommy, whose features she could scarcely discern in the dim, shaded light. We will not venture to guess that she wished herself safe at home; but it is certain that each of these exploring expeditions ended with a deep sigh, and a return to the settee. At length the small hours which are so apt to bring calm to all sorts of disquietudes, fairly got the better of Mrs. Pell, and in spite of her determination not to sleep a wink, she fell into a sound slumber. 
               A clap of thunder disturbed this kindly oblivion. Mrs. Pell started up, rushed on deck, beheld the entire horizon in ghastly distinctness from what seemed almost one continuous flash of lightning, and the air filled with dust from the Highlands through which the steamer was passing. While she yet gazed, motionless with terror, the rain came down with such a rush that she was wet through in a moment. This was travelling, to be sure! One might go to England a dozen times without seeing as much of the world. However, one must never lose one's presence of mind; so our heroic friend dressed herself, awakened Tommy, and endued him in all the clothes he could possibly carry, and then calmly awaited the result in solitude and silence, for nobody else thought it worth while to get up. 
               Morning came at last, and with it a bright sun and much relief to those who had watched several hours by a dim lamp, expecting death at every clap of thunder. By the united aid of chambermaid, captain, and several waiters, Mrs. Pell and her movables were deposited in safety at a comfortable hotel, the lady feeling particularly grateful for the attention of a young gentleman who sat by her in the omnibus and expressed much satisfaction upon hearing that she was going so far on his way. When Mrs. Pell sought for her purse the next time, it was missing; and when she looked about her at breakfast, intending to claim the sympathy of her obliging young friend, he was missing, too-a coincidence which puzzled her exceedingly. 
               But even the loss of a purse could not mar the exhilarating sense of dangers past and adventures to come. A fresh supply of money from a trunk put our travellers in condition again, and the baggage being safely locked up in a car, they were able to enjoy a capital breakfast at Troy, with a walk on the balcony afterwards, where Tommy, whose spirits were very high, (considering everything, poor dear!) amused himself by opening and shutting his mamma's parasol, in the hope of frightening some omnibus horses that stood below. 
               'All aboard for Saratoga!' was the cry, and our travellers were the first to obey, leaving behind them in their flurry the bag containing the umbrella and sunshade, which they duly remembered after they were seated in the cars. Here was food for reflection.! The fan, Captain Pell's pet telescope, the purse, and now the umbrellas! We can hardly deny that reflections connected with these matters occupied Mrs. Pell's thoughts to the exclusion of everything but the fear that Tommy would get his fingers cut off, since he would persist in letting them project beyond the edge of the window. 
               At Saratoga, the baggage had to be shifted from the cars to a stage-coach, and Mrs. Pell was desired to identify hers. This she did very readily, until the large bandbox was in question. That article proved very difficult to recognize, for it had unfortunately been squeezed into the shape of the shield of Achilles, the stray flutes of lace and loops of ribbon which had escaped through numerous breaks serving for border. 
               'Oh, my caps! my caps!' sighed the disconsolate pilgrim, who was not so indifferent to the things of this world as pilgrims should be. 'What shall I do? They are ruined entirely!' 
               'Sure an' such a good-lookin' lady as yerself doesn't need any caps and the like o' that to set her off!' said a jolly Irishman who stood by; and with such consolation the good-looking lady was obliged to be content, though she did groan when she saw them hold the band-box up edgeways.
                
               Deep sandy roads, and not very easy coaches, to Glen's Falls-celebrated, as the driver informed his passengers, for having been the scene of one of Cooper's novels. It is a most romantic rocky dell, certainly; and if it had not been for the band-box, Mrs. Pell would have been delighted with the rush of waters and the huge piles of rock on all sides, though she held Tommy fast with both hands, fearful that he might fall out of the stage into some of those awful caverns. Now a good dinner rather hastily swallowed, a further drive of some miles, and then a nice little canal-packet, with a very obliging captain, and various books and other things to make the time pass pleasantly. If it had not been for the bandbox and the purse, and the telescope, and umbrella and sunshade, and the compass, and the feather fan!!! 
               Tea at Whitehall, good beds, and a quiet house. Mrs. Pell and Tommy rose refreshed, had a capital breakfast, with a punkah over the table, moved by invisible power; but, alas! out of doors a pouring rain! A rainy day for Lake Champlain! where, if anywhere, one wants all one's eyes to see the beauty which is spread out so lavishly on every side. The Green Mountains on one hand and the Adirondacks on the other; the rich, verdant, deeply indented shores, with their endless variety of foliage, and their dottings of neat farm-houses, peeping out from quiet 'nooks of greenery;' rocky islets, where we could easily build inaccessible fortresses if we had refractory kings and queens to manage; and over all, such skies as belong only to mountain scenery-all these was our unlacky friend compelled to forego, and sit quietly thinking over her trials and losses, watching the drops as they rather poured than trickled down the glass that enclosed Captain--'s ample deck. 
                
               Presently she became aware that Tommy had quitted her side. She called him-no answer. She sought him in the cabin-all over the wide deck-in the dining-room-in the forecastle-in the engine! She asked the waiters-she asked the sailors-she asked every passenger singly-and by this time her questionings became frantic. At last she rushed to the captain's office and demanded her child. 'He is gone! drowned! killed! crushed in the machinery!' 
               'Impossible, my dear madam! Don't be alarmed; I'll have him found in a moment.' 
               But Mrs. Pell had renounced all hope, when Tommy came coolly along, quite unconscious of the cause of his mother's disturbance. He had taken a fancy to sit on the promenade deck in the pouring rain, by way of variety, and could not understand why his mamma should cry so about nothing. She, however, was determined to avoid this trouble at least; and she had just tied Tommy securely to one of the settees in the ladies' cabin, when the cabin-maid informed her that the young gentleman could not stay there. 
               'Why not, pray?' 
               The prim dame pointed to the announcement upon the door-'Gentlemen not permitted;' and Mrs. Pell found she must either be separated from her son, or sit on the deck, which the rain made very chilly, although it was partly enclosed. She chose the latter, of course; and while there fell into a very natural reverie-one in which many other ladies have indulged, we will venture to say, as to why cabin-maids are tolerated in steamboats? They are never of any possible use, unless it be to ascertain what amount of interference and constraint lady passengers can be induced to bear without complaint. Most of them seem to suppose the ladies are there upon sufferance, admitted gratis, and liable to be discharged upon any transgression of what they choose to term 'the rules.' It is very certain that the same amount of impertinence attempted where gentlemen are concerned would not be tolerated for a moment, even among good-natured Yankees, who will bear more than any other people in the world. We should vote for leaving these supernumeraries on shore, and we are sure Mrs. Pell would join us, after her experience in some of the best steamboats with some of the best captains in the United States. 
               But Burlington draws near. There is Camel's Hump, far in the misty distance, with his gigantic brethren reposing about him, all more or less veiled in clouds, though now the slant beams of the setting sun begin to illuminate some eastward eminences. The Adirondacks, too, seem to smile through tears, as the golden rays touch their varied summits, while the lake is like a sheet of pure amethyst, and the bending trees along its brink drop living pearls into its bosom. There is an island walled with rock; and there is one that looks as if a shepherd's hat had been thrown down upon the water and left to petrify-its round crown and broad brim lying fairly developed, with scarce a fringe of green to enliven its proper hue of gray. 
               Mrs. Pell was near her journey's end. She had encountered many trials, but they would soon be more than compensated. She would soon see her rich niece and her happy nephew. She had 'had losses, to be sure, but they were almost forgotten as she gazed upon the beautiful amphitheatre of hills in which this prettiest of towns lies bosomed, and thought of the stately dwelling into which she was soon to be ushered, and the honour and glory of having one of the family 'marry rich!' 
               'Drive to Mr. Pitney's-Putnam Pitney's!' said Mrs. Pell, with a somewhat swelling air, as the last bandbox (the pancake one) was placed on the top of the baggage like a sort of lid or shelter from the weather. 
               The driver nodded, and, after some ascent and many windings, at last stopped before a neat suburban cottage, where a young woman was sweeping the water off the front step. 
               'This is not the place! Is this Mr. Pitney's?' 
               'Yes ma'am,' said the damsel. 
               'What! Putnam Pitney's' 
               'Yes, ma'am.' 
               'Prudent young man!' said Mrs. Pell to herself, as she alighted and walked into the narrow entry. 'Is Mr. Pitney at home? Call him, if you please, and say that his aunt, Mrs. Pell, from New York, is here." 
               'What! is this Aunt Pell? Oh, dear aunty, how happy I am to see you!' said the maid, throwing down the broom and kissing Mrs. Pell very affectionately. 'And you've come so far to see us-and brought this dear little boy, too! Sit down in the rocking-chair, and I'll call Putnam in a moment.' 
               And so saying the rich niece ran off into the garden, whence she soon brought her husband, who had been hoeing carrots, and did not wait to put on his coat. 
               Mrs. Pell could hardly speak to him. Was this all? Had she come all this way, and encountered all these dangers and losses, just to see a loving young couple beginning the world in a small way, and living in as primitive a style as did their progenitors who first settled the Green Mountains? What could it mean? 
               Tea was over, and the rocking-chair carried out upon a piazza that looked towards the rich purple west, and Mrs. Pell and her nephew, and his bright, cheerful young wife, sat quietly down to talk over all sorts of things, while Tommy amused himself by trying to stick his uncle's rake through a toad that had come out to enjoy the fine evening after the rain. 
               'I have bought this house, aunty,' said Mr. Putnam Pitney, in the course of conversation, 'and here Mary and I mean to live till we're able to afford a better; and when that will be, nobody can tell-for a poor young lawyer gets along but slowly.' 
               'But, Putnam,' began Mrs. Pell-for the question could be restrained no longer-'I thought you had married rich?' 
               'Rich? Ah, Mary's riches will hardly make us proud, whatever they may do for our great-grandchildren. She has some thousand acres of western land, on which there are large taxes to pay, while it has never yielded a dollar's income. It will take all we can save to keep it from the hammer at the annual tax sales." 
               So, here was a break-down of poor Mrs. Pell's airy castles! Yet she bore the disappointment with wonderful equanimity, so charmed was she with her new niece, with the enchanting scenery, and with the agreeable society to which her nephew introduced her. She made a month's visit, during which time Tommy had torn all his clothes to pieces, lost his hat, and narrowly missed breaking his neck by falling out of the hay loft. Mrs. Pell, not forgetful of the perils of the way, thought of writing to the captain that he must come for her if he ever expected to see her again, when Mr. Putnam Pitney decided to treat his wife to a sight of the great city. 
               Mrs. Pell had become entirely reconciled to her disappointment, learned to love Mary dearly, thought a fortune would not make the young people any happier, and at last took leave of Burlington with regret; and as the steamer once more bore her from the wharf, cast a look of lingering and reluctant farewell at the beautiful village and the noble back ground of mountains, and watched till the latest moment the silver dome of the college, which gleamed ever and anon upon the eye, after miles of hill and forest had been passed. 
               We have only to add that the journey home was prosperous; that our traveller found the missing parcel, and that she considers herself at present in a condition to give advice to any lady who contemplates a solitary tour anywhere within the bounds of these United States. 
             
             
                
               SENSE, COMMON AND UNCOMMON. 
                
                  I. 
                  IF we were about setting out upon a long and somewhat perilous journey-one that would tax all our powers, and in which many a traveller had been sore bested-the most obvious dictate of prudence would be to procure maps, charts, guide-books, records of former voyages, and whatever might in any way promise benefit from the attempts-successful or otherwise-of those who had gone before. We could not be satisfied with mere directions and cautions from friends at home; their knowledge might be traditional, or imperfect, or obsolete. The freshest intelligence, brought by clear-sighted observers, must be ours, that we might proceed on our way in full strength and courage, with leisure to enjoy the journey, and no occasion for painful care or solicitude. 
                  It is on this principle, we cannot doubt, that many young ladies spend so large a portion of their time after leaving school, in the study of those instructive and veracious histories of the world and its doings, called Novels. Feeling the importance of a thorough and impartial survey of the delicate ground on which they are about to enter, they apply themselves assiduously to these results of reflective wisdom and experience, and store their various memories with cases and precedents, maxims and views, calculated to render that mortal career which has sometimes been compared to a labyrinth, perfectly plain and easy to the simplest comprehension. What days of application and nights of vigil do these fair debtantes devote to study, and such is their zeal that not a complaint is heard. 
                  One of these devotees to duty-called Constantia for the love of some heroine whose especial whereabout in the land of fiction the historian is unable to point out-was bred in a great city, in the choice atmosphere of a fashionable boarding-house, where her pretty little face and gentle manners made her much a favourite, especially with the young gentlemen, who, escaped from stores and offices down-town, passed a good many evenings in the great drawing-room, lounging on sofa and ottoman, or leaning over the veteran piano, then and there thrilling to the touch of young ladies, 'whose curls descending swept their youthful breasts, 'while the entire atmosphere breathed Cologne and Patchouly. Constantia was a pretty girl, and a good girl too, as well as uncommonly sensible, and her knowledge of life could hardly be surpassed, for there was not a novel of the day that she had not read, spite of double columns and dingy paper. She knew perfectly well how very apt young ladies of amiable character are to be run away with against their wills, and all the snares laid for heiresses-not of vile pelf, but of the unpurchasable treasures of rosy lips and bright eyes. Her mother, a graduate of the same school, was so full of sage cautions to her, moulded especially on the high reputation which her daughter enjoyed of being so very sensible, that it was rather a disappointment to Constantia when she found herself seventeen without a single attempt at abduction, or even a proposal to run away. Far from exulting in such ignoble quiet and safety, she looked scrutinizingly into the glass to ascertain whether she might not have over-rated her charms. But, no! There they all were, fresh as ever; real and unmistakable as ugliness or ill-nature; and the compliments of her friends and admirers upon her sense, had in no respect fallen off. What could be the reason of such neglect? Obviously the tame and prosaic character of the society in which she lived. What in the way of romance could be expected of young lawyers, physicians, and merchants, anxious only to get business and settle down as comfortable citizens? It began to be fearfully evident that poor Constantia, in spite of her charms, was doomed to be asked and married, in the common way, with cake and bridesmaids, and not a heart quake or a speck of anguish about the matter. 
                  We dare not say that this conviction, mortifying as it was, wore upon our young friend alarmingly. Her fair cheeks lost none of their roundness; her eye danced about and sparkled, as it could not help doing, at whatever was pretty or funny; and when sly compliments were launched at her by the commonplace young gentlemen in white cravats, who had quite a trick of lounging about her in the evening conversazione, quick-flitting dimples rippled about her rosy mouth, and little blushes came and went, not at all after the manner of a pining heroine. 'Our life is twofold;' and while the Constantia of the ideal world was impatient and nearly discouraged at so much happiness, the Constantia of ours was as gay and light-hearted as health and compliments could make her, the only outward effect of her secret expectations being a perfect immunity from love, so far as the habitus of the fashionable boarding-house were concerned. 
                  So wore along the smooth days, leaving little trace on face or mind of our heroine, until destiny (as we speak) brought to town for a few weeks a heroic-looking specimen of that boundless region called the West; a young man who might have been supposed a patron of every Tricopherous and Patho-Capiline in the country, so luxuriant were his dark locks, his shadowy beard and his somewhat exuberant moustache. Besides these advantages, he was at least six feet high, and carried himself with an erect yet careless grace that was very bewitching; and his whole air was that of a man of action rather than of study. He spoke in a clear, cheerful voice, and now and then said a gallant thing in a modest way, which the young ladies felt to be more respectful than the down-right compliments with which their more hacknied beaux expected to propitiate them. 
                  This was the nearest approach to the expected hero that Constantia had yet encountered, and strange to say, of all the arrows launched at the new-corner, hers was the very one of all others to take effect. Occupied as was Mr. Dailey-busy from morning till night, and coming to tea so tired, that he declared he was not fit company for anybody-he always contrived to make himself very agreeable in the evening, and in no instance could he be detected in the least flagging of the spirits or forgetfulness of the duties of the moment. But while all voted him charming, it soon became evident enough who it was that he felt to be so; and before anybody suspected it, and while the fair chosen one was herself still in the first confusion, flutter and doubt of the reality of his preference, he had asked her of her mamma, and laid siege to her pretty little self with an ardor and business-like determination quite in keeping with all that he had been able to manifest of his character. 
                  'It is providential!' said the mamma, as Constantia, half smiles half tears, consulted her on this momentous matter. And with this she dismissed all prudential concern as to the past of her future son-in-law. To be sure he was his own voucher; for there are people to whom nature is so truly bounteous that doors and hearts fly open at their approach, and we feel neither keys nor cautions to be necessary where they are concerned. Mr. Dailey told his own story, and when he did this, full belief was natural. He gave references to his far off home, and spoke of ample means of living; but somehow nobody thought it worth while to take any trouble about things so obvious; and after a six weeks acquaintance, our heroine and her chosen, with youth and beauty, and good spirits and amiable tempers secured to them, if nothing else, departed for the West, where Constantia's mamma was to visit them as soon as the fashionable touring season should arrive. 
                
                
                  II. 
                  Whether any mortal mixture of earth's mould ever came up to a novel-reading young lady's ideal of a lover, may perhaps be questioned; so we shall only say that Constantia's admiration of Mr. Dailey suffered no perceptible diminution when she saw him in the character of a most gallant and cheerful travelling-companion, so well-acquainted with all the exigencies of such a position, that no accident ever took him unawares, and no fatigue ever vanquished his good humour. Perhaps it was hardly to be dreaded that a bridegroom should become cross on his wedding-tour, though we believe such things have happened, there being plenty of objects beside the lady on whom to vent their pent-up irritation. But Mr. Dailey had such a fascinating bonhommie about him; took everything so gaily, and, in short, showed so much of the light-hearted kindliness of a genuine Westerner, that his bride, accustomed to more constrained and guarded manners, was delighted with his bold, manly air, and grew every day more in love with her hero. All that had been left unsaid, through lack of time, during the short courtship, was now brought forward and discussed; Constantia's goodness and her mother's kind confidence in trusting a stranger; the chances of some disappointment consequent upon an introduction to the dozens of new relations who were anxiously expecting the bride from the great city; the probability of Constantia's liking her new home-her new mother-a country life-all these were again and again talked over, among other matters, so that the time seemed very short, and passed so pleasantly, that our bride almost dreaded the termination of the journey, although she had no fears for her new position except those which grew out of a modest estimate of her own claims, and some dread of the critical judgment of the friends whom she was about to see for the first time. 
                  'I cannot help feeling a little anxious,' said Mr. Dailey, 'lest you should be disappointed, at first at least. Your views and habits certainly differ a good deal from those of my family; and though there will doubtless be a sufficient assimilation in time, you are very likely to be shocked at many things you will see and hear. My mother is a plain old lady; has lived all her life on a farm; and although she has good sense and great kindness of heart, her manners are simple in the extreme, and her education no better than that of Western women of her age generally.' 
                  'O I know I shall love her if she will let me,' said Constantia; 'it is so easy for me to love good people.' 
                  'My mother is warm-hearted-rather impetuous,' was the reply; 'her love for me is unbounded, and her over-estimate of my character and abilities in proportion. How this may operate upon her appreciation of my wife, I don't know; but you will have patience, I know, even if she should think no woman on earth could be good enough for me, because, by-and-bye you will show her that somebody can be more than that.' 
                  'I will take care not to expect too warm a reception,' said Constantia, 'and to bear patiently any looks of disappointment, such as will be very natural at first. But, Edward, when are we to go into our own house? Will it take long to make it ready?' 
                  'I hope not. I have sent some directions, but I preferred that all should be arranged to suit your taste, which I could hardly hope my sisters would succeed in. They would gladly have assumed the necessary trouble and responsibility, but feared that New York bred eyes would discover mortifying errors. So it is left entirely to yourself to decide what shall be the style of your home, which will have some rural charms, for the house I have chosen is a little out of town, so as to be nearer my mother's, which is almost in the woods, on a large farm managed by my elder brother, who is a bachelor.' 
                  'O, that will be delightful! Do they have cows, and sheep, and pretty little lambs there? and can they hear the wolves' howl at night?' 
                  'I can't answer for the wolves,' said Dailey, laughing, 'but the other matters are all right. You can learn to make butter, if you like.' 
                  'I shall learn to spin, certainly,' said the bride, with a resolute air; 'I have seen a beautiful picture of a lady sitting in the midst of her maids, spinning on a little ebony wheel inlaid with ivory, and her lord, just returned from the wars, coming in, delighted to find her so well employed.' 
                  'My wars are in court, dearest, and our western wheels are not of ebony and ivory; but you will find ways and means of making pretty pictures out of such material as we shall have, I don't doubt. But I forewarn you that you will be shocked at our plainness. At L--,' continued Mr. Dailey, 'we shall be within less than half a day's travel of our home. I think it will be well to remain there to-night, that you may recruit a little after the fatigue of so long a journey; and to-morrow we can easily reach mother's in time for her early dinner.' 
                  To this Constantia gladly consented; for her trepidation at the idea of a first appearance had not been lessened by Dailey's account of the aspect of things at home. 'I will be as plain as themselves,' she thought; 'and of all things take care that they do not fancy me proud and "stuck up," which Edward says is a mortal offence at the West. I shall soon learn, I dare say. I staid a fortnight, last summer, at Nyack, and know very well what country people are.' 
                
                
                  III. 
                  A country tavern-bare floors-no parlour without a bed in the corner-a table which required a chip under one foot to make it stand steady-very fat ham, the only viand to be had--warm milk yeast bread-an atmosphere of old tobacco smoke-no spring water that did not taste of sulphur. Who that has travelled much in the West, has not, now and then, in out-of-the-way places, found all these things? 
                  Our bride, weary and almost dispirited, had no better fortune. 
                   
                  'Try an egg, love,' said Dailey anxiously; 'eggs, at least, are better here than in New York.' 
                  Constantia could not help feeling this a gentle reproach, and she really made an effort to swallow something, lest her husband should feel hurt. 
                  'I believe I am too tired to feel hungry,' she said; 'I am really fit for nothing.' 
                  'You shall lie on the sofa, and I will read to you,' said Mr. Dailey, kindly. 
                  'We have read all our books.' 
                  'O, I dare say we can find something.' 
                  As he was leaving the room on this rather hopeless errand, he was met with the intelligence that two men wished to see him below. 
                  'How vexatious!' he exclaimed; 'I was in hopes to have reached home before any body pounced upon me. But I am so well known in this neighbourhood, that somebody has found me out.' 
                  'Found you out,' said Constantia. 
                  'Yes! some rascal, on a business matter, I don't doubt. But have patience, dear; I will get rid of these fellows as soon as possible, and we will have a nice quiet evening.' 
                  And he ran off, gaily as usual. 
                  The short time seemed very long to Constantia. What could it be? Vexation and curiosity combined, were turned by utter weariness into a presentiment of evil. The thought, 'What can it be?' recurred so often that her mind seemed sore with it. 
                  Edward returned-but not with comfort. He looked a good deal perturbed, for him. 
                   
                  'I shall be obliged to leave you awhile, love,' he said, with an effort at his natural cheerful tone. 
                  'Leave me, Edward!' 
                  'Only for a short time, I hope. The business on which these men came cannot be deferred, and I have not a moment for explanation. Here is a tolerable sofa, and I will try to send you some books. Perhaps you can sleep. Don't be low-spirited, (seeing tears that would not be kept down;) I will tell you all about it when I get back, and we'll have our quiet evening yet. See what a glorious sunset we're going to have! Good-bye! I'll come or send to you very soon!' And the young husband ran off, leaving his wife half-vexed, half-frightened, at being left alone in this strange sort of way. Soon after the woman of the house brought in some tattered volumes, and Constantia tried in vain to interest herself in their dingy pages. An hour wore on-no Edward blest her weary eyes. Again she opened one of the books, and read with fascinated attention, that melancholy tale, 'The Forgers;' and now the heart of the young bride found relief in tears, called forth by sympathy for the desolate survivor of husband and son. Perhaps she was not sorry for an excuse for tears, for she had become gloomy and despondent as the sun neared the western horizon. 'Yet why this weakness?' she asked herself; 'necessity alone could have induced Edward to leave me thus; and when he returns I shall be ashamed to own how like a silly girl I have felt.' 
                
                
                  IV. 
                  A scrap of paper was brought her, containing a line or two in pencil from her husband, telling her that he found himself prevented vented from returning as soon as he had hoped, but that he would come or send before dark. 
                  Still further puzzled, Constantia looked at her watch-it wanted a quarter of six. To remain in this painful uncertainty till dark, seemed an age of cruel suspense. She thought of a duel; only because she could think of nothing else; for at a calmer moment she would have been sure that Edward was no duelist. Seeking the master of the house, she inquired whether he knew the person with whom Mr. Dailey had left the house. Then recollecting the impropriety of such a question, she added that she had become uneasy at his stay. The man hesitated a moment, and then said: 
                  'Squire Montgomery came for him in his carriage, ma'am, and I see Grabbins get in after 'em.' 
                  'And pray, who is Grabbins?' she inquired. 
                  'The constable, ma'am.' 
                  'Oh! it is professional business, then,' said Constantia, as she dismissed the man; and she endeavoured, as she repeated this to herself, to calm the flutter which still agitated her nerves. But every moment grew less and less supportable; and when the last ray of the setting sun had disappeared, she took her station on the piazza upon which the room opened, hoping thence sooner to be aware of the return of her husband. As she cast her eyes below, a plain light wagon drove up to the door, and a rough-looking man asked if there was a young woman there. 'Her husband has sent for her,' he added, giving his whip an impatient crack, while he awaited the answer to his question. 
                  'Yes, yes!' exclaimed Constantia, without a moment's reflection; 'I will be ready in a moment.' 
                  'Oh! you'm the one, be ye!' said the man, looking up; 'wal! be a joggin', for it's gettin' late.' 
                   
                  And in an instant the bride appeared below, equipped for a drive. 
                  'But have you no note or letter for me?' she said, before she descended the steps. 
                  The man felt in his pockets, took off his hat, and after extracting therefrom a dirty cotton handkerchief, and exploring the crown with a reflective air, replied: 
                  'Wal! I had a kind of a billet, but I must ha' dropt it out of my hat. But never mind, I guess we'll find it as we go back, for there a'nt many passers on that road.' 
                  With this comfort Constantia resolved to content herself, and allowing the stranger to help her into the wagon, they drove off, the poor bride's heart misgiving her sadly, yet the thought of rejoining her husband putting down all less agreeable anticipations. 
                  No time was lost on the way. The wagon banged over the new-made forest-road at so furious a rate, that Constantia begged her escort to drive more moderately, and, when he complied, she took the opportunity to ask to what place she was going. 
                  'Oh! not far,' he replied; 'it can't be above three miles from that tavern where you put up.' 
                  'And shall I find Mr. Dailey there?' 
                  'Find who?' 
                  'My husband, Mr. Edward Dailey,' said the perplexed Constantia. 
                  'Wal! I don't know; Ned'll be there if he can, I dare say; but he's obleeged to steer pretty close just now.' 
                  Then, in answer to Constantia's look of speechless, terrified surprise, he added: 
                  'I see he hasn't told you as much as he'd ought to; but never mind! this may blow over; we've weathered many as black-looking a squall as this.' 
                  Trembling and aghast-her confidence in her beloved Edward still firm, yet a sense of danger and distress weighing on her heart like a millstone-the now wretched bride attempted to extract more definite information from her conductor, who, though rough, was far from seeming devoid of feeling. But he declined entering into the particulars. 
                  'I must leave Ned to tell his own story,' he said; 'he's played gentleman so long, that he's mighty uppish, and I don't want to have a quarrel with him. It's pretty dangerous, as more than one can tell.' 
                  As he spoke, he turned from the travelled road, and struck into a devious path, which led into the depths of the wood. So thickly were the branches interlaced above, that daylight was almost entirely excluded; and here a new fear seized poor Constantia. She thought of robbery and murder, and all those accumulated horrors which are apt to present themselves to the imaginations of novel-reading young ladies. But ere she could give voice to her new fears, her companion drew up before a small house which she had scarcely observed, and which seemed to have no cleared land near it, except a small garden, and a court-yard enclosed by a picket-fence. Here, leaning over a little gate in front, stood a portly, red-faced woman, who hailed Constantia's driver with, 'Hilloa, Jerry! is that you?' 
                  'I guess so!' was Jerry's reply; 'and here's Ned's gal.' 
                  'Why do tell!' said the old woman; 'well, I'm glad you're come, for all we're in trouble. It's plaguey lonesome here!' 
                  Constantia sat paralyzed. Could that coarse, vulgar being be the mother whom she was to love-first for Edward's sake, and then for her own? Could this diminutive dwelling be that which her husband had represented as the pleasant home of his boyhood? Impossible! 
                  'I believe-I think there must be some mistake-' she faltered out; 'this is not Mr. Dailey's mother-' 
                  'Mr. Dailey,' said the old woman, with a knowing look at the man; 'why, yes I be-a'nt I, Jerry? Come along in; tea's all ready, though if I'd a known you'd been a coming, I might ha' slicked up a little more.' 
                  'I see Ned down yonder,' said Jerry, pointing with his thumb over his shoulder, as he prepared to assist the trembling girl from the wagon, 'and he told me I was to go to the tavern after her.' 
                  'And where's your trunk?' asked the old woman. 
                  'I left the baggage in charge of the landlord,' Constantia replied. 'I did not know-' 
                  'That's a pretty go!' said the old woman, with another look of intelligence at Jerry. 'I should ha' thought Ned might have learnt you better than that. You'll never see that again, I can tell ye, and it 'll be well if that's the worst of it. I'll warrant you had some real handsome things too; for Ned's always open-handed when he's got anything.' 
                  'Light come, light go,' muttered Jerry, as the old lady went to the fire to replenish her tea-pot. 
                  The heart-stricken bride, with a death-sickness at her heart, sat gazing, first at one and then at the other of these speakers, with a conviction of their utter vileness, and a wild fear, often indignantly repelled, yet gradually gaining ground in her mind, that her own Edward must indeed be of their crew. Then she would strive to collect her scattered senses; to recall the proofs of her husband's refined education, and highly delicate and sensitive mind; the various testimonies to his excellent reputation at home, which had come to her knowledge during their brief acquaintance; and then his tenderness-the almost worshipping fondness with which he had dwelt on the anticipation of introducing his fair prize to his mother and her friends. Had he deceived her? If he had, it was love alone which prompted the wrong. To acknowledge poverty like this, would have rendered their union impossible. But then that horribly vulgar woman and her associate, between whom there seemed so familiar an understanding! 'Oh! it can never, never be! There is some horrid mistake, after all!' 
                  And, starting up, she entreated Jerry to drive her back to the hotel-she offered him any price he should demand-she wept-she prayed. Jerry and the fat woman laughed immoderately. 
                  'Why, now, you do act real silly!' said the latter. 'I told ye he would come as soon as he could; but he darsent come till it's darker than it is now. So make yourself easy, and behave like a gal of sense. There wont nobody hurt ye.' 
                  'But I am convinced there is some mistake, and I must go. I shall set out on foot,' said Constantia wildly, and darted from the door. 
                  The couple made no effort to detain her; but the next moment a shriek from the unhappy girl called them to the gate. They found her extended lifeless on the ground, a white silk handkerchief faintly grasped in both hands. 
                  'Well, this beats all," said the old woman. 'Ned said she was city-bred, and very delicate-like, but if she's a going to act like this here, the house'll be too hot to hold her and me together a great while. Well, I s'pose we must carry her in, for Ned'll swear like anything if he comes here and finds her lying on the damp ground.' 
                   
                  So saying, with Jerry's aid, Constantia was borne to an inner room, laid on a bed, and brought to her recollection by the reviving odour of burnt feathers, held sufficiently near her nose. 
                  When she opened her eyes, it was to look round, and then fall into a fit of the most immoderate weeping, and inquire for the handkerchief. 
                  'Here it is,' said the old woman, 'and I should think you'd want half a dozen on'em if you're a going to cry that way.' 
                  'This is my husband's handkerchief,' said Constantia. 
                  'Like enough,' said the agreeable mother-in-law; 'I don't doubt he's got a plenty of all sorts of good clothes while he's been gone.' 
                  The poor girl closed her eyes in despair. She had found the handkerchief only a few paces from the gate, and recognized it at once as the one her husband had used that day. And to make the sad assurance doubly sure, she could distinguish by the twilight his initials in the corner. It was in vain longer to doubt the identity of her Edward with the 'Ned' of the odious woman, and the last ray of hope gave way to the intolerable certainty. But with despair came the appearance of calm at least; and she remained perfectly quiet while the hostess proceeded to recount the expense and trouble which had been bestowed upon the room she then occupied in order to fit it for her reception. The floor was carpeted, and the bed curtained; and the few articles which found room within the narrow walls were new, and of better quality than those in the outer apartment. Of these the whole history and prices were set forth in many words, and the recital concluded with the triumphant question, 
                  'There! aint it fit for any lady in the land?' She paused for a reply, and Constantia tried to say, 'Oh! certainly!' and with this faint encouragement the oratress proceeded. 
                   
                  "Oh! Ned knows a thing or two? He ha'n't been all over the States for nothing! He knows how to do things like a gentleman! You needn't ha' been so down-hearted at seeing things look kind o' poor like. We don't put everything on the outside, I can tell ye! Then getting up and cautiously locking the door, she drew from under the bed an elegant travelling case, well guarded with plates and rivets on every side, and unlocking its intricate enclosures, she displayed to Constantia's bewildered eyes several large packages of new bank notes. 
                  'There! it isn't every bride that can have the handling of such stuff as that! And there's a sight of it real, too! Ned's been a travellin' this two months, and he's put off a good deal. He does the most of that, because he's so much of a gentleman that nobody ever suspects him where he aint knowed. He always takes some great name or other, and I s'pose when he was in York he called himself Squire Dailey.' 
                  Constantia might have hoped that this swindling, forging miscreant had only assumed her husband's name,-but then the handkerchief! she knew too well, even without the initials, and her mind remained a chaos of doubt and misery, where no connected train of thought could find place. Every moment her opinion varied. Now hope-now despair-now love-now indignant detestation swayed her. Could this be the evening of that day whose morning and noon had been so blessed? Was she to share the fortunes of a felon, and become the companion of his guilty associates? And yet could she endure the idea of forsaking the man to whom she had willingly given her affections, and for whom she felt that she could even at that moment yield up her life? Either alternative seemed insupportable, and she groaned bitterly in the anguish of her heart. 
                  The old woman was about to resume her remonstrances, when the sound of a step entering the outer room called her from the bedside. Constantia followed her to the door, which was left ajar, and listened eagerly. It was Jerry. 
                  'Where's Ned?' the old woman asked. 'I wish he'd come and look after this fine lady of his'n; she takes on like everything.' 
                  'Ned's nabbed,' was the laconic reply. 
                  "You don't?" 
                  'Yes. I must bury the boxes, for it's like enough they'll be here again. They were off the scent, but the foolish fellow went to look after his wife; he'd got a notion that I was shamming him when I told him she was here, and so he fell into the trap. He's gone now, sure enough!' 
                  The sound of Constantia's fall, as she sank under this dreadful intelligence, drew their attention to the wretched inmate. They ran to raise her, and even the hardened natures of these guilty creatures, familiar as they were with crime and its attendant miseries, melted into pity for the hapless girl who, they plainly saw, had only now discovered herself to be the wife of a felon. They made some rough attempts to console her, but she recovered her senses once more only to weep and moan in tones which must have touched any human heart. 
                  'Go, Jerry!' said the woman; 'be about what you've got to do! I'll do what I can for her, poor thing!' As Jerry disappeared, the sound of wheels became audible in the distance. 
                  'Yes drive!' muttered the woman, turning to listen; 'ye're mighty chirk when ye're goin' to get anybody into trouble.' Then to Constantia, trying at the same time to raise her face from the pillow where she had buried it. 
                  'Look up, dear! keep a good heart; he may get off yet, and whether or no, you'll come to no harm, for anybody may see you're as innocent as a baby.' 
                
                
                  V. 
                  Hark! a hurrried sound of many steps entering the outward room. 
                  'Where is she! Constantia! Constantia!' exclaimed a voice that would have roused the poor girl from any stupor but that of death, and the next moment she was clasped in her husband's arms. 
                  'Constantia, my love, what does all this mean?' was Dailey's inquiry, as soon as he could command himself sufficiently, for the dishevelled and wretched appearance of his wife struck him to the heart. 
                  'Ah! what indeed, Edward?' she said, faintly. 'Is it all a dreadful dream, or are you-are you--.' She could not proceed. Sighs and tears choked her voice, and she sank, sobbing on the beloved bosom. 
                  'Can it be possible, my dearest girl, that you have allowed yourself to be made so wretched by a mere inadvertence? I was requested so urgently to lend my aid in securing a notorious counterfeiter, who had been tracked to his haunt in this house, that I consented without hesitation, under the expectation that an hour or less would accomplish the desired end; and I did not dare to tell you my errand, because I knew you would torment yourself with fears for my safety. The many doublings and windings of the experienced scoundrel have kept us riding through this wood ever since. It is easy to explain my absence; not so easy to forgive the thoughtlessness which has caused you such cruel distress. But you will own that my feelings on inquiring for you at the inn may have been some punishment at least!' 
                  'Ah! I see,' said Constantia, beginning to understand the cause of her perplexities; 'it was my own fault, after all! How could I allow my impatience to blind me so far! I might have known you would not send for me in that way. I have read too many novels, Edward;' and smiles, shining through the tears which still flowed plentifully, once more lighted the sweet face of Constantia, and cheered the heart of her husband. 
                  'Come, I will tell you all about it as we return,' said Dailey 'My mother, with a whole party of friends, has come over to L--, to meet you, and they will be anxious until we return, although we had some intelligence of your whereabout from the people of the tavern, who knew your amiable driver, and ought to have interfered to prevent his carrying you off. You will not be very ready to run away from me again, I think!' 
                  To think that so much study of life beforehand should have produced such very ludicrous results! We need not say that the study of living men and women, and plain, common things, proved much more profitable to our fair bride under her husband's tuition. 
                  Perhaps severe judges may say that this was far better than Constantia deserved, for marrying after six weeks' acquaintance. We can only reply that there are some people who are their own letters of recommendation so unmistakeably, that even in this wicked world it is impossible to doubt them. 
                  Still, we are far from desiring to establish a precedent. 
                
             
             
                
               SINECURES; OR A COUNTRY MINISTER'S DAY. 
               THE REVEREND SYDNEY SMITH makes himself exceedingly merry with the claims which he declares to be habitual among the clergy of his country, to the character of persecuted saints-members of the church militant-called to suffer for the faith. He says such expressions had always been very puzzling to him, until he recollected that no fewer than eight hundred clergymen of the Church of England, had, within a few years, been prosecuted for non-residence. So that the interpretation seemed to be that the reverend gentlemen had made a slight mistake between being persecuted for doing their duty, and being prosecuted for not doing it. 
               This spark from the anvil of the doughty old Smith, who has given such trip-hammer blows to our sins of repudiation, brought to mind a story which was told in my hearing once, by a friend who remembers everything that has been said and done in New England since Miles Standish's time-an old friend of course. Not a name-not a date-not a place of residence-not a family connection-no root or branch of tree genealogical, is ever wanting in these narratives. And, what is singular, even that rare ingredient, truth, the desideratum in a reminisence, is always present to give zest to the whole, so that one need never to be afraid to give, suo periculo, any of Miss-'s stories, even in presence of an ecclesiastical court. 
               The little story I am about to tell is at fourth-hand, yet none the less worthy of credence. It refers to the only sinecure known to New England, and I shall take leave to call it 
                
                  A COUNTRY MINISTER'S DAY. 
                  'When my brother E. was a little boy,' said Miss --, 'his health was delicate, and he was sent into the country to school, and there boarded at a great old farm-house-one in the real old New England style, of which few specimens now remain. Here, in the first cold weather of autumn, the family congregated about the kitchen fire, so as not to disturb the flower-pots which still ornamented the hearth of the keeping-room. The young student from Boston was accommodated, on one side of the fire, with a little stand, on which was placed a tall iron candlestick, bearing a dipt candle with a wick an inch long, for the furtherance of his studies. Not being much inspired by the book under these circumstances, E. was wont to spend at least a part of his time in listening to the talk of an ancient dame who sat, with a perennial fountain of knitting-work, in a high-backed chair on the opposite side of the fire, bestowing various hints and cautions upon a young clergyman lately ordained, and hoping he would be "kerried through" all the work that was before him in the ministry of that parish. 
                  'The young clergyman, city-bred, and only a guest at the farm-house, listened with deference, and replied very satisfactorily to most of the old lady's remarks; but he could not be made to understand very clearly in what particulars he was likely to find his position more than usually difficult. He did not seem to doubt that he should be "kerried through," though he said so very modestly. 
                  '"Humph!" said the old lady, taking a spare knitting-needle from her work, and passing it gently under her cap with a reflective air, "did you ever hear about parson Thacher's day, Mr. Z--? My mother could remember Parson Thacher, though he died in 1727. He was a man that had been to school, and then to college in this country; and that wasn't enough, but he must be sent to the old country (it was the custom in them days); yes, to Leyden, where he studied for the ministry, and not only that, but learned medicine and surgery, and not content with that, studied law besides." 
                  'Mr. Z-- began to open his eyes at this enumeration of his predecessor's accomplishments. 
                  '"Yes," continued the good lady, "and besides, he was a good mechanic, so that he could use almost any tool. Well, he came back, and settled in this town, and married Theodosia F., and she made him a good wife, and they lived very comfortably in their plain way." 
                  '"But," said the young clergyman, who, being fresh from college, was the least in the world priggish, "I can scarcely see how Mr. Thacher's European acquirements were necessary to fit him for such a position." 
                  '"Humph!" said the old lady again. "Stay till I tell you my story. One Monday morning, Parson Thacher said to his wife, 'I've engaged to go to D-- to preach an ordination sermon on Wednesday, and I must set out to-morrow; so this day I must have entirely for my study, and you must not allow me to be interrupted for anything short of a case of life or death.'" So Mrs. Thacher promised, and the good parson went thoughtfully up stairs to prepare his sermon. He was scarcely seated when a woman of the neighbourhood came in, almost breathless, anxiously inquiring for Mr. Thacher. 
                  '"'He is in his study, and cannot be disturbed on any account.' 
                  '"'Oh, dear!' says the poor woman; 'I don't know what I shall do, then, for our best cow's very sick, and nobody can't do nothing to help her. We've had Loren, the cow-doctor, and he can't tell what's the matter with her. What will become of us if we lose her?' Now Mrs. Thacher felt so bad to think the woman must lose her cow, that she even ventured up stairs, and knocked at her husband's door. 
                  '"'Wife, you know I told you I couldn't-' 
                  '"'Yes; but poor Mrs. Trimbley-' and then she told all about the cow, and tried to persuade the parson to go at once. This, he said, was out of the question; but he would certainly call after dinner, as he was obliged to pass by Mr. Trimbley's to go to a raising, where he had promised to make a prayer. So the poor woman went home, very much comforted to think that Parson Thacher would come at all, so great was her opinion of his skill. She had hardly shut the gate, when another neighbour came in, as flurried and out of breath as Mrs. Trimbley, hardly remembering to say, 'How d'ye do?' before she cried out, 'Where is Mr. Thacher?' 
                  '"'My husband's in his study, and cannot be-' 
                  '"'Oh, run up, do, Mrs. Thacher, and tell him that Mr. Vose and Mr. Hunt have had an awful quarrel again, and Mr. Vose says he'll go right off to Boston and employ lawyer Gridley (a pretty awful threat in those days), for he won't put up with ill usage any longer.' 
                   
                  "This frightened Mrs. Thacher dreadfully, to think a quarrel should get to such a length in the neighbourhood. So, knowing her husband's powers as a peace-maker, she went up to his study-door once more. 
                  '"'What is the matter now, wife?' said Parson Thacher. 
                  '"'Oh, a dreadful quarrel,' and so forth, repeating all the threats and hard speeches, and begging her husband to interfere without delay. 
                  '"'Well, I can't possibly go now, but send word to Mr. Vose not to go to Boston till he has seen ME. I will call after dinner as I go to the raising.' 
                  "This pacified the messenger, and the parson went on with about the 'secondly' of his ordination sermon. 
                  "Presently a violent rapping, with the heavy end of a whip, was heard at the door, and a farmer from some distance off inquired for Mr. Thacher. Mrs. Thacher repeated the old excuse, but the farmer was not to be put off so easily. He insisted on the minister's wife going up and telling her husband that a man was below who must see him, being in great trouble and wanting immediate help. Upon this, with many groans, the parson at length came down, and learned that the man's axletree had broken under a load of potash-kettles, and he could do nothing without help. 
                  '"'The only thing to be done,' said Parson Thacher, 'is to make another axletree just like that. Go to my shed; there you will find a box of tools; cut down a young hickory; make your axletree; and when it's ready I'll come and help you to put it in.' 
                  "And then the parson turned to go up stairs again, but Mrs. Thacher told him the dinner was ready to take up, and would be on the table in a minute. So he sat down to dinner, and when that was finished, it was quite time to go to the raising. On the way, he remembered the sick cow. He found the poor cow in great pain, and several of the neighbours standing round looking at her. 
                  '"'Have you tried this, and this, and such another thing?' 
                  '"'Yes, but nothing does any good.' 
                  '"'And then Parson Thacher, with all his Leyden learning, went close up to the cow, and examined her all over. 
                  '"'Make beef of her while you can, Mrs. Trimbley,' said he, 'for her leg is broken, and there is nothing else to be done.' 
                  "And so he jogged on to the scene of the quarrel. There he found Mr. Vose in a towering passion, declaring he would go yet to Boston for Squire Gridley, although he had waited out of respect for the pastor. 
                  '"'What is the difficulty this time?' said Parson Thacher. 
                  '"'Oh, the old thing over again. His cows have been in my corn, and I know they were turned in on purpose, and I'm determined if it costs me every-' 
                  '"'Send for Mr. Hunt!' said Parson Thacher, and Mr. Hunt came. After some parley, and hard things said on both sides, the parson asked, 
                  '"'What may be the damage in money?' 
                  '"'About two pistareens,' says Mr. Vose. 
                  '"'Well, you won't object to paying that, neighbour Hunt?' said the pastor. 
                  '"'Why, no-' said Mr. Hunt; and after a friendly exhortation, the parson went on his way at a brisk trot, fearing to be late at the raising. Here he found all in commotion, and as soon as he appeared, his name was called out by a dozen at once. A man had fallen off the timbers and was taken up for dead. 'But here is Parson Thacher,' said they. And the parson felt the man's pulse- said he was not dead-called for bandages-drew out a lancet-bled him-and in a short time signs of life appeared. All this was soon over, and the man recovered. The raising went on; the minister made his prayer, and then set off for home, knowing he had the ordination sermon yet to finish. As he came past Hunt's, he found the man waiting at the gate for him. 
                  '"'Mr. Thacher,' says he, 'you've saved me from an ugly quarrel, and I thank you for it. My wife wants you to accept a leg of bacon of her own curing; and if you'll wait a minute, I'll step in and get it, and put it in your saddle-bags.' 
                  "So the bacon was brought, and it took some little time to get it into the saddle-bags, but sermon or no sermon such a present must not be refused. And Parson Thacher trotted on, hoping supper would be ready when he got home. He had to pass Vose's door, too, and Vose, who was busy with something in the yard, looked up and saw the minister, and stopped him, that he might thank him for his friendly office in the quarrel. While they were talking, Mr. Thacher said, 
                  '"'Mr. Vose, may I trouble you to hand me up a good big stone to put in the other side of my saddle-bags; for Mrs. Hunt has given me a leg of bacon that weighs them down unequally, and causes them to slip.' 
                  '"'Not I, indeed, Parson Thacher,' says Vose; 'I'll give you no stone; but my wife has got some nice cheeses, and if you'll wait just one minute, I'll step in and get one to balance your saddle-bags.' 
                  "The cheese was forthcoming in a moment, and stowed away, and Parson Thacher chirruped on his horse and soon saw home. But at the gate he was met by his wife with a troubled countenance. 
                   
                  '"'Here are Mr. Mitchell and Mr. Wales come to stay all night to go with you to-morrow to the ordination, and I've nothing in the world for supper but some eggs.' 
                  '"'Don't be troubled, my dear,' said Parson Thacher, and with that he pulled the ham and the cheese out of the saddle-bags, and was about to step in to welcome his friends, when the man of the axletree boarded him, seemingly a good deal out of patience. 
                  '"'Why, Parson Thacher, you've staid so long, that it is too late for me to go to-night. There was nobody else here that could help me; and so here I am.' 
                  '"'Well, never mind, neighbour; you can sleep here, and go in the morning.' 
                  '"'Ay, but I must be ready to start before day,' said the farmer, 'and the axletree has got to be mended to-night.' 
                  "Mr. Thacher saw there was nothing for it but to help the poor man after his own fashion; so he called for the lantern, put up his horse, helped the man in with the axletree, ate his supper, led the family devotions, saw all his guests safely stowed away for the night, and then sat down and finished his ordination sermon. And so ended Parson Thacher's Day." 
                  'The old lady looked at the young clergyman, but he did not speak. He wore a very sad countenance, and very soon taking up his tall iron-candlestick, went musingly to bed.' 
                  
                     Qu. What would the eight hundred persecuted clergymen, or even the Rev. Sydney himself, think of a New England sinecure of the olden time? 
                
             
             
                
               ECONOMY. 
               FEW common words, perhaps, are used in a sense more foreign to the real one than this. It is accepted to mean saving, and so exalted to a rank among the positive virtues; for the desire for accumulation is apt to sanctify all means that lead to it. We see every day the most odious penuriousness dignified, and made tolerable in the eyes of those who practice it, under the name of economy. Calling things by their right names, is one step towards reformation. 
               The real meaning of the word economy, is arrangement or distribution of expenses-disposition of things with a view to secure certain results-management or order of domestic affairs. There is, to be sure, a supplemental and conventional sense in which it may be taken to mean a 'laudable parsimony;' but it is a grave error to neglect the other and original sense, and cling to this, with the additional blunder, too, of learning to consider all parsimony as 'laudable.' 
               Considering economy, then, in its primitive and principal sense, as the adaptation of means to ends, we come inevitably to the conclusion, that much of that on which the world prides itself is false and foolish. We hear, every day, of instances of 'economy' which ought rather to be set down as the silliest waste. We may give a few specimens at random. And first among the rich. 
               What shall we say of that economy which plies the needle from morning till night, absolutely robbing the poor seamstress, in order to afford a little more expensive finery? The consequence of this sort of economy is, in the first place, a highly-cultivated and most fruitful vanity in the younger members of the family-a total neglect of all real mental cultivation, and often, in the end, a loss of health through lack of exercise, which wastes ten times the money that should have supported the needy sewing-woman, besides embittering and shortening life. No imaginary picture. 
               Again: a gentleman in easy circumstances contrives, by the aid of sedentary employment, too intense application, or too good dinners, to get some one of the thousand forms of dyspepsia. His physician, too polite to recommend any kind of manual labour, which would almost inevitably remove the difficulty, advises a good horse for a brisk daily trot. But this is too expensive a remedy, unless one were rich. So the gentleman in easy circumstances tries various remedies that do not require him to move, and gets worse and worse, until, first a journey, and then a sea-voyage, becomes necessary; and in the end, if he is so fortunate as to be cured at all, he has expended what would have purchased 'Eclipse' in his best days. 
               Sometimes, when one applies to the rich for aid in some useful or benevolent object, we are told of 'hard times,' and the necessity for economy. Now, hard times are just the very times when the rich should spend most liberally. When times are at the best, even the poor can live, after their poor fashion; but when the aspect of affairs becomes so bad as to bear heavily even on the rich, what but starvation awaits them? Then follow theft, vagrancy, desertion of infants, disease, and suicide; and the rich pay for all this, and heavily, too. The late Report of the Prison Association shows that one single pauper has cost the city above three thousand dollars. 
               A wise economy supposes a plan of life, adopted upon a fair estimate of means, a well-considered balance of comforts and advantages, and a deep sense of responsibility. Without these, efforts at economy will be spasmodic and unavailing. With these, even the comparatively poor can afford to be liberal. We hear of a rich man in the city who gives away annually fifty thousand dollars, without curtailing his own usual expenditures; and he does well. But we know, too, of a well-attested instance of a man who, born and bred a gentleman, yet reduced to almost nothing, so economized an income of one hundred and eight dollars, that he lived on two dollars a week, and gave away the remaining four dollars in charity, and this for years. This was certainly an example of the nicest economy, and of the best kind too. 
               'Thrift,' says Sir Philip Sydney, 'is the fuel of magnificence;' but he does not seem to mean so much a habit of sparing behind the scenes in order to make a grand appearance in the eye of the world, as a careful and methodical arrangement of resources, and a scrupulous avoidance of waste. There are those who waste through unthrift what would make many a poor family comfortable; though the effect of such expenditure is far from increasing their own enjoyment, while it makes those about them dishonest, and brings in 'want like an armed man.' Others spend on great occasions, or when impelled by pride, and attempt to supply the drain by petty savings-sometimes, and indeed not unfrequently, at the expense of their dependents. A lady, for instance, after exhausting the greenhouses for exquisite flowers for her 'reception,' will scour the town (in her carriage) to find a seamstress who will work cheap because of threatening starvation; or sit, herself, mending old stockings, boasting, 'You see how economical I am!' Such economy is often cruel-always silly. Those who live with a purpose, should beware of falling into such solecisms through the contagion of evil example. 
               Luxury in the rich is often good economy for them-that is to say, they may make it the means of wide-extended good to others; and if they practice it with this view, it is to be commended. Dr. Johnson defended the giving of half a guinea for a dish of green peas: 'How much gardening,' he says, 'was required to produce this luxury! Has not the money gone to the industrious poor, whom it is better to support than the idle poor? You are more certain of doing good when you pay money, than when you only give it.' We profess only to cite the doctor's sentiments and not his words; and we are far from adopting his opinion, without large reservation. We should be sorry to be understood to recommend Apician feasts and sumptuous equipages, as the best mode of disposing of money in aid of the poor. We have too much regard for the rich, to uphold any such doctrine; but we believe penuriousness to be far the greater blunder. 
               The prodigal are seldom truly generous. They are more frequently grasping and unjust, although by fits they may give without discrimination as without sacrifice. The economical are not always liberal; but the liberal are usually economical, in order to be able to give. Addison makes frugality one of the virtues of his favourite Sir Roger; and, to turn from fiction to fact, our own Washington was one of the most exactly frugal, as well as one of the most generous of men. His character would have lacked something of its wonderful balance of qualities, if this had been wanting. To decline all compensation for his public services, was an instance at once of the noblest generosity and of the most farsighted economy; since it placed him justly at the highest pinnacle of dignified independence, at the cost of what would have been infinitely less valuable to him than the undoubting confidence of his country. He was an economist in everything; for he bent his whole mighty sagacity to the adaptation of means to ends. 
               Some people have an amusing notion, that it is economical to save things by not using them! And they carry this so far, that if half their coffers and bags were abstracted, they would be, in reality, none the poorer, save in idea. It is to this hallucination we must ascribe fine houses never soiled by the foot of visitor; splendid parlors locked up; rich carpets covered with coarse drugget; valuable libraries unread; elegant carriages veiled in the stables, while their owners stay at home for fear of spattering them, or trust to India-rubbers; grand services of plate taken out once a year to be cleaned, and then restored to their papers. Hoarding is, indeed, one of the least sane attempts at economy, but it is far from being the most rare. Perhaps our old proverbial sayings are partly to blame for this. They generally advocate saving rather than spending; and why? Obviously, because a desire to accumulate is so prevalent; and because those who devised the proverbs had sagacity to perceive that certain habits were opposed to the one great object-an increase of goods. Not that any one could ever pretend that parsimony, for its own sake, is deserving of a place among the virtues. 
               We are, perhaps, the least economical people in the world, with the greatest desire to be the most so. We devote life to incessant toil, for the sake of a result which is, ultimately, entirely frustrated by the exhausting effects of that measureless self-devotion. We have no mercy upon the human body or mind. We set at nought all the rules of physiology, and all the teachings of mental philosophy, in order to acquire that which will be valuless to us without mind and body well preserved. From the city merchant to the backwoodsman, we are all over-worked; and too often pay with an old age of comfortless imbecility, for a youth and manhood of continual effort. Is this a wise economy of life? 
               While we are speaking of making the most of ourselves, we may advert to economy of time as one of the wisest sorts of thrift. Yet who is as saving of odds and ends of time as of sixpences and shillings? Do we consider our own time as being worth more than money? and are we careful to recollect that the time of the poor is his money? 'Call again,'-'tell her to wait'-'don't interrupt me now'-are not these our phrases sometimes when the labourer, the seamstress, the small tradesman, intrudes at an inconvenient moment? It is scarcely to be doubted, that the advantage of some people's 'custom' is often nearly balanced by this unthinking habit. 
               The poor themselves are but too little aware of the ruinous inroads of their petty waste, both of time and means. Nobody is so prodigal as your beggar; and it is this which makes his case hopeless. Once make plain to him the relative value of time, money, and personal comfort, and you will no longer see his basket at your door. But till this is accomplished, your most benevolent efforts in his favour will be but too much like water poured into a sieve. 
               We might multiply 'wise saws and modern instances'-we might show further the folly of mere saving without a just notion of results-the absurdity of leaving things to the rust and the moth, when there is, in this short life, so little time in which to use them. We might enlarge upon the blindness which leads us to search after what is cheap, rather than what is valuable. Cheap books, which ruin your eyes; cheap materials, which are not worth the making; cheap schools, which leave our children worse than they find them; cheap legislation, which turns out to be the dearest in the world. But we must let these and many other applications of the maxim, that 'economy is a wise adaptation of means to ends,' pass for the present, rounding off our prose with a proposition or two, which we hope our readers will not deem inappropriate: 
               Would you know how best to get rid of poor relations? 
               Give them so liberally of that which makes their poverty trying to your pride, that the distance between you will, in a good measure, disappear. 
               Would you learn how to make a dollar go farthest? 
               Send it to a poor man on the opposite side of the town. 
               Would you ascertain where to place your money in perfect safety? 
               'He that giveth to the poor, lendeth to the Lord.' 
             
             
                
               COMFORT. 
                
                   
                     
                         
                           O calm contented days and peaceful nights! 
                           Who, when such good can be obtained, would strive 
                           To reconcile his manhood to a couch 
                           Soft, as may seem, but, under that disguise 
                           Stuff'd with the thorny substance of the past, 
                           For fixed annoyance; and full oft beset 
                           With floating dreams, black and disconsolate, 
                           The vapory phantoms of futurity! 
                        
                         
                           As men from men 
                           Do, in the constitution of their souls 
                           Differ, by mystery not to be explained, 
                           And as we fall by various ways, and sink, 
                           One deeper than another, self-condemned, 
                           Through manifold degrees of guilt and shame;- 
                           So manifold and various are the ways 
                           Of restoration, fashioned to the steps 
                           Of all infirmity, and tending all 
                           To the same point-attainable by all- 
                           Peace in ourselves and union with our God. 
                        
                      
                     WORDSWORTH. 
                   
                
               'COMFORT' is one of those significant and precious words that are apt to be much abused. It is so comprehensive that people try to make it mean everything, just as 'religion' has been stretched to cover the burning of heretics, and 'justice' the gratification of vindictive feeling or the devices of envy. It is so good a word, in its true character, that none but honest and true people can use it with propriety. It is, by tacit consent, banished from the vocabulary of Fashion; and if Ambition should make a dictionary, Comfort would find no place in it. The French, who are lovers of pleasure, have been obliged to transplant our word comfort bodily into their language, as they had before naturalized a correlative word-home, after they had adopted the idea. Strange that we, proud as we are of our right to it, should ever misuse it! 
               But, as we were saying, it has, like some other good things, been sometimes sadly misunderstood or perverted. The most general, as well as fatal mistake, is that which supposes it to signify present gratification at all hazards. This is as if a man whose fingers were cold, should make a fire of his chairs, or split up his piano, for comfort. Or like a young lady who should take so much comfort in reading a novel, that when the twilight grew too deep, she could not resist setting the curtains a-blaze rather than wait for candles. (We see people risking ophthalmia in this cause every day.) Let none accuse us of extravagance in our illustrations. What we have imagined would be as much less foolish than some kinds of self-indulgence but too common, as matter is less precious than mind, body than soul; and it is only because the consequences of such absurdities would be immediate and obvious, while those of the more fatal sacrifices to present enjoyment are deferred in proportion to the dignity of the powers they ruin, that we do not recoil in horror from tempting pleasures which lead to certain misery. 
               We are all more or less disposed to self-indulgence, and as some amount of it is proper enough, it is not always easy to determine where the right ends and the wrong begins. In some very familiar and but too frequent cases, this is peculiarly difficult; and in the matter of intoxicating drinks, experience shows us how prone some natures are to self-delusion, as to the limit of lawful indulgence. It is on this ground that moralists recommend total abstinence as alone safe. 'Abstinence,' says Johnson, 'is easy-it is temperance that is difficult;' and the fact is well known. Is it not strange, then, that a principle sanctioned by the highest authority should arouse angry opposition? One would think it must command respect at least, even from those who yet were not disposed to adopt it practically. But whatever touches our private and personal practice comes so near, and calls in question such sensitive and delicate points, that it is, perhaps, to be expected that self-love should make us unjust. We do not love people who interfere with our 'comfort.' 
               If it were possible, in all cases of intemperance, to go down to the very roots of the habit, and ascertain and put one's finger upon the very first motion towards evil, we should doubtless be astonished to see how entirely among the things innocent or indifferent the seeds of destruction appear, in their undeveloped state. Nay, should we not find temptation lying in wait even among the virtues? That of good housekeeping, for instance, on which our present illustration turns. Can there be any bounds to the attention which a woman ought to pay to the comfort of her family? 
               There was our old acquaintance, Jacob Zieber, a German farmer in -- county, who used to sit soaking with cider, or something stronger, for two hours every evening before he went to bed. He had a prodigious European constitution, and you might as well have talked to one of the great logs it was his pride to take to the sawmill, as speak to him of the injuriousness of the practice. It had never hurt him, he said! He was of a cubical build, with a great jolter head of his own, set right on his shoulders, dispensing with neck for the greater firmness and security of carriage. His large light eyes had little speculation in them; and all the good cider and other good things he had faithfully imbibed, had done little towards imparting a genial tinge to his complexion. Flesh he had, in abundance; his hands were like bunches of sausages, and when he walked, his feet planted themselves, like those of the tramping statue in Don Giovanni. In strict accordance with this bodily configuration, his life was one of the dullest routine, diversified by going once every Sunday to church, when the text always put him to sleep. Comfort, wherever you can get it, was his creed. 
               His ordinary behaviour was pretty good, considering the cider and other stimulants, which might have fired a less phlegmatic temper into insufferableness. He never used to beat his wife, who was a smart-spoken dame, that held her own in the family, though she had come late into it, and brought with her a son, the only one the house ever knew. She stood on strong ground; and she knew it. Jacob Zieber was a confirmed old bachelor when the tricksy Fates threw him into the way of the widow Ferris, who established herself in his good graces by her excellent knack at making apple-toddy at a wedding where Jacob happened to be present. Then her nephew returned from a voyage round the world, and could think of no more appropriate present to his aunt than a carved pipe-head, which the good lady at once transferred to her excellent neighbour, Mr. Zieber, with some very choice tobacco, which her nephew was able to furnish. 'I know you know what's good, Mr. Zieber,' said the widow, 'and I like to see every body taking comfort;' and the cubical bachelor looked kindly upon her as she softly enunciated his favourite word. It is not to be wondered at, that after this, whenever he sat smoking by the fire, in that state of mental dissolution which it is the peculiar province of tobacco to produce, the image of the comfortable widow Ferris was associated with the gentle fumes, until she came in time to be part and parcel of Mr. Zieber's floating idea of the only true happiness. 
               When Mrs. Ferris became Mrs. Zieber-which she did in due season-she was far from deserving the reproach of unfaithfulness with regard to the 'comfort' of her husband and his household. Her difficulty lay rather in the other direction. She made him too comfortable. From his coffee in the morning, to his apple-today or mulled cider at bed-time, there was hardly an hour in the day that she was not baking or boiling, stewing, brewing, or concocting somewhat for the consolation of Jacob's mortal frame. She had an old receipt-book of her mother's, yellow with age, worn almost to undecipherable tatters by ceaseless consultation, and marked all over with tastes or specimens of every article that had been made by its instructions in fifty years. This was her vade-mecum-her oracle-her almanac-we had almost said her Bible. She was emphatically a woman of one book, and she spent the more time over it because, although very bulky, it possessed no table of contents; so that in order to find a rule for salting down hams, one might be obliged to plough through plumcakes, soar with puffs, wallow in washes, stick fast in plasters, take the shade of dye-stuffs, and put up with all kind of sauces. All the eye-waters in the book were not sufficient to make it intelligible to any but the initiated. To Mrs. Zieber, however, who had been brought up apon it, it had a beauty such as the earliest folio Shakspeare had in the eyes of Charles Lamb-viz., the beauty of sentiment, or 
                     'Something than beauty dearer'-
                   a tender interest, in short, not to be argued about or meddled with. We should like to have seen the individual bold enough to offer in exchange for it the most elegant and volumnious copy of Ude or Soyer. Its very idea was embalmed in butter, sugar, eggs, and spice, to say nothing of medicaments, charms, and lovelifying lotions. To read it always gave her an appetite, sharpened her ingenuity, and rent her at once to the kitchen; and the result was that her husband and her son grew to be as fastidious tasters, and as great connoisseurs, as herself. 
               Nor did Mrs. Zieber confine her cares to the comforting of the inner man. The condition, temperature, light, arrangement, and availableness of the house, were equally objects of her solicitude. She was conscientious in stopping draughts, regulating fires, stuffing cushions, placing chairs, so that no possible inconvenience could occur-no possible advantage be lost. All the rocking-chairs-and they were many-were made to rock just right; not too suddenly, nor yet with difficulty-as far from pitching backward as forward, and without a particle of squeak in their motion, let that be as vehement as it might. Not that vehement motion was much the habit of the family; but the little boy, David Ferris, preferred rocking to any other mode of exercise; and his mother had a chair made and quilted on purpose for him, which no one else was allowed ever to occupy. 
               Not to dwell too long on particulars, Mrs. Zieber was what is called an excellent wife, that being the term which is usually applied to a woman who takes good care of the physical comfort of her household. Further than this she never aspired. No book was ever permitted in the parlour, except an old family Bible, which was carefully placed on a stand in the corner, and only removed once a week-on Sunday evening-when Mr. Zieber read a chapter, in course, with a good deal of ceremony. What few school-books little David Ferris brought home, were put out of sight as soon as possible; for Mrs. Zieber would as soon have seen a toad on the table as a book. 
               David grew up under these auspices, and imbibed, to his heart's core, the family notion of 'comfort.' He never did anything he didn't want to; never learned a lesson when he preferred flying his kite, or went to school when he chose to have a headache and go fishing. He had a sip or a bit of everything nice that came from his mother's skilful hands, and would have felt much injured if he had not shared Mr. Zieber's bed-time beverage, be it what it might. That worthy person grew more and more quiet as his years increased, till at last he did not rise out of the great chair which he filled so well, except to exchange it for the 'comfortable' feather-bed, which was duly visited by the warming-pan when the thermometer stood below 60. There he sat and smoked, or dozed, or sipped some potent comforter, or lingered lovingly over some dainty placed before him on a little stand, which had gradually become consecrated to that use. David's comings and goings became less and less the object of his care, and that ingenious youth tried many youthful follies, which his mother took care should never reach her husband's ears. She said she thought boys must have a little comfort as well as grown people! 
               By-and-bye Mr. Zieber died rather suddenly, although he had been ailing for some time. He had several troublesome diseases, but would not allow a physician to be called because of the miserable able ideas of diet which that class of persons are supposed to entertain. Mr. Zieber was 'determined not to be starved to death at any rate.' On his last morning, his wife had prepared an egg beaten up with a spoonful of brandy, which she gave him before he rose to strengthen him. He then ate a tolerable breakfast of sausages, muffins, buckwheat cakes, and coffee, finishing off with a small glass of old, hard cider, that made even his eyes water, that being, as he declared, an excellent thing for the stomach. Feeling rather faint at lunch-time, he had a veal-cutlet and a little brandy and water. When dinner-time came, he complained of feeble appetite, so Mrs. Zieber kindly procured some venison-steaks, which she served up with a sauce of her own, redolent of wine and piquant with spices. This Mr. Zieber pronounced excellent; and having dispatched an apple-dumpling or two, he took his siesta with unusual satisfaction. Tea was never, with him, much of a meal, but he managed two or three cups of good green tea, with plenty of cream and sugar, and as many rounds of buttered toast, made as nobody but Mrs. Zieber could make it, as he often triumphantly declared. After this he felt, he said, uncommon comfortable, and dozed most of the evening, only once asking for a drink of cider, which he imbibed after putting in a little brandy to correct the acid. 
               David had been out all day, and came home late and rather cross, upon which his tender mother thought she would get him something good to eat to make him feel comfortable. This occupied some time, and detained her in the kitchen, where, when all was ready, David sat down to his supper, with a returning gleam of good humour at sight of the variety of dainties which his mother had brought together for his refreshment. He had hardly tasted anything, however, when he was startled by a loud scream in the adjoining room. Mrs. Zieber, on attempting to raise her husband to ask what he would have for supper, had found him quite dead. This occasioned such a shock and commotion in the family, that David did not get back to his supper till it was cold, at which he grumbled a good deal, for he loved comfort dearly. 
               The coroner said nothing of murder or suicide, but concluded Mr. Zieber to have died 'by the visitation of God,' and every body praised Mrs. Zieber for the excellent care she had taken of her husband. So she continued to take equally good care of her son, and he grew up a connoisseur in good living, and an infallible judge of cigars, and indeed of tobacco in every form. He tried various kinds of business, but found some fault with each; and his mother, thinking his objections very natural and reasonable, remarked that it was a comfort, after all, that David was not obliged to do anything, if he didn't choose. He made pretty good use of his gun and his fishing-rod, and occasionally brought in some contribution to the dinner, which again, as his mother observed, was a great comfort. 
               But unhappily, comforts of this description did not always satisfy the youth who had so long been accustomed to exercise his ingenuity principally upon the means of personal enjoyment. He wearied of his mother's watchful and solicitous eye, and, in the ingratitude of a heart hardened by too much mistaken kindness, learned to despise her for the sacrifices she made to his unreasonable whims. As for her, poor woman! she had so narrowed her mind to one poor, mean set of ideas, that it was incapable of receiving new ones; and when her darling son contemned her dainty dishes, or any of the various devices for his gratification that were always revolving in her brain, she was at her wit's end, and would go away and weep in sad foreboding of coming ills, she knew not what. Time showed the justice of her presentiments; for David was hardly one-and-twenty when he had formed some very unhappy connections with dissolute young men of the neighbourhood, who, for their own bad ends, flattered his weak pride by an outward show of deference which he felt to be a homage to his wealth. Unmistakable marks of the evil tendency of a self-indulgent life very soon began to appear upon the once good-looking youth; and his poor mother, always mistaken in her modes of attempting to do good, worried at him incessantly on the subject, until he declared his home intolerable, and justified his own misconduct by the assertion that he could have no 'comfort' anywhere but at the tavern. 
               This state of things came on gradually, but not so gradually that the unhappy mother was not conscious of each step in the downward path which the successive changes in her son's domestic habits served sufficiently to mark. When at length he was absent from home the greater part of the time, and would sit smoking in moody silence while he was there, either deaf to his mother's remonstrances and complaints, or roused to fierce and defiant replies when she pushed them too vehemently; the desperation of the case drove Mrs. Zieber to a special effort for his recall before it should be forever too late. In this case, as ever, she was unconscious of her own selfishness, and considered herself as acting 'all for the best,' though no sacrifice to Moloch was ever more cruel. She bethought her of an orphan niece of hers, a gentle and pretty girl, who was living in an uncle's family at some distance; and her bright thought was to send for this young woman, in the hope that so agreeble an inmate would prove at least some counterbalance to the attractions of the tavern. What was to become of the decoy-duck in this case, concerned her no more than if Mary Turner had been made of wood: David was to be saved-saved, that is, from disgracing himself, wasting his money, and annoying his mother, and in order to this, anything was lawful; and Mrs. Zieber, in her heart, thought herself an excellent mother, as indeed she was, as far as certain qualities of a good mother went. Want of knowledge is sometimes as fatal as want of virtue. 
               Mary Turner came, and the good effects of her presence were very soon evident at Mrs. Zieber's. Her cousin's dress began to improve, his hair and whiskers assumed a tamer aspect, and the general rowdyism of costume which had marked him for some time past, gradually softened into something approaching gentle-manliness. The visits to the public-house, too, were shorter and less frequent, his manner to his mother kinder, and his treatment of pretty Mary Turner almost gallant. She, on her part, bore herself with native modesty, assisted her aunt in household affairs, cultivated some acquaintance with the young people of the neighbourhood, and treated her dissipated cousin in that simple and familiar way which puts farthest off the idea of particular attention. This did not, however, prevent his falling or fancying himself in love with her; and, in the devotion of time and thoughts which ensued, evil habits and companions were put off, and the desired reformation seemed complete. The young man spent his evenings at home, or attended his fair cousin to village merry-makings-treated his mother with abundant respect-restrained, as far as possible, his natural and customary selfishness, and seemed, for the first time in his life, to find 'comfort' in pleasing other people. Whether he was in reality less selfish than usual, we shall see. 
               Mary Turner was by no means insensible to the agreeable change in her aunt's family, or indifferent to the effect of her charms upon the wayward heart of the spoiled child. She was young and easily fascinated, and soon yielded up her whole wealth of innocent affection in return, nothing doubting. Ferris declared himself, and was accepted; and nothing now remained but to obtain his mother's consent. This, to his great surprise, was not so readily granted as he expected. Mrs. Zieber loved her son, but she loved money too; and now that she considered David as entirely reclaimed from bad courses, she had no idea of letting him marry a girl without a shilling. She was even ready to accuse Mary of having artfully enticed her cousin into offering himself, and said such unkind and unbecoming things on this point, that the poor girl insisted on leaving the house and returning home at once. To this Mrs. Zieber gladly consented, thinking that absence would soon cure her son's sudden folly, and bring him once more under her own exclusive influence. But in this she was quite mistaken. Her knowledge of human nature was not very great, and of David's particular share of it, wonderfully small. The habits of self-indulgence in which she had herself trained him, were all against her. He had, as he said, found more 'comfort' in Mary's society than anywhere else, and the thought of relinquishing it never entered his thoughts for a moment. So he very soon followed her to her uncle's, and now his mother saw even less of him than before his reformation. Many unpleasant scenes of altercation and recrimination occurred when they did meet, and the poor woman had bitter proof of the hardening effect of making present gratification the first object of pursuit. Her passionate remonstrances fell on David's ear like cold water on the flinty rock; they did not even make him waver. He was of age, and chose to marry his cousin; his mind would hold no ideas but these. Opposition had aroused his temper, and made that a passion which might otherwise have proved but a passing fancy. If he had been let alone, he would very likely have changed his mind; but now a marriage with Mary Turner became the settled purpose of his soul. 
               It may seem strange that one who could pursue his own inclinations with so little regard to any body else, should have shown even such an amount of deference for his mother's wishes as was implied in delay. But David's dutifulness was exactly in proportion to the amount of property in his mother's power; and although he felt little fear as to her ultimate disposal of it, still, in so important a matter, he did not like to run any risk. So at last he fairly worried her into a consent, or the form of it, and in a short time after this Mary Turner was married and brought home, as Mrs. David Ferris. 
               Oh, how amiable was the devotee of 'comfort' in those days! Mrs. Zieber was a trifle sullen at first, but the real sweetness of Mary's disposition was too much for her prejudices; and the magic power of love diffused such a glory through the house, that old things were forgotten, or remembered only as heighteners of present satisfaction. With mother and Mary both devoted to his comfort, Ferris felt himself at the pinnacle of human felicity, and he would not have changed places even with that Hottentot sovereign whose two esquires of the mouth found their sole employment in cramming him with delicacies on the right hand and on the left. 
               And here, according to the practice of the modern novel, our story ought to conclude, leaving our characters in the condition described by the severe poet, as 'cursed with every granted prayer;' but truth forbids, and the world's history would contradict ours if we should represent a happiness founded mainly upon the senses, as proving any more permanent than it is exalted. Ennui is usually the first enemy in such cases-that negative torment, whose very vagueness makes it unendurable. Satiety is the most hopeless of mortal ills. 
                      
                        It is the constant iteration, stale 
                        And tasteless, of the same repeated joys, 
                        That palls and satiates, and makes languid life 
                        A pedlar's pack, that bows the bearer down. 
                        Health suffers, and the spirits ebb; the heart 
                        Recoils from its own choice; at the full feast 
                        Is famished; finds no music in the song, 
                        No smartness in the jest, and wonders why! 
                     
                  
                
               The next stage is ill health-the revenge of insulted nature; stealthy, but sure and terrible. Ferris had naturally a robust constitution, and it was slow in confessing the sapping and mining process that had been going on ever since he was born, so that he had had many of what he called 'singular attacks' before he felt permanently the worse for them. In due time, however, they began to tell upon his whole being, and then that other avenger, ill-temper, took the field. Seasons of terrible irritation alternated with the usual indulgences, and Mary's voice, once so potent in charming down the evil spirit, lost its magic. And now the old habit of wild and reckless companionship resumed its reign. Wife and children were as nothing, or only tedious and importunate clogs upon pleasure. Their expenditures seemed unreasonable because so much was drawn off in unlawful directions. Disputes about money, between Mrs. Zieber and the son she had so idolized and ruined, were fierce and frequent; Mary was appealed to as umpire, and thus often incurred the wrath of both. She did what she could to stem the tide of evil, but its sources were far beyond her reach. She had been educated in economy and self-denial, and would fain have brought up her children in the same way, but every perceptible effort in that direction was felt as a personal affront by Mrs. Zieber, who was never tired of sneering at 'people who think themselves so much wiser than their neighbours!' She, poor old lady, was very infirm, and had a terribly red nose, for which she was continually trying various lotions and potions from her mother's receipt-book, but with very little success, though she sometimes took the skin off the offending feature by mistaken or too heroic practice, which did not at all tend to the mollification of her temper. Her dutiful son, whose excesses had not yet centralized the over-heated blood, so as to give a volcanic aspect to his countenance, made his mother's misfortune the subject of many a jibe, which she resented with a degree of acrimony that highly amused him, producing in this way scenes from which Mary was used to draw off her children on any or no pretence, lest all respect for both father and grandmother should be utterly destroyed. 
               It was on her return, after one of these short absences, that she found her husband, who had been drinking a good deal, still storming at his mother and all the world, while the old lady, for a wonder, sat mute, not offering to interrupt him by one of those well-put observations with which human or diabolic ingenuity is wont to add fuel to the unhallowed fire already too hot. A second glance at Mrs. Zieber showed her the reason of this passiveness. A shocking change had taken place in her face, which was all awry; and though her eyes still showed consciousness, she was evidently deprived of the power of speech and motion-smitten with palsy. Her son, sobered at least in part by Mary's exclamation of horror, rushed to her side and tried to recall her fading senses by his expressions of grief and contrition, but in vain. The doctor came-remedies such as his skill suggested were anxiously applied; but Mrs. Zieber never spoke again. Repeated shocks confirmed the first, and in three days she breathed her last. 
               David was some thousands of dollars richer for his mother's demise, but there was in his secret soul a thought which effectually prevented the enjoyment of this accession to his property. He believed himself, whether justly or not, to be the cause of his mother's death. Conscience told him he had wantonly provoked and irritated her, and her dying look was always before his eyes, giving him a new excuse to himself for flying to temporary madness or oblivion for relief. A life on this principle led, of course, to various kinds of misery, including, at length, the disorder of affairs. A man who lives on stimulants, makes foolish bargains, as a matter of course; and a man who is known to be in the habit of making foolish bargains, will soon be a mark for sharpers. Hardly a month passed that some of David's tavern friends had not some fascinating scheme to propose, which only wanted a small capital at the beginning to insure the most incredible profits. If this larger trap did not take, there was a fine horse to be had at a bargain, or a famous trotter to bet upon. Mortgages became necessary, and these ate like cormorants; so that David Ferris was not very far from absolute and irretrievable ruin when, happily for all concerned, he came to a sudden end, by means of a wonderful horse just purchased of his dearest friend, which he happened to ride on a very dark night, after a tavern supper. He was brought home insensible, and scarcely spoke or noticed his family afterward, but bled inwardly for twenty-four hours, and so died, leaving wife and children in a poor condition enough. 
               But Mary had been learning deep lessons all this time. She was young when she came into the family, and naturally pleased with the change from poverty and neglect to abundance and affection. But she soon began to see the errors of her mother-in-law's system, and to deplore their effect upon the character of her husband. She saw how powerless is even affection to combat a habit of self-indulgence; for it was not very long before occasional harshness and disregard of her feelings alternated with Ferris's demonstrations of attachment. As years wore on, he had grown more and more exacting, and, between his requisitions, and those of Mrs. Zieber, Mary had become a sort of drudge, outwardly, while her moral nature had much ripened, as is often the case, where we are wise enough to accept in the best spirit evils evidently unavoidable. She had a kind and gentle nature, and a goodly habit in respect to the soft answer that turneth away wrath, and the opportune silence that gives time for unreason to recollect and be ashamed of itself. Her habits of self-denial, too, had grown with the occasion for their exercise, and in proportion to the wretchedness produced by the want of it in others. She had the consolation of feeling always that she was an element of blessing in the house, and that her husband and his mother, even in their most unhappy and perverse moments, did her justice in their hearts. Her children looked up to her with peculiar respect, from the instinctive reverence for the right which the young always feel when they see it contrasted with the wrong. Public esteem was hers, too; and when her affairs were to be settled, some of the best men in the neighbourhood took care that the widow had her rights, and that everything was disposed to the best advantage, so as to leave what might with prudence and economy serve to educate the children, and keep the family in decent comfort. It is to the honour of the community that the family of the unhappy devotee of dissipation always attract an exta amount of tender regard, if they preserve their virtue tue and self-respect under all the disadvantages of ill-example and depressing circumstances. 
               Let none think that we have drawn on imagination for a tragic conclusion to our life-sketch. The necessity is on the other side; the consummation of such careers is generally such as to oblige the narrator rather to soften than to exaggerate the truth. And perhaps the most tragic of all are those whose climax is never disclosed to the world, but concealed amid agonies of pride. 
               Strange secrets are let out by Death! and the revelations which occur when the affairs of the profligate and the inebriate are necessarily laid open to the world, give us some faint idea of the sufferings of those concerned, while the mask is still worn. If warnings were all that is needed, real life affords such almost daily. Fiction can, in this as in other cases, only follow in the footsteps of Truth. 
                
             
             
                
               
                   
                
                
               FAITH AND FORTUNE. 
               A ROMANCE OF CENTRAL AMERICA. 
               ALMOST all ancient nations have their hero, whose adventures and achievements having, in the course of time, become mingled with romance, make up an ideal of character a little beyond humanity, yet not without its uses in establishing a high national standard, and awakening in ardent minds an enthusiasm which leads to emulation. Gods and demigods were made thus in ancient Greece; and less romantic England has her Arthur; France her Charlemagne; and other nations their traditionary great men, sometimes imbued with supernatural powers, always with wonderful ones, and with qualities the very invention of which affords some idea of the people in whose minds they originate. The early inhabitants of Central America-a race scarcely traceable among the present population of that now unhappy region-are no exception to the fact of a heroic remembrance. They, too, had their highsouled, indomitable Arthur-their ideal of all noble and chivalrous qualities-in a young prince of Tezcuco, who lived in the fifteenth century; modern time compared with the pyramids, but quite a respectable antiquity for the western world. 
                
               This hero was no knight-errant who went about seeking for adventures by which to immortalize himself. Greatness was thrust upon him sorely against his will; for the rancorous pursuit of an inveterate foe, forced him into action before he had attained his sixteenth year. His name was Nezahualcoyotl-a dignified appellation, no doubt, in its day, and one which we may imagine was pronounced by contemporaries somewhat like an intercepted sneeze, but which, fortunately, we are justified in supposing was habitually abridged, as most very ponderous names are. We shall, therefore, by way of adopting a safe middle course, take the liberty of calling our hero Hualco-a cognomen which, we hope, no young lady will object to as inelegant, while it will spare us the frequent writing of an unreasonable number of syllables. 
               The city of Tezcuco was one of those which boasted a barbaric splendour at the period of which we write. No wonder that rumours of a western El Dorado had reached Europe. A bird of the air might carry the matter, in the shape of wings besprent with gold-dust, or a collar of emeralds worth an emperor's ransom. Sir John Maundeville's account of Prestor John's riches, seems scarcely fabulous after reading the history of these cities. Their sovereigns reigned like the kings in fairy land-absolute masters of treasures inexhaustible. Their country, limited as it was in extent, comprised every variety of climate, from the perpetual snow that crowned the mountains to the burning plains on the Atlantic coast. Between these extremes were ample regions of unchanging verdure, and that vast table-land, which, elevated six thousand feet above the level of the sea, is yet sheltered by a stupendous range of hill, and is at this day, in temperature, fertility and natural advantages, one of the most delicious regions on the face of the globe. The productions of this favoured country comprised all that nature ever grants to man; and the system of taxation insured to the sovereign a tribute in kind from everything yielded by earth, air, or water. Gold, silver, amber, turquoise, tortoise-shell, were the materials of drinking-vessels and other utensils, not only in the royal palaces, but in the dwellings of the nobility; and these are but a specimen of the wealth and luxury which prevailed. Over all this the king had nearly absolute power; and he was regarded by his people with almost the reverence due to a god. 
               But no splendour or dignity can secure the possessor against misfortune. Camaca, king of Tezcuco, in the midst of his prosperity-perhaps because of it-became an object of enmity to a neighbouring nation, the Tepanecs; and after a series of aggressions, the detail of which would be foreign to our present intention, these warlike people succeeded in overwhelming and destroying the more luxurious monarch. His son Hualco beheld the barbarous murder of his father, and but for the vigilance and fidelity of the tutor who had charge of him, would have met the same fate. This faithful friend contrived to secrete or disguise his master's heir so successfully, that the Tepanecs were baffled in their design to extinguish the royal blood of Tezcuco. 
               The young prince, who was surrounded by a few faithful friends, was at first inconsolable, both that his father was basely murdered and that he himself still lived. He dashed himself on the ground in all the extravagance of passionate youth's first grief, and declared his determination to rid himself of a life rendered hateful by misery and disgrace. 
               'Why didst thou hinder me, Atahuilpa,' he said, 'when I would have cast myself before my father, and received in my bosom the darts which were aimed at him? Thine own lessons have taught me to prefer many things before life; yet it is thy fault that I live the life of a coward and a slave, while my father dies and his kingdom is usurped by his murderers.' 
               'If thy death could have saved the life of the king,' said the old man, 'I myself would have urged thee-nay, forced thee to the sacrifice. But thou wouldst only have furnished another victim, and a more complete triumph. The lives of princes are the property of their people; and thou wert no less cowardly to throw away thine in despair, than thou wouldst have been to withhold it if it could have preserved thy father. In this world of war and strife, Hualco, he is the brave man who dares to live. If thou wouldst show thyself worthy to avenge thy sovereign upon his enemies, thou must begin with a mastery over thyself.' 
               Hualco had been taught from infancy the most implicit obedience to his preceptor. The customs of his country gave those to whom was confided the instruction of youth of the higher classes, and particularly those of the blood-royal, unlimited authority. The words of Atahuilpa aroused the prince to reflection, and he took part in the council which was now held, as to the safest disposition of his person, and the carrying out of those plans of education ordained by law for the heir of the crown. The posture of affairs allowed no present hope of an armed resistance to the Tepanecs, whose warlike habits and unscrupulous ambition would incline and enable them to retain the power they had gained in a kingdom now under the disadvantage of a royal minority. It was therefore considered advisable that Hualco should retire with his tutor to a rural retreat not far from the city, and there adopt such precautions as would secure, as far as possible, the incognito rendered necessary by his present unhappy position. 
               Stripped of the golden ornaments which denoted his rank, and clothed in a garment of nequen-a coarse cloth made from the fibres of the aloe, and used by the lower classes-Hualco was conducted by his tutor to the humble residence which was to be his home for the present. It was a cottage of considerable size, thatched with palm-leaves, and shaded by the magnificent cypresses which at that time abounded in the country, and were afterward destroyed by the Spaniards. Here, with his excellent tutor, the prince applied himself assiduously to his studies. 
               'The gods have already shown thee, Hualco,' said the sage, 'that thou art but as a feather in their hands. Whether they will have thee monarch or peasant, they require of thee knowledge and virtue, which will fit thee for either destiny. If, in spite of all my cares and all my hopes, thou art reserved but to grace a sacrifice of the Tepanecs, their fires can detain thee but for a moment from the presence of the Sun, where thou wilt take rank with other glorified spirits, according as thou hast well used the few years of thy probation here.' 
               By such counsels, heard by the youth with the deepest reverence, did the wise and good Atahuilpa seek to train by study, effort, and sacrifice, the precious charge upon whose course the eyes of all true Tezcucans were secretly fixed. It is not surprising that in such society, and secluded from all injurious influence, the young prince grew in all good things, even as his slender and graceful proportions gradually assumed the strength and symmetry by which he was afterward distinguished. The elders of his people, the priests, the caciques, and such of the nobility as had not been won over by the splendid bribes of the conqueror, found means not unfrequently to visit the lonely cottage, strengthening the resolution and encouraging the hopes of the prince and his preceptor, and devising plans for a concerted attempt to restore the liberties of the kingdom. Perhaps, by means of these visits, the vigilance of hatred and self-interest accomplished what had been vainly attempted by corruption. 
               Hualco was wandering by star-light with his tutor, listening to a lesson in astronomy-a science in which the learned of that country had even then made surprising advances. 
               'Thy star is blood-red to-night, Hualco,' said the old man; 'it seems as if Quetzalcoatl, whose mild influences we invoke, were about to yield thee to his fiercer master. There are those among our wise men, who would read this heaven for thee, foreshowing thy future course, perhaps even thy fate.' 
               'And would this knowledge enable me to avoid the evil that might threaten me, father?' said the prince. 'If not-if the decree of the gods be unalterable-to know of certain misfortune could but weaken resolution and extinguish hope. I would rather study with thee the outward aspect and wonderful revolutions of those bright orbs, leaving their deeper meaning to be spelled by those who can make better use of such knowledge. Teach me only what will fit me for the work that lies before me.' 
               As he spoke they passed beneath the deep shade of a liquid-amber tree, and at the same moment a net, made of the fine-twisted fibres of the aloe-a plant which serves in that country for a thousand useful purposes-fell over and enveloped both tutor and pupil, while armed men sprang upon them, and easily overpowered them, entangled as they were, and without weapons. 
               'What would you have with us?' said the prince, when at length exhausted, he ceased to struggle with his captors. 'My father at least can have committed no crime; let him go, and then bear me whither ye will." 
               'Thy father, young serpent,' said the deep voice of one of the warriors, 'shall see thy heart cast out at the feet of our great god Huitzilopotchll,
                     The Mexican Mars.
                   as the reward of his treachery to our master. That once accomplished, he shall die the death of a dog.' 
               The prince would have made a furious reply to this threat, but Atahuilpa controlled him by a sign. 'Cowards war with words,' he said, 'while silence is the strength of the prudent.' Hualco no longer dared to question his captors, but followed unresistingly as well as his fettered limbs would allow. 
               Day was breaking as the armed men with their prisoners entered the gates of the city. The vast splendours of that wonderful capital lay in dim repose, and scarce a sound was heard, save the voices of innumerable singing birds with which the gardens of the nobility were filled. These welcomed the dawning light, and fluttered amid the perfumed branches, scarce conscious of captivity; although nets of great strength, almost imperceptible from their extreme fineness, prevented their straying beyond the prescribed limits. Far different was the prison to which the prince and his friend were destined. It was a strong, gloomy dungeon, built of unburnt brick, with walls of immense thickness, ornamented here and there at the angles with the hideous image of some god who was supposed to delight in vengeance. The huge gates opened at a sign from the leader of the party; and Atahuilpa, who had been watching on every side for some one to whom he might find means of communicating the situation of the prince, was obliged to follow his royal pupil into the prison, with the certainty that those gates would shut out all hope from any friend in the city. So important a place would probably be entrusted only to a tried servant of the usurper; and all that the prisoners could hope, was a speedy termination of their suspense. 
               Coarse fare and harsh treatment were now their lot; and they had the additional vexation of finding, in the governor of the prison, a man whom they had ranked among their friends. From one capable of such treachery no favour could be expected, and they resigned themselves to their fate, with such philosophy as they could summon. The Tepanec sovereign was about to depart upon one of his visits to his ancient dominion, and Atahuilpa and Hualco anticipated nothing less than forming a conspicuous part of the sacrifices with which it was usual to propitiate the gods upon such occasions. 
               In effect, such were the orders received at the prison. Emissaries from the king came to prepare Hualco for the solemnity, by the aid of baths, perfumes, rich dresses, jewels and flowers, which were employed for many days, with many mystic ceremonies, to fit the victim for the high honour of being offered to the great Tetzcatlipoca, or Soul of the World. Atahuilpa was treated with less respect, and given to understand that an ignominious and obscure death awaited him. 
               The latest sun was setting. The morning was to see the forming of the immense procession in which Hualco, with many victims of less note, the prize of late victories, was to pass to the great temples, whose altars were already decorated for the ceremony. The prison swarmed with priests and their attendants, every avenue was filled with gorgeous preparation for the sacrifice, and an extra guard was set, lest, in some paroxysm of fruitless loyalty, the populace should attempt the rescue of their native prince. But night settled calmly on the scene of bustle and anxiety, and fatigue deepened the slumbers of those who had been most active in the labours of the day. Two priests watched by the side of Hualco, whose only consolation now was that his revered preceptor was not separated from him. The governor of the prison had signified his intention of guarding the victims in person, and at midnight he entered and took his station in front of the seat on which Hualco was placed. The priests, somewhat relieved by this vigilance, resigned themselves to short repose, and the most profound silence reigned where all had so lately been hurry and agitation. 
               The governor, when this quiet had become established, so that the low breathing of the sleepers was the only sound heard, arose from his seat and whispered a few moments with Atahuilpa. Each of the two then approached a priest, and falling upon him suddenly, bound him with cords which the governor had provided, threatening instant death if they gave the alarm. The priests, accustomed to strike only unresisting victims, submitted almost without a struggle, and sat, terrified spectators, while the governor, falling at the prince's feet, besought his pardon for even the appearance of treachery. 'My life was vowed to your service,' he said; 'and I sought this post from the tyrant, in order that if you should fall into his hands I might become your keeper. I have lent myself to his cruelty lest I should be displaced; and behold the fruit of my care! I am the deliverer of my master's son!' 
               'But your own fate!' said Hualco, whose senses were in confusion with surprise and agitation. 
               'I take your place, of course, but with joy and pride. No Tezcucan but will envy me my death upon the altar. But come, my prince, the moments are precious. Here is the key of the east gate, where you will find a trusty attendant, and a change of garments. Farewell! hasten to Mexico and engage the intervention of the king, who is powerful with the usurper. Farewell, good Atahuilpa; thou hast another life for thy prince when he shall need it.' 
               Remonstrances were unavailing. The governor reminded them that he was irrevocably compromised by the presence of the priests, whom to kill would have incurred the displeasure of the gods on him in whose behalf they were sacrificed. To linger, therefore, would but render unavailing his self-immolation; and Hualco, dizzy with contending emotions, and urged vehemently by both his friends, at length consented to depart, after embracing in an agony of grief the faithful Tezcucan who exulted in laying down his life for his sake. 
                
               Before the east had become ruddy with the dawn, the fugitives were well advanced on their way to the shore of the lake by means of which they must reach the city of Mexico. But as the day approached, the rising hum, more and more audible from the city they had left, reminded them that with the early preparation for the tremendous ceremonies of the day their escape must be discovered, and innumerable scouts would be despatched to thread every avenue in the neighbourhood, so that to attempt to proceed would be certain discomfiture. Trusting, therefore, to the impenetrable foliage which abounded on every side, they concealed themselves in a tree, whence they could observe those who passed without fear of being discovered. It was not long before they perceived among the people who began to throng toward the city, others who came from the opposite direction, and who were making the most anxious inquiries on every side. At the same time, far in the distance, the great teocalli, or temple, which rose quite above the walls and buildings of the city, was alive with priests, ascending and descending its numerous staircases, and preparing for the sacrifices which were to take place upon the two altars that flamed upon its summit. The heavy sound of the great drum, and of the wild chorus of instruments and voices which announced the forming of the procession, soon became audible even at that distance; and as the sun rose, the foremost priests, canopied under arches of flowers, and bearing in their hands the various implements of sacrifice, ascended to the summit of the temple. An innumerable throng, high above whose heads, on a gorgeous throne, and protected from the sun by innumerable plumes of every splendid dye, was seen the sovereign himself, crowned with his tall golden mitre, followed the sacred legion; and still later, heralded by shouts that rent the sky, the mournful file of victims, bound two and two, with flowery crowns about their heads, and torches of aromatic wood, lighted at the sacred fire, burning in their hands. Loud and louder sounded the great drum of serpent's skin, and wilder grew the shouts that rent the transparent heaven, as the dark-robed priests bound the first victim to the sacrificial stone. In another moment, the chief pontiff, raised high above the whole crowd, held up toward the sun some object which could not be discerned at that distance, but which our wanderers knew well was the heart of the victim. Hualco shuddered. Nature in the young speaks louder than superstition, and even the superstitions of his people were far milder than those of the warlike nation who now ruled them. 
               When I am king, Atahuilpa,' he said, 'I will not offer my human brethren to the good gods.' 
               'When thou art king, Hualco, said the old man, 'thou wilt be the instrument of thy people. A monarch may control the lives and fortunes of his subjects, but not constrain their consciences. While the people feel the sacrifice of their enemies to be acceptable to the gods, thou must not only allow but sanction the custom. When thou hast persuaded them to leave these bloody rites to their neighbours who delight in carnage, and to be satisfied with offering at the altars the fruit and flowers which are the gift of heaven, then mayst thou banish forever the scent of blood from the sacred places, without becoming impious in the estimation of those to whom thou art bound to set an example of all goodness.' 
               As Hualco sighed at this exposition of the duties of a monarch, he turned his eyes from the odious spectacle, now shown still more distinctly by the full blaze of the up-risen sun, and perceived that the wide way, so lately trampled by thousands, was solitary as a desert. 'Let us proceed, my father,' he said; 'the lake is not far distant, and we may reach the city of my kinsman before this ceremony has ceased to attract the multitude.' And in a short time they found themselves safely seated in the pirogue of an old fisherman, the only individual of his neighbourhood who had resisted the temptation of the day. 
               The old man steered them safely through the multitude of chinampas, or floating gardens, those 'wandering islands of verdure,' with which the bosom of the lake was studded in every direction. They reached the city at noon, and Atahuilpa rewarded the old fisherman with a small golden ornament which he had concealed about his person. The Tezcucan took it-looked narrowly at the giver, and still more narrowly at the younger stranger, then, prostrating himself on the earth, he kissed the feet of Hualco. The fugitives saw that they were recognized; but it was by a Tezcucan, and they had no fears. 
               The Mexican monarch received his royal kinsman with great kindness, and assigned to him and his tutor a residence which afforded every facility for the prosecution of the various studies considered necessary for the perfecting of the prince's education. This was bound to include a store of traditionary lore, the mysteries of hieroglyphics, in which the laws were registered, accounts kept, tax-rolls recorded, and the whole system of their mythology, their rituals and their calendars, presented to the people; a knowledge of astronomy and astrology; and, what seems singular, a trade or business, which should render the possessor independent of the vicissitudes of fortune. All this required a long period; and we are told that Hualco lived several years at the Mexican court, quietly fitting himself for the splendid station which he was to occupy, as a gladiator is trained for the arena. The intervention of his cousin of Mexico proved a protection from the persecutions of his enemy; and at length the usurper went the way of all men, and his son reigned in his stead. 
               Whether this successor, who was called Maxtla, had been so much in the back-ground during his father's lifetime, that his real character was not know, or whether, on coming to the throne, he took up with the royal insignia his father's hatred-the Mexican monarch was so mistaken in him as to recommend that Hualco should take the opportunity of the rejoicings upon his accession to conciliate him by a present. The prince, with a proper escort, and such gifts and offerings as seemed likely to be considered as evincing a desire for friendly relations with the Tepanec sovereign, presented himself at his court, and, though much against his will, made such demonstrations of friendship as had been recommended by his more politic kinsman. The result was such as often waits upon duplicity. As the prince approached, attended by his tutor and by servants bearing his offering, the new-made monarch, seated on a throne of gold, and himself covered with rich garments, sprinkled with pearls and precious stones, turned his head aside with marks of the greatest contempt and aversion, and stamping his golden sandal on the ground, said something in a furious tone to his attendants. One in the crowd whispered to Hualco that this boded his destruction, and advised him to withdraw at once. The confusion of the moment enabled him to mingle in the crowd of splendidly dressed persons by whom the king was surrounded; and in a short time the prince was once more a fugitive, with the additional grief of being, for the first time, separated from his venerable guide, who had not been able to follow him from the presence-chamber. 
               Anticipating hot pursuit, Hualco struck as speedily as possible into the country, where he wandered exposed to all inclemencies of weather, lying concealed during the day in dens and caverns, and stealing out at night to find sustenance, which, in that bounteous climate, was never far to seek. A thousand times was he tempted to dare the hate of Maxtla rather than live on thus wretchedly; but the lesson so deeply instilled into him by Atahuilpa, that his life belonged to his people, was of power in the darkest moment to restrain him from following his inclination. He endured existence, therefore, and endeavoured to fix his thoughts on the future, believing that if it was the will of the gods that he should yet redeem his people, they would interpose to afford him their protection. 
               He was surprised one day by a Tepanec soldier who chanced to enter the cavern where he lay concealed. The man sprang upon him, and shouted to his comrades; but Hualco, vigorous and desperate, grappled with him, and after a short contest, left him lifeless on the ground. The prince then plunged still deeper into the forest, and after travelling a considerable distance, came to an open glade, at one extremity of which stood a large low building, evidently the residence of a farmer or cultivator of the better class. At the door of the house, under the shade of a wide-spreading cypress, and the still closer screen of a bending plume of feathers, sat a young girl, engaged in embroidery, and singing as she worked. A white robe, confined at the waist by a rich girdle, was her simple costume; and upon her arms she wore bracelets of turquoise, from which hung little golden ornaments, making a tinkling music as she moved her hands. Her long black locks hung over her shoulders, held back from her brow by a chaplet of Californian pearls. 
               At the approach of Hualco the maiden drew over her a delicate veil of pita, which she had thrown aside on account of the heat, and rising from her seat, waited for him to speak. 
               One more practised in female society than the young prince might have felt somewhat embarrassed at coming so suddenly upon this beautiful apparition; but Hualco was dumb. Recovering himself, however, he found words to ask shelter, and to say that there were those in pursuit who hunted for his life. 
               'And who art thou,' said the maiden, 'that thy blood should be sought thus early? Hast thou committed some crime for which thou art pursued by order of the gods?' 
               'No, lady,' said the prince; 'I am accused of no crime. The Tepanec king, who now rules Tezcuco, is my enemy, and his soldiers are in this forest in pursuit.' 
               'The king thine enemy!' said the maiden, looking intently at Hualco; 'who art thou, then?' 
               'Fair lady,' said the prince, 'I cannot look upon thee and believe thou wouldst betray the unfortunate. I am the prince of Tezcuco, banished from my country, and hunted like a wild beast by the usurper.' 
               Before he could be aware of her intention, the damsel had prostrated herself at his feet, bowing her graceful head till her long locks swept the ground. 
               'This poor house is yours, my lord,' she said, 'and those to whom it belongs hold their lives at your service.' She arose as she spoke, and lifting the mat which closed the door, the ringing of the small pieces of metal with which it was bordered, awoke an ancient dame who had been sleeping on a couch at the farther end of the apartment. She started at sight of Hualco, but, the damsel whispering to her, she would fain have done homage if the prince had not prevented. At this instant the sound of men's voices was heard approaching the house, and Hualco looked round for some place of retreat. The maiden pointed to a large heap of maguey (aloe) fibres in one corner, as the only attainable hiding-place. Scarcely was the prince covered under these, when his pursuers entered the house. All their inquiries, though enforced with threats, elicited no information; and after examining the different apartments, they withdrew. 
               As evening approached Hualco ventured forth, and learned from the young lady and her duenna, that the household in which they were only sojourners, were faithful Tezcucans, who would glory in dying for their prince. The people of the house, who had been assisting at some festival, returned soon after and confirmed this assertion; but they brought the intelligence that the soldier, whom Hualco had but stunned, having rejoined his companions, gave such positive testimony of the prince's being in the neighbourhood, that there was reason to expect another visit and a more thorough search on the following day. 
               One night of rest, however, was something for the fugitive; and he resigned himself to slumber with all the zest which belongs to excessive fatigue and long watching. So sound was his sleep that it was with difficulty he could be waked by the master of the house, who, watching through the night, had seen lights glancing in the forest, which he knew must belong to the party in search of the prince. Not a moment was to be lost; and Hualco, leaving the house by the opposite side, fled toward a small settlement, in which his host assured him he would find friends. The darkness, however, prevented his keeping the proper path, and after long following a light which he supposed to proceed from the settlement, he came into the midst of some soldiers, who were beguiling a night-watch with songs and dances. Their music and the words of their songs convinced him that they were his own countrymen, and he boldly claimed protection. This was readily granted, and they offered him refreshments, with every mark of the reverence which they were accustomed to show their monarchs. Upon the approach of his pursuers, they concealed him under the immense drum around which they had been dancing, and renewed their mirth. Hualco, from his hiding-place, heard the soldiers of Maxtla proclaim the price set upon his head-'An ample domain, with the hand of a noble lady in marriage'-and threaten the most dreadful tortures to those who should conceal him; but he knew the devotion of his people too well to fear anything but that the soldiers might bethink them of removing the drum. They passed on, however, and the prince found himself in the midst of friends, who, disguising him as one of themselves, conveyed him safely to Mexico, where he had again the happiness of embracing his beloved preceptor. 
                
               Once more under the protection of his powerful kinsman, Hualco was in a condition to make some terms with his implacable enemy; and the result of the negotiation was an agreement that Hualco should succeed upon the death of the usurper, and permission for the prisoner to inhabit his own palace at Tezcotzinco, about two leagues from Tezcuco, under certain restrictions. Not without many suspicions of treachery, Atahuilpa decided to accept the offers of Maxtla, judging it best that the young prince should have the opportunity to become personally known to his future subjects, even at some risk to himself. All seemed tranquil, and the situation afforded important facilities for the instructions considered so essential for the future sovereign. Yet Hualco for the first time showed a disinclination for the pursuits which had formerly so much interested him. His eye was dull-his step languid; he yawned over the abstruse calculations of his tutor-made verses and sang them to the twilight, and spoiled his picture-writing by drawing fair maidens with long, willowy tresses, instead of hideous men with globular heads and triangular eyes. 
               'What ails thee, Hualco?' said the tutor at last, for between him and his royal pupil there had never been any reserve. 'Art thou becoming a woman, when thy people are looking for a man able to hurl the usurper from his throne, and make his heart an offering to the red-eyed war-god?' 
               'A woman, father! a woman!' said Hualco, with an absent air; 'What woman? Hast thou seen her?' 
               The old man gazed on his pupil with dismay. Had persecution and hardship turned his brain? or had Maxtla contrived to have some slow, subtle poison given him, of power to mar his brilliant promise, and make his life worse than death? 
               Good Atahuilpa suspected not the subtlest of poisons; and Hualco, recollecting himself, contrived to set his tutor's mind at rest for the time, although his thoughts wandered too often to the forest glade, and the fair creature who sat singing under her plumy screen. 
               His favourite retreat when evening softened the heat of day, and the moonlight made a scene of enchantment of those magnificent terraced gardens, so long a proverb of loveliness, was the topmost terrace of all, where, from an artificial lake or basin, the purest water was distributed in numerous channels through the whole extent of the domain, falling over the rocks in cascades, and shedding freshness on the flowers and shrubs below. Gilded aviaries, containing the rarest and most splendid birds, enlivened the bowers; and representations of others, exquisitely wrought in gold and silver, were among the decorations of the reservoir. But the object upon which, amid all this magnificence, Hualco chose to fix his perversely pensive eyes, was the marble statue of a nymph, bending over the placid water as if seeking a mirror for her beauty. This figure was, perhaps, the last that would have attracted a casual observer, since, though it was exquisitely wrought, its pale subdued hue gave it a melancholy air, surrounded as it was by gorgeous colours and glittering objects. It was an allegorical figure, we are told, and Hualco seemed to be studying its hidden meaning. 
               Here he lay, watching the effects of the declining light, and touching at intervals a musical instrument which he held in his hand, when a slender arrow fell just before him. He took it up, and found tied to its feathers a small scroll covered with the picture-writing of the country. As we have no conveniences for giving a fac-simile of this epistle, we shall only offer a paraphrase of its contents, which may be thus translated: 
               'He who sits on thy father's throne, O prince, has this day drawn across thy portrait the line of blood. Three suns will not set before he has fulfilled the vow thus made. Save thself, then, among thy faithful people.' 
               The signature was a veiled figure kneeling. Hualco dwelt more upon this than upon the warning. Could it be the forest maiden? He was too much of an adept in the ambiguous picture-writing not to know that the mysterious figure was quite as likely to mean grief, or secresy, or humility; but the notion once in his brain that the scroll came from the beautiful unknown, he thought of nothing else, and, keeping the missive in his bosom, forebore even to mention it to his tutor. 
               The next evening found the prince as before, lying by the crystal reservoir, and indulging in such reveries as will visit prince as well as peasant. A slight rustling startled him, and a figure, covered from head to foot in a garment of the coarsest nequen, knelt on the pavement of polished porphyry. 
               'Prince,' said a gentle voice, 'you are here still. Your friends sent you yesterday a warning. To-morrow it may be too late!' 
               'Lady!' said Hualco, springing up as if he felt already the assassin's dagger, and approaching his mysterious visitor-- 
               'Ladies do not appear thus,' said the voice again, but with some slight embarrassment; 'your subjects watch over your life, and employ the messenger most likely to gain access to you, to warn you to fly from certain destruction. Every avenue to the palace is guarded by those devoted to Maxtla, and it was only among the slaves who brought provisions from the market that I found entrance. It was hoped that the scroll of yesterday would be sufficient; but, finding you were still here, those who watch have sent a token which will convince you of the danger.' 
               So saying, she unfolded from beneath her robe a piece of maguey cloth, on which was depicted a figure, instantly recognized by the prince as intended for himself, with a line drawn across the centre of the face; while an arrow, to denote swiftness, a skull signifying death, and a tall mitre or crown emblematical of the king himself, told Hualco that this was indeed his death-warrant. 
                
               'And where could you procure this, maiden?' said the prince, completely bewildered by such tidings brought by such hands. 
               'The order was given to my-to Xicote, who is supreme judge of Tezcuco,' said the messenger, holding out her hand to receive it again. 
               'But Xicote is among those who have forgotten their allegiance,' said Hualco; 'surely it is not from him that this warning comes.' 
               'It comes from a friend-from your friends, prince,' replied the damsel, 'and I trust the unsuitable character of the messenger will not make it of no avail. They did as well as they could, and I am not at liberty to explain all.' 
               'Tell me, at least, lady,' said Hualco, who felt more and more certain that the trembling being before him was none other than the noble maiden of the forest-'tell me thy name, that I may know whom to thank for this perilous service.' 
               'Know me as one of the humblest of your servants, anxious only for your safety,' said the messenger; and she bent low before the prince as she spoke, showing him again the never-forgotten outline which had haunted his dreams. 
               She turned to depart, but Hualco sprang after, and attempted to detain her. 'Stay but a moment,' he said; but the lady, in a voice seemingly choked with emotion or terror, exclaimed, 'Do not cause me to repent!' and he let go her robe, suffering her to disappear as mysteriously as she had come, while he threw himself on a bank, more vexed that he was left in uncertainty as to her identity with the goddess of his recollections, than disturbed by the new persecution of his enemy. 
               He sought Atahuilpa, however, and communicated to him the intelligence he had received. The old man concerned himself but little as to the messenger, whom he supposed from the description to be some faithful slave. He agreed with Hualco that it would be in vain to attempt escape when every avenue was guarded; and they concluded rather to rely on stratagem when the moment of danger should arrive. 
               A large party, consisting of soldiers and others, made their appearance at Tezcotzinco on the following morning, charged, as they said, with important messages from Maxtla. The prince and his tutor received them courteously, and ordered refreshments to be brought, upon which a sumptuous banquet, which had been previously prepared, was served in one of the immense saloons of the palace. Game of all sorts, with the delicious fruits and vegetables of the country, confections and pastry, regaled the emissaries of the usurper; while pulque in abundance, and the scarce less intoxicating tobacco, induced the travellers to prolong their repast, and to mingle with their conviviality the songs and dances with which such entertainments were wont to conclude. 
               Hualco was all attention to his guests, ever in the midst of them, and furthering their enjoyment in every way. After they had risen from the table, and the foaming chocolate-even then a favourite beverage with the Central Americans, to whom we owe it-had been served, it was proposed that the company should repair to another part of the palace, where some dramatic representations were prepared for their amusement. These consisted of a sort of pantomime by masked performers-a favourite pastime with these people as with all others. In one part of the performance, a burning censer was introduced, into which the principal actor threw such quantities of incense, that the whole room was obscured, and the spectators found themselves half-suffocated with the dense perfume. When it dispersed, Hualco and his tutor were gone. 
                
               This last effort of the perfidious Maxtla, who, anxious to avoid a rupture with the Mexican monarch, had cloaked under various pretences his determination to destroy Hualco, proved favourable to the fortunes of the prince. The people, extremely discontented with the Tepanec rule, which they contrasted with the far milder sway of their own sovereigns, were ripe for a general revolt; and their chiefs found in this new demonstration of Maxtla's enmity, a reason for immediate action. Measures were therefore taken for the organization of a force which should drive the intruder from Tezcuco, and set the young heir upon the throne of his fathers. 
                
               After a bloody struggle, the arms of Tezcuco triumphed, as had been anticipated, and the usurper, humbled and dispirited, was left a prisoner in the hands of those who had every reason to detest him. Hualco was entreated to permit his vanquished enemy to be sacrificed to the gods without delay; for the people of Tezcuco, though of gentler tone than the surrounding nations, had not then renounced the horrid practice of human sacrifices. But the new king, though not superior to a feeling of strong resentment against against Maxtla, and, perhaps, not slightly tempted to rid himself thus easily of one who seemed-for reasons which will soon be evident to the reader-the only obstacle between him and his dearest wishes, resisted the double impulse, and signified to those who importuned for the death of the usurper, his intention that the royal captive should be subjected to the sentence of the 'Tribunal of God,' the highest court of the kingdom. The people murmured, but, accustomed to absolute submission, forbore all open demonstration of their disappointment, and preparations were made for the holding of this solemn court on the very day when Hualco was to be formally invested with the royal dignity. 
                
               The coronation of a monarch was always an occasion of great pomp; and the peculiar circumstances under which the new sovereign came to the throne-fresh from a splendid victory over the conqueror who had threatened to reduce Tezcuco forever to the condition of a province-made him so much the popular idol, that the preparations for the ceremony were unusually magnificent. The chiefs flocked around their new-found king with their armed vassels, and the rich tribute in kind which contributed so much to the luxury of the royal residences. The national standard, bearing, in hieroglyphical symbols, the armorial ensigns of the state embroidered in gold and feathers, floating from the azoteas
                  
                     Terraced roofs.
                   and pinnacles of the palace, while every great chief displayed his own, gave to the whole city the air of a carnival. Couriers were arriving every moment from distant parts of the kingdom, and even from the ocean, with gifts and offerings to enhance the splendour of the great event. All was excitement and exultation, while he to whom the whole was dedicated, depressed by a hopeless yet intense passion, would gladly, if his inclination had only been consulted, have renounced the pomp of empire to bury himself in the forest glade for the sake of the lovely Faraltzin. When the day arrived which was to behold the solemn recognition of the new sovereign, and to decide the fate of Maxtla, it might have been difficult to determine on which event the minds of the immense multitude that thronged every avenue of the city were most intently fixed. 
               The coronation took place in the morning, and the air was rent with the joyful acclamations with which the crowded streets received the announcement. But the ceremony was not complete without the sacrifices, which Hualco, although his soul detested such abominations, was unable to prevent; and previous to the sacrifices must Maxtla's sentence be pronounced. The king surrounded rounded by all his realm could furnish of power and grandeur, took his seat upon the golden throne, from which the judgments of the 'Tribunal of God' were pronounced. Before him, upon a stand formed of military weapons-shields, quivers, bows and arrows-was placed a human skull, on the crown of which gleamed an immense emerald, surrounded by a brilliant plume, ornamented with precious stones. The walls were hung with the rich tapestry peculiar to the country, festoons with gold rings, and covered with the figures of birds and animals embroidered in the most glowing colours. Around the throne were placed the great lords of the kingdom, marshalled according to their rank. 
               In the midst of profound silence, the perfidious Maxtla was brought into the open space in front of the throne. His brow wore an air of haughty defiance, for he felt that his hour had come, and he scorned to implore the clemency of him whom he had pursued with so much rancour. He fixed his eye upon his youthful judge with an expression of the deepest hatred, while the king, rising from the throne, placed his left hand on the skull, and raised in his right hand the golden arrow with which the whole breathless assembly waited to see him draw the fatal line across the face of a portrait intended to represent the prisoner, which had been placed near him for that purpose. What was the surprise-the dismay of all, when Hualco, breaking the arrow, held out his hand to his fallen foe, and pronounced his pardon with the words- 
               'A monarch may punish, but he must not revenge!' 
               The sullen nature of Maxtla scarcely permitted him to acknowledge with decency the grace that had been accorded to him; and he retired from the presence amid the suppressed or half-murmured execrations of the assembly, to whom the clemency of the new sovereign was anything but agreeable. He passed from the palace into the crowded street-a herald proclaiming his pardon, and extolling the unmerited goodness of the king-just as the grand procession was forming which was to precede the court to the principal teocalli, where the sacrifices were about to commence. The astonishment and rage of the populace knew no bounds. A moment's pause, like that before the falling of the thunder-bolt, was succeeded by shouts that shook the city to its foundations, and thousands moving as one man by one impulse tore the unhappy captive from his guards, and rushing with him up the broad stair of the teocalli, forced the trembling priests to begin with him the sacrifices which were to propitiate their gods. 
                
               The beautiful lady who had shown so much interest in the fate of Hualco, was the only child of the chief counsellor, Xicote-a sort of Tezcucan Polonius-whose wordly policy had induced him to adhere to the dominant interest, and to betroth his daughter to the usurper, for whose sake she was educated in seclusion, according to the custom of the country. It was thus that Hualco had met her in his wanderings; and it was owing to her high rank and her position as the future wife of the sovereign, that she had been able-after she had half unconsciously imbibed an interest in the royal wanderer-to find access to him under circumstances which would have made it impossible to another. Detesting Maxtla, yet knowing her fate inevitable, she believed herself but indulging a sentiment of womanly pity when she interposed to save the young prince whom fortune had first thrown in her way; but when she found herself at liberty, and this same prince an humble suitor at her feet, we need not wonder that she discovered in him all the excellencies which his fine face and gallant bearing had led her to imagine; nor that Hualco, thus accomplished, and quite as much in love as ever, should be successful in his suit. His marriage with the charming Faraltzin afforded a new occasion for rejoicing to his people; and, through a long and happy life, the pupil of Atahuilpa maintained the character which that excellent guardian had laboured to establish, and his history remains on record as that of the greatest and best monarch his country ever knew. He established wise laws-encouraged intellectual and scientific progress among his people, both by institutions of great magnitude and by his own example-executed many costly works for the convenience and embellishment of his capital-dispensed his immense revenues with the utmost munificence-brought agriculture to such perfection, that during his reign not a spot, however rude or inaccessible, was left uncultivated; and above all, and what is most surprising, he not only discouraged the human sacrifices which were universal in that region, but built a temple 'to the unknown God-the cause of causes'-in which he allowed no image of any kind, saying, 'These idols of wood and stone can neither hear nor feel; much less could they make the heavens and the earth, and man the lord of it. These must be the work of the All-powerful, unknown God, Creator of the universe.' 
               We might have carried into many more particulars the character of our hero, whom, now that we speak of him historically, we must call by his real but most unmanageable name of Nezahualcoyotl, but our readers will find a most copious and interesting history of his life and reign in that delightful book, Prescott's 'Conquest of Mexico;' and if there be any yet who have not read it, we recommend to them to finish out our imperfect sketch of the great emperor of Tezcuco, by an attentive perusal of the whole story, which we acknowledge to have been slightly altered in passing through our hands. 
             
             
                
               MISTAKES FROM EXPERIENCE. 
               (A SKETCH FROM LIFE.) 
               AN old bachelor friend of ours-one of the few, in this steaming age, who can yet find time for quiet chat-sometimes spends a good long evening without any particular object but talk-reminiscences of days long past, or sage reflections on life and character-the fruit of varied experience and strong human sympathy. He has been a great traveller, and has seen specimens of nearly all the races of men; and one of the most amusing of his speculations is the comparison of character among them-coming invariably to the conclusion, that whatever the variety of physiognomy, stature, habits, climate, or religion, they are all alike in the main. The worst of all this is, that Mr. Stafford's conviction is decidedly adverse to the existence of any virtue in this great human family. He has a sad opinion of them all, though practically he has more personal attachments than any body else. He believes nothing good of the race, though his confidence in individuals is boundless. In vain may one try to reason from the smaller to the greater, and prove that where so many possess the virtues which he is in the habit of ascribing to them, a fair conclusion may be drawn as to the goodness of others. The truth is, his nature is as generous as his philosophy is erroneous; and personal intercourse and kind treatment make him overrate the virtues of those with whom he lives, as some unfortunate associates abroad have given a dark tinge to his impressions of human nature in general. 
               We never can agree as to this matter; and evening after evening passes, in the vain attempt to reconcile views far as the poles asunder. The last time the subject came up, Mr. Stafford undertook to give me a single instance which, he said, ought to go far towards justifying his opinion of mankind in general. I promised to listen, but not to be convinced; and he proceeded as follows with his recital: 
               'In the village where I was born and bred-a quiet little place, nestled deep among the hills of Vermont-there was a clergyman, one of the most saint-like, in his life and conversation, that I have ever known. His wife was a meek, quiet woman; amiable to a fault, yet not deficient in that power which affection supplies for the performance of duty. If she had been single, she would probably have appeared a weak woman; but with the ever-present aid of her husband's wisdom, and the strong stimulus of the domestic affection, she filled her place in life so well that no one found fault with her, even in a country village. This excellent couple had only two children, a son and daughter; and it is of the son that I am about to give you my recollections. 
               'He was a handsome boy, tall, and elegantly proportioned, and scarcely less delicate in his features and complexion than his sister, who was a year or two older. They were always together, and it seemed as if the benign influence of such a temper as Lucy's must have a power over him for good; yet, from their very school-days, when they trudged along the road together, with their sachels, he was her torment; and at home, where an only son is so naturally an idol, even his mother learned to dread the sight of his returning face. His pranks were, in some respects, those which belong to boyhood; but there was ever a touch of malice, selfishness, or cruelty about them, and a more expert deceiver never lived. When he played a trick upon the schoolmaster, it was sure to be one that inflicted real injury, either in person or clothing; and the school-fellow who offended him, or refused to join in any of his nefarious schemes, would always find reason to remember that he had made an enemy of Harry Gilmore. To conceal his misconduct, and to make the blame fall on others, required all his art; and his influence over his sister was so unbounded, that he not unfrequently forced her to aid him in subterfuges which her pure heart told her were unjustifiable. 
               'With all Harry's powers of deception, however, he was not able to blind the eyes of his parents, or indeed of any body else, as to his real character. Though it seemed impossible to convict him, in any particular instance, of culpable misconduct, there was yet a general impression of his evil qualities, which made him shunned by all but kindred spirits; and the grief of his father and mother, though silent, was extreme, even to the shortening of life as I believe-certainly, to the destruction of happiness. His father, after using every means which affection and sound judgment could devise, ceased to attempt the direction of his course; and when, at length, Harry was expelled from his college, before the close of the second year, the good clergyman was stricken with paralysis, and in a few days, laid in the tomb of his fathers. 
               'Harry seemed for the moment sobered by this event, which followed too close upon his disgrace not to seem at least connected with it. He treated his mother with what appeared real affection; and to Lucy, innocent and trusting as she was, the change wrought in Harry by her father's death, seemed to mitigate the sense even of that great calamity. 
               'But this gleam of comfort was short. It very soon became evident that Harry's good conduct was only the prelude to depredations upon Mrs. Gilmore's slender means, and a subtle scheme to get Lucy more than ever in his power. He had professed an attachment to a very beautiful girl, belle of our village, whose brother had previously engaged Lucy's affections; and upon Harry's visits being discouraged by the father of the young lady, on the score of his character, he so wrought upon his sister that she discarded her lover, and made a solemn promise that she would never again listen to his addresses. I could not recount to you the circumstances of this whole affair. They were the talk of the village, and they are deeply impressed upon my memory; but I will only tell you the tragical close. The young man who was thus disappointed where he had treasured up his heart, perhaps discouraged the more by a knowledge of Harry's character, left the place and sailed for the West Indies. In a few weeks came the intelligence that the ship was lost, with every soul on board; and from that time poor Lucy Gilmore failed and faded like an autumn rose, gradually growing paler and more melancholy till she was laid beside her father. 
               'You may suppose that even Harry was shocked by this dreadful result of his machinations. If he was, none ever knew it. He showed a decorous grief at his sister's death, and, perhaps, really felt her loss; but it had no effect upon his conduct. He continued to strip his mother of everything that could minister to his idleness, even until the neighbours became aware that Mrs. Gilmore often suffered for the ordinary comforts. He undertook no business for his own support, but passed his time, while at home, in hunting and fishing-usually sending the produce of his sport to the young ladies of the village, with whom he was very desirous of being a favourite. 
               'All this time he had been carrying on a clandestine correspondence with the girl whose father had first refused his advances. It seemed as if he had the art of imbuing every one connected with him with the habit of dissimulation; for this unfortunate girl, blameless in all else, was so completely blinded to duty, prudence, and all that should restrain from evil, as to marry him privately, before even the suspicion of such a step had occurred to her family. 
               'The marriage was soon discovered, and the young wife was obliged to seek shelter with her mother-in-law. What was endured in that sad household none can tell; for Harry's influence was too powerful to allow anything to transpire. But that there was suffering of some sort-perhaps of various kinds-the faces of the mother and her young daughter-in-law too surely told. The father was a hard old man, justly indignant at the injury he had received, and unjustly determined to visit all upon his daughter, who was only the easy dupe of a villain. So things went on from bad to worse, until Harry suddenly disappeared, leaving his mother and his wife to all the horrors of poverty. They made the best of their wretched situation-perhaps rather relieved of a burthen than deprived of a protector-and contrived, by the aid of a small school, and such needle-work as could be had, to support life and to maintain a decent appearance; while they tried to persuade the neighbours-and perhaps themselves, too-that Harry had gone away determined to find some business which should render their exertions unnecessary. 
               'The truth was, though I did not know it until long afterwards, that Harry had been soon tired of his too easy conquest, and had shown his wife the most cutting neglect for some time before he left her. He had lived upon his mother's small means until acre after acre was gone; and even the household furniture, piece by piece, had been sacrificed to his determined self-indulgence. Finding his wife's father inexorable, and seeing that the penury to which he had reduced his family, admitted no further exaction, he set out to try the world at large, but without the smallest idea of making any exertion towards an honest livelihood, or the most remote intention of returning to the relief of those he had injured. They, poor souls! toiled on, meekly enduring their hard fate, and trying to excuse the scoundrel who had brought them to it, while the old father, almost as bad as he, hardened his heart against the poor girl, and saw her and her baby suffering for the ordinary comforts of life, without a relenting feeling. Happily the poor little one soon died, adding one more to the list of Harry's victims. 
               'Much of what I am now telling you I learned long afterwards, for I was travelling abroad, and had not seen Harry Gilmore since we were boys together. I knew of his marriage, and the anger of his wife's father; and my friends had written me something of his misconduct, and, at last, of his sudden disappearance. After travelling on the continent for a year or two, I went to England, and there, at the house of an American friend, I was most disagreeably surprised to meet Harry Gilmore-handsome, well-dressed, and exceedingly well-received in a highly respectable circle. Nobody danced so well, and no one was in higher favour with the ladies. He seemed quite at home in England, while I was as much a stranger. 
               'You may be surprised that I did not at once unmask my unworthy townsman; but you must bear in mind what I have already mentioned, that the particulars of Harry's career were then unknown to me. My general impression was unfavourable; and I had such an instinctive dislike to him, founded upon early recollections, that I did all in my power to avoid him. But fate, or perhaps his own manuvres, threw him constantly in my path; and so plausible was his address, and so elegant were his manners, that I was insensibly drawn into a closer companionship with him than I could have believed possible on our first meeting. He had no ostensible occupation, and I was at the time a complete idler, and in poor health, and so found his society only too agreeable. 
               'We had been playing billiards at a new table in the Quadrant, Regent street, when Harry proposed that we should go and dine at a restaurant, in Leicester square,  la Francaise, to which I did not object. Over our wine he asked me whether I had ever seen one of the gaming-houses at the West End. I said no, and he offered to try whether he could not get into one in St. James' street. I assented, and after our coffee we set out. I had taken wine enough to exhilarate without confusing me; and my curiosity with regard to these "hells," had often been excited before, so that I was much pleased with the idea of piercing the forbidden haunts. Yet, I confess, when Harry applied for admittance-when the door was partially and carefully opened, and when it was evident that, at the sight of my companion, the door-keeper had no scruples as to taking down the chain, my heart began bumping most unusually, and I wished myself anywhere else. Harry was evidently well-known there, and at a cooler moment the duplicity he had practised upon me would have excited my indignation. But the scene was too intensely interesting at the time, to allow a thought for anything else. I passed under a close scrutiny from the Cerberus of the establishment, whose experienced eye detected the novice, and who willingly allowed me to pass, as a fresh pigeon, from whose breast might come at least some down for this nest of vice. Harry led the way to an apartment where they were playing hazard; he commenced playing at once, and endeavoured to induce me to join him. I declined. He played on, and had soon lost what money he had brought with him. I lent him a few sovereigns; they went also. I found my amusement in watching the faces of the players; and so vividly were the various passions depicted in them, that even at this distant day I can recall every man's countenance with its changes of expression. 
               'Finding me determined not to play, Harry gave over, after borrowing all the gold I had about me, and we found ourselves again in the street. I cannot express to you my sensations on once more breathing the fresh, unpolluted air of evening. I fairly ran and leaped with the sense of relief, and, in the excitement of my spirits, gave my companion abundance of good counsel against ever trusting himself in such a place again. He heard me quietly, and, no doubt, laughed as quietly at my simplicity. 
               'Two years elapsed before I saw Gilmore again. It was in Paris, and I was turning into the Palais Royal from the Rue St. Honor, when I met him with a very pretty girl hanging on his arm. He was dressed very fashionably, and looked handsomer than ever. He gave me his card in passing, and invited me to call on him. This I was not disposed to do; but it was only a day or two before we met again, and he insisted upon my dining with him at his lodgings. He was with an English lady, who lived in the Alle des Veuves, Champs Elyses-a lady who, having but a small income, took two or three boarders to eke it out. The pretty girl, with whom he was walking, was the daughter of this lady, and a sweeter or more innocent creature I never saw. She and her mother (who was a well-bred and amiable woman) evidently placed the greatest confidence in Harry; and I soon saw that he stood where he should not in the affections of the daughter. If this had been less clear to me, Gilmore would soon have given me all requisite information; for the first time he warmed with wine, he made me his confidant, telling me that this charming girl loved him to distraction, and that her mother looked favourably upon his suit. He added, that he had mentioned something to Mrs. S-, the mother, of my knowing his connexions in America, and that he hoped I would not refuse to speak a good word for him, as I was pretty well known to several families then resident in Paris. 
               'I heard him out, although it was with difficulty. When he had done, I told him just what I thought of him, and what I meant to do in the premises. I threatened to make his villainy so public, that he should not only not be able to attempt the like again, but even to show his face in society. Words ran high; he defied me, and laughed at my threats. We were in the street, and just at the shooting-gallery, into which I turned. There no one there. I walked to the front of the target, the garon handed me a pistol, thinking we were about to practice. I looked at Harry; he was deadly pale, and his quivering lip betrayed his agitation. "Take my advice," said I. "You know I have no wish to expose you. Leave Paris, without delaying longer than to get your passports, and I will make the best excuse I can for your disappearance. But I declare to you, that sooner than you should perpetrate the crime you meditate, I will serve you as I now serve that image-" and I pointed to a small plaster cast of Napoleon, placed as a mark in the centre of the target. I raised my arm-pulled-and shivered the figure to atoms. It was a lucky shot. Gilmore paused-he looked at me, and read my unalterable determination in my face. We left the gallery in silence, and that night I had him sleeping at my hotel, with his place booked for Havre on the next morning. 
               'His desertion cost Miss S. a fit of sickness, and I know not what of unhappiness beside. I revealed only so much of Harry's true character as might serve to put her and her mother on their guard for the future. I did not wish to destroy him, and I was even at that time ignorant of all his guilt. I lost sight of him from that time; but when I returned to my native place, after many years' absence, I learned the consistent close of his career. He heard that his wife's father had, on his death-bed, repented of his harshness, and fully believing that Gilmore would never return, had left the unhappy daughter her natural share of his property. Upon this, Harry lost no time in turning his face homeward, determined not to let this unexpected prosperity escape him. He wrote to his wife and his mother, one of those artful epistles, so well adapted to 'make the worse appear the better reason;' glozing over his misdeeds, and expressing such delight at being able, once more, to rejoin those from whom his heart had never been separated, that those good women were melted to tears, and longed to welcome the repentant wanderer. But, most happily, Providence interposed in their behalf; for Gilmore, being in too great haste to wait for the regular conveyance, hired a horse at the nearest town, and riding at a dashing pace down hill, fell and broke his neck, just in time to prevent the second and hopeless ruin of his wife and mother. Now, what do you think of such a specimen of human nature?' 
               'Black enough, indeed,' I replied, 'but not at all to your purpose.' 
               'Not to my purpose! What would you have?' 
                
               Why, you have told me of one degraded wretch and half a dozen excellent people! How does your theory dispose of the good clergyman and his wife-poor Lucy and her faithful lover-the patient wife-the amiable Mrs. S. and her too deserving daughter, and yourself, with all your benevolent indignation? Instead of ten righteous to save a multitude of sinners, here is but one sinner to a host of good people. You must acknowledge that even the extreme case you have selected, tells against you.' 
               Mr. Stafford looked at his watch, and declared in the same breath that it was eleven o'clock, and that I was incorrigible. 
             
             
                
               RECOLLECTIONS OF RURAL LIFE IN THE WEST. 
                
                  I. 
                  THE JUSTICE. 
                  SOME people think litigation an evil, but not a few in the Western country seem to count it among their pleasures. The calm tenor of rural life is seldom interrupted by anything in the way of amusement, that is to say, of what the uneducated world calls amusement. Day succeeds day with scarce a variation in toil; and the Sabbath is spent either in a continuation of the same toils, in the pursuit of game, or in cold attendance on some place of worship whence all that is beautiful and attractive, whether in sights or sounds, is shut out, and a poor, barren, lifeless or fanatical presentation of religion too often the only resource. The substitute for music on such occasions is the nasal twang caught of some itinerant singing-master, one of a class of people who may be said to infest the back country. This music, being destitute of all that moves the soul or excites the fancy, scarcely deserves the name. 
                  As for beauty to delight the eye, it abounds everywhere out of doors. Rich foliage; a resplendent sky seen through an atmosphere of Italian transparency; silver streams and lakes at every turn; overflowing fertility that makes the fields 'to laugh and sing' -all these, and more than we can enumerate, are there-but where is the taste which can enjoy such things, and appropriate them, and incorporate them, day by day, with the very being? Where no culture is, a taste for the beautiful, though not wholly extinct in any human heart, is obscure and almost impotent. You remark, 'A fine sunset?' 'Yes;' will be the reply, 'I hope we an't goin' to have rain till after the wheat's in.' 'What a beautiful view!' you say again. 'Poor property, though,' will be the response. The unopened mind is ignorant alike of its needs and its capabilities. It feels indeed a lack of something essential, and it tries to supply the want by-what? reading? watching the chasing clouds? listening to the music of brook and bird? Ah no! it tries whiskey, perhaps; or tobacco, or camp-meeting, or election, or-a lawsuit. It would have faith in culture, if it knew what culture is. It would sometimes find consolation and interest in religion, if religion were presented as Christ presented it to those who came about him, in simplicity under the open sky. But for lack of what should be, it accepts what should not be. Mere animal excitement-nay, even the rousing of the angry and destructive passions, is preferred to apathy. 
                  This is the only method in which we are able to account for the frequency of petty lawsuits, where law is dear and land cheap; where cattle may pasture upon 'a thousand hills,' like the herds of the patriarchs, without trenching upon anybody's rights; where 'grass grows and water runs' unclaimed by anybody but the government, which disturbs no one; and, above all, where the most valuable of all earthly possessions is time, since that alone is wanting to do all that must needs be done before the wilderness can blossom as the rose, and where the price of a man's day is therefore higher than in almost any other part of the world. Yet, all these utilitarian rian considerations will not hinder the most pains-taking, money-scraping, penurious, old clod-compeller, from going to law about a length of fence-a stick of timber-the right to water cattle in a particular spot-the price of a plough-point, or the setting of a saw. It is surprising to see the energy and perseverance that will be wasted in this way. The man who could not be persuaded to mend a broken latch to keep the cows out of the garden, or to stop a leak that lets the rain in upon his bed, is the very one who will be punctual as the sun at the Justice's Court, whether his own cause is coming on or not; as anxious to see the side he espouses come off the triumphant winner of fifty cents, as if the title to his own farm hung upon the result. And long observation has convinced us that, in a majority of such cases, mere longing for excitement is the moving cause-one which can be remedied only by the sedulous introduction of means of real solid culture among this people, too able, too noble, to bear the stagnation of ignorance without some effort, however insane, for mental action. 
                  The Justice's Court is held sometimes in the tavern, sometimes (rarely) in the school-room, but usually near the domestic hearth-in the family-room, where the Lares and Penates may sit in judgment, if they will, on the decisions of their protg. The mother gathers up her sewing and her babies, brushes the hearth, puts the table in its place, and then withdraws to the 'bed-room''-not but the Justice's Court has a bed in it, too, as that is considered no disqualifying circumstance. (Q. did the 'lit de justice' arise from some primitive custom of the sort?) There the dame sits, jogging the cradle and darning the stockings; coming into court now and then, to look for her scissors, or to skim the pot which sings over the fire, the lawyers and witnesses civilly making way for her, unless the stage of pleadings is too absorbingly interesting to allow them to observe her presence. The baby may cry, or Johnny fall down and break 'his precious nose,' nobody calls 'silence!' since that is past hoping for. If the older and more unruly of the children will hang about too pertinaciously, the Justice may call out, now and then, 'Mother,' can't you take these "young 'uns" away? they bother me!' 
                  And the mother calls, and they obey-if they have a mind to. 
                  The Justice's Court being held in this unceremonious sort of way, nothing is easier than to get sight of one at any time when a cause of any interest is coming on. Such causes excite a good deal of attention in the neighbourhood, and, as we have before said, draw together all the men, of whatever occupation. By the convenient vicinity of the 'bed-room,' the lady of the public functionary may hold her leve at the same time as the court, and give her gossips the advantage of all the pleadings, as well as of the earliest knowledge of the decision. If the parties are well-off, they generally employ young lawyers from the neighbouring villages, and these, called to plead before a plain, and often very ignorant farmer, delight in not only throwing learned dust into his eyes, by the use of Latin more barbarous even than that of the law-books, but also in tickling his ears by the incessant repetition of 'Your Honour!' a sound delicious in proportion to its novelty, and the shortness of the period during which it will probably be enjoyed,-justice-ships shifting like the clouds, where all are equally anxious for the office and equally eligible to it. 
                  As may be supposed, under these circumstances, decisions are often so monstrously unjust and improper, that the whole public voice cries out at once against them; in which case a new trial is inevitable, and more disappointment follows, both parties growing more angry as the dispute proceeds, and as the result appears less certain. Testimony, in bringing forward new points, brings up old grievances; treachery is developed, party feelings are raised, family secrets dragged to light; and the end of all is, too often, sorely-wounded feelings, life-long enmity, and perhaps secretly-nourished schemes of revenge. Some, to be sure, look at a law-suit as a sort of game, and take the winning or losing as coolly as if it were only at their favourite 'checkers;' but it is rare to see two men who can shake hands heartily after a law-suit, and turn off the matter with a laugh. 
                  Much mischief is done by a mean, unscrupulous class of lawyers, not a whit behind those whose venomous faces haunt the Tombs, lying in wait for the unwary and the wretched. In a country which is the land of golden promise for adventurers, it is not to be wondered at that this kind of harpy should find entrance and support, even in a quiet and honest community. Such infest every society where law as a profession has been established-witness Dickens' account of Messrs. Dodson and Fogg, who incited Mrs. Bardell to sue for breach of promise, promising to do their part 'on spec,' and then throwing her into prison for the costs. A case of this kind which fell under our knowledge, shows that law-rogues are identical, everywhere. 
                  A man who was known as an exceedingly rude, quarrelsome and litigious fellow, complained that several acres of his 'mash' were flooded by the setting-back of the water of a mill which had just been built in the neighbourhood. As the fact was evident, the owner of the mill offered compensation, and proposed to submit the amount to arbitration. This was indignantly rejected. The land had cost its possessor ten shillings per acre, bought of the government. It was wet land, always, and useless except for mowing, when the hay would bring perhaps five dollars annually. But the price demanded was considerably over one hundred dollars the acre. This being out of the question, the mill-owner resolved to let the law decide the matter, whenever his neighbour should see fit to sue, as he loudly threatened to do. 
                  At this stage of the proceedings, a lawyer of the class to which we have alluded, hearing of the angry talk of the litigant, succeeded in making him believe that it was easy for him to oblige the owner to pay the thousand dollars demanded, or take down his mill-an alternative always insisted upon in the course of these discussions. Thus excited, the man, keen enough in most matters, was so blind as to begin by giving the lawyer,-who professed to be entirely disinterested but wishing security for form's sake, though he promised never to demand payment if unsuccessful,-a lien upon part of his farm, quite secure that what he was to gain would make him too rich to care for a farm-his lawyer assuring him that the mill, then in full operation, would eventually fall into his hands. 
                  The delays of the law deferred the trial for some time. The threats were louder than ever, and the lawyer more assiduous as the cause was deferred; the passions of the quarreller became more exasperated, and the cunning tempter at his ear offering fresh hopes, piece after piece of his farm was mortgaged for costs of suit. Meanwhile the mill-owner, not being very sure that justice would have her bandage on when the time of trial came, felt anxious to settle the matter without a resort to her ladyship; and taking a friend with him, and a bag containing two hundred and fifty silver dollars, (those being the days of 'Wild-Cat Banks,') by way of tangible evidence of his desire for a settlement, called once more on his loud-talking neighbour, and made a final effort at an adjustment, though at a cost which judicious people thought five times the worth of the land in question. This offer was rejected with scorn, and the old alternative of-'a thousand dollars or take down your mill'-was repeated as the ultimatum. 
                  But at this time of rapid emigration, when the building of mills was felt to be the making of the country, while the evil complained of in this case-the flooding of more land than was allowed for in the formation of ponds-gave rise to frequent litigation by sharpers, it had been found necessary to take the circumstances of the case into consideration in deciding similar causes, lest, as there were few scientific mill-wrights, whose knowledge would secure their employers against these unlucky accidents, the erection of mills should be checked, and so great evil ensue. When the matter did at last come to trial, therefore, and lawyers were heard on both sides, the Court awarded seventeen dollars damages to J. M., being the value of the hay which he might have cut from his marsh in three years during which the trespass had existed. This literal mode of valuation is usual at the West, or was so when the country was new. Several fine shade trees placed about a rustic seat, having been maliciously cut down, they were valued at the price of the timber, which in that region was about fifty cents. A favourite dog shot by an enemy, avowedly to injure the owner, was considered worth nothing-'It was so easy to get another!' 
                  In six months from that time, J. M. was turned off his farm by his lawyer and the store-keeper who had furnished his family with goods during the time when he neglected his business to pursue his law-suit; and he disappeared from the neighbourhood to begin the world anew, further west, with the axe on his shoulder almost his sole possession. 
                  The owner of the mill now wished to buy the flowed land of the store-keeper, into whose hands it had fallen; but it was too precious a bone of contention to be given up at any price. He preferred ferred holding it, not knowing, as he said, what might happen; that is to say, looking forward to some snug bit of litigation in future. So we may hear of it again some day. 
                  The suits brought in Justices' Courts are often ludicrously small in their commencements, though they not unfrequently become formidable before they are finished. We have seen a suit for seventy-five cents swell to a hundred dollars on each side, and the litigants, bull-dog like, as loth to quit their hold as ever. Mere passionate quarrels, leading to blows, are common ground of law-suits, the combatants sometimes pleading each his own cause in person. Cases occur in which women are brought in as witnesses, and these are generally uncommonly rich ones, affording talk for miles round long after. The ladies are even occasionally the heroines of court-scenes, being 'bound over to keep the peace,' when they have been too belligerent in act or threat. The poor husband cuts a melancholy figure on these occasions. 
                
                
                  II. 
                  THE DOCTOR. 
                  YOUR country doctor is a most important personage. Besides the instinctive deference with which we are apt to regard skill of all kinds, uncultivated people have a superstitious reverence for medicine, as an occult agent-a something of mysterious powers; not producing results by any known rule, but depending for success upon various contingencies, such as 'the time of the moon,' the 'sign,' or even the 'turn of the tide.' The doctor, therefore, who deals with these secret powers, is looked upon somewhat in the light of an astrologer. His words and looks are anxiously watched, that they may be repeated afterwards in whispering conclaves of old women, who draw auguries from them which they deliver with mysterious signs, shrugs, and castings up of the eyes, enough to make one's blood run cold. Every country neighbourhood has its knot of these crones; so that where the doctor does not happen to be an old woman himself, ten to one but his prescriptions are marred, his opinion disputed, and the patient killed by the interference of ignorance and superstition. 
                  Simplicity of prescription is considered proof presumptive against the skill of a country physician. If he recommended but a single drug, especially if that is one which has lost its claim to reverence by familiarity, his knowledge is contemned at once. This is not a frequent fault, however. Country physicians seldom err in doing too little. The energy of their practice is terrific; their bleedings and blisterings would tax the powers of the strongest constitution, even without the additional trial of disease. Their prescriptions, too, are often most complicated, perhaps in order to conciliate the synod of old ladies, who have no faith in any recipe that does not profess to contain one 'healing' ingredient, one 'drawing' one, one 'cooling,' one 'warmin' like,' one 'strengthenin',' and one 'good for the heart,' not to speak of various other properties of equal importance. 
                  The prognosis of the country doctor is almost always unfavourable. Whether he is by nature and recollection of ill success, a man of a depressed and gloomy temperament, or whether he adopts what he may think a justifiable method of enhancing his reputation in case the patient happen to get well-the shaking of his head is always portentous. He is sorry he was not called in earlier; but he will do what he can-! These things are sometimes pretty manageable, but no one can tell what turn they may take! He has often known a cut finger to produce lock-jaw, or a bruised knee mortify! 
                  Your country doctor is no bland, smooth-shaven person, but, on the contrary, exposure to all weathers in his long rides, makes his face rugged and sailor-like, while the necessity of obtaining obedience gives a loud and dictatorial tone to his voice. He comes in with a business-like air, throws his saddle-bags on the floor with a thump, and asks after the patient, as if sickness were a fault. When he enters the sick room, it is not with a tender step and a sad countenance, but as if he were in a hurry, and must use all possible dispatch. Yet he will sit long enough for a comfortable visit if he can hear any news or find a good listener; for he is, after all, usually a man of leisure, (except in ague seasons,) and his air of hurry is simply a little device of self-importance. His practice is often a curious mixture of skill and blunder-the skill being principally empirical, the fruit of mother-wit and long experience; while the blundering is due to an occasional attempt to theorize, with no earthly preparation for such aspiring. Beware of the country doctor who has a system! Better trust him who will tell you of a remedy which old Doctor So-and-so, with whom he learnt his business, 'said he had never known to fail in such cases.' That will not be likely to kill you, at least. 
                
                
                   
                  III. 
                  THOUGHTS ON DOMESTIC SERVITUDE. 
                  
                     [Occurring while the writer was trying to kindle a fire and get breakfast, during a fit of ague, the 'help' having gone off in dadgeon the evening before.]
                   
                  THERE is undeniably a great deal of work to be done in this world-a great deal of coarse, dirty business. The very necessities of life-putting luxuries out of the question-the bare necessities of life require daily labour of a character uncongenial to anything like refinement of habits. The grand struggle, ever since Babel, has been, who should not do this work. Those who have had the power have always found somebody on whom to put it off; and it would be hard to show that those who have been induced to undertake it, have been made miserable by the mere labour. Where they have been an unhappy class, the cause must be sought in the evil tempers of their employers, and not in the bare accident of position. Involuntary servitude is, of course, a condition in whose favour nothing can be said; but voluntary labour, in the shape of floor-scrubbing and dinner-cooking, is no more oppressive or degrading in itself than the building of houses or the tarring of ropes. As to rank, performing a mechanical business for which one is paid, as surely excludes you from the supper-parties of your employer as would the preparation of the dainties there displayed; and why? Because the man to whose comfort or pride you contribute, and who in his turn assists to support your family, despises you? By no means. But his associations are different-we say not superior; that shall be either an open or a relinquished point- but different; and an attempt to force union where separation is instinctive, would be productive of pleasure to neither party. Yet each, in proportion to his mental enlargement, feels abundant respect for the good qualities of the other. And I can perceive but little difference between this case and that of one who is hired to perform certain services in a family. A comfortable support and kind treatment, are the proper return for the activity and probity which the well-principled domestic feels to belong to his part of the compact. If there be a difference in the cases, it is only that the household employ, being by closer contact more continually reminded of the distinction between the employer and himself, is under greater temptation to the weakness of false pride and the sin of envy, and has therefore a claim to a greater measure of forbearing kindness. 
                  The philosophy of life is nowhere so complicated as in the United States, where people have one set of maxims for theory and another for practice; where they maintain most vehemently doctrines akin to those of the Stoics, yet find Epicurean habits essential to their happiness. What plausible and shining webs are woven from the axiom that all men are and forever should be equal in all things! How easy is it to show (on paper) that distinctions in society are neither necessary nor proper; that it must be a reprehensible pride which would make any difference between the labourer and the artist-the philosopher and his butcher-the architect and the hod-carrier! Fine-spun theories like these may be so cunningly devised, that no flaw shall be discoverable to the logician; yet one touch of plain, practical common sense, shall send them flying like a disturbed reverie. The moment we assent to the proposition that there shall be no distinctions in society, we decide that every body shall be engaged in menial labour. To have a class for that purpose is a contradiction in terms. Menial labour implies soiled clothes-coarse fingers-a stout and tasteless dress-a mind occupied with petty details. This at once annihilates all exterior refinement; and whatever does this, extinguishes the arts, and reduces man to the condition of the savage. And this is the state of things which some people recommend to our complacent contemplation! 
                  Nations, like individuals, have their weak points, and this is ours. It is the duty of good citizens not to encourage national delusions, but to contribute, if possible, to the general enlightenment. The diffusion of the better kinds of knowledge, is directly calculated to abate the evils which have arisen in the relation of master and servant; and I contend that those who present this subject in a romantic and impracticable light, are contributing to retard the progress of the philosophy of life in a very important particular. I think those who hold the ready pen, would be more usefully employed in showing that the contract between the hirer and the hiree, in the matter of domestic service, is a definite bargain, two-sided like any other, binding both parties with equal force, and no more authorizing hatred and envy on one side than haughtiness and rudeness on the other, than in informing the damsel who glances at the Knickerbocker while she is dusting the parlor, that 'far from exacting servants being a cause of complaint, they should be looked upon as indications of a happy and prosperous condition of human affairs!' And we are called upon too to be thankful that 'we live in a land where men must be their own servants, since every man can and will be his own master!' As rationally might a watchmaker rejoice that he lived where men were too independent to make springs and balance-wheels, since they could and would show their good sense by making dial-plates and hands only! We used to believe in the advantages of a division of labour; and there is a musty proverb which says, 'Order is Heaven's first law:' but the schoolmaster has been abroad in our land, and 'nous avons chang tout cela!' 
                  Let us use what influence we may possess on the right side in this matter. Let us not, for the sake of popularity, say foolish things, nor for the sake of selfishness say wicked ones. Let the matter be looked at practically, and not with an utter disregard to human nature and human experience. If one would be fitted thoroughly for an enlightened contemplation of this important relation, let him come to the West, and sift the matter to its foundation. Here, where every body is independent, because so little is really necessary, the bargain is all on one side; the 'help' claims the pas in all things; the mistress holds the baby while the 'help' takes tea first (when there is company), by way of improvement upon the daily practice of eating and drinking in the closest juxtaposition; if the table be not of patriarchal dimensions, the children of the family must wait, in order that hired men and maids may eat with the employer, on pain of instant departure. This is the true college for the instruction of theorists on this subject. Here is my Huldah, who flung out of the house because she was requested to refrain from singing in the room with a sick child. She wasn't going to be any body's slave, to be ordered about! Let her go! I can get my own breakfast! 
                  [Here a violent shake oversets the tea-kettle, which puts the fire quite out. Baby cries; an unfeeling child asks for breakfast, and says it is past nine o'clock. The cat runs off with the chicken ready for broiling, and the fowls in a body attack the bread-tray. The cow puts her head in at the door, wondering why she is not milked. Curtain falls.] 
                
                
                   
                  IV. 
                  STEPS TO RUIN. 
                  (NOT PECULIAR TO THE WEST.) 
                  THERE was a youth in a certain Western district, the son of very strict parents, who had brought him up in what they certainly intended should be 'the nurture and admonition of the Lord.' They sent him to school every winter, and charged the master not to spare the rod if it was needed to make him a good boy; they made him attend Sabbath-school with unerring punctuality, remember every sermon's text, and commit to memory a certain portion of Scripture every Sunday. While he was quite young, they allowed him to play, somewhat like other boys; but when he began to call himself a young man, he found his wish for amusement continually thwarted by his father, whose notions grew more and more rigid with the advance of years, and who was, moreover, under influences which led him to the opinion that all gaiety is sinful. 
                  Now we must pause ere we proceed, to enter a caveat against the imputation that we are inimical to a serious life. It is our heart-felt opinion that there is no other happy life; that no one has yet tasted happiness who doubts this, or has not tried it. What we would hint is, that this life is an inward life, and that to force the outward appearance of it while the heart is unconvinced, is the way to make hypocrites and haters of all good things. It is a contradiction to the whole philosophy of human nature, to suppose that virtue will be the result of force. Even the Almighty Ruler has left the choice to our free-will, giving us at the same time the knowledge of good and evil. It is the sacred duty of parents to guard their children from habits which contravene the laws of God; but when they set up severe and arbitrary rules of their own in addition, they run the risk of such consequences as I am about to describe. 
                  John Hinchley was a well-disposed boy, of considerable quickness of intellect; ruddy, bright-eyed, handsome and well developed. He was a favourite in the neighbourhood, and always invited to the husking, the quilting, the raising, in short, all rustic merry-makings. Contrary to custom, his father often restrained him from accepting these invitations, insisting upon his accomplishing some piece of work which was unfinished, and lecturing him severely upon the feelings which he sometimes exhibited when thus thwarted. Now John was a dutiful son, thus far, and particularly fond of his mother, who, though very strict, was milder than her husband, and would sometimes intercede, on occasions when the old man's objurgations bore too hard upon the son. John was sometimes tempted to deceive both father and mother; but to his credit be it spoken, his conscience punished him so severely for this, that he found such indulgences cost more than they came to; and his thoughts turned rather to the best and earliest means of getting rid of parental restraint altogether. 
                  When he was about nineteen, a blacksmith who lived at some distance made him an offer of business, which his father thought too advantageous to be rejected; and John was sent to a new field of labour, with many earnest charges as to his walk and conversation. But there was a sad discrepancy between the father's exhortations and denunciations, and the circumstances of the case; and John knew this. He knew that his father was perfectly well aware that the neighbourhood to which he was going was a notedly vicious one, and that love of gain was the sole inducement in sending him. This inconsistency-alas! how common a one with the loudest talkers about morals-completely neutralized the effect of the solemn words with which old Hinchley dismissed his son; and although the mother's tears were more effectual, she was weak in judgment, and so had not commanded the respect of her children, as much as she had won their love. 
                  The blacksmith with whom John was to live, was a man of smooth outside, so smooth, indeed, that the young man, whose brain had been almost turned by the prospect of the boundless liberty for which he had been sighing, feared at first that he had fallen into hands no less rigid than his father's, spite of the reputation of the place, which was called 'Hell-gate' by the whole neighbourhood. But it was not long, before, happening to go into the shop at a very early hour, he found his employer and another man, with haggard, anxious faces, and eyes bloodshot and fierce with passion, liquor, and want of sleep, playing cards on a block in one corner, while 'old Hills,' and one or two others who had been looking on, were lying drunk in various positions on the earthen floor. Disguise was out of the question; the blacksmith was not so much intoxicated as not to perceive that excuses would be worse than useless; so he braved it out, and invited John to 'join in the fun.' John did not join-then.
                   
                  From this time the seduction of the unfortunate young man became a settled object with the blacksmith and his companions; and to make his chance the worse, it so happened that old Hills-the most abandoned drunkard in the whole place-had a pretty daughter, whose sad and downcast eye interested John Hinchley far more than the gayer glances of her companions. He became a familiar visitor at her father's, and soon found pity change to love, as he witnessed the sufferings of the young woman, who was really exemplary, as if incited by the vices of those around to practice the industry, self-denial, and reserve which were so miserably deficient at 'Hell-gate.' 
                  It was not long before John and Mary were 'promised,' as they say in the country; and dire was the wrath of John's father at the news. He recalled his son, but it was too late. Home rule was over; new associations had been formed; love exerted its all-powerful sway; and in spite of the tears of the wretched mother, John Hinchley quarrelled with his father, and left the house under his curse, to return to Mary and liberty. Before he was of age he had married Mary Hills, and become a partner of the dissolute blacksmith, who held out the only chance of living at all, though at the expense of all that makes life worth having. 
                  The young couple were really attached, and had good qualities enough to have made their affection serve for a whole life's quiet happiness, if the bosom-talisman of fixed principle had not been wanting. But children came-means were scanty-home was uncomfortable-Mary became cross under penury and ill-health, while John's wicked companions seemed jolly, and declared that they took the world very easy. The blacksmith was one of those sots who do their work well, and who manage, by the aid of an iron constitution, to keep up business and vice together, for a time deceiving both themselves and others as to the final result. John imitated his partner, but with inferior success. His health became disordered; his hand was unsteady; his work did not please; high words often arose between him and the more robust sinner. Friendship cemented only by evil propensities is fleeting as dew; and discord added her fell torch to the remains of poor John's happiness. 
                   
                  Behold him now the fit companion of his father-in-law-him! who had chosen Mary from all the world, because he pitied the wretchedness and loved the virtues of the drunkard's daughter! From one degree of neglect to another-from unkind words to absolute desertion-from finding the children a plague, to the loss of even instinctive affection for them-he fell lower and lower; until, while his eldest child was in the death agony, he could not be persuaded to quit his game of cards. She died-he played on. In vain did the neighbours persuade and shame him; he turned the adder's deafness to their words. When night came he drank deeper than usual, and slept, the deep, swinish sleep of inebriation, on the floor of the shop. The next day the funeral of his child passed on its way to the burial-ground. There were John and his companions still at cards; there was old Hills at his potations; and while everybody was crying shame upon them, they only clung the closer to the indulgences to which alone their now degraded natures looked for happiness. 
                  Happiness! oh profane estimate! fatuity inconceivable! 
                  
                     Guilt's blunder, and the loudest laugh of hell!
                   
                  Wretchedness dogged the steps of John Hinchley and his once lovely Mary; poverty came upon them, and 'want like an armed man.' They have long ago ceased to take their place with others at meeting, or at the social gathering. Their children cannot go to school, for want of decent clothing; their dwelling is falling down for very misery. Man can do nothing for them, since they have the art of turning even benevolence to poison. May God have mercy upon them and upon all such! 
                  If we should be asked, in reference to our description of John's early training, how we would have had it changed; whether we think it better that the stern father should have allowed his son to join in amusements that he disapproved,-we reply: that while we believe it the bounden duty of parents to restrain their children from participation in whatever recreations may seem to them likely to prove injurious, we are sure it is equally incumbent on them to provide for them those which are innocent. And again, while parents are inexcusable if they allow disobedience in their children, they sin deeply if they require this obedience in any other than the spirit of love. Sternness, want of sympathy, and too great rigour of habits at home, drive many a youth to vice, who might have been preserved by watchful love, the care which springs from devoted affection, and the cheerfulness which every young heart craves. Good humour, vivacity, sympathy, benevolence, are not the fruits of an ascetic life; and more especially is compulsory asceticism unfavourable to the cultivation of those amenities on which so much of the comfort, happiness and safety of life depends. 
                  The inconsistency which we notice in the conduct of John Hinchley's father, is a fruitful source of evil in education. The parent who is strict to excess as to many little outward conformities with the world, will yet show himself to be the slave of mammon, or the victim of evil tempers, or the petty tyrant-behind the scenes. How much of the misconduct and unhappiness of young people is the direct fruit of a deficiency of virtue, or sincere effort at virtue in their parents, is an awful thought for many of us. Let us never imagine that any outward strictness can atone for the want of that deep-seated and operative goodness, which alone has the promise of Heaven's blessing upon its efforts, its sacrifices and its hopes. 
                   
                
                
                   
                  
                      
                   
                   
                  V. 
                  THE HARD WINTER. 
                  IT is a common saying, that 'one half the world does not know how the other half lives; but it is a saying which can be understood only by those who do know. To be the occupant of a comfortable city-home, will never give one an idea of the condition of the dwellers in the far country, where everything depends directly upon the operations of nature in their season, and no provision is or can be made-no reservoir provided-for contingencies which affect the very sources of life. We hear of famine in Ireland, and our blood curdles; can we believe that even in our own teeming land a shadow of that famine sometimes arises? Where everything that comfort craves is brought to our doors, it is difficult to conceive that distance is in some cases almost insurmountable, even under the spur of hunger; that when food is within a few miles of us, we can even suffer from want! But many a Western settler can testify how possible it is to be hungry with money in one's purse, and to see the cattle dying of want, while the necessaries of their life are to be found in the next town! Indeed, in the newer districts of the Western country, an uncommon degree of forethought and exertion is required to secure a family against accidental scarcity, even where means are ample. We have known a household accustomed to all the luxury that belongs to the high places of the earth, after having been reduced to Indian-meal as sole subsistence for a full month, hail the coming of a bushel of potatoes as a treat! 
                   
                  Deep snows-long drought-freshets-a broken bridge-a marsh overflowed-a mill-dam broken-either of these will be, in some conjunctures, enough to cause inconvenience, if not distress. Large stores of provisions are impracticable, on so many accounts. Money is scarce; mills, being few, cannot grind fast enough; houses are small, and afford but little storage; business presses, and leads to procrastination. All the circumstances and habits of the country are adverse to that quiet regularity and forecast which a state of struggle with difficulties requires. The result is a dependence upon expedients, almost amounting to recklessness! The only good that comes of it, is a certain brotherliness, the fruit of similar experience. The habit of borrowing becomes second nature; and if the habit of lending is more difficult to learn, it is yet acquired to a commendable degree, in time. Wo to the fastidious! They have nothing to do at the West! They must fly or die! 
                  One of the most prominent of our Western recollections, is the 'hard winter,' with the thought of which we began our article. It succeeded a long drought, and it was snowless. The grass was all dry ere it was cut, and the streams reduced to almost nothing, in some parts of the country. Everything was scarce for man and beast, but upon the poor cattle the distress fell most heavily. The scarcity had been in some degree foreseen, and great numbers were slaughtered late in the autumn; but the lack of snow supervening upon a dry soil, soon added the torments of thirst to the pangs of hunger. Wells became dry; streams in some cases disappeared, and in many instances cattle were driven many miles to water. The poor product of the cloudless summer afforded but little nourishment, so that every day brought a diminution of strength; and many died of thirst because starvation had disabled them from making a journey in order to drink. As the winter advanced, the prospect grew darker and darker. The poor man's single cow, so important to the comfort and even the life of his family, after ceasing to yield her milk, drooped and died in spite of all his efforts. The oxen, often the Western farmer's most valuable possession, wasted away, until it became a mercy to kill them, though their flesh could not be eaten. The only traffic of the district, for a time, was the sale of hides; and flour had become so scarce and dear from the stopping of the mills, that the pittance realized on the poor remains of the cattle that had helped to raise the grain, would hardly buy a week's bread! People who had money, and storehouses, and barns, were yet obliged, in some instances, to send men and horses twenty miles for a trifling amount of fodder. The straw-covering of the sheds was all pulled off and eaten, and it was not uncommon for men to be all day employed in cutting down young maples in the woods, that their cattle might browse upon the tender branches. The general sadness was indescribable, for what touches the farmer's cattle touches his life. 
                  In some countries such a season as this must have been followed by a famine like that of Ireland; but with resources such as ours, the smiles of spring soon caused the distress of winter to be forgotten. Neighbours, fresh from the lessons of common distress, helped each other heartily; and an early and moist spring revived the hopes, and encouraged the efforts of all. 
                  One incident worthy of record was brought forth by this time of trouble. During the period of the stoppage of all accessible mills, the lack of bread threatened to drive the poorer settlers to despair. Those who could go or send to the next large village, could obtain something for themselves, but could hardly venture to share very liberally with others; since a serious, though vague fear of still worse times to come, weighed upon even the better feelings. At this crisis, a man in comfortable circumstances, who had a large stock of flour on hand, gave out that he would sell it only to the poor, in small quantities, and at no advance of price; and disposed in this way of his whole stock. He was not one of those who can sit down contented in the midst of starvation, quieting the faithful summons of conscience with stale maxims of political economy. Be his name blessed, though we dare not mention it here! 
                   
                
             
             
                
               
                   
                
                
               SPRING IN THE WOODLANDS. 
               THOSE who live where the winter is short, or where its course is beguiled by ten thousand alleviations, can scarcely appreciate the interest with which people in the country regard the return of spring. In closely peopled regions, the contrast between the seasons can never be so striking. It is where nature holds undivided reign, that the winter and its bright contrast truly typify death and resurrection. The dense, frozen, sheeted snow, succeeded at once by living green; the dry, brittle trees, softening and swelling with their liberated juices; the birds, so long mute, bursting out into simultaneous song; these give one a sense of spring which is quite unlike the dim perception that reaches the dweller in the stone-ribbed city, where everything belonging to untamed nature, except some narrow strips of the blessed blue sky, is kept as far out of sight and thought as possible. To us of the woods who are accustomed to see the spring in all its loveliness, the return of the month of May is associated with the most delightful and animating images-images, alas! which one must be imaginative, indeed, to be able to recall in their full power under circumstances of so opposite a character. 
               Yet there is a charm about spring even in the city. I have an example in point, and it recognizes a sign of the season as yet unsung by the poets. It was but yesterday that a gay young creature, who has exhausted her taste in combining rich and glowing colours for her winter costume, exclaimed, 'Oh, I do love the spring so dearly! The windows in Broadway are full of new goods, and all so light and lively!' There spoke nature, but it was nature in boddice and stays. That bright-eyed girl, with all her joyous impulses, would be ennuye to the last degree, if you should introduce her to the wild woods, with their endless store of beauty and music. She goes to Thorburn's and to the opera to satisfy the craving that will not be silenced. The woods (except in the vicinity of watering places) are not 'the fashion.' 
               How warmly we hail the indications of spring, where earth and sky furnish the business and regulate the pleasures of all. People talk of the weather everywhere-in town sometimes from idleness or inanity, but in the country it is with the keenest interest. Who watches the clouds, and the wind, and the flight of birds, and the sound of waters, like the farmer? He is an ambulating barometer, and his register is ever interspersed with practical remarks. If you tell him it is a fine day, he replies that it will do pretty well for wheat, but is not warm enough for corn and potatoes; adding with a knowing squint at the sky, that he thinks it is a 'weather-breeder,' for the swallows fly low. The east wind, that sets his teeth on edge, reminds him that a blight may materially affect the mastication of next winter. Even the halo is no matter of moon-shine to him, if it threaten a shower upon his cut buckwheat, or mildew in his cornfield. 
               The delicious green of the wheat-fields is one of the most striking beauties of early spring, especially in the new country. Long before the leaf-buds appear on the trees, or even on the plants of softer fibre, the wheat-fields wear their livery of brightest emerald- a green unequalled in intensity and splendour by any other in vegetation. The wild grass of the country is late in making its way through the unbroken surface; but the fresh soil, mellowed by the labour and the sun of the preceding autumn, nurses the tender blade, and sends it forth, vigorous and beautiful, while the snow yet moistens and tempers the face of the earth. Every soft shower leaves an additional shade of beauty on these fields of promise, and the tall, grey, leafless trees stand in them like aged grandsires among the blooming tribes of a third generation. 
               Gazing on the lovely prospect, you see the shadow, as of a flying cloud passing over it, and looking at the sky you find not a cloud, but a flock of pigeons, and ever and anon other flocks, all sailing northward, with leaders, and scouts, and rearguard, and, if rain be near, a rush of wings, which reminds you of some great waterfall. You can almost fancy you feel a current of air produced by their magnificent motion. If an untimely frost occur, and the wind be keen and biting, you will observe flocks returning southward, not so large and orderly as when in the natural tide of migration, but straggling and slow, evidently feeling pinched, disappointed, and uncomfortable. This always make the farmer sad, who is longing for the beloved plough, which must wait the warming of the soil. 
               In the country we perceive how natural was the veneration of the primitive people for this instrument. In the city we eat bread without thinking of the labour that produced it. In the country our attention is called forcibly to every step of the process; and we cannot but imagine that our farmer, if he had only a little more poetry mixed with his common sense, would still crown the plough with flowers. I wish every tiller of the ground would learn by heart Bryant's exquisite Agricultural ode: 
                  
                      
                        I. 
                        'Far back in the ages 
                        The plough with wreaths was crowned; 
                        The hand of kings and sages 
                        Entwined the chaplet round; 
                        Till men of spoil 
                        Disdained the toil 
                        By which the world was nourished, 
                        And dews of blood enriched the soil 
                        Where green their laurels flourished. 
                     
                      
                        Now the world her fault repairs- 
                        The guilt that stains her story; 
                        And weeps her crimes among the cares 
                        That formed her earliest glory. 
                     
                      
                        II. 
                        The proud throne shall crumble, 
                        The diadem shall wane; 
                        The tribes of earth shall humble 
                        The pride of those who reign; 
                        And War shall lay 
                        His pomp away; 
                        The fame that heroes cherish, 
                        The glory earned in deadly fray 
                        Shall fade, decay, and perish. 
                     
                      
                        Honour waits, o'er all the earth, 
                        Through endless generations, 
                        The art that calls the harvest forth, 
                        And feeds the expectant nations.' 
                     
                  
                
               I think he might follow his plough 'in glory and in joy' repeating such verses, and remembering the while Him who 'feeds the expectant nations' by means of this powerful implement, which the ancients in their darkness ascribed to their favourite Ceres. 
               And such ploughs as our new country farmers have! Virgil never dreamed of the like for strength and facility. Those used for breaking up require three or four yoke of stout oxen; and the pair of arms that keeps this formidable engine true to its furrow, must bear some proportion to the power which drags it. The unbroken ground is one mass of gnarled roots, with here and there one so firmly imbedded, that plough, man, and oxen, are scattered in every direction when the share encounters it. This, in the close neighbourhood of trees and stumps, is business which has at least enough of the elements of danger to make it interesting to those engaged, while to the looker-on it is a most characteristic spectacle-the hardy pioneer actually and literally preparing the way, with his single arm, for future comfort and civilization. Well may we say the 'sacred plough,' and consider its furrows as blessed of Heaven! 
               Even the garden is usually, among these matter-of-fact people, turned up by the plough, which makes sad confusion among rose bushes and lilacs. Yet mothers and maidens are none the less anxious for shrubbery to deck the edges of beet-beds and melon-patches. An old garden-that is one that has been planted two or three years-is considered a treasure and almost a marvel, so customary is it with the lords of the soil to plough up last year's choicest acquisitions and render a new search necessary. Happily it is the fashion to be communicative in this respect, for the idea that the exclusive possession of a thing enhances its value has not yet penetrated simple country noddles. We have seen in older settlements a feeling on this very subject-the exclusive possession of certain rare plants-second only to that gloried in by a certain noble Earl of Bute, who, after spending fifteen hundred pounds to procure an engraving of peculiar excellence, destroyed the plate as soon as seven copies had been made, lest the multiplication of impressions should lessen the value of this work of art. Long may it be before the march of refinement naturalizes this false and mean pride among the simple sons and daughters of the wilderness! Rather may they take for their model that beneficent Providence which has sown their woods and fields so richly with the most exquisite flowers, free to all, and asking only for grateful hearts. 
               It is a general impression that the process of 'breaking up,' bringing to the surface a mass of vegetable matter in a state of partial decomposition, is that which chiefly renders the new country unhealthy. It is difficult to account otherwise for the unwholesomeness of places remote from stagnant waters and whatever else might be unfavourable to health. If this view be correct, it is indeed a severe penalty the earth exacts of those who first render her obedient to their will, in addition to the 'sweat of the brow' which must be paid by all who expect treasures from her bosom. The 'raising' is one of our spring features at the West; for, let the farmer be ever so busy with his own affairs, he can never refuse to aid in setting up the materials which his neighbour has been all winter collecting for his large barn or frame-house. Recreation, with us, wears almost always the form of business, and the raising is considered none the less a frolic that it involves severe and even hazardous effort. The most active man and the laziest repair alike to raisings, where both can equally indulge the ruling taste-one for hard work, the other for idle gossip. A rural feast always concludes the affair, and this is now in most cases, carried forward with sufficient hilarity without the aid of stimulants, which in former days so often led to riot and accident. 
                
               To all that large portion of the West whose intercourse with the older world is carried on through the great lakes, the opening of navigation is a circumstance of the first interest. Philosophize as one may, the closing in of winter is to the Western emigrant fraught with melancholy thought. The idea of thick-ribbed ice walling you out for a full six months from almost all intercourse with friends and relatives-even your letters two weeks old before they reach you-is too much for most of us; and there is a period in the autumn when we never see the evening close without a certain feeling, something like an echo of the old song- 
                      
                        'The wretch beneath the polar sky 
                        So marks his latest sun.' 
                     
                  
                
               How like new life then is the re-opening of the waters, bringing you at once a week or two nearer to those you love! Now the great ebb and flow of human life between the two immense divisions of our country begins again. Crowds of animated figures people the decks and wharves. Hardly emigrants landing, merchants embarking; the former to spread themselves over the wide fields of the West; the latter making their way to the great marts of commerce; every one contributing his share, all unconsciously, perhaps, to a grand result. The principal routes are thronged. 'Westward, ho!' seems the universal cry, and one feels afraid, now and then, lest a vacuum should be left where so much has been withdrawn. This feeling soon disappears, however, if we look at, and listen to, the various groups that compose these moving masses. We perceive that the world has furnished them. Every nation of Europe sends its quota. Every Eastern State swells the amount and the variety in dress, countenance, language and manner, relieves one's fears lest any particular region should have been depopulated to furnish the throng. 
               Nor is the interest created by the sudden motion imparted to the migratory world confined to the great thoroughfares. The lone occupant of the woods has his share of the pleasures imparted by the season. He welcomes the new comer, and rejoices in the diminishing solitude. What topics of conversation, (precious things here as elsewhere); what questions as to the perils of the way; the condition of the friends left behind; the comparative hardness of the times; the numbers of those about to 'start West,' and the prospect of the crops 'out East.' Then, on the other hand, who can doubt that the new comer has at least as much to ask of him who has already gone over the course on which he is about to enter, and whose experience on many points must be so valuable. The actual settler always gets all the information he desires as to these matters. It was on the speculator in land that such enormous hoaxes used to be played. One of our neighbour's boasts that he has told the 'landsharks lies enough to sink a seventy-four,' and it has not hurt his conscience a bit neither! Any imposition was considered justifiable if it hindered the buying up of land in large masses with the purpose of raising the price upon the emigrant. 
               Sometimes the new comer chances to be a friend or former neighbour; and who shall measure the tide of talk that such a meeting called forth! What questions of births, deaths and marriages, good and ill-fortune, hazards and changes! What smiles and what tears, what surprise and regret attend these encounters! What a change of existence is this for those, who, living far from any neighbour, do not see what Mrs. Trollope (but nobody else) calls 'a human' for weeks, thus to have sympathy and interest awakened, and that 'electric chain wherewith we are darkly bound,' touched with more than a magic power! It is almost worth living in the wilderness to feel this awakening a few times in the course of one's life. 
               And not unfrequently does such a meeting take place between those whose reminiscences refer to lands beyond the sea; who ask and tell of the old world with an interest which may be fully comprehended only by those who have seen an ocean roll between them and the home which they could not even hope to revisit. This feeling, like most others, is strongest among the warmhearted Irish, and it is wonderful how often they encounter those of whom they have known something at home. 'He was born not twenty mile from my own place!' is considered quite reason enough for taking a man with his wife and half a dozen children into a log-house with one room already occupied by a family of equal numbers. "Sure they couldn't lie in the woods, the craychurs!" says the good woman, as she huddles her own cradle into a corner to make room for that which generally forms part of the luggage of the new-comers. "Run and fetch some kindlin's, Barney, and I'll be hangin on the kettle; for its a cup o'tay they'll be wanting,' surely after such a warisome journey."And then the talk! Away with the feast of reason! The flow of soul, under the genial influence of the teapot, is worth all the reason in the world. And such hospitality! If anything like it could be found in the palaces of the rich, what a blessed world this would be! The Irish heart needs not the warming, softening influences of spring to make it all alive to the claims of human or kindred sympathy. It enjoys a perennial spring, rich at once in blossoms and in fruit. Not only is the newly landed fellow-countryman greeted with the kindness of a brother, but a share of the hard earnings is constantly finding its way back to the beloved bog-a token for the 'ould people.' And if fate and the potato crop prove favourable for a few years, some fine spring morning shows us the 'ould people' in person, come over by invitation to share the prosperity of the settlers, whose day-dream has, from the first, shown him the warm corner by the fire, or the shady bench beneath the big tree, graced by these objects of his love and reverence. 
               The sunshine of the heart is worth all other sunshine after all! 
             
             
                
               IS PATIENCE A VIRTUE? 
               AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY. 
               INTRODUCTIONS are awkward things enough-necessary evils sometimes, it is true, but always to be dispensed with if possible. It would not, perhaps, be civil to thrust a mirror before a gentleman's eyes without a preliminary 'By your leave, sir!' But if we are able to place it so that he can catch a glimpse of himself in passing, and thus afford him an opportunity of reforming some triflng inaccuracy of costume, he will be content to avail himself of the advantage without adverting to the obscurity which may envelop his benefactor. Did it sort with my humour to grope like a mole through the earth that covers an hundred generations, I could make out an authentic pedigree that would rival any in the sporting calendar; but besides that this deliberate method is entirely foreign to my nature and habits, I cannot but see that there would be about as much propriety in such a mode of introducing one's self to the reader, as there would be in engraving a genealogical tree upon our visiting cards. I shall, therefore, forbear to gratify my pride of ancestry, by enumerating the various generations of the Hasty family, that flourished beyond the flood (of the Atlantic, I mean), and commence with my first American ancestor, Mr. Wildrake Hasty, who, after a headlong quarrel with his guardians concerning the amount of his allowance while under age, scampered over with Sir Walter Raleigh, and falling head over heels in love the very first day after he landed, was married in a month, and became the founder of our family on this side the water. Skipping several of his successors, who were not remarkable for anything that ever I could learn, beyond an unusual facility in getting rid of money, I shall mention only Mr. Solomon Hasty (the only Solomon of the name), who happily achieved an heiress, and thus, in some measure, retrieved the rather drooping fortunes of the race, and enabled my immediate ancestors to transmit to me a goodly inheritance, which was considerably augmented by a long (and, oh! how tedious!) minority. 
               So much by way of introduction. I should have preferred omiting even this short specimen of the art of prosing. I love the stirring, abrupt style, where the narrator bounds on in the middle of a scene, brandishing his wooden sword, and shaking his cap and bells, and calling 'Presto! Presto!' for a continual change of scene; but this sort of commencement supposes the story, or chit-chat which follows, to be, if not as sparkling as champagne, at least as brisk as bottled ale. I have no wit, and scarcely a wonder in store; and I am far too honest to lure the reader on by a promise of turtle, and then set him down to hasty pudding. So I prose at the outset, meaning to be rather better than worse than my promises. 
               When I had reached the independent age, and my guardians had resigned their controul over my person and fortune, they very considerately advised me to marry and settle in life, thinking, perhaps, that so mercurial a character required a wife by way of ballast. But I had other matters on hand. I could not think of 'settling' until I had, by a long flight, prepared myself to relish repose. So I dashed over Europe, feeing conducteurs to extra diligence, and overturning ciceroni, and laming valets de place, in the impetuosity of my sight-seeing efforts. Like all the rest of the world, I talked large and felt small at St. Peter's; I leaned over the Leaning Towers; I paced and repaced the gallery of the Louvre, and threaded the intricacies of the Palais Royal; I dived under the Thames, peeped from the top of St. Paul's, and said and did all that was proper in the hallowed atmosphere of Poets' Corner; and then came home as fast as winds and wave could carry me, in a violent hurry to 'settle.' And here began my difficulties. If men could live like albatrosses, forever on the wing, I should have settled at once, in imitation of that sensible bird; but being resolved to clip my roving wing, and seek a gentle mate, it became necessary to provide a nest fit for the keeping of so dear a charge. Fortunately for me, a tract of forest-land, which had been purchased by my grandfather, as a sort of land-in-the-moon speculation, afforded just the site I wanted for my dwelling, and I was soon involved in all the delightful bustle of building. Plans crowded upon me; elevations without limit exalted my imagination. All and each seemed to promise all that need be promised; yet every new projector found a flaw in the ideas of his predecessor. At length, to cut the matter short, I decided by lot; and, dismissing my theorists, set myself seriously at work to realize 'a romance in stone and lime.' 
               This proved the first great lesson of my life. To build in the country! Words fail me, and I pass on. 
               My house was finished, my shrubberies planted, my garden under skilful hands, and now I set about falling in love, with all my heart and soul, as I am said to do everything. Nothing could equal the rapidity with which I lost my heart, save the celerity with which I found it again; and after this process had been repeated some two or three times, I began to fear that my friends had been correct in prophesying that I should never be of one mind long enough to be married. But my time had not yet come. Love had his revenge at last, and when I least expected it. I had taken my gun, and was popping away in the grounds of a cynical old bachelor, my very good neighbour, within whose walls I never beheld the shadow of a petticoat, when I came very near shooting a lady who sat reading in a summer-house. She was pale with fright, and I thought her scarcely pretty; but as I poured forth my apologies, rich blushes rose to her cheek, and enhanced the radiance of her dove-like eyes, till my charmed sense confessed her the perfection of feminine loveliness. The fair Serena was, doubtless, my destiny; and after a few faint struggles I yielded myself her captive, rescue or no rescue. 
               Of all the wonders Master Cupid ever performed, certainly this feat was the most wonderful. My fair enslaver was in everything my opposite, or at least the prominent parts of our characters were altogether and strikingly dissimilar, and it was the consciousness of this difference that alone induced my attempts at resistance. Serena was lovely and well connected: what reasonable mortal could ask more? I was not a reasonable mortal. I sighed for perfect similarity of taste and temperament, of habits and opinions; and I expected some evidence of a reciprocal passion, which, though female delicacy and reserve might restrain, they should not, I thought, be wholly able to conceal. I sighed in vain for anything of this kind. She was won after an age of wooing, and I ought to have felt assured that she would not have accepted me unless she had preferred ferred me to all the world. I did at first believe so, when, after having once rejected my suit on the score of her fears for the stability of my attachment, she was induced to revise her sentence after I had endured a year's probation, and at length acknowledged herself satisfied by my perseverance. But doubts once planted, continued to torment me at intervals. Unskilled in the female heart, I expected the most powerful of all sentiments to exhibit itself nearly in the same manner in all characters, at least in married life; and it was hard for me to learn to read in my wife's mild eyes and unimpassioned gentleness of manner, the tranquillity of happy love. 
               A chilling doubt of Serena's affection caused me to quarrel with her unchanging placidity of temper. I fancied that I should be happier if she were angry, or even jealous, since I should then have some proof of my influence over her feelings. No husband ever took half the pains to soothe the angry passions of his termagant spouse, that I tried in endeavouring to discover whether my wife had any passions. I sought occasions to thwart her wishes; I pretended, at times, an indifference I never felt, and even affected to flirt with other pretty women; yet never could succeed in ruffling her temper. Perhaps her nicer tact enabled her to read, through the mists in which I strove to envelop it, the almost idolatrous devotion with which I regarded her. At any rate there must have been a preservative power somewhere, since my waywardness did not estrange her from me. I must often have seemed to her cruelly unobservant of her feelings; yet the same unvarying gentleness, the same cloudless smile was ever ready to welcome me. Her complexion, indeed, would change, and be pale or glowing according to my mood, and her eyes withdraw from any expression in mine which harmonized not with their own natural dewy tenderness; but never, under any provocation, did I detect a harsh tone in her sweet voice, or mark in those eyes a single look that spoke resentment. 
               Another difference between us gave me some, though far less uneasiness. I had accustomed myself to do everything with great rapidity. Let me read, write, ride, drive, play, or hunt, I was content with nothing short of racing pace. My wife, on the contrary, was habitually deliberate, and there was a delicate finish about her most trivial actions which often put to shame my more slovenly performances. But my impetuosity was not satisfied with perfection. I fretted myself with the reflection that love-true love-love such as I was conscious of feeling, would have induced Serena to assimilate her habits with mine, forgetting that this very love had never prompted the slightest change on my part. This was one of my cultivated troubles. 
               If I were not writing behind an alias, I should shrink from any detail of the expedients to which I was driven by my worthy resolve of transforming my seraph to a mere mortal. Covered by that friendly screen from the indignant flashing of bright eyes, I shall venture upon a few specimens, leaving the intelligent reader to gather from these a general idea of the life she had the happiness of leading with the man whom she had married for love. 
               I had been shooting in excessively dirty weather, and had brought home almost as much mud on my boots as game in my pouch, every step making a mark that would have done for Gog or Magog, when, as I was passing the front door to reach a side entrance, of which I was accustomed to avail myself at such times, I saw Serena descending the stairs, dressed for an evening party. On perceiving me, she approached the door to remind me that we had invited company, and also to make her usual kind queries as to the day's sport. I blush to acknowledge that even while drinking ing in those gracious tones, and meeting those gentle glances, I was devising an unkind return, which I proceeded forthwith to put in execution. 
               My bolts had hitherto fallen powerless from her armour of proof, but might I not find some point or crevice pervious to a lesser weapon-one which she would scarce think it worth while to guard against? It is often more difficult to possess one's soul in patience under a small provocation than under a great one. Our philosophy is apt to walk on stilts that raise it above our petty needs. The man who can face a shower of bullets without flinching, will be miserable if he be caught in the rain without his umbrella. 
               My wife, like most married ladies who have no children, was excessively particular-neat to a fault; making a sacred temple of her house, and worshipping its stocks and stones (at least, so I said), in the absence of those living idols which are so apt to engross the thoughts of those who enjoy the name of mother. On this occasion I had observed her, as she descended the stairs, pass her handkerchief over the balustrade, to ascertain whether the duster had done its duty; and this suggested the idea of my ungracious experiment. Instead of seeking a place of less sanctity to cast my slough in, I mounted the steps between a double row of my wife's geraniums and oleanders, proceeded deliberately along the glossy floor-cloth, and with one foot on the stair-cloth, and one on the floor beside it, had ascended half the first flight before my wife spoke. With scarce a glance at the huge black tracks that marked my progress, she only asked, in her usual calm way, 'Hadn't you better change your boots, dear?' 
               I made a rapid toilet, and descended to the drawing-room, with confession on my lips. There I found Serena engaged with a visitor-not one of the expected, but a neighbour, who had 'dropped ped in,' as the phrase is, 'sociably.' If, however, her coming was a drop, her conversation was a continued stream; and, to pursue the figure, it seemed to have flowed through caverns sulphurous, or marshy beds of roots and herbs medicinal. Her visit was certainly anything but welcome; but the closest scrutiny could not have detected in my wife's manner, any symptom of this truth. She was even more attentive than usual, lest her guest should be pained by a suspicion that her coming was mal-apropos. 
               I must confess I was far from following the amiable example; and if Mrs. Peewit did not discover that I wished her at the antipodes, it was only because she had not found time to bestow a glance upon my countenance, and took my statue-like silence as a compliment to her conversational powers. 
               Serena's polite inquiries after the husband (poor fellow!) and children of this 'wearifu' woman,' unlocked, it would seem, the fountains of her soul. O, Esculapius! what a burst was there! Mrs. Peewit needed no pitch-pipe. Her voice-her practised voice, struck at once upon the key best calculated to implore-nay, to compel commiseration. She described, as having occurred in her own family, diseases enough to have filled every ward of a metropolitan hospital, and enumerated, in the history of their cure, an inventory of drugs that would have set up in trade any village apothecary, and made him the envy of all his contemporaries. Imagine me, O compassionate reader, listening to a detailed account of every pang that had attended the dentition of Malvina; the scarlet fever of Lucius Junius Brutus; and the chincough of Sacharissa Celestina; with their various symptoms, mode of treatment, and progress of cure. 
               I had gathered, in the course of the infliction, that these three were all her store, and supposed, of course, that we had come to the end of the chapter; but, alas! she turned a new leaf, and without the smallest appearance of compunction, fairly laid the whole family down with the measles, and bated us not a jot of all the nauseating details that belong to a sick chamber. 
               While my wife, with compassionate kindness, murmured, 'What a world of fatigue and anxiety you must have suffered!' I, in anything but an amiable mood, listened only for the bell, hoping for the arrival of relief in the form of other guests; but, ah! less fortunate than 'sister Anne,' I could descry in the moonlight no 'cloud of dust,' announcing the wished approach, though I leaned out of the window so far as to be in danger of tumbling headlong among the shrubbery below. Our case was harder yet than that of Fatima. Her distress was the punishment of her curiosity; but our Bluebeardess had forced upon us the secrets of the fatal chamber, against the stomach of our sense. 
               Once, and once only, Serena was able adroitly to avail herself of a moment's pause to attempt a diversion in my favour, by inquiring after some gay, agreeable acquaintances of our Niobe neighbour; but she only stopped one sluice of bitter waters to open the floodgates of another. Mrs. Peewit had been unable to see these pleasant people when last they called, because-but I spare you, O fortunate reader! (fortunate in having so considerate a caterer;) I spare you the repetition of that under which I groaned for an endless half hour-a drawling detail of the outrageous doings and misdoings of Mrs. Peewit's 'hired help.' This continued until the expected company had arrived, by which time I was in a towering passion with Serena for not being angry. 
               Never did I welcome a bevy of guests with half the cordiality that I displayed toward those who now came to my rescue. Men with whom I had never touched palms before, winced at the fervour of my grasp, while the ladies, I am certain, would have voted me nem. con. the most agreeable of men, had the question been called that evening. I think it not unlikely that I owe no small portion of the popularity which resulted in my election to Congress the next year, to the animation which attended the rebound of my spirits on that memorable night. My complacency included even Serena and her provoking patience. 
               I had brought from the city, not long before, a pair of porcelain vases of exquisite mould, selected with express reference to my wife's delicate taste. They were not only ornamented with beautiful paintings, but the skill of the artist had been still farther displayed in the addition of wreaths of flowers modeled in the China itself, to a degree of transparency and accuracy which I had never seen equalled. They were, indeed, the perfection of elegance, and such pets with Serena, that she took the sole charge of them herself, and permitted not the touch of hands profane. Both the specimen and the species were new to most of our guests, and these gems of the plastic art were much admired. Our chronicler of ague fits, the lugubrious Mrs. Peewit, nervous, no doubt, from the freshened recollection of her various woes, in attempting to replace one of these vases upon the mantle-piece, let it fall upon the hearth, where the roses, and violets, and trees, and castles, which she had just been admiring, cut a sorry figure enough, not to mention the oil from a small lamp which had been placed within to give effect to the transparent painting. Serena's cheek showed a passing flush, but she treated the accident as a thing of small moment, which was all very right and ladylike; but when we were alone, could any one believe she could be so vexatious as to say- 
               'Poor Mrs. Peewit! how I felt for her!' 
               Not a single word of my vexation, or her own regret at the loss of my beautiful gift. All swallowed up in the consideration that that intolerable woman must have felt doubly embarrassed, because she was an uninvited and rather humble guest. Was it not too much-too much for any man, and especially one of the Hasty race? 
               Even on the subject of dress-that weak point of woman-I never yet had been able to throw Serena off her guard; when we were one evening preparing for a grand gala, during a visit to the city-an occasion when I was particularly desirous she should be looking her best-when the hour for the fte approached, I went to Serena's dressing-room to satisfy myself as to the result of the toilet, and found her arrayed in green velvet, with sleeves of 'woven air,' or, to speak more intelligibly, some perfectly transparent material, under which her white arms lost none of their rounded beauty. A necklace, composed of several strands of pearl, rested its tassels on the emerald boddice, and was clasped midway by a diamond rose. The same brilliant gems supported her abundant tresses; and a single white feather, most tastefully disposed, completed the picture, which I did not hesitate to pronounce perfect. I remember every particular of it as if I had seen it but yesterday. 
               My wife smiled at the vehemence of my encomiums; yet 'smiled in such a sort' as showed her not wholly insensible to the advantages which she derived from the simple elegance of her dress. Indeed, her heightened colour and sparkling eyes, betrayed a consciousness of beauty altogether unusual in my meek Serena. As I clasped the last bracelet, a cup of coffee was brought, which I must needs present myself; and being a little preoccupied with the dress and its wearer, I most awkwardly overset the cup, and sent full half of its contents trickling down the front of the green velvet. 
                
               The maid filled the air with her bewailings, and I stood aghast at the mischief I had done. 
               'Wipe it quickly, Elinor,' said Serena. 
               I looked at her as the thought struck me that she spoke in a hurried tone. Had I found at last the key-note? 
               'It will not do,' she said; 'you cannot make it fit for this evening's wear. But fortunately the injury is confined to a narrow space, and can easily be repaired.' 
               'But not to-night!' I exclaimed, in a tone of vexation, for I was much disappointed. 
               'No, not to-night, certainly,' she replied; 'but I have another dress ready for immediate use, for it was doubtful until a late hour whether this would be sent in time. The other will do just as well.' 
               'How can you say so!' I replied pettishly, 'when you know how much I liked this? Nothing was ever half so becoming to you.' 
               'How ungallant!' she said, smiling; 'are you not bound, as a courteous knight, to believe that your lady-love will be charming in anything? Take a book for a quarter of an hour, and see if I do not make you forget the green velvet.' 
               And the fair Stoic proceeded with unclouded brow to substitute paltry blond and white satin frills, flowers, and frippery, for her rich and becoming costume. 
               While I awaited the re-robing, in no very amiable mood, I must confess-for what man likes to see his wife too sensible?-it occurred to me that the present was an opportunity to try Serena's temper in a way which might not offer itself again. It was too good to be lost; and I quieted some qualms of conscience by resolving, in case this should be as unsuccessful as former ones had been, never to make another. Serena's temper should henceforth be considered a Gibraltar, unassailable either by sap or storm. 
               When I was summoned again to the toilet, my wife gaily demanded sentence. 
               'Charming, charming!' I replied; 'you know you look well in everything, and if nobody were to see you but myself, I should think nothing could be more beautiful. But two-thirds of the women to-night will be dressed just so; and I confess I would rather stay at home than see you make one of forty or fifty transparencies over white satin, like a row of dolls dressed to order for transportation, or a dancing-master's pupils in uniform for a ballet.' 
               'Are you in earnest?' 
               'Never more so, I assure you.' 
               'Well, then,' she said, drawing off her gloves, 'I challenge you to a game of chess; and I shall beat you with all possible pleasure.' 
               I certainly ought to have been very unhappy, for the next few hours, at least; for I had not only acted like a-(hard name)-in depriving my wife of her brilliant evening, but had failed in producing the effect I had intended. But justice yet delayed its stroke, and I do not know when I have spent the hours more happily, thanks to the sunny temper which I so tyrannically strove to render more like my own. 
               We had been about three years married when I was chosen delegate to a convention that was called to meet in a Southern city; and as my wife had several friends in that place, she consented to accompany me. Our journey was delayed by a variety of vexatious accidents. It was late in autumn, and bad roads, and various hindrances of travel, conspired to render it very doubtful whether I should be present at the opening of the convention. I was in a perfect fever at the thought. I fretted-I scolded, and, in short, made myself very uncomfortable. 
               'Why will you distress yourself, Frederick?' said Serena; 'your colleague being on the spot, it is not possible that any serious injury to the cause can result from your detention.' 
               Now, was not that a very provoking observation? I will appeal to the whole corps of husbands, ought not a wife to have believed that nobody could accomplish the purpose for which we were sent, so well as her own lord and master? I had a short fit of the sullens at this; but my good resolutions were strong, and the evil hour did not last long. I recalled many proofs of devoted interest in Serena, and on the strength of these recollections, I confided to her my intention to make a speech, for which I had been at some trouble to prepare myself, and my fears that I should find the arena preoccupied. Her reply was like oil upon the smothered fire of my feelings. 
               'I have heard you say, love, that no converts were to be expected from the eloquence poured forth on such occasions, all minds being made up beforehand. You will, therefore, have the less to regret if you should be too late.' 
               I turned from her, muttering between my teeth, 'Who could ever expect to move such a dish of skimmed milk.' 
               This vexation, like all others of the same kind, resolved itself into the old conclusion-Serena could not feel the pride of affection in her husband's talents and reputation, or she could never be thus indifferent to his opportunities of distinguishing himself. Such an impression made me, I fear, anything but an agreeable companion for the rest of the journey, though I must own that my wife tried, by every gentle art, every soothing attention, to calm my ruffled spirits. 
                
               Thanks to the rapidity of travel on the latter part of our route, it so happened, after all, that I was just in time, so that nought of my purpose failed. My wife's kind inquiries, however, were very coolly answered. I had made up my mind to show her that my happiness was not dependent on her sympathy; and as our time was filled, even to overflowing, with business and pleasure, I had ample opportunities to show off my indifference. Yet, unfrequent as were our tte--ttes, compared with our own home-life, Serena must, I was certain, have observed the change in my manner; yet she never commented upon it, nor complained of our continual separation. Her manner to me was as usual, except, perhaps, an additional tinge of softness. 
               'It is plain enough,' thought I, 'she loves me not. Were she not indifferent to my affection, would she not have murmured at this seeming alienation? If she prized my society, would she not express uneasiness at seeing me so seldom? It is not in human nature (judging by my own), to bear thus calmly the loss of what we value.' 
               Determined to conceal my ill-humour from every eye, and most of all from that of her who caused it, I assumed an appearance of extravagant gaiety-was the life of every party-the roisterer of each convivial meeting, and always the devoted admirer of the prettiest woman present, my wife alone excepted: to her I was only scrupulously polite. 
               Among the most conspicuous of the gay circle in which we were thus temporarily moving, was a lady who was known to be living apart from her husband in consequence of mutual dissatisfaction-in short, one who was divorced in fact, though not in law. This lady, whom I may call Mrs. Beresford, was a beauty and a wit-off hand and dashing in her manners-free in her conversation, and famous for brilliant sallies and good things that would bear repeating. It is, to be sure, cheap to be witty when we allow ourselves to throw aside the various restraints that curb the wit of others; but Mrs. Beresford's wit was such as often passes current in what is called good society, and she was voted 'a privileged person'-' a good creature, and so unfortunate!'-in fine, a splendid woman. She was, of course, the centre of attraction to a group of idlers who were ever ready to echo her witticisms, and offer incense to her vanity, in return for the amusement she afforded them, and the advantage of sharing, in some degree, her clat.
                
               Into this set I was most graciously admitted, and I found myself not a little gratified by the distinction with which I was at once treated by Mrs. Beresford. Whether by the power of sympathy, or the magical influence of some mesmeric contact, I know not, but I found myself suddenly transformed into a wit, at least one whose lively nothings were sure to command applause, which in society does as well. Mrs. Beresford found my most trivial observation worthy of attention, and in matters of taste my opinion very soon became her law. If I praised blue, blue was the only wear until I happened to admire something pink, when Mrs. Beresford's ribbons and roses began to blush as if under the spell of an enchanter. The fair ungovernable, who treated her beaux with so little ceremony that they sometimes rebelled, spite of wit and beauty, would endure from me even the intimation that some of her extravagances were neither delicate nor feminine: what could lady more? 
               My attentions to this dashing dame, prompted originally by the amiable desire of exciting my wife's jealousy, were continued for my own amusement, until I began to be alarmed for their effect upon the lady herself, as evinced in her manner toward me. The confidential tone of her conversation when we chanced to be alone, and her reproaches when I failed in my attendance, became extremely embarrassing, and I began revolving in my altered mind the practicability of retreating with a good grace. Perhaps these reflections would not have come so early to my aid, if Mrs. Beresford's deportment had been more to my taste. In a neglected wife-one known not to be on good terms with her husband-far greater circumspection would have been more respectable, and some appearance of sensibility under such unhappy circumstances, far more amiable than the extravagant gaiety she had seen fit to adopt. The retiring delicacy of my wife's manners, had especially unfitted me to be long pleased with the society of one who was never known to sacrifice a witticism to decorum, or to suppress a brilliant or piquant thought, because it might wound the feelings of others. My vanity had at first made me overlook or soften these faults, so odious in woman; but when flattery had lost the gloss of novelty, I began to discern the coarse materials of which it was composed, and became sensible that neither wit nor beauty could compensate for the lack of delicacy of feeling and propriety of conduct. 
               Mrs. Beresford had brought to the matrimonial partnership a moderate fortune, and an immoderate fondness for expense. The first was soon exhausted; the latter seemed to grow by use, and, like the giant in the story, became too mighty to share its habitation with another. This produced reproaches, and reproaches recriminations. Domestic comfort walked out at the door, and love (an old trick of his) flew out of the window. The husband, after submitting to be nearly ruined, cut short the supplies which fed the extravagance of his fair dame; and she, in return, revenged herself for what she called his parsimony, by the most unsparing ridicule of his tastes, habits, and manners-conduct little likely, one would think, to gain admirers, or to retain those whom her charms had attracted. I, for one, began to be heartily tired of my flirtation, and fully aware of the difficulty of retracing my steps; and yet, as if this vexation were not enough, I tormented myself with contrasting Mrs. Beresford's now open partiality with what I called my wife's indifference, and resolving that the lack of empressement (I know of no corresponding English word) in Serena's manner would always remain a chilling barrier between us. 
               One morning, when my cogitations had, I suppose, somewhat affected my appearance, Serena, as she entered the breakfast-room, instead of taking her place at the table, came to me, and after a moment's pause, said- 
               Frederick, you are either ill or unhappy, yet you say nothing to me! How have I forfeited your confidence? You deny me one of my dearest privileges when you are ill or ill at ease, and shut me out from all participation in what affects you. Say-tell me-what is it? Has anything occurred to trouble you?' 
               Her beautiful eyes, upturned to mine, were almost irresistible, but I called pride to the field. 
               'Me!-not at all!-nothing whatever! I am perfectly well, I thank you! How do you find yourself this morning? Ready for breakfast, I trust! I am famously hungry!' 
               And I sat down, and fell upon the toast as if I had eaten nothing for a week. I could not look full at Serena, but as I stole a glance, I thought her eyes were full of tears. They were downcast, however, and when she spoke it was in her usual manner. That morning I found in the Shakspeare she had been reading, a geranium leaf laid at that pretty speech of Portia's, beginning- 
                      
                        'You see me, lord Bassanio, where I stand, 
                        Such as I am; though for myself alone 
                         
                        I would not be ambitious in my wish, 
                        To wish myself much better; yet for you 
                        I would be trebled twenty times myself.' 
                     
                   And a few lines farther down, I could discern a very light pencil mark at these lines- 
                      
                        'She is not bred so dull but she may learn; 
                        Happiest of all is that her gentle spirit 
                        Commits itself to yours to be directed, 
                        As from her lord, her governor, her king.' 
                     
                   I fixed my eyes upon the passage, and fell into a long and most unpleasant reverie. We had been engaged out that evening, but Serena declined, on plea of indisposition, and I, not sorry for an opportunity to come down a little from my ungracious altitude, offered to stay and read to her. She thanked me with lips and eyes both; and, if I could have freed myself from the consciousness of wrong, I should have had a taste of my former happiness as I sat in her dressing-room, reading from that very play in whose touching lines she seemed to have observed something applicable to her own feelings. As she lay back in her chair with her eyes closed, I could not but observe that she looked paler and thinner than usual, and my awakened conscience, and my softened feelings, alike urged me to seize this moment for acknowledgment and explanation, when the servant announced a lady, and added, that the visitor wished to see me alone. I went down stairs, expecting to discover that my wife was the person inquired for, and standing before the parlor fire I found Mrs. Beresford. She turned round as I entered, and advancing with a somewhat theatrical air, she broke out into a declaration that she had quarrelled irrevocably with her husband, and had come to throw herself upon my protection. My reply or my manner not satisfying her, she burst into a passion of tears and hysterical sobs, so violent that I became alarmed, and rang for a glass of water. 
               'Yes! ring, and expose me to the house, if you will! You shall neither persuade nor force me again to put myself into the power of Beresford. In vain do you give me this cold and cruel advice. If it is an idea that I shall be induced to return to him, that causes you to refuse me your protection, hear me declare-swear--' 
               Here she was interrupted by the return of the servant, and the entrance of my wife, who, hearing sounds of distress, had hastened down stairs. Serena supposing, in the innocence of her heart, that this passionate appeal was intended as much for her as for me, hastened to interpose her kind offices, trying, with her gentle tones, to soothe Mrs. Beresford's agitation, and to prevent her from completing her vow of eternal separation from the man to whom she had promised a life-long affection and duty. 
               The appearance of my wife just at this juncture, had been at first sufficiently embarrassing, but her simplicity afforded me unlooked-for relief. Echoing her advice, I declared my resolution to avoid all interference which should tend to widen the unhappy differences between Mrs. Beresford and her husband. I begged her to return home at once, before her absence should have been noticed, and put my hand to the bell to order the carriage. 
               If I had coveted and admired impetuosity of feeling, I had now good reason to be satisfied. A violent fit of hysterics, with all the usual accompaniments of that interesting complaint, was the reply to our urgency. Serena, affrighted, left the room in search of restoratives, and Mrs. Beresford observing her absence (spite of her hysterics), took the opportunity to overwhelm me with reproaches for having won her affections by the most devoted attention, and then dishonourably failed her when she had cast herself upon my love and generosity. Bitter was the torrent which now pierced my unwilling ears; and ere I could collect words to reply to the charge-too well deserved, indeed; for though I had never talked of love, I had followed her like her shadow ever since our first acquaintance-I beheld, close at my side, the face of my wife, pale, ghastly, corpse-like; and I had but just time to receive her in my arms to prevent her falling prone at my feet. 
               I should in vain attempt any description of my sensations at this moment. Mrs. Beresford's conduct was, perhaps, such as might have been expected from her; but what man ever counts upon utter shamelessness in a woman? That my present distress was no more than I richly deserved, the reader will probably have concluded; but I felt at the time as if the punishment were too heavy for the offence. I never had for a moment contemplated any serious wrong to my wife, and Mrs. Beresford was not a woman whose sensibilities were likely to suffer seriously through the medium of the affections; but how was I to make Serena understand all this? How to tell her that the whole was the result of a deliberate plan of playing upon her affection, and revenging on her unoffending gentleness the wounds which my vanity had received? 
               I carried Serena to her room; and now it remained to get rid of Mrs. Beresford. And who can tell the humiliation to which a man is reduced, who has wilfully put himself in the power of a wicked woman? The very recollection, even at this distant day, makes my cheeks tingle. And I am sure that the reader will believe that my blushes were not all for my own shame, when I confess that it was only upon the promise of a large sum of money that I persuaded suaded the wretched woman to allow me to hand her to the carriage, and relieve myself of her presence. 
               To tell Serena all-to implore forgiveness for the wretchedness which I had caused her, and to promise that this last, worst instance, should prove the finish of my follies; and then to bear her at once and forever from the scene of my disgrace. These were the resolutions which occupied my thoughts, and contributed to moderate the whirl of my brain, as I ascended the stairs to my wife's room. But before I could open the door, I was met by her maid, shrieking and ringing her hands, and calling for help, with the one terrible word prevailing over all, 'She is dead! she is dead!' 
               I rushed to the bed-side, and for a moment thought it was indeed so; but as I raised her frantically in my arms, calling upon the beloved name, and beseeching her to look once more upon me, I perceived that her heart was still beating. Redoubled efforts recalled her to life, but not to consciousness. She opened her eyes, but their wandering gaze recognized no one, and in less than half an hour she was in a raging fever, which the physician declared to proceed from a sudden inflammation of the brain. 
               What a change now came over my ever gentle Serena! How did her eyes' fierce glances appall me, and the strained tones of that once silver voice agonize my wretched soul! For ten days and nights did she rave almost without intermission; and her whole theme was misery-disappointment-despair, while my name mingled incessantly with her incoherent complaints and supplications. Through the whole course of the disease she never once recognized me, though I watched constantly by her side; and when she did show symptoms of returning reason, I was obliged to absent myself, lest the sight of me should recall the distress which had brought her to this condition. I think I know something of the feelings of a murderer. At least I fancy my agony could scarcely have been more intense if I had been conscious of having stabbed her body, than it was under the recollection that I had wilfully wounded her mind, and brought her to the verge of the grave by sheer, deliberate unkindness. 
               After I had had ample opportunity for self-abasement and repentance, I was once more suffered to present myself before Serena. She received me with her own sweet smile, and held out her trembling hand, but could not speak; and I, obliged to keep down my bursting heart, could only turn away and weep, inwardly renewing, in that moment of mingled joy and anguish, the vows of amendment which I had made during the sad night-watches and long days of almost despairing anxiety. 
               When, at length, I ventured to begin the confession which I had been longing to pour out before my injured wife, her generosity would not allow me to proceed. 
               'It is enough, Frederick,' she said; 'I understand it all. We have both been faulty; I, in adhering too closely to the extreme self-command which I had prescribed to myself, on account of the impetuosity of your temper; you, in suffering yourself to doubt the affection of a woman whose only possible motive in uniting herself to you was-must have have been-love, founded on a well-tried confidence in your worth, and whose only fault (in your eyes, love, I mean) was, that she would keep her temper when you lost yours.' 
               'You are too good, Serena-' 
               'No-no-no! Anything but that! I shall take especial care never to be too good again. I will be naughty enough after this, especially if you forget your promise to be reasonable.' 
                
               And we were once more happy (spite of repentant recollections on my part), and were preparing to return to our own dear home when I received a hostile summons from Mr. Beresford. He had only waited to hear of Serena's recovery, and then, with the usual philosophy of men of the world, sought relief to his wounded pride in an attempt at murder; and all for the sake of a woman whom he detested. 
               Such a message on the eve of my wedding-day, would not have broken in more cruelly upon my dream of bliss. My principles forbade me to lift my hand against the life of another; yet how could this be reconciled with a reputed attempt at seduction! Seduction and duelling are natural allies-they belong to each other, as cause and effect; and since the world believed me capable of the one, would it put any faith in my alleged reason for declining the other? Must I incur either the guilt of murder or the stain of cowardice? Was this the dread choice? Oh! how my soul loathed the recollection of my criminal folly! I had before considered my punishment severe, though just. Here was another consequence-a natural consequence, of my conduct, now hanging over me with tenfold horror in its aspect, because of its certain effect upon my wife, and my vivid appreciation of our newfound happiness. 
               I was closeted with a friend, whose counsel I had sought in these unhappy circumstances, when a knock at the door interrupted our conference. I opened it to dismiss the intruder, when Serena, pale and trembling, and supported in the arms of her maid, presented herself before me. 
               'Why are you here, my love, so far from your own room?' I said, as composedly as I was able, taking her at the same time from the woman, and leading her to the sofa. 
                
               'Frederick,' she said, in tones which pierced my heart, 'do not seek to deceive me by an assumed calmness. I more than suspected the errand of Colonel Foster this morning; and when I learned that Mr. Hartley was with you, I was convinced that the forebodings which had tormented me were about to be realized. Can it be that you are going to raise your daring hand against life? You! with thanksgivings for my safety yet warm upon your lips! You will not be so inconsistent! You will not make me regret the grave which seemed opening for me a little while since. Oh, my husband! be true to yourself, and do not madly attempt to wipe out one wrong by the commission of another!' 
               She threw herself weeping upon my breast, regardless of the presence of Mr. Hartley, who was much moved by her appearance. I strove to re-assure her, but she would accept of nothing short of an absolute promise that I would decline the meeting with Beresford. 
               'Serena!' I exclaimed, 'would you see me disgraced before the world?-branded as a coward?-despised as one who is not afraid to attempt injury, yet dare not face its consequences? I will give you my word that I will not fire at Mr. Beresford, but I dare not promise to avoid the meeting.' 
               'That would be only exchanging one sort of guilt for another,' she said; 'murder for suicide, as well as the yet more dread consequence of adding the sanction of your example to a Heaven-daring sin. Oh, Frederick! if you would wish me ever again to confide in your principles-if you would have me put faith in one of your late resolutions of self-government, make this one sacrifice to your sense of right. Be called a coward if that must be, but retain the approbation of your own conscience! Fear not man, but God!' 
               She stopped exhausted, and her head dropped faintly on my shoulder. Mr. Hartley considerately withdrew, giving me a sign that he would return after some little interval. I tried to argue-to persuade-to assure Serena; but she would listen to none of the sophistries prompted by my pride; and I was on the point of yielding to her arguments, or her entreaties, when Mr. Hartley returned and put a paper into my hand. 
               Mrs. Beresford had that very afternoon eloped with a young man whose fortune gave him a place in society, though his intellect was scarcely above imbecility. The note contained two lines from Mr. Beresford, saying that he renounced all claims upon me, and should concern himself no further with Mrs. Beresford's affairs. 
               Many years have flown by us since this crisis in our destiny. Sons and daughters have grown up around us, and now form the blessing of our declining years; and I cannot but ascribe much of the excellence which is allowed to distinguish them, to the peculiarly placid temper and perfect self-control which I once madly condemned as a fault in their dear mother. 
             
         
       
   
