
    ----CITATION----
        Anonymous. Tales for Winter Nights .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC7980
    ----FULL TEXT----
         
      
         
            Tales for winter nights 
            
               REPRODUCED FROM THE COPY IN THE
HENRY E. HUNTINGTON LIBRARY

[

FOR REFERENCE ONLY. NOT FOR REPRODUCTION
I,

TALES
FOR
WINTER NIGHTS:
A CHOICE. COLLECTION OF
INTERESTING ADVENTURES, MARVELLOUS STORIES,
ANECDOTES, &amp;o. &amp;c. &amp;c.
PHILADELPHIA:
PUBLISHED BY JAS. B. SMITH &amp; CO.,
NO. 140 CHESTNUT ST.
1855.

4


THi~
FIELD OF TERJL{OR.
9
AT the foot of the Giant Mountain, (so called from
its pre-eminent height,) in a fertile district of Sue-
sia, there fell to be divided among several relations
the J)roperty of a rich commoner, who had died
- without children, and whose various farms were scat-
tered about, in different quarters of this romantic
country.
For this purpose, they had assembled in a small
Hin, of the head village, and would very soon have
epine to an amie~able agreement, on the division of
their inheritance, had it not been that it included
one farm, called the ,field of terror; which, of course,
no one was inclined to receive for his portion.
Yet the surface of this field was adorned with
blooming flowers, anrl a variety of wild shrubs and
underwood, betokening at once, the fertility of the
soil, and the neglect of the husbandman. Man~r
years indeed had passed since any one had ventured
there with a plough, nor had any seeds been planted
or sown, but those which nature herself supplied.
Or if some bold adventurer had now and then made
such an attempt, the work-oxen were invariably
seized with an uncontrollable fury ;-even the plough..
man and sower fled in wild aifright, complaining
that horrible spectres floated around them, pretend-

~~~2


i

I,~fl!'S I1f~P0S ITO IIY.

I

4

hi~i ~ lThmnr, and looking over their
It a ludeims an familiarity,
i~ h~c h n.t utovi at ~ouIagf' could endure.
~VIio ~heddd ww take this accursed and ominous
ikbl into I~i~' allotment, became the grand question
in debate. To every one it appeared, (according to
the usual way ot the world,) that, what to himself
was, even in idea, insupportable, might, by his
neighbour, be encountered without risk or hesita-
tion. 71'hus they continued disputing till a late hour
of the evening.-At last, after an interval of silence,
one of the party announced the following sugges-
tion.
"We are," said he, accordingg to the injunctions
of our predecessor, oblige d% make some provision
for a poor cousin, who lives here in this village. To
us the girl is but very distantly related-besides, she
will 1)robably soon have a good husband to protect
her, for she is amiable and prudent, and is commonly
called the beautiful Sabina. Therefore, my coun-
sel is, that w~ freely give to our cousin, in a present,
this field of terror. We shall then have at once ful-
filled our duty, and sup~iied a dowry for Sabina;
which, unpromising as it appears at present, may
yet p rove no inconsiderable fortune, if her husband
should chance to be sufficiently skilful and cou-
rageous to venture on its improvement." '~h~ rest
of the party unanimously approved of this Mo~mon,
and one of their number was immediately despatch-
ed on an embassy, to acquaint Sabina with their de-
termination.
Before this debate was at an end, Sabina had, in
the dusk of the evening, heard a light knocking at
the door.-To her question of "who is there ?" an
answer was returned, which induced her immnedi-
ately to rise from her seat, open the lattice, and look
out. It was the well remembered, and long wished
for voice of Conrad; a young man, like herself,
handsome and amiaUe, but also extremely poor; on
which account he had left the village, about tw~

* The word END, (locis) in German, is here susceptible of a
pun, which cannot be translated.
Vot.iy. A2

THE FIELD OF TERROR.
years before, as a soldier, in hopes of returning with
such a portion of worldly gain, as might render
practicable a marriage with the beloved mistress,
whose affections he had already won.
Pleasant and affecting was it now~ to behold, how
the tall and graceful young soldier, ~* ith jo~jrful coun-
tenance, proffered his faithful right hand to Sabina,
while her bright and beautiful eyes, glistening with
tears, beamed through the changeless verdure of ivy
boughs, on her changeless lover!
"Ah, Conrad !" said she, deeply blushing, "Hea-
ven be praised that your life has been preserved ;-
for this alone, I prayed in your long absence; nor do
I now require any other boon of fortune.~-." Her
golden gifts, indeed," said Conrad, smiling and
shaking his head, "have come but sparingly-yet, at
least, I have returned richer than I went; and if my
dear Sabina has but courage, I think we might now
venture on maria e, and honourably brave the
world."-" Ah, ~ ful Conrad !" sighed his mis-
tress, "to link thy fate unalterably thus, for weal
and wo, with a poor helpless orphan !"-" Dearest
girl," interrupted the soldier-" if thou loves me,
say but yes, and rest assured, that all will go well-.
we ~j?1all live together, happier, indeed, than king
and queen !"-" But," said Sabina, "are you then
free-no longer a soldier ?"-Conrad, without speak-
ing, now searched in a leather purse, which contain-
ed his little fortune, for a silver medal, which he
handed to Sabina, who held it so that* the light of
her lamp fell on the device. With old-fashioned
wit, a broken drum was there represented, and Sa-
bina began to read the motto-" Thank heaven war
has"-" Thank heaven war has an end,* it ~should
say," added Conrad,-" it is true, indeed, that
peace is not yet ratified; but there is a truce, which

I
'1'
It

/1 ,


I'

p

* MARVELLOUS REPOSITORY.
will probably have good results; and meanwhile, our
general has disbanded his troops."
With joyful anticipations, Sabina now gave her
hand to her lover; then opened the cottage door, and
allowed him, as her accepted bridegroom, to enter
the small apartment, where he set down beside his
mistress, and related how he had gained a small suni
in gold and silver, from an Italian officer, whom he
had hpnourably conquered in the field; and who, by
the surrender of this treasure, had ransQmed his life.
2rurning her wheel industriously, and smiling
softly, at intervals, on her brave lover, Sabina con-
gratulated herself, that neither to her own, or to
Conrad's future gains, the slightest imputation of in-
justice or violence could be attached.
During this conversation, her cousin made his
appearance, to deliver his embassy. Sabina, with
modest blushes, introduced to him Conrad, as her
accepted lover, just returned from an honourable~
campaign. "Ha, then," said her new guest, "I
have luckily come in the veI~y nick ~pf time; for if
by chance, your bridegroom has returned from the
wars without much worldly gain, the dowry, with
which, by authority of your other cousins, I am now
to present you, will no doubt be very welcome to
him." Conrad, on the contrary, was of a spirit too
proud and independent, and besides, was too much
of a romantic lover, to express any sort of exultation
on hearing this address. The humble Sabina, how-
ever, as yet unconscious of what her cousins really
intended, seemed to acknowledge, on this occasion,
the special favot~r of Providence, and cast down her
eyes, with soft smiles of gladness and gratitude. But
when she now heard that, her whole portion was to
be the field of terror, then the selfish avarice of her
cousins struck at once with icy coldness, on her
heart, and she could no longer restrain the starting
tears of disappointment. Her cousin looked at her
with scornful smiles, pretending to regret that she
should have reckoned on any better share of the in
6

THE FIELD OF TERROR.

heritance, this being a much larger portion than,
from the degree of her relationship, she was entitled
to receive.
Upon this, he wished immediately to retire. Con-
rad, hoxvever~ intercepted his retreat, and, with a
cold composure, which often accompanied his great-
est indignation, he thus. addressed him: "Sir, I per-
ceive that the good intentions of the deceased, tomy
betrothed wife, you and your companions have
chosen to make a jest, and that you are altogether
resolved that not' one farthing shall accrue to her
from your inheritance~ Yet we now take, in God's
name, your, allotment, hoping that this Field of Ter-
ror, which, in the hands of envious and avaricious pol-
troons, might have remained barren, may, unJer the
management of a brave soldier, prove of more worth
than you suppose."
Sabina's cousin, terrified by Conrad's martial ap-
pearance, turned pale, and did not venture on any
reply. On his departure, the young soldier kissed
the tears from the beautiful eyes of his bride, and
hastened with her to a neighboring priest, to ~light
before him their mutual troth, and appoint their
wedding-day.
Within a few weeks after this, Conrad and Sabi-
ima were married, and began to arrange their small
household. The young man had spent almost all
his gold and silver in the purchase of two fine oxen,
a plough, seed corn, and household furniture. The
remainder was just sufficient to guard, with pru-
dence and frugality, against the privations of pover-
ty, until the next harvest season. However, when
Conrad first went out with his plough and oxen, to
labour, he looked back, laughing, to Sabina, and
promised her that the gold which he was now to
trust in the ground would not pr6ve deceitful, and
that by another year, they would be far richer. Sa-
bina looked after him anxiously, and wished only to
~ee him safely returned from the Field of Terror.
Conrad, indeed, returned earlier than she had ex
.7

I
'I.
4
I
A
11

I,
4


~' I

MARVELLOUS REPOSITORY.

pected, but in a mood of mind by no means so tranquil
as that in which he set out. He dragged behind
him his plough, broken in pieces, and laboriously
goaded along one of his oxen, severely wotxnded,
while he himself also, was bleeding in the shoulder
and head. Yet, after all, he strove to look cheerful
and unconcerned; and, with the unconquerable
spirit of a brave soldier, tried to console the weeping
Sabina. "Now," said he, "you ~)vill have enough
to do! Salting, pickling, and cookery! The gob~
lins on the Field. of Terror have provided us with
beef enough for a whole season. This poor .animal
has, in his madness, hurt himself so much as to be
quite useless, and, (at least as long as he lives,) in.
curable. His comrade has run furiously down the
mountain. I saw him fall into the torrent below,
from whence he will never be recovered."
"My cousins! Oh, my wicked cousins!" cried
Sabina: "Now has their perfidious gift robbed us of
all your hard-won earnings; and above all, dear
Conrad, you are yourself dangerously wounded."
"As to my wounds, they are nothing," replied her
husband; "the pair of oxen, no doubt, got me once
between them, when their fury was at its full height
and I was resolved not to let them go. But all this,
heaven be praised, I have got well over; and to-mor~
row morning, I shall make another attempt on the
Field of Terror."
Sabina now tried, by every method in her power,
to dissuade him from this resolve' but he said firm~
ly, that the field, so long as he lived, should not t~e
suffered to remain unprofitable; where a man could
not plough, he must dig; and the goblin would now
no longer have to deal with timid irrational animals,
but with a steady and experienced soldier, who
scorned to run, even from the devil himself. In the
course of that day, he had a butcher to kill and cut
up the poor wounded beast; and next morning,
while Sabina had betaken herself to her new em
~)loyment of pickling and salting, Conrad had pro-
8

THE FIELD OF TERROR.

needed again upon his way, scarcely less contented
now, when he had but a pickaxe and spade, than
on the preceding day, when he set out in style, with
a plough and team of oxen.
On this occasion, it was somewhat late in the
evening before he returned: he was fatigued, and
even looked pale, yet he was more cheerful, and
soon tranquilized his timid and anxious i~ife.
"This kind of husbandry," said he, "is rather tire~
some, no doubt; bes'rdes, there is a strange ghostly
*   looking figure, that starts up, now on one side, and
now on another, mocks at my labour, and interrupts
me both by gestures and words. HQwever, he
seems even himself to wonder that I take so little
notice of him; and upon this I gain always new
*   courage, which, indeed, never can be wanting to an
honest man, who is only desirous peaceably to follow
out his own proper avocation."
In this manner, many days and weeks were spent..
The resolute Conrad persevered undauntedly in the
labour of leveling the ground and rooting out the
weed~, digging and sowing in the most favourable
situations. It is true, indeed, that with the spade
alone, he was able to cultivate but a very small part
of the field; however, he redoubled, on this account,
his care and attention; and, at length, had the satis~
faction to see a harvest springing up, which, if not
very rich, yet promised, and made good, a profit fully
equal to his expectations. He was obliged, how-
ever, to get through the toil of reaping and leading
home as well as he could, without the assistance of
any friend or servant. No day laborers would, for
any temptation of wages, venture on the Field of
Terror' and as to Sabina, her husband would not
suffer her to go thither, more especially as he had
reason to think that he would soon become a father.
The child accordingly was born, and in the third
year after their marriage, was followed by another,
while, in other respects, no material change had
yet taken place in Conrad's situation. By courage
9

F'

I

I,


MARVELLOUS ~EP(I5TTORY.

J

THE FIELD OF TERROR.

and exertion, he knew how to gain harvest upon
harvest from the field; and thus fulfilled his assur~
ance to Sabina, that in their married state they
wQuld honourably brave the world.
One autumnal evening, when the deep shades of
darkness had already fallen around him, Conrad. as
usual, (his harvest having been reaped and cleared
away) plied industriously his labour with the spade.
Suddenly there arose opposite to him the figure of a
tall muscular man, black and swarthy like a collier:,
with a long iron bar or poker in his hands who said
to him-" Is there not then one pair of oxen to be
had in this country, that you labour with both hands
in this manner? Yet to judge by the extent of your
grounds, you should be a rich farmer !"-Conrad
knew very well who it was that spoke to him, and
l)crSevered in his usual way-that is, he kept silence,
turned his eyes and thoughts as much as possible
from the goblin, and plied at his task more assiduous-
ly than before. But the collier did not, in his usual
manner, vanish away, in order to return in a fort-n
more hideous and distracting; but, on the contrary,
stood still, and said, in a friendly tone-" Conrad,
you do great injustice, not only to mebut to yourself.
Answer me with truth and confidence. Perhaps I
could point out a remedy for all your evils."-" Well
in God's name," said Conrad, "if by your words
you deceive me~ the guilt is yours,: and not mine !"
Then he began, without further hesitation, to relate
accurately and truly, all that had befallen him, since
his possession of that' field; nor did he in the least
conceal his indignation at the Hobgoblin, who, by
his perpetual interruptions, had rendered it so diffi -
cult fo. him, with~the assistance of only a pickaxe
and spade, to raise a sufficient harvest for the bare
maintenance of himself and his family.
The collier listened to him seriouslyand atten-.
tively; then, after some reflection, replied as follows:
"I think, friend, you already know very well who I
am; and it argues no little courage on your part, not
10

I-

I

to have abated one jot of your honour, as a soldier,
but truly and openly to have expressed how
much you are dissatisfied with me. To tell the
truth, you have had reason enough to be angry; but
as I have proved ~rou to be a brave fellow, I shall
now make a proposal, which may do you no little
service. Now listen: There are times when, after
I have, in wood, field, and mountain, played the
- fool, and terrified the people to my heart's content,
there has risen within me, a sincere and ardent de-.
sire of entering in to the family of some honest house-
holder, and living there regularly and peaceably for
one half year. Now then, what if you should hire
me for this half year as your servant?"-" It is base
and wicked in thee," said Conrad, "thus to mock at
an honest man, who has, at thine own request, given
thee his confidenc~."-" Nay, nay," sai(l the other,
"there is no mockery-I am quite serious. You
shall find an honest labourer in me; and so long as I
* remain in your service, not one phantom will appear
on the Field of Terror, so that you may bring a
whole herd of oxen thither, without apprehension."
/ .-" That, indeed, would be something," said Con-
rad, meditating; "If I only knew that thou wouldst
keep thy promise; and especially, whether I, as a
Christian, may venture to deal with thee !"-" As
for the last point, you must ju(lge for yourself," said
the goblin, "but my promise I have never yet brok-
en, and never shall, as long as the Giant Mountain
stands; neither am I by nature very wicked-some-
what wild and sportive, it is true-but that is all."-
- -  "I believe, indeed," said Conrad, "that thou art
the well known Rubezahl."-" Listen," said the
stranger, somewhat angrily, "If you belive this,
know also, that the powerful genius of this land can-
not endure to be called by that pitiful name, but
chooses to be styled the Lord of the Mountain !"
"He would prove a goodly menial, forsooth, whom
'.   I must learn to style the Lord of the mountain 1" said
1-1

I
F

3:
'I


I

TIlE FIELI) OF TERROR.

MARVELLOUS REPOSITORY.
Conrad. "You may call me Waldmann,* then,"
said the collier. Conrad looked steadfa4ly at him
for some time, and at last answered-" Good! It
shall be so!-Methinks I shall do no wrong in ac-
cepting thine offer. I have often seen that people
take dogs for turnspits, and use other irrational ani~
mals about a household-why not then a goblin ?"-~
At this the collier laughed heartily, and said,-
"XVelI! this is certainly the first time that such
conditions were ever made with one of my rank; but
even for this very reason, and for the sake of variety,
I like it the better. So then, dear master, your hand
on the bargain! Conrad, however, insisted on some
special conditions; first, that his new servant should
never make it known .to Sabina, or the children,
that he had any connexion with the Field of Terror,
and still less, that he had come from the hideous
gloomy caverns of the Giant Mountain; secondly,
that within the limits of his master's house and gar-
den, no sort of diable~'ie should ever be exhibited;
and as Waldmann very readily agreed to all this,
the bargain was forthwith concluded, and they ~vent
home amicably together.
Sabina was not a little surprised at this addition
to her household, and entertained considerable feel-
ings of terror at the gigantic swarthy figure of the
new servant. The children also, would not, for
some time venture out of doors, if he were at work
in the garden or farm yard. However, by his quiet,
regular, and industrious conduct, Waldmann soon
gained the good opinion of every one; or if at any
time, in a foolish fit of merriment, he began to hunt
about with the dogs, or play tricks on the poultry, it
was found to be more in jest than really mischievouS~.
Even then, a single look from his master, was suffi.
cient to bring him again within his accustomed anJ
prudential limits.
Confiding in the promise of the mountain spirit~
$ In English, W5dman.
12

Conrad had again boldly ventured on the purchase
of a yoke of oxen; and with his plough newly re-
paired, went once more merrily to the field. Sabi~
na looked after him apprehensively, and yct ixtore
anxiously waited in the evening for his return, fear-
ing that he would at last come home, not only with
disappointed hopes, but more dangerously wounded
than before. Singing, however, and driving his
tractable fine oxen before him, Conrad marched,
while the first evening bell was ringing, through the
village. In high glee, he kissed his wife and chil-
dren, and even shook his black servant heartily by
the hand.
Many times also, did Waldmann lead out and
bring home the work-oxen, in this manner, while
Conrad, in his turn, staid at home and labored in
the farm yard or garden. A large portion of the
Field of Terror, was ere long ploughed up, and all
went on prosperously, to the astonishment of the
villagers, and envious displeasure of Sabina's ava-
ricious cousins. Conrad, however, often thought to
himself, '~ This is all but for a short time; and how
the harvest is to be leaped and brought home, Hea-
ven knows! Long before that season, Waldman's
servitude will be at an end, and the goblins on the
Field of Terror, may be more troublesoihe than
ever. Yet a labour of this kind," added he, "will,
of itself, strengthen both heart and hand, and per-
haps Waldmann, as he has indeed, frequently, in his
mirthful moments hinted, will, for the sake of old
friendship, restrain himself, till the field is cleared
of this one harvest at least."
The winter had now arrived; the labour on the
Field of Terror was ended; and Conrad industri-
ously plied with his oxen, at the necessary task of
bringing home wood for the stove and kitchen
hearth. About this time, it happened, one day, that
Sabina was called to a poor widow, in the village,
who had fallen sick of a fever, and whom she was in
the habit of assisting sedulously, so far as her newly
VOL. II.   B                 13

M

/

:

r


I

I

MARVELLOUS REPOSITORY.
am~endqd circumstances would allow. Only she was
now puzzled, in her husband's absence, how to dis-
pose of the children; Waldmann, however, entreat-
ed that she would give them in charge to him; and
as the little ones were accustomed to his stories, and
were willing to remain with him, Sabina at last
- agreed, and 'without farther hesitation, cheerfully
went on her charitable errand.
About an hour afterwards, Conrad returned from
the forest. He drew the wood-cart into the shed,
put his oxen into the stable, and then went merrily
home, to warm his stiffened limbs at the comfortable
kitchen fire. Suddenly he heard the voices of his
children, painfully weeping-instantly he started up,
burst open the door of the parlour, and found the
crouching together, under the stove, screaming wil
terror, and Waldmann jumping, meanwhile, makin~~
hideous grimaces, with a coronet of living fire on
his dishevelled and staring hair.,
"What the devil is all this?" said Conrad, in
great indignation-when, in a moment, the porten-
tious ornament on Waldman's head was extinguish-
ed; he stood humbly and in silence, till at last he
tried to excuse himself, by saying he had only made
game for the children. The little ones, however,
came still crouching and complaining to their father,
and told him how Waldmapn had at first terrified
them with wild stories, and~ afterwards appeared to
them wearing a sheep's head at one time, and a
dog's head at another. "enough-Enough !" inter-
rupted Conrad, "get thee gone fellow ! We don't
remain another hour under the same roof together !"
With these words he seized Waldmann, thrust him
out of doors, even as far as the outer garden gate.
Meanwhile he commanded the children to remain
quiet in the parlour;-their father was now return-
ed, and they felt secure against every danger.
The mysterious servant, at first bore all this with-
out a word; however, when he stood alone with Con-
:ad, amid the wintry landscape, he sa~it)laughing.
14

TII~ FIELD OF TERROR.
"Listen, Master! methinks we must again be re-
conciled to one another; I have indeed played a
('oolish trick, but shall never be guilty in like man-
ner again. It was only one offence-you must over-
look it." "Even in this very way," said Conrad,
"the same humour might seize thee again, and thou
wouldst easily terrify my children to madness. Our
contract, therefore, is at an end." "My half-.year
is not at, an end," said Waldmann, in defiance,
"therefore I shall return into thy house." Not a
step-not even to the threshold," said Conrad,
"thou hast irrevocably broken our bargain, by thy
cursed hobgoblinry. All that I can do for thee is to
pay thy full wages.-There it is, and get thee gone."
"Full wages!" said the spirit, laughing in scorn,
"knowest thou not my inexhaustible treasures in
the caverns of the mountain?" "It is not for thy
sake, but for my own, that I pay thee," sai(l Conrad,
"for I am resolved not to remain in. debt, either to
man or devil." XVith these words, he thrust the
money with violence into Waldmann's pocket.
"What shall now become of the Field of Terror?"
said the demon, half angrily. "'Whatever -God
pleases!" said Conrad. "Sixteen Fields of Terror
were to me nothing, when weighed against one hair
on the head of either of my children. Therefore,
begone, I say, unless you first wish to receive a
hearty beating, that you will remember !" "Softly !'~
said the spirit, "'When a being of my class assumes
the form of a man, he never fails to choose a stout
one. In the beating that you design for me,~ou
might chance to meet with the worst,, and then ~iod
be merciful to you !"-" That He has ever been,"
said Conrad, "and his providence has endowed me
with a stout frame also. To thy mountains, there-
fore, begone, thou hateful monster-I warn thee for
the lasttime!"
Then Waldmann, being at these last words vio-
lently provoked, fell upon Conrad, and a tough and
obstinate battle raged between them. They strug~
15

p

}

It

n
}


MARVELLOUS REPOSITORY.
gled backwards and forwards, and twined their
arms round each other, victory remaining, for a
long while uncertain, till at last, Conrad, by a mas-
ter-stroke in wrestling, brought his opponent to the
ground, kneeled upon his breast, and, continuing to
pommel him heartily as he lay, cried aloud: " Now
shalt thou learn what it is to lift thine arm against
thy liege master, thou treacherous fiend of the moun-
tains!"
The prostrate Waldmann, however, laughed so
heartily at all this, that Conrad, believing that he
made game of him, redoubled his blows with great-
er violence, till at last his victim called aloud, "Let
alone! Let alone! I do not laugh at thee, but at my-
self, and I now humbly beg pardon !" "That is an-
other affair," said the generous Conrad, who now
immediately rose up, and assisted his conquered ad-
versary to get upon his legs. "I have tried this
way of life long enough, in all conscience," said
Rubezahl, still laughing, "I dare swear it never
happened to any one of my rank before, to carry his#
education so far! But, listen, friend, you must at
least confess that I have dealt honourably by you,
for you well know that, in one moment, I could have
brought a whole troop of mountain spirits to my as-
sistance. However, to say the truth, I could not
hayc called on them for laughing."
Conrad looked thoughtfully at IRubezahl, who
continued his mirth, and at last said, "I must ac-
knowledge that thou hast reason now to bear me a
grudge, and of this I shall probably feel the conse-
quences, not only oh the Field of Terror, but else-
where. But, Sir, I cannot repent of what I have
done I used only the right of an honest household-
er, and all for the sake of my beloved children.
Truly, if it were yet to do, I should act heartily, in
the same manner."
"No, no!" said the laughing Rubezahl, "Give
yourself no trouble, I have for one time, had quite
enough. But of this much, however, be assured~
16

THE WANDERING JEW.
henceforward, from year to year, you may labour on
the Field of Terror, and not one spectre, while the
Giant Mountain stands, shall be visible there. Now,
farewell, mine honourable yet severe master !"
~ the;e words, and with a familiar and confi-
dential nod, he vanished, nor did Conrad ever be-~
hold him again. Rubezahi, however, failed not to
remember his promise, which, indeed, was much
more than fulfilled. An extraordinary blessing at-
t~nded all the labours of Conrad, ~nd he was, in a
short time, the richest farmer in the village. When
his children played upon the Field of Terror, which
both they and Sabina now visited without appre-
hension, they told sometimes, how the good Wald-
mann had come, ~nd with what pretty stories he
had entertained, them. At such times, the little
ones were agreeably surprised to find their pockets
stored with sweetmeats or glittering toys, among
which a valuable gold coin was frequently dis-
covered.

LEGEND OF THE WANDERING JEW.
IN 1228, the Metropolitan of Armenias, on his tra-
vels, arrived in En ~. and, and was in terrngated of
many things respecting the churches under h~ju-
risdiction.
* Among other things, being a~ked as to that Joseph
(concerning whom there is much talk among men,)
Who was present at the passion of the Lord, and
spoke with him, and who yet lives as a witness to the
truth of the Christian religion, and whether he had
ever seen or heard of him, seriously affirmed the
truth of such report; and a certain knight of Anti..
och, in l~s retinue, who was his interpreter, and
who was also known to one of the abbot's servants,
(by name Henry de Spigournel,) spoke in the
VOL.11.   B2        B2        17

1'

4-
p

4
'4
.4

Li


1

(

MAR VELL0US~ REPOSITORY.
French as follows: CC My master well knows that
man, and a little before he journied to the xvest, the
said Joseph ate at his table, whom he had often seen
and heard speak." And being afterwards asked re-
specting what passed between our Lord Jesus Christ
and the said Joseph, he answered thus: "In the
time of the passion of Jesus Christ, when, having
been taken by the Jews, he was brought before the
Governor, Pilate, in the pra4orium, to be judged by
him. Plate, finding no cause of death in him, said
to them, 'Do ye take him, and judge him accord-
ingto your own law.' lint as the Jews continued
to clamour yet more loudly, he dismissed l Barabbas,
according to their petition, and delivered to then~
Christ, that he might be crucified. While the Jews
were drawingg Christ without the pr~etorium, and
when he had come to the gate, and Was passing into
it, Cartaphilus, porter of the pr~torium to Pontius
Plate, struck him on the back with his fist, in a
contemptuous manner, and mocking him, said-' Go,
Jesus, go quicker-why do you delay?' Whereup-
on, Jesus, looking back on him with a severe coun-
ten ance, said-" I go, and thou shalt wait until I re~
turn :" it is said according to that saying of the
evangelist. Therefore, by th~ word of God, the
aforesaid Cartaphulus is still waiting; he having been
aged about thirty years at the time of the passion of
our Lord; and ever, as soon as he arrives at the age
of an hundred, he is seized, as it were, with an in-
curable infirmity, and is raiished in a sort of ecsta-
cy; and upon recovering his senses, finds himself
again returned back to the same age at which he
was in the year when our Lord suffered-so that he
may truly say, with the Psalmist, 'My youth is re~
newed like that of an eagle.' When the Catholic
faith increased, this same Cartaphilus was baptized
by that Ananias who baptized Saint P~ul, and was
called Joseph. He frequently sojourns in either
Armenia, and in other regions of the East, living
among the bishops, and other heads of the church-
Is

THE WANDERING JEW.
a man of holy conversation and piety, speaking lit
tie, and with circumspection~~saying nothing, ex-
cept when required by the bishops and holy men;
and sometimes he relates concerning the things of
antiquity, md the circumstances of the passion and
resurrection of Christ, and of the witnesses of the
resurrection-those, namely, who arose with Christ
from the grave, and went into the holy city, and ap-
peared to many. lie also speaks concerning the
apostles' creed, and their division and ministry; and
this without any laughter or levity, or any sign of
disbelief-being rather occupied by grief, and fear
of the Lord, ever expecting the advent of Jesus
Christ in fire, and the judgment of the world, and
fearing lest, at the last trial, he should find him still
angered against him, whom he had provoked by de-
rision. Many men come to him from the most dis-
tant parts of the world, rejoicing to see and converse
with him-among whom, if there be any worthy, lie
briefly answers their questions. He refuses all pre-
sents that are offered to him, being content with
moderate food and clothing; and he places all his
hopes of safety in this, namely, that he sinned in ig~
norance, and that our Lord prayed that his Father
might pardon his murderers, as unknowing what
they did; and that St. Paul, also, 'Sinning in igno-
rance, nevertheless deserved pardon; as also Peter,
who denied the Lord through frailty; while Judas,
who, through iniquity, (that is, through avarice,)
betrayed the Lord, hanged himself, and, his bowels
gushing out, thus ended his wretched life, Without
hope of salvation. For these reasons only, Cartaphi
lus hopes for salvation."
19


MARVELLOUS RE~PosIToRT                                     ASN     F rP1

FABLE CONCERNING CHRIsT'S RAIsING JAPHET, THE
SON OF NOAH-.
MAHOMET, being questioned respecting Noah's
ark, and the deluge, and the general extermination
caused by it, whether these things~ were true, and to
be believed according to the narration of Moses in
Genesis, answered and said to his disciples, " When
the Lord Jesus was walking about the confines of
Jeriusalem; preaching, being asked by his disciples
concerning the said deluge, he thus certified the
fact to their doubtful minds. Finding a piece of
turf lying before him, he struck it with his foot, and
said, ' Arise, Japhet, thou son of Noah!' whereupon
Japhet arose, springing, as -it were, out of the turf; a
man of goodly aspect, aged, but sorely astonished.
Jesus asked him, wherefore ,he was aifrighted,
whereupon he answered and said, 'Lord, hearing the
trumpet of thy voice, I feared, for I thought I was
called to the general judgment of the resurrection-"
Jesus answering, said to him, ' Fear not, for the
hour of judgment (or resurrection is not yet come.
But I have called thee from the grave, that thou,
who wast in the ark with thy father, mightest relate
the whole truth respecting it, to these who are here
bystanding. Japhet, thereupon, taking up the pa-
rable, thus began his relation: ' During the inunda-
tion of the deluge, we were in the ark, to wit, the
men apart, and the animals in the stable, which was
on one side of the ark, and the hay and corn on the
other side. When four months had elapsed, the ari
began to shake, as it ,were tottering, and to lean
towards that side in which the beasts were. For
the animals, accumulating their dung, while they
continually consumed the food which produced it,
gradually preponderated. -One side of the ark,
therefore, (namely, that which contained the corn,)
became elevated, while the other, (wherein were
20

the animals) was depressed in proportion, so that we
were in some danger, and feared greatly. Nor did
we dare to perform any thing of moment without
first consulting the Lord. Having, therefore, per-
formed a sterifice with prayer, the Lord was appeas-
ed, and said to us, ' Make yourselves a heap of the
dung of men and camels, instead of an altar, and
when you have sacrificed on it, you shall have a re-
medy for your tribulation.' Which when we had
done, a great sow issued forth oit of the heap, and,
by scattering abroad that -great quantity of filth,
w hereby the ark had before been nearly overset,
saved us. But, after a few days, the sow, having
performed its duly, and being no longer serviceable
to us, we judged it too unclean an animal, and some
amongst us thought even of casting it into the sea;
but being the gift of God, and through him the in.
strument of our safety, we still supported its pre-
sence, although unwillingly. In consequence of
' which trespass, the Lord sent upon us the following
chastisement: the sow, in snorting, emitted from its
nostrils, a troop of large famished mice, which, run
ning about the ark, destroyed, by nibbling, its
beams, its tackle, and all our provisions; and thus,
this same sow, which was sought by us, and given to
us, as a remedy, became, through our transgression
a great calamity; whilst we, therefore, repented,
and cried out to the Lord in our tribulation, the
Lord being appeased, said to us, ' Ye have with you
a lion--strike him on the forehead, with a hammer,
but not unto death, and he shall be your deliverer-~
whom, when'we had stricken, according to the com-
mand of the Lord, he roared aloud, and, in roaring,
emitted out of his mouth a cat, which pursued the
mice until it destroyed them, and freed the ark from
that pest. And to the end that you may not doubt
the production of the sow from the dung of the men
and camels, an evident argument proves it: for the
sow, in its interior parts, is assimulated unto man-
and, in its exterior parts, being a quadruped, it does

I

'1'
Kb
ii:
p
LI

.11

1I

~, I

-1 }~


I

MARVELLOUS REPOSITORY
not differ much from the camel, and always delight
in digging into, and scattering about, heaps of fifth
And, that you may believe that the mice proceededt
from the nostrils of the sow,.ye may knowitingt
mice always' delight in .di gig and inhedbfromg
holes in the earth, whence they are sothalle fomy
the moisture of the earth, (p..) And, tha yo a
not call. in question the truth of the cat's issuing
from thie mouth of the lion, the cat is lie the lin,
and as one of the same family in the form ofie
body, and in its disposition to prey and rapintil
From thenceforth the ark was borne in safey Maumtl
the inundation ceased."-T'hese things Mahom.t
affirmed that Jlaphet related to Christ and his disc1i
pies, when they inquired of him concerning tlous ak
but the same will appear- to every man, fivolous
and altogether differing from. the truth.

THE APPARITioN.
How often when I have been in company, and thsu-
conversation has turned on the impossib1 iitell su
pernatural appearances, have I heard ol th'se
gent people observe:-" To be sure, such thingsare
not to be accounted for, but facts prove that theywaed
possible." This assertion was commonly foledeit
by a long string of circumstances, proving to hemis-
ence- of ghosts, which had occurred eiter ft the-
selves or to their friends. Some of thesth lasuare
certainly very striking. It is therefore wit p liute-
that I increase the number, with the flowing lie
rally true narr ative which befel myself at Coeg e-
I had already been a year and a half at the nird-
sity, and had lived during that time, in th  hr
story of the house then rerited by Professor -
The room belonging to the maid servant who atsend-
ed me, and Rose, ,the Professor's pretty nursey-

THE APPARITION.
maid, was on the second floor., One night, in the
month of December, I came home about eleven
o'clock, and, in passing, went into the servant's
apartment to light a candle. Here I began to joke
with their, about their carelessness, in leaving their
door open so late, and threatened, laughing, to pay
them a mnconlight visit before long. " Yes," replied
the nursery maid, " you tried to do it last night, but
why did you not come in? you were afraid, I sup-
pose, because it was so dark; but we unlocked the
door ,again, as soon as you were gone." I assured
the girl that she was mistaken, and that I had never
made such an attempt. Rose's companion confirm-
ed the girl's story, and I persisted in my assertion
which was strictly consistent with truth.
The girls were as much at a loss what to think of
the matter as myself, till at length my maid took
it into her head, that the nocturnal visitor of the
preceding night could be no other than the ghost of
the late Dr. 5-., the former possessor of the house,
by whom she assured me it was yet haunted.. On
this~she described hiim as a tall thin man, in'a scarlet
p lush coat, with a huge wig, spindle shanks, and
Long withered fleshless hands. -At this idea and ac-
count I laughed heartily, took my candle, and retired
to my apartment, where I drank a few glasses of light
wine, and read for a short time, before I went to bed.
I know not how long I might have slept, when the -
abovementioned Dr. S5. appeared, in the identical
dress which the maid had described; and, without
ceremony, or uttering a single word, seized me with
his skeleton hand, below the ri ht breast. I at-.
tempted to defend myself, and t is awakened me.
The doctor had vanished, but still I felt his ice cold
band, below my bre ast. I kept striking at it, threw oft'
the bed clothes, talked aloud to convince myself:I was
not dreaming, and struck with increased violence at
the hand that held me fast, but in vain;' I found it
impossible to. disengage myself-" It cannot be a
dream," cried I, springing out of bed. I pai to the

{

;lj

I

V

11]


I

MARVELLOUS REPOSITORY.
window, and tried to throw it up, but as it would
not immediately open, I dashed it in pieces with such
force, that the noise brought a shoemaker, who lived
on the opposite side oC the street, and who was still
at work to his window. "Well don e," cried he,
"some tipsy student or other, at the professor's
windows."-I could not forbear laughing aloud, at
the man's conjecture. During all this time, I was
struggling with the death cold hand, and striving in
Vain to release myself from its grasp. I looked out
of the Window, to be convinced I was in full posses-
sion of my faculties, and still feeling the strange
band maintain its hold, I began to consider how I
should procure a light. At length it occurred to me
to use my right hand, for hitherto I had fought only
with my left; and behold the icy hand quitted its
place; forit was no other than my own. I had pro-
bably lain uncovered, and had grasped my side in
consequence of the cramp, or some ~other affection
of that kind. Next day I found visible traces of this
nocturnal apparition, in five black marks under my
breast. Had I possessed more delicate nerves, a
little more faith in ghosts, and a timid character, I
might easily, after jumping out of bed, and cow.
yin cing myself that I was awake, have fainted away,
and next day have shown my black marks as proof
positive, that the kind hearted Dr. S-, who took
pleasure ~ll his life in doing good, had appeared to
me in the character of a persecuting spirit.
Unimportant as this story may appear, in many
respects, still I think it may furnish a key to the ex-
planation of many accounts of apparitions.
24

[

I

ARCHY TAIT,
THE VILLAGE CHRONICLE

'P
i~t~

WERE endless task, in numbers to relate,
The ceaseless wanderings of old "Archy Tait"..~
His lonesome travels thro' the trackless moss~
His hair-breadth accidents, adventures eross-~
His stories frightful, meaningless, and odd-.
Of ghostly Visions on his mighty road-
Of voices bursting from the darksome glen--.
"Of tumbling armies," and of headless men-.
Of sheeted ghosts, and death foreboding specks
Of spreading lights on horses' ears and necks--
Of nightly rap-..-.eluding sick man's ear-~-
But shaking every limb of nurse to hear-.-.-....
Of Coffins hammered at the floo~ of night-.-.
Warning of morning job the quaking wright~.
Of wraiths that take our form, to let us know
What hours of future life the fates bestow.-...
Of fires that cross the doubtful traveller's way,
And blaze, to lead his homeward steps astray-..
And he would speak of elves, all clad in green,
On fairy knowe, or greensward valley seen,
Their airy march has passed him on the lea--.
The gingling steed, the peal of jollity.
Of changing Imp--he spoke, no care could rear,
Which backward seemed to orp, from year to year
From morn to night, some hellish trick that planned,
And from a nine years' cradle cursed and banned-..-.
Which trailed its toad-like form around the fire,
Or crawl'd on knees and elbows, through the mire,
At eventide upset the milk-maid's pail
Tied up the littered cattle, tail to tail-
VOL. n.    C                   25

I I-
I;


MARVELLOUS REPOSITORY
Then held its sides, and yelled, to hear the roar,
And see the rushing milk-maid tumble o'er,
And he has heard the wizard Curlers ply
Their gleesome game, beneath a wintry sky,
As up the nightly i9Link, the viewless stone,
With sweepand shout, and booming speed, has gone
Of "Brownie," he could tell, his hairy strength
Across the midnight hearth-Stone laid at length-~
'rhe corn he treshed-the various work he did-
The peats h&amp;hurled at lazy varlet's head-
His hatred of deceit-the means he chose
To punish her who tasted "Brownie's broze.",
Oh, I have sat from eve to early morn,
On Archy's endless stream of "stories" borne-
Eyed every movementlistened every sound-
Called into forms of meaning shapes around-
Yet, still intent to learn each tale of dread,
Tho' deepening o'er my cheek the safron spread-
rhe fading ingle urgedinto a blaze,
From every rafter seen a Terror gaze;
The bounding line of light and darkness scanned,
And sudden flight againstt sudden danger planned.
Rest to thy Spirit ~Archy,"~-pCaceful rest-
Amidst thy fellow-spirits of the blessed-
And ne'er may'st thou, with ghostly visage, come,
Around this earth, in "spectre guise to roam-
With thy unearthly .presence to aifright,
Some future wandering" .flrchy" of the night.
J uv~NALI5 Jij]~UOR.

NOTES TO ARCHY TAIT
As these stories of OUt forefathers are now gradually
dying away, and in a few years will, in all probahilitY~ em-
tirely vanish, from the creed of our peasantry, it may be
as amusing, to those who consider the study of the human
mind, under any peculiarity of impression, as jnterostilig,
26

ARCHY TAIT.

to be put in possession of'a specimen of' those superstitious
legends, with which the memory, or rather the imagination
of many an Archy, about forty years ago, was stored.
~c His lonesome travels through the trackless moss."
"I was laundering," said Archy, "ae misty morning,
just atween day and the sun, thro' Gilchristland moss, and
aye as I gaed on, the mOss seemed to spin round, and
stacks to grow Out o' the heather knowe~ before me. At
last, I threw mysel down, just in a fit o' desperation, he!-
ly-flaught, on a dry tuft of ling, xvhen-Guid shall be my
witness-a pot o' fine yellow goud guineas lay peeping
through thc tod-tails, straight under my nose. The foul
Thief, thinks I, has e'en a plot upon aul' Archy, but he'll
cheat him, if he can; so down goes my guid aik stick into
the saft peat flow, and off I sets for hame as fast as my
feet could carry me. But rest I could na, and rest I did
na, till, with the aul' clasped Bible in my hand, I wized
away west, to see what was become of the staff and the
poze I had left behind me-and just as I set my nose o'er
the Hird knowe, a wee aboon Deansyett, ye ken, and was
beginning to clear my cen frac the dew draps, for it was a
dawky morning-what was to be seen, d'ye think, no my
single kent sticking in the mud whar I left it, but a hale
regiment o' guid aik cudgels, every ane o' them as like my
am, as ac clioup is like to another. ,I trow I did na let
ony grass grow to my heels, till I was fairly housed and
seated on the bink ayont the fire-and, frae that day to
this, my guid aik cleeky has never been mair hear tell o'."
"His hair-breadth accidents, adventures cross.
When I was a halflins Laddie, hiding the 'Guidman 0'
Auchincairn's stirks, (Archy loquitur et loquetur,) I mind
it just as well as if it war nae farer gane than yestreen-
me and ane o' the servan-lasses-and a bonny bit fodgel
red cheekit gawky it was-used to milk the Kyc, like,
every night regularly, about eight o'clock-wee!, as I am
telling ye, I was just pu'ing away a calf, that was a wee
thing countermacious, and I'll no deny it, for I was a wee
hailikit inysel' in these days, giving Jenny a bit jiooss in
the bye gaun, no thinking o' ony ill eitherin Guid shall be
27

1;.


"'I

1~

MARVELLOUS REPOSITORY.
my protection; as I thought I heard a queer unearthly
greet coming down the shank, and wizing aye nearer and
nearer to the byre door. Od, I thought I should havG
dwarfed wi' downright fear, and Jenny, silly thing, was
neither to bin' nor to haud, but out o' a' reason, running
up and down the group, like a creature clean dementia
The very Kye shook at the stake, and the bits o' calfs,
poor elfs, war like to rout their end; wed close to the
door cheek to be certain, it comes-and sic an' a fearful'
skerhug as it set up, as gin it had been an aul' body a'
pu'ed to pieces 'xvi' pincers. There was no way o' escape,
but by th~ byre door, whar the awesome cwature was
standing century, an' the wee bit can'le doup was nearly
burnt out, Jenny had lost a' reason, and had taken to
the twenty-third psalm, an' I had said the Lor&amp;s prayer
t~vice o'er, without ony effect. There was nac time to be
lost, for the very rafters aboon our heads war dining xvi'
the skerl, sae down I pu's Jenny's Kirk Bible, that, as
Providence had ordered it, was lying on the byre wa
head, the guid places war a' marked wi' rose leaves,
which Jenny used xvhiles to smell at-let nae 'servan'-Iass
ever be without a Bible-and bethinking mysel' o' the
power o' the word, in the guid aul' times-an' saining my-
sel' some twa score o' times o'er, xvi' the open xvord turn-
ed towards the door, out I flew, like an arrow out of a
boxy, an' out came "avoid ye Satan," in the very teeth
o' the enemy. But I trow well, frae that day to this, we
never heard main o' the "greeting Bogle."
" Of ghostly visions on his mighty road."
Let naebody ever try to play tricks wi' the foul Thief',
for he's aye sure, ae way or another, to get the better o'
them at last. It xvas a tempting o' Providence, and a
provoking o' Satan, but xvhat wad ye hae o' a young fool-
ish laddie, nae twa-an'-thretty at the time? 1 kent fu'
weel that Will of Dressart-land wad be coming thro' the
town-cleugh, after supper-time, just to visit his Joe like;
sae naething wad sam me, but I wad gie him a fright, and
dressing mysel' in a bottomless sack, and rubbing my
hands and face against the sides of the muckle broth-pot,
off I sets for the gray stane anist the toxvn-cleugh. 'Wed,

ARCHy TAIT.
it was a clear moonlight night, but yet I canna say but I
felt a wee eerie,-l was but halflins satisfied wI' my er-
rand-down, howsomever, I claps upon the apron o' the
gray stane; and keeps my e'e aye wast o'er, on the look..
out for Willy-but whenever I thought I saw him coming,
it turned out to be either a heather-coxv or a rash-bush.
I had glowered till my very e'e strings war crampit~and
was just casting a look about me in a careless way, when
plump upon the grimrned face and sheeted body of a
brother ghost, closely seated by my elbow, my e'en cam'
down. It sat a wee still, an' spak na-I thought the
gray whin was gaun frae below me-it shook like a Wa-
bron-leaf-I had nae power either to speak or to move;
it was just like a night-mare. At length, as if to relieve
me from the awfu' horrors of silence, and to claim a kind
o' friendly connexion (the Lord be xvi' us!) wi' poor
Archy, it whispe~cd in my ear these words, which I canna
forget:
"Ye're come to fley, and a'm come to fley;
We'll ~it tlie-giddi,~, we'll sit the-giddy."
They may sit here that likes their company, thinks I, (for
by this time I had come a wee to mysel') but I'll sit nae
langer than I can help-sae, flinging aff the aul' sack, and
putting my soul and body into the keeping o' the Alost
flee, I was o'er the muir, ere ever ye could have said
"Jack Robison." Next day the sack was found on the
Spot, a' torn to Pieces-"the Lord be wi' us!"
Of voices bursting from the darksorne glen.
It was rather late on a har'st night, as I was coming
hame frae, Croalchapel, up by the Nether Pothouse, and
just snooping awa' alang the woods o' Loch-dunton,
whar the aul' Pyot bigs her nest-ye ken, a wee aboon
the black charcoal pit-and there was neither moon nor
stars~naetijj~g but a fraught o' fire every now and than,
to keep the road by-when, just at the root o' the pyot..
tree, and no a stane~cast fra whar I stood, I hears an aw-
some groaning, and sighing,.and maening, as ifLsome puir
frail failt body had been gasping its last. Help, poor
Callow, after snouking a wee about the roots o' the hazel
bushes, Comes back to me yowling, wi' his tail atween his
VOL. u.     C 2

f

U
I,
ii I


I

811'

I
I

~ARVgLLOUS REPOSITORY.
feet--an' out frae amang mine nac power on earth could
stir him. Yea, yea, thinks I, the aul' boy h~rs e'en ta'en
up his quarters in a charcoal pit the night, an' it's no for
nought that the .glaed whistles--but, thro' the strength o'
GuidI'll set him at defiance Sae up I gacs, firm and
fearless, till I sees the figure of an aul' man, in a Kilrnar-
nock, night-cap, wi' a gray-looking double rocking an'
rowing back and font, to and fro, under the scoung o' a
hazel bush. "Ye're unco sair forfouchen, man," says I
-(for it's safer aye to hac the first word o' ought ill)-
"what's the matter wi' ye? that's no a guid bed for a
sick body, in the hou,~dunZb-deOd o' a caul' har~st night."
It took nac mair notice o' me than gin I had been the
aul' Pyot jarking. "Awed," says I, " I sall neither
inak' nor meddle wi' ye mair, but leave ye to the care o'
him xvha taks tent &amp; deil as wee1 as body." I had na
weel said' the word, whan I thought I was dung bun' wi'
a splutter o' fire, an' up the Pothouse-linn gaed the most
awfu' yelloch I ever heard afore or sinsyne. They're a'
wed keepit that God keeps, my bairn!
" Of tumbling amries, and of headless men."
Whether the word Amrie, applied in the south of Scot-
land, the true Saxon district, to that large square press,
which being placed immediately under the dresser, forms
a ~ady and convenient receptacle for broken meat, meal
basin, with a long et center of odds and ends-has any
connexion with the "arnus," or alms, we presume not
(Jamiesone vivente) to determine. It is sufficient for our
present purpose, to have made our readers concede of this
-object, as large and shapeless.
"As I was coming down by the chaise craig, and wear~
ing awa' by staffy-biggam, alang Maxwell's cruik, ye un-
derstand, just as I had crossed~ the ford, and was drawing
my plad up o'er my shoulders. The night was fearful'
dark and rainy, what does I meet, wot ye, but a coach and
six driving furiously down the very face o' the scaur. The
coach was a' set round about wi' black lamps, an' some-
thing looked out o' it like a muckle black cat, just ready
to jump out o' an 'amrie' door. But ere I had breath to
~ay 'His presence be about us,'-the vision had vanished,
30

ARCHY TATT.
and I could hear, for see I couldna, the muckle arnrk~
stenning an' o'erenning down the brae, a' the way to the
Mar-burn, xvhar it fizzed in the water like a red hot gad
o' aim, preserve usa'!"
" Of sheeted ghosts, and death-foreboding specks.
Ay, Sirs, my sister Jeanie's death was a sair blow to
me-in spite o' a' the medicines I could apply-and I
spared neither Tartar nor Black .~qpy#7e, she boud to die,
her weir-boud to be dried, an' it fell to my care to see hot
straughtered, an' decently laid in her coffin. It was a sad
sight an a sair ane-but that was na the warst o't after
a', for the ~oflln at a sharp turn in~ the planting weist off
the stakes, and the lid was fairly broken up, I saw my am
sister's face wi' the dead clacs o'er't. My poor Jeanie
was buried at last, an' liame I comes in fhe afternoon, an'
down I sits in my lonely bield, by the ingle cheek, it was a
cauld hearth, an' a dowy~ seat atweel. There was the
chair she used to sit on, there was the Cutty still lying on
the liud, wi' the embers o' the last blast she drew stick-
ing in the throat o't-every thing seemed to speak &amp;
Jeanie. The shoon standing wi' the heels down by her
bed-side, and the very cat, that rubbit itsel' contentedly
on her apron tail, whan she was drawing out a thread o'
sale yarn. An' tho' her an' I war often no that great
friends whan she was living, for she had an awfu' tongue
whiles, an' was nae x~ays sparing o't, I was unco wac
atweel, now that Jeanie was housed in the caul yerd, an'
me sitting by a bieTn pantry, and a warm Greishoch.-So
out I stayers, for rest I could na' within.-It was like no
using Jeanie wed, to enjoy ony o' this ~varl's comforts,
and her sac lanely an' sac comfortless, beneath the dr:~ p
o' an' auld ash tree. The sun was gaen down, an' I
could hear the sugh o' the bumbling pool--sac down I
claps close by the side o't, just to doze a wee, for I was a
kind o' stupid.-But oh my bairns, may nane o' you ever
ken my ken, that fearfa' hour, for as sure as my name's
Archy, did my sister Jeanie rise out o' the black belling
water, an' try to clasp me in her arms. I gat but ac glisk
o' the apparition, till it raise high up in the air, an' gaed
alT wi' the flap and the scream of 'a Lang Neckit Heron.'
3'

|ii

1'
Ii" I
U
31

If,
i~i
U


I

MARVELLOUS REPOSITORY.
The Lord be xvi' the just, and keep them a' in their graves
till the resurrection!
Of nightly rap eluding sick man's ear."
I remember wed, my mother, honest woman, wha'
was never in her life blamed for Iceing-and she had been
sitting up ae winter night xvi' the old Guidman o' Gil-
christland, a~dd Crairie-ye ken-wha wore aye the r~d
nightcap, an' prayed sac loud an' sac lang on the Quarrie
Knowe; an' if he binna wed now, mony a ane may be
feart, that's a sure thing;-aweel, as I was telling ye, the
Guidman was a wee easier-a' the family had gane to rest
-the doors war a' shut, and the dogs a' sleeping. My
mother had laid down "th' Afflicted Man's Companion,"
which she had read the Guidman into a sort o' dover,
and had thrown herself' back just for a gliffy, to tak' a
nap, in the easy chair-~vhen skeip goes the mid-door, as
if it had been fairly riven in twa, before her cen. She
visited the kitchen; she peeped into the pantry door; there
was not even a mouse stirring. The Guidman died nine
iPeeks after, nac doubt it was a warning.
"Of coffins hammered at the noon of rnght.
There is a Wright, or Carpenter, still living, xvith
whom the author of these sketches has conversed, and
who assured him in perfect sincerity, that, in his earlier
days, and when he was first apprenticed to the trade, his
master was wont to waken him in the night-time, that he
might mark the hammering in the work-shop adjoining-'
nor did the augured event ever, of course, fail to follow!
" To punish her who tasted' Brownie's braze.'"
Brownie, in more recent times, (and for his earlier his-.
tory and character, consult King Jame's VI. Da~monolo-
gie, page 126, the splendid edition 1616, by the Bishop of
Winton,) was pretty generally supposed to take 'up his
residence during the day, in what the farmer termed his
peat garret, immediately over, and in full view of the
kitchen, from which commanding station, the immemorial
residence of undisturbed vermin, he sent down his black
32

TERRIFIC SPECTRE.
messengers of admonition, in the shape and substance of
peat clods, upon the heads of such ~' servan-lassies;' as
seerned disposed to negligence or indiscretion. His pie-
senee, even when not thus attested, was, at times, mdi-
cat ed, by the self-rocking of' a cradle, or by the continued,
and pendulum measured motion, from  ' wig to Wa"- of
the slack rope, which generally crossed the farmer's ha~,
and over which were flung, in wide spreading suspense, all
the loose suspendibles of the family, such as sheepskins,
worsted aprons, stockings,~ hoshings, &amp;c. One day, ac-
cording to the record of veritable tradition, a maid-ser-
v ant, who had been in the habit of preparing, and serving
up Brownie's morning repast, (he-being at this time very
intent upon a threshing job, in the barn,) whether from
mere curiosity, or from a desire (like Sancho's jesters) to
please his guest, is not fully ascertained, inadvertently put
the spoon, which had been used in stirring the broze, to
her lips, whereupon, Brownie, who did not seem altogetl~cr
to relish this mark of attention, proceeded in the coolest
and most civil manner imaginable, to toss her backwards
and forwards, like a flying shuttlecock, over one of the
barn-bawks, repeating, at every toss he made, this short
menitory speech.
"I'll learn you to sup Brownie's broze"

~,444'.

TERRIFIC SPECTRE IN SWITZERLAND.
TRAVERSING the Lake of Lucern, (says a travel-
ler,) just as a thunder storm had ceased to redouble
the tremendous echoes from the surrounding moun-
tains, an ancient Swiss, who had lately become a her-
mit, conducted mc in his skiff to the largest of two
islands in the Muotta, where the remains of the an-
cient and majestic tower of' Swanau, (still beautiful
in its ruins) is the first object that strikes the eye of
a stranger. At present it is nearly covered with
ivy, and is the principal resort of the mystic ravens,
B3         33

II
Ii


i

MARVELLOUS REPOSITORY.
and other melancholy birds of night. In 1303 it was
the residence of one of the petty tyrants under the
Counts of Hapsbourg, who from this recess, defend-
ed by the rocks and surrounding waters, oppressed
the whole district with impunity. The tyrant at
length having carried off a young woman, whom
he intended as a victim of his brutality, this act
brought on the punishment he had so long merited.
In fine, her two brothers surprised the infamous ra-
visher, murdered him, and threw his body into the
lake~ but still fearing the vengeance of the other
great lords, they succeeded in raising all the district
in Their defence, who besieged and destroyed the
whole castle, excepting the tower abovementioned,
which they suffered to remain as a monument to fu-
ture ages of the crimes of the owner, and the just
vengeance that followed them. It should have been
first mentioned, that the apparition of the young
woman, who was also murdered by her brutal ra-
visher, was the first cause of the discovery. Her
brothers being fishermen, were employed upon the
lake some nights after she had been missingwhen,
after a sudden clap of thunder, the most' horrid
shrieks issuing from the interior of the castle, drew
all their attention that way, and they immediate
ly perceived their sister in a long white robe, and a
torch in one of her hands, pursuing a figure (Iressed
in complete armour, whom the brothers well know-
ing to be the Count, only waited till the return of
day, to ascertain the fact, which led to the retalia-
tion before mentioned. But, what is still most r~-
inarkable, the same apparitions, according to the
general tradition of the whole country, are seen on
the same night every year; the female with the
burning torch, and the flying Count in complete ar-
*i'nour, as before specified; a circumstance which, it
is generally believed, has contributed to deter the
succeeding nobility of that country from thus op
pressing their vassals.
34

FALSE GUARDIA~4.

THE FALSE GUARDIAN.

ABOUT fifty years ago there arrived in London an
elderly gentleman and his wife. They took a house
formerly situated in Old-street, and there lived in a
very recluse and solitary manner; keeping no ser-
vant, the wife 'doing all the business of the house
herself. In this manner they lived some time, till
one evening, as the gentleman was taking his usual
walk, he suddenly, as it is supposed, fell down and
expired, where he was found by some laborers re-
turning from work. In a few nights after his burial
the wife complained to her neighbours of the house
being haunted by his apparition, which often ap-
peared to her, requesting some of them to sit up
with her a few nights. Accordingly, some of them
offered themselves, however, totally disbelieving her
story. When night came, the woman went to bed,
and two or three men sat up in the kitchen. Best
part of the night passing without any molestation,
they now thought themselves j)erfectly secure from
any ghostly attacks. At length the tremendous
hour of twelve arrived, when, to their great terror
and astonish~ei~t, the large passage door suddenly
unbolted, and in came the form of a large bear! It
passed through the kitchen, without taking any no-
tice of them, ascended the stairs, and entered the
room where the woman lay, (but, before it entered,
assumed a less terrible appearance, viz, that of her
husband,) where its chief aim seemed to be to draw
her out of bed; which, when it could not effect, it
instantly vanished. The same apparition continued
several nights, but in various shapes, such as a bear,
mastifl &amp;c. &amp;c. It at length gained its point so far
as to get the woman out of bed, and lead her into an
adjoining apartment, where it pointed to a certain
chest, and then vanished. She got the chest opened,
and found in it the writings of an estate belonging to

~j f
t

4


MARVELLOUs REPOSITORY.
two young ladies to whom he had been left guardian,
and which he had defrauded them of. She immedi-
ately sent for them, and- restored them their writ-
ings. They took her with them, and with them she
ended her days, free from the burden of a troubled
conscience. One of the persons who sat up in the
house is now alive, from whose-mouth we had the
relation.

THE FIERY ORDEAL.
TOWARDS the end of the Greek empire at Con-
stantinople, a general, who was an object of suspi-
cion to. his master, was urged to undergo th fery
proof of the ordeal, by an archbishop, a subtle cour-
tier. The ceremony was this; three days before the
trial, the patient's arm was inclosed in a bag, and
secured by the royal signet; he was expected to
bear a red hot ball of iron three times, from the altar
to the rails of the sanctuary wihou artfie and in
pleasantry. "1 am a soldier," said he, "and wl
boldly enter the lists with my accusers; but a layman
a sinner like myself, is not endowed with the gift of
miracles. Your piety, holy prelate, may deserve
the interposition of heaven, and from your hands
will receive the, fiery globe, the test of my inno'
cence." The archbishop stared, the emperor snii-
ed, and the general was pardoned,.
36    .    .   s    -

tfl~

1B O A RW OL F.

IN the mountainous region, called the Berg.-
strasse, which lies along the banks of the Rhine, it
was formerly the custom for the young men, when
they came to a certain age, to enroll themselves in a
company of hunters, for the express pups  fpr
suing and destroying wolves; for which reason, the
band was called t'he woif-slaughterers. Indeed, that
part of the country is so craggy, so full of caverns,
and so crowded with- woods, that it is the p!cei
the world most fitted for the harbour of wild beasts
anme tcorde found therer so many, in fact that had
not the woif-slaughterers been very active, darn
y oung men, it would have been ahn'st impossblet
have resided there; and it wapyn thei eeto
tions, that the villagers of Fendeneheiy w ere abe
to preserve any cattle. Maygeaondlg
before the invention of fire-arms, ther wer ad tong
head of this band, two young men, who were atih
cularly successful in their attempts against the
wolves. They were both strong, fearless, and well
skilled in the use of their weapons, and they were
considered as chiefs of the troop, because each had
destroyed more wild beasts, with his own hands,
than any other two belonging to it, although, be..
tween themselves, the number was equal; for if
Hendrick, (so one was called,) at -any time had the
advantage, Wolfgang, the other, never diesisted from
VOL.. u.   D                  37

1W

IW

/

1~fl

~ If
I.

/

~I $

y


I

t

MARVELLOUS REPOSITORY.
the chase till he had brought home the head of a
wolf, to reduce their conquests to the same level.
This rivalry was, however, not the occasion of any
enmity between these young men; for, as they had
been brought up from children together, they were
accustomed to strive for the same prizes, and engage
in the same 11ndertakings, so that they were always
most pleased when both succeeded in the same de-
gree. Indeed, it is said, that when one had the su-
periority, he always relaxed his exertions, till the
other came up with him, and that they retained this
habit in the chase; for Wolfgang has been known,
after he had killed one beast, to miss the next pur-
posely, that Hendrick might strike it; and Henorick
has done the sar~me, when fortune was on his side.
Another reason why there was n~ quarrel between
them, perhaps~ was, that they were both equally
handsome. Not that they were alike in feature,
though they were of the same height; for Wolf-
gang's beauty had a boldness in it, which 1-leudrick'S
wanted, but then Hendrick's countenance was calni
and interesting, and as their tempers agreed with
their p~rson5, each thought his own exterior the best,
so that envy did not threaten to render their friend-
ship of short duration. There is, however, always
some stumbling block in the way of perfect hap-
piness, and this the friends met with.
it chanced, one evening, whilst returning by
themselves from the chase, bearing on the points of
their spears, the heads of two wolves, which they
had just slaughtered, that they passed through a
deep narrow glen, leading between high rocky
banks, from the clefts of which grew out birch and
mountain ash trees, in such numbers, as to over-
shadow their path, and give a wild gloom to the
space beneath. 'rhey had not reached half way,
when they heard a loud growl, and looking carefully
round, espied a hideous monster, partly concealed
amongst tall stones and low bushes. Wolfgang
cried out," a boar! a boar !" and Hendrick exclaini
33

TI{i BOARW0LF.
ed, "a wolf! a wolf!" both preparing instantly to
attack it. But the brute, which was employed in
devouring its prey, after displaying a frightful pair
of ja~vs, and making show of resistance, turned its
tail, and fled through the underwood, hidden from
their view, till it reached the mouth of the ravine,
when springing suddenly out, it escaped into a more
*     open country. The huntsrnen, however, knowing
that it must choose to fly through the gorge of the
*     pass, or remain in the deli, had hurried that way,
and were close at its heels, when it darted from the
thicken. This gave them hopes, and giving full rein
to their horses, they pursued it over a wide piece of
healthy waste. They had now a good opportunity
for ascertaining the nature of the animal they fol-
lowed; but, notwithstanding their skill in the chase,
they were unable to decide what kind of beast it
was; for, though it had the straight back, bushy tail,
and long gallop of a wolf, still it had the thick,
bristly, and snorted head of a boar, and its feet
were not similar to those of any animal they had
seen. I'hey, therefore, supposed it might be some
mongrel brute, or one of the wild beasts brought
from Syria, which had broken loose from the me-
nage of the Archbishop of Mentz. But, be it what
it might, they pushed after it with the greatest reso-
lution, because, when they had started it from its
lurking place, they perceived it had been tearing in
pieces the body of a child.
The direction which the monster took, led them
across a small stream, that divided their district
frm the neighboring one, and brought them at
last, into a place dangerous for horsemen, and diffi-
cult for the pursuit of game. It was an extensive
level, reachir~g from the rivulet to a distant range of
hills, and would have been a plain had it not been
covered with hugh masses of detached rock, scatter
ed about it, as if a large mountain had been dashed
to pieces, and strewed over its surface. Many of
the fragments were so large, that they resembled
89

Ii
* * * 1~111
*                 Ij
Il

1~ 4

em.

1


I.

K

~1ARVELLO~S REPOS1TOI~
gmall cliffs, and from their tops and sides gieW uiit
and hung down, trees and shrubs of every descrip-
tion. Several lay as if fallen against each other, so
as to leave caverns and arches between their sides,
and the red glare of the sun, setting behind the
hills, gleamed through these openings in a wild and
beautiful manner. Other pieces were small and
plentiful, lying in heaps a~ wdl as separately,
amongst the larger masses; so that, though there
were many roads and passages between these rocks,
still they were rendered unsafe for horses by these
lesser stones.
The hunters had scarcely entered this region, be-
fore they lost sight of their game; but, hoping to re-
gain the scent, they dashed forward amongst the
pathways, and after a short time saw the brute turn-
ing roun(l the corner. This tempted them still far-
ther, till, after bewildering themselves amidst the
intricacies of this desert, they gave over the pursuit~
having ceased for some time to see the monster, and,
indeed it was growing so dark, that they would not
have been long able to view it had it been before
them.
They now thought of returning home to Fienden
heim, and turned their horses the way contrary to
that which they had come, and, as they rode along,
wondering what kindof beast they had chased, they
found that their exertion had both fatigued them,
and made them excessively thirsty. Accordingly,
they resolved to take a full draught from the stream,
when they reached it, and agreed to ask permission
of the Lord of that domain to bring their whole
troop on the following day, to give full pursuit to so
dang~roUs a monster. They were talking about ~he
dogs and weapons they would bring irjth them,
when they caught a glimpse of a light, at a short dis-
tance, and wishing to obtain, if possible, something
better than a draught of water, to quench their
thirst, they made towards it, and arrPved at the door
'if a residence, half cottage, and half cavern, which
40

THE BOARWoLF.
stood under the side of one of the largest niasscs or
rock, and they recollected that this place was the
habitation of a hermit, a recluse so austere that he
hardly ever suffered himself to be seen by any body.
They k~-iocked at the door, however, and it was
opened, not by an old man, with a white beard, as
they expected, but by a beautiful girl, of about six-
teen, whose face and figure far excelled those of all
*the daughterss of their native hamlet, and, in truth,
of any other place they knew. She blushed at first,
and seemed inclined to close the door again, but
Wolfgang asked, in a tone of compliment, that she
would give hun a draught of milk, and Hendrick
seconded him, with such gentle supplication, that
she felt almost compelled to speak; and, then, not
liking to refuse s6 small a request, she brought
out a lage jug, not of milk, but of true Rhenish
wine, which she poured out into horns, an(I offered
to each of the huntsman. They accepted her gifts
with many thanks, which she received with smiles;
and by way of prolonging the conversation, they in
quired whether she had seen or heard of any strange
heast'near her habitation. She replied, that, within
the last days, her father had told her that he had
seen an animal that he had never seen before, and
had bidden her be careful that she was not surprised,
for that it was very ferocious, and had carried off
the child of one of the inhabitants of the village of
Grifhausen. She then invited them to alight, say-
ing that, perhaps, her parent could tell them more
concerning it.
The young men were both so fascinated with this
beauty, that they would willingly have spent.some.
hours in gazing at and conversing with her; but, for
some reason or other, they obstinately refused, al-
though she pressed them to enter the cottage. After
a little more conversation she wished them good
night; and though they both intended to see her
again, neither of them mentioned a word of his in~
tion, either to her or to his companion. Indeed,
41

4

1!

I

rt


MARVELOUSUS REPOSITORY.
from that moment they became so desperately
jealous of each other, (which was the reason why
they would not stop that night, each looking upon
the other as a rival,) that they scarcely spoke all the
way l)ack to Fiendenheim; and the next day, in-
stead of summoning the troop to give the beast chase,
each rokle separately in search of the cottage, where
they met, and quarrelle(l for. the first time; and so
bitter was their enmity afterwards, that it would
have been a pleasure to either of them, to have run
the other through with a boar spear.
Meantime the wild monster committed great ra~
vag~s throughout the surrounding country, and
it became unsafe for men unarmed, and wo-
men and children, to pass from 'one village to the
ether; so that there was a general alarm spread round
about, for a great distance. The wolf-hunters
made many attempts to destroy it, but in vain; for,
though it did not keep out of the way by day, yet it
was so swift, and so artful in eluding pursuit, that
all their endeavours were fruitless. Even X~r0lf~
gang and Hendrick could gain no advantage over
their companions, except getting a little closer to
the beast than the rest. At length, the lords of three
villages, which this animal infested, fancying that
there might be some want of energy, in the attempts
to destroy it, or, perhaps, a little i'ear, offered a re-
ward of a piece of land, to the man who should pro~
dace its head, "to belong to him and his heirs for
ever," besides the privilege of choosing the fairest
maiden within their domains as a wife, to whom
they also promised a portion.
This offer produced a great commotion among the
young men of the three villages, as well as among
the maidens; all of them being willing to obtain the
reward; but upon Wolfgang and Hendrick it had
a very strong effect. Since tirst beholding the young
beauty among the rocks, they had both striven to
gain her as a wife, but, though she gave them equal
audience, she declared positively in favour of nei
42

i

THE BOARWOLF.
ther of them. But when the reward was offered for
the head of the beast, ~he said she would willingly
~i~re her hand to the hunisman who should obtain it.
Thus, besides the hope of obtaining the reward, and
the beaut~, there was the fear that another shotdd
gain her; and Wolfgang ~aid, that he would rather
the beast should tear him to pieces, than that Jiend-
rick should become possessed of her; and Hendrick
said much the same of 'Wolfgang. Nevertheless,
the monster continued his rai ages~ though all the
country was in arms against him, and it was at length
reported, that Count Albert, of Fiendenheim, was
going to invite all the knights and warriors of his
acquaintance, to come and make a grand attempt to
rid his lan(ls of such a scourge.
When it came to be known that Wolfgang and
Hendrick had quarrelled, the inhabitants of their
village were anxious to know the cause of (lisagree-
ment between such strict friends, and they soon
found it out. But when the young men of Fienden-
heim had seen the damsel, they sai(l they could find
nothing in her so enchanting, that there were many
girls in their own hamlet far superior to her; and,
in fact, that she was more disagreeable than l)leas-
Ing. On the other hand, the two huntsman had told
their sisters that there could not be a greater beauty
among women, that her countenance was delightfully
fascinating; her eyes of the most brilliant black, her
lips glowing coral, her nose finely formed, her com-
plexion radient with health, and her curling tresses
of the loveliest auburn. 'I'his, of course, tempted
many of the young women t'o make an opportunity
of seeing her, and they agreed with the young men,
that she was any thing but agreeable. They found
her features sharp and vixen-like, her eyes too small,
and glowing more like live coals than diamonds, her
nose hooked, her complexion of a j)eculiar sallow,
and hex' locks elfish, snake-like, and of a fiery red
colour. Her shape, which they had l)ecn told was
CKquisite, they thought too flimsy, and her dress was
43

4 ii
I

?


I

MARVELLOUS REPOSiTORY.
so gaudy and scanty, that they agreed she resembled
one of the lost girls who wandered about the streets
of Mentz, to tempt young men to their ruin, more
than a modest inhabitant of the district of Brocken-
cragg; and, in fine, they all agreed that she had in-
fused some philter into the wine she had given to
Wolfgang and Hendrick,~ and thereby deprived
them of the right use of their senses and understand-
ing. But, what displeased them more than any thing
else, was, that she refused to tell from whence she
came, or who her father was; nor would she listen
to any inquiries about her family, saying, that those
who liked her need not know her friends, and that
those who disliked her should not.
Wolfgang, as I have already said, was of a temper
somewhat impatient, and when he heard that Count
Albert purposed calling his friends to assist him,
fearing he should lose an opportunity of at once ac-
quiring the beauty, he mounted his horse, arid set
out on the chase, swearing he would never return
Without the head of the monster; an(I, accordingly,
he tried every art he was acquainted with, to sur-
prise it unawares, for when it was conscious of being
pursued, nobody had any chance of coming up with
it. All his address and toil, through the heat of the
day, was, however, of no avail to him. Twenty
times had he been on the point of plunging his short
sword between its ribs, and as often had it slipped
aside, and disappointed him At last, towards even-
ing, when all the rest similarly engaged, had given
up the chase, he fancied that the animal appeare(l
lame, and exhausted with fatigue. Although he was
scarcely otherwise himself, this idea (lisSipated all
his weariness, and hoping he might now run him
down, he borrowed a fresh horse from the nearest
house, and returning to where it lay, hid in its lair,
he forced it to rise, and betake itself to that same
plain over which he had first pursued it, in company
wab Hendrick. He had now no doubt that it iva~
uiaiiued, for it ran with a limping gait, and with less
44

TIlE BOA RWOLF,
speed than before. However, it managed to keep
him at too great a distance behind to wound it, and,
taking the same course it had formerly done, it led
him across the boundary stream, and amon~ those
wildly scattered crags where it had once escaped
before. But as Wolfgang had now more advantage
than at that time, both in the freshness of his horse
arid the knowledge of the roads, which he had ac-
quired by visiting, the cottage, he was able to keep
the boarivoff (for so the monster was called by th~
peasantry) in sight.
The red glare of the setting sun was now again
gleaming through the uncouth archways, and along
the narrow passes of the rocks, as the impatient
huntsman followed the brtite into the centre of the
great level. Here, entering upon a small sandy
space, scattere(i over with fragments of stone anO
dead wood, Wolfgang lost sight of the animal, foi', as
it reached the plain before him, he could not decide
the way it had taken. His temper, which had long
been giving way (luring the pursuit, now totally for-
sook him, an(l throwing himself from his horse, he
rolled upon the sand, cruising and blaspheming every-
thing that came in his mind. He lay thus employed, at
last, with his face towards the ground. when, fancy-
ing that he felt a strange gust of heat pass over him, he
turned his head, and beheld the figure of a being
somewhat human, but more resembling a devil. It
had horns, and a tail, its horns curled round its ears,
and its tail was short, and' turned up like a hook. It
was hairy all over, and its feet ended in hoofs, like
those of a hog.
Wolfgang was in~too great a rage t otremble.
"Wolfgang," said the being, "if you will give me
polver over you for four and twenty hours, you shall
cut off the head of the boarwolI~"
" I agree," said the huntsman, without stopping
one moment to consider.
"Then kiss my hand in token of obedience," said
the stranger
45

1~

ii
ii ii ~

it
ff
I
'I


MARVELLOUS REPOSITOUf.
Wolfgang kissed the hand held out to him, and
whilst he ~started back, for the touch ot'the being
burnt his lips, it vanished, saying, "chase the board
wolf to-morrow."
The huntsman now remounted his horse, and,
without allowing himself to think of what he had
done, he hastened to the cottage of the beauty, with
whom he staid conversing with till daylight, for both
she and her father treated him as though they could
not treat him too ivell.
At day-break he saddled his steed, and set off to
dislodge the boarwoif from its lurking place, impa-
tient both to make sure of the rewards, and to return
home, for, as he had vowed not to go back x~iithout
the head, so he had kept his word.
When Wolfgang reached the glen, where he ex-
pected to meet the boarwolf, he found Hendrick
there with some companions, who had risen early
that moriAng to try the powers of two large dogs,
which they had procured from a great distance.
These were blood-hounds of a fine breed, and were
now engaged by Hendrick, because all the other
dogs that had been employed in the chase of this
tuonster refused to follow it, being so terrified, that,
whenever they were put upon the scent, they howl-
ed and slunk away in fear. Wolfgang, elated with
the kindness so lately shown him by the beauty and
her father, and relying on the promise that he should
cut off the head of the boarwoif, could not refrain
from uttering a loud laugh of contempt, when he
saw the pains taken by his former friend, and his
associates. He even fid him, with a sneer, "go
home and look out for a wife, for that he meant to
marry the beauty that night himself." Hendrick
was too intent on endeavouring to get scent of the
wild beast, to, reply to these insults, and having as-
certained that it was not in the dell, he hurried over
the hills in search of it; and his rival, notivithstand
ing his security, not being willing that he should
4ti

[

THE BOA RWOLF.
first start the game, set off'to another spot, where he
once or twice had met the animal.
About an hour after this, Wolfgang unearthed the
boarwolt'. It sprung from beneath the root of an
old withered yew-tree, which grew over a low dark
cave, in the side of a bank, just as the sun rose bril-
liantly from behind some opposite hills; and when
the ferocious brute opened its *jaivs, to utter a hide-
ous roar, its long turks gleamed in the morning rays,
and the white foam spirted from its mouth like
flakes of snow, while its bristly hide seemed to glit-
ter in the light, as if throwing out sparks of fire,
The eager huntsman rushed forward after it, eyeing
with joy the ghastly grinning head, which he ex-
pected soon to sever from its huge, ill-fashioned car-
ease, and which was to form the foundation of his
fortune, and the pledge of his union with his mis-
tress. Hefo~got that Hendrick was also in the field
with his friends, and their unerring dogs; or, if he
thought of him, it was only to enjoy the anticipated
mortification of his former friend, when he returned
to the village, bearing with him the spoil for which
they both thirsted so ardently.
The boarwolf, however, as if conscious that its ex-
istence was to terminate that day, seemed resolved
to exercise the strength and perseverance of its pur-
suer. It took wider and more intricate circuits than
it had ever done before, it turned more frequently to
bay, and almost appeared to enjoy the eager onsets
which the huntsman made to overcome it; but the
horse of Wolfgang could only he brought to ride at it
by the most strenuous endeavors of its master, exhi-
biting such evident marks of dismay at its glaring
eyeballs, and erected bristles, that he could scarcely
keep its head towards it; and when he offered to
dismount, for the purpose of attacking it with his
Sword, the monster took the opportunity of making
off at full speed.
In this manner, the chase continued till long past
floo~~ by which time Wolfgang had become so faint,
47
I

41


K

TH E BOA RWOLF.

MARVELLOUS REPOSKTORI.
with hunger and exhaustion, that he could scarce!~
keep his seat; for he had been extremely fatigued
the day before, and had not closed his eyes during
"~   the night, having been too much engaged with his
mistress to think of sleep. Besides, he had scarcely
tasted food 5j~C.C the morning o.f the day before, for
he took nothing but wine at the hermitage, and this
day he would not stop one moment to assuage his
hunger at the cottages of his acquaintances~ near
which he passed, lest the boarwolf should escape, or
have time to renew his strength by rest. However,
he recollected that his mistre5~, when she heard that
he intended to renew the chase early in the morning,
had given him a small cake, which she had prepar-
ed during his stay, for she said that she was certain
his eagerness would not allow him to think of re-
freshment, and that her gift would quell his appe-
tite, and support his strength, till he had slain the
monster. Upon this he drew the loaf from his pock-
et, and ate it, with many mental thanks for the kind
attention of the giver, arid he felt his desire to
slaughter the boarwolf increase, with his Wish
to obtain the hand of so amiable a girl. As she
had said, so the cake, though small, satisfied his hun-
ger, and renewed his spirits, or, rather, made them
more buoyant than before. IndeedSO much did he
feel elated, that he spurred on his horse, as if just set
off in the pursuit~ and the monster was oblige&amp;to fly
more quickly than it had ever done. But the weath-
er, which had hithertobeen brilliant and enlivening,
nOW suddenly altered; large masses of dark clouds
rolled up from behind the distant mountains, the
wind rose, and swept along the edges of the woods
with violence; full drops of rain fell at intervals, and
the distant waters of the river were heard rushing
along their rocky bed. Wolfgang was too much ac-
customed to the field, not to know that these signs
presaged a storm; but his ardour would not permit
anyx idea of relinquishing the pursuit to enter his
mind; besides, he fanei~d these signs were but pr~

iudes to the death of the boarwoif, and he gazed at
it with exultation, as, for the third time that day, i~t
hurried through the dcli, where he and Hendrick
had first discovered it. His spirits, now high and
free from fatigue, bore him along with a feeling of
triumph, and though the wind shook the branches of
the trees over his head, and sighed in the most
threatening manner, he paid no attention to the im-
pending tempest.
At length, as he once more spurred along to the
~ rocky level, the clouds burst above him, and a deluge
of rain and hail surrounded him instantaneously; he
seemed almost as if enclosed in a moving mass of
water, and as the drops struck against the ground
they broke into a fine mist, which rose up on the
wind like a second shower, or as if the earth were
heated and being quenched by the rain, while large
hailstones flew and danced about in every direction,
causing his horse to start repeatedly~
So thick and heavy was the shower, that Wolf-
gang lost sight of the boarwolf for a short time,
though it still kept at the same distance before him.
But an unusual darkness now begar to add to the
horrors of the storm, not like the approach of night,
but a deep gloom, as if the sun were losing its light.
Thunder burst in loud peals amongst the hills, and
flashes of lightning at times shot along before him.
Yet all these combined terrors had no effect on the
mind of the huntsman; at least he laughed at them
with the feelings of a man intoxicated; for the few
mouthfuls he had taken, had produced a state of idea
almost similar to the effect caused by liquor, with-
out impeding his capability of bodily action. A
hundred times he blessed the providence of the
beauty, in providing' against his fatigue, and he
heard the swoin waters of the boundary streanTi foam
amidst the stony winding of its channel, without
one impression of fear, or suggestion of prudence.
The boarwolf chose the widest whirlpool over
which to leap, and Wolfgang sprung boldly over the
VOL. ii.  E         B4       49

ii
Ii


MARVELLOUS REPOSITORY.
boiling vortex. He heeded not the ~ibouring breath
and staggering limbs of his courser, but spurred him
violently, as he entered the district of Brokencragg.
along the path which led to the hermitage, for in
that direction the monster, proceeded before him.
The storm raged with peculiar fury in this wild
and desolate region. The wind roared hideously,
as it rushed along the numerous passages amongst
the rocks, and the summits of the tall trees, that
grew upon them, were bent below the crevices in
which their roots found nourishment. Twice did
Wolfgang escape the fall of trunks, which were torn
with harsh crashes from their beds, and many times
was he nearly struck from his saddle by pieces of
stone, broken from the margin of cliffs by the light..
ning, which now darted closely around him. But
his spirit, and his persuasion that the head of the
monster would soon become his spoil, were unabated
and unalloyed, till, just as he approached the cot-
tage of his mistress, the boarwolf uttered a tremen-
dous yell, whiTh was answered by the distant bay of
dogs. "That fiend Hendrick !" muttered Wolf.
gang, as the idea that his hated rival might rush in
between him and his reward, glanced across his
mind. He spurred on his steed, more unmercifully
than before,' and was in an instant close by the her-
mitage. The beauty, as if fearless of wild beasts, of
lightning, or of thunder, stood at the door, waving
her hand in encouragement to her lover, and he
thought she seemed to enjoy the flashes of fire that
glanced along before her; her face was bright, and
her eyes shone, her hair floated in the wind. He
heard her say, " Do you hear Hendrick?" and in a
moment was out of her sight and hearing, for, having
turned a corner, the brute led him directly
to the centre of the level. All the fury of
the storm seemed likewise to tend that way, for the
violence oC the wind, rain, and hail, behind him,
was almost intolerable. His horse rushed along, as
if boriie by a rapid stream, striving more to keep it

THE BOARWOLF.
self steady than to maintain its speed; the lightning
flasbed round every crag, and the thunder seem
ed rolling along upon the earth, and jarring at
every instant with the scattered fragments of rock.
Even ~th&amp;e he fancied tottered as he passed them,
and shook their crumbling edge~ on his head;-.tit.
tearing and grinning whispers seemed to mock his
ears, as he listened to the deep mouthing of Hend-
rick's blood-hounds; and the boarwoif growled and
tore up the earth, as it fled before him. However,
he gained upon it, and, only intent upon the accom-
plishment of his wishes, drew f6rth his short sword,
to make a desperate attack, for he perceived by its
agitation and furious howl that it would soon turn to
bay. Vie was close at its heels, as it entered upon
the sandy space in the centre of the level, and at the
instant the monster turned and offered resistance, his
horse fell dead close beside it. The boar~~ol~sprun g
upon Wolfgang, and ripped up his thigh with it~
tusk; but the huntsman, though writhing with pain,
struck a tremendous blow at its brawny neck, which
cleft the spine, and the head hung from its shoulders.
Another blow severed it completely; but at that in-
slant a dense smoke, mingled with flame, issued
from the carcass, *and the boarwoif was changed into
that fiend-like being whom he had seen in that same
place on the day before.
"Wolfgang," it exclaimed to the terrified hunter,
"thou hast cut off the head of the boarwolf; for
twenty four hours thou art mine.-Aye, and for
ever !-Be thou now a boarwolf!"
"Not now," cried Wolfgang, gasping with horror
at the thought, "Hendrick is coming, he will slay
"I mean it," replied the demon, laughing fero..
ciously, I brought him here, his dogs are mine-see
he comes!
Wolfgang turned his head and saw Hendrick
rushing towards him; he felt his figure change~, his
hands became feet, his head grew large and bristly,
51

Ii

Ii:;
~ti

1'
it~

#11i


6

MARVEtLOUS REPOSITORY.
* he sunk down towards the earth, and stood like a
four~footed brute, but bewildered and unable either
to fly or resist.
The most hitter feelings of terror and despair
overwhelmed his faculties He sprung into the air,
and attempted to scream with rage, but he only ut-
tered a harsh hoarse roar, like a boarwolf. It was
answered by Hendrick, who at that moment fixe4
his eye upon him, with a wild shout of joy; his
friends also Thouted, and the blood-houndS, giving a
tremendous yell, sprung upon him and held him
firmly with their teeth. Hendrick leaped from his
horse, and raised his sword, and while Wolfgang
vainly strove to exclaim, "Spare me, Hendrick!
spare me !" his rival and former friend smote off his
head at a blow. His spirit fled with a groan, a
dreadful clap of thunder shook the earth, a flash of
lightning enveloped the group, and scathed the
bleeding body of the huntsman; but Hendrick nev-
ertheless lifted up the head, and with his compa-
iiions gave three victorious shouts; he then thrust
the point of his spear into the neck, and, remounting
his horse, rode away from the plain with his associ-
ates, bearing before him, unconsciously, the head of
his once dearest friend.
They made their way directly to Fiendenheim,
and were received joyfully by the villagers, who ran
to inform Count Albert. rL~l~e count received the
spoil in form, admiring its ghastly look, and directed
his seneschal to make out the deed of gift, of four
acres of land, to Hendrick the wolf-slayer, to him
and his heirs forever. He then bade the unfortu-
nate huntsman choose the maiden he liked best for
his bride, and bring her to him on the following
morning, as he intended to bestow upon her a mar-
riage portion.
Hendrick, notwithstanding the fatigue he had un-
dergone since day-break, could not resist the plea-
sure of communicating his success to the beauty,
and of claimingg her promise. He therefore quitted
52

THE BOA RWOLF.     /
Fiendenheim, and took the direction ci' the Broken..
agg level, with almost as much speed as if engag~
in an~her chase. The weather was now calm
and serene, the wind had subsided, not a drop of
rain fell from the unclouded sky, and a pure and
beautiful evening had succeeded to the tempestuous
afternoon; nor would it have been suspected that
such a storm had so recently occurred, had not the
swoin streams, that rushed amongst the rocks, and
over the pathways, been unusually large, and their
loaded '~
waters turmu, anu      i~1LU fragments oiuranczz
es, and the spoils of their banks.
By the time the eager lover arrived within sight
of the cottage of his mistress, the first stars of even-
ing had appeared, and a gentle gloom had fallen on
all the surrounding objects. A calm stillness was
spread over tI~e vast desert of shattered rocks, only
interrupted by the croak of the raven, which sat
among the overhanging trees, by the shriek of the
owl, which floated forth from the recesses amongst the
cliffs. But of a sudden, as Hendrick spurred his
horse up to the door of tire hermitage, a strange
wild shout of mirth burst from within the dwelling,
composed of sounds and voices he had never heard
before. The chimney, too, smoked violently, and a
bright gleam of light shot from the casement across
the pathway, and small rays issued from beneath the
eaves, and crevices in the walls.
Impatier:t and alarmed, Hendrick, with a lovers
privilege, hastily opened the door, and entered; but
what was his amazement to flnd himself in the midst
of a comp~inyof beings of the most appalling descrip-
tion. rrhere sat in the old chair, which the beauty's
father was wontlo occupy, the same fiend who had
tempted Wolfgang to his destructionn. Before him,
in the midst of the floor, was a large fire, blazing up
to the ceiling in blue flames, mingled with green
and yellow. Around this (lanced a circle of devils,
of all figures and sizes, throwing themselves into the
most distorted attitudes, and shrieking at alternate
bs

ii
I
1~

(


MARVELLOUS REPOSITORY.
intervals. Thete lay on the floor a human carcass,
.he bead of which was concealed by a black veil,
and the old fiend had his feet placed upon it, while
his hOOfS, now lengthened into claws, penetrated the
flesh, and when the demon contracted his talons, the
body gave convulsive throes, and dashed its limbs
about, to the great diversion of the assembly.
Hendrick stood and stared aghast at this sight, for
a crowd of fears and suspicions overwhelmed his
soul. He looked around for the beauty and her fa-
ther, but in vain; till at length a tall slender fiend
'prung from the circle towards him, and seizing his
~nd in her burning grasp, drew him forward, say-
ing, "Why, Hendrick, my betrothed, do you not
know your bride?"
hendrick gazed on her, and saw in her sharpened
features, parchment skin, and glowing eyes, some
appearance of the girl who had been the sole object
of his and Wolfgang's love; but with a shuddering
start he endeavored to free himself from her gray"
She, however, held him tightly, and drawing him r~
the circle, another fiend caught him b; the hand, in
the same manner, and he was thus forced to dance
round the fire, as one of the group, whilst the demons
grinned and chattered at him, with fearful and ma-
lic~ous joy.
Although the heart of Hendrick sunk within him,
a~ the hideous figures and grimaces of his compa
nions, his senses still remained collected, and hi~
'thoughts were bent on finding some method of es
camping from this detestable spot. His love and
hopes were converted into the utmost disgust and
dread, and his eyes wandered from side to side, to
avoid the diabolical leers, and hellish mockery of the
fiend who pretended to be his bride. She, however,
seemed not to regard his hatred, but telling her crew
that he was impatient for the conch~sion of his nup~
tials, stopped opposite to the frightf~il demon who sat
in the chair-"
54

THE BOARWOLP.
"Father," said she, "this is my bridegroom, he
wishes you to unite us forever."
"Have you the ring?" said the old fiend, in a
narsh and hollow voice.
"This is the one he gave me," said the pretended
bride, heldiug forth one which Hendrick knew he
had presented to her some days before.
Is he willing to bind himself to you and yours?"
said the presiding devil of this infernal ceremony.
"You shall hear him promise," answere~J the
bride. "Speak, Hendrick, love, speak!" continued
she to the astonished huntsman, whose hair now
stood on end, and whose limbs quaked be-neath'him,
whilst the sweat stood cold upon his brow, although
the room felt like a furnace.
If' he ~vill not speak, let bun kneel and do horn-
age,"e claimed Satan.
At this the fiends on either side of the territle(1
hunter, strove to pull' him down; hut Hendrick,
aware that by that l)rostrat ion he should yield up his
soul to the powers of darkness, resisted with his ut-
*      most strength) whilst he ~'
led with the demons. groaned loudly and wrest-
"Show him then," cried the arch-demon, stamp-
ing with passion, "show him what he shall become,
unless he obeys. Let him see! let him see!-up
Wolfgang, up !" continued he, shouting hi(leously.
Upon this, the corpse that lay at the foot of the chair
started from the floor, and as the black cloth fell
from its head, 1-lendrick recognized the pale and
bloody corps of his friend Wolfgang. N'he head
was resting on the shoulders, but there was a ~leep
red gash r9und the neck as if it had been dividedd.
"Dost thou know him?" cried the fiend-bride, as
she saw her lover tremble involuntarily.
"Yes, he knows him," cried the old demon, "and
shall be like him, unless he joins in the chase." He
then vociferated, "the boarwo If! the boarwo If!" and
the body of XVolfgang was changed into the resem-
blance cf that monster, and began to run round the
55
--I'

b
Ii


I

MARVELLOUS REPOSITORY.
cottage, whilst all the imps and demons, uttering
tremendous yells, pursued it, darting fire from their
nostrils, and piercing the howling brute with their
turning claws. Hendrick's two companions en
deavour~d to pull him forward after the rest, and the
principal fiend exclaimed, "Force him! tear hini!
drag him !"-but the huntsman's feelings were
wound up to a pitch of horror, and struggling vio.
gently, be exclaimed, "God and St. Hubert protect
me !" The fiends instantly screamed, and let him
go, and he sprung through the fire, his only way to
escape, and out at the door. In an instant he was
on his horse, and in good time, for the whole legion
of devils poured out of the cottage, with the boar-
wolf at their head.
Hendrick dashed his spurs into the sides of his
beast, and fled, and the frightful crew followed, fill-
ing the air with their vociferations. At every in-
stant one or other of the demons seemed on the point
of pulling him from his horse; they snatched at him,
at his arms, at his neck, at his legs, and at his long
flying dress, that floated on the air behind him.
They called on him t~ stop; his bride offered t~
throw her arms round him, she shrieked in his ':ar~,
and blew fire from her mouth, she cursed and revil-
ed him. But the huntsrnan still fled, and called on
the saints to assist him, till reaching the boundary
stream, he leaped his horse over its rapid current,
and found himself free from his hateful persecutors.
Nevertheless, he checked not his bridle, but kept on
his way, till he reached the Village of Fiendenheim,
where he rushed in dismay up to a crowd of the in-
habitants.
The men of Fiendenheim shouted when they saw
the successful huntsman, who had ridden forth in the
anticipation of happiness, return so terrified, and the
women screamed as they gazed on the man and
horse, black with smoke, an(l dripping with perspi-
ration. "Is this the bridegroom?" cried they.
XVhere is the bride?" Hendrick, for a long time
56

DUMB PROPHETS.

could not speak; at length, after drinking a deep
and long draught, to clear his throat, he told ~what
he had seen. All the hamlet was in agitation. They
L
ran to the castle of Count Albert, and clamoured to
see the head of the boarwolf. The warder called
for torches, and led the way into an inner court; but
instead of~ the grim Visage of the rapacious monster,
they beheld the pale and withered features of Wolf-
gang the huntsman, slowly dropping gore, as it
stood on the end of a pike. Hendrick fainted, and
lay long in a trance, and.when he did recover, he
retired into the monastery of St. Hubert, where he
shortly died.
Ages have passed away since this event is said to
have occurred, and generation after generation has
sunk into the tomb, but the tradition survives, arid
the peasant of Bergstrasse, when he hears the howls
of the wolf, redoubled and prolonged by the echoes
of his mountains, starts with horror, and recollects
the fate of Wolfgang the hunter; and it is still as-
serted that, on the anniversary of the fatal night,
when he was slain, the boarwolf is seen to run yell~
ing amid the hills, pursued by the demons to whom
lie so unhappily bound himself.

DUMB PROPHETS.

IN the Isle of Man, persons born deaf and dumb
are frequently the objects of superstitious reverence,
so much so, that if a man, labouring under this mis-
fortune, walks aboard a vessel, and chalks the mast,
not a native sailor will put to sea while the spell is
sul)posed to continue. If' dumb men were always
good judges of the weather, and were always willing
to exert their skill, such a superstition might be very
useful; and, at any rate, the reader will regret that
57

i

L

ii
I;
11
K        F


MARVi~LL0US REPOSITORY.
the following affecting circumstance did not occur in
the Isle of Man.
During the prevalence of the late tremendous
gales, themasters and mates of a number of vessels,
which were laid up in a certain harbour, met, and
came to the resolution that it would be highly im-
p roper to put to sea until the weather moderated.
But, in the mean time, the price of coals had risen
considerably in the North of Ireland, and the owners
of the said vessels were naturally anxious to avail
themselves of this favourable turn in the market.
Accordingly, several captains were almost com-
pelled to put to sea; and, in particulars one poor fel-
low, who had long resisted the entreaties of his supe-
rior. T~e captain, though no coward, urged that it
would bea mere "tempting of Providence," to ven-
ture out in such tremendous weather, and that the
chances were as fifty to one, that he and all his crew
would go to the bottom. Still the owner insisted
that there was little danger, and at last offered tQ
sail the vessel himself. This argument had the de-
sired effect.
The (skipper immediately mustered a crew, ~.nd
prepared to brave all the dangers of a coasting vy-
age. The rashness of the attempt, however, r ~ttu-
rally excited a good deal of interest, and ar, the
crew dropped dowii to the quay, each with his ittle
bundle of necessaries under his arm, it was obs.?rved
that all of them were intercepted by a dumb man,
who held by their jackets, and screamed, pointed,
and gesticulated in a most extraordinary manner.
When the captain, in particular, arrived, the poor
dumb monitor appeared to be almost frantic with
grief, and clung round his body with such force, that
it required no slight effort to shake him otE And
even after the men had got on board, and were pre~
paring to get under weigh, dumby grasped the rope
that connected the vessel with the shore, and at-
tempted to oppose, by his own exertions~ the united
strength of the whole crew: and when bafll~.d in

ABBE OP CALVADOS.
his last attempt, he uttered two or three most pierce
[     ing yells, and continued counting his fingers till the
vessel was out of sight.
He then slowly withdrew, pausing at intervals to
look back on the ocean, and leaving the spectators a
good deal astonished at this unlocked for interfer-
ence on the part of a stranger, whom they h~d never
seen before, and have never heard of since.
*      The sea ran mountains high, and as the night ap-
proached, the storm raged with tenfold fury. Of
course the most serious apprehensions were enter-
tamed for the safety of the ship, and in the course
*    of a few posts, the news arrive(l that the
after being a t'ew hours at sea, had struck on a reef
*    of rocks, where the whole of the crew perished,
with the exception of one man.
This intelligtmce, which was unhappily soon con-
firmed, spread a deep gloom over the port, from
whence the vessel sailed, and the superstitious al-
leged that the dumb man wasfey, and had foretold,
by the counting of his fingers, the exact time that
the vessel would live, before being swallowed up by
the waves.
TIlE ABBE OF CALVADOS.
IN a village of Calvados, in the month of October,
1820, was burned an old man, who had retired from
business, and owned some national property. Be-
fore his death, he was desirous of receiving the sacra-
rnent, and the priest gave him absolution, on condi-
tion that he would restore some acres to the church,
*   which he I)romised to do; but death came before the
flOtarv.-...~His property, therefore, wholly descended
to bis~ son, a simple youth. On the night after his
father's funeral, the young man was awakened by a
Violent noise, accompanied with a vivid light, which
*'n a moment disappeared. Being no stranger to
fear, he shook as he lay in his bed, and tried to call
59

9

IlL

{I

a
9


I

1'

ADVENTURES
OF

MA1~V1~LI~OUS n1~P0SIT0~~Y.
ouf for help; but a cold and moist band ~losed his
lips, and completed his amazement. lie fancied
that he beheld a spectre~ covered with a long white
mantle, pass before him~ and in a sepulchral voice
uttered these words: " Badly obtained The soul of
P- must go into torments, if his son makes not
restitution." Another voice, weak and failing, con~
tinned: "JlIy son, restore the ill-gotten properlY~ or
else"-the 5~pulchra~ voice added--"' shall come
night after night to drag you by your .feet ." These
words were followed by total silence the youth slept
no more; and the next morning he went to relate to
the priest and his family the vision of the night.
The priest and some of the neighbours advised him
to give up his property; but a young kinsman, lust
conYe from school, maintained jhat the dead do not
come back again, and that the possessors of national
property are no more likely to have their feet drag-
ged by ghosts than their nei~hboiirs rrhen taking
the young heir aside, he offered to lie in the bed in
his place, if he would keep it a secret, and would
promise to wait one day more before he gave up the
property. This proposal was accepted, and the
young kinsman took possesSion of the other youth's
bed for that night. Between twelve and one o'clock,
he heard some person gently open the window, and
at the same time beheld a phantom enter, who caine
up as if to speak to him with a threatening gesture.
"So farso good;" said he, mentally, "as he in's
takes me for another persofl~ spirits are not 0mm-
scient." lie then slipped out of bed as quietly as
he could, seized the phantom with both his hands,
and threw him in a moment into a little dark closet,
which he shut and locked very carefully. The
spectre finding himself a prisoner~ began to cry eut
for mercy; but the youth went to call in his neigh
hours, who soon re6o~n1Sed, in the semblance of a
ghost, a young abbe, who, although as yet only in
deacon's orders, had been desirous to give a proof
of hi.s zeal for the church of Rome.
60

I STAin and sauntered about that island a month,
and never in my life was in such a curious country,
nor among so curious a l)eople. rfhey know all that
is to happen by reason of a singular kind of (livina-
tion called the second sight. rFlley have power
over the elements, and can stop the natural progress
of them all save the tides. rI~hey are a people by
themselves, neither Highianders nor Low landers, at
least those of Uig are, and have no communication
with the rest of the world; but with the 1)eings of an-~
other state of existence, they have frequent inter-
course. J at first laughed at their stories of hob-
goblins, and water spirits, but after witnessing a
:;cene that I am going to describe, I never disbeliev-
ed an item of any thing I heard afterwards, howev-
er far out of the course of nature it might be. I am
now ~ibout to relate a story which will not be believ-.
ed. I cannot help it. If it was any optical illusion,
let those account for it who can. I shall relate what
I saw, as nearly as I can recollect, and it was not a
scene to be easily forgotten.
On the banks of this Loch-Rog there stands a con-
siderable large village, and above that, the gentle-
man's house, who rents all the country around from
VOL. U.    F                    61

BASIL LEE,
ON ONE OF THE HEBRIDES.

OF


MARVE~LLOUS REPOSiTORY.
Lord Seaforth, and lets it off again to numberless
small tenants. Between his house and the village
there lies a straight green lane, and above the house,
on a rising ground, sta~pd a great number of tall
stones, that have been raised in some early age, and
appear at a distance like an army of tremendous
giants. One day a party of seven, from on board the
Swallow, was invited to dine with this gentleman.
We went out a shooting all the forenoon, and tow
ards evening, on our return, we found all the family
in the most dreadful alarm, on account of something
that an old maiden lady had seen, which they called
Faileas More; (the great shadow,) and which they
alleged was the herald of terrible things, and the
most dismal calamities. The villagers were like-
wise made acquainted with it, and they were run-
ning howling about in consternation.
The family consisted of an old man and his sister;
a young man and his wife, and two children: the
old man and the two ladies believed the matter
throughout, but the young man pretended with us
to laugh at it, though I could see he was deeply con~
earned at what we had heard. The vision iv~s de-
described to us in the following extraordinary man-
ner.
The Great Shadow never comes alone. The next
morning after is M'Torquille. Dhu's Visit The loss
of all the crops, and a previous death in the island,
invariably succeed to these. rrhe apparitions rise
sometimes in twelve, sometimes in three years, but
always on the appearance of an Faileas More; rfod.
hail Mac Torcill takes place next morning, between
daybreak and the rising of the sun. A dark gigan-
tie shade is seen stalking across the loch in the even-
ing, which vanishes at a certain headland; and from
that same place the next morning, at the same degree
of lightness, a whole troop of ghosts arise, and with
Mac Torcill Dhu (Black M'Torquille) at their
head, walk in procession to the standing stones, and
there hide themselves again in their ancient graves
62

BASIL LEE.
As the one part of this story remained to be prov-
ed, every one of us determined to watch, and see if'
there was any resemblance of such a thing. But
the most extraordinary circumstance attending it
was, that it could only be seen from the upper win*
dows of that house, or from the same height~ in the
air, a small space to the eastward of that; and that
from no other point on the whole island had it ever
been discovered that either~ of the visions bad been
seen.
We testified some doubts that the morning might
not prove clear, but the old mah, and the ol~ maid-
en lady, both assured us that it would be clear, as
the morning of M'Torquille's Visit never was known
to be otherwise. Some of u~ went to bed with our
clothes on, but others sat up all night, and at an
early hour we were all sitting at the windows, weary-
ing for the br'~ak of day. The morning at length
broke, and was perfectly clear and serene, as had
been predicted. Every eye was strained toward the
spot where the Great Slirzde had vanished, and at
length the young gentleman of the house said, in a
tone expressing great awe, "Yonder they are now."
I could not discern any thing for the space of a few
seconds, but at length, on looking very narrowly
toward the spot, I thought I perceived something
like a broad shadow on the shore and, on straining
my sight a little more, it really did appear as if di-
vided into small columns like the forms of men. It
did not appear like a cloud, but rather like the
shadow of a cloud; yet there was not the slightest
cloud or vapour to be seen floating in the firmament.
We lost sight of it for a very short space, and then
beheld it again coming over the heath, above the
rocks that overhung the shore, The vison was still
very indistinct, but yet it had the appearance of a
troop of warriors dressed in greenish tartans with a
tinge of red. The headland where the apparition
arose, was distant from us about half a mile,-..
they appeared to be moving remarkably slow, yet
63

4


MARVI~ILOUS ~~pOS1T0R~
notwithstandingg of' that, they were close upon us al-
most instantly. We were told that they would pass
in array immediately before the windows, along the
green lane, between US and the hack of the village;
and seeing that they actually approached in that di-
rection, Dr. Scott, a rough, rash, intrepid fellow,
propose~1 that we should fire at them. I ohjecte(l to
it. (leeming that it was a trick, and that they were
all fellow creatures; for we saw them now as dis-
tinctly as we could see any body of' men in the gray
of the morning. r1~l~e young man however, assuring
us that it was nothing human that we saw, I agreed
to the proposal; and as they passed in array jinme-
diately before the windows, we pointed a~l the 01~bt
loaded muskets directly at them, and fired on this
mysterious troop all at 0 rice: but not One of them
paused or turned round his head. They all of them
held on with the same solemn and ghostlike move-
ment, still continuing in appearanCe~ to be walking
very slow, yet some way they went Qver the gro~ind
with unaccountable celerity; and when they ap-
proached near to the group of tall obelisks, they
rushed in amongst them, and we saw no more, save
a reeling flicker of light that seemed to tremble
through the stones for a moment.
They appeared to be a troop of warriors, with
plaids and helmets, each having a broad targe on
his arm, and a long black lance in the other hand;
and they were led on by a tall figure in black ar-
mour, that walked considerably ahead of the rest.-
Some of our people protested that they saw, the bare
skulls below the helmets, with empty eye~socketS~
and the nose and lips wanting; but I saw nothing
like this. They appeared to me exactly like other
men; but the truth is, that I never saw them very
(Iistinctly, for they were but a short time near us,
and during that time, the smoke issuing from the
muskets intervene(l, and owing to the dead calm of
the morning, made us see them much worse. All
the people of the village were hid in groups within~
64

doors, and engaged in some rite which I did not wit-
ness, and cannot describe; but they took great um~
bra o'e at our audacity in firing at their unearthly
visiters, and I believe there was not one among us,
not even the regardless Dr. Scott, who was not
shocked a~ what had heen done.
[make no pretensions to account for this extraor-
dinary l)henomenon, but the singular circumstance
of its being visible only from one point, and no other,
makes it look like something that might be account-
ed for. I can well excuse any who do not believe it,
for if I had not seen it with my own eyes, I never
would have believed it. But of all things I ever l)e-
held, for wild sublimity, the march of that troop of
apparitions excelled-not a day or a night hath yet
passed over my head, on which I have iiot thought
with wonder and awe on the Visit of 31'Torqui'ie.
From that time forth, as long as I remained in
Lewis, I considered myself in the country of the ge-
nii, an(1 surrounded with spiritual beings, that were
to         in some          rm at my si(le,
ready   start up         bodily fo
whenever they bad a mind. Such influence had the
vision that I had seen over my mind, and so far was
it beyond my comureh~nsi one
on, that I grew like
half crazed about spirits, an#could think or speak
about nothing else. For a whole week I lingered
about the shores to see the mermaid; for I was as-
sured by the people, that they were very frequently
to be seen, though they confessed that the male as
often appeared as the female. They regarded her
as a kind of sea-spirit, and ominc~, in no ordinary
degree, to the boatmen and fishers, but yet they con-
fessed that she was flesh and blood, like other crea-
tures, and that she had long hair, and a face and bo-
som so beautiful, that their lan~ua~e had no words
to describe them. I was actually in love with them,
.tnd watched the creeks as anxiously as ever a lover
~id his mistress' casement; and often when I saw
the seals flouncing on the rocks at a distance, I
painted them to myself as the most delicate and
VOL. II.   F 2       B5        65

I

BASIL LEE.

I
1,

1$

ft


I

MARVELLOUS REPOSITORY.
beautiful mermaids, but on coming near them, was
always disappointed, and shocked at the ugly dog's
heads that they set up to me; so that after all, I was
obliged to give up my search after mermaids.
They told me of one that fell in love with a young
man, named Alexander M'Leod, who often met her
upon the shore, at a certain place which they showed
me, and had amorous dalliance with her; but he
soon fell sick and died, and when she came to the
shore, and could no more find him, she cried one
while, and sung another,- in the roost plaintive
strains that ever were heard. This was the popular
account; but there was an old man told me, who
heard her one evening, and watched her, from a
concealment close beside her, all the time she was
(in shore, that she made a slight humming noise,
like that made by a kid, not when it bleats out, but
when it is looking round for its dam, and bleating
with its mouth shut; and this was all the sound that
she made, or that he believed she was able to make.
I asked why he did not go to her? but he answered
in his own language, that he would not have gone to
her for all the lands of the Mackenzie.
M'Leo(l, when on his, death-bed, told his friends
of all that had passe~between them, and previously
regretted having met with her. He said, they never
met but she clasped her arms around him, and wish-
ed to take him into the sea; I)ut that it was from no
evil intent, but out of affection, thinking that he
could not live more than she, if left upon dry lana.
When asked if he loved her; he said that she was so
beautiful he could not but love her, and would have
loved her much better if she had not been so cold;
but he added, that he believed she was a wicked
creature. If the young man could imagine all this
without any foundation, people may imagine after
what they fist; for my part, I believed every word of
it, though disappointed of meeting with her
I was equally unsuccessful in my endeavours to
~see the water-horse, a monster wh' inhabited an in-
6

N

I'
4

BASIL LEE.
and lake, of whom many frightful stories were told
me; but in my next attempt at an intercourse with
the spirits that inhabit that dreary country, I had all
the success that I could desire.
I was told of an old woman who lived in a lone
shieling, at the head of an arm of the sea,, called
Loch Kios, to whom a ghost paid a vi2it every night.
I determined to see the place, and tarry a night with
the old woman, if possible. Accordir~gly, I travelled
across the country by a wild and pathless route, and
came to her hot hy at the fall of night, and going in,
I sat down, feigning to he very weary, and unable to
move farther. We did not understand a word of
each other's language, and consequently no conver~
nation, save by signs, could pass between us. I
round a miserable old shriveled creature, rather
neatly dressed for that country, but manifestly de-
ranged somewhat in her intellects.
Before I entered, I heard her singing some coro-
riach or dirge, and when I went in, I found her en-
deavouring to mend an old mantle, and singing
away in a wild unearthly croon; so intent was she
on both, that she scarcely lifted her eyes from her
work when I went towards her, and when she did,
it was not to me that she looked, but to the hole in
the roof, or to the door by which I entered. The
sight affected me very much, and in all things that
affect me I become deeply interested. I heard that
she was speaking to herself of me; for I knew the
sound of the word that meant Ew~1ishman, but it
was not with any symptoms of fear or displeasure
that she seemed to talk of me, but merely as a thing
.hat, being before her eyes, her tongue mentioned as
ny rote.
The story that prevailed of her was, that being
left a widow with an only so.a, then a child at the
breast, she nourished him; he became a man; and
the love and affection that subsisted between them
was of no ordinary nature, as might naturally be
supposed. He was an amiable and enterprising
67

II
~1
:1
11

A


i
I

I

MARVELLOUS REPI~SITORY~

young man; but going -~t to the fishing once, with
some associates to the Saints' Islands, he never re-
(iirned, and there were suSpiCiOnS that he had been
fully murdered~ by his companions, the weather
having been so mild that no accident could have
been 5u1)posed to have happened at sea. There
were besides many suspicious. circumstances attend-
ing it, but no ~roo~ could be led. However, the
woman hearing that she had lost her darling son,
and only stay on earth, set no bounds to her grief,
hut raved and prayed, and called upon his name;
conjuring him by every thing sacred to appear to
her, and tell her if he was happy, and all that had
befallen him. These continued conjurations at
length moved the dead to return. The spirit of her
son appeared to her every night, at midnight, and
m~nversed with her about the most mysterious things
--about things of life and death-the fates of king..
doms and of men; and of the world that is beyond
the grave-sb e was happy in the communion, and
abstracted from all things.in this world beside.
Such was the unearthly tale that was told in the
country of this rueful old creature, and made me re~
solve to visit her before I left the island; but I could
not procure a man in all the district of Uig to ac-
company me that could speak both languages; for,
except the minister ~nd his wife and one taxman
and his family, there was not one in the district,
which contained 3000 inhabitants, that could speak
the English language, or were book-learned. I pro~
cured a young lad to be my guide, named Malcolm
Morison, but he having gathered something of my
intentions before we left the banks '~f Loch Rog,
would, on no consideration, accompany me into the
cot, but left me as soon as we came in sight of it. I
no sooner beheld the object of my curiosity, than I
thought her c ra~y, and that the story might have
arisen from her ravings. Still she was an interest-
ing object to contemplate; and resolving ~o do so for
the night, I tried by signs to make her understand that
6S

~~as a traveller fatigued with walking, and wished
to repose myself in her cottage until ne~ct morning;
but she regarded me no more than she would have
done a strayed cat or dog, that had coi~ie in to take
shelter with her. There was one sentence which
she often repeated, which I afterwards understood
to be of the following import: "God shield the poor
weary Saxon;" but I do not know how to spell it in
Earse. I could likewise perceive, that for all the
intentness with which she was mending the mantle,
she was coming no speed, but was wasting the cloth,
endeavouring to shape a piece suiting to the rent,
which she was still making rather worse than better.
It was quite visible that either she had no mind, or
that it was engaged in something widely different
from that at which her hands were employed.
She did not offer me any victuals, nor did she take
any herself, but sat shaping and sewing, and always
between hands singing slow melancholy airs, hav-
ing all the wildness of the native airs of that wild
and primitive people. Those that she crooned were
of a solemn and mourn f~il cast, and seemed to affect
her at times very deeply.
Night came on, and still she gave herself no con-
cern at all about me. She made no signs to me
either to lie down and rest in the only couch the
hovel contained, or to remain, or to go away. The
fire sent forth a good (leal of smoke, but neither light
nor heat; at length, with much delay and fumbling,
she put some white shreds of moss into a cruise of
oil, and kindled it. 'I'his threw a feeble ray of light
through the smoke, not much stronger than the
light of a glow worm, making darkness scarcely visi-
ble, if I may use the expression.
Th~ woman, who was seated on a dry sod at the
side of the fire, not more than a foot from the ground,
crossed her arms upon her knees, and laying hem
head on them, fell fast asleep. I wrapt myself in
my officer'~ cloak, and threw myself down on the
moss couch, laying myself in such a position that I
69

BASIL LEE.

Ii'

1'


A

MARV~LL0US REPOSITORY.
could watch all her motions as well as 'looks About
eleven o'clock she awoke, and sat for some time
moaning like one about to expire; she then kneeled
on the sod seat, and muttered some words, waving
her withered arms, and stretching them upward,
apparently performing some rite, either of necro-~
mancy or devotion, which she concluded by utter~
ing three or four feeble howls.
When she was again seated I watched her fea~
tures and looks, and certainly never before saw any
thing more unearthly. The haggard wildness of
her features; the anxious and fearful way in which
she looked ab'mt and about, as if looking for one
that she missed away, made such an impression on
me, that my hairs stood all on end, a feeling that I
never experienced before, for I had always been
proof against superstitious terrors. But here I could
not get the better of them, and wished myself any
where else. The dim lamp, shining amidst smoke
and darkness, made her features appear as if they
had been a dull yellow, and she was altogether rath~
er like a ghastly shade bf something that had once
been mortal, than any thing connected with hu-
manity~
It was apl)arent from her looks that she expected
some one to visit her, and I became firmly persua&amp;
ed that I should see a ghost, and hear one speak. I
was not afraid of any individual of my own species;
for, though I had taken good care to conceal them
from her for fear of creating alarm, I had two loaded
pistols and a short sword under my cloak; and as no
one could enter without passing my couch by a very
narrow entrance, I was sure to distinguish who or
what it was
I had quitted keeping my eyes upon the woman,
and was watching the door, from which I thought I
could distinguish voices- I watched still more in.
tensely; but hearing that the sounds came from the
other side, I moved my head slowly round, and saw,
apparently, the corpse of her son sitting directly op-
70

BlASIL LEE.

posite to her. The figure was dressed in dead..
clothes; that is, it was wrapt in a coarse white sheet,
and had a napkin of the same colour round its head.
This was raised up on the brow, as if thrust up re~
gently with the hand, discovering the pale steadfast
features, that neither moved eyelid nor lip, though it
spoke in an audible voice again and again. The face
was not only pale, but there was a clear glazed white~
ness upon it, on which the rays of the lamp falling,
showed a sight that could not be looked on without
horror. The winding sheet fell likewise aside, at
the knee, and I saw the bare feet and legs of the
same bleached hue. The old woman's arms were
stretched out towards the figure, and her face thrown
upwards, the features, meanwhile, distorted as with
ecstatic agony. My senses now became so bewil..
dered, that I fell into a stupor, like a trance, without
p     being able to move either hand or foot. I know not
how long the apparition staid; for the next thing
that I remember was being reluctantly awakened
from my trance by a feeble cry, which I heard
through my slumber repeated several times. I look..
ed, and saw that the old miserable creature had fall-
en on her face, and was grasping, in feeble convul..
sions the seat where the figure of her dead son had
so lately reclined. My compassion overcame my
terror; for she seemed on the last verge of life, or rath
er sliding helplessly from time's slippery precipice,
after the thread of existence, by which she
hurnr.
bad given way. I lifted her up, and found that a I
her sufferings were over-the joints were grown
supple, and the cold damps of death had settled on
her hands and brow. I carried her to the bed from
which I had risen, and could scarcely believe that I
carried a human body-it being not much heavier
than a suit of clothes. After I had laid her down, I
brought the lamp near, to see if there was any hope
of renovation...she was liVing, but that was all, and,
with a resigned, though ghastly smile, and a shak
Ing of the head, she expired.
71

I'
1'


BASIL LEE.

MARVELLOUS REPOSITORY.
I did not know what to do; for the night was dark
as pitch; and I w'ist not where to fly, knowing the
cot to be surrounded by precipitous shores, torrents,
and winding bays of the sea; therefore, all chance of
escape until daylight was utterly impossible; so I re-
solved to trim the lamp, and keep my place, hoping
it would not be long till day.
I suppose that I sat about an hour in this dismal
place, without moving or changing my attitude, with
my brow leaning upon both my hands, and my eyes
shut, when 1 w~s aroused by hearing a rustling in
the bed where .the body lay. On looking round,
I perceived with horror, that the corpse was sitting
upright in the bed, shaking its head as it did in the
agonies of death, and stretching out its hands
towards the hearth. I thought the woman had been
vivified, and looked steadily at th~ face, but I saw
that it was the face of a corpse still, for the eye was
white, being turned upward, and fixed in the socket.
the mouth was open, and all the other features im-
moveably fixed forever. Seeing that it continued
the same motion, I~lifted the lamp and looked fear~
fully round, and there beheld the figure I had so re~
cently seen, sitting on the same seat, in the same at~
titude, only having its face turned toward the bed.
I could stand this no longer, but fled, stumbling
out at the door, and ran straight forward. I soon
found myself by the sea, and it being ebb tide, I fled
along the shore, like a deer pursued by the hounds.
It was not long till the beach terminated, and I came
to an abrupt precipice washed by the sea. I climbed
over a ridge on my hands and knees, and found that
I was on~ a rocky point between two narrow friths,
and farther progress impracticable.
I had now no choice left me; so, wrapping myself
in my cloak, I threw me down in a bush of heath,
below an overhanging cliff, and gave up my whole
mind to amazement at what I had witnessed. As~
ton ished as I was, nature yielded to fatigue, and I
fell into a sound sleep, from which I did not awake
72

V

till about the rising of the sun. The scene al4
around me was frightfully wild a~nd rugged,~and I
scarce could persuade myself that I was awake,
thinking that I was still struggling with a dreadful
dream. One would think this was a matter easily
settled, but I remember well, it was not so with me,
that morning. I pulled heath, cut some parts of it
off; and chewed them in my mouth;-rose,-----walked
about, and threw stones into the sea, and still had
strong suspicions that I was in a dream.-The ad..
venturesofthe preceding night dawned on myre-
collection one by one, but these I regarded all as a
dream for certain; and it may well be deemed not a
little extraordinary, that to this day, if my oath
were taken, I declare I could not tell whether I saw
these things in a dream, or in reality. My own be
lief leaned to, the former, but every circumstance
rather tended to confirm the latter; else, how came I
to be in the place where I was.
I scrambled up among the rocks to the westward
and at length came to a small footpath, which led
from the head of one bay to the other; and following
that, it soon brought me to a straggling hamlet, call-
ed, I think, Battaline. Here I found a man that
had been a soldier, and had a little broken English,
*    and, by his help, I raised the inhabitants of the vil-
lage; and getting into a fishing boat, we were soon
at the cottage. There we found the body lying
stretched, cold and stiff, exactly in the very place
and the very position in which [laid it at first on the
bed. The house was searched, and, previous to re-
late, there was no article either of meat, drink, or
clothing in it, save the old mantle which I found her
mending the evening beibre. It appeared to me on
reflection, that it had been a settled matter between
her and the spirit, that she was to yield up her frail
life that night, and join his company; and that I had
fc~und her preparing for her change.-The cloak she
had meant for her winding.sheet, having nothing
else; and by her little hymns and orgies she had
YoL. xi.   G                  73

[
ill

C

J
d


MARVELLOUS REPOS1TOR~.
been endeavouring to prepare her soul for the com~
pany among whom she knew she was so soon to be.
Phere was a tTht of spiritual sublimity in the whole
matter.
I have related this story exactly as I remember it.
It is possible that the whole might have been a
dream, anfi that I had walked off in my sleep; for I
have sometimes been subjected to such vagaries, and
have played wonderful pranks in my sleep: but I
think the circumstance of the corpse being found in
the very way in which I had laid it, or, at least sup-
posed I had* laid it, confirms it almost beyond a
doubt, that I had looked upon the whole with my
natural eyes. Or, perhaps, part of it may have been
real, and part of it a dream, for the whole, from the
first, was so like a vision to me, that I can affirm no-
thing anent it.

A MIRACLE MONGER.

A rRIEST, in extreme poverty, resolved to get
credit for a miracle. He put the yolks of several
eggs into a hollow cane, and stopped the end with
butter; then walking into an ale house, he begged
to fry a single egg for his dinner; the smallness of
his r.epast excited curiosity, and they gave hun a
morsel of lard; he stirred the lard with his cane, and
to the wonder of the surrounding peasants, produce'
ed a handsome omelet. This miracle established
his fame. He sold amulets, and grew rich by 1~i
ingenuity

II

JEFFERY HUDSON.

JEFFEeY JTJtJDSON, the famous English dwarf, who
contributed to the arnuseme~nts of the court of
Charles IL, was born at Oakham, in Rutlandshjre,
in the year 1619. When about the age of seven or
eight, being then but eighteen inches high, he wa~
retained in the service of the Duke of Buckingham,
who resi(led at Burleigh on the Hill. Soon after the
marriage of Charles It., the king arid queen being
entertained at Burleigh, little Jeffery was served
up to table in a cold pie, and presented by the
duchess to the queen, who kept him as her dwarf.
From sex-ei~ years of age till thirty, he never grew
taller; but after thirty, he shot up to three feet nine
inches, and there fixed. Jeffery took a considera-
Me part in the eM ertainments of the court. Sir
William Davenant wrote a poem, called "JeftVei-
dos," on a battle between him and a turkey-cock;
and in 1633 was published a very small book, called
"The New Year's Gift," presented at court, from
the lady Perceval to the Lord Minimus (commonly
called little Jeffery,) her majesty's servant, &amp;e
written by Mierophilus; with a little print of Jeth~-
ry prefixed. Before this period Jeffery was employ-
ed ifi a negotiation of great importance: he was
sent to France to fetch a midwife for the queen; and
on his return with this gentlewoman, and her majes-
ty's dancing-master, and many rich presents to the
queen, from her mother, Mary (IC Medicis, he was
taken by the Dunkirkers. Jeffery, thus made of
Consequence, grew to think himself really so. He
had borne with little temper the teaming otthe cour-
tiers and domestics, and had many squabbles with
the king's gigantic porter. At last, being I)rovOked

I:

$1 fj
I,


I,

MARVELLOUS REPOSITORY.
by Mr. Crofts, a young gentleman of family, a chat-
lenge ensued; and Mr. Crofts coming to the rendez
vous, armed only with a squirt, the little creature
was so enraged, that a real duel ensued, and the ap-
pointment being on a level, Jeffery, with the first
fire, shot his antagonist dead. This happened in
France, whither he had attended his mistress in the
troubles. He was again taken prisoner by a Turk-
ish rover, and sold into Barbary. He 1)rol)ably did
not remain long in slavery; for, at the beginning of
the civil war, he was made a captain in the royal
army, and in 1644 attended the ,queen to France,
where he remained till the restoration. At last, up-
on suspicion of his being privy to the popish plot, he
was taken up in 1682, and confined in the Gate-
house, ~Westminster, where he ended his life, in the
~sixty4hird year of his age.

SUPI~RNATIJRAL WARNJNG.

1 rn~ age. of superstition is past, and there are
few, except in the lower ranks of society, who will
now give credit to improbable tales, however well
they may be persuaded of the respectabilitY of their
source, unless they have the means of being ac~
quainted with their truth and authenticity. Super-
stition, however, has still her votaries; and in spite
of the enlightened and civilized state of society, at
the present time, there are few who will not feel
some interest at the recital of a story, in which any
thing connected with supernatural agency is intro-
duced, and more particularly so, when that story is,
in the most remote manner, founded on fact. ~1'be
tale I am now about to narrate deviates but verr
slightly from one which has been well authenhicate~
and at the time when it was fresh upon our memory,
was almost universally believed.
76

SUPERNATURAL WARNING.

a
3

*   -A.

I'
( ~

A young gentleman, by the name of C-., was,
some years ago, residing with a clergyman isi the
north of England, for the purpose of completing his
education. He was heir to a large fortune, particu-
larly amiahh~, of a lively disposition, gay in his man-
ners, and entirely free from any taint of supersti-
tious belief. He was strong and healthy, and very
unlikely, in any manner, to give credit to the work-
ings of his imagination, or to believein dreams. I
mention this, because there are some people whose
weak state of health, or whose melancholy disposi-
tion might make them more liable to be exposed to
the impression. produced by any sudden alarm, or
any unusual agitation. One morning, however, at
breakfast, his haggard and pale looks, and his
thoughtful manner, attracted the attention of his
friends, who were accustomed to se~ him animated
*   and healthy, and upon their pressing~hiin to account
for this sudden alteration, he confessed that he had,
during the night, had a dream, which had riiade so
strong an impression upon him, that he could not
drive it from his thoughts. He said, that he had
seen a young woman enter his room softly, with a
light in one hand, and a knife in the other;.that she
made several attempts to stab him, but upon his re-
sistance, she had disappeared. He then described
her person and dress, both of which, he said, were
so deeply impressed upon his memory, that they
never could he effiiced.
His friends treated the matter lightly, and endea-
voured to ridicule him for giving so much CrC(Iit to
a dream; and Mr. C himn~elf. as if ashamed of
his weakness, tried to banish it from his thoughts.
Several months passed away, and he resumed his
usual gaiety of manner; every thing appeared for-
gotten; and when his dream intruded itself upon his
recollection, he laughed at himself for having ever
v     thought of such a trifle.
Years had elapsed, and Mr. C- -, having come
into possession of a large property, proposed to an
Yoi~.u.   G2                  77

I f


U

I;

s

THE GHOST.

MARVELOUS REPOSITORY
intimate friend to visit the Continent. They left
England together; and after having travelled
through most of the countries in Europe, were re~
turning home, in the autumn of-. A long and
tedious day's journey, brought them, very late one
evening, to a retired village on the borders of Hun-
gary; there was but one inn in the place, and that,
from its appearance, did not promise them very coxn
portable accommodation. However, they had no
choice; it was too late to proceed, and they alighted.
There was nothing remarkable in their reception,
they were proceeding to the apartment which
was allotted to them, when Mr. C- suddenly stop-
ped short, and uttered a scream of horror; his
friend ran to his assistance, surprised at an
emotion for which he could not account, but Mr.
C-, having closed the dooi', immediately re-
lated the circumstances of the dream which had
made so much impression upon him, some years
before, adding, at the same time, that the female
servant, who had lighted them up stairs, was the
same person, both in face, appearance, and dress,
who had appeared to him in his vision. The sud-
den and unexpected recollection of a circumstance,
which had been so long forgotten, could not fail to
agitate Mr. C- exceedingly; but as there was no-
thing suspicious in the manners of the inhabitants
of the inn, the friends retired to rest, having first
taken care to fasten the door, and place their pistols
near them.
Overcome by the fatigue of travelling, they were
soon both asleep; but Mr. C-, awaking suddenly,
beheld, to his extreme horror, the same woman,
standing over him, with a light in one hand, and a
knife in the other, having the blade directed toward~
his breast, apparently about to strike. In his agony
of horror, he uttered a scream, which awoke his
friend, who springing from his bed, was just in time
tocatchherarm~ * # I *
78

THE Marquis Valtenville, a gentleman residing
in a town of Picardy in France, sent his son, who
had just completed his twenty-first year, to pass a
few months in Paris, and learn the manners of the
Court. This young man was alreadjT an ensign in
the army, and his most intimate friend was a youth
of about his own age, named Montrieul, between
whom and himself there was so extraordinary a re-
semblance of person, which was considerably height-
ened by their dresses, as brother officers, being al-
nays the same, that they wee frequently taken for
each other.
The young Valtenville had been only a month in
Paris when he was suddenly taken ill, and (lied.
his abode had been at a tavern ; and his corpse was
laid forth on the bed in which he had been accustom-
ed to sleep.
In the evening, after his deceased, a couple of Ger-
man gentlemen, who were in the habit of frequent-
ing the house, arrived about the hour of 'going to
bed, and asked for lodging. The landlady replied,
that she was extremely sorry to inform them, that
she had at that time, but one chamber unoccupied,
and that in it there was only one bed.
It was already very late; and the Germans an-
swered~ that rather than go to another house, they
would, for that one night, (and their stay would be
no longer,) put up with such accommodation as she
could give them.
This arrangement being made, one of the Ger-
mans, who was fatigued with travelling, inimedi-
ately went to bed, the other remained below, chat-
ting with his landlady's daughter: at length, being
79

If,
I f;i~


MA1~VELLOU5 REPOSiTORY.
inclined to retire to rest, he took his candle and
went up stairs; for he was, in his own opinion, so
well acquainte~l with the house, by having very fre-
quently visited I~, that he did not require the assist
ance of a chamber maid, to poiut out his chamber to
him. His knowledge, however, was not quite so
correct as he believed it; for, instead of entering the
chamber where his friend slept, he turned into that
which contained the body of young Yaltenvifle; un-
dre~sed himself and went to bed. It was scarcely
day when the German was awakened by a noise in
his chamber, which was caused by the entrance of a
servant of the house, who was introducing a carpen-
ter, for th&amp; purpose of i~nea~uring the (leceased for
his coffin. The German started up in his bed at the
sqund; and the carpenter and servant, not doubting
that the dead man was come to life, ran screaming
down stairs with all The precipitancy they were
able.
r1~he German now turning round his eyes, beheld
what kind of a companion he had gdt, and jumping
out of bed, went into his friend's chamber and begf
ged to take part of his bed. "If you are resolute in
getting into it," replied his friend, "I shall get out;
do you think I'll sleep with abed-fellow who has
been lying with a corpse? It has been a very warm
night; I'll takea turn in the gallery to cool myself,
and then put on my clothes.
Into the gallery, accordingly he sallied; and loud
shrieks saluted his ears on every side. With the
- cause of them he' was unacquainted; but the fact
was this; some of the other servants who were pos-
sessed of more courage than she who had been the
conductress of the carpenter to the dead man's cham-
ber, having heard of their alarm, were coming up to
satisfy themselves of the truth of what they heard
reported, and seeing a man walking along the gal-
lery in his shirt, entertained no doubt of its being
young Valtenville himself, and ran away from the
sight as speedily as their companions had done.
80

THE GHOST.

A few hours after, the two Germans breakfasted
and departedd.
The banker, on whom the Marquis ofValtenville,
had given his son letters of credit, was a gentleman
who had once been his neighbour in Picardy, and to
whom young Valtenville had been well known; his
name was Dubois.
Montrieul, ignorant of all that had passed at the
inn, having arranged matters for his friend's funeral,
took his pocket-book, which he found in his trunk,
and went to settle his account with Mr. Duhois, in
order that he might remit it to his father. On en-
tering the house, he informed the banker what was
the occasion of his calling upon him; and Mr. Dii-
hois, putting on his spectacles, in order to gain a
better view of his person, said, "Ah, young man,
you are playing me a trick. The son of the Marquis
of Valtenville dead! No, no! you are his son your-
self; I know your person ~vell."
"Indeed, sir, it is as 1 inform you," replied Mon-
trienl, "I am only his friend; but we have always
been reckoned very much alike."
The banker still continued his laugh. "Your fa-
ther was always fond of a joke," he said, "and you
inherit his propensity. Will you drink a glass of
wine to your father's health?"
"No, thank you, sir," replied Montricul. "As
you insist on my being Valtenville, I am undoubt~.
edly a dead man; I never heard of a dead man drink~-
Ang wine, and therefore, I am compelled to refuse
your invItation."
The hanker, however, could not be argued out of
his opinion. rI~hey settled their business; and Mon~
trieu.i departed. No sooner was he gone, than Ma.
dame Dubois, bursting in to the room to her husband,
exclaimed, "XWhy, my dear, I am terrified out of my
senses; you have had a visit from a ghost."
"A ghost !" echoed her husband.
"Yes, indeed," she returned. " I forgot to tell
youthatlheard the son of the MarquisofValten-
116

b

K
ji


MOUNTAIN DOCTOR.

MARVELLOUS REPOSITORY.

yule was dead. Oh, yes, it was his ghost that was
here just now, you may depend upon it; and I'll not
lure in a house, that a ghost has entered, another
day."
Madame Dubois, was, according to the old saying,
"~the grey mare;" and she insisted on her husband
going directly to the inn where the young man bad
lodged, to inquire whether he xVere really dead or
not.
Away went Mr. Dubois to the inn, and begged to
speak with the landlady. " Pray, Ma'am," said he,
"does a young gentleman, named Valtenville, lodge
in your house?"
He did lodge here, Sir," she answered, "but he
is dead and buried."
"Very extraordinary this," exclaimed Mr. Du-
bois.
"Yes, sir, it is extraordinary, indeed, if you knew
all," rejoined the landlady. "When he was going
to be measured for his coffin, he jumped up in his
bed, and frightened my servant and the carpenter
out of their senses; an~ after that, he was seen by
some more of my family, walking about the gallery;
and I intend to quit u~iy house directly on the ac-
count."
Mr. Dubois returned horne~ arid threw himself.
with a sigh, into his arm chair. " I was right, I per~
ecieve," cried his wife, "it was a ghost."
The banker could do no otherwise than confess all
he had heard at the tavern. And, in less than a
week, Mr. Dubois and the landlady, had both
changed abodes; and their former houses were not
only without tenants, but the terror of the neighbour-
hood iii which they stood; and thus they continued
for ten years; for it had so chanced, that military
duty had called Montricul away from Paris, on the
very day of his friend's funeral: ten years he was
absent from Ihe city, and the story of the ghost was
not elucidated till his return.

THE MOUNTAIN DOCTOR.

A WEALTHY farmer, much affected with hypochon~
dna, came, to Lan genau, to consult Michael Scup..
pach, letter known by the appellation of the moun~
tam doctor. " I have seven devils in my belly,"
said he, "no fewer than seven." "There are more
than seven," replied the doctor, with the utmost
gravity; "if you count them right you will find
eight." After questioning the patient concerning
his case, he promised to cure him in eight days, dur-
ing which time, he would every morning rid him of
one of his troublesome inmates, at the rate of one
louis d'or each. " But," added he, " as the last will
be more obstinate and difficult to expel than the
others, I shall expect two lois d'ors for him. The
farmer agreed to these terms: the bargain was
struck, and the doctor, impressing upon all present
the necessity of secrecy, promised to give the nine
louis d'ors to the poor of the parish Next morning,
the imaginary demoniac was brought to him, an~d
placed near a kind of machine, which he had never
seen before, by which means he received an electric
shock The farmer roared out lustily. "There
goes one !" ~said the doctor, with the utmost gravity.
Next day the same operation was repeat : e
farmer bellowed as before, and the doctor coolly re~
marked, "Another is off!" In this manner he pro-
ceeded to the seventh. When he was preparing to
attack the last, Sciippach reminded his patient that
he. now had need of all his courage, for this was the
captain of the gang, who would make a more obsti~
nate resistance than any of the others. The shock
was at this time so strong, as to extend the demoniac
on the floor. "Now they are all gone!" said the
doctor, and ordered the farmer to be l)ut to bed. On
recovering himself, the latter declared he was com-
pletely cured; he paid the nine, louis d'ors with
83

I,

I,

If
Ii
ii
ft

n
res

i


I

MARVEL1oUS REPOSITORY.

abundance of thanks, and returned in the best spii~
to the village.prtc
Creditable witnesses attest this extraordinary cure,
which proves the acuteness of the doctor, as well as
the truth of Solomon's proverb, that with a fool we
must sometimes talk like a fool.

SINGULAR WILL.

AxN inhabitant of Montgaillard, lately deceased,
left the following testament:-"It is my will that
any one of my relations who shall presume to shed
tears at my funeral shall be disinherited; he, on the
other hand, who laughs most heartily, shall be sole
heir. I order, that neither the church nor my house
shall be'hung with black cloth; but that, on the day
of my burial, the house and church shall'be decorat-.
ed with flowers and green boughs. Instead of the
tolling of bells, I will have drums, fiddles, and fifes.
All the musicians of Montgaillard and its environs
shall attend the funeral. Fifty of them shall open
the procession with hunting tunes, waltzes, and min-.
uets." This will create the more surprise, as the
deceased had always been denominated by his fami-
ly, the Misanthrope, on a'ecount of his gloomy and
reserved character.
84

I
F

(I

B OT TLE I MP.

A GERMAN LEGEND.
IT was a lovely Itahian- evening, when a young
German merchant, named Richard, entered Venice,
the widely celebrated seat of traffic and commerce.
In consequence of its being then the period of the the-
ty years war, all Germany was, at that time, a scene
of dissension; no wonder, therefore, if the young mer-
chant, who was a gallant, more inclined to banquet-
in. g and luxurious indulgence, than feats of chivalry,
was not greatly displeased at his affairs calling him
for some time towards Italy, where things wore a
less hostile appearance, and where too, he had heard
that there was no lack, either of the richest wines,
or the most delicious fruits.
In this fascinating city, Richard entered upon a
career of dissipation, and continued daily to indulge
in revels, and in the society of mirthful faces. In
all the company of brave gallants, with whom he
constantly associated, there was but one countenance
overcast with gloom. It was that of a Spanish cap-
tam, who, though he never failed to be present at
these scenes of riot, rarely bestowed a word upon the
company, while his dark features were rendered still
more gloomy, by the visible uneasiness that sat upon
them. Still his presence was endured, as he was a
man of rank and wealth, and one too, who regarded
lightly the expense of treating his friends evening
after evening.
VOL. II.   H                  85

I


ki

MARVELLOUS REPOSITORY.
* Richard, in the mean while, found his finances
rapidly decreasing; and reflected with no small sor-
row, that this gay and joyous kind of life must quick-
ly terminate. His associates were not slow in o'b-
serving his melancholy, or in divining the cause of
it,-this being, by no means, the first instance of the
kind, that had occurred within their society,-nei-
ther did they spare their taunts upon the occasion,
so 'that our gallant was fain to venture among them,
the last precious relics of his purse. At this
prosperous period of his history, the Spaniard
called him, one evening, aside, and, with unexpect-
ed courtesy, requesting that he would accompany
him abroad, conducted him to a lone and retired
spot. rrhe poor yotith was, at first, rather alarmed;
but, at length, some what quieted his apprehensions
by reflecting, that his companion well knew that he
had little about him worth aught, save his skin, and
in that he was determined a hole should not be
pricked without returning the compliment.
The Spaniard, however, having first seated hjm-
self on the ruins of an old building, and compel led
his companion to do the same, addressed him as fol
lows:
"I cannot help imagining, my dear young friend,
that you stand greatly in need of that which has
long become a burden to myself-namely, the pow-
er of procuring whatever sum of money you choose,
and whenever you please. This pQ~wer, such as it
is, I am willing to dispose of to you for a trifling
consideration, besides some other advantages into
the bargain."
"What occasion," inquired Richard, "can you
possibly have for money, if you wish to part with
the power of obtaining it yourself?"
"The case stands thus," returned the captain.
"I know not, whether you are acquainted with cer-
tain little spirits, that are called 1~ottle-imps-they
are small black devils, enclosed in a little phia I.
Whoever possesses one of these, can command from
86'

THE BOTTLE-IMP.

it whatever worldly possession he desires most, es-
peci ally abundance of gold. In return for these ser-
vices, the soul of the person who possesses the imp
becomes forfeit to Lucifer, in case he die without
having previously disposed of him. ~But this can be
done only by receiving a less sum than that which
he first paid for the spirit. Mine cost me ten ducats;
-for nine it is yours."
While the youth was reflecting on this extraoKrdi-
nary offer, the Spaniard contijiurd, "I could, if I
pleased, easily get rid of the thing, by palimng it up-
on some one as a mere curiosity, in which manner a
knavish fellow inveigled me to purcha~ it. But I
wish not to have the weight of such an ill deed upon
my conscience, and 'therefore, very ho~icsLly, and
fairly, acquaint you with the bargain. 'iT&amp;u.m are still
young and high-spirited, and will not fail to meet
with opportunities enough of disposing of your put'-
chase, whenever you may becon~e as weary of it, as
I am even now."
"My noble Sir," replied Richard, "an you would
not take it ill at my hands, so could I inform you,
how often I have been imposed upon already) irLthiS
good city of Venice."
"Why thou foolish varlet," exclaimed tbe enrao
ed Spaniard, "thou neediest not call to mniad the
brave entertainment I gave last evening, to judge
whether I would cheat thee for the sake of a paltry
nine ducats."
"Who spends much, wants much," gently observ-
ed the young merchant, "and the longest purse we
kn~w has a bottom, although not a golden one. If,
therefore, you yesterday spent your last ducat, to-
day you may be hankering after mine."
"Excuse me if I do not chastise thee with a cold
steel for this insolence :-that I do not do it, is be-
cause I still hope that you will rid me of my bottle-de-
vil. Besides, it is my intention to perform penance,
which would only be rendered still heavier there-
by."
37

I'
'111


MARVELLOUS REPOSITORY.

"Might we no~at least, be favoured with some
specimen of the things ability
merchant.                 es?" inquired the wary
"Hd\v may that be ?" answered the other. "It
will neither remain with any one, nor aid any one,
save him who has fairly purchased and paid for it."
The youth could not help feeling some alarm, for
the place where they were sitting, seemed a parti-
cularly lone and gloomy spot,-although the Span
iar(1 assured him, hat he would not employ compul-
sive means. Yet, in spite of his fears, his irnagina-
tion dwelt upon the enjoyments that would be in his
power, should he become possessor of the little spirit;
he determined, therefore, to try whether he could
obtain the bargain at a cheaper rate.
" Witless fellow that thou art," exelainied the
Spaniard with a laugh, "It is for thy sake, and for
the sake of those who shall come after thee, that I
demand the highest sum I can; that I may delay, as
long as possible, the time when it shall he purchased
for the smallest coin possible, and the purchaser
thereby become inevitably forfeit to the (levil, even
because he cannot sell it again at a lower price."
"Well," said Richard, with a tone of delight,
"let me but have it. I warrant me I shall not be
very eager to get quit of my purchase in a hurry. If,
therefore, I could have it for fiye ducats
'~ It is all one to me," returned the Spaniard,
"but remember you' are hastening on the minute
when the evil spirit shall claim, the last unhappy
possessor as his own."
With these words he delivered up to his co~~~an-
ion, in retui~n for his gold, a small glass phial, where-
in Richard could just discern, by the light of the
stars, something dark that kept gaping up and
down.
By way of making an experiment he demanded,
although but mentally, to have double the amount
of the sum he had just expended, in his right hand,
when he instantly felt ten ducats there. He now
s8

1'

T H E OT T LE-IM P.

returned in glee to the tavern, and ihe rest of the
company, who were still carousing there, were not
a little astonished at perceiving what cheerful coun
tenances were now worn by those, wlfo were lately
in so niciancholy a mood. But the Spaniard quick-
ly retired without awaiting the costly banquet which,
late as it was, Richard had ordered to be prepared,
having first satisfied the demands of the wary host
beforehand, for his pockets were now well lined with
brave new ducats, which flocked thither merely at
his wishing.
Those who are most anxious for a similar bargain,
will test imagine what kind of a life our wild gallant
now lcd:-unless, indeed, they should be devoted to
mere sordid avarice. Even the most charitable,
may well suppose that he spent not his days or
'nights in abstinence and fasting.
The infatuated youth regarded even the poten-
tates and princes of the world with a disdainfulcom-
passion; convinced that not one of them was able to
indulge in such a luxurious life as himself. Even
Venice, the most opulent mart in the world; coub&amp;l
hardly find dainties enough for his extravagant ban-
quets. Did a well meaning friend hint at the im-
prudence of this continual rioting, he would indig-
nantly reply: "Richard is my name, and my rich-
es are boundless." Often would he, in a fit of in-
temperate mirth, rudely jest ~t the folly of the Span-
iard, who had cast such a prize from him, and, as he
had heard it reported, had retired into a convent.
On this earth, however, there is nothing that lasts
for ever. This too our gallant soon experienced to
be truth, much sooner, indeed, than he would other-
wise have done, in conse q~uence of the intemperance
with which he plunged into all pleasures. A lan~
gour like that of death seized his exhausted frame, in
spite of all the virtue of the phial, which he vainly
kept invoking for health, at the first attack of his
disease. Recovery visited him not, but on the con-
trary frightful dreams.
VOL. II.   H 2                89

I

Ii


MARVELLOUS REPOsIToRY.

It seemed. to him that one of' the phiats which
were standing by his bed-side, began to set up a
wild dance, jostling against the rest in a furious
manner. "After gazing at it for some minutes, Rich-
ardjrecognised -it to be that in which the little spirit
was enclosed, and exclaimed: " Bottle-devil, bottle-
devil, thou assistest me no more, but rather destroy-
est that which should work my cure." Whereupon
the little black thing sang in a hoarse voice:
" Richard ! Richard ! praiyest in vain:
Prepare thee now for eternal pain;
Therein must thou abide and endure,.
Since spirit's power can work no cure-.-
No herb that groweth, death can heal:-
I joy, for that thou'rt mime I feel.
After vtih it immediately stretched itself out, quite
long and thin, and, notwithstanding that Richard
held the phial stopped as closely as possible, it crept
out between his thumb and the cork: it then sud-
denly became a large black man, who began to
dance in a most hideous manner, clapping to and
fro, at the same time, his huge dusky wings.; and at
length placed his hairy, leathern breast, upon Rich;.
ard's bosom, and his grinning face upon Richard's
face, so that the latter felt as if he were himself as-
suming the hideous figure, and in a tone of wild ago-
ny, screamed out for a mirror.
A cold sweat .stood upon his brow, as he awoke
out of the ghastly dreani, and he thought that he
perceived a monstrous black toad creep down be-
side him into his bed; but, upon putting down his
hand, he felt only the phial, in which the little black
figure lay panting and apparently exhausted.
How awfully long did the remainder of this hor-
rible night seem to the si'k and phrensied wretch.
He dared not again to resign himself to sleep, lest
the terrific vision should re-appear; hardly too, did
he venture to open his wearied eyes, even in the
dark, lest he should perceive the monstrous fiend
squiatted in some corner of the apartment. Yet
90

I

I

U

THE BOTTLE-IMP.

did he shut his eyes but for a moment, he thought
that it was again upon him, and started up with hor-
ror. He rang aloudl for shis attendants, but no one
camne, all was still as the grave. Thus did he lie, in
a state-of' torturing horror, throughout the whole of
that long, dreary night, the terror of which was in-
creased ,when he reflected th-at, if this single night ap-
peared almost an eternity of terrors, what must
seem the eternal night of hell, on which no day
would ever dawn-t hat night to whose -dreadful
visions there would be no end ?-H-e determined, at
all events, upon getting. rid of the fatal phial the
very next morning.
When, however, the morning came, he felt his
spirits so much revived, that he began to ask himself
whether he had vet turned the bottle-imp sufficient-
ly to account. Palaces and villas, and all the luxui-
ries wherewith they were furnished, seemed hardly
enough; he, therefore, instantly demanded a great
heap of ducats to be placed beneath his pillow, andl
on finding them there instantaneously, he then be-
gan to reflect how best to dispose of the talisman.
He knew that his physician was a great naturalist,
and one who sought much after all monsters, and all
such wonderful productions as are generally kept in
spirits; lie hoped, ,therefore, that he should be able
to pass off the bottle-imp to the learned man as a cu-
riosity of this description; for else the doctor was
too good-a Christian to have any thing to do with the
evil creature. The deceit, indeed could hardly be
termed an innocent one, but need knows no nice-
ties.
Accordingly, he offered the doctor the little spirit,
.which was rnow become again exceedingly lively,
jumping to and fro, in the bottle, with great vivaci-
ty; -insomuch that, anxious to examine what he con-
sidered a wonderful lusuis natural, the learned man
agreed to purchase it, if the price demanded foir it
were not too high. In order to satisfy his conscience
as well as he could, Richard asked a sum as nearly
91

K

j

*1
it
'1


TH~ JIOTTLE-ZMP.

MARVELLOUS REPOSITORY.

approaching to five ducats as was possible: the do~-
tor, however, would give no more thanthree, which,
fearing to lose his customer altogether, the other at
last accepted, taking care, however, to bestow it all
in alms upon the poor. But the money which he
had found under his pillow, he carefully laid by, as
the only fund upon which his future wealth an~
prosperity depended.
In the mean while, his disorder continued to in-
crease; he lay in a constant delirium, and had he
still been tormented by the possession of the bottle..
(levilthere is no doubt but that he would actually have
(lied of terror and anxiety. At length, however, he
gradually grew better; and no~V the only thing that
seemed to retard his recovery, was his solicitude
about the du~ ats, which he could no longer find be-
neath his pi&amp;w. At first he was very loth to make
any inquiry after them; when, however, he did so
no one could give any account of them. Being able
to obtain no information respecting the gold, it
now remained for him to consider how he might
best convert his mansion and villas into money. But
here too, he was reckon4g without his host, for a
throng of creditors appeared with various claims up-
on his estates, all duly signed by himself, and sealed~
with his own sfgnet: all that he could do, therefore,
was to depart as quickly as possible, with the little
he could save from the fangs of these harpies; so that
he quitted all his splen"dour very nearly a beggar.
At this juncture, his physician made his appear-
ance, with a countenance betokening serious dis-
pleasure. "Doctor," exclaimed the unfortunate
young merchant, "if it be, that you are come hither,
like the rest of your fraternity, with a large bill, I
prithee add another item to the account, and see,
good doctor, that it be for opium, or some equally po-
tent drug: for my last bread is now baked,, as I
know but too well, I having no money to buy more."
"Nay, nay," replied the physician, "things are
not yet so bad as that. I am not only ready to r~
92

K

pounce every demand upon you, but have also pre.
pared a certain, most efficacious medicine, that will
quickly revive you from this despondency; all that I
ask for it is two ducats."
"And most readily will I pay them," replied the
youth, which, having done, the doctor forthwith de~
parted. On opening the box, wherein he expected
to find his cordial restorative, he discovered a phial;
but how great was his dismay on perceiving that it
was that which contained the little bottle-devil; ~nd
that, affixed to it, it had a label containing the~ fol..
lowing lines:
Thy body I strove to cure from ill,
But thou my soul hast sought to kill;
Yet, ha3 my att, 'hove craft of thine,
Perceiv'd full soon thy base design.
Let me now retaliate,
To thee again revert thy flute
Be thine once more the dreadful sprite,
And mayst thou feel his fetlest might.
Great, indeed, was Richard's alarm, at finding that
he had re-purchased his phial, at so much lower a
price.
Having, first of all, summoned by~a wish, a sum
of money double to that which he had lost, he carri-
ed and deposited it all with the nearest scriArener,
excepting one hundred and twenty pieces. He then
paid a visit to an antiquated lady, and, alter some
time, displayed the curious toy he had brought, mak.
ing the little black puppet, enclosed in the phial,
perform abundant antics atud tricks. She, like the
rest of her sex, was (1esirou~ of obtaining such a droll
play-thing; and, on the youth's demanding a ducat
for it, she l)ai(l it without hesitation. This bargain
being completed, Richard hastened away as quickly
as he could, and repaired to the scrivener, with
Whorri he had deposited his money. He now found,
however, that gold sticks so fast to certain l)eople's
fingers, that they cannot shake it off. The honest
93

I

Ii
I ~


MARVELLOTJS i~EPOSITORY.
man stared with the utmost astonishment, protesting
most vehemently, that he had never clapped his eyes
on the young fellow before. This worthy specimen
of probity, had written his receipt for the sum de-
posited, with a kind of ink that totally disappeared
in the space of a few hours: therefore, when Rich-
ard produceflhis voucher, he found that he had
merely a piece of plain paper. He thus found him-
self suddenly reduced to poverty, and would, indeed,
have been completely a beggar, had he not still thir-
ty ducats remaining.
He who lies in too short a bed, must even pull up his
legs; he who has no bed, must couch on the bare floor;
who cannot afford to ride, must walk:-so was it with
our rrterchant, who was now fain to become a ped-
icr.
For this purpose he provided himself with a suit-
able box: but with what a heavy heart did he first
buckle it on, to take his stand, with some small ware
in those very streets where, hut a few weeks before,
he used *to pass with a splendid retinue. In a little
while, however, he became somewhat reconciled to
his new occupation, having no lack of customers.
"If I proceed at this rate," thought he, "1 may yet
again become a prosperous man, and that too, at no
very distant time. I will then return to my native
Germany, where I shall find myself more comfort-
able than ever, after being in the power of the ac-
cursed bottle-devil, and having got out of his clutch-
es by my own skill and dexterity.
With such thoughts did our newly made pedler
cheer and console himself, on retiring for the night,
to an obscure inn. On taking off his box, severalof
the guests, attracted by curiosity, began to examine
the various wares it contained.
"My good friend," exclaimed one of these inquisi-
tive gentry, "prythee, what queer kind of animal is
this which you have got here in this phial, i~nd
which keeps jumping about at so strange ~ rate?"__
rfo his great terror, Richard now, for the flr~t
94

I,

THlE BlOTTLE-IMP.

time, perceived that, along with the other articles
in his box, he had purchased the fatal bottle-devil.
Instantly did he offer it to the bystan ~l for a mere
trifling sum, but not one of them coud endure the
hideous creature, neither could Richard inform
them of any particular use it was of; he, nevei~the-
less, continued to harrass them at such a rate, with
his entreaties to purchase it, that, at length, they
thrust the impertinent chapman and his wares into
the street.
In the anguish of his distress he now returned to
the person who had sold him the box, and pressed
him to take back the little i.mp at a lower price.
The fellow, however, quite out of temper, at being
disturbed at such an unreasonable hour, and little
~: disposed to become a dealer in such strange coin-
modities, bade him begone.
Thus repulsed, he retired, and drawing the little
dusky imp from his pocket, he cried; "Thou mis-
creant devil! If I again call on thee for thy services,
it is, that I may rid myself of thee for ever."
Having thus vented the bitterness of his feelings,
he forthwith desired to have a sum much more con-
siderable than the last, and then, almost sinking un-
der its weight, he proceeded to the next town. Here
he purchased a splendid equipage, hired a numerous
retinue, and set out for Rome, convinced that there
he should soon be able to find some one, who would
not scruple to take his unwelcome little coi~ipanion
off his hands. As often as he expended a ducat, did
he require the 'imp to replace it by another, in order
..hat, after selling his phial, he might still have the
entire sum. Tf his seemed to him no more than a
fair compensation for the horrors he constantly 'en-
dured; for, in addition to the nightly visits of the
black apparition, that never failed to come, and lie
Upon his breast, he saw also, the bottle-devil con-
stantly frisking about the phial, with the most hor-
rible glee, as if now quite certain of his prey, at the
expiration of the due term of his service.
95

I-      ______

I

Ii

19


MARVELLOUS REPOSITORY.                                  THE BOTTLE-IMP.

Hardly had his wealth and the figt~re which he
made, procured him admission into the first circles
of Roman society, than his constant dread would not
allow him to wait until a proper opportunity should
offer, of freeing himself from his tormentor. He
was continually offering his phial to every person,
demanding for it three groschen in German money;
insomuch that he, in a short time, became to be con-
sidered as a lunatic, and was a subject of ridicule to
every one. Money makes a good mood, and r~any
a fair friend withal: so was it with our Richard; yet
no sooner did he produce his phial, and begin to talk
of' three groschens, than all present were glad to es-
cape his importunity.
So great at lengths was his despair, that he could
no longer endure to remain at Rome, but determin-
ed to try. his fate in war, hoping that, by some
chance, he might there, at least, get rid of the cause
of his misery. He had heard that two small Italian
states were engaged in hostilities towards each other,
and prepared to espouse the cause of one party.
Adorned with a rich golden cuirass, and a superb
crest of plumes, and armed with two light hunting
pieces, an admirably tempered sword, and two beau-
tiful daggers, did he set out, mounted on a noble
Spanish steed, and attended by three followers, all
of whom were bravely equipped.
A volunteer of so gallant a bearing, needed not to
offer his services in vain. Richard soon saw himself,
therefore, attached to a troop of brave comrades, and
led such a .jovial life in camp, with drinking and sing.
ing, that his mortal apprehensions, and nocturnal vis'
ions, gradually left hun. Having received a good
lesson from what he experienced at Rome, he was
now cautious in offering his strange ware for sale;
observing not to urge it with stich suspicious earnest-
ness. Indeed, he had hardly spoken of it to any one,
hoping thereby to have an opportunity of meeti
with some one who would not refuse it, if offered
~4uite unawares; and with seeming indifference.
96

- ~

One morning, as Richard was playing at dice,
with some companions, they were suddenly sum
moned to battle, by an alarm sounded on the trum..
pet. The 'cry was instantly "to horse !" With
joyous spirits did our warrior leap upon his steed, as
it neighed and pawed the ground; the leaders en-
couraged on their troops, the signal sounded for the
combat. A, troop of the enemy's cavalry advanced,
apparently for the purpose of hindering their attack;
yet they soon retired before the powerful charge of
their adversaries, nor were Richard and his follow-
ers the last among the pursuers. The balls now be-
gan to whiz in the air, and many a rider fell from
his horse, rolling to the earth in his blood. Spite of
his personal couarge, Richard could not think with-
out shuddering, of the immediate peril in which ht~
was placed, fearing that some fatal ball might, in a
single moment, deliver him into the power, not only
of the bottle-devil, but of the great Satan himself.-.
Scarcely, however, had he expressed a wish to es-
cape from the scene of danger, ere his steed bore
him away to a wood, which was situated at no great
distance.
So hard did he spur the animal, and urge him to
flight, that it at length stopped quite exhausted.
He then alighted, being himself greatly fatigued' un-
buckled his own cuirass, and sword, and the trap'
pings of his horse, and laying himself down on the
grass, said: "This fighting is dangerous work at the
best, but much more so with a devil in one's pock-
et !" He now wished to devise what course it would
behove him neixt to pursue, but fell into a profouiid
sleep."
After he had indulged in a repose of several hours,
tie was awakened by the sound of voices and ap-
proaching footsteps. He stirred not in hope that he
might be passed by unnoticed, but soon found that
the attempt would not succeed, for a voice; of no
very friendly or musical tone, thundered out; "Ho!
Fellow, art thou already dead, or are we to have the
VoL. ii.   I        B7       97

II

Y

h
i


I.

I

MARVELLOUS REPOSITORY.

honour of killing you?" Looking up perforce at
this uncourteous address, the unfortunate Richard
F perceived a musket levelled at his breast. The feb
ow who held it, was arufflanly-looking foot soldier,
and the others had already seized upon his steed and
equipment as their booty. *Struck with terror, he
supplicated most earnestly for mercy, but if they
were determined upon shooting him, requested that
one of them would first purchase a little phial, which
he had in his pocket.
- "Setiseless poltroon that thou art !" cried one of
the fellows with a grin, "to suppose that we here
barter for any thing; although that we will take the
bargain off thy hands, thou neediest not fear;" and
so saying, he seized hold of the phial, and thrust it
into his bosom.
"In God's name thou art welcome to it," cried
Richard, "if thou canst keep it. Yet that thou
can~4 not do, unless thou first purchase it."
The soldier laughed at hearing him speak thus,
and, thinking him somewhat crack brained, rode off
without paying farther attention to him. On feel-
ing in his pocket, however, Richard found that the
phial was there again, whereupon, holding it up
that they might see it, he called after them. The
fellow who had taken it was struck with amazement;
and as, on thrusting his hand into his bosom, he did
not feel it, he ran back in order to recover his
booty.
"Did I not tell thee," said Richard mournfully,
"that it would not continue with thee. Pay me but
the trifle I demand and it is thy own."
"Juggler !" returned the soldier, "dost thou think
to defraud me of my well-earned spoils, by these con..
during tricks of thine?~'
And holding the phial carefully in his hand, away
he ran to overtake his companions: suddenly, how-
ever, he stopped short, exclaiming, with an oath,
that it was gone again. Whist he was searching for
it on the ground, Richard called out to him once
98

THE" BOT TLE-IMP.

5nore: "Return hither, my good friend, for it is
again in my pocket."
On finding this really to be the case, the soldier
became more desirous of possessing so curious and
wonderful a thing. On these occasions, indeed, it
always manifested more than usual liveliness and
agility, knowing that such bargains accelerated the
iThal term of its servitude. Three groschen, how-
ever, still seemed too much to the soldier. "WelI
then, since thou art so unwilling to part with thy
coin, let it be a single groschen, and take away the
purchase in good hour." Thereupon was the bar-
gain concluded, the money paid, and the little bottle
devil delivered up to his new master. While the
soldier and his companions were examining the
singular creature, and amusing themselves with its
grim antics, Richard was reflecting upon his future
destiny. His heart now felt quite light; but unfor..
tunately, his purse was quite as light as his heart;
nor did he know to what to betake himself, since he
Would not venture to return to his troop, although
he left there, not only his followers and his equip-
ments, but all his money. He was partly ashamed
of his disgraceful flight, and partly afraid lest if he
returned, he should be put to death as a deserter.
It then occurred to him, that it would not be amiss
were he to offer to accompany these troopers, hav-
ing gathered from their discourse that they belong-
ed to the other party, among whom he was certain
of remaining unknown; and now that he had lost
all h~s cash, and gotten rid of his little (le vii to boot,
hc had gotten back some of his courage in exchange,
and was, by no means, disinclined to venture his
life once again, in the hope of obtaining some valu-
able spoil. He accordingly gave utterance to his
wishes; and his proposal being accepted, he forth
with set off with his new comrades.
'rim captain was not very scrupulous in taking
into his serviCe such a tall and well built young fel-
low as Richard, who was therefore considered as
99


'I

M&amp;RVELLOUS REPOSITORY.

rainy enlisted among them. He was still, however,
displeased with his lot; for, since the last battle, the
two armies remained quite inactive, without either
attacking the other, a treaty of peace being in agita-
tion. Under these circumstances, there was little
danger of wounds, but, at the same time, very little
opportunity of fattening on booty and plunder.-
Instead of the latter,, the troops must perforce)
content themselves with their camp fare, and their
scanty pay. In addition to this, while most of his
comrades had already enriched themselves in the
preceding engagements, Richard, the once wealthy
merchant, was almost the only one who was a
beggar among opulent neighbors. Very natural-
ly, therefore, he grew weary of such a life, so that
once having received his monthly pay-too in-
considerable for his wants, and yet too much for him
not to attempt something with it-he determined to
go to a settling booth, and see whether the dice
would not befriend him more than either traffic or
war had hitherto done.
His success at play was as checkered as usual, now
winning, now losing; and so did it continue, un-
til late at night, when all the dice turned up against
Richard whose cash was now quite gone, nor would
any one give him credit for a doit. He now offered
to stake his cartridges, having nothing else to offer;
the proposal was accepted; and, as the throw was
about to be made, Richard perceived that the soldier
who had accepted the stake, was the very same who'
had purchased the bottle-devil, by the assistance of
which he would, doubtless, be certain of winning.
He would fain have cried "hold !" but the dice
had already decided in favour of his opponent.
tTttering curses at his ill fate, he quitted the coml)a-
ny, and retired in the dark to his own tent. A com-
rade who had been equally unfortunate at play, but
whose brain was less heated by wine, now took him
by the arm, and, as they were proceeding together
100

THlE BOTTLE-IMP.

inquired whether he had any more cartridges in his
tent.
"No," returned Richard, furiously; "did I pos-
sess any, they too should serve me for the same pur-
pose."
"Then," said his companion, "you would do well
to provide yourself with fresh ones, for should the
commissary come to examine you, and find you with-
out them, he will order you to be shot."
"Zounds! that were plague work indeed !-but I
have neither cartridges, nor wherewithal to procure
them."
"'Phine is a sorry case indeed, then," replied the
other, "for the' commissary comes hither on the
morrow."
This intelligence, though it did not tend greatly
to tranquilize Richard, served in some degree to so-
ber him; he went therefore, to inquire of his com-
rades, if any one would lend him some cartnidgesb
All, however, flouted him a.s a wild; idle fellow, and
ha(!e him not interrupt them with unseasonable stufL
In the utmost apprehension, lest he should be order-
ed to he shot the very n~ext (lay, he rummaged every
where, in the hope of finding some loose coin, but
coul(1 meet witl~ no more than five hellers. Late as
it now was, he hurried from tent to tent, in order to
find some one who would supply him with the cart-
ridges. Some laughed at, others abused him, but
not one made any reply to his demand. At length,
he came to a tent, the occupant of which he discov-
ered to be the very soldier who had so lately stripped
him of his cartridges at play.
Comrade," cried Richard, with great agitation,
"if any one, it is yourself who must assist me in this
extremity. But just now you plundered me of all
my cart ridges, nor is it the first time in my lice ,that
you have proved the cause of my misfortunes. On
the morrow the commissarry comes, and he, unless I
~an produce my cartridges, ivill certainly give or
VOL. ii.   I 2                101

1


~IARV~f~LOUS REPOSiTORY.
'lets for me to be shot; you must therefore either
give or lend,-at least sell me some."
"As to either giving or lending, that I have long
ago forsworn; yet, to ease your distress, I will agree
to sell you some. What money therefore have
you?"
"But five heller~," replied Richard, in a mcIan.~
choly tone.
" Well," said the soldier, "to show thee that I am
willing to do thee a comrade's turn, there are five
cartridges for thy five Itellers. Now then, betake
thyself to thy rest, and disturb neither me nor my
neighbours any longer;" which request, as soon, as
he had received what he sought, Richard instantly
hastened to comply with.
On the following day, the troops were examined,
and Richard passed muster with his five cartridges,
at which he, for a while, considered himself su-
p remedy happy, in spite of all the misfortunes he
had undergone. His felicity was, however, but of
very short duration: the joy he at first felt, at find-
ing himself out of actual danger, soon subsided,
when, on retiring to his tent, he found himself oblig-
ed to dine on coarse bread, without any better sauce
to it than his own reflections9 "What would I not
now give," sighed he, "had I but one of all the du.
cats which, in the days of my folly, I so wantonly
squandered away." Hardly had he formed the
wish, when, lo! a beautiful bright golden dacat was
in his hand. But, alas! the thought of the bottle-
devil, which instantly flashed across his mind, damp-
ed all the satisfaction he had otherwise felt, at find-
ing himself possessor of so acceptable a piece of
gold.
At this instant, the comrade of whom he had ur-
chased the cartridges entered his tent, with a loot~ of
anxiety, and said, " Friend, I have missed the phi~l
with the little black creature, you must remember it
' well; it is the same that I formerly purchased of
yourself. Has it happened that I sold it to you by
10~

THE B3OTTLE-IMP.

tnistake for a cartridge, for I wrapped it up in a
piece of palmer, and it was lying close beside them?"
With a trembling hand did Richard now search in
his cartridge-box, and found, the first thing he took
hold of, to be the fatal phial, wrapped up in the form
of a cartridge.
"Ha!" cried the soldier, " this is all right. 'r~
say the truib, ugly as the creature is, I should be ex-
ceedingly loth to lose it, since I somehow cannot
help fancying that it helps me to good luck. So,
comra(le, take one of the Ite11er~ back again, and re-
(urn to me my bottle."
Most readily did Richard accede to this demand,
and the soldier departed equally l)leased.
Yet was poor Richard ill at '~ase, after having met
with his hot tle-devi once more, and having had it
again in his own possession, he could not help ima-
wining that lie saw it grinning at him, between the
toWs of his tent, and that it would strangle him in
his sleep. Much as he stood in need of refreshment,
he flung the piece of money from him; and at length,
his terror, lest the accursed being should once more
return while he continued there, arose to such a
pitch, that he fled from the camp, and entered a
thick wood, where, exhausted by alarm and fatigue,
he sunk down in a wild lonesome spot.
"Ah me!" he exclaimed, as he lay there panting,
"that I had but a camp bottle, with water, to keep
me from dying with faintness!" And the bottle of
water stood besi(le him. It was not till after he had
diank a hearty draught of it, that he thoug~it of ask.
ing himself by what means it came there. The bot-
tle-devil now occurred to him; when, putting his
hands into his pockets, and finding the phial there,
overcome with sudden horror, he fell do~vn in a deep
SWOOn.
While he continued in this state, his former horri-
ble dream returned, wherein he beheld the little
bottle-imp stretch himself out longer and longer, and
at last fix himself, grinning most hideously, upon his
103

'I


MARVELLOUS RE1'OSJTO~Y.
breast; he expostulated with the monster, assert.
ing that it no longer belonged to him, but the
creature replied, with a hollow satanic laugh:
"Thou bought me for a heller-must, therefore,
either sell me for less, or the bargain will not hold
good."
Richard leaped up in horror, and thought he still
beheld the terrific figure, as it re-entered the phial,
in his pocket. In a state of agonized phrenzy, he
dashed the phial from him, down a steep hollow,
hut instantly afterwards, felt it again in his pocket.
"Alas! alas !" screamed the unhappy wretch, "how
fortunate did I at one time consider myself, at find-
ing that, let me cast away the bottle ever so far, it
always returned to ms--but that it does so, is now
my misery-yes, my everlasting misery." And he,
thereupon, began to run furiously among the wild
bushwood, dashing in the dark against trunks of
trees, and pieces of rock, and hearing, at every step
he took, the phial clirfking in his pocket.
At day break, he arrived at an open plain, which
had the appearance of being well cultivated, and
had a cheerful aspect; somewhat revived by this
prOSl)eCt, he began to hope that what he had e~pe-
rwnced was merely a wild dream, and that the
phial would prove to be no more than a common bot-
tle. He took it out, therefore, and held it up against
the sun; but, alas! he still perceived the little black
monster, dancing up and down; and stretching out
towards him as usual, its little, ugly, misshapen arms,
as if it would seize hold of him. Uttering a loud
cry of agony, he let the phial fall on the ground, but
only to feel it in his pocket immediately afterwards.
The thing of the utmost consequence for hini now to
do, was to inquire every where for some coin of less
value than a keller. No where, however, could he
meet wjth any such piece of money; so that, at
length, despairing of being ever able to get rid of
the monster that now threatened, inevitably, to be-
come his master, he no longer thought of calling up
104

THE I3OTTLE-.IMP.

on it for its services; his increasing b~vror, on the
~ontrary, would permit him to think of nothing but
his miserable situation. Thus did he wander up
and down, subsisting upon charity; and as he had a
wild, crazed appearance, and was continually be-
seeching every one for some piece of money less than
a helter, he was considered as a mad-man, and was
~alIed, "Crazy Ha~f-heller," by which appellation
he was soon known far and wide.
It is said that the vulture sometimes fixes itself
with its talons into the back of a young deer, and
thus hunts to death the poor animal, which, as it
flees, in agony, still carries along with it, its savage,
relentless enemy. Thus was it with poor Richard,
and the satanic imp in his 1)hial. But, instead of
accompanying hint through his continual and un-
varied misery, let us pass over a considerable inter-
val, and arrive at an important event.
He had one day lost himself i~ a wild rocky coun-
try, and had set down to rest beside a little stream,
whose murmuring seemed to sympatize with his
affliction. A loud sound of horse's feet rung on the
rocky surface of the ground, when there came riding
upon a large, black, wild-looking steed, a man of
gigantic figure, and exceedingly terrific counte~.
nance; he was attired in a deep blood-red garment,
and approached the spot where Richard was sit-
ting.
"Wherefore so melancholy, young stranger?"
~aid he, addressing himself to the youth, who invo-
luntarily shuddered at his voice, as if with a vague
presentiment of something evil:-" I should take
thee to be a merchant;-hast thou been making a
bad bargain?--hast purchased any thing at too high
a price ?"
"Alas, no! rather at too low a one," returned
Richard, in a tremulous tone.
"Aye, so I should think indeed," rejoined the
grim horseman, with a horrible laugh. "And hast
thou then got for sale a thing that they call a bottle-
'o~i

/


MARVELLOUS REPOSITORY.
imp? Or am! mistaken in conjecturing you to oe a
.razy HaIf-heller?"
The poor youth was hardly able to reply, "yes,"
so great was his horror, expecting every instant, to
behold the apparition's mantle expand itself into a
pair of bloody-Wings, and his steed to assume a more
terrific spectral appearance~ breathing forth in fer~
nal flames from his nostrils; and, lastly, that the
monster would carry off his wretched soul to the re-
gions qf eternal misery.
But the ghastly horseman said, in somewhat
milder voice, and with less appalling mien: "I per-
ceive for whom you take me; yet be comforted, for
1 am not he, I rather present myself to rescue you,
if so may be, from his power; having for some days
past been searching for you, in order to become the
purchaser of your phial. To confess the truth, my
friend, thou hast paid indeed a most damnable small
sum for it, nor can ~ven I myself inform you where
it is possible to meet a coin of less value. But list-
en and obey me.
On the other side of this mountain, there resides a
prince, who is a sad dissolute young fellow. When
he comes to the chase on the morrow, I will first
withdraw him from his attendants, and then cause a
frightful monster to fall upon him. Wait thou here
till midnight, and then proceed, just as the moon rises
above that jagged rock, towards that gloomy defile
to the left, but neither hurry nor loiter in thy pace,
so wilt thou arrive at the spot precisely as the mon-
ster has seized the prince in his frightful paws. At-
tack it, hut courageou~lYYit must yield to thee; and
drive it (lown the steep cliff into the sea. Then, as
a recompense for having delivered him, demand of
the prince, that he cause two half-hellCi'S to be coin
ed for thee; let me have them, in order that, with
one, I may become the purchaser of thy bottle-
deviX."
So spoke the grisly horseman, and then, withoUt
waiting for any reply, rode off slowly into the wood.
106

THE BOTTLE-IMP.
"But where am Ito find thee when I have obtain-
ed the haif-hellers?" cried out Richard.
"At the black fountain; of which each old crone
here about will be able to inform thee." And then
with solemn, but wide outstretching pace, did the
li~rrible steed bear away its no less terrific rider.
He who has already lost nearly every thing, ven-
tures not much by any further risk; Richard, there..
fore, determined, as his situation was so desperate,
to follow the counsels of the grisly spectre.
Night closed in, and.the rising moon shortly after
appeared above the craggy tops of the rocks which
nad been marked out to him. The pale wanderer
then raised himself tremblingly, and entered the
dark defile. All seemed there cheerless and gloomy,
t   seldom  was a pale moonbeam    able to penetrate
above the lofty precipices; a dark oppressive vapour
too, as if exhaled from graves, seemed to fill the nar-
row pass; in other respects, there was nothing par-
ticularly terrible in its appearance. Richard felt
himself by no means disposed to linger in the gloomy
valley, yet adhering to the strict injunction laid up-
on him by the mysterious horseman, he did not ven-
ture to quicken his pace, resolutely determined not
to snap short at once the only slender thread that
still attached him to light and hope.
After the lapse of several hours, some red streaks
of dawn cast a glimmering light across his path; a
reviving breeze played upon his forehead. But,
just as he was about to emerge from the deep valley,
and to enjoy the forest scenery, and the azure waters
of the sea, that lay expanded at no great distance
before him, he was disturbed by a piercing cry of
distress. On looking around, he perceived a horri-
ble animal attacking a youth in a magnificent hunt-~
ing dress, who had fallen on the ground. Richard's
first impulse was to rush instantly to the stranger's
rescue; yet his courage failed him as soon as he
clearly discerned the monster, and saw that it re-
seinbled a huge grisly baboon, with a stag's antJer~
107


MARVELLOUS REpOSITORY.
on its forehead; and, ~0twjthsthndiflg the cries of
the wretched man for succour, he was about to turn
back. But suddenly calling to mind all that the
horseman had said, and inspired by the dread of his
eternal doom, he ran and attacked the monster of an
ape with a knotty chib, just as it had seized the un~
fortunate hunter in its paws to fling him up into 'the
air, and then catch him upon his branching horns as
he descended to the ground. At the approach of
Richard, however, it let fall its prey, and began to
flee with a hideous, terrifying cry; he pursuing it all
the while, till, leaping from a precipice into the sea,
it turned its frightful visage upon him, and then dis-
appeared beneath the waves.
Flushed with success, Richard now returned tri-
umphantly to the hunter whom he had just rescued,
and who, as he expected it would be, announced
himself as the prince of that territory. After ex-
t~ll~n~ethe bravery of his deliverer, he requeste(i
t a would boldly demand whatever boon he
should think fit.
"What !" exclaimed Richard, in a transport of
joyous hope, "and are you serious? and will you
pledge me your princely word, that you will grant
what I shall demand of you?"
Again the prince confirmed his promise, assuring
him, in the most solemn manner, that he would
gladly comply with ~vhateVer he should request.
"Then, I supplicate you, for the love of God, to
order that some half~hellCr5 be immediately struck for
me, even though it be only two." Whilst the prince
was ~regarding his strange petitioner with fixed as-
tonishment, some of his train came up, and, on hear-
ing the adventure and the singular boon that had
been craved, one of them recognized, in the persofl
of the suitor, the poor crazed Half-keller.
rrhe prince began, thereupon, to laugh, whilst
Richard, clasping his knees, conjured him, in the
most moving manner protesting that, unless he ob'~
1Q~

[,1

THlE BIOTTLE-IMP.

tamed the Iialf-hellers, his soul was doomed to evc~
lasting perdition.
To this the prince replied, while he still continue~
ed to laugh, "Rise up, my friend, I have j)ledged
my princely word, and, if you persist in demanding
them, I will engage to supply thee with haif-hellers
to thy very heart's content. But, if a still lesser coin
will suit your purpose, I can accommodate thee
without the aid of my mint-master, for the neigh.
boring provinces all maintain that my hellers ar~
so light that three of them are requisite to pass for a
single ordinary one."
"VVere that indeed the case-" said Richard.
"Thou art indeed the first," returned the prince,
"that has ever doubted it. Should they, however,
upon trial, prove not suitable for your purpose, I
here promise to order some less valuable to be coined
for thy espe use-provided, however, that it be
possible so t 0."
Having said this, he gave orders that Richard
should forthwith receive a whole bag-full of hollers.
The latter instantly set off at a furious rate towards
the adjoining province, where he became more de-
lighted than he had been with any occurrence for a
longtime past, at finding, at the very first inn, that
the people were exceedingly unwilling to exchange
one heller in return for three which he offered them,
by way of experiment.
He now inquired his way towards the Black
Fountain, when some children, who were present,
ran away, shrieking with aifright; and the host in~
formed him, not without shuddering himself, that it
was a place frequented by demons an~ evil spirits,
but hardly ever visited by mortal being. He knew
perfectly well, however, that the entrance to it was
at no very great distance, through a cavern, at the
mouth of which stood two decayed cypress trees, so
that Richard could not mistake finding it; "yet,
God forbid, that he, or any other Christian person.
should ever seek it!"
K                 '09

I;


MARV~IL0U5 ItEPOSITORY.
At hearing this account, Richard was again
greatly disturbed, but let the event be what it would,
he must make the attempt, and therefore set out to
discover it. Even at a distance, the cavern had a
most dismal and terrifying appearance: it seemed as
if the two cvpresses had ~died with horror, at the
ghastly hollow, which, as he approached it, display-
ed just above its mouth, a singular stone. It seemed
to be entirely covered with grim countenances,
some of which bore a resemblance to the hideous
baboon-monster, on the sea-shore. Yet, en looking
fearlessly and attentively, one might perceive that it
was merely the rugged stone. Not without trem-
bling, slid Richard pass beneath these horrible vis-
ages. The bottle-imp now became so heavy in his
pocket, that it seemed as if it wished to prevent his
advancing further. This circumsta e inspired him.
with courage to proceed: "for," t ht he, ~~it be-
nooves me to do that which this cc atur~ wishes I
should not do.." On penetrating farther into the
cavern, the darkness became so great, that he could
no longer discern any terrifying shapes. He now
proceeded with the utmost caution, groping his way
with a stick, lest he should fall into some abyss, yet
found nothing but a soft mossy turf; and had he not
heard at times, a strange groaning noise, his fears
would have ceased altogether. At length, he reach-
ed the outlet of the cavern. He now found himself
in a dreary hollow, quite enclosed by steep hills.
On one side, he perceived the large sable steed of
the mysterious customer for~ his phial, which w~s
standing motionless as a brazen statue. Oppsiteto
him was a spring, gushing from the rock, and in this,
the grim horseman was washing both his face and
hands. But the horrid stream was of an inky hue,
with which it stained whatever* it touched; for,
when the gigantic figure turned round towards
Richard, the latter perceived that his visage was be-
come like that of a Moor, and thereby formed a ter
rifle contrast against his blood-red garments.
110

1~

THE BOTTLE-IMP.

"Shudder not," cried the hideous being, "this ig
only one of the ceremonies which I am obliged to
perform in honor of the devil. I am also compel-
led to stain my garment afresh, with my own blood-
it is this which gives it a hue of so much deadly lus-
tre:-besides a number of' still more horrible cere-
monies which I am obliged to undei~go. I have,
moreover, formed so strong a compact with the pow~
ers of darkness, both of body and soul, that it is now
utterly impossible for me to obtain redemption on
any terms. And what do you imagine are the terms
on which I have sold myself?-for a hundred thou-
sand pieces yearly. Thus seeing how des -erate is
my own condition , still I am willing
by purchasing the imp thou       to serve thee,
carriest in thy phial,
and thus to frustrate the end of all his long servitude;
besides, the rescuing thee from the powers of hell,
will so enrage them, that, reckless of ought else, I'll
do it. Then how will their impotent curses peal
through the vaults of deepest hell; ha! ha! ha!" So
saying, he began to laugh in the most frightful man-
ner, that the very rocks re-echoed, and the sable
steed, which had hitherto stood motionless, seemed
to shrink with terror at the awful sound.
"Now then, friend," added he, after a while,
hast thou brought me any half-hellers?"
Upon Richard's showing him his piPse, he took
three of the pieces, and gave him a belIer in ex-
change; one of which he directly paid back again.
as the purchase money for the bottle-devil, that now
lay crouched up melancholy at the bottom of the
phial, so that lie felt quite heavy. At I)erceiving this
the unknown purchaser laughed again most violent-
ly, and claimed, "Nothing can avail lhee, fiend;
all resistance is in vain. In token, therefore, of thy
obedience, let me have instantly as m~ich gold as my
strong steed can hear." And no sooner had he ut-
tered the command, than the enormous beast stood
panting beneath the golden load. Then the blood.
re(l horseman, having mounted on his back, it began
111


MARVELLOUS REPOSITORY.
to crawl up the perpendicular sides of the rock, ,just
as a fly does up a wall-and disappeared for ever.
Richard stood for some minutes fixed to the spA in
a stu por of astonishment and joy: but the air of
that Stygian recess seemed troublous and heavy,
while a hollow voice, issuing from the dusky waves
of the Black Fountain, exclaimed: "Now then are
all our labours frustrated, for Le who, whde doomed
to destruction, could attempt the rescue of another,
may~evcn yet be saved himself." Struck with hor.
ror at the sounds, although exulting at their import,
flichard rushed through the cavern, tq feel again the
atmosphere of heaven.
He now felt assured that he was delivered of his
evil fiend forever, and looked once more on the face
of nature with feelings that had long been strangers
to his bosom. Throwing himself upon the grass, he
gazed in an ecstacy of delight on the pure, tranquil,
sunny sky, while a warm gush of tears expressed
that rapture and that gratitude, for which he could
find nO words. The young merchant uio~ became
light and gay as an innocent boy, yet without any
thing resembling his former levity~ Without boast~
ing, as he might well have done, how he had contrir.
ed to outwit the powers of hell, he devoted himself
henceforth, to the service of heaven, an~soon found
himself thriving in far greater prosperitY, from the
efforts of honest industry, than he had ever enjoyed
by means of the fatal talisman. And, whenever he
used afterwards to relate to his awe-struck grand-
children, the adventures of his early days, after ut-
tering a pious orison for the soul of his deliverer, he
would add, by way of moral to his tale, " Lust not,
my dear children, after ill-gotten and ill-to-be.-used
mammon, for it is the Bottle-Imp, that serves us to
our own destruction."
I l~

k the year I~94, a young gentleman, whose faint.
ly dwelt in the town of Sues, in Normandy, came to
the university of Angiers, in order to study the 1aw~.
There he saw Renee Corbeau, the daughter of a
citizen of that place. This amiable girl was young,
prudent, handsome, and witty. Though her parents
were not rich, yet she inspired in the heart of the
young student a passion so vehement, and love in-
spired him with such eloquence, that, in a very short
time their attachment became mutual, was so fer-
vent, that in his transl)orts he offered to espouse her,
and gay e her a solemn promise in writing. The
young woman, agreeably deluded by his putting this
paper into her hands, forfeited her honour. The
consequence was, a child. Her parents reproached
her in severe terms, and began to consult about the
means by which her error might be repaired. The
result of their deliberations was, that she should
make her lover an appointment at their country.~
house, and thus give her parents an opportunity of
surprising them together.
This scheme was effectually carried into execu-
tion, and, while love possessed the heart of the young
Inalnorato, lie gave the daughter a contract of mar~
riage.
The moment he had put his hand to this instru.q
ment, it filled him with disgust. rp hose charms,
which had pierced his heart a few hours before, now
lost their force, and the fair one, from being the
most lovely of her sex, now appeared the least agree~
able. After a few days, he left her abruptly and re~
Vot. 11.   K2                 113

RENEE CORBEAIJ

&amp;

A
i
4
t


1

MARvELLOUs REPOsITORY-.-

turned home to his father, to whom, without the least
reserve, he related the unlucky event. The father
was extremely chagrined at- this story of' his son's,
and disapproving of' the match, he told him there
was but one way left, and that, if he would regain
his favour, he must follow it immediately. The
young gentleman, in obedience to his father's direc-
tions, entered into holy orders, and was actually or-
dained a priest; so that it was impossible for him to
perform his contract.
Renee Corbeau heard this news with the utmost
grief, nor was it possible for her to dissemble the an-
ger rshe conceived against her lover, for committing
so black an act of perfidy. .It is very likely, how-.
ever, that her wrath would have vented. itself in
complaints, and all her. threatenings evaporated in
words; but her father immediately accused the
young man before the magistrate for seduction, and
on hearing the cause, he was found guity. How-
e-ver, he appealed to the parliament of Paris, and the
cause was moved to the Tournelle, where Monsieur
de Villeroy at that time presided. On the hearing
all parties, the behaviour of this young man appeared
so gross, and .capable of so little alleviation, that the
court decided that he should .either marry the wo-
man or suffer de~ath. The first was impossible, be-
cause he had taken 'orders; the court, therefore, di-
rected that he should be led to execution. Accord-
ingly, he was put into the hands of the executioner,
and the confessor drew near, who was to assist him
in his last moments. -Tlhen it was that Renee Cor-
beau found her- bosom agitated with the most ex-
quisite affliction, which was still heightened when
she saw the pomp of justice about to take place, arid
-Jer lover on the point of being led to the scaffold.
Furious, through despair, and guided only by her
passion, she rushed with such impetuosity through
the crowd, that she got into the inner chamber be-
f'ore the judges were separated, and then, her face
bathed in tears, and all in disorder, she addressed
.114

I

RENEE CORBEAU.T

them in the following terms. " Behold ! my Lords
the most unfortuate lover that ever appeared before
the face of justice., In condemning him I love, you
seem to suppose that either I am not guilty of any
thing, or that, at least, my crime is capable of' ex-
cuse, and yet you adjudge me to death, which must
befall me with the same stroke that takes away my
lover. You subject me to the most grievoUs destiny,
for the infamy of my lover's death will fall upon me,
and I shall go to my grave more dishonoured than
him. You desire to repair the injury done to my
honour, and the remedy you bring will load me with
eternal shame; so that at the moment you give your
opinion, that I am rather unhappy than criminal,
you are pleased to punish me with the rmost severe
4and most intolerable pains. How agrees your
Treatment of me with your equity, and with the rules
[of that humane justice which should direct your
Court? You cannot be ignorant of the hardship I
Sustain; for you were men before you were judges.
SYou must have been sensible of the power of love,
Sand you cannot but have sorne idea of the torment
which must be felt in a breast, where the rememi-
brance dwells of having caused the death, the infa-
mous death, of the (lear object of her love. Can
there be a punishment equal to this; or, after it,
could death be considered in any other light than
as the highest blessing of heaven?
"Stay ! Oh, stay, my Lords1 I am going to
open your eyes. I am going to acknowledge my
fault, to reveal my secret crime, which hitherto I
have concealed, that, if possible, the marriage of my
lover might have restored my blasted honour. But,
urged now by remorse of conscience, I am constrain-
ed to confess that [ seduced him. Yes, my Lords,
I loved first! It was I that, to gratify my passion,
informed him of my attachment, and thus I made
myself the instrument of my own dishonour. Change
then, my Lords, the sentiments you have hitherto
entertained of this affair. Look upon me as the se-.
115


MARVELLOUS REPOSITORY.
ducer; on my lover as the person injured; punish
me; save him. If justice is inexorable, and there i~
a necessity for some victim, let it be me.
"You look upon it as a crime lhat he took holy~
orders, and thereby rendered it impossible for him to
comply with his contract; hut this was not his own
act; it was the act of a barbarous father, whose I
rannous commands~ he could not resist. A will in
subjection, my Lords, is no will at all to deserve
punishment. The offender must be his father
could only he guilty; and were he not the father oC
my love, I would demand justice of you on him. Is
it not clear then, my Lords, that your last sentence
contradicts your first? You decreed that he should
have his choice to marry me, or to die, and yet you
never put the first in his power. How odious must
I appear in your eyes, when you choos~ rather to
put a man to death, than to allow him to marry me.
He has declared that his present condition will not
allow him to marry, and, in consequence of this de-
claration, yju have condemned him to death; but
what signifies that declaration; his meaning was,
that he would have married me if he could, and if so,
your sentence is unjust; for, by your former decree,
he was to have his option. But you will say, a
priest can't marry. Ah! my Lords, love has taught
me better. Love brings things instantly to our
minds that may be of service to the object of our
loves. The Pope, my Lords, can (liSj)CnSe with his
vow you cannot be ignorant of this, ~n(1 therefore
his choice may he yet in hi~ power. We. expect
every moment tbe legate of his holiness; he has all
the plenitude of power delegated to him, which is in
the sovereign pontiffi 'I will solicit him for this dis-
pensation, and my passion telisme, that I shall not
plead in vain; for what obstacle will it nQt be able
to surmount, when it has overcome that of your de~
cree. Have pity then, my Lords! Have pity on
two unfortunate lovers~ mitigate your sentence, or,
at kast, suspend it till I have time to solicit th~ l&amp;
116

r4

RENEE CORBEAw

I,

1'

gate for a dispensation. You look or, my lover, it is
true, as a man guilty~of a great crime; but what
crime too great to be expiated by the horrors he has
already sustained? Has he not felt a thousand
times the pains of death since the pronouneing~his
sentence? Besides, could you enter into my breast,
and conceive what torments I have endured, you
would think our fault, foul as it is, f.ullv atoned. I.
see among your Lordships some w;ho are young, and
some who are advanced in year~; the first cannot-
sure, have their~breasts already steeled against the
emotions of a passion natural to their sex; and I may
hope the latter have not forgotten the tender senti-
merits of their junior years. From both I have a
right to pity; and if the voices for m~ are few, let
the humanity of their sentiments prevail against the
number of their opponents~ But if all I have said is
Vain, at least afford me the melancholy pleasure of
sharing his punishment, as I shared his crime. In
this, ni~r Lords, be strictly just; and, as we have
lived, let us die, together."
This amiable woman was heard with equal silence
and compassion; there wa~ not a word lo~t of her
discourse, which she pronounced with a. voice so
clear, an(l with a tone so expressive of her affliction,
that it struck to the heai'ts of the .judg~. Her
beauty, her tears, her eloquence, had charms too
powerful not to incline the most frozen hearts to
think with her. The judges receded unanimously
from their opinions. Monsieut de Villeroy, having
collected their sentiments, and declared that he
agreed with them, proceeded to suspend the last
edict, and to allow the criminal six ri~onths to apply
for a dispensation.
rl~I1e legate imme(liately after entered France. It
was the great Cardinal de Medicis, afterwards Pope,
by the name of Clex~ent the Eleventh, though he
enjoyed the chair not q~iite a month. He beard the
whole of this atPair, and inquired nai'rowlv into al
its circumstances, but finding he took holy orders
117


MARVELLOUS REPOSITORY.
with a 1)remeditated design to avoid the perfoi~m
ance of his contract, he declared, that he was un-
worthy of a dispensation, afl(l that he would not
respite such a wretch from the death he deserved.
Renee Corbeau had a passion too strong to he
overcome; she threw herself at the feet of the king,
Henry the Fourth. He heard her with attention,
answered with tenderness, and, going to the legate
in person, requested the dispensation in such terms,
that it could not be refused. He had the goodness
to deliver it to the lady with his own hands; the
criminal gladly accepted Renee for his wit~e; they
were publwiy married, and lived long together in the
happiest union.

DEAN SWIFT'S BALLAD ON A MURDER.

Ix the year 17%, Catherine Hayes murdered he,
husband, under circumstances of the most horribJe
description. After she and two men, who were h
accomplices, had killed him with a hatchet, they cut
off his head and threw it into the Thames, in order
to conceal their crime; but God, who seeth in secret,
made the murder manifest, and all the parties were
taken. One of the men, Wood, died in l)rison; the
other, Billings, was executed, and then hung in
chains. Catharine Hayes was condemned to be
burnt, and, on the day of execution, being brought
to the stake, was chained thereto with an iron chain,
running round her waist, and under her arms, and a
rope round her neck, which was drawn through a
~boIe in the post; then the faggots, intermixed with
light brush-wood and straw, being piled all round
her, the executioner put fir~ thereto in several
places, which immediately blazing out, as soon as
the same reached her, she with her arms pushed
down those ~~hieh were before her, when she ap-
*          118

A SONG.
peered in the middle of the flames as low as the
waist; upon which the executioner got hold of the
end of the cord which was round her neck, and pull..
ed it tight, in order to strangle her, but the fire soon
reached his hand, and burned it, so that he was
obliged to let it go again; more faggots were imme-
diately throivo upon her, and in about three or four
hours she was reduced to ashes, Horrible as this
murder was, and the annals of crime scarcely pre-
sent its parallel, Dean Swift made it the subject of a
punning ballad, of which the following is a copy.
A SONG ON THE MURDER OF MR. HAY~5.
TN Tyburn road a man there liv'd,
A just and honest life;
And there he might have lived still,
If so had pleased his wife.
But she, to Vicious ways inclined,
A life most wicked led;
With tailors, and with tinkers too,
She oft delil'd his bed.
Full twice a day to church he went,
And so devoat would be;
Sure never was a saint on earth)
If that no saint was be!
'rhis vex'd his wife unto the heart,
She was of wrath so full,
That finding no hole in hiscoat,
She picked one in his skull.
But then her heart 'gan to relent,
And grieved she was so sore;
That quarter to him for to give,
She cut him into four.
119

I

C


MARVF~LL0US I~EPOSIT0RY.

All in the dark and dead of night,
These quarters she convey'd)
And in a ditch at Marybone
His marrow-biones she laid.
His head atAestmninster she threw,
All in the Thames so wide;
Says she, my dear, the wvind sets fair,
And you may have the tide. ~
But heav'n, whose pow'r no limit know;
On earth, or on the main,
Soon caus'd his head for to be thrown
Upon the land again.
The head being found, the justices
T~'heir heads together laid;
And all agreed there must have been
Some body to this head.
But since no body could be found,
High mounted on a shelf,
They e'en set up the head to he
A witness for itself-.
Next, that it no self-murder was,
The case itself explains,
For no man could cut off his head,
And throw it in the Thames.
Ere many days had gone and past,
The deed at length was known,
And Cath'rine she confessed, a~t last,
The fact to be her own.
God prosper long oui- noble king,
Our lives arnd safeties all, .
And grant that we may warning take .
By Cath'rine Hayes's fall.
120

1,

TrlE

F LY-.MA K ER.

IT was towards the close of a hot day in the re-
markable summer of '93, that Major Nicholas Vea-
zie, landlord of a public house, in the village, of
Coonsbury, sat puffing in his arm-chair, nearly eaten
up by green headed flies. He was a thick-set, hard-
breathing little man, somewhat inclined to corpu-
lency, who did nothing but doze and gape from one
year's end to another. To-be-sure, the Blue Griffin
was not overburthened with travellers, but this was
a circumstance unregarded by the Major, so long as
he was allowed to slumber in peace. He was natu-
rally a patient, phlegmatical personage, but in the
depth of summer when the thermometer was at 90 in
the snade, and there was not sufficient air abroad to
fill the sails of a gossamer, and especially when the
flies nearly picked the flesh from his bones, he
was apt to grow som-ewvhat querulous. Such was
the condition of his mind at-the commencement of
our story. He had sweltered in his chair for mores
than an hour, but to sleep-as well might a fish sleep
on a heated gridiron, with a scullion sprinkling him
over -with salt ! It was a wretched situation, and
Veazic could hold out no longer. "~ Blast the flies,
.and the hag that makes them.," said he', springing
up and dislodging a blue-bottle from the very pene-
tralia of his ear; ' but I'll pay her for it yet, curse
me !" and, proceeding to the bar, he helped himself
to a composing draught.
VOL. II.   L                 121

'I

p
I.;


MARVELLOUS REPOSITORY.
While mine host is drinking his liquor, we would
inform the reader, that just on the skirts of Coonsbury,
in a grove of savings and barberry bushes, stood the
solitary hut oCone Becky Mullen. She was a grizzly
old crone, of most fantastic appearance, that hover-
ed about the village in hot weather like a dusty-mil-
ler round a candle. For a time, people were cx
tremely puzzle ~ what to make of here She pretend-
ed to live by drying herbs and distilling rose-water,
but this tale was generally discredited. It was re-
marked that she regularly disappeared when the,
cold weather set in at autumn, and was not again
heard of till the swallows twittered about the eaves
of the cottages, and the hum of the summer insects
was heard in the land. She would then suddenly
reappear near her hut, like a person very busy in
some secret employment; what it was, no one could
imagine, although from the lights in her house it
was thought she labored at it the greater part of
the night. But time unfolded the mystery. It was
whispered one day, in the bar-room of the iBlue
Griffin, that Becky Mullen was employed by the Old
Scratch to manufacture green headed flies. No
sooner was the idea suggested than all present were
convinced of its accuracy. The swamp beyond her
hut was always thronged with hornets, musquetoes,
an(l Jevil's.needles; no green-headed flies had ever
been seen in the place before she settled in it; peo-
ple who passed her dwelling in the evening, had
conceited they heard a strange humming noise in
the surrounding bushes; and moreover, Deacon
Rosebug averred that he had that very day knocked
an enormous horse-fly from the back of his white
pony, which flew off in a strait line towards Becky
Mullen's. The fact, however~ was soon after esta-
blished beyond a doubt, by a swearing fellow named~
Muggins, who affirmed, with a shocking oath, that
he once went into her hut when she was out, ~nd
saw a w'mh-tub fall of horse-flies and devil's~needles
without any legs or wings; "and there was one
1 2~

.I4

THE FLY-MAKER.

U

1'
II

t ~II1

U
4

green-headed fly," said he, "as large as a horn-bug,
with his head in a vise, all finished except screwing
on his bill. Dang-me if it did not make my blood
run cold !" Thus Becky Mullen became notorious
as the Devil's Fly-maker all over the country, and
summer after summer continued to torment the in no-
cent villagers of Coonsbury. But Major Veazie had
acquired the particular ill-will of the old hag, by re-
fusing to arise from his chair to sel fl~r a glass of
gin. She vowed to be revenged on him, and ever
since his house had been a general rendezvous for
insects of every kind.
"However, the devil will have her at last," saia
mine host, as he sat down the glass and returned to
his seat by the window, "there is some comfort in
that, curse her!" and throwing a bandanna over hi~
bald head to protect it from the flies, he again made
the most persevering efforts to sleep.
And now the day drew near its termination. Na
ture, as if wearied with protracted exertion, seemed
gradually sinking to a voluptuous repose. The sun
no longer beat fiercely down on the parched earth,
but enveloped in a smoky vapour, gave to the atmo-
sphere a thick and stonelike heat. Not a breath of
air was stirring. The toad puffed out his sides with
great difficulty in his close retreat, and the asth-
matic grass..hopper wheezed faintly amongst the
grass. A few cows stood midleg in the cool waters
of the Pun kapog, munching like tobacco-chewers,
and lazily fanning themselves with their tails; and no
sound was heard save the creak of a gossiping tea~
table as it rubbed along the floor to the centre of the
room. Mine hcst was aware that his hour of rest had
at last arrived. He could distinctly feel a refreshing
snooze stealing sweetly over his senses, like the rip-
ple of a summer breeze along the motionless sea.
1'h6 whizzing of the flies came fainter on i'is ear,
~nd finally ceased. A moment after he recovered
his conscious~e~j~, and was amazed to find, by the
dryness of his throat, how long he had slept. 1Ja~ti
I ~23


MARVELLOUS REPOSITORY.

ly removing the handkerchief from his face, he cast
his eyes towards the west and beheld the last streaks
of sunlight fading from the horizon, ~vhen~ bustling
into the kitchen, he soon dispatched his evening
meal and was a'~ain at his scat to recruit after the
fatigue.
As the shades of evening grew deep and deeper,
the villagers in their thin summer jackets flocked in-
to the Blue Griffin to converse on the marvels of the
day. Here sat a swaggering bull-necked fellow,
who, if you would believe him, was the richest man
in the whole world; there leaned a rosy-gilled ba-
chelor of sixty-four, who had never ventured out ~f
the sight of his father's chimney during his long and
useless life. That arm-chair contained a worthy
lawyer, who hum-ed and haa-ed and hesitated at
every (juest ion; and in this sat Deacon Rosebug, the
horse-doctor and apothecary. Close by, was the
tailor frowning at a hard drawing long-nine, and
beside birfi stood a bandy-legged shoemaker, who
was eternally complaining of the wickedness of man-
kind. times we have, neighbour Veazie,'~
6~
grunted the pursy bachelor wiping his forehead
with his sleeve.
"1 never perspired so much in my born days," ad-
ded a small white-headed man in a piping tone. "I
swaggers, my bench got so hot this afternoon that I
was nearly (Iried to a cinder."
"How remarkable plenty the flies are to-night,
Deacon Rosebug!"
"So I was ju~t a going to observe. They nip like
biting-turtles! I don't wonder the Major sits un~
easy."
"What a heartless wretch Beck Mullen must be,"
exclaimed the man in gingham, "to persecute him
in this manner!"
"Curse her!" muttered the Major, opening his
eyes and staring wildly around. "But I won't put
I ~4

*    THE FLY-MAKER.

up with it a day longer! I will complain to the Se..
lect men, and they shall rout her to-morrow."
"But, Major, they can't drive her. She has the
lawon her side and the devil too, which, I take it,
Squire Summ~ris, is about the same thing?"
"Why -ahern------aha-.--the----hum-m"-
"What is permitted cannot be gain-sayed," in-
terrupted the shoemaker, "If so be as she is placed
here for a judgment on this sinful world, she wont go
without-"
"But she s4all go," said the Major, kindling with
passion. "I wont feast any body's flies, damme !"
This magnanimous resolution was succeeded by a
dead silence, which was only broken by a heavy
rumbling sound in the distance.
"Was that thunder?" inquired the tailor, in a
quavering tone. Deacon Rosebug stepped to the
door. "There's the blackest cloud I ever saw, driving
towards us from the west. I though
would bring up a shower."        this weather
He had scarcely ceased speaking, when a flash of
lightning gleamed through the windows and filled
the room with the light of day. Again the heavy
rambling ~vas~ heard louder and nearer, and it con-
tinned to increase until the whole party, in alarm,
crowded to the door, Suddenly a carriage whirled
round a corner of the road, with a tremendous noise,
and'drove rapidly towards the inn. The darkness
prevented them from distinguishing any~ thing but
two advancing balls of fi they concluded it
was some stage, which had ~ up its lamps and was
hurrying on to avoid the storm. But before they
could express an opinion, the Vehicle drove up like
lightning and stopped short at the door step. A
sight then met their eyes which made them ache
with terror. Two enormous pepper and salt horses
stood reeking with foam and gasping for breath,
while myriads of flies hovered around, and settled
in clouds upon them. In a light chair to which the~r
were fixed, a la tandem, sat a tall figure, the like of
VoL.ii. L2

D

I,

F

e
1
3
i
i


MARVELLOUS REPOSITORY. *                                   MI5CITIEVOIJS MON TY~'.

which was unknown to mortal vision, lie had the
air of a gigantic horse-fly, ma~qnerading in the
guise of a sophomore, and was probably the King
Fly of the world. Uis large goggle eves protru(led
from their sockets like a lobster's, and burned like a
living coal, so as to illuminate the whole vicinity'
his nose w~is of prodigious length, resembling in
shape, the bill of a horse-fly; and a tremendous Imir
of yellow whiskers garnished his throat and chin,
and proceeded up his temples until they met a
white hat turned out with gre en, which was cock-
ed on one side of his head. The remainder of his
dress consisted of a light cOat with long skirts, which
hung about him like the wings of a ~vasp, a buff vest3
and a pair of bottle-green small clothes encasing
long slender limbs, which projected outward like the
hind legs of a grasshopper. Leaping from his seat,
he proceeded straight to the bar-room, whither the
whole party had retreated, "Give me some drink,"
he cried, in the buzzing tone of a horn-bug, at the
same time cracking his whip till all rang again. A
jug of' J-Iollands was eagerly handed him by mine
host, who had taken refuge behind the grating of
the bar. The stranger emptied it at ~draught, and
spitefully tossed the jug at mine host's head, who
(lodged and fell backwards into a barrel-cover filled
with treacle to catch flies. "And now," exclaimed
he, snapping his eyes till they glowed like a furnace,
"and now'Tor old aunt Beck." Springing into his
~hair, he cracked his whip and vanished in the
smoke of it. Before the Major had scrambled out
of his fly-trap, or his companions had recovered the
use of speech, the whole village was paralysed bya
tremendous crash which shook the buildings to their
foundations, and filled the air with liquid tire. For
a moment it seemed as if the earth was rent asun-
der and its internal fires were bursting up the cre-
vice. WPen they recovere~l from the shock, the
whole populat:ou peeped out from their retreats v~ ith
fear and doubt. A few light clouds were scudding
I ~ti

1*~

eiis!ract~dlv alhwart the sky, and there arose on the
breeze ~(1 ~ ati(1 busy hum of in~eet~, like unto the
swarnii~ g oF a 1 hou'~and hives: hut gradually it died
away aid a11 was still.
The n~Nt morning the sun shine merrily thro-ugh
a pure aid serene atruo1)hPre, and- the villagers, on
venturi n~ out of door~, found ~very thing as usual
save the dwelling of Becky Mullen, which was raz-
ed to the ground. As for the By-Maker, she was
heard of no more for many years, and Deacon Rose-
bug was certain she had departed to a state of ever-
lasting torment. Nevertheless, she was at length
discovered in a fashionable slop shop at the North
end of Bo4on, and some credulous people aff~cte4l
to believe that the wonderful apparition of the King
Fly was no other than her dashing nephew, Morde-
cai Mullen the tailor.

MISCHIEvous MONKEYS.
MR. FORBEs, in his Oriental Memoirs, states
Ahe following curious facts :-On his arrival at Dhu-
boy, while the durbar was repairing, he resided in a
house, the back part of which was separated by a
narrow court from that of a principal Hindoo; this
being a shady side, he usually retired to aiveranda
there during jhe heat of the afternoon; and reposed.
on a sofa with his book. Here small pieces of mor-
tar and tiles frequently fell about him, to which he
Imid no attention, till one day the annoyance became
considerable, and a blow from a larger piece of the
than usual, made him turn to discover the cause"
the opposite roof was covered with monkeys; they
had taken a dislike to his complexion, and had com-
menced a system of hostilities which left the govern
or no alternative but that of changing his lodgings;
for, he says, he could neither make reprisals nor ex~
I ~7

---ees


SUPERSTITiONS OF NEW-ENGLAND.
SUPERSTITIONS OF NEw-ENGLAND.

eMARvELLoUs REPOSIT-ORY'.
pect quarter. One very singular use is made of thigh
active tribe at JIhuboy. Duelling and boxing are
equally unknown among the Hindoos; th~e tongue,
however, in their quarrels, makes amends for the in-
activity of the hands, and vituperation, as in our
own vulgar tongue, seeks to stigmatize the object of
abuse, by disparaging his nearest relation; but it
does not, as with us, confine its reproaches to the
mother of the offending party; wife, sister, and
daughter, all come in for their share of the slander-.
Here it is that the Hindoo's sense of honour is vul-
nerable, such ani affront can only be wiped out by
the retort discourteous; and he who fails in this, or
disdains to employ-it, has recourse to the monkeys
instead of the lawyers. The tiles in Hindostan are
not fastened on the roof with mortar, but laid regu-
larly one over the other; just before the wet season
commences they are all turnedl and adjusted; being
placed in order then they keep the house dry while
the rains last; during the other eight months it mat
ters not if they are misplaced. It is when they ha e
just been turned, and the first heavy rain is hourly
expected, that the monkeys are called in. ~I'he in-
jure d person goes by night to the house of his adver
sary, and contrives to strew a quantity of rice or
other- grain over the -roof. -The monkeys speedily
discover it,and crowd to pick it up; they find that
much has fallen between the tiles, and make no
scruple of nearly unroofing the house-when no
workmen can be procured to repair the mischief-.
Down comes the rain, soaks through the floor, and
ruins the furniture and the depositories of grain,
which are generally made of unbaked clay, dried1
and rubbed over with cow-dung,.
-128

IN that almost insulated part of the state of Massa-
chusetti, called Old Colonm/, or Plydouth Colony,
and particularly in a small village adjoining the
shire town, there may be found the relics of many
old customs and supeCrstitions, which would be
amusing, at least to the antiquary. Among others
of less serious cast, there was, fifteen years ago, one
which, on account of its peculiarity and its conse-
quences, I bieg leave to mention.
It is well known to those who are acquainted with
that section of our country, that nearly'one half of
its inhabitants die of a consumption, occasioned by
the chilly humidity of their atmosphere, and the
Long prevalence of"asterly winds. The inhabitants
of the village to which I alude were peculiarly ex-
posed to this scourge; and I have seen, at one time,
one in every fifty of its inhabitants gliding down to
the grave with all the certainty which characterizes
this insidious foe of the human family.
There was fifteen years ago, and is perhaps at this
time, an opinion prevalent among the inhabitants
of this town, that the body of a person who had
died of a consumption, was, by some supernatural
means, nourished in the grave, from the body of
some one living member of the family; and that,
during the life of this person, the body retained in
the grave, all the fullness and freshness of life and
health.
This belief was strengthened by the , ircumstance,
that whole families frequently fell a pr~y to this ter-
rible disease. Of one large family in this town, con-
Listing of fourteen children, and their venerable pa-
rents, the mother and the youngest son only remain-
ed--the rest within a year of each ether had died of
a consumption.
Within two months from the death of the thir-
'39        129


I

MARVELLOUs REPOSITORY'.

teenth child, anaamiable girl of about 16 years of age,
the bloom, owhich characterized the whole of this
family, was seen to fade from the cheek of the last
supporter of the heart-smitten mother, and his broad
flat chest was occasionally convulsed by that power-
ful deep toned rough which attends the consump-
tion in our Atlantic states.      .    .,
At this time, as if to snatch one of this family from
an early grave, it was resolved, by a few of the in.
habitants of the village, .to test the truth of this tra-
dition which I have mentioned, and which the cir-
cumstances of this afflicted family seemed to confirm.
I should have added that it was believed that if the
body, thus unnaturally nourished in the grave,
should be raised and turned over in the coffin, its
depredation upon the survivor would necessarily
cease. Trhe consent of the mother being obtained,
it was agreed that four persons, attended by the sur-
viving and complaining brother, should, at sunrise
the next day, dig up the remains of the last buried
sister. At the appointed -hour, they attended in the
burying yard, and having, with much exertion, re-
moved the earth, they raised the coffin and placed it
upon the ground; then, displacing the flat lid, they
lifted the covering from her face, and discovered
what they had, indeed, anticipated but dreaded to
declare.-Yes, I saw the visage of one who had long
been the tenant of a silent grave, lit up with the
brilliancy of youthful health.-The cheek was full to
dimpling;- and a rich profusion of hair shaded her
cold forehead, while some of its richest curls floated
upon her unconscious breast. The large blue eye
had scarcely lost its brilliancy, and the living full-
ness of her lips seemed almost to say, ",Ioose mec and
let me go."
In two weeks the brother, shocked with the spec-
tacle he had witnessed, sunk under his disease-.
The another survivedl scarcely a year, and the long
range of sixteen graves is pointed out to the stranger
130:o1

'THE UNCONSCIOUs POET

as an evidence of the truth of the belief of the in-
nabitants.
-The following lines were written on a recollection
of the above shocking scene:

0, fair was her cheek as I knew it
-VWhen the rose all its colours there brought;
And that eye,-did a tear then bedew it?
It giea m'd like the herald of thought.
She bloom'd, though the shroud was around her;
Her locks o'er her cold bosom wave,
As if the stern monarch had crown'd her
TIhe fair, speechless queen of the grave.
But what lends the grave such a lustre?
O'er her cheek what such beauty had shed?
His life-blood, who bent there, had nurst h'ir-
The living was food for the dead!

IN the year 1758, John Wilson, a young man of'
Slender education, was condemned to suffer death
for a riot. The contrition he evinced for the crime
he had committed, with his youth and good charaic-
ter, induced his Majesty, on the representation of
several respectable persons, to extend the most amig
ble prerogative of the crown, the royal mercy. Iln a
few hours after the reprieve'reached the rejfentant'
confrict, he poured forth the effusions of his gr eful
181        .

1

2 ~

THE UNCONSCIOUS POET.

I saw her, the grave sheet was round her,
Months had past since they laid her in clay,
Yet the damps of the tomb could not wound her,
The worms had not seized on their prey.


F

Mt'd{VEI1bOUS REPOSITORY.

Iwart, in the following verses, which he wrote with
his own hand, though it was never known that he
had ever attempted any thing of the kind before~
And live I yet, by Power divine?
And have I still my course to run?
Again brought l~ack in its decline,
'rhe shadow of my parting sun?
Wondering I ask, is this the breast,
Struggling so late with grief and paint
The eyes which upward looked for rest,
And dropt their wearied lids again?
The recent horrors still appear:
Oh, may they never cease to awe!
Still be the King of Terrors near,
Whom late in all his pomp I saw.
Torture and grief prepared his way,
And pointed to a yawning tomb;
Darkness behind eclipsed the day,
And checked my forward hopes to come
But now the dreadful storm is o'er,
Ended at last the doubtful strife!
And, living, I the hand adore,
That gave me back again my life.
God of my life, what just return
Can sinful (lust and ~shes give?
I only live my sins to mourn,
To love my God, I only live.
To thee, benign and sacred Power,
I consecrate my lengthen'd days
While, marked with blessings, ev'r'y hour
Shall speak thy co-extended praise.
i8~2

THIE

FLYING DUTCHMAN.

Ouu ship, after touching at the Cape, went out
again, and soon losing sight of the Table Mountain,
1)egan to be assailed by the impetuous attacks of the
sea, which is well known to he more formidable
there than in most parts of the known ocean. The
day had grown dull and hazy, and the breeze, which
had formerly blown fresh, now sometimes subsided
almost entirely, and then recovering its strength, for
a short time, and changing its direction, blew with
temporary violence, and died away again, as if exer-
cising a melancholy caprice. A heavy swell began
to come from the south-east. Our sails flapp&amp;
against the masts, and the ship rolled from side to
side, as heavily as if she had been water-logged.
There was so little wind that she would not steer.
At two P. M. we had a squall, accompanied by
thunder and rain. The seamen, growing restless,
looked tinxiously a-head. They said we would have
a (lirty night of it, and that it would not be worth
while to turn into their hammocks. As the second
mate was describing a gale he had encountered oft'
Cape Race, Newfoundland we were suddenly taken
all a-back, and the blast came upon us furiously
We continued to scud under a double-reefed main-
sail and foretop-sail till dusk; but, as the sea ran
high, the captain thought it safest to bring her to.
The watch on deck consisted of four men, one of
whom was appointed to keep a look-out a-head, for
the weather was so hazy, that we could not see two
VOL. U.   M                  I3~

1~

:24


I

MARVELLOPS REPOSITORY.

cables' length from the bows. This man, whose
name was Tom Willis, xvent frequently to the bows,
as if to observe something; and when the others call-
ed to him, inquiring what he was looking at, he
would give no definite answer. They, therefore,
went also to the bows, and appeared startled, and at
first said nothing; but presently one of them cried,
"William, go call the watch."
Thc seamen, having been asleep in their ham-
mocks, murmured at this unreasonable surhmons,
and called to know how it looked upon deck. To
which Tom Willis replied, "Come up and see.
What we are mingling is not on deck, but a-head."
On hearing this, they ran up without putting on
their jackets, and when they came to the bows, there
was a whispering.
One of them asked, "Where is she? I do not see
her." To which another replied, "The last flash
of lightning showed there was not a reef in one of
her sails; but we, who know her history, know that
all her canvas will never carry her into port."
By this time, the talking of the seamen had
brought some of the passengers on deck. They
could see nothing, however, for the ship was sur-
rounded by thick darkness, and by the noise of the
dashing waters, and the seamen evaded the ques..
tions that were put to them.
At this juncture the chaplain came on deck. He
was a man of grave, and modest demeanour, and was
much liked among the seamen, who called him Gen-
tie George. He overheard one of the men asking
another, "If he had ever seen the Flying Dutchman
before, and if he knew the story about her?" To
which the other replied, "I have heard of her beat-
ing about in these seas. What is the reason she
never reaches port?"
The first speaker replied, "They give different rea-
sons for it, but my story is this: 'She was an Amster-
dam vessel, and sailed from that port seventy years
ago. Her master's name was Vanderdecken. lie
I ~i4

TILE FLYING DUTCHMAN.
was a staunch seaman, and would have his own way,
in spite of the devil. For all that, never a sailor un~
der him had reason fo complain; though how it is on
board with them now, nobody knows. The story is
this: that in doubling the Cape, they were a long
day trying to weather the Table Bay, which we saw
this morning. However, the wind head~cl them,
and went against them more and more, and Vander..
Thicken walked the deck, swearing at the wind. Just
after sunset, a vessel spoke him, asking him if he
did not mean to go into the bay that night. Van der-.
decken replied, 'May 1 be eternally d-d if I do,
though I should beat about here till the day of judg-
menU' And to be sure, Vanderdecken never did go
into that bay; for it is believed that he continues to
beat about in these seas still, and will do so long
enough. This vessel is never seen but with foul
weather along with her."
To which another replied, "We must keep clear
of her. They say that her captain mans his jolly
boat, when a vessel comes in sight, and tries hard to
get along-side, to put letters on hoard, hut no good
comes to Ihem who have communication with him."
Tom Willis said, "There is such a sea between
us at present, as should keep us safe from such
visits."
To which the other answered, "We cannot trust
to that if Vanderdecken sends out his men."
Some of this conversation having been overhead
by the passengers, there w~s a commotion among
them. In the mean time, the noise of the waves
against the vessel could scarcely be distinguished
from the sounds of t he distant thunder. The wind
had extinguished the light in the binnacle, where
the compass was, and no one could tell which way
the ship's head lay. The passengers were afraid to
ask questions, lest they should augment the secret
sensation of fear which chilled every heart, or
learn any more than they already knew. For while
they attributed their ag~tat~on of mind to the state
1~5

G b

.~ ~
4

}
2
(
4
-1
-

f i
F
9


MARVELLOUS REPOSITORY.
of the weather, it was sufficiently perceptible that
their alarms also arose from a cause which they did
not acknowledge.
The lamp at the binnacle being re-lighted, they
perceived that the ship lay closer to the wind than
she had hitherto done, and the spirits of the passen-
geTs were somewhat revived.
Nevertheless, neither the tempestuous state of the
atmosphere nor the thunder had ceased; and soon a
vivid flash of lightning showed the waves tumbling
around, and, in the distance, the Flying Dutchman
scudding furiously before the wind, under a j~1'ess of
canvas. The sight was but momentary, but it was
sufficient to remove all (loubt from the minds (if the
passengers. One of the men cried alouC, "There
she goes, top-gallants and all."
The chaplain had brought up his pi'ayC2-bOOk, in
order that he might draw from thence something to
fortify and tranquilize the minds of the rest. There-
fore, taking his seat near the binnacle, so that the
light shone upon the white leaves of the hook, he, in
a solemn tone, read out the service for those distress
ed at sea. The sailors stood round him with folded
arms, and looked as if they thought it would he of
little use. But this served to occupy the attention
of those on deck for a while.
In the mean time, the flashes of lightning becom-
ing less vivid, ~howed nothing else, far or near, hut
the billows weltering r~nd the vessel. The sailors
seemed to think that they had not yet seen the worst,
but confined their remarks and prognosticationS to
their pwn circle.
At this time, the captain, who had hitherto re-
mained in his birth, came on deck, and with a gay
arid unconcerned air, inquired what was the cause
of the general dread. He said he thought they had
already seen the worst of the weather, and wondered
that his men had raised such a hubbub ahout a cap-
ful of wind. Mention being made of the Flying
Dutchman, the captain laughed He said, "he
136

THE FLYING DUTCHMAN.
would like very much to see any vessel carrying top~
gallant sails in such a night, for it would be a sight
worth looking at." The chaplain, taking him b~'
one of the buttons of his coat, drew him aside, an~
appeared to enter into serious conversation with him.
While they were talking together, the cal)tain
was heard to say, "Let us look to our own ship, and
not mind such things;" and accordingly, he sent a
man aloft, to see if all was right about the fore top..
sail yard, which was chafing the mast with a loud
noise~.
It was Tom Willis wh6 went lip; an(l when he
came (lown, he said that all was tight, and that he
hoped it would soon get clearer; and that they would
see no more of what they were most afraid of.
The captain and first mate were heard laughing
loudly together, while the chaplain observed, that it
would he better to repress such unseasonable gaiety.
The second mate, a native of Scotland, whose name
was Duncan Saunderson, having attende(1 one of the
University classes at Aberdeen, thought himself too
wise to believe all that the sailors said, anti took part
with the captain. He jestingly told Tom Willis to
l)orrow his grandam's spectacles the next time he was
sent to keep a look-out a-head. Tom walked sulki-
ly away, muttering that he would nevertheless trust
to his own eyes till morning, and accordingly took
his station at the bow, and appeared to watch as at-
tentively as before.
The sound of talking soon ceased, for many re-
turned to their births, and we heard nothing hut the
clanking of the ropes upon the masts, and the burst-
ing of the billows a-head, as the vessel successively
took the seas.
But after a considerable interval of darkness,
gleams of lightning began to re-appear. Tom Wril~
us suddenly called out, "Vanderdecken, again
Vanderdecken, again! I see them letting do ivn~a
All who were on deck ran to the bows. The next
137

I h

'1


MARvELLOUS- REPOSITORY.

flash of lightning shone far and wide over the raging
sea, and showed us not only the Flying Dutchman
at a distance, but also a boat coming from her with
four men. The boat was within two cables' length
of our ship's side.
The man who first saw her ran to the captain, and
asked whether they should hail her or not. 'I he
captainl, walking about in great agitation, madeC no
reply. The first mate cried, "Who's going to heave
a rope to that boat ?" The men looked. at leach
other, without offering to do any- thing. The boat
had come very near the chains, when Torn Willis
called out. " What do you want? or what the (de-
vil has blown you here in such weather?" A pierc-
ing voice from the boat, replied in English, " We
want to speak with your captain." The captain
took no notice of this, and Vanderdecken's boat
having come close along side, one ,of the men came
Upon (leck,"and appeared like a fatigued and weath-
er-beaten seaman, holding some letters in, his hand.
Our sailors -all dre0W back. The chaplain, how
ever, looking stedfastly upon him, went forward a
few steps, and asked, "What is the purpose of this
visit ?"
The stranger replied, " We have long been kept
here by foul weather, and Vanderdecken wishes to
send these letters to his friends in Europe."
Our captain now came forward, and said, as firmly
as he could, "1I wish Vanderdecken woultl put his
letters on board of any other vessel rather than
mine."
" We have triell many a ship," replied the strang-
er, " but most -of them refuse our letters."
Upon which, Tom Willis muttered, " It will be
best for us if we do the same, for they say there is
sometiines a sinking weight in your paper."
The stranger tookt no notice of this, but asked
where we were from. On being told that we were
from Portsmouth, he said, as if with strong feeling,
" Would that you had rather been from Amsterdam!
188

I

THE FLYING DUTCHMAN.

Oh that we saw it again !-we must see our friends
again." .When he uttered these words, the men
.who were in the boat below, wrung their hands, and
cried, in a piercing tone, in Dutch, "Oh that we
saw it aga in ! We hare been long here beating
about: but we must see our friends again !"
The chaplain asked the stranger, " How long have
you been at sea?"
He replied, " We have lost our count; for our al-
muanack was blown overboard. Our ship, you see,
is there still; so why should you ask how long we
have been at sea? for Vanderdecken only wishes to
write home and comfort his friends."
To which the chaplain replied, "Your letters, I
fear, would be of no use in Amsterdam, even if they
were delivered, for the persons to whom they were
addressed are probably no longer to be found there,
except under very ancient green turf in the church-
yardl."
The un welcome stranger then wrung his hands
and appeared to weep; and replied, " It is impossi-
ble. We cannot believe you. We have been long
driving about here, but country nor relations cannot
be so easily forgotten. There is not a rain-drop in
the air hut feels itself kindred to all the rest, and they
fall back into the sea to meet with each other again.
How then, can kindred blood be made to forget
where it- came from? Even our bodies are part of
the ground of Holland; and Vanderdecken says, if
he were once come to Amsterdam, he would
rather be changed into a stone post, well fixed into
the ground, than leave it again, if that were to die
elsewhere. But in the mean time, we only ask you
to take these letters.
The chaplain, looking at him with astonishment,
said, " This is the insanity of natural affection,
which rebels against all measures of time and dis-
tance."
The stranger continued, " Here is a letter .from
our seC ond mate, to his dear and only remaining
189'

'.4

~ji

t

h


MARVELLOUS REPOSITORY.

friend, his uncle, the merchant who lives in the se
cond house on Stuncken Yacht Quay."
He held forth the letter, but no one would ap4
preach to take it.
Tom Willis raised his voice, and said, "One of our
men, here, says that he was in Amsterdam last sum~
mer, and he knows for certain, that the street called
Stuneken Yacht Quay was pulled down sixty years
ago, and now there is only a large church at that
place."
The man from the Flying Dutchman said, "It is
impossible; we cannot believe you. Here is another
letter from myself, in which I have sent a bank note
to my dear sister, to buy some gallant lace, to make
her a high head-dress."
Tom Willis hearing this said, "It is most likely
that her head now lies under a tombstone, which
will outlast all the changess of the fashion. But on
~irhat house is your bank note?"
The stranger replied, "On the house of Vander-
brucker and Company."
The man of whom Tom, Willis had spoken said,
"I guess there will now be some discount upon it,
for that banking-house was gone to destruction forty
years ago; and Vanderbru6kei' was- afterwards mrs~
sing.-But to remember these things is like raking
up the bottom of an old canal."
The stranger called out passionately, "It is rrn~
possible--We cannot believe it! It is cruel to say
such things to people in our condition. There is a
letter from our captain himself, to his much-beloved
and faithful wife, whom he left at a pleasant summer
dwelling, on the border of the Haarlemer Mer. She
promised to have the house beautifully painted and
Q'ilded before he came back, and to get a new set of
rooking-glasses for the principal chamber, that she
might see as many images of Vanderdecken, as if
she had six husbands at once."
The man replied, "There has been tim~e enough
for her to have had six husbands since then; but
140'

4b

THE FLYING DUTCHMAN.
were she alive still, there is no rear that' Vander
decken would ever get home to disturb her."
On hearing this, the stranger again shed tears,
and said if~they would not take the letters he would
leave them; and looking a round, he offered the par.
cel to the captain, chaplain, and to the rest of' the
crew successively: but each drew back as it was
offered, and put his hands behind his back. He then
laid the letters upon the deck, and placed upon them
a piece of iron, which was lying near, to prevent
them from being blown away. Having done this,
he swung himself over the gang-way, and went into
the boat~
We heard the others speak to him, but the rise of
a sudden squall prevented us from distinguishing his
reply. The boat was seen to quit the ship's side,
an(l in a few moments there was no more traces of
her than if she had never been there. The sailors
rubbed their eyes, as if doubting ~~hat they had wit.
messed but the parcel still lay upon deck, and pros'-
ed the reality of all that had passed.
Duncan Saunderson, the Scotch mate, asked the
captain if he should take them up and pu.t them in
the letter-bag. Receiving no reply, he would have
lifted them if it had not been for Tom 'Willis, who
pulled him back, saying that nobody should touch
them.
In the mean time, the captain went down to the
cabin, and the chaplain having followed him, found
him at his bottle-case, pouring out a large drarri of
brandy. The captain, although somewhat discon-
certed, immediately offered the glass to him, saying,
Here, Charters, is what is good in a cold rught."
The chaplain declined drinking any thing, and the
captain having swallowed the bumper, they both re~
turned to the deck, where they found the seamen
giving their opinions concerning what should be
done with the letters. Tom Willis proposed to pick
them up on a harpoon, and throw them overboard.
Another speaker said,' I have always heard it as-
141

3


MARVELLOUS REPOSITORY.
serted, that it is neither safe to accept them votun
tarily, nor, when they are left, to throw them out of
the ship."
"Let no one touch them," said the carpenter.
" The way to do with these letters from -the Flying
Dutchman is to case them upon deck, by nailing
boards over them, so that if he sends back for them)
they are still there to give him."
The carpenter went to fetch his tools. During his
absence the ship gave so violent a pitch, that the
piece of iron slid off the letters, and they were whirl-
ed overboard by the wind, like birds of evil omen
whirring through the air. There was a cry of joy
among the sailors, and they ascribed the favourable
change which soon took place in the weather to our
having got quit of Vanderdecken. We soon got un-
der weigh again. The night watch being set, the
rest of the crew retired to their births.

CROSS READINGS IN VERSE.

F&amp;ery line in this piece is taken from standard poetic.
cat writers, and each read separately makes good
sense ; the humour lies in the combination.
The ,flow'ry May now from her green lap throws-s
Cato's long wig, flower'd gown and lacquer'd chair-
With Scythians expert in darts and bows-.
A satire next, and then a bill of fare.
Starting and shiv'ring in th' inconstant wind-- -
The weary world lies sunk in soht repose---
Anid shuts the gates of mercy on mankind--
And sometimes gallops o'er a courtier's nose.
The sun himself with gloomy clouds opprest-
Renounces four legs, and starts up on two-.
142

CROSS READINGS.
'Twas then his threshold first receiv'd a guest--
Who stays on shore, and toys with-Sall and Sue.
Each feathered warbler tunes his various lay-
Transfo m' to combs the spekleds andathe white..
On spacious wings with sundry colours dight.

So have I seen on some bright summer's day-..
The vulgar boil, the learned roast an egg--
Where rougher climes a nobler race display-
-A dedication is-a wooden leg.
On some fond breast the parting soul relies-.
Brushing with hasty steps the dews away-
With waddling gait, and voice like London cries.-
Nor stops for one bad cork his butler's pay.

Full many a flower is born to blush unseen-
For thunder mars small beer and weak discourse--.
And hurls the vengeance of the laws on gin-
To prove, like Hudibras, a man's no horse.

But now the clouds in airy tumult fly-..
Their teeth will be no whiter than before--
While England lives, their fame can never die--
For still new harlequins remain in store.
Forthwith the huge portcullis high updrew-
In shape no bigger than an agate stone--
Whose feet came wand'ring o'er the nightly dew--
And boldly fought to save the British throne.
Th' applause. of list'ning senates to command-.-
Let me extol a cat on oysters fed--
His wig all powder, and all snuff his band--
O'er the dark trees a yellower verdure shod.
143

4

*1

I'

Like some fair flow'r the early spring supplies-.
Satan himself will toll the parish bell---
Where in a box the whole creation lies--
By much too wise to walk into a well.

I

.mege4.-


MARVELLOUS REPOSIT-ORY.

Now Night in vestments rob'd of deepest dye-
With new-born Day had gladden'd mortal sight--..
To whom Ulysses with a pleasing eye-
With head advanc'd, and pinions stretch'd for flighty
Ab! think, thou favour'd of the powers divine.-.. ,
On the forefinger of an alderman-
To grace thy manes, and adorn thy shrine-
And pierce aloft in air the soaring swan.
Friendship! mysterious cement of the soul !--
Arm'd with a pudding that might please a dean-.-
Scours wild along, disdaining all controul-
And murders fops by whom she ne'er was seen.
So when a lion shakes his dreadful mane-
From low St. James' up to high St. Paul--
Those stars that grace the wide celestial plai--
For very want can never build a wall.

THE BUTTERFLY.

THE Butterfly seemed to the ancients, the soul,
As it left its frail covering behind;
And spurning the worm, and its earthly controul,
It soared with the freedom of mind.
Apt emblem, indeed, is the grovelling worm,
Of the sordid pursuits of this earth;
It dies, and the light and rich penciled form
Of the butterfly starts into birth.
Thus man in his mortal enclosure confined,
Stoops downward nor dreams of above,
'Till his spirt, released, on the heavenward wind*,
Ascends to the mansions of love.
144

FROM JONATHAN UNWELL, 01? NEW-YORK,
TO MR. HERMAN KRAUFF.

SIR,-Agreeable to my promise, I now relate to
you all the particulars of the lost man and child,
which I have been able to collect. It is entirely
owing to the humane interest you seemed to take in
the report, that I have pursued the iqiyt  h
following result.                iqiyt      h
You may remember that business called me to
Boston in the summer of 1820. I sailed in the packet
to Providence, and when I arrived there, I learned
that every seat in the stage was engaged. I was
thus obliged either to wait a few hours, or accept a
scat with the driver, who civilly offered me that ac-
commodation. Accordingly I took my seat by his
side, and soon found him intelligent and comimuni-
cative. When we had travelled about ten miles,
the horses suddenly threw their ears on their necks,
as' flat as a hare's. Said the driver, " have you a
surtout with -you?" " No," said I, " why do you
ask ?" "You will want one soon," said he. "Do
you observe the ears of all the horses?" " Yes,"
and was just about to ask the reason. " They see
the storm breeder, and we shall see him soon." At
this moment there was not a- cloud visible in the fir-
mament. Soon after a small speck appeared in the
road. "There," said my companion, "comes the
storm breeder; he always leaves a Scotch mist be
VOL. ii.   N        BI0O     145

m

As
Ti;J
j1~ ~
Ti
I

P E TER R U GG,

T HE MISSING MVAN.


-PETER RUGG.

MARVELLOUS REPOSITORY.

hind him. By many a wet jacket I do remember bib-i.
I suppose the poor fellow suffers much himself, much
more than is known to the world." Presently a man
with a child beside him, with a large black horse,
and a weather-beaten chair, once built for a chaise
body, passed in great haste, apparently at the rate
of twelve miles an hour. He seemed to grasp the
reins of his horse with firmness, and appeared to an-
ticipate his speed. He seemed dejected, and looked
anxiously at the passengers, particularly at the stage
driver and myself. In a moment after he passed us,
the horses' ears were up, and bent themselves for-
ward so that they nearly met. "Who is that man,'
said I, "he seems in great trouble." " Nobody
knows who he is, but his person and the child ai
familiar to me. I have met him more than a hut
dred times, and-have been so often asked the way tt
Boston by that man, even when he was travelling
lireetly from that town, that of late I have refused
~ny communication with him; and that is the rea-
son he gave me sucha fixed look." "But (loes he
never stop any where?" "I have never known him
to stop any where, longer than to inquire the way to
Boston; and let him be where he may, he will tell
you he cannot stay a moment, for he must reach
Boston that night."
WTe were now ascending a high hill in Walpole;
and as we had a fair view of the heavens, I was
rather disposed to jeer the driver for thinking of his
surtout, as not a cloud as big as a marble could be
discerned. "Do you look," said he, "in the diree.
ion whence the man came, that is the place to look;
the storm never meets him, it follows him." We
presently approached another hill, and when at the
height, the driver pointed out in an eastern diree..
tion a little black speck about as big as a hat.
"There said he is the seed storm; we may possibly
reach Polley's before it reaches us, but the wanders
e.r and his cli ild will go to Providence through rain,
thunder, and lightning." And now the horses, as
146

I -
',6

though taught by instinct, hastened with increased
speed. The~ little black cloud came on rolling over
the turnpike, and doubled and trebled itself in all
directions. The appearance of this cloud attracted
the notice of all the passengers; for after bjt had
spread itself to a great bulk, it suddenly became
more limited in circumference, grew more compact,
(lark, and consolidated. And now the successive
flashes of' chain lightning caused the whole cloud to
appear like a sort of irregular net work, and dis-
played a thousand fantastic images. The driver be-
spoke my attention to a remarkable configuration in
the cloud: he said every flash of lightning near its
centre discovered to him distinctly the form of a
man sitting in an open carriage drawn by a black
horse. But in truth, I saw no such thing. The
man's fancy was doubtless at fault. It is a very
common thing for the imagination to paint 'for the
senses, both in the visil5le and invisible world.
In the mean time the distant thunder gave notice
of a shower at hand; and just as we reached Polley's
tavern the rain poured down in torrents. It was
soon over, the cloud passing in the direction of the
turnpike towards Providence. In a few moments
after a respectable looking man in a chaise stopped
at the door. The man and child in the chair having
excited some little sympathy among the passengers,
the gentleman was asked if he had observed them.
He said he had met them, that the man seemed be-
wildered, and inquired~the way to Boston; that he
was driving at great speed, as though he expected
to outstrip the tempest; th~it the moment he had
I)assed him, a thunder clap broke distinctly over the
man's head, and seemed to envelope both man and
child, horse and carriage. "I stopped," said the
gentleman, "supposing the lightning had struck
him, but the horse only seemed to loam up and in-
crease his speed, and as well as I could judge he
travelled just as fast as the thunder cloud." While
this man was speaking, a pedlar, with a cart of tip
147


MARVELLOUS REPOSITORY,.
merchandize came up, all dripping; and, on Th
questioned, he said he bad met that man and car-
riage, within a fortnight, in four different states.;
that at each time he had inquired the way to Boston',
and that a thunder shower, like the present bad
each time deluged his wagon and his wares, setting
his tin pots, 8Ec. afloat, so that he had determined to
get marine insurance done fbr the future. But that
which excited his surprise most, was the strange
conduct of his horse, for that long before he could
distinguish the man in the chair, his own horse stood
still in the road, and flung back his ears. " In
short," said the pedlar, " I wish never to see that
man and horse again; they do not look to me as
though they belonged to this world." -
This was all I could learn at that time; and the
occurrence soon after, would have become with me,
" like one of those things which had never happen-'
ed," had I not, as I stood recently on the doo-step
of Bennett's hotel in Hartford, heard a man say,
" there goes Peter Rugg and his child! he looks wet
and weary, and farther from Boston than ever." I
was satisfied it was the same man I had seen more
than three years before; for whoever has once seen
Peter Rugg can never after be deceived as to his
identity. "Peter -Rugg !" said I, " and who is Pe-
ter Rugg ?" " That," said the stranger, " is more
than any one can tell exactly. He is a famous tra-
veller, held in light esteem by all innholders, for he
never stops to eat, drink, or sleep. I wonder why
the government do not employ him to carry the mail."
" Aye," said a bystander, " that is a thought bright
only on one side; how long would it take in that
case to send a letter to Boston, for Peter has already,
to my knowledge, been more than twenty years tra-.
velling to that place." " But,"- said I, " does the
man never stop any where, does he never converse
with any one? I saw the same man more than three
years since, near Providence, and I heard a strange .
story about him, Pray sir, give me some account
148

I

PETER RUTGG

I

of this man." " Sir," said the stranger, "those
who know the most respecting that man, say the
least. .I have heard it, asserted that heaven some-
times sets a mark on a man, either for judgment or a
-trial. Under which Peter Rugg now labours, I can
not say; therefore I am rather inclined to pit than
to judge." ."You speak like a humane man,"' said I,
"and if you have known him so long, I pray you
wil give me some account of him. Has his appear
ance much altered in that time?" " Why, yes
He looks as though he never ate, drank, or slept; and
his child looks older than himself, and he looks like
time broke off from eternity, and anxious to gain a
resting place." "And how does his horse look?"
said I. " As for his horse, he looks fatter and gayer,
and shows more animation and courage, than he did
twenty years ago. The last time Rugg spoke to me
he inquired how far it was to Boston. I told him
just one hundred miles."  "  h, said he, " how
can you deceive me so? it is cruel to mislead a tra-
veller. I have lost, my way; pray direct me the
nearest way to Boston." I repeated it was one hun-
dred miles. "How can you say so?" said he, "I
was told last evening it was but fifty, and I have
travelled all night." " But,'' said I, "you are now
travelling from Boston. You must turn ,back."
" Alas," said he, " it is all turn back ! Boston shifts
with the wind, and plays all around the compass.
One man tells me it is to the East, another to the
West; and the guide posts too, they all point the
wrong way." " But will you not stop and rest,"
said I. " You seem wet and weary." " Yes," said
he, "it has been foul weather since 1 left home."
"Stop then, and refresh yourself." " I must not
stop, I must reach home to-night if possible: though
I think you must be mistaken in the distance to Bos-
ton.'' He then gave the reins to his horse, which
he restrained with difficulty, and disappeared in a
moment. A few days afterwards I met the man a
little this side of Claremont, winding around the
VOL. xi.   N 2               149


MARvELLOUs REPOSITORY.

PETER RUGG

hills in Unity, at the rate, I believe, of twelve miles
an hour."
"Is Peter Rugg his real name,. or has he accident-
ally gained that name ?" " I know not, but presume
he will not deny his name, you can ask him, for-see,
he has turned his horse, and, is passing this way."
In a moment, a dark coldoured, high spirited horse
approached, and would have passed without stop-
ping, but I had resolved to speak to Peter Rugg, or
whoever the man might be. Accordingly I stepped
into the street, and as the horse approached, I made
a feint of stopping him. The man immediately
reined in his- horse. " Sir," said I, "may I be so
bold as to inquire if you are not Mr. Rugg? for I
think I have seen you before." " My name is Peter
Rugg," said he, "I have unfortunitely lost my way;
I am wet and weary, and will take it kindly of you
to direct me to Boston." "You live in Boston, do
you, and in what street?" "In Middle-street."
" When did you leave Boston ?" " I cannot tell
precisely; it seems a considerable time." " But
howv did you and your child become so wet ? It has
not rained here to-day." f' It has just rained a
heavy shower up the river. But I shall not reach
Boston to-night if I tarry. Would you advise me to
take the old road, or the turnpike ?" '' Why, the
old road is one hundred and seventeen miles, and
the turnpike is ninety-seven.". " How can you say
so? you impose on me; it is wrong to trifle with a
traveller; you know it is but forty miles from New-
buryport to Boston." " But this is not Newbury-
port; this is Hartford." "Do not deceive me sir-.
Is not this town Newburyport, and the river that I i
have been following, the Merrimac?" "No, Sir,
this is Hartford, and the river, the Connecticut."
He wrung his hands and looked incredulous.
" Have the rivers, too, changed their courses, as the
cities have changed places? But see, the clouds are
gathering in the south, and we shall have a rainy
night. Ah, that fatal oath!l" He would tarry no
150

longer, his impatient horse leaped off, his bind
flanks rising like wings, he seemedlto devour all be-
fore him, and to scorn all behind.
1 had now, as I thought, discovered a clue to the
history of Peter Rugg, and I determined, the next
time my business called me to Boston, to make a fur..
ther inquiry. Soon after, I was enabled to collect
the following particulars from Mrs. Croft, an aged
lady in Middle-street, who has resided in Boston
during the last twenty years. Her narration is this:
.-u The last summer a person, just at twilight, stop-
ped at the door of the late Mrs. Rugg. Mrs. Croft,
on coming to the door, perceived a stranger, with a
child by his side, in an old weather-beaten carriage,
with a black- horse. The stranger asked for Mrs.
Rugg, and was informed that Mrs. Rugg liad died
in a good old age, more than twenty years before
that time. The stranger replied, ''How cahi you
deceive me so? do ask Mrs. Rugg to step to the
door.' ' Sir, I assure you Mrs. Rugg has not lived
here these nineteen years; no one lives here but my-
self, and myname is Betsey Croft.' The stranger
paused, and looked up and down the street, and said,
' though the painting is rather faded, this looks like
my house ' 'Yes,' said the child, ' that is the
stone before the door, that I used to sit on to eat my
bread and milk.' 'But,' said the stranger, 'it
seems to be on the wrong side of the street. Indeed,
every thing here seems to be misplaced.
The streets are all changed, the people are all
changed, the town seems changed, and what is
strangest of all, Catherine Rugg has deserted her
husband and child. Pray,' continued the stranger,
'has John Foy come home from sea? he went a
long voyage, he is my kinsman. If I could see him,
he could give me some account of Mrs. Rugg.'
' Sir,' said Mrs. Croft,'' I never heard of John Foy.
Where did he live?' ' Just above here, in Orange
.Tree Lane.' 'There is no such place in this
neighbourhood.' 'What do you tell me! Are the
151


M~RVELLOTJS REPOSITORY
streets gone? Orange Tree Lane is at the head of
Hanover-street, near Pemberton's hill.' 'There
is no such *Lane now.' 'Madam! you cannot ~e
serious. Bat you douktless know my brother Wil-
liam Rugg. He~ lives in Royal Exchange Lane,
near King-street.' 'I know of no such lane; and I
am sure there is no such street as King-street in this
town.' 'No such street as King-street? Why
woman! you mock me. You may as well teif me
there is no King George. However, madam, you
see I am wet and weary, I must find a resting place.
I will go to Hart's tavern, near the market.'
'XVhich market, sir? for you seem perp1exe~.1; we
have several markets.' 'You know there is but
one market near the rrown dock.' '0, the the old
market, but no such person has kept there these
twenty years.' Here the stranger seemed discon-
certed,. and uttered to himself quite audibly,
'Strange mistake, how much this looks like the
town of Boston! It certainly has a great resem-
blance to it; but I perceive my mistakee nbw. Some
other Mrs. Rugg, some other Middle-street.' Then
said he, 'madam, can you direct me to Boston?'
'Why this is Boston, the city of Boston, I know of no
other Boston.' 'City of Boston it may be'; but it is
not the B~ston where I live. I recollect now, I
came over a bridge instead of a ferry. Pray What
bridge is that, I just came over?' 'It is Charles
River Bridge.' 'I perceive my mistake, there is a
ferry between Boston and Charlestown, there is no
bridge. Ah, I perceive my mistake, if I was in Bos-
ton my horse would carry me directly to my own door.
But my horse shows, by his impatience that he is in a
strange place. Absurd, that I should have mistaken
this I)lace for the old town of Boston! it is a much
finer city than the town of Boston. It has been
built long since Boston. I fawcy it must lie at a dis-
tanc~ from this city, as the good woman seems igno-
rant of it.' At these words his horse began to chafe,
and strike the pavement with his fore feet; the
15~

;

PETER RUGG.
stranger seemed a little bewildered, and sai(l, 'ho
home to-night,' and giving the reins to his horse,
passed up the street, and I saw no more of him."
It was evident that the generation to which Peter
Ilugg belonged had passed ~iway.
This was all the account of Peter Rugg I could
obtain from Mrs. Croft; but she directed me to an
elderly man, Mr. James Felt, who lived near her,
and who had kept a record of the principal occur-
rences for the last fifty years. At my request, she
sent for him; and, after I had related to him the ob-
ject of my inquiry, Mr. Felt told me he had known
Rugg in his youth; that his disappearance had
caused some surprise; hut as it sometimes happens
that men run away, sometimes to be rid of others,
and sometimes to be rid of themselves; and Rugg
took his child with him, and his own horse and chair;
and as it did not appear that any creditors made a
stir, the occurrence soon mingled itself in the stream
of oblivion; and jI~ugg and his child, horse an(l chair,
were soon forgotten. "It is true," said Mr. Felt,
"sundry stories grew out of Rugg's affair, whether
true or false Icannot tell; but stranger things have
happened in my day, without even a newspaper no-
tice." "Sir," said I, " Peter Rugg is now living.
I have lately seen Peter Rugg and his child, horse
and chair; therefore, I pray you to relate to me all
you know or ever heard of him." "Why, my
friend," said James Felt, "that Peter Rugg is now
a living man I will not deny; but that you have seen
Peter Rugg an(l his child, is impossible, if you mean
a small child, for Jenny Rugg, if living, must be at
least-let me see-Boston massacre, 1770-Jenny
Rugg was about ten years old. Why, sir, Jenny
Rugg, if living, must be more than sixty years of age.
rI~hat Peter Rugg is living is highly probable, as he
was only ten years older than myself; and I was
only eighty last March; and I am as likely to live
twenty years longer as any man." Here l.perceiv-
ed that Mr. Felt was in his dotage, an(l I despaired
I 53


MARVELLOUS REPOSITORY.                                    PETER RUGG

of gaining any intelligence from him, on wnich I
could depend.
I took my leave of Mrs. Croft, and proceeded to
my lodgings at the Marlborough Hotel.
If Peter Rugg, thought I, has been travelling
since the Boston massacre, there is no reason why
he should not travel to the end of time. If the pre-
sent generation know little of him, the next will
know less, and Peter and his child will have no hold
on this world.
In the course of the evening, I related my adven-
ture in Middle-street. "Ha!" said one of the corn-
p any, smiling, "do you really think you have seen
Peter Rugg? I have heard my grandfather speak of
him, as though he seriously believed his own story."
"Sir," said I, "pray let us compare your grand-
father's story of Mr. Rugg, with my own." "Peter
Rugg, sir, if my grandfather was worthy of credit,
once lived in Middle-street, in this city. He was a
man in comfortable circumstances, had a wife and
one daughter, and Was generally esteemed for his so-
ber life and manners. But unhappily his temper, at
times was altogether ungovernable, and then his
language was terrible. In these fits of passion, if a
door stood in his way, he would never do less than
kick a panel through. He would sometimes throw
his heels over his head, and come down on his feel,
uttering oaths in a circle; and thus in a rage, he
was the first who performed a somerset, and did
- what others have since learned to do for merriment
and money. Once, Rugg was seen to bite a ten-
penny, nail in halves. In those days, every body,
both men and boys, wore wigs; and Peter, at these
moments of violent passion, ould become so pro-
fane that his wig would rise u from his head. Some
said it was on account of is terrible language.
Others accounted for it in a mo e philosophical way,
and said it was caused by the expan&amp;on of his scalp;
as violent passion, we know, will swell the veins and
expand the head. While these fits were on him,
154

Rugg had no respect for heaven or earth. Except
this infirmity, all agreed that Rugg was a good sort
of a man; for when his fits were over, nobody was so
ready to commend a placid temper as Peter.
"It was late in autumn, one morning, that Rugg
in his own chair, with a fine large bay horse, took
his daughter and proceeded to Concord. On his re-
turn, a violent storm overtook him. At dark, he
stopped in Menotomy, (now West-Cambridge,) at
the door of a Mr. Cutter, a friend of his, who urged
him to tarry the night. On Rugg's declining to stop
Mr. Cutter urged him vehemently. 'Why, Mr.
Rugg,' said Cutter, 'the storm is overwhelmii~ig you;
the night is exceeding dark; your little daughter
will perish; you are in an open chair, and~the tem-
pest is increasing.' 'Let the storm increase,' said
Rugg, with a fearful oath, 'I will see home to-night,
in spite of the last tempest! or may I never see home.'
At these words, he gave his whip to his high spirited
horse, and disappeared in a moment. But Peter
Rugg did not reach home that night, nor the next;
nor, when he became a missing man, could he ever
he traced beyond Mr. Cutter's ih Menotomy. For
a long time after, on every dark and stormy night,
the wife of Peter Rugg would fancy she heard th~
crack of a whip, and the fleet tread of a horse, and
the rattling of carriage, passing her door. The
neighbours too, heard the same noises, and some
said they knew it was Rugg's horse; the tread on
the pavement was perfectly familiar to them. This
occurred so repeatedly, that at length the neigh-
l~our~ watched with lanterns, and saw the real Peter
Rugg, with his own horse and chair, and child sit-
ting beside him, pass directly before his own door,
his head turned towards his house, and himself mak-
ing every effort to stop his horse, but in vain. The
next day, the friends of Mrs. Rugg exerted them-
selves to fin.d her husband and child. They inquir-
ed at every public house and stable in town; but it
did not appear that Rugg made any stay in Bostoi~
155

PETER RUGG


MARVELLOUS REPOSITORY.

No one, after Rugg had passed his own door, could
give any account of him; though it was asserted by
some that the clatter of Rugg's horse and carriage
over the pavements shook the houses on both sides of
the streets. And this is credible, if indeed Rugg s
horse and carriage did pass on that night. For at this
day, in manyof the streets, a loaded truck or team in
passing will shake the houses like an earthquake.
However, Rugg's neighbours never afterwards
watched; some of them treated it all as a delusion,
and thought no more of it. Others, of a different
opinion, shook their heads and said nothing. Thus
Rugg, and his child, horse and chair, were soon for-
gotten; and probably many in the neighbourhood
never heard a word on the subject.
"Ther~e was indeed a rumour, that Rugg after-
wards was seen in Connecticut, between Suflield
and Hartford, passing through the country like a
streak of chalk. This gave occasion to Rugg's
friends to make further inquiry. But the more they
in~4uired, ihe more they were baffled. If they heard
of Rugg one* day in Con necticut,-the next, they
heard of him winding round the hills in New-Hamp-
shire; and soon after, a man in a chair, with a small
child, exactly answering the description of Peter
Rugg, would be seen in Rhode-Island, inquiring the
way to Boston.
"But that which chiefly gave a colour of mystery
to the story of Peter Rugg, was the affair at Charles-
town bridge. The toll-gatherer asserted that some-
times, on the darkest, and most stormy nights, when
no object could be discerned, about the time Rugg
was missing, a horse and wheel carriage, with a
noise equal to a troop, would at midnight, in utter
contempt of the rates of toll, pass over the bridge.
This occurred so frequently, that the toll-gatherer
resolved to attempt a discovery. Soon after, at the
usual time, apparently the same horse and carriage
approached the bridge from Charlestown square.
The toll-gatherer, prepared, took his stand as near
I ~6

*1

PETER RUGG.

the middle of the bridge as he dared, with a large
three-legged stool in his hand. As the appearance
passed, he threw the stool at the horse, but heard
nothing, except the noise of the stool skipping across
the bridge. The toll-gatherer, on the next day, as-
serted that the stool ivent directly through the body
of the horse' and he persisted in that belief ever
after. Whether Rugg, or whoever the person was,
ever passed the bridge again, the toll-gatherer
would never tell-~and when questioned seemed
anxious to waive the subject. And thus, Peter
Rugg and his child, horse and carriage, remain a
mystery to this day."
This, sir, is all that I could learn of Peter Rugg in
Boston.
FURTHER ACCOUNT OF PETER RUGG.

BY JONATHAN DUINWELL.

IN the autumn of 1825, I attended the races at
Richmond in Virginia; as two new horses of great
promise were run, the race-ground was never better
attended, nor wa~ expectation ever more deeply ex-
cited. The partisans of Dart and Lightning, the
two race-horses were equally anxious, and equally
dubious of the result. To an indifferent spectator
it was impossible to perceive any difference~ They
were equally beautiful to behold, alike in colour and
height, and as they stood side by side, they measur-
ed from heel to fore 'feet within half an inch ~of each
other. The eyes of each were full, prominent and
resolute, and when at times they regarded each
other, they assumed a lofty demeanour, seemed to
shorten their necks, project their eyes; and rest
their bodies equally op their four hoofs. They cer-
tainly discovered signs of intelligence, and displayed
VOL. ii.  0                 157

t
1

i


MARVELLOUS REPOsITORY.                                         PEE    UG

a courtesy to each other, unusual even with states.
men. It was now nearly 12 o'clock, the hour of ex.-
peCctationl, doubt and anxiety. The riders mounted
their horses; and so trim, light, and airy, they sat on
the animals, they seemed a part of them. The spec-
tators, many deep, in a solid column, had taken
their places; and as many thousand breathing sta-
tues were there as spectators. All eyes were turned
to Dart and Lightniing, and their two fairy riders.
There was nothing to disturb this calm, except a
busy woodpecker on a neighbouring tree. The sig-
nal was given, and Dart and Lightning answered
the signal with ready intelligence. At first they
proceed on a slow trot, then they quicken to a can-
ter, and then a gallop., Presently they sweep the
plain; both horses lay themselves,. flat on the ground
their riders bending fom'ward, and resting their chins
between their horses' ears. Had not the ground
been perfectly level, had there been any undulation,
the least rise and fall, the spectator, every moment,
for a moment, would have lost sight of both horses
and riders. While these horses, side by side, thus
appeared, flying without wings, flat as a hare, and
neither gained on the other, all eyes were diverted
to a new spectacle. Directly in the rear of Dart
and Lightning, a'majestic black horse,'of unusual-
size, drawing an old weather-beaten chair, strode
over the plain; ahd,'although he appeared to make
no effort, for he maintained a steady trot, before
Dart and Lightning approached the goal, the black
horse and chair had overtaken the racers, who, on
perceiving this new competitor pass them, threw
back their ears and suddenly stopped in their course.
Thus neither Dart nor Lightning carried away the
purse. The spectators, now, were exceedingly cu-
nious to learn whence came the black horse and
chair. With many it was the opinion that nobody
was in the vehicle. Indeed this began to be the pre-
valent opinion, for those at a short distance, so fleet
was the black horse, could not easily discern who.
15~8

V

m

mammm

if any body was in the carriage. But both the
riders, whom the black hoi-se passed very nearly,
agreed in this particular, that a sad looking man,
with a little girl, was in the chair. -When they
stated this, I was satisfied it was Peter Rugg. But
what caused no little surprise, John Spring, one of
the riders, he who rode Lightning, asserted that no
earthly horse, without breaking his trot, could in a
carriage outstrip his race horse: and he persisted
with some passion, that it was not a horse, he
was sure .it was not a horse, but a large black
ox. "What a great black ox can do," said John,
'"I cannot pretend to say; but no race horse, not
even Flying Childers, could out-trot Lightning in
a fair race." This opinion of John Spring excit-
ed no little merriment, for it was clearly obvious to
every one, that it was a powerful black horse that in-
terrupted the race; but John Spring, jealous of
Lightning's reputation as a horse, would rather have
it thought that any other beast, even an ox, had been
the victor. However, the horse-laugh at John
Spring's expense was soon suppressed; for as soon as
Dart and Lightning began to breath more freely, it
was observed that both of them walked deliberately
to the tract of the race ground, and putting their
heads to the earth, they suddenly raised them again
and began to snort. They repeated this, till John
Spring said, "these horses have discovered some-
thing strange; they suspect foul play; let me go and
talk with Lightning." And he went up to Light.-
nling and took hold of his mane; and Lightning put
his nose toward the ground, and smelt of the earth
without touching it, and then reared his head very
high, and snorted so loudiy, that the sound echoed
from the' next hill. Dart did the same. - John
Spring stooped down to examine' the spot where
Lightning smelt. In a moment he raised himself
up, and the countenance of the man was changed;
his strength failed him, and he sidled against -Light-
ning. At length John Spring recovered from his
159+

PETER. RUGG.


MAYiVELLOUS REP0STTORY.                                    PETER RUGG.

stupor, and exclaimed, "it was an ox! 1 told you it
was an ox, no real horse ever yet beat Lightning."
And now, on a close inspection of the black horse's
tracks in the path, it was evident to every one, that
the fore feet of the black horse were cloven. Not-
withstanding these appearances, to me it was evi-
dent that the strange horse, was in reality a horse.
Yet when the people left the race ground, I presume
one half of all those presentwould have testified
that a large black ox had distanced two of th&amp;fieet-
est courses that ever trod the Virginia turf. So un-
certain are all things called historical facts.
While I was proceeding to my lodgings, ponder-~
ing on the events of the day, a stranger rode up lo
me, and accosted me thus, "I think your name is
Dunwell, sir?" "EYes sir," I replied. "Did I not
see you a year or two since, in BosUon, at the Marl-
borough Hotel?" "Very likely, sir, for I was
there." "And you heard a story about one Peter
Rugg?" "I recollect it all," said I. " The ac-
count you heard in Boston must be true, for here he
was to-day. The man has found his way to Vir..
ginia, and for aught that appears, has been to Cape
Horn. I have seen him before to-day, but never saw
him travel with such fearful velocity. Pray, sir,
where d6es Peter Rugg spend his winters? for I
have seen 'him only in summer, and always in foul
weather, except at this time." I replied, ~ No one
knows where Peter Rugg spends his winters; where
or when he eats, drinks, sleeps, or lodges. He seems
to have an indistinct idea of day and night, time and
space, storm and sunshine. His only object is Bos-
ton. It appears to me that Rugg's horse has some
control of the chair: arid that Rugg himself is, in
some sort, under the control of his horse." I then
inquire(l of the stranger, where he first saw the nian
and horse. "Why, sir," said he, "in the summer
of 1824, 1 travelled to the North for my health, and
soon after I saw you at the Marlborough Hotel, I x'e~
turned homeward to Virginia, and, if my memory is
160

I

it

PETER RUGG.

correct, I saw this man and horse in every State be..
tween here and Massachusetts. Sometimes he would
meet me, but oftener overtake me. He never spoke
hut once, and that once was in Delaware. On his
approach he checked his horse with some difficulty.
A more leautifA horse I never saw; his hide was as
fair, and rotund, and glossy as the skin of a Congo
beauty. When Rngg's horse approached mine, he
reined in his neck, bent his ears forward until they
met, and looked my horse' full in the face. My
horse immediately withered into half a horse; his
hide curled up like a piece of burnt leather, spell
bound, he was fixed to the earth as though a nail
had been drove through each hoof. "Sir," said
Rugg, "perhaps you are travelling to Bosto nand
if so, I should be happy to accompany you, for I have
lost my way, and I must reach home to-night. See
how sleepy this little girl looks; poor thing, she is a
picture of patience." "Sir," said I, "it is impossi-
ble for you to reach home to-night, for you are in
Concord in the county of Sussex, in the state of Del-
aware." "What do you mean," said he, "by state
of Delaware? If I was in Concord, that is only
twenty miles from Boston, and my horse Lightfoot
could carry me to Charlestown Ferry in less than
two hours. You mistake, sir; you are a stranger
here; this town is nothing like Concord. I am well
acquainted with Concord. I went to Concord when
I left Boston." "But," said I, "you are in Con-
cord, in the state of Delaware." "What do you
n~ean by state I" said Rugg. "Why one of the
United States." "States," said he, in a low voice,
"the man is a wag, and would persuade me I. am in
Holland." Then raising his voice, he said, "you
seem, sir, to be a gentleman, and I entreat you to
mislead me not; tell me quickly, for pity's sake, the
right road to BostoR, for you see my horse will swal-
low his bitts for he has eaten nothing since I left
Concord." "' Sir," said I, "this town is Concord,
Concord in Delaware, not ~Concord in Massachu-
VOL. ii.   0 2      BII      161


MARVELLOTIS REPOSITORY.                                     PETER RUGG.

is

setts; and you are now five hundred miles from Bbs..
ton." Rugg looked at me for a moment, more in
sorrow than resentment, and then repeated, "five
hundred miles! unhappy man, who would have
thought he had been deranged; but nothing is so de-
ceitful as appearances, in this world. Fivehundred
miles! this beats. Connecticut River." What he
meant by Connecticut River, I know not; his horse
broke away, and Rugg disappeared in a moment."
I explained to the stranger the meaning of Rugg's
expression, "Connecticut River," and the incident
respecting him, that occurred at Hartford, as I stood
on the door stone of Mr. Bennett's excellent hotel.
We both agreed that the man we had seen that day
was the true Peter Rugg.
'Soon after, I saw Rugg again, at the toll-gate on
the Turnpike, between Alexandria and Middle-
burgh. While I was paying the toll, I observed to
the toll-gatherer, that the drought was more severe
in his vicinity than farther south. "Yes," said
he, "the drought is excessive; but if I had not
heard yesterday, by a traveller, that the man
with the black horse was seen in Kentucky a
day or two since, I should be sure of a shower in a
few minutes."' I looked all around the hc~rizon, and
could not discern a cloud that could hold a pint of
water. "Look, sir," said the toll-gatherer, "you
perceive to the Eastward, just rising that hill a small
black eloud not bigger than a black-berry, and while
I am speaking it is doubling and tripling itself, and
rolling up the turnpike steadily, as if its sole design
was to deluge some object." "True," said 1, "1 do
perceive it; but what connexion is there between a
thunder cloud and a man and horse?" "More than
you imagine, or I can tell you; but stop a moment,
~r, I may need your assistance. I know that cloud,
I have seen it several times before; and can testify
to its identity. You will soon see a man and black
horse under it." While he was yet speaking, true
enough, we began ~to hear the distant thunder, and
162

soon the chain lightning performed all the figures of
a country dan~e. About a mile distant, we saw the
man and black horse under the cloud; but before he
arrived at the toil-gate, the thunder cloud had spent
itself, and not even a sprinkle fell near us. As the
man, whom I instantly knew to be Rugg, attempted
to pass, the toll-gatherer swung the gate across the
road, seized Rugg's horse by the reins, and demand-
ed two dollars. Feeling some little regard for Rugg,
I interfered, and began to question the toll-gatherer,
and requested him not to be wroth with the man.
The toll-gatherer replied he had just cause, for the
man had run his toll ten times, and moreover that the
horse had discharged a cannon ball at him, to the
great danger of his life; that the man had always be-
fore approached so rapidly that he was too quick for
the rusty hinges of the toll-gate; but that now he
would have full satisfaction~ Rugg looked wistfully
at me, and said, " I entreat you, sir, to delay me not, I
have found at length the (lirect road to Boston, and
shall not reach hoxpe before night if you detain me:
you see I am dripping wet, and ought to change my
clothes." The toll-gatherer then demanded why he
had run his toll so many times ? ~' Toll! why," said
PLugg, "do you demand toll? there ~is no toll to pay
on the king's highway." "King's highway! do~you
not perceive this is a turnpike ?" "Turnpike! there
are 'no turi~pikes in Massachusetts." "That may
be, but we have several in Virginia." "Virginia!
do you pretend I am in Virginia?" Rugg then ap-
pealing to me, asked how far it was to Boston? Said
I,"Mr. Rugg, I perceive you are bewildered, and
am sorry to see you so far from home; you are, in-
deed, in Virginia." "You know me then, sir, it
seems~ and you say I am in Virginia. Give me leave
to tell you~, sir, you are the most impudent man alive;
for I was never forty miles from Boston, and 1 never
saw a Virginian in my life. This beats Delaware!"
"Your toll, sir, your toll !" "I will not pay you a
penny," said Rugg, "you are both of you highway
163

1'

I

PETER RUGG.


MARVELLOUS REPOSITORY.

robbers ; there are no turnpikes in this country.
Take toll on the king's highway! Robbers take toll
on the king's highway." Then in a low tone he
said, "here is evidently a conspiracy against me;
alas,~ I shall never see Boston! The highways refuse
rue a passage, the rivers change their courses, and
there is no faith in the compass" But Rugg's horse
had no idea of stopping more than one minute, for in
the midst of this altercation; the horse, whose nose
was resting on the upper bar of the turnpike gate,
seize(l jt between his teeth, lifted it gently off its
staples, and trotted off With it. The toll-gatherer
conlounded, strained his eyes after his gate. Let
him go, said I, the horse will soon drop 'your., gate,
and you will get it again.
I then questioned the toll-gatherer respecting his
knowledge of this man~ and he related the following
particulars. " The fix~st time," said he, "that man
ever passed this toll-gate was in the year 1~O6, at the
moment of the great eclipse. I thought the horse
was frightened at the sudden darkness, and conclud-
ed he had run away with the man. But within a
few days 'after, the same man and horse repassed
with equal speed, without the least respect to the
toll-gate, or to me, except by a vacant stare. Some
few years afterward, during the. late war, I saw the
same man approaching again, and I resolved to check
his career. Accordingly I stepped into the middle
of the road, and stretched wide both my arms, and
cried, stop sir, on your peril! At this, the man said,
'now Lightfoot, confound the robber!' at the same
time, he gave the whip liberally to the flank of his
horse, who bounded off with sue h force, that it ap-
peared to me, two such horses, give them a place to
stand, would check the diurnal motion of the earth.
An ammunition wagon which had just passed on to
Baltimore, had dropped an eighteen pounder in the
road; this unlucky ball lay in the way of the horse's
heels, and the beast, with the sagacity of a demon,
clinched it with one of his heels and hurled it behind
164

PETER RUGG.
him. I feel dizzy in relating the fact, but SO nearly
did the ball pass my head that the wind thereof blew
off my hat, and the ball bedded itself in that gate post,
as you m~y see, if you will cast your eye to the post.
I have permitted it to remain there in memory of the
occurrence, as the people oC Boston, I am told, pre-
serve the eighteen pounder, which is now to be seen
half bedded in Brattle-street church."
I then took leave of the toll-gatherer, and promised
him, if I saw or heard of his gate, I would send him
notice.
A strong inclination had possessed me to arrest
Rugg, and search his pockets, thinking great dis.-
coveries might be made in the examination; but what
I saw and heard that d~iy convinced me that no hu-
man force could detain Peter Rugg against his con-
sent. I therefore determined if I ever saw Rugg
again to treat him in the gentlest manner.
In pursuing my way to New-York, I entered on
the turnpike in Trenton; and when I arrived at
New-Brunswick, I perceived the road was newly
McAdainised. The small stones had ju4 been laid
thereon. As I passed this piece of road, I observed
at regular distances of about eight feet, the stones
entirely displaced from spots as large as the circum-
ference of a half-bushel measure. '17 his singular ap-
p earance induced me to inquire the cause of it at the
turnpike-gate. "Sir," said the toll-gatherer, "I
wonder not at the question, but I am unable to give
you a satisfactory answer. Indeed, sir, I believe 1 ani
bewitched, and that the turnpike is under a spell of
enchantment; for what appeared to me last night
cannot be a real transaction; otherwise a turnpike
gate is a useless thing." "I do not believe in witch-
craft or enchantment," said I, "and if you will re-
late circumstantially what happened last night, I will
endeavour to account for it by natural means." "You
may recollect, the night was uncommonly dark.
Well, sir, just after I had closed the gate for the
night, down the turnpike, as far as my eye could
165

I
A

u . ....w..a s


MARVELLOUS REPOSITORY*.

reach, I beheld, what at first appeared to me, two ar
mies engaged. The report of the musketry, and the
flashes of their firelocks were incessant and continu-
ous. As this strange spectacle approached me with
the fary of a tornado, the noise increased, and the
appearance rolled on in one compact body over the
surface of the ground. The most splendid fireworks
rose out of the earth, and encircled this moving spec-
tacle. The divers tints of the rainbow, the most
brilliant dies that the sun lays on the lap of spring,
added to the whole family of gems,.could not display
a more beautiful, radiant and dazzling spectacle than
accompanied the black horse. You would have
thought all the stars of heaven had met in merriment
on the turnpike. In the midst of this luminous con-
figuration sat a man, distinctly to be seen, in a mis-
erable looking chair drawn by a black horse. 'Ihe
turnpike-gate, ought, by the laws of nature, and the
laws of the state, to have made a wreck of the whole,
and have dissolved the enchantment; but no, the
horse without an effort passed over the gate, and
drew the man and chair horizontally after him with-
out touching the bar,. This was what I call enchant-
ment-what think you, sir?" " My friend," said I,
" you have grossly magnified a natural occurrence.
The man was Peter Rugg, on his way to Boston. It
is. true, his horse travelled with unequalled speed,
but as he reared high his fore-feet, he could not help
displacing the thousand small stones on which he
trod, which flying in all directions struck each other.
and resounded and scintillated. The top bar of
your gate is not more than two feet from the ground,
and Rugg's horse at every vault could easily lift the
carriage over that gate." This satisfied Mr. Mc-
Doubt; and I was pleased at that occurrence, for
otherwise Mr. McDoubt. who is a worthy .man, late
from the Highlands, might have added to his calen-
der of superstitions. Having thus disenchanted the
McAdamised road, and the turnpike gate, and also
166

K

I

PETER RUGG.

Mr. McDoubt, I pursued my journey homeward to
New-York.
Little did . expect to see or hear any thing further
of Mr. Rugg, for he was now more than twelve hours
in advance of me. I could hear nothing of him-on
my way to Elizabethtown. I therefore concluded
that during the past night he had turned off from the
turnpike, and pursuedl a westerly direction. But
ust before I arrived at Powles's IHook, I observed a
considerable collection of passengers in the ferry
boat, all standing motionless, and steadily looking at
the same object. One of the ferrymen, Mr. Hardy,
who well knew me, observing my approach, delayed
a minute, in order to afford me a passage, and coming
up, said, "~ Mr. Dunwell, we have got a curiosity on
board, that would puzzle Dr. Mitchell." " Some
strange fish, I suppose, has found its way into the
Hudson." " No," said he, "it is a man, who looks
as if he had lain hid in the ark, and had just now ven-
-tured out. He has a little girl with him, the coun-
terpart of himself; and the finest horse you ever saw,
harnessed to the queerest looking carriage that ever
was made." " Ah, Mr. Hardy," said I, " you have
indeed, hooked a prize; no one before you could
ever detain Peter Rugg long enough to examine
him." " Do you know -the man ?" said Mr. Hardy.
"No, nobody knows him, but every body has seen
'him. Detain him as long as possible, delay the boat
under any pretence; cut the gear of the horse; do
any thing to detain him." As I entered the ferry-
boat, I was struck at the spectacle before me; there
indeed, sat Peter Rugg and Jenny Rugg in e chair,
and there stood the black horse, all as quiet as lambs,
surrounded by more than fifty men and w  men, who
seemed to have lost all their senses but o e. Not a
motion, not a breath, not a nestle. TheW were all
eye. Rugg appeared to them to be a man not of tis
world; and they appeared to Rugg a strange genera-
tion of men. Rugg spoke not, and they spoke not,
nor was I disposed to disturb the calm; satisfied, to
167-


MARVELLOUS REPOSITORY

reconnoitre Rugg in a state of rest. Presently, Rugg
ol)sel'ved in a low voice, addressed to nobody, "A
new contrivance, horses instead of oars, Boston folks
are full of notions." It was plain that Rugg was of
Dutch extract-he had on three pair of small clothes,
called in former days of simplicity, breeches, not
much the worse for wear; but time had prove(l the
fabric, and shrunk each of them more than the other,
so that they discovered at the knees, their different
qualities and colours. His several waistcoats, the
flaps of all which rested on his knees, gave him an
appearance rather corpulent. His capacious drab
coat would supply the stuff for half a dozen modern
ones. The sleeves were like meal-bags-in the cuffs
of which you might nurse a child to sleep. His hat,
probably once black, now of a tan colour, was iien-
ther round nor crooked, but much in shape like the
one President Monroe wore on his late tour. This
dress gave the rotund face of Rugg an antiquated
dignity. The man, though deeply sun-burnt, did
not appear to be more than thirty years of age. He
had lost his sad and anxious look, was quite compos-
ed) and seemed happy. The chair in which Rugg
sat, was very capacious, evidently made for service,
and calculated to last for ages. The timber would
supply material for three modern carriages. This
chair, like a Nantucket coach, would answer for ev-
ery thing that ever went on wheels. The horse too,
was an object of curiosity-his majestic height, his
natural main and tail gave him a comman(llng ap-
pearance-and his large open nostrils indicated in-
exhaustible wind. It was apparent that the hoofs of
his fore feet had been split, probably on some newly
McAdamised road, and were now growing together
again; so that John Spring was not altogether in the
wrong.
How long this dumb scene would otherwise have
continued, I cannot tell. Rugg discovered no sign
of impatience. But Rugg's horse having been quiet
more than five minutes, had no idea of standing
16S

ii

PETER RUGO.

I

ii

idle; lie began to whinny, and in .a moment after,
with his right fore foot, he started a plank. Said
Rugg, "my horse is impatient, he sees the North
end. You must be quick, or he will be ungovernable."
At these words, the horse raised his left fore foot;
and when he laid it down, every inch of the ferry-
boat tremhled, Two men immediately seized Ru~g's
horse by the nostrils. The hor~e nodded, and both
of them were in the Hudson. While we were 1i~h-
rig up the i~en, the horse was perfectly quiet. "Frct
not the horse," said Rugg, "and he will do no harm.
lie is only anxious, like myself, to arrive at yonder
beautiful shore. He sees the North Church, and
smells his own stable." " Sir," said Ito Rugg, prac-
tisin~ a little deception, "pray tell me, foV 1 am a
stranger here, what river is this, and what cty is
that opposite? for you seem to be an inhabitant of
it." "This river, sir, is called Mystic River, and
this is Win nisimet ferry, we have retained the Indian
names, an(l that town is Boston. You must, indeed,
be a stranger in these parts, not to know that yonder
is Boston, the capital of the New-England provin-
ces." " Pray sir, how long have you been absent
from Boston?" "Why that 1 cannot exactly tell. I
lately went with this little girl of mine to Concord,
see my friends; and I am ashamed to. teil you in
returning lost the way, and have been travelling ever
since. No one would directt me right. It is cruel to
mislead a traveller. My horse, Lightfoot, has boxed
the compass, and it seems to me he has boxed it back
again. But, sir, you l)erceive my horse is uneasy,
Light foot, as yet, has given only a hint and a nod. I
cannot be answerable for his heels." At these words
Lightfoot reared his long tail, and snapped it as you
would a whip lash. The Hudson reverberated with
the sound. Instantly the six horses began to move
the boat. The Hud~ori Wd5 a sea of glass, smooth as
oil, not a ripple. The horses, from a smart trot, soon
pressed into a gallop; water now run over the gun
nel; the ferr~y-boat was soon buried in an ocean of
VOL. II.   P                  169

T
1

nr
2


MARVELLOUs .REPOSITORY.
foam, and the noise of the spray was like the roaring
of many waters. ~When we arrived at New-York,
you might see the beautiful white wake of the ferry
'boat across the Hudson.
Though Rugg refused to pay toll at turnpikes
when Mr. Hardy reached his hand for the ferriage,
Rugg readily put his hand into one of his many pock-
-ets, and took out a piece of silver, and handed it to
Hardy. "X What is this?" said Mr. Hardy. -"It is
thirty shillings," said Rugg. ." It might have once
been thirty shillings, old tenor," said Mr. Hardy,
" but it is not at present." "The money is good
English coin,'' said Rugg, " my grandfather brought
a bag of them from England, and he had them hot
from the mint." Hearing this, I approached near to
Rugg, and asked permission to see the coin. It was
a half crown, coined by the English Parliament,
dated i~n the year 1649. On one side " The Common-
wealth of England," and St. George's cross encir-.
cled with a wreath of laurel. On the other, " God
with us," and a harp and St. George's cross united.
I winked to Mr. Hardy, and pronounced it good, cur-
rent money; and said loudly, I would not permit the
gentleman to be imposed on, for I would exchange
the money myself. On this, Rugg spoke, " please to
give me your name, sir.". " My name is Dunwell,
sir," I replied. " Mr. Dunwell," said Rugg, " you
are the only honest man I have seen since I left Bos-
ton. As you are a stranger here, my house is your
home; dame Rugg will be happy to see her hus-
band's friend. Step into my chair, sir, there is room
enough; move a little, Jenny, for the gentleman, and
we will be in Middle street in a minute." Accord-
ingly I took a seat by Peter Rugg. " Were you nev-
er in Boston before ?" said Rugg." " No," said I
"Well, you will now see the queen of New-England,
a town second only to Philadelphia, in all North
America." " You forget New-York," said I. "Pob,
New-York is nothing; though I never was there, I
am told you might put all New-York in our Mill
170

PETER RUGG.

Pond. .No, sir, New-York I'assure you is but a sor
ry affair, no more to be compared to Boston than a
wigwam to a palace."
As Rugg's horse turned into Pearl street, I looked
Rugg as fully in the face as good manners would al-
low, and said, "sir, if this is Boston, I acknowledge
New-York is not worthy to be one of its suburbs."
Before we had proceeded far in Pearl street, Rugg's
countenance changed, he began to twitter under his
ears, his eyes trembled in their sockets; he was evi-
dently bewildered. " What is the matter, Mr. Rugg,
you seem disturbed." "'1This surpasses all human
comprehension; if you know, sir, where we are, I
beseech you to tell me." " If this place," I replied,
"is not Boston, it must be New-York." " No, sir, it
is not Boston; nor can it be New-York. How could
I be in New-York which is nearly two hundred miles
from Boston !" By this -time we had passed into
Broadway, and then Rugg, in truth, discovered a
chaotic mind. There is no such place as this in North
America, this is all the effect of enchantment; this is
a grand delusion, nothing real; here is seemingly a
great city, magnificent houses, shops and goods, men
and women innumerable, and as busy as in real life,
all sprung up in one night from the wilderness. Or
what is more 'probable, some tremendous convulsion
of nature has thrown London or Amsterdam on the
shores of New-England. Or, possibly, I miay be
dreaming, though the night seems rather long, but
before now I have sailed in one night to Amsterdam,
bought goods of Vandogger, and returned to Boston
before morning." At this moment a hue an d cry
was heard, "stop the madmen, they will endanger
the lives of~ thousands !" In vain hundreds attempted
to stop Rugg's horse; Lightfoot interfered with noth-
ing, his course was straight as a shooting star. But
on my part fearful that before night I should find nmy--
self behind the Alleghanies, I addressed Mr. Rugg in
a tone of entreaty, and requested him to restrain the
horse and permit me to alight. " My friend," said he,
171

I


MAflV~I.LOtJS DEPOSIT() flY.
" we shall he in Thwton before dark, and dame l~.ugg
~vilI he most exceeding glad to see us." " Mr. Ruo~ "
said 1, " von must excuse me, pray look to the west
see that thunder cloud swelling with rage, as if in
pursu it of us." " Ah," said Ru~g, " it is in vain to
attempt to escape, I know that cloud, it is collecting
new wrath to SpCn(l on my head." Ihen checking
Iii~ horse he permitted me to descen(l, saving, " fare-
well, Mr. Dunwell, I shall he happy to see you in
Boston, I live in ~Iiddle street."
It is uncertain in what direction Mi'. B u~g pur-
sued his course, after he disappearc(l in Broadway
but one thing is sufliciently known to every body,
that in course of two months, after he iva~ seen in
New York, he found his way most opportunely to
I3oIon.
It seems the estate of Peter Rugg had recently
esctwated to the Commonwealth of Massachusetts
for want of heirs; an(l the legislature ba(l ordered
the Solicitor General to advertise, and sell it at
public auction. happening to he in Boston at the
time, and observing his advertisement, which dc-
~criLed a considerable extent of land, I felt a kindly
curiosity to see the spot where llugg once lived.
Taking the advertisement in my hand, I wandered
a little way down Middle-street, and, without asking
a question of any one, when I came to a certain spot,
I said to myself, " '1'his is Rugg's estate, I will pro-
ceed no further, this niu4 be the spot; it is a coun-
terpart of Peter Rugg." The premises, indeed,
looked as if they had accomplished a sad 1irophesy.
Fronting on Middle-strcet, they extcn(le(l in the
rear to Ann-street, and embraced about half an acre
of land. It was not uncommon in former times to
have half an acre for a house lot; for an acre of land
then, in many f)arts of Bodon, was not more valuable
than a foot in some places at l)resent. The old nian~
sion hou~e had become powder-post, and been blown
away. One other building, urn nhabitett, 'toed orni-
nous, courting dilapidation. The street had been so
17~

PETER iRGG.

much raised, that the bed chamber had descended
to the kitchen, and was level with the street. The
house seeme(l con~ejous of its fate, and, as though
tired of standing there, the front was fast retreating
from the rear, and waiting the next south wind to
pr~~eet itself into the street. If the mo4 ~vary ani-
mals had sought a place of refuge, here they would
have rendezvoused. Here, under the ridge pole,
the crow would have perched in security, and in the
recesses below, you might have caught the fox and
the weasel asleep. The hand of destiny, said I, has
presse(l heavy on this spot; still heavier on the form-
er owners. Strange that so large a lot of land as
this should want an heir! Yet Peter Rugg, at this
day, might pass by his own door stone, and ask,
" who once lived there ~
The auctioneer, appointed by. the Solicitor, to
sell this estate, was a man of eloqr~ence, as many of
the auctioneers of Boston are. TJ occasion seem-
ed to warrant, and~is duty urged him to make a dis-
play. He address his audiemice as follows: " The
estate, gentlemen, which we offer you this day, was
once the property of a family now extinct. It has
escheated to the Commonwealth for wa-nt of heirs.
Lest any one of you should be deterredd from bidding
on so large an estate as this, for fear o~' a diTuted
title, I am authorized. by the Solicitor General, to
proclaim that the purchaer shall have the best of all
titles, a warranty deed from the Commonwealth. I
state this, gentlemen, because I know there is an
idle rumour in this vicinity, that one Peter Rugg,
the original owner of this estate, is still living.
This rumour, gentlemen, has no Ibundation, and can
have no foundation in the nature of things. It ori-
ginated, about two years since, from the incredible
story of one Jonathan Dunwell of New York. Mrs.
Croft, indeed, whose husband I see present, and
whose mouth waters (~r this estate, has counte-
nanced this fiction. But, gentlemen, was it ever
known that any estate, especially an estate f this
Voi~. ii.  P S2              173


MARVELLOUS REPOSITORY.
vaIn", lay unclaimed for nearly half a century, if
any heir, ever so remote, was existing? For, gen
Ilemen, all agree, that old Peter Rugg, if living,
would be at least, one hundred ~rears of age. It i~
said that he and his (laughter with a horse and chaise
were missed more than haifa century ago; and be-
cau~e they never returned home, forsooth, they must
be now living, and will, some (lay, come an(I claim
(his great estate. Such logic, gentlemen. never let
~o a good investment. Let riot this idl" story cross
the nob'e purpose of consigning these ruins to the
genius of architecture. If such a cont ing'ncy could
check the spirit of enterprise, farewell to ati iner(~an-
tile excitement. Your surplus money, jn~t"ad of re~
fre~hing your sleep with the golden (lream~ o~ new
sources of speculation, would turn to the yght ma cc.
A man's money, if not eu~ploved, serves obi~ lo dis-
(orb hi~ rest. ! .ook, then to the l)rosl)ect before
you. Here is half an ac4 of land, more than twen~
tv thousand square feet, a corner~ot, with wonderful
capabilities; none of your contl'acte(I lots of forty
feet by fifty, where, in dog (lays, you can breathe on-
ly through your scuttles. On the contrary, an archi-
tect cannot contemplate this extensive lot without
rapture, for here is room enough for his genius to
shame the temple of Solomon. 'I'hen, the prospect,
how commanding! rio the east, so near to the At-
lantic, that Neptune freighted with the select treas-
ures of the whole earth can knock at your door with
his trident. From the West, all the produce of the
river of paradise, the Connecticut, will soon, by the
blessings of steam, rail ways, and canah, paSS under
your windows; and thus, on this sj)ot, Neptune shall
marry Cere~, and Pomona from Roxhury, and Flora
from Cambridge, shall dance at the weddln(r
I' Gentlemen of science, men of taste, ye, of the
Literary Emporium; for I perceive many of you
present: to you, this is holy ground. If the spot over
which, in times past, a hero left only the print of a
footstep, is now sacred, of what price is the birth-
174

PETER RUGG.

lace of one, who, all the world knows was horn in
middle street, directly opposite to this lot; an(l who,
if his birth-place was not well known, would now be
claime(l by more than seven cities. To you, then,
the value of these premises must he inestimable4
For, crc long, there will arise in front view of the
edifice to be erected here, a monument, the wonder
and veneration of the world. A column shall spring
to the clouds; and on that column will be engraved
one word, that will convey all that is wise in intel-
lect, useful in science, good in morals, prudent in
('onn;el, an(l benevolent in princil)le; a name, when
livtn~-, the patron of the poor, the delight of the cot-
tage, and the admiration of kings; now dead, worth
the whole seven wise men of Greece. Need I tell
you his name? He fixed the thunder, and guided
the lightning.
"Men of the North End! Need I appeal to your
patriotism~ in order to enhance the value of this lot?
Phe earth affords no such scenery as this; there,
around that corner, lived James Otis; here, Samuel
Adams-the cc, Joseph Warren--and around that oth-
er coiner, Josiah Quincy. Here, was the birth-place of
Freedom; here, Liberty was born, and nursed, and
grew to manhood. Here, man was new created,
Here ts the nursery of Ame Bean In(Iependence-I
ann too modest--here comm nce dthe emancipation
of the world; a thousand generations hence, millions
of men will cross the Atlantic, just to look at the
North End of Boston. Your fathers,--what do I say?
Yoursel~'es, yes, this moment, I behold several at-
tending this auction ivho lent a hand to rock the cra-
dle of independence.
"Men of speculation! Ye who are deaf to every
thing except the sound of money, you I know, will
give me both of your ears, when I tell you the city of
Boston must have a piece of this estate in order to
widen Ann street. Do you hear me? do you all hear
me? I say the city must have a large piece of this
land in order to widen Ann street. What a chance'
17~

I.

1~.
It
S

1'


NARVELLOUS REPOSITORY.
The city scorns to take a man's land for nothing. It"
they seize your property, they are generous beyond the
' dreams of avarice. rrlle only oppression is, you are in
danger of being smothered under a load of wealth.
Witness the old lady who lately died of a broken
he art, when the Mayor paid her for a piece of her kitch-
en garden. Alithe faculty agreed that the sight'ofthe
treasurewhich the Mayor incautiously paid her ii~
dazzling dollars, warm from the mint, sped joyfully
all the blood of her body into her heart, and rent it
in raptures. Therefore, let him who purchases this
estate, fear his good fortune, and not Peter Rugg.
Bid then liberally, and do not let the name of Rugg
damp your ardour. i-low inuch will you give per foot
for this estate?" Thus spoke the auctioneer, arid
gracefully waved his ivory hammer. From fifty to
seventy-f~ve cents per foot, were offered in a few
moments. It laboured from seventy-five to ninety.
At length one dollar was offered. The auctioneer
seemed satisfied; and looking at his watch, said he
would knock off the estate in five minutes, if no one
offered more. There was a deep silence, during this
short period. While the hammer was suspended, a
strange rumbling noise was heard which arrested the
attention of every one. Presently, it was like the
sound of many shipwrights driving home the bolts of
a seventy-four. As the sound approached nearer,
some exclaimed, "the buildings in the new market
are falling in promiscuous ruins." Others said" no;
it is an earthquake, we perceive the earth joggle."
Others said" not so; the sound proceeds from flanover
street, and approaches nearer;" and this proved true,
for presently Peter Rugg was in the midst of us.
"Alas, Jenny," said Peter, "I am ruined; our
house has been burnt, and here are all our neigh-
bours around the ruins. Heaven grant your mother
4ame Rugg is safe." "They don't look like our
neighbours," said Jenny, "but sure enough our
house is burnt, and nothing left but the door stone,
and an old cedar post-do ask where mother is?"
176

'I,

PETERa rUGG.

In the mem time more than a thousand m~n had
surrounded Rugg, and his horse and chair: Yet nei4
thee Rugg, per'~onallv, nor his horse and carriage at-
trarted more attention than the auctioneer. The
confident look an(l searching eves of Rugg, to every
one present, carri#~d more conviction, that the estate
was his, than could any parchment or paper with sig~
nature an] seal. 'Fhe impression which the auc-
tioneer ha! *ju4 made on the company was effaced in
a moment: awl although the latter wordsof the auc-
tioneer were, "fear not Peter Rugg," the moment
the auctioneer met the eye of Ilugg, his occupation
was gone, his arm fell down to his hips, his late live-
ly hammer hung heavy in his hand, and the auction
was forgotten. The black horse, too, gave his evi-
dence. He knew his journey was ended, for he
stretched himself into a horse and a half, rested his
cheek bone over the cedar post, and whinneyed
thrice, causing his harness to tremble from head~ta11
tocrupper. Rugg, then, stood upright in his chair,
and asked with some\authoritv, "Who has (lemolish-
ed my liouve, in my absence, for I see no s~gris of a
conflagration? I demand, I)v what accident this has
happened; and wherefore this collection of strange
people has assembled before my doorstep? I thought
I knew every man in Boston, but you appear to rue
a new generation of men. Vet I am familiar with
many of the countenances here present, and I can
call some of you by name; but in truth 1 (10 not re-
collect that before thi~ moment, I ever saw any one
of' you. There, I am certain, is a Winslow, and here
a Sargent; there stands a Sewall, and next to him a
Dudley. Will none of you speak to me? Or is this
all a delusion? I see, indeed, many forms of men,
and no want of eyes, but of motion, speech, and hear-
ing you seem to be destitute. Strange! will no one
infoim me who has demolished my house?" Then
spake a voice from the crowd, but whence it came I
coulol not discern. "'['here is nothing strange here,
hut ~ ourself, Mr. Rugg. 'I 'ime, which destroys and
B1~2       177


L

MARvELL OUS REPOSITORY.
renews all things, has dilapidated your house, andi
placed us her.  You haesufferedmaya yearsan-
defied at Menotomy has at length subsided; but you
will never see home; for your house and wife and
deed re nains, but noc homee.ro erte cuts ofrm
sent. Your home is gone, and you can never have
another home in this world."

ANECDOTE OF KING GEORGE III.

IT is known that the king, after the close of the
American revolutionary war, ordered a thanksgiving
to be kept through the kingdom. A noble Scotch
divine, in the presence of his majesty, inquired,
"For what are we to give thanks ?-that your ma~jes-.
ty has lost thirteen of his best provinces ?" The king
answered, " No!" " Is it, then (the divine added,)
that your majesty has lost 100,000 lives of your sub-
iectsin the contest ?" " No, no!" said the king.
" Is it, then, that we have expended and lost a hun-
dred millions of money, and for .the defeat and tarn--
ishing of your majesty's arms?"-" No such thing!"
said the king pleasantly. " What, then, is the ob-
ject of the thanksgiving?" " Oh, to give. thanks
that it is no worse."

EXPREssION OF COMPAsSION AT A CARD TABLE. .
-So! Miss Hectic died this morning of a con
sumption.-She was no more than seventeen, a fine
girl'
Ah! is she d ead ?-Poor thing! What's Trumnps?
178

179

N

4

COMPASSION AT A CARD TABLE.
---The man is ded my deawo      eepoe
tocear the mouth of that well behin the heoed
wic he fe It -
spadem aI bought he would not recover.--Play a
la ngae weetupwards ofaa thousand killed in the
childless parents are now in sorrow!
Ah! many indeed-That odd trick is ours.
The captain is now reduced to such poverty, thr t
I am told it would be charity to send his family a
joint of meat-
T hat's hard-I have not a heart indeed, sir.
-He fell on his head, and has been delirious
ever since-and the physicians have no hopes that he
will recover the use of his reason-
Oh! !I recollect, he rode against somebody-Play
a spade if you please.
.--The prospect to the poor at present is dreadful
indeed-there will be a powerful appeal to the feel..
ings of the rich.
Yes-one really gives away so much in charity--.
iPll bet you a crown on the best club.
.-Pray mna'am, have you heard of the dreadful ac-
cident which has happened to Mrs. -?
What ? her son drowned ? 0 yes-You are eight,
you can call.
--George, ma'am, George, I am sorry to say it put
an end to his life last Tuesday-
You don't say so-I had two honours in my otwn
hand-
Yes; and, as misfortune never comes alone, 'his
mother and sister are in a state of distraction-
Dear me ! that's bad-single; double, and the rub'/
i'dxent, outing their money.


MARVELLoUS REPoSIToRY.

PETRIFIED CORPSE.
ON the 81st May, 1781, a grave was opened to
make way for another coffin at Hathersedge, in Der'-
byshire, a village on the road between Castleton and
Sheffield. Inihis grave Benjamin Ashton had been
buried on the 29th of December, 1725, aged forty-.
two, his coffin was opened either from accident or
curiosity, when his body was discovered, the whole
mass quite petrified, -not incrusted, but the whole
substance changed to stone. -The appearance induc-
ed the people to take it out of the coffin, in doing
which, the head was broken off, and shewed that
the whole substance was become a solid mass.
The likeness remained so strong that some who
knew him when alive, remembered his features
perfectly.-His face and belly were swarthy, the
underparts of a somewhat different colour. It was
replaced in the coffin and buried again. The coffin
Which was made of oak plank, one inch and a half
thick, was as sound as when put into the ground,
and was without any appearance of petrifaction
about it,!
There was a strong spring of water in the grave,
which had made its way into the coffin, yet had made
uno change in that, nor has it been otherwise known
to possess a petrifying quality.

80O

p

I AROSE early in the morning, and after. taking a
good breakfast, set out from home. A quantity of
rain had fallen in the night. It was, however, fair
when I commenced my expedition, and I wished it
so to remain. The morning was still and beautiful;
it was at the early hour of four; I could not yet distin-
-guish the sun, though 1 was sensible he had left his
ocean bed from the beautiful streaks of colouring
in the eastern sky. To express the softness, mild
ness, and calmness of the scenery, at that hour, I can-
not find adequate words; those only can conceive it
who have witnessed the scene. I had not proceeded
more than two miles, before a few drops alarmed me
with apprehension of a soaking shower, from a heavy
black cloud that was slowly sailing over my head,
and my fears were soon realized by -a very. thick
descent that followed, on which I betook myself with
all speed to a thatched cottage, that  a  tsm
distance, for shelter.tIsa             atom
Many years had elapsed since I had wandered
about in this spot in careless infancy, and the pretty
secluded cot to which I was advancing, had been my
home. I looked around on the hills and dales, and
:ould easily recognise them as my old acquaintances.
" Ha" said I, " ye change not your appearance, ye
grow not old in the course of time, the feebleness of
age cometh not upon you;-ye still smile in the
brightness of summer, and frown -in the lowering
winter. For ages ye have reared your towering
VOL. U.    Q             -181

U

THE

GHOST OF MY UN CL E.


MARVELLOUS REPOSITORY.

crests, and given food to the flocks and the herds
that have chequered your dark surface; ye have
given a direction to the murmuring brook that pro-
ceeds from you, till it seeks, far distant, the mighty
ocean; and while generation after generation hath
passed away, ye have preserved unvaried the fea
tures ye possessed in ages gone-Even now,,as in
years past, my eyes behold the still sunshine sleeping
upon your gentle sloping declivities, interrupted on
ly when the light cloud of spring, for a moment, casts
over them its passing shadow! My cogitations were
suddenly interrupted by the gate at the end of the
pasture, which I opened. In another moment I was
in the porch of the cottage; I lifted the latch, and
went in. The house appeared just the same as I ha'
left it ten years before. The furniture was the same
and each piece occupied the same position. The oh.
clock stood ticking in the corner, as it had done for
four score years, the oaken settle remained behind the
door, and my uncle's antique two armed chair by the
fire-side; but I saw no living creature in the house
besides the cat on the hearthstone. I listened awhile,
but could hear nothing. At this I rather wondered,
as of yore the house was seldom, scarcely ever, total-
ly deserted. Lihen went forward into the spence, or
country parlour, where I found several neighbour
cousins and the servants, all standing in deep silence
around the bed of my dying uncle.
On entering, all eyes turned upon me; I was a
stranger to most of them; there were, however, one
or two who remembered me. I advanced to the bed-
side, and the countenance of my uncle for a moment
brightened up at my approach, but soon subsided
again into a cold tranquil indifference. It was plain
that death was rapidly approaching. He had been
speechless several hours; consequently we could hold
no conversation. He, however, put out his hand,
which I grasped with an affection redoubled by the
prospect of soon losing him forever. In my younger
days I had lived with him, and he having no children
182

TIlE GHOST 01' MY UNCLE.
of his own, was then remarkably fond of me; subse-.
quently that affection was strengthened between us,
and although circumstances had cast my lot in an-
other country, yet we had kept up a friendly and
affectionate intercourse. Some time previous to his
indisposition, I had again removed to within thirty
miles of his residence, which was the place from
whence I set out on this sorrowful visit.
My uncle was a man of sound judgment, keen ob~
servation, and cheerful social disposition, joined to a
thorough knowledge of mankind' he possessed a
good portion of eccentricity and humour, lie loved
a cheerful glass; he was kind to his servants and de-
pendants, and though rather of a frugal and saving
disposition, yet he was charitable to his poor neigh-
oours. In his friendships he was rather capricious,
but firm in his attachment to the kirk and govern-
ment of his country. He was apt to be a little pas~
sionat and hasty in his temper; but his resentment
was se-I dom of long duration. He was well beloved
by those among whom he dwelt, and might be pro-
nounced a good neighbour, and an excellent subject.
By a long course of industry in his profession, he had
amassed a pretty good property, the knowledge of
b
which had drawn around him a host of needy rela-
tions, who besieged him with flattery and professions,
but whose attentions were chiefly drawn forth by
their hopes of inheriting the old man's property.
How he had willed it was not known. He was a
man of prudence, and seldom blabbed out his private
affairs.
On my arrival, I found all the friends about him
remarkably attentive and duteous in their behaviour,
though it was evident that a good deal of the affec-.
tion was assumed. Shortly after, he fell into a kind
of a doze, and all left the room save an attendant or
two. Peggy, the servant who had lived with my un-
cle fourteen years, now insisted on my taking some
refreshment. But I was too much agitated to feel
any thing like pleasure in my repast, and what I ate
183

K
A
P
~

I

T
-n


MARVELLOUS REPOSITORY.

was more to please the faithful old domestic, than
from any inclination of my own. When my slight
meal was over, I got up and went to the window in
a serious and reflecting mood. The afternoon was,
far advanced, and the scenery without was wrapped
in tranquillity. I was soon summoned from my sta-
tion to the parlour. My uncle had somewhat re-
vived, and his speech had returned. He told us
death was making rapid advances, and that we might
soon expect th~ moment of his dissolution, He in-
formed us where we should find his ivill, and gave
us some excellent advice on our future conduct.
Some things he requested us to perform, which I
thought were a Jittle odd. He wished us to read his
will in the room where he was, immediately after he
had expired. He desired that he might not be laid
out, as it is commonly called, until at least twelve
hours after his departure; that his large two armed
oaken chair might be placed in all order and solem-
nity at the head of the table every meal, and that it
should remain unoccupied till after his funeral. He
also wished to be interred in a very deep grave. All
these requests we promised faithfully to observe,
when, after taking an affectionate farewell of each,
he quietly resigned himself to his pillow; his breath-
ing became more and more faint, till at last we could
perceive it no more.
During these transactions my mind was in a state
I cannot well describe: my thoughts were all con-
fusion, while at the same time I struggled to be caIn~
and composed. Poignant as were my feelings, I
gazed on my dying relative with a sort of apathy
and grief, and at the moment when nature was yield-
ing up the contest I could not shed a tear. In a
short time all quitted the apartment, and I was left
alone. 'l'he branches of the huge elm trees, with
their thickening foliage, partially screening the win-
dow, made it, under such circumstances, awfully
gloomy and tranquil. I took several turns about the
room, and with a soft step I approached the bed,
I ~4

THE GHOST OI~ MY UNCLE.
gazed a moment, turned away, and then going up
to the window, strove to divert my thoughts by look-
ing at the surrounding landscape. rrxvilf~ht was de-
scending, and the sober hues of evening gradually
enveloped the lofty hills. No sound struck my ear,
except the faint and low murmurs of the brook,
which brawled down the valley at the bottom of the
Flinty Knowe~-the shout, softened by distance, of
the Peasant committing his herds to the pasture-
and now and then the solitary barking of a shep~
herd's dog amng the echoing dales, attendant on
his master looking out his charge for the night.
I had not stood at the casement many minutes
when my cousins, all talking in a rude, noisy, and
indecorous manner, came into the room with the
will, which it seems they had departed in search of
the moment the testator had expired. I was a good
deal shocked at the frivolity they manifested, and
could not help reproving them, though in a mild and
gentle manner, for the little respect they paid to the
(leceased. "\Vhy ye ken," said one, "he tauld us
to read the will amaist as soon as he died." "Ay,"
cried another, " and sac in conformity xvi' his com~
ruand, we went straight up the stairs and rummaged
o'er his auld kist, till we found it." " Mind your
am concerns, gude man, and we'll mind oui~s," re-
joined a third, rather gruffly; so that my well meant
admonitions had no better effect than to cause me to
be more disliked by the party; for I could perceive
before this that they looked on me in the light of an
unwelcome intruder.
The will was now read, to which all paid the
greatest attention. A mute anxiety and* deep in-
terest sat on every countenance: their aspects were
however, instantly changed into those of intense dis-
appointment and vexation, on hearing that my uncle
had made a stranger, whom none of us knew, the
heir of all his property, real and personal. For my
p art, this circumstance did not affect me in the
I east. I had not had, any expectation of inheriting
VOL. H.    Q2                185

I

4 i
i


MARVELLOUS REPOSITORY.                             THE GHOST OF MY UNCLE.

the smallest l)ortion; therefore could not feel disap-
pointed. But with the others it was different; they
had clung to him like so many leeches, or like the
ivy to the old ruinand with about as much affec-
tion as the two before-mentioned things have for the
objects to which they so 'closely adhere. A most ap-
palling and disgusting scene now took place among
the disappointed legacy hunters. They 'abused the
01(1 man in the most shocking terms: they taxed him
with injustice and villany, and even proceeded to
call down imprecations upon his lifeless corse. I
shuddered at the conduct of the unprincipled vii-
lains; I trembled at the impiety of men who could,
at a time the most solemn and impressive to a human
being, act in a manner sufficient to call down upon
them immediate and divine vengeance. I was chill-
ed with horror. I almost expected every moment
to see the lifeless. corse of my uncle start from the
bed, on which it lay, to take vengeance on the au-
dacious wretches. Once, indeed, I actually thought
I saw his lips quiver with rage-h is eyebrows knit
together-and all the muscles of his countenance
contract into a dreadful frown. I shuddered at the
sight and withdrew my gaze.
At length they went into the kitchen, and I was
once more left alone in the chamber of death. I
went to the bed-side, and the scene I had just wit-
nessed operated so forcibly on my feelings, that I
i~urst into tears, and uttered aloud my lamentations
over my lifeless relative. When this ehullition had
somewhat subsided, I began to reflect a little where
was, and a sort of timidity came creeping over me.
There isan undefinable apprehension which we feel
while we are in company with the dead. We ima-
gine, in spite of the efforts of reason, that the depart-
c(l spirit is hovering near its former tenement. It
being now quite dark, and having these P~elings in a
strong degree, it is no wonder that I rather preferred
the company of the wretches in the kitchen, than to
remain long where I was.
186

I accordingly proceeded thither, where I found
them all car'ousing round a large table, on which
were placed the fragments of the innere, and plenty
of liquor.' I reminded them of our promise to place
mY uncle's 01(1 two armed chair at the head of the
table, as he had requested, which they ha4neglected
to do, and which they now strenuously opposed my
(loing. I was, however, resolut~elv determined to
have it done, and at length succeeded. I then re-
tire(l to the fire-side, where I sat, without taking any
part in the conversation, or any thing that passed
during the whole evening. I shall pass over the
several succeeding hours, the whole of which they
sat -drinking, till they were all in a greater or less
degree intoxicated, and generally brawling' wran-
gling, and swearing in a loud and boisterous man-
ncr. The night became stormy as it advanced.
The wind arose, and at intervals moaned, sighed,
an(l whistled shrilly without, roared in the wide
chimney , and as it furiously bent the trees in which
the house was embosomed, made a sound similar to
the dashing of the waves on the shore of the ocean.
The rain fell in torrents, and the large drops patter-
ed against the window with a ceaseless and melan-
choly cadence.
It was now getting nigh the "witching time of
night," and I saw no signs of the revellers quitting
the table. On the contrary, they grew more loud
and boisterous. In obedience to their imperious
commands, yet evidently with the greatest reluct-
ance, Peggy had kept replenishing the exhausted
vessels with more liquor, and their demands increas-
ed in proportion to the reluctance with which they
were satisfied. At length, however, on receiving an
intimation from me that I would interpose, she abso-
lutely refused to draw any more liquor for them,
telling them they had had plenty, and that it was
tune to retire to bed. The scene that now ensued
was such as is impossible for me to describe; mad
dened and inflamed witk rage at being thus refused,
187

'p

WI

4


MARVELLOUS IU~PO51TORY.

the wretcnes began to throw the furniture up and
down the house, break the glasses and jugs, and to
abuse the servant, from whom they attempted to
wrest the keyof the cellar, yelling out at the same
time the most horrid oaths and imprecations.
The table was shortly oversee, and the lights put
out in the scuffle, and in a few moments we should,
in all probability, have had blood shed, as I felt my-
self roused to a pitch of fury, and was advancing
with the large heavy headed fire-poker to the assist-
ance of the servant, who was loudly shrieking for
help: just then the old clock struck twelve rapid
strokes, and the bell had not ceased to vibrate, when
we heard three heavy knocks, as if given by a mallet
upon the wall, which separated the kitchen from the
parlour where my unc
something         le lay. There appeared to be
~upernaturaI in this. The whole house
seemed to shake to its very foundation. A deep si~
lence ensued. I stood still. The wretches instantly
became sober. 'We all gazed earnestly and wil(lly at
the place, from whence the noise proceeded. Scarce
had we recovered from the shock, when we were
again thund~*struck with a noise in the parlour; it
was unlike any sound that I had ever heard before.
It seemed as if all the furniture in the room was
violently crashed together, mingled with the noise
of fire-arms. Shrieks and exclamations burst from
all.
The windows shook and every door of the habi.~
station gave a momentary jar. I trembled with awe.
I felt every hair of my head bristling upwards-my
knees smote against each other-a (leathly paleness
sat on every countenance, and all eyes were fixed in
an intense gaze on the door, at the upper part of the
kitchen, which led to the staircase, buttery, and par-
lour. When, to complete the horror of the scene,
the door burst wide open-dashed against the ~vall,
and in, gliding at a slow pace, came a dreadful ap.
partition. Its countenance was that of death. It
seemed to have been long the inhabitant of that dark
188

THE GHOST OF MY UNCLE.

I
an(l narrow house-the grave; the worms had revel~
led upon its eyes, and left nothing but the orbiess
sockets. The rest of the skeleton was enveloped in
a long and white sheet. The horrid spectre advanc-
ed into the middle of the room. I involuntarily
shrunk back-the heavy weapon dropped from my
hand and rang loudly on the stone floor; overcome
with terror, I sank into a chair. 4A cold sweat broke
from my forehead, and I had well nigh fainted on its
first appearance; the others had tumbled one over
the other, in the greatest horror and confusion,
and now lay as if dead in all directions.
The spectre gazed wildly round for a moment--at
the clock-at the fire---and then turned its eyeles~
sockets upon each individual, motion in~ at the same
time with its Ion rarmd
,,,an pointing t~ the outer
door, seemingly directing to an outlet Tor escape,
and wishing for their exif. They were not long m
obeying this intimation, but severally crawled away
ontheir hands and knees, with all the speed they
could possibly make; none of them daring to slant]
upright. The spectre all the while was ~1andjng
in the middle of the floor, eyeing, or rather appear-
ing to eye them, through the void socket~, where
eyes had once gli4ened, as they. retreate(l one by
one in the greatest fear and trepidation. XVhe~i
Peggy and I offered to decamp along with the rest,
the spectre motioned us to remain where we were.
and we durst not for our lives disobey. When the
last of the crew was making his exit, and had crawl
ed nearly to the door, the spectre, which had hither-
to stood motionless, except waving its arm and
slowly turning its eyeless countenance on the wretch-
es as they crept successively out of the door, bounded
with the rapidity of lightning after the terrified
wretch. But swift as the flight of spirits are, in this
ease that of the mortal was swifter: the fellow gave
a thrilling scream-made a convulsive spring-his
heels struck violently against the lintel of the door
in his course, and he vanished from my sight and
189


MARVELLOUS REPOSITORY.                            THE GHOST OF MY UNCLE.

the spectre after him. "Gude defend us," said Peg~
gy. "For my part, ill as I was frightened, I could
scarce forbear laughing outright at the last incident
SO comical and farcical."
Half a minute had not elapsed, when I heard a
step, and in another instant (I still kept my eyes on
the door) in came the very form of my uncle, mut-
term g, "Villains' Rascals! Hypocrites!" lie fas-
tene d the door after him, shut out his nephews and
the spectre, and then can:e towards the fire. At this
I was more amazed than ever He, however, gave
me to understand that he was alive and well, and
that all I had seen transacted in the afternoon and
evening, was nothing but a stratagem he had made
use of to try the sincerity of his relations, and if he
found theni, as he conjectured, false in their pro-
fessions, to get rid of them. T he scheme answered
nobly, and, it must be confessed, the stratagem was
well planned and exceedingly wall executed.
My uncle concluded his relation with assuring me,
that, excepting a good legacy for his faithful servant
PeggyIsh ould inherit all that he possessed, as some
little acknowledgment for the fright he had caused
me; and as for the wretches he had expelled from
his house, in so singular a manner, they should never
more cross the threshold of his door. We all three
now sat down to a little supper, of which my uncle
stood in great need, and after taking a cheer
retired to bed.                         ful glass
Notwithstanding the fatigue of my journey, and
sitting up so late, my sleep was far from being sound
and refreshing. I was disturbed with fearful dreams
the whole night. At length~ the cocks began to crow
-the clouds of the eastern sky to break asunder, and
the morning to dawn. When it was tolerably light
I started up, resolved on a stroll over the meadows.
Before going out, however, I went into the parlour,
where I found every thing in the utmost confusion.
Chairs, tables, walking-sticks, and logs of wood, lay
all over the floor, and every thing upset or in a xv~ong
190

position. I then proceeded to the outer door, which
I opened, but started back in horror, on perceiving
a human skull lying on a sheet at my right hand,
just without the door. Recovering from my fright,
gathered d it up,~an d could not restrain my laughter,
when I discover ~ d it to be nothing more than a mask,
representing a death's head. It seems while we were
all wrangling tl4e night before, my uncle had step-
C(l out of bed-dressed himself-piled all the furni-
iire, logs of wood and timber, he could in the apart-
ment, in a heap, crowning the pyramid with a dozen
or more walking-sticks, which had lain time out of
mind on the top of an old cupboard-then gone up
stairs and put on the horrid mask-brought down a
pistol, and enveloped himself from his feet to his
chin, in a clean white sheet; after alarming us, just
as the clock struck the awful hour of twelve, by
striking three heavy blows against the wall with a
huge log of wood, he contrived to tumble down the
whole mass of furniture at once-fired his pistol at
the same moment, and then burst in upon us in the
manner described.
I now went out. As I was crossing the yard, I
discovered several drops of blood on a stone, Which
I could no way account for, but by supposing some
of my good cousins had received, in their retreat, a
fall; and, a little further, I discovered a pair of shoes.
A receptacle for the filth of the byre, in another
p art of the yard, bore evident marks of some one
l~avin~ had therein a severe struggle.
Indeed the adventures of the flying heroes had
been various and woeful; one of them, he at whom
the spectre made such a sudden bound, as I after-
wards ascertained, actually ran seven miles without
stopping, and with his shrieks, supposing the grim
monster close at his heels, almost raised the whole
country. I now proceeded trnwards over the fields,
listening to the warbling l&amp;rk "springing blithely
up to greet the purpling east." The air was fresh
and pure, and, in the beauties of nature, I awhile
191

'1

11


MARVELLOUs REPOsITORY.
fergot the events of the preceding evening. With
-hasty steps I roved over the faintly recollected scenes,
where I had in childhood spent some of my happiest
hours, until weary with my rambles I returned to
breakfast.
SIR ,RICHARD sTEELE AND THE SEVEN BULLs.
Sia Richard- Steele once went with a party to a
ebountry town, where they dined. While dinner was
preparing, Sir Richard made many blunders in his
conversation. His friends rallied him, and said that
he made more bulls than .all the company beside.
Sir Richard retorted, with some warmth, that he did
not know that he-made more bulls than any other
p~erson. One of the company insisted that he did,
and offered to lay a dozen of wvine that he would
make a b 11 before the cloth was withdrawn that
was then laying. I'he wager was accepted; and
dinner being served up, the conversation turned on
the number of signs of the Bull in that town, anid
they began to enumerate them. One said there
were six; another said there were seven; .but they
could not make any more than six when counting
them over by their different colours. While they
were considering where the seventh was, Sir Richard
exclaimed, "By St. Patrick, you have forgotten the
Red Cow at the foot of the bridge.." On which his
opponent said; " That is a bull!" " Is it so, sir,,;.
said Sir Rcard, "then you-have made one of it,
for it was a cow when I saw it last."-The bet was
determined in favour of Sir Richard'.

192

A,

BLEEDING FINGER.

JoiHN 'AUDLEY was a good simple soul, a parish
clerk and a cobbler, and lived at Eccleston in Lanca-
shire; wherc he had many years exercised these re-
spect able functions entirely to his own satisfaction,
and, generally speaking, to the content of the good
folks of the villa-e. His talents were held in much
estimation by the lads and lasses in the neighbour-
hood: he had assisted at most of the christenings,
-mended their shoes,.cut their valentines, pronounced
Amen, and sung Arthur O'Bradley at their wed-
dings; and was famous for having himself, three
several times in his life, seen the Shriekin~g 'Woman,
and the apparition of the Murdered Tinker. He
also told more stories of ghosts and hobgobhins than
any person in Eccleston, Dame Dickson the midwife
alon exAudley's customers, like the houses of the
parish where he lived, lay scattered. He had been,
on a winter evening, to carry home a pair of mende
shoes to Farmer Down's; and was returning by moon-
light, half petrified with fear, and endeavouring to
whistle away from remembrance the story of the
Tall Woman in 'White, and her Headless Horse;
when sud denly a four-footed creature brushed bfy him,
and a voice thundered through his ears-" Hey, Fire-.
tail! Firetail-Ah, sirrahb! here, devil,here !" " Lord
have mercy upon me !" said John Audley, and again
the thing passed him swift as dust blown by a whirl
VOL. ii.   R        B119

I

'I

om

'1

THE


MARVELLOUS REPOSITORY.
wind. John's legs were exceelingly willing to run,
but wanted the power, and therefore stopped. His
eyes Were fixed upon two animals that he saw ap-
proaching; they appeared of a frightihi magnitude
and figure: one of them walked upright, and the
other on all-fours; both had heads as rough as a Rus-
Sian bear, an(l both grew bigger and bigger as they
4rew near.
"In the name of the Father, Son, and--" "Bow,
Wow !" replied Firetail, cutting short John Audley's
invocation. "Ab, rascal! keep close, devil !" said
the upright apparition, and Firetail growled and
retreated. "Lord have mercy upon me !" ag~in
said John Audley, who imagined the devil was only
restrained for a moment, that he might return with
greater fury. "How now, friend !" said Firetail's
master: "What, are you at prayers in this place?
what, do you go down upon your marrow bones?"
"I charge you, in the name of God," answered John,
"tell me, be you a Christian, a ghost, or a devil?"
"Neither." "'Wh-wh..what are you then?" "A
merry fellow, a traveller, and moreover, a story-
teller." "And is not that an evil spirit by your
side ?" "An evil spirit !-.~W~hat, Firetail ?-A bottle-
conjurer !" "Lord preserve me !" "A calf's head
and cabbage. Lie down, sirrah! Be 9uiet, dog's
face! You would find him an evil spirit if I were to
let him loose upon you, perhaps." "I pray you,
don't !-I pray you don't !2-~-My name's John A udley-
I am a poor harmless man, and a parish clerk, and
mortally afraid of evil spirits."
John Audley, by the arguments of the stranger,
Was half inclined, after a deal of persuasion, to be-
lieve him real flesh and blood; that Firetail was a
rough Newfoundland dog; and that the hairy head
of his master was a shaggy goat-skin cap, made in a
whimsical form; so that the eyes, (that is, eyes of
glass) face, and horns, were preserved. Such an ap-
parition, at snch a time, and in such a place, might
have startled a stouter man than John Audley:
194

THE BLEEDING FINGER.
but though he began to suspect him not to be ac~
tually the devil, he remained firmly persuaded he
must be a conjurer at least; and this opinion was
confirmed, both by his head-dress, which exact-
ly tallied with John's ideas of a conjurer, and his
sudden supernatural appearance; as supernatural
indeed it was to him, whose fear had swallowed up
his senses.
"And pray, sir," said John Audley, as they were
jogging on together, "what may your name be ?"
"Andrew Errant." "And where be you going to-
night ?" "As far as your house, friend; where, with
your lea're, I intend to sup and sleep." John And-
ley's pulse again began to quicken; he was afraid to
say yes, but still more afraid to say no: he would
have told a lie, and said he had neither meat nor
bed, had he not thought the conjurer knew to the
contr~iry, 'and would take some desperate revenge:
at last he stammered out, "Yo-you-your worship
shall be very welcome."
Mr. Errant was a very communicative person;
and, as they walked along, informed his companion,
that he was of a merry, happy temper, loved ram-
bling, hated employment, and was blessed with a
quick imagination, and a good memory, by means of
which he contrived to live; in short, that he was, by
trade, a story-teller; a trade formerly in great re-
quest, but now grown obsolete, he being the only
one who at present lived by it professionally; not
one word of which John Audley believed. Mr. Er-
rant added, that whether it was for the want of ri-
vals, or his own excellence, he could not absolutely
determine; but that he had been very successful in
his attempts, and that he never visited a family a
second time who were not very glad to see him, and
who did not make a little feast to entertain him when-
ever he called. John Audley understood by this,
that the conjurer loved good eating ~and drinking;
and for once he was not mistaken.
Mr. Errant continued giving further traits of his
195

'vi

Is,

Ji

d
r-

4


MARVELLOUS REPOSITORY.
talents and ~hai'acter;~ ~such as, that he h~d a large
assortment of stories, humoiirous, marvellous, tern
ble, and tender; that he always studied the tempex
and dispositions of his hearers before he began; and
that the faculty he had of suiting his history to his
host, was, ashe believed, the principal cause of his
success. "You, now, honest John Audley," said
he, '~ I am sure, are very attentive to any tale of a
ghost~ and so I warrant is your good wife," John
A~idley blessed himself, "How well he knows mi~
~name! (He had forgot that he hiipself had told it.)
lie knows I have a wife too, and knows-he knows
every .1 hing!" Such were John's silent cogitations,
when they arrived at his cottage.
John Audley'y dwelling was snug, well thatched.
arl(i warm; the inside was decorated with shelves, on
which the white and well-scoured wooden dishes
and treuchers were placed in rows: beneath which
Were pasted King Charles's Golden Rules, Death
arid the Lady, with various miraculous l)istories of
angels that appeared in white robes to ministers of'
the gospel, and devils that carEied away perjured
lovers, Sabbath-breakers, and blasphemers, in flashes
of fire, to the astonishment and terror of all be-
holders.
John Audley opened his door, winked to his
wife Dorothy with signifi5ant terror, and told her
he had brought honie a very honest gentleman, to
give him a bed for the night, and a bit of such meat
as she had in the house. Dorothy, who was pot in
the habit of paying implicit obedience to her hus-
band's mandates, was going to put in a caveat; and
John, who knew by her physiognomy she would not
be very nice in her choice of words, sidled up to her
and whispered in her ear, "Hold thyfoolish tongue;
do not be curst- 'tis a conjurer !" Do~'othy had al-.
most as great respect for, or rather fear of conjurers,
as John Audley himself; her countenance changed,
she dropt a curtsey, placed a stool, cast a look at the
cap and the (iO~, trembled, and desired the gentle.
196

THE BLEEDING FINGER.
man would sit down, and drew her countenance into
a demure form.
"Thou.hadst better kill the young cock, and boil
him with a bit of bacon," said John. " I will," re-
plied Dorothy, and went about it, though it grieved
her to the heart-she could have sold him for nine-
1)ence at Prescot market.
She presently returned with the victim in her
~and, telling John Audley, as she entered, with an
expressive look and emphasis, that she had not the
least difficulty in catching him, but that, on the con-
trary, he had flown into her arms.
Although the talkative and frank disposition of
Mr. Errant was some relief to the awakened fears
of John and Dorothy, it could not make them totally
subside; and as fear is nearly related to cunning, it
inspired John with a thought, which he imagined
would act like a charm in his favour, supposing the
conjurer should be inclined to be mischievomXs, which,
from the nature of such animals, he believed to be
exceedingly probable. This was no other, than to
reach down the bible, and sit upon it; which John
Audley effected with great slyness and dexterity.
We have before remarked, that John was of the gen-
tie craft' ~tnd it is here necessary to observe, that
there was a ball of shoemakers' wax, which by ac-
cident had been laid upon the bible, over which, be-
ing near the fire, it had spread; and this, in his
anxiety to cheat the devil, or (which is much the
same) the conjurer, John Audleyliad never noticed,
but placed it under next his breech, which being
thus in contact with the bible, he hoped might secure
his body against the power of magic.
Mr. Errant, whose profession in some measure im-
plied a ready wit, and a certain knowledge of the
heart, observed the workingg of that powerful sorce-
ress Fancy upon the spirits of John and Dorothy,
and determined to convert it to his own amusement.
"I willtell you the story of the Bleeding Finger,
good folks," said he; "it is very strange, and very~
VOL. H.                      197

14""
I;
ii
~ji ~; I.'

I


MAPA J~i.L0LJs REI'OSTTORY.                              THE BLEEDING FINER.

true: it ~iilI divert u~ while the pot is bojlino
~, and I
dare say von will like to hear it."
'lthere Iive~ a magician in days of old, who had
power over the winds and waves; whose word could
command the demons of the deep, and the spirits of
the ajr durst not disobey his will. This magician
was held to be a sociable, merry, good sort of person
when pleased~ considering he was a magician; for,
you must understand, conjurers, wizards, necro-
mancers, and magicians, are very tetchy and re-
vengeful, and never fail to send their imps and gob~
hns, to torment such as affront or use them disre-.
spectfully.
"The name of this magician was Tom ogorod,
which signifies Eat him-up; and he had a daughter,
called Holakaree, that is to say, Blood-sucker, who
was an enchantress. 'Wheneyer either of them went
abroad, they had at least one spirit to attend them,
who was sometimes disguised in the form of a bear,
at others in a monkey or cat, and sometimes in th~
likeness of a huge mastiff; mostly, for expeditiorrs
sake, they travelled through the air, and then they
were usually drawn hy four flaming torches, follow-
ed by fiends in the shape of tadpoles, who were so
numerous that their swarms darkened the air.
"Tomogorod, as I have said, was not much in-
clined to mischief, unless provoked; but i\~oe be to
any one that affronted him! If he asked a clownish
fellow where he was going, and the lout returned a
saucy answer, he would fix him astride upon the
next stile without the power of moving, or turn him
into a pitchfork, and give him his own shape again
when any body had stuck him up to the hilts in a
dunghill. His name denoted him to be a lover Oa
gqod living, and he always behaved civilly to such as
gave him the best they had to eat.
"Holakree, his daughter, who was of an ambitious
temper, had the wickedness to fall in love with the
king's son, a youth of three and twenty, of a sweet
disposition. and the most charming person in the
198

world. His name was Dulimond, which means Dim-
j)leface, and he was the sole heir to the crown. It
happened one day, while he was hunting, that he
saw the most beautiful blue hare run by him that
eyes had ever beheld, ~nd he was so charmed with
the appearance of that strange animalthat he could
not fbrbear leaving his other sport to follow this new
game. He l)resently lost sight of his courtiers and
attendants; who, as people often are, were more in-
tent Ul)Ofl their diversion than their duty.
"He followed the animal for more than half an
hour; and being mounted upon a swift Arabian
courser, seemed every instant to be within a hair's~
breadth of catching her; when presently his eye was
attracted, by the descent of an eaglethat darted upon
the hare, and rose with an incredible swiftness, till
they were both lost in the clouds. WThile theprince
stood gazing, and looking after the eagle~ and her
prey, which still remained like a speck upon his
sight, the sky began to lower, the heavens darkened,
and the distant thunders rolled. The prince looked
round, but saw neither place of refuge nor human
being. The storm increased; the elements, with
dreadful bursts, seemed to crack and 5j)lit over his
very head; and the fires of the firmament darted
their forked and penetrating essence into the torn
bosom of the earth. But what astonished him most
was, that though the waters appeared to stream from
the heavens on every side of hmmb not a hair of his
head, nor a thread of his garments, were wet. The
heart of Dulimond was as the heart of a lion; he was
awed, but not dismayed.
C~ ~ his eyes were endeavouring to trace the
uncertain path of the life-snatching lightning, and
his ears filled with the terrific tumults of the sky, he
beheld, not far above him, a bright cloud, that seem-
ed in the centre to be a lambent flame, and whence~
issued a voice loud and impulsive, but sweet as mu-
sic in dreams, which pronounced distinctly the fol-
lowing words:
199


[

MARVELLOUS REPOSITORY.
"'Beware of her with a Golden Thumb.
Follow the Bleeding Finger.
Plunge, fearless, into the Lake of Bitterness,
to recover the white wand of Orophalis.
Dangers encompass you: be' virtuous, bold,
and obedient; or you perish.'
"The voice ceased, and the rain, and the thun-
der, and the lightning, were no more; the sun was
resplendent, the forest had vanished, and the scene
was changed. Vallies of a thousand different re-
viving shades of green were seen on every side; aro-
inatic shrubs, flowers, and various trees, were scat-
tered round, and distant lakes, and more distant
mountains were in view.
"'I'he prince, filled with wonder at all these
strange 'accidents, was sunk deep in reflection; Inso-
mach, that his eyes were fixed, and his soul absorbed
by the cogitations of his mind; when he was awaken-
ed from his trance by the voice of a lady, who sweet-
hr and courteously demanded, if he could direct her
to the palace of the Seven Dragons. Dulimond
started, looked up, and was again fixed in astonish-
inent. Never before had he beheld such perfec-
tions, such grace, such features! Seated upon a
milk-white courser, with hair that descended in wav-
ing ringlets upon her horse's back, and a face more
beauteous than the, face of nature at the Sun's rising,
this lady looked like a spirit of heaven, and not an
inhabitant of earth. She was obliged to repeat her
question; and the prince, respectfully bowing, an-
swere(l4ie never before had heard of such a l)alace.
The lady gracefully inclined her head in token of
thanks, and passed swiftly forward; while th~ prince,
ravished with the angelic apparition, gave his steed
the rein, kept within sight of her, and forgot the
scenes that had so lately happened.
"They rode that way for more than an hour at a
hard rate, when they came to a vast forest. The
prince, who had a piercing eye, beheld an inscrip-
200

THE BLEEDING FINGER.

tion as he was riding by the side of the forest, and
stopping a moment in hopes of learning some intelli-
gence, whereby he might oblige the lady, he read-
'This leads to the Palace of the Seven Dragons.'
"The prince immediately put spurs to his horse,
and, gently calling after the lady, beckoned her to
return. She, who seemed to have slackened her
pace when Dulimond stopped, 'presently heard, and
obeyed. As she approached the prince, she thanked
him with the roost winning words and action; whilst
he, ravished with her charms and condescension,
~ ayed to be admitted to escort her to the palace.
'1' he lady again gave a courteous reply, anti they en-
tered the forest together. They had not proceeded
far before they lost all sight of the surrounding coun-
try, and were buried in a ~loom so thick, that light
could scarcely penetrate. As they rode on, strange
noises saluted their ears; sometimes, as it were, the
faint groaning of the dying; at others, the fierce
cowlings of wild beasts in torture; and then again
like the whizzing of sky-rockets, accompanied with
loud, confused, and in numerable shrieks a~nd screams,
as though the spirits of the air were battling till the
very elements were tormented. Visions, as strange
as the sounds t1~ey heard, likewise molested their
journey: at one instant, a head without a bpdy would
seem to dance backward he fore them, sometimes with
ghastly looks, and sometimes with grimaces, mewing
at them; at another, serpents, the bodies of which
were black, their eyes flaming, and their ~tails triply
divided, with a sting at the end of each, seemed to
threaten the travellers: but, what was iiiore reniark-
able, an urchin, that lay in the path at the entrance
of the forest, became a hall of fire, and rolled itself
along before the in, as if to direct them in the i'oute
they should pursue.
"Dulimond was not more astonished at these
things than at the behaviour of the lady, who con-
tinued her way undismayed, and almost without
noticirg such strange events, notwithstanding that
201

z~.~mmm

(


MARVELLOUS REPOSITORY.

THE BLEEDING FINGER.

the demons (for the forest was enchanted) became
more dreadfully terrible in their howls and shrieks,
and unnatural shapes, the farther they proceeded.
however, if a lady had the courage to go on, it was
not for Dulimond to recede! It almost appeared
unmanly to draw his sabre; but from doing this it
was sc~.rcely possible to refrain, so fearfully were
they beset. Nor could the dangers to which they
were exposed hinder the prince from thin king on his
most beautiful companion with rapture. her de-
meanour, her form, her wit, and her fortitude, made
him consider her as a miracle; and he found his af-
fections so totally enslaved as to be absolutely irre-
trievable. How could he forbear to admire, when
he heard her oxily utter some short exclamation at
the moment that the fiends were most horrible ~nd
insolent, and when he saw her turn and smile with
ineffable sweetness upon him, as it were to wi~h him
notto fear or suffer on her account? This he es-
teemed a noble generosity of soul; and he could not
but adore her who was capable of such heroic ex-
ertion.
"They came at length to the other 5i(le of the
forest; and the urchin of fire that accompanied them
bounded from the earth, and gambolled in the air
with a thousand antic motions. Instead, however, of
an open country, they beheld a black rock, the front
of which extended farther than sight, andits summit
lay beyond the clouds. As they approached it, they
read in huge transparent characters,
"'This is the entrance to the Palace of the Seven
Dragons.'
"'How,' cried Dulimond, 'this the entrance!
Here is no entrance; this is a vast and solid rock; ~a
rock of marble; and all the powers of nature can-
not enter here!'
"The lady smiled, alighted nimbly from her horse,
approached the place of~t he inscription, and stretch-
ed forth her arm. She laid her t4urnb, her Golden
202

Thumb, upon the marble, when instantaneous thun-
der rolled, and the massy front of the rock opened.
"Imagine what was the astonishment ofDulimond,
and what his grief, when he beheld this miracle per-
formed by the Lady with the Golden Thumb! his
heart sunk in his bosom, and his arm fell nerveless
by his side. Yet this Was no time for despondency;
danger was before him, behind him, and on every
side of him; and the crisis of his fate drew on.
"The chasm of the rock had remained open some
minutes, the prince stood plunged in sorrowful sus-
pense, and the lady seemed attending on his coming.
A voice proclaimed-
"'Let not such as would enter the Palace of the
Seven Dragons linger, for the Rock of Sculls is about
to close.'
"At the same moment Dulimond beheld a naked
arm, with the fore-finger slowly dropping blood, and
pointing the way to the palace of the Seven Dragons.
The vision, though horrible, gave him pleasure; his
heart was with the lady; and he rejoiced that his
duty furnished him with an excuse to follow his in-
clinations.
"The prince had but just time to make the pas~
sage of the rock before it shut; and had he been a
moment later, it would have closed upon him; which
accident happening to many, it was called the Rock
of Sculls. They proceeded onward till they came
to a bridge, where lay the Seven Dragons, whence
the palace derived its~ name. At their approach, all
these horrible monsters lashed their prodigious tails,
opened their destructive jaws (set all over with teeth
like harrows,) and projected their long and forked
tongues; and, with an insatiate fury, were flying
upon Dulimond. Mortal resistance to such enemies
seemed vain, and death inevitable; when, at the
very instant they were about to seize on the prince,
the lady held forth the Golden Thumb, and they
dropped senseless to the earth in a profound sleep.
203


MARVELLOUS REPOSITORY.                                THE BLEEDING FINGER.

"They passed the bridge, and drew near to the
palace, which was the most superb that eyes ever
beheld. Its magnitude and architecture filled the
mind with grandeur, and the richifess of its oriia-
ments dazzled the sight to behold. They came at
last to a place where the road divided; one way went
directly forward, and the other deviated to the left,
which led to the palace. On the confines of the lat-
ter StOO(l trool)s of nymphs, whom none could equal
in beauty, the Lady with the Golden Thumb alone
excepted, and such as imagination only has seen.
Some of them played on instruments, the sound of
which ravished the ear; others danced with such de-
ligbtful motion, as put mortal senses into a delirium
of pleasure. They were come to meet the lady and
i~t'ince, and this way were they proceeding, when
Dulimond beheld the Bleeding Finger point the
contrary road. He stopped, he looked, he consider-
ed, his bosom heaved a profound sigh, the war within
him was strong, and his body was motionless. The.
lady did not persuade him by words, she took a more
powerful method; her looks, sorrowful and dejected;
her eyes, with all the well-feigned grief of poverty,
told him, that in him was all her happiness centered;
with him she should be blessed; without bin-i misera-
ble. Neither did she remind him of the dangers to
Which he had been exposed, and' from which he had
been preserved by her; therefore Dulimond remeni-
bered them the more forcibly. His heart was en-
slaved by her.beauty, he could no longer resist her
charms~ and again he began to follow her; when the
air was filled with the most doleful wailings, and
the finger of the naked arm began to stream 111th
blood.
"The hearLof Dulimond was strongly virtuous:
he had been nurtured in a sublime morality. The re~
merubrance of the firm resolutions he had so often
made, to persevere amidst all temptations in the
paths of rectitude and honour, came with a gleam of
heroic ardour upon his mind, elevated his soul, and
~04

I

made it equal to the glorious contest. He turned
his eyes from the wit series oC passion and pleasure,
and, with a determine d spirit, followed the naked
arm: the blood again more slowly dropped; but the
vast concave of the sky became tortured with shrieks,
cries, howlings, so piercing, that distraction would
have seized any one of less virtue and courage than
D ulimond.
"Undaunted did he follow his bleeding guide,
though the fiends now transformed themselves into
ten thousand hideous shapes, and chattered at, in-
suited, and assaulted him, with a hundred-fold more
malignity and fury than they did in his passage
through the Enchanted Forest. He came at length
to the Lake of Bitterness; but who can describe the
dreadful, horrible, and disgusti~Thuimals, by which
its waters were guarded! On the surface, vipers,
water-snakes, and dun-coloured serpents, hissed ter-
ror with their forked tongues. At the border lay
toads, with starting eyes and vast bloated bodies;
their mouths just above the water, diving sometimes
beneath the slimy sedge, while the lake bubbled
poison, and again ascending to the water's edge.
The bottom was covered over with lizzards, newts,
and efts, darting upon their prey; reptiles, with
51)eckled bellies and a hundred legs, that shot swift
as an arrow from a bow, whither their voracity or
malice willed; and spiders, so huge and inflated, that
the shagged hai~r of their bodies was like the bristles
of the hunted boar; and their eyes, globular and
projecting, were as the eyes of tigers watching whom
they might devour.
"All these, and innumerable others fpr which na-
ture has no likeness, immediately on the approach of
Dulimond, ceased their obscene sports, and rancor-
ous wars on one another, and with their million of
mouths, caine in voracious swarms, as if in expecta-
tion of their prey. Humanity shuddered, and shrunk:
it was a sight of horror.
"The naked arm, in the mean time, rested over
VOL. 11.   S                 205


WARVELLOUS i~EPOSITORY.
the centre of' the lake, the finger ceased to bleed, and
pointed downward. Thither the prince cast his eye,
and beheld the white wand of Orophalis; he stayed
not to consider on the danger, but quitted his steed,
and threw himself, fearless, into the Lake of Bitter~
ness. His arm divided the waters; and though his
body seemed to be penetrated and torn by a host of
these devouring reptiles, he still had the power to
proceed. He arrived at the spot; and, unterrified,
plunged to the bottom. The earth shook, the heavens
were on fire, and nature seemed to groan as though
her end was come. He seized the wand; and, lo!
the lake was no more! He stood upon dry land, his
enemies were annihilated, and himself unhurt.
"While he stood considering these things, he
heard a sound of a multitude singing 'Praises to the
valorous Prince Dulimond, who hath broken the
charms of Hell, and hath delivered us from the spells
of Holakaree. He turned and saw coming towards
him troops of knights and ladies, and at their head
a venerable old man, leading, as he thought, the La..
dy of the Golden Thumb.
"'Fear not, valorous prince,' said the aged knight
'your trials are past, and your reward is come: this
virgin is no enchantress.'
"'rhe happiness of Dulimond was extreme, when
tie was informed that Holakaree had assumed the
beautiful form of Bellimante; that the vile enchant-
ress was now no more: that his valour and virtue
had freed the most angelic princess of the universe,
her father, and many other noble knights and ladies,
who had fallen into her snares.' In his transport, he
cast himself at Bellimante's feet, and kissed her vir-
gin hand, which he was in ecstasy to find was not
now stigmatized by the Golden Thumb.
"As for the magician Tomogorod, he became dis-
consolate for the loss of h'is daughter; and, some say,
he now wonders over the face of the earth without ~
~ett1ed habitation, and that he is always attended iij
206

'F
f
'4'

THE BLEEDING FINGER.
one faithful demon, that assists him in his wants, and
revenges him upon his enemies..
"So ends the tale of the Bleeding Finger."
It is easy to imagine, what effect a story like this
would have upon John Audley and his dame Doro-
thy. Had not Mr. Errant, who was still attentive to
the supper, occasionally interrupted his narrative,
to remind his hostess of the pot's boiling, the cock
and bacon might have cooked themselves for Doro-~
thy. Blue hares, bleeding fingers, enchanted forests,
and the rest of the machinery, were things so amaz-
ing, so new, and so true to them, that gaping asto-
nishment, terror, and agitation, possess dt hem whol.-
ly. And though our narrator could not so far de..
grade his subject as to lower his language to their
exact scale of comprehen~ion, yet his fine words, and
figurative expressions gave, even at the fire-side of
John Atidley, a certain dignity to hi~ subject that
made it more wonderful.
It may be observed too, with what art Mr. Errant
threw in his touches, which, though in themselves
foreign, and of a heterogeneous nature to the sub..
ject, served his purpose. Thus, though the magician
was a character inconsistent with and superfluous to
the tale, he was not so to Mr. Errant. The insinua-.
tion, that he was attended by the devil in the shape
of a dog, was not lost upon .lohn Audley; and the
concluding sentence, that again revived this circum-
stance in his memory, had its due weight. In short,
John's imagination had been led such a dance, and
was so much disturbed, that he could not be said pre-
cisely to know, if he was sitting in a cottage, or in
an enchanted castle.
Mr. Errant had observed the incident of the bible,
as well as the wax that was attached to it; and,
waving his walking-stick in a circular and grave
manner, touched it, and demanded of John what it
was he had under him. John, who doubted whether
the stick was a stick, or the wand of Orophalis, re-
plied, with a trembling voice-" The-the-the bi~bible
207

1


MARVELLOUS REPOSITORY.
-bible, sir!" "The bible !~-~:are von sure it is the
bible-or are you sure it is actually there?" "I-I
believe so, sir." "Be so good as to rise and let rue
see." John trembled, rose, and looked, hut no bible
was there.-His hair would have lifted his hat off,
had it been on.~-~-" The Lord of heaven bless me
said John.-" Christ have mercy upon me !" ~v~Arhat
is that fastened to thy -?" said Dorothy. John
clapped his hand behind, and ejaculated-" The
Lord pardon me, miserable sinner; I am bewitch-
ed !" Mr. Errant could not forbear laughing at
~John's distress: it was truly ludicrous. John And-
Icy was fully convinced he was now more firmly
married to the bible than ever he had been to Doro-
thy herself; nay, and strange as it may seem, he
thought the last the worst match of the two. To
carry such a wen for life was not to be supported.
John fill on his knees,-" I pray and beseech you,
for the love of I-leaven's mercy, almighty. goodness,
and gr~ce, Mr. Conjurer. have pity on inc-I am a
poor, innocent man; I never meant to offend your
wor-shi~'s goodness; indeed, indeed, I never did !"
John did not perform his part solus; Dorothyprayed
as fast as he; and Mr. Errant, as soon as he could
for laughing, desired John to rise, and he would dis-
enchant him; which office he kindly and faithfully
performed: and, after a few consolitory sentences,
which Mr. Errant knew p~erfcctly well how to a(lapt,
he prevailed on his simple, but kind hosts, to prepare
for supper.
Had it not been for that powerful and universal
disturbed, Fear, it wouhf have been difficult to have
found, in a like number of persons, a more happy
fire-side, or one round which there was more true
content, and native simplicity of heart. Even this
very fear had something of pleasure in it, and some-\
thing enviable. It was a delirium of the soul, to be
at supper with an enchanter; to see a demon, in the
form of a dog, fixing his eyes upon them; and to sup-
pose that, if the mighty conjurer pleased, he could
208

THE BLEEDING FINGER.

turn their cottage into a palace, or fly with them
through the air, escorted by an army of spirits, to
the remotest l)arts of the earth. There is a large
portion of the sublime, even to philosophy, in such
ideas, notwithstanding their extravagance; but, to
the simrde and believing ~ou1, they form an incom-
j)rehenslble world of wonders, which though dread-
ful, it delights to contemplate.
rp~ present occasion could not fail to recall to
the imagination of John And Icy his own adventures
with the ghosts, and the stories he had heard others
relate. "An't please you," said John to Mr. Er-
~ "did you ever see the Shrieking Woman ?"
"No." " No! now I have seen her three times."
" And pray what kind of a lady is she?" " Why,
I'll tell- your honour. As I wur walking home one
night from Thomas O'Wilkins's, (I remember Dame
Dickinson had (hat very night been telling us a mod
of tales about ghosts) and so as I wur turning the
corner of Roger Fairley's barn, I saw, what I theui
thought to be a huge black cat; and so it run towards
the barn-door, and vanished. So, upon seeing it
vanish, I begun to bethink me; and, to tell you truth,
I wur almost afraid to go by the door where the huge
black cat vanished. So I stood still a bit to con~
sider; and, as sure as you are alive, I thought I smelt
a smell o' brimstone. So, to tell you the truth, I be-
gan to be mortagiously frightened and afraid! and
so, as I wur standing there, I heard the most wound
ui)roar, arid speaking and squalling, and scampering,
in the barn, that ever I heard sin' the hour I wur
born. So I bethought me, that this barn wur cer-
tainly a meeting place for witches and wizards;
and, what made it more likely, it wur Saturday
night, and the wind had just then began to blow as
thof heaven and earth would come together; so that,
what with the noise within and the noise without,
you never in all your life heard such a deadly din:
i'm. sure I never did; except~ indeed, the night that
old iMiser Gripegut died. Well, as I tell you, there
VoL. II.   52       B14      209

~Eyum.i

4..,
4' 4

a

1~


MARVELLOUS REPOSITOR'f.                              THE BLEEDING FINGER.

I stood, quite in a sound, and could neither stir foot
backward nor forward; and in a deadly taking, to
be sure, I wur, as you may well think: for you must
know, it came into my mind, that they might drag
me into the barn, and make a wizard o' me, wheth'-
er I would or no; nay, and I do assure you, I saw an
iml), in the very exact form of a rat, that came out
of the barn, and ran toward me, as fierce as thof it
xvur resolute to seize upon me: but, as Heaven would
have it, I started, and cried, 'God bless me!' and it
vanished. Well; and so as I wur tendingg there,
with my eye fixed upon the barn-door, for 1 durst no'
venture to turn my head the least in the world to
the right or to the left, all at once there war a dead
cold hand clapt to my cheek, and something at the
same time gave me such a whang on the back, that
down I fell, and I really thought there war an end o'
roe. But, however, for once it seems I war more
frightened than hurt, as I found afterwards, when
Dick 'Walter, or Dick Dare-devil, as he is called in
our parish, gave me his hand, and helped me up.
You may be sure, I war not, a little pleased; so I
told him the whole story of the Black Cat and the
clattering, and the devil's imp running at me to
make a wizard o' me, and all; and so he pretended
to laugh at me, and not to believe me, and not to put
no faith in such things; but that, as you may, sup-
pose, was all pretence, for I am certain every body
knows there is such things; because, why, does not
the bible tell us so? But Dick had a mind' to seem
fasheous, and fear nothing; though, to be sure, Dick
is as bold as a lion, and as strong as a horse, and
there is not a man in Lancashire dare to face him
fairly; but then, to be sure, he is deadly wicked and
profane; and I have heard him challenge Old Nick,
if he durst appear. And so I was so pleased to find
Dick, that I would take him down to Hal's at the
bottom of the hill, and gi' him a mug of ale. So
away we went; and when we came there, we found
Wil Tipler, the drunken shoemaker, along xvi' Farm-
210

LV
I

er U plon's tall Tom, who is six foot seven inches and
a half without his shoes; and so Dick would be a pint
to my pint; and Will he war another; and Tom war
another; and go on, till we made it very late; and so
you must know, my road home from Hal's lay over
(he stile and gate, where the Shrieking Woman com-
monly sits; but, you must know, by this time I had
got a drop in my head, and then, somehow or anoth-
ei', when one's in company wi' Dick, one never fears
nothing; and he is such a good-natured fellow too,
when nobody puts upon him, for he won't suffer no
man to fash and affront any man that he is in corn-
~xny xvi'; so, as I tell you, 1 had to go over the
Shrieking Woman's stile; so as I did no' half like it,
but war got pot-valiant, and would no' ask Dick to
go xvi' me, for I knew he'd game and laugh at me.
So away I set; and so, as I told you, a deadly windy
night it w ur; so, as sure as can be, when I had got a
bit from the house, I began to feel a forethought, and
to be partly sure that I should see her, and the far-
ther I went, the more I war certain; and so I began
heartily to wish I had got Dick or some one to come
wi' me: bat that was all over; so away I went wi'
my heart in my mouth, as I may say, and I wish
I may be hanged if my hair did not stand an end
every now and then wi' thinking on't. Well; so as
I tell you, I kept going my gait a thisen till I came
almost wi' my nose upon the stile ; but I should have
told you, it war most mortagious dark, for the moon
war gone down, and the night war as black as pitch.
I believe in my heart the heavens never sent out or
saw a more murky welkin: The sky war like a bag
of soot. So, as I tell you, I had got Wi' my very nose
almost upon the stile, when all of a sudden I saw her
rise from l)ehind the hedge, as it were, and place
herself upon the stile. Lord! how my knees knock-
ed together! At first I had not the power to move
hand or limb; and [do think I stood for some min-
utes, with no more life in me than an oyster; am
then, when I came a little to myself, my teeth chat-
211


MARVELLOUS REPOSITORY~
tered, and I dithered as thof I had been in an agiie.
so what to do I (lid na know, for if I turned back she
would walk before me. So I bethought me it Wur
best to put my trust in my maker, and to say the
Lord's prayer, and so go a bit lower down along the
hedge, where there war a gate, Well, will you be-
lieve me, as sure as I sit on this stool, ~when I came
to the gate, ther~ war she again. 'The Lord or
heaven's goodness deliver me,' thought I, 'what will
become o' me!' And so, do you know, all the sins
that ever I had committed began to come into my
head. I bethought me o' the five apples I had stoleii
when I went to school with old Dame Trott o' Pres~
cot; and of the bastard I had by haif-witted Mall o'
the Hill, before I war four and twenty; and o' the
rohin-redbreast I shot instead of a crow; and the
~lver groat that I found the first year I was made
clerk o' this parish, which I wickedly spent at the
fair instead of giving notice on't at the church-door,
a.~ I ought to have done; and moreover, of haVing
the very Sunday before fallen asleep in sarmunt
tiaie, and what war worser, when his reverence, the
vicar, wur in the pulpit, and not the curate; which
his reverence afterwards told me, in the Vestry, war
breaking the commandments, and an abomination to
the Lord. So, as I tell you, I began to pray to the
gracious providence of marcy, for deliverance and
forgiveness pf my sins; for, to be sure, as I have told
you, a wicked sinner I had been; so, while as I wur
here, in this most dismal and terrible astoundifica-
tion, some how or another, I found she war vanished
and disappeared, and wur gone; so I then fell upon
my knees, and thanked the grace of heavenly good-
ness, and the Lord of Hosts, and the Almighty Maker
of heaven and earth, and the God of Israel, for all hi~
manifold merciful loving kindness to me, a poor
wicked and unworthy sinner; and so I begun to put
my trust in him' and so, seeing as I did not see her
any longer, I ventured by little and little toiv'rd
the gate; and so at last I laid my hand upon't, and
~I2

*
44.

THE BLEEDING FrNGER.

then one foot, and then t'other; and so at last I got
o' the other side o' the hedge, .ind so I war fain to
walk by the hedge side for fear o' losThg myself, it
wur so mortagious dark, as [tell you; and so, as I
wur walking along, I thought I heard a whispering
o' t'other side o' the hedge; and I am not a christian
soul in the land o' the living, if it wur not as like the
whispering of men's voices as my right hand is to my
left; and so my hair began to bristle as bad almost
as before, and I stopt; and sowhen I stopt, the whis-
pering vanished: but I heard a mortagious running,
and a scampering, and a clattering o' feet, o' t'other
side o' the hedge, which I could compare to nothing
but a parcel of devils running a race towards the
stile; and, for all we know well enough that spirits'
bodies are not bodies, I'm sure they made as great a
clattering as thof they had had legs and feet of flesh
and blood. Well' so I war now, as I thought, o' the
right side o' the hedge, so I kept my gait till'I came
to the stile; and seeing as I saw nothing of her there,
I began to have some hopes that she war gone for
good and all; so I set forward again toward home,
and begun to bethink me that I had got something
to talk about as long as I lived; but will you believe
me? I had not gone half the field's length, till I saw
her again walking right before me! 'The Lord oi
heavenly blessedness defend me!' thought I; ' what
will become o' me!' I stopt, and she stopt-I took
heart, and made two or three steps-an(l so (lid she.
Never since I war a shiner war I in such a quanda-
ry before! What could I do? If a man is so fear-
ful as to turn back, I had always been told, she is so
mischievous she will twine his neck roun(l, mayhap.
or blight him i' the eyes, or somewhat like, as she
struck Goody Hazel a box o' the ear, and she has
been (leaf o' that side ever sin. So, as I said, what
could I do? Why, I prayed to the Lord, and thought
I would keep on my gait as long as she was that dis-
tance before me. I should have told you, tho', she
war all in white, or else, as you may think, I could
~l 3

-.~.


MARVELLOUS REPOSITORY.

no a' seen her; there wur not a sheet in all Lanca4
shire whiter than she; and at first she did na seem
so high as my breast, and she walked as thof she were
partly lame, or crouching on the hams; and so I had
na followed her far, before she began to get higher
and hi~her?-and higher and higher!-and higher
and higher !-till at last, Lord Almighty bless me!
she wur taller than any tree in Eccleston parish, or
the next to it, I am positive !-Marcy's goodness be.
upon me, what a condition I wur in! Well; and so,
would you believe it? when she wur at the tallest,
she turned about, and gave such a stride tow r'ds me!
and a skreek; and, as [ suppose, vanished; for 1
dropped down as dead as this trencher; and there,
as heaven's marcy would have it, wur found by Dick
Walters and TaII Tom; and so they, seeing me so
frightened, (for I did na stir out of my bed for a
week) wanted to persuade me that it wur nowt but
a trick o' theirs to scare me; but, however, I wur
na such a fool as to believe'm~ as you may well think,
after what I had seen and heard.'
John Audley ended; and his looks, while relating,
were sufficient to convince the hearer what his sen~
stations must have been while his wicked companions
were playing him the trio.k he had just recounted.
Mr. Errant had been much among the simple in-
habitants of villages, and knew how impossible it is
to cure those who have once contracted the disease
of credulity: he knew too, there is in every district
a Dick Daredevil, who diverts himself at the ex-
pense of those whose faculties or bodies are not so
robust as his own.

214

WITCHCRAFT.

WITCHCRAFT.

LORD Chief Justice Holt, who was very wild in his
youth, was once out with some of his companions on
a journey into the country. They had spent all
their money, and, after many consultations what to
do, it was resolved they should part company, and
try their fortune separately. bit got to a public-
house at the end of a straggling village, and putting
a good face on the matter, ordered his horse to be
well taken care of, called for a room, bespoke supper,
and a bed. He then strolled into the kitchen, where
he saw a young lass, about thirteen years of ~ge,
shivering with an ague; he inquired of his landlady,
a widow, who the girl was, and how long she had
been ill. The good woman told him that she was
her daughter, an only child, and that she had been
ill near a year, notwithstanding all the assistance
she could procure from physie, at an expense which
had been almost her ruin. HoIt shook his head at
the mentiiin of the doctors, and bade the woman be
under no farther concern, for that her daughter
should not have another fit. He then wrote a few
unintelligible words, in court band, on a scrap of
parchment, which had been the direction to an
hamper, and rolling it up, ordered that it should be
bound upon the girl's wrist, and remain there till
she was well. As it happened, the ague returned
no more, and Holt having continued there a few
days, called for his bill with as much courage as if
his pockets had been filled with gold. C~ Ah! God
bless you," says the old woman, "you are nothing in
my debt, I'm sure: I wish I was able to pay you for
the cure you have performed upon roy daughter;
and if I had but been fortunate enough to see you
ten months ago, it would have saved me forty pounds
in my pocket." Holt, after a little altercation, ac-
21~


MARVELLOUS REPOSITORY.

cepted of his accommodation as a gratuity, and rode
away.
It happened that many years afterwards, when he
was one of the justices of the King's Bench, he went
a circuit into the same county, and among other
criminals brought before him, was an old woman
charged with witchcr~aft; to support which accuse
lion, several witnesses, sii~ore that she had a spell,
with which she could either cure such cattle as were
sick, or destroy those that were well: in the use of
this, they said, she had been lately detected, and it
having been seized uponijer, was ready to be pro.
duced in court; and the judge upon this desired that
it might be handed up to him. It appeared to be a
dirty ball, covered with rags, and bound many times
round with packthread; these coverings he removed
with great deliberation, one after another; and at
last found a piece of parchment, which he knew to
he the same that he had used as an expedient to sup-
p1y his want of money. At the recollection of this
incident he changed colour, and sat silent: at length,
recollecting himself, he addressed the jury to this
effect: "Gentlemen, I must now relate a particular
of my life which very ill suits my present character,
and the station in which I sit; but to conceal it
would be to aggravate the folly for which I ought to
atone, endanger innocence, and countenance su-
perstition: this bauble, which some of you suppose
to have the power of life and death, is a senseless
scrawl, whieivl.wrote with my own hand, and gave
to this woman, whomi'or no other cause, you ac-
cuse as a witch."-He then related the circumstances
of the transaction, and it had such an effect upon the
minds of the people, that Judge Holt's landlady was
the last person tried in that county for witchcraft.
~Z16

THE
MYSTERIOUS PACK.

IN the year I7~8, Colonel Ridley returned from
India, with what, in those days, was accounted an
immense fortune, and retired to a country seat on
the hanks of North Tyne, in Northumberland. He
went to London annually with his family, during a
few of the winter months, and at these times there
were but few left at his country house. At the time
we treat of, there were only three domestics remain-
ed there; a maid servant, whose name was Alice,
kept the house, and there were besides, an old man
and a boy, the one threshed the corn, and the other
took care of some cattle.
One afternoon as Alice was sitting spinning some
yarn for a pair of stockings for herself, a peddler en-
tered the hall with a comical pack on his back. Alice
had seen as long a pack, and as broad a p ack; but a
pack equally long, broad, and thick, shed declared
she never saw. It was about the middle of winter,
when the days were short, and the nights cold, long,
and wearisome. The peddler was a handsome, well-
dressed man, and very likely to be a very agreeable
companion for such a maid as Alice, on such a night
as that; yet Alice declared, that from the very first
she did not like him greatly, and though he introduc-
ed himself with a little rib al dry, and a great deal of
flattery interlarded, yet when he came to ask a
night's lodging, he met with a peremptory refusal;
he jested on the subject, said he believed she was in
the right, for that it would scarcely be safe to trust
him under the same roof with such a sweet and beau-
tiful creature-Alice was an old maid, and any thing
but beautiful-He then took her on his knee, caress-
VOL.   rr                  ~l7

J I
F

i    I


MARVELLOUS REPOSITORY.                             TIlE MYSTERIOUS PACE

ed and kissed her, but all would not do. 'No, sne
would not consent to his staying there.' 'But are
you really going to put me away to night ?' 'Yes.'
'indeed, my deargiri, you must not be so unreasona
ble; I am come straight from Newcastle, where I
have been purchasing a fresh stock of goods, which
are so i.eavy, that I cannot travel far with them, and
as the people around are all of the poorer sort, I will
rather ma ~e you a present of the finest shawl in my
pack before I go further.' At the mentioning of the
shawl, the picture of deliberation was portrayed in
lively colours on Alice's face for a little; but her
prudence overcame. 'No, she was but a servant,
and had orders to harbour no person about the house
but such as came on business, nor these either, unle
she was well acquainted with them.' 'What tir.
worse can you, or your master, or any one else be, o.
sufferingmeto tarry until the morning?' 'lentreat
iyou do not insist, for here you cannot be.' ' But in-
deed, I am not able to carry my goods further to
night.' 'Then you must leave them, or get a horse
to carry them away.' 'Of all the sweet inflexible
beings that ever were made, you certainly are the
chief. But I cannot blame you; your resolution is
just and right. Well, well, since no better may be,
71 must leave them, and go search for lodgings myself
somewhere else, for, fatigued as I am, it is as much
as my life is worth to endeavour carrying them fur-.
ther.' Alice was rather taken at her word: she
wanted nothing to do with 'his goods: the man was
displeased at her, and might accuse her of stealing
some of them: but it was an alternative she had
posed, and against which she could start no plausible
objection; so she consented, though with much reluc-
tance. 'But the pack will be better out of your
way,' said he, 'and safer, if you will be so kind as to
lock it by in some room or closet.' She then led him
into a low parlour,, where he placed it carefully on
two chairs, and went his way, wishing Alice a good
night.
213

When old Alice and the pack were lefl together in
the large house by themselves, she felt a kind of tin-
defined terror come over her mind about it. 'What
can be in it,' said she to herself, 'that makes it so
heavy ? Surely when the man carried it this length,
he might have carried it farther too. It is a con-
founded queer pack; I'll go and look at it once again,
and see what I think is in it; an(l suppose I should
handle it all round, [may then perhaps have a good
guess what is in it.
Alice went cautiously and fearfully into the par-
lour and opened a wall-press: she wanted nothingin
the press, indeed she never looked into it, for her
eyes were fixed on the pack, and the longer she
looked at it, she liked it the worse; and as to hand-
ling it, she would not have touched it for all it con-
tained. She went again into the kitchen and, con-
versed with herself. She thought of the man's earn-
estness to leave it; of its monstrous shape, and every
circumstance connected with it; they were all mys-
terioa~, and she was convinced in her own mind,
there was something uncanny, if not unearthly in
the pack.
~Vhat surmises will not fear give rise to in the
mind of a woman! She lighted a moulded candle, and
went again into the parlour, closed the shutters, and
barred them; but before she came out, she set herself
upright, held in her breath, and took another steady
and scrutinizing lqok at the sack. God of mercy!
She saw it moving, as visible as- she ever saw any
thing in her life. Every hair on her head stood up-
right. Every inch of flesh on her body crept like a
nest of pismires. She hastened into the kitchen as
fast as she could, for the knees bent under the terror
that had overwhelmed the heart of poor Alice. She
puffed out the candle, lighted it again, and, not be..
ing able to find a candlestick, though a dozen stood
an the shelf in the kitchen, she set it in a water-jug,
and ran out to the barn for old Richard. 'Oh Rich-
ard! Oh for mercy, Richard, rnakehaste, and come
219


MARVELLOUS REPOSITORY.
into the house. Come away Richard.' 'Why, what
is the matter Alice? what is wrong?' 'Oh, Rich-
ard! a peddler came into the hail entreating for lodg-
iig. Well, I would not let him stay on any account,
and hehold, he is gone off and left his pack.' And
what is the great matter of that?' said Richard. 'I
will wager a penny he will look after it, before it
shall look after him.' 'But oh Richard, I tremble to
tell you! We are all gone, for it is a living pack.'
'A living pack!' said Richard, and staring at Alice,
and letting his chops fall down. Richard had just
lifted his flail over his head to begin threshing a
sheaf; but when he heard of a living pack, he drop~
ped one end of the hand-staifto the floor, and leaning
on the other, took such a look at Alice. He knew
long before that Alice was beautiful, he knew that
ten years before, but ver took such a look at her in
his life. 'A living p~t~!' said Richard. 'Why the
woman is mad without all doubt.' 'Oh, Richard!
come away. Heaven knows what is in it! but I saw
itmovingas plainly aslsee you at present. Make
haste, and come away Richard.' Richard did not
stand to expostulate any longer, nor even to put on
his coat, but followed Alice into the house, assuring
her by the way, that it was nothing but a whim, and
of a piece with many of her phantasies, 'But,'
added he, 'of all the foolish ideas that ever possessed
your brain, this is the most unfeasible, unnatural, and
impossible. How can a pack, made up of napkins,
and muslins, and cordu-r-oy breeches, perhaps, ever
become alive? It is even worse than to suppose a
horse's hair would turn an eel.' So saying, he lifted
the candle out of the jug, and turning about, never
slopped till he had his hand upon the pack. He felt
the deals that~ surrounded its edge to prevent the
goods being rumpled and spoiled by carrying, the
cords that bound it, and the canvass in which it was
wrapped. 'The pack was well enough, he found
nought about it that other packs wanted. It was
just like other packs made up of the same stuff. He

I -

.44,
"Iv'.
.bv .4
~1 4

'4f 4
1' 4
U      3    4

TIlE MYSTERIOUS PACK.
saw nought that ailed it. It would cost the honest
man ~Z0Ol. if not more. It would cost him 300 or
3501. if the goods were fine. But he would make it
again by cheating fools like Alice with his gewgaws.'
Alice testified some little disappointment at seeing
Richard unconvinced, even by ocular proof. She
wished she had never seen him or it hoxvsomever;
for she was convinced there was something mysteri-
ous about it; that they were stolen goods or some-
thing that way; and she was terrified to stay in the
house with it. But Richard assured her that the
pack was a right enough pack.
During this conversation, in comes Edward. He
wa~ a lad about sixteen years of age, son to a coal-
(iriver on the border-was possessed of a good deal
of humour and ingenuity, but somewhat roguish, for-
ward, and commonly very ragged in his apparel. He
was about this time wholly intent on shooting the
crows and birds, that alighted in whole flocks where
he foddered the cattle. He had bought a large old
military gun, which he denominated Copenhagen~
and was continually thundering away at them. He
seldom killed any, if ever; but he once or twice
knocked ofi' a few feathers, and after much narrow
inspection, discovered some drops of blood on the
snow. He was at this very moment come in great
haste for Copenhagen, having seen a glorious chance
of sparrows, and a Robin-red-breast among them,
feeding on a site of a corn rick; but hearing them
talk of something mysterious, and a living pack, he
pricked up his ears and was all attention. 'Faith,
Alice,' said he, 'if you will let me, I'll shoot it.'
Hold your peace, you fool,' said Richard. Edward
took the candle from Richard, who still held it in his
hand, and, gliding down the passage, edged up the
parlour door, and watched the pack attentively for
about two minutes. He then came back with a
spring, and with looks very different from those
which regulated his features as he went down. As,
sure as he had death to meet with he saw it stirring

7


MARVELLOUS REPOSITORY.
'Hold your peace, you fool,' said Richard. Edward
sWore again that he saw it stirring; but whether he
really thought so, or only said so is hard to determine.
'Faith Alice,' said he again, 'if you will let me, I'll
shoot it.' 'I tell you to hold your peace, you fool,'
Said Richard. 'No,' said Edward, ~'in the multi-
tude of counsellors there is safety; and I maintain
this to ~e our safest plan. Oar master's house is coti-
signed to our care, and the wealth that it contains
may tempt some people to use stratagems. Now, if
we open this man's pack, he may pursue us for dama-
ges to any amount, but if I shoot it, what amends can
he get of me? If there is any thing that should not
be there, Lord how I will pepper it! And if it is
lawful goods, he can only make me pay for the few
that are damaged, which I will get at valuation; so,
if none of you will acquiesce, I will take all the blame
ul)on myself, and Ware a shot upon it.' Richard said
whatever was the consequence he would be blameless.
A half delirious smile rather distorted than beauti-
fied Alice's pretty face, but Edward took it for an
assent to what he had been advancing, so, snatching
up Copenhagen in one hand, and the candle in the
other, he wasted down the passage, and without hesi-
tating one moment, fired at the pack. Gracious
Heaven! The blood gushed on the floor like a tor-
rent, and a hideous roar, followed by the groans of
death, issued from the pack. Edward dropped Co-
p~iihagen on the ground, and ran into the kitchen
ike one distracted.
The kitchen was dark, for he had left the candle
in the parlour; so taking to the door without being
able to utter a word, he ran to the hills like a wild
roe, looking over each shoulder as fast as he could
turn his head from the one side to the other. Alice
followed as fast as she could, but lost half the way of
Edw~ rd~ She was all the time sighing and crying
most pitifully. Old Richard stood for a short space
rather in a state of petrifaction; but, at length
iome hasty ejaculations, he went in to  ,after
the parlour.

~~HE MYSTERIOUS PACI~.

4~ 21
4

I I

'I he whole floor flowed with blood. The pack hail
thrown itself on the ground; but the groans and cries
had ceased, and only a kind of guttural noise was
heard from it. Knowing that something must be
done, he ran after his companions and called on them
to come back. Though Edward had escaped a good
way and was still persevering on, yet, as he never
took long time to consider of the utility of any thing,
but acted from immediate impulse, he turned and
came as fast back as he had gone away. Alice
also came homeward, but more slowly, and crying
even more bitterly than before.
They were soon all three in the parlour, and in no
little terror and agitation of mind unloosed the pack,
the. principal commodity of which was a stout young
man, whom Edward had shot through the heart, ~nd
thus bereaved of existence in a few minutes. To
paint the feelings, or even the appearance of young
Edward during this scene, is impossible; he acted
little, spoke less, and appeared in a hopeless stupor;
the most of his employment consisted in gulping
down mouthfuls of breath, wipinghis eyes, and star-
ing at his associates. It is most generally believed,
that when Edward fired at the pack, he had not the
most distant idea of shooting a man ; but seeing Alice
so jealous of it, he thought the colonel would approve
of his intrepidity, and protect him from being wrong-
ed by the pedler; and besides, he had never got a
chance of a shot at such a large thing in his life, and
was curious to see how many folds of the pedler's fine
haberdashery ware Copen~iagen would drive the
drops through. They made al I possible speed in ex-
tricating the corpse, intending to call medical assist-
amice, but it was too late; the vital spark was gone
for ever. 'Alas!' said old Richard, heaving a deep
sigh, 'poor man, 'tis all over with him! I wish he
bad lived a little longer to have repented of this, for
he has surely died in a bad cause. Poor man! he
was somebody's son, and no do~bt dear to them, and
nobody can tell how small a rime this hath, by a
~23


MARVELLOUS REPOSITORY.
regularr gradation, become the fruits of'.' Rithard
came twice across his eyes with the sleeve of his
shirt, for he still wanted his coat; a thought of a
tender nature shot through his heart. 'Alas, if his
parents are alive how will their hearts bear this, p~r
creatures!' said Richard weeping outright, 'poor
creatures! God pity them!' The way that he was
packed up was artful anti curious. His knees were
brought up towards his breast, and his feet and legs
stuffed in a wooden box; another box, a size larger;
and wanting the bottom, made up the vacancy be.
twixt his face and knees, and there being only one
fold of canvass aroi~nd this, he breathed with the
greatest freedom; but it had undoubtedly been the
heaving of his breast which had caused the move-
ment noticed by the servants. His right ar~n was
within the box, and to his hand was tied a cutlass,
with which he could rip himself from his confinement
at once. There were also four loaded pistols secreted
with him, and a silver wind-calL On coming to the
pistols and cutlass, 'Villain,' said old Richard, 'see
what he has here. But I should not call him villain.'
said he, again softening his tone, 'for he has now
gone to answer at that bar where no false witness,
nor loquacious orator, can bias the justice of the sen-
tence pronounced on him. He is now in the true
world, and I am in the false one. We can judge
only from appearances, but thanks to our kind Maker
and Preserver, that he was discovered, else it is
probable that none of us shoiild~ have again sepn the
ightof day.' These moral reflections from the
mouth of old Richard by degrees raised the spirits of
Edward; he was~bewildered in uncertainty, and had
undoubtedly given himself up for lost; but he now
began to discover that he had done a meritorious and
manful action, and for the first time, since he had
fired the fatal shot, ventured to speak. 'Faith itwas
lucky that I shot then,' said Edward; but neither of
his companions answered good or bad. Alice, though
rather grown desperate, behaved and assisted at this
224

THE MYSTERIOUS PACK.
otoody affair, better than might have been expected.
Edward surveyed the pistols all round, two of which
were of curious workmanshi~. 'But what do you
think he was going to do with all these?' said Ed-
ward.- 'I think you need not ask that,' Richard an-
swered. 'Faith it was a mercy that I shot after all,'
said Edward, 'for if we had loosed him out, we
should have' been all dead in a minute. [have given
him a devil of a broad-side, though. But look ye,
Richard, Providence has directed me to the right
5j)O1, for I might as readily have lodged the contents
of Copenhagen in one of these empty boxes.' 'It has
been a deep-laid scheme,' said Richard, 'to murder
us, and rob our master's house; there must certainly
be more concerned in it than these two.'
Ideas beget ideas, often quite different, and then
others again in unspeakable gradation, which run
through and shift in the mind with as much velocity
as the streamers around the pole in a frosty night.
On Richard's mentioning more concerned, Edward
instantaneously thought of a gang of thieves by night.
How be would break the leg of one, shoot another
through the head, and scatter them like chaff before
the wind. He would rather shoot one robber on his
feet or on horseback than ten lying tied up in 1)acks;
and then what a glorious prey of pistols he would get
frotu the dead rascals; how he would prime and load
and fire away in perfect safety from within! how
Alice would scream, and Richard would pray, and
all would go on with the noise and rapidity of a wind-
mill, and he would acquire everlasting fame. So
high was the young and ardent mind of Edward
wrought up by this train of ideas, that he was strid-
ing up and down the floor, while his eyes gleamed as
with a tint of madness. 'Oh! if I had but plenty of
guns. and nothing ado but to shoot, how I woul(l pep-
per the dogs!' said he with great. vehemence, to the
no small astonishment of his two associates, who
thought him gone mad. 'What can the fool mean?'
said Richard, 'what can he ail at the dogs?' 'Oh, it
B15

0

4

t
6
1


'4
'I
I
~i I
I    ~
'1

THE MYSTERiOUS PACIC.

MARVELLOUS REPOSITORY
is the robbers that I mean,' said Edwart4 'What
robbers, you young fool?' said Richard. 'Why,
do you not think that the peddler will come back at
the dead of the night to the assistance of' his friend,
and bring plenty of help with him too,' said Ed..
ward. 'There is not a doubt of' it,' said Alice, and
~both stood up stiff with fear and astonishment. '01),
merciful heaven! what is to become of us,' said Alice
again, 'what are we to do?' 'Let us trust in the
Lord,' said old Richard. ' I intend, in the first
place, to trust in old Copenhagen,' said Edward,
putting down the frizzel, and making it spring up
again with a loud snap five or six times, 'but, good
Lord! what are we thinking about? i'll run and
gather in all the guns in the county.'
The impulse oi'the moment was Edward's monitor.
Off he..ran like fire, and warned a few of the Colo-
nel's retainers, who he knew kept guns about them;
these again warned others, and at eight o'clock they
had twenty-five men in the house and sixteen loaded
pieces, including Copenhagen, and the four pistols
found on the deceased. These were distributed
amongst the front windows in the upper stories, and
the rest armed with pitch-forks, old swords, and cud-
gels, kept watch below. Edward had taken care to
place himself with a comrade, at a window immedi~.
ately facing the approach to the house, and now,
backed as he was by such a strong party, grew quite
impatient for another chance with his redoubted Co-
penhagen. All, however, remained quiet, until an
our ast midnight, when it entered into his teeming
brain to blow the thief's silver wind-call ; so, without
warning any of the rest, he set his head out at the
window, and blew irntil all the hills and woods,
around yelled their echoes. This alarmed the guards,
as not knowing the~meaning of it; but how were
they astonished at hearing it answered by another at
no great distance. rrhe state of anxiety into which
this su(lden and unforeseen circumstance threw our
a~'med peasants, is more easily conceived than de~
226

iJij 4
I ~
V ~
L         4

ascribed. The fate of their master's great wealth,
and even their own fates, wa~ soon to be decided,
and none but He wh~ surveys and over-rules futurity
could tell what was to be the issue. Every breast
heaved quicker, every breath was cut short, every
gun was cocked and pointed toward the court-gate,
every orb of vision was strained to discover the ap-
proaching foe, by the dim light of the starry canopy,
and eve~y ear expanded to catch the distant sounds
as they floated on the slow frosty breeze.
'rhe suspense was not of long continuance. In
less than five minutes the trampling of horses was
heard, which increased as they approached to the
noise of thunder, and in due course~ a body of men
on horseback, according to the account given by the
Colonel's people, exceeding their own number, came
up to a brisk trot, and began to enter the court-gate.
Edward, unable to restrain himself any longer, fired
Copenhagen in their faces; one of the i'oremost drop-
ped, and his horse, made a spring towards the halt
door. This discharge was rather premature, as the
wall still shielded a part of the gang from the win-
dows. It was, however, the watch-word to all the
rest, and in the course of two seconds, the whole six-
teen guns were discharged at them. Before the
smoke dispersed they were all fled, no doubt greatly
amazed at the receptic~i which they met with. Ed-
ward and his comrade ran down stairs to see how
matters stood, for it was their opinion that they had
shot them every one, and that their horses had taken
fright at the noise, and gallopped off without them;
but the club below warmly protested against their
opening any of the doors till day, so they were oblig-
ed to beta ke themselves again to their birth up
stairs.
'Vhough our peasants had gathered a little courage
and confidence in themselves, their situation was cu-
rious, and to them a dreadful one; they saw and
heard a part of their fellow-creatures moaning and
expiring in agonies in the open air, which was in-
227


II j ~
[4

MARVELLOUS REPOSITORY.
tensely cold, yet durst not go to administer the least
relief, for fear of a surprise. An hour or two after
this great brush, Edward and his messmate descend-
ed again, and begged hard for leave to go and recon-
noitre for a few minutes, which after some disputes
was granted. They foundonly four men fallen, who
appeared to be all quite dead.-One of them was
lying within the porch. 'Faith,' said Edward,
'here's the chap that I shot.' The other three were
without at a considerable distance from each other.-
They durst not follow their track farther~ as the road
entered betwixt groves of trees, but retreated into
their posts without touching any thing.
About an hour before day, some of them were
alarmed at hearing the sound of horses feet a second
time, which however, was only indistinct and, heard
at considerable intervals, an&amp; nothing of them ever
appeared. Not long after this, Edward and his
friend were almost frightened out of their wits, at
seeing, as they thought, the dead man within the
gate, endeavoring to get up and escape. They had
seen him dead, lying surrounded by a deluge of con-
gealed blood, an4 nothing but the ideas of ghosts and
hobgoblins entering their brains, they were so indis-
creet as never to think of firing, but ran and told the
tale of horror to some of their neighbours. The sky
was by this time grown so dark, that nothing could
be seen with precision, and they all remained in
anxious incertitude, until the opening day discoVered
to them, by degrees, the corpses were removed, and
nothing left but large sheets of frozen blood; the
morning's alarms by the ghost and the noise of hor-
ses, having been occasioned by some of the friends of
the men that had fallen, conveying them away for
fear of a discovery.
Next morning the news flew like fire, and the
three servants were much incommoded by crowds of
idle and officious people that gathered about the
house, some inquiring after the particulars, some
begging to see the body that lay in the parlour, and
228

I

II

4:

THE MYSTERIOUS PACIC.
others pleasing themselves with poring ovei the sheets
of crimson ice, and tracing the drops of blood on the
road down the wood. On the arrival of the Colonel,
advertisements were issued, and posted up in all pub-
hc places offering rewards for a discovery of any per-
son killedor wounded of late. All the dead and sick
within twenty miles were inspected by medical men,
and a most extensive search made, l)ut to no purpose.
It was too late; all was secured. Some indeed were
missing, but plausible pretences being made for their
absence, nothing could be done. But certain it is,
sundry of these were never seen any more in the.
count ry, though many of the neighbourhood declared
they were such people as no body gould suspect.
The body of the unfortunate man who was shot in
the pack lay open for inspection a fortnight, but none
would ever acknowledge so much as having seen him.
The Colonel then caused him to be buried at Belling-
ham; but it was confidently reported, that his grave
was opened and his corpse taken away. In short,
not one engaged in this base and bold attempt was
ever discovered. A constant watch was kept by
night for some time. The Colonel rewarded the
defenders of his house liberally. Old Richard re-
mained in the family during the rest of his life, and
had a good salary f6r only saying prayers, amongst
the servants every night. Alice was married to a
tobacconist at Hexham. Edward was made the
Colonel's gamekeeper, and had a present of a fine
gold-niounted gun given him. His master afterwards
procured him a commission in a regiment of foot,
Mrhere he suffered many misfortunes and disappoint-
ments. He was shot through the shoulder at the
battle of Fontenoy, but recovered, and retiring on
half-pay, took a small farm on the Scottish side. His
character was that of a brave, but rash officer~ kind,
generous, and openhearted in all situations. I have
often stood at his knee and listened with amazement
to his stories of battles and sieges, but none of them
ever pleased me better than that of the Long Pack.
VOL. ii.  U                  229


THE!

CONJUROR.

A ~oou old villager, who went in the country by
the appellation of Robin, that had always earned his
bread by the sweat~ of his brow, and to whom a
morsel of fat bacon was a princely meal, had heard
so much said in commendation of delicious fare, as
partridges, pheasants, ortolans, and such like; and
those nectareous liquors Burgundy and Champaign,
that he longed so ardently for such a regale as to
think he would be very well contented to die, provid-
ed he might first be permitted to satisfy his longing.
Necessity is the mother of invention. Robin,
whose ability was far from sufficient to procure those
dainties, hit upon a scheme that he imagined would
infallible procure him success. He resolved to travel
to a distant part of the country, where he was not
knowt~, and to take upon him the title of a con
a profession which has ever commanded great res-
pect both in town and country; and that in case any
person whose wit proved lighter than his purse,
should be fool enough to confide in his art, he
would stipulate for three dainty repasts before his
oracle should deign to break silence.
Before he set out on his expedition (what will per-
baps seem very surprising to most of our readers who
*re uninspired of the muses,) he weighed in a just
f~SQ

THE CONJUROR.

I

-U-

* and tqual balance the dainties he promised himself
to enjoy, against the kicks and cuffs he must inerit~-
bly receive when found out to be an impostor; and,
lo! the kicks and cuffs turned the beam. And now
having equipped himself with a large hairy cap made
of the skin of a badger, a p air of whiskers in which a
Spaniard might have taken pride, and a common
prayer-book in old print, by way of a conjuring-hook,
heb ade adieu to his village, and directed his steps to
more populous cities; pubiishing~wherever he caine
his ore at and profound science in the art of divi-
nation.
He arrived at length at the hospitable gates of Sir
'rony Simpleton, Baronet, with whom most of our
readers we presume are acquainted; for no family in
Britain can boast of a more extensive progeny. Their
origin is easily traced beyond the deluge, and their
illustrious ancestors have often wielded the royal
sceptre. Now so it happened that a day or two be-
fore the arrival of honest I3~obin, fhree of Sir Tony's
servants, who had long since formed a combination
against a certain diamond ring of great value, which
Lady Simpleton usually wore on her finger; and
having found it straying upon her toilette had seized
it as a lawful prize, with an intent to dispose of it
the first opportunity, and share the spoil among
themselves. My lady, afflicted for the loss of her
brilliant, hearing of the fame of our conjuror which
had by this time spread all over the country, resolv-
ed to apply to him, in order to gain intelligence of it.
My lady was struck with most reverential awe at
the venerable appearance of our conjuror, who acted
his part to the life. 'Madam, (said he,) it is need-
less for you to enter into any detail of your loss. I
know, by virtue of the occult science which I pro-
fess, that you have lost your diamond ring; and am
much better acquainted with every circumstance
than your ladyship.'-' Good God! (cried my lady,
amazed that the~conjuror should be acquainted with
what every body in the town knew as weJ~ as him
231


I-.--

'4
4
~1
'4
44
44,44,44: '1'

THEL 40NJUROR,

MARV~LLOU5 RT~PQSIT0RY.
self,) what a wonderful man[what a fine thing it is
tobe a conjuror!'
She now began to enquire very earnestly whether
she might entertain any hopes of recovering her
ring? Robin with the utmost gravity assured her
that within the space of t!~ree days he woul(l produce
the ring, though it lay at the bottom of mount Etna.
'But, (added he, the search will be attended with
some expense.) Lady Simpleton told him, she
would not hesitate at paying him any reasonable
gratuity, as she had a great value for the ring.'
Madam, (replied Robin, we conjurors are above any
mercenary views. All I demand is, that, during the
three days I consult the motion of the l)lanets, Von
will give orders for my being entertained in a man-
ncr suitable to the dignity of a wizard of nay impor-
tance; for we conjurors, you must know, differ
widely from the studios in other arts and sciences,
who improve most upon a slender diet: we, on the
contrary, always study best upon a full stomach; and
the richer our fare the greater progress we make in
our studies.' Lady Simpleton told him his demands
were too modest not to be complied with, and imme-
diately ordered him to be conducted to QflC of the
best apartments in the house, laying strict injunc-
tions upon the cook to obey his commands to a tittle.
The cook~aving put on his cleanest cap and apron,
waited upon the conjuror, and with much scraping
ani~ cringing desired to know what his honour would
be pleased to order for supper. Robin, finding the
lady had left.him a carte blanche, made a catalogue
of the choicest viands he could think of, and de-
sired to have them all by rotation. The cook tossed
him up a fricassee of chickens in a trice, which with
a brace of partridges and a custard, composed a pret-
ty sort of a repast-The eyes of our conjuror spark-
led with joy at the sight of so delicious a banquet.
He tucked his napkin under his chin; and being a
man of business scorned to leave a~bone unpicked.
Having supped to his heart's content, and closed his
282

~, :9
ii ~:

entertainment with a cheerful bottle of claret, he re
p aired to his downy bed in the pleasing thoughts of
his three repasts which were yet to come.
The next morning, as soon as it was well light,
Robin,, got to carousing again, and remained up to
the chin in grease till bed-time; when the fumes of
the generous liquors he had quaffed all day mounting
into his pericranium so intoxicated him that he could
hardly stand: he made shift, however, though not
without macli difficulty, to reel to his bed; he h~d
just got between the sheets when one of the servants
who had been concerned in stealing the ring came
into the room, under pretence of clearing the table
but in reality to observe what the conjuror was do~
ing, for he and his associates were in great appre.
tensions lest their theft should be discovered. Robin
hearing somebody in the room drew back the cur-
tain, an(l seeing what the servant was about, '\Vell,
said he, (with a hiccup,) 'thank God, there is ~ne
of them, however;' meaning one of the three repasts.
A guilty conscience needs no accuser. The footman
imagining that the conjuror had discovered the au-
thor of the theft by the great power of his art, and
that his discourse was addressed to him, ran down
to his companions in a panic, and related what he
had heard. Fear made him exaggerate every cir~
cumstance. He assured them the conjuror was well
informed of the whole affair, and that they had noth-
ing now to do but to consult their own safety by a
precipitate retreat.
The other two were greatly alarmed at this re-
cital. and were at a loss for some time what to re-
solve upon, till one of them proposed going into the
conjuror's room the next rught, that they might be
thoroughly satisfied their apprehensions were well
founded, since fear might have ~ d so strongly
~mpon his companion as to occasion misinterpret-
ng the conjuror's meaning. Having obtained their
assent, he went the next night into Robin's apart
mnent; who having gorge d himself like any alder-
VOL. ;~.                    283


MARVELLOUS REPOSITORY.                                  THE CONJUROR.

I I

man at a lord-mayor's feast had just risen from table.
The footman immediately began to take away, cast-
ing an eye now and then upon the conjuror, whose
eyes he as often found fixed upon him. 'Well,' said
Robin, 'thank God, there are two of them, however.'
The poor fellow was quite thunderstruck at the
sound; the dish dropped from his hand~ his knees
knocked together with the fright, and could hardly
support him to carry a confirmation of the dreadful
news to his companions.
The testimony of the first being now corroborated
by that of the second, no doubt could possibly remain,
unless to the third, who indeed was the most in-
credulous of -the three. He told them he did not
think it at all improbable that the relation of the
first might have a stronger imwesi~ion upon the
second, so as to make him imagine he heard the
same words spoken, though, at the same time, per-
haps, the conjuror had never broke silence~ and what
the more firmly confirmed him in this opinion was,
that he had told my lady that he should not be able
to give her any tidings of her ring until the expira-
tion of the three days. After many debates and
learned arguments pro and con, it was at length
agreed that the third should go into the conjuror's
chamber the succeeding night; and in case he should
be convinced that their fears were but too justly
founded, a council should be immediately held how
to act in the ease.
'The next day passed on like the two preceding
ones with this difference only, that Robin resolved to
make the most of his last meal, and laid about him
with redoubled vigour, that he might be better able
to sustain the bastinado which he foresaw, without
the assistance of art-magic, would be the reward of
his fraud. 'When bed-time approached, the. third
footman made his appearance, and, with many bows
and scrapes, was preparing to disserve the table,
when Robin broke out in his wanted ejaculation.
Well, thank God,' said he, 'I have got them all
234

I

Lhree. I am now content and have nothing rriore to
desire. Friend,' continued he, addressing himself
to the footman, 'tell your mistress I shall do myself
the honour of waiting on her in the morning.' The
lacqucy replied not, but went away with a heavy
heart to inform his companions of what he had heard,
who made no doubt that the con juror inten(led to
inform the lady of the theft. They spent the re-
maining part of the night in deliberating what was
best to be done, and resolved at length to throw
themselves upon the conjuror's mercy, who they
thought seemed to be a good-natured man, notwith-
standing his formidable cap and whiskers.
The next morning, as soon as Robin arose, they
threw themselves at his feet, deposited the ring in
his hands, and confessed their guilt, supplicating
him in the most moving terms to have pity on them,
and 'conceal the affair from their lady, as a halter
would be the undoubted consequence of such a dis-
covery. 'This was no disagreeable adventure for
Robin, whobefore this lucky accident, would wil-
lingly have compounded for two hundred lashes.
The dreadful ideas of whips and tortures which had
occupied his mind since he awoke l)egan to give
place to more agreeable expectations of honour and
rewards. Having moulded his face into as serious a
form as possible; he told them they had acted very
prudent iiy in making a voluntary confession of their
crime, although he had before discovered it by the
all-powerful influence of the planets, and promised
them, in consideration of their ingenuous behaviour,
to keep their transgressions a secret from their
mistress.
Having given the servants their hint, Robin went
privately into the yard where the poultry was kept,
~nd compelled one of the turkey-cocks to swallow
the ring. He then waited on Lady Simpleton, and...
with the greatest confidence said to her, 'Madam2
we have at length, with much toil and study, gained
the wished-for intelligence; your ring is safe.'--' 0!
285

'1'
"y' 'i'"'
I

THE CONJUROR.


A
f ~
I
A'
ii i

'4'
:1
I
I
I

THE CONJUROR.

I'~ARVELLOUS REPOSITORY
~Aess me,' cried Lady Simpleton, 'I ant very glad of
it. But where is it? Sir Tony would have been
4'ery much vexed had [lost it.'-' You dropped your
ring, madam;' continued Robin, 'in the yard in pull..
ing ofi your glove, and it was presently after picked
up by one of the turkies. Let them all pass in 're~
view before me, and I'll engage to arrest the felon.'
Lady Simpleton gave immediate orders for the
turkies to make their appearance; when Robin,
seizing on the turkey, which was a very remarkable
one, ordered hi~ to be killed aid opened in his
presence, and my lady had the pleasing satisfaction
of taking the ring from his belly.
She now looked upon our conjuror as a very ex~
I raordinary personage, and insisted on his tarrying
till next dat, when her husband was expected from
London. Robin, who had no objection to a renewal
of his carousing cheer, accepted the invitation, and
had the honour of dining and supping with her lady..
ship, enjoying a fourth day's regale, different from
I)iS expectations. rrhe next day Sir Tony arrived.
My I~dy flew to him in raptures to inform him
what a wonderof a man he had beneath his roof,
and assured him, that without th~ conjuror's assist..
ance the ring, on which she had set so great a value,
would inevitably havebeen lost. Sir Tony, although
he was no Solomon, could not rightly digest this
story. He swore that the conjuror was a cheat and
an impostor, and threatened to have him instantly
kicked out of doors.' My lady however prevailed
upon her husband to put the other's skill to the test
hefore he executed his threats.
At that instant a tame robin that used to frequent
the house for the sake of a few crumbs of bread,
which he would pick familiarly from the hand, flew
from the garden into the hall and perched upon Sir
Tony's shoulder, who immediately seizing the little
warbler, and confining him in a silken handkerchief,
ordered Robin to be called, who very cheerfully
wade his appearance in expectation of the promised
2~6

reward. ~' Hark'e, friend,' says Sir Tony, 'I am in~
formed you profes6 great skill in necromancy. But
as I have ever been an infidel in the point of magic
I insist that you convince me by an experiment.
Tell me what is inclosed in this handkerchief. I
wUl then renounce my credulity, and you shall meet
with a reward worthy so great a cabalist. But if, on
the contrary, you are incapable of giving me the
satisfaction I demand, be assured your insolence shall
not escape with impunity.'
Poor Robin, conscious of his incapacity to solve
the problem Sir Tony had proposed, cursed his ill
stars that made him wait the arrival of the baronet;
and giving himself ~over for lost, 'Alas! poor Robin,'
exclaimed he, 'are you then caught at .la~t?' Sir
Tony, astonished at the wonderful penetration and
sao'acity of our conjuror, immediately released the
ro~ in from his confinement, and joined heartily with
my lady in her commendation.
Robin, you may depend upon it, was not disagreea-
bly surprised when he perceived, by the sight of his
namesake, what a fortunate turn his affairs had
taken. Sir 'L'ony regaled him a month longer, load-
ing him with presents, and assured him at parting
that he should always meet with a kind reception at
Simpleton-hall; and Robin, whose rapture was no~
in its zenith, disdaining any longer to turn the sod,
took a ~rand house not far distant from his l)atron's,
where ~e still flourishes as t conjuror of renown.
2~$7

'I


'f:i&amp; 4
1~i    ~

MARVELLOUS REPOSITORY.
*1
EXTRACTS FROM A CYNIC'S VOCABULARY.
Aim-A random shot.
Author-One who commits great Larceny.
Bachelor-The only male biped without horns.
Botanist-An ass nibi~ing thistles.
Candour-Backbiting.
Charity-An easy method of plating copper.
Disdain-Self-conceit.
Emulation-A nickname for envy.
Faith--A shopkeeper's credit-(ctymology doubt
ful.)
Fame--The music produced by a poker alAd frying.
pan.
Favour--A superior's notice, obtained by cringing.
Fortitude-Enduring the toil of eating and drink.
ing without complaint.
Gentleman-An animal perfectly useless.
Grammarian-A nian tied to a stake.
Honour-A mixture of fish, flesh, fowl and wine,
tradesmen's bills, dotted bones, gunpowder and
lead, crim. con, and seduction.
Hope-Moonshine.
Innocence-A word not definable, as its properties
have been obsolete since the fall of Adam.
Justice-A pagan divinity-not acknowledged by
the Christian world.
King-A paroquet in a gilt cage.
Learning-Old-fashioned furniture.
Modesty-Polished brass.
Nobody-A person of consequence
Orator-An empty sugar-cask.
Philosophy -The bottling of star-light.
Poetry-The art of gilding gingerbread.
Pride-The lowest state of beggary.
Quotation-Petty Larceny.
Reason-A diffusive word, signifying every species
of vice.
238

HENRY ViII. AND TIlE ABBOT OF READING.
Science-Prize .fi~hti4.
Soldier-A slave in livery.
Temperance-A want of money to procure, or a con
stitutional inability to enjoy the good things of the
earth.
Tenderness-T-Tears produced by an onion.
Upstart-A fellow who raises himself by la!ldable
industry and well-applied talent.
Valour-Swearing ~nd bullying with a good grace.
Virtue-A word coined by the Ancient Romans,
and importing (according to its most refined sense)
assassination and suicide.
Woman-An incurable disorder; incident to man.
Yeoman-~-The shadow of a former substance-(al-
most obsolete.)
Zealot-A madman without a keeper.

4

HENRY VIII. AND THE ABBOT OF READING.
HENRY the Eighth having been hunting in Wind
sor Forest, went down about dinner time to the
Abbey of Reading, where, disguising himself as
one of the king's guard, he was invited to the Ab-
bot's table. Here, his tooth being whetted by the
keen air of the forest, he fed so lustily on a sirloin
of beef, that his vigorous appetite was noticed by the
master of the ceremonies. " Well fare thy heart,"
quoth the Abbot, "I would give a hundred pounds
if I could feed so heartily on beef as thou dost. Alas!
my weak and squeazie stomach will hardly digest
the wing of a rabbit or chicken." The monarch
having satisfied his palate, thanked the abbot for
his good cheer, and departed undiscovered.-Sorne
weeks afterwards, the abbot was arrested, conveyed
to London, sent to the Tower, and allowed no food
for several days, but bread and water. This treat-
ment, together with his fears for the consequence of
239

",

~-e@e


i.

M~LRVELLOUS REPOSITORY.

I,

THE
GOLDEN TOOTH.
A NORTH END LEGEND.

p~{' ~;
I ~W~'" 'I
'I ~5'
1'
A
'I
I
11

the king's displeasure, soon removed the effects of
repletion; and at last, when a surloin was one day'
placed before him; he ate as freely as a famished
ploughman. When he 'had finished his meal, the
king, who had been a hidden spectator, burst from
his concealment.-.-." My Lord," said the laughing
monarch, "presently deposit your hundred l)ieces of
gold, or else no going hence all the days of your
life. I have been the physician to cure your squcazie
stomach; and now, as I deserve, demand my fee for
so doino~" The abbot knowing that argument was
of' no avail with the stern Henry, paid the money,
and returned home- re
easily.          ,  joining that he had escaped so
PARLIAMENTARY ERROR.
A BILL was lately introduced into Parliament, by
which it was directed that a penalty of 501. was to be
levied for the commission of a particular offence,
which penalty it w~s provided should be equally di-
vided between the informer and churchwarden of
the parish in which the offence might be committed.
While the bill was in progress, the penalty of 501.
was changed to "transportation for seven years ;~J
but the other part of the bill remaining unaltered,
the bill now enacts, "that the said penalty of trans-
port ation for seven years~ shall be equally divided be-.
tueen the churchwarden and the informer."
240

THE dust has fallen three inches deep in the garret
of the Green Dragon, since a stout, bull-necked feb.
low with a hooked nose, knocked at the door of the
widow Queasy in Fish Lane, and'demanded admit-.
tance. It was a stormy night, and the monotonous
pattering df the rain against the windows had lulled
the good woman into a doze. Perhaps she was pre-
disposed to such a state by her constant labour dur-
ing the day in knitting stockings, which employ-.
ment, together with taking snuff, monopolized her
faculties. Be this as it may, the noise at the door
soon scattered her "thick coming fancies," and with
some trepidation she hobbled' to learn its cause.
Scarcely had she uplifted the latch, when a sudden
gust of wind beat open the door and extinguished
her' candle.-" Are you the wife of Jonathan Quea-
sy, who is now absent at sea?" asked a rough voice.
"I am that disconsolate woman." "Then, with
your permission, I will step in. It is an ugly night,
and I am wet and cold." After a moment's silence,
lie added, "I can give you some information respect-
ing your husband." With that, he pushed back the
door, and groped after the widow into the recesses
of her habitation.
VOL. ii.  w        B16      241


MARVELLOUS REPOSITORY.

till I
2 ~ j j
''p '~
I
'1' 1
I"
A        ~

GOLDEN TOOTH.

A
I

A dim fire stewed moodily on the hearth. Its look
was forbidding; but an inherent fear of scandal im~
parts that expression to every thing connected with
a widow, especially one whose husband is off at sea;
besides, the elements without, were yet more shrew-
ishly inclined. Doubtless this reflection was de-.
cisive.
With all possible expedition, Dame Queasy seized
the tongs and exerted her strength in puffing a
sullen coal; but the wick had become wet, and seem-
ed unwilling to burn. Her features, as they occa-
sionally flashed on the view of the stranger, betray-
ed the inroads of time and snuff. She had certainJy
passed her meridian; and the cap which reposed so
demurely on her venerable crown, bespoke the re-
spectability of her character. Age, whether in
widows or spinsters, is extremely imposing; and her
guest, though none of the most refined of God's crea-
tures, felt its influence. He hastened to offer his
services, which were accepted, and the candle once
more emitted a cheerful flame.
As the light shone over the countenance of the
stranger, the widow anxiously perused its lineaments;
but she gave no sign of beholding aught she had
seen before. A pair of re~il, frizzled whiskers, which
extended into the mouth of their owner; an enor-
mous queue reaching nearly to his heels, and a giant
frame presented no familiar object. In atone of dis-
appointment, she beseeched the "gemman" to take
a seat by the fire, and communicate the intelligence
he promised.
"With all my heart," said the stranger, taking a
fresh quid of tobacco, and pulling up in rather an
awkward manner, his canvass browsers. "You
must know, marm, that about seven years ago I fell
in with your husband, old Jot Queasy, at St. Jago,
one of the Cape-de-Verds, where we put in to get
provisions. Queasy had been taken sick shortly
after his arrival there, and his vessel left without
him."
242

"Bless me! how you talk! I declaim e you ha ire set
me all of a flatter. Now we heard as how his vessel
was taken by that horrid Captain Kidd, and all
hands barbarously murdered and sunk in the salt
sea; I'm sure~ I have almost cried my eyes out for
him. Poor Queasy! I shall never forget how I felt
when I heard the shocking news. 'Deacon Tim.
mins,' said I, wiping my eyes with my apron-(l'm
sure I'd never cry so much for another husband)-.-.
'if he had been regularly lost at sea, it would have
been a comfort.' But bless me, you say he didn't
sail."
"Exactly so-(if, marm, you may happen to have
a drop of gin, or any sich sort o' thing in the house, I
would get on better with my story: my memory is
kind o' froze up like.")
Mrs. Queasey went to the cupboard, and produced
a pot-bellied bottle of Hollands. The stranger did
not withdraw it from his lips until he had nearly
emptied its contents. Then taking a short, snubby
pipe from his pocket, he deliberately filled it with
tobacco, heaped on some burning cinders, and began
to puff in silence. Some agitating recollection had
taken possession of his mind, to judge from the huge
volumes of smoke he incessantly belched from the
recesses of his whiskers. Mrs. Queasy had to address
him repeatedly, before lie could be recalled to a con-
tinuation of his narrative. " Eh !-( puff)-aha!
Jot Queasy. Very true Where did I leave off?
Well, (puff)-fmding the vessel gone on his recove-.
ry from the fever, he lingered about the shore
awhile, to get a voyage home; and one day fell in
with some of my-with some of Kidd's crew, who
persuaded him to join them and become a gallant
rover."
Never was a widow~woman whose husband was
off at sea, more shocked than poor Mrs. Queasy, at
this information. She wept; wrung tier hands; took'
snuff, and wept again, while the stranger continued
muttering and smoking to himself. "Jot Queasy,-
243

p


MARVELLOUS REPOSITORY
as hearty a cock as ever sailed--no whiner-nor
sniveller-wide awake as a black-fish-poor fellow
-hard time at last." The unfortunate widow Quea-
sy now blubbered a request to know the particulars
of the catastrophe; at the same time gracefully
covering her features with a snuffy handkerchief.
The stranger took a fresh tug at the gin bottle,
filled up his pipe anew, and giving his chair a hitch
nearer the fire, proceeded in something like the fol-
lowing.
"We had been cruising off NewfoundlThd a cou.~
siderable time without falling in with any vessels;
but at last, luck seemed to have changed. It was on
a cold, winter's morning before the break of da~r,
that we espied through the dim atmosphere, a tall
vessel sleeping, as it were, on the heaving breast of
the ocean. Queasy was on the watch. lie hurried
below to communicate the pleasing intelligence. I
was on deck in a moment. Every thing promised
an easy and valuable prize. Soon all hands were
roused, and it was determined a select party should
n-ian the boats and attempt to take her by surl)rise.
Poor Jot was one. The boats stole silently on with
muffled oars, while we loaded up our guns. Before
they reached the vessel, they were seen and an alarm
was given. We heard them clamber up her sides;
a terrible conflict followed; when it ceased, no signal
of victory was given. XVe discharged our guns.
Our broadside was feebly returned; and we continu-
ed to pour shot into her for more than an hour. The
rising sun discovered her in a sinking condition.
We would fain have approached, to learn the fate of
our comrades; but a brisk gale springing up, we were
obliged to separate, aiA that was the last I ever saw
of Queasy. I never felt worse since my name was
Robert Kidd."
It is impossible to conjecture what exhibitions of
grief and despair Dame Queasy might have thought
it proper to make, had this woful intelligence been
imparted by Deacon Timmins. As it was, her hor-
244

I
FIA
4
I

j

GOLDEN TOOTH.

ror at being in the presence of Kidd, mast ere(l every
other feeling. She essayed to scre am, but l)er PoIV-
ers of speech were paralysed; she strove to rush
from the room, but her limbs refused their office.
The bloody Kidd had long bcen the bug-bear of
New-England; and to be alone with him at that
(lismal hour was enough to appal a stouter heart than
Dame Queasy's; or indeed of any other widow-wo-
man whose husband was off at sea.
~t i7i~ long before the widow regained the use of
Iwr faculties, and when that time arrived, her fears
were insensibly allayed by the apparent pacific dis-
position of her guest. Resting his feet upon the
fire-dogs, he steadily puffed his tobacco, as if lost in
thought. Besides, thought she, if folks should come
in and find company in the house, how they would
talk! Thus with snutf and reflection she was ena-
bled to make a virtue of necessity, and by resuming
her stocking, soon knit her apprehensions to repose.
It is said that during this memorable evening, Kidd
recounted the events of his life. How by scouring
the seas for in any years, he had acquired an enor-
mous quantity of treasure: how he had buried it in
the night on Deer Island, where the place is called
Money Hill to this day: how he transferred his right
over it to the old Scratch, for his left eye tooth,
which is well known to have the power of turning
all metals by its touch into gold: how he proceeded
up to Boston, where his vessel was immediately
seized, and he had a narrow escape: how in lurking
about the town, it occurred to him to have heard
Queasy mention his wife's living in Fish lane~ how
he had great difficulty in finding the house, and
finally that he would give her untold gold if she
would secrete him in her garret, until he could make
his escal)e.
How disconcerted was Mrs. Queasy at such a pro-
p osal! How embarrassing to a widow-woman, whose
husband was off at sea! For five minutes she could
do nothing but take enormous l)inches of snuff. True
Voz~. mm.  XV2

- A
'A' ;4
'A, A

P
'A-I


I'

MARVELLOUS RErOSITORY.

she was~nearly old enough to be Kidd's mother; but
then folks would talk. How distressing! She had
a spare bed up in the attic-and then if he should
be hung through h~r cruelty, she might be tea~.ed
with his ghost--and'then too the gold-and then the
protection of having a man in the house--but her
compliance costher a world of maccaboy.
There was one thing Mrs. Queasy particularly
wished to know. Capt. Kidd had bargained with
the old Scratch. What sort of looking creature was
he?
"XVhy he appeared a thin elderly man, in a 1)01)
wig, velvet breeches and glasses. His sallow skin
was drawn as tight over his jaws as the 1)archinent of
a drum. He had a keen look-appeared remarka-
fly sanctified, and moreover had a trick of continu-
ally turning on his heel, and blowing his nose."
"Did he' have a long tail and a cloven foot?"
"Why as to the tail, I can't tell-for the cunning
kna~Te wouldn't let me get round him; am1 his cloven
'feet, if he had any, were hid in a pai.r of shQes with
silver buckles. Egad, much as I coulkl do to look
after the bargain, without minding such kind of non-
sense !" Here Kidd bern to puff inveterately, and
the widow was silent.
But the old Scratch in parting with his golden
tooth, had no idea of bidding it a permanent adieu.
~His malignant soul could not bear the idea of a mor-
'~tal's enjoying so much wealth; and being sanguine
of speedily taking possession of the pirate, he had re~,
luctantly acceded to his terms and given up the
tooth. Kidd was shortly after taken in Boston streets
in the disguise of a gentleman and executed. But
what was the rage and mortification of the old
Scratch, in hunting for the tooth to find it missing!
He departed in a huff, leaving the carcase to the
'medical vultures who were already on the approach,
having snuffed the prey from afar.
Now it happened that Kidd, in smoking at the
widow Queasy's, was exceedingly annoyed by the
246

GOLDlEN TOOTH.

THE GOLDEN TOOTH.-PART II.

ONE mild, sunny afternoon in the beginning of au-
(umn, Tobias Grubb, the famous self-taught grave-
digger, threw off his jerkin, and began to turn up
the sods in the west corner of Copps Hill burying-
place. r1~here was nothing in the outward appear-
247

sensibibtyof the Golden Tooth. Threepuffs heated
*     it heyori(I endurance; and knowing the art, he took
it from the socket, lest it should roast all the marrow
in his jaw. In the hurry of his departure, it was left
.1    behind, and on returning to recover it, he met his
doom.
*       Long after Kidd's execution, Dame Queasy in ex~
arnining some old garments found the tooth, but did
not recognize it. On looking in the glass the next
morning, she was greatly bewildered at perceiving a
large tooth in her upper jaw. She could not tell for
her soul how it came there. All day long she toiled
arid tugged to get it out. She was eiceedingly~di~-
(ressed. How would folks talk!
And her female friends did talk of this most won-
derful occurrence. Nothing was mentioned through-
out the town but the new tooth cut by the widow
Queasy. Some, mysteriously shook their heads;
others pronounced her a witch, and said she ought to
he hung; others gnawed the head of their cane, and
stroked their venerable whiskers, but said nothing.
In the heat of dispute, the poor woman died, having
been fairly worried to death, and was secretly buried
with a horse-shoe nailed to her coffin.
The story came to light many years after, and the
tooth was sought for in vain. A pair of gold and-
irons was found about the same time in a garret, at
the North End, which I believe are still extant,
having been quite lately in the possession of a
Madam S-n. But alas, where is the Tooth!

I,]

9


MARVELLOL'S REPOSITQRY
ance of' this man that betokened extraordinary ge
fills: he was a squat, dumpling-head~d creature
with a pair of legs much too short for his profession,
so that to see him scratching away in a grave, one
might mistake him for an overgrown toad in his hole.
Nevertheless~, among all the grave-diggers that have
flourished at the North End, there never was such
an operator with the spade. He would burrow into
the ground like, a rabbit; skulls, stones and stumps
flew about him incessantly; and then his ease in
shoveling himself out of a hole of thrice his depth
was marvellous. The annals of grave digging fur~
nish no achievements that will vie with those of
Tobias.
At the period we resume our tale, the history of
the Golden Tooth was apparently buried in oblivion.
Its wonderful virtue of transmuting metals into gold
was, no longer admired, and its possession had ceased
to gild the visions of the miser. Time had crept
on. The generation that witnessed its powers had
passed away, and their descendants regarded the
whole as an idle dream, and dismissed it from their
recollection.
Such was the state of affairs, when Grubb, after
moistening his hands and throat, began to drive his
mattock into the sconce of mother earth. Slowly
and with the air of one who delighted in his employ-
ment, did he toss out the fragrant mould and watch
the progress of his labour. As he approached the
usual depth, his mattqck struck heavily on a solid
substance which jarred his arms to the shoulder,
and electrified his whole frame. He had dislodged
a heavy skull: it seemed to grin a ghastly smile at
his discomfiture. Clutching it rudely, he was about
to hurl it at a neighboring tombstone, when his eye
was attracted by a yellow tooth in the upper jaw.
It pleased his fancy. "1 will fasten it to my bunch
of tomb-keys," thought he; but the act was never
performed. Infatuated Tobi as! didst thou but guess
its value!
248

GOLDEN TOOTH.

I

j

3
Y

I
For several weeks the Golden Tooth remained in
the grave-digger's pocket with a bit of greasy chalk.
No bachelor's linen should go unwashed more than
a quarter, and Tobias Grubb was above doing such
things for himself. It so happened his time for visit-
ing the washerwoman arrived. I say "it so hap..
pened," for with some bachelors that period never
happens at all. One night in the midst of the Equi-
noctial storm, he started with his bundle for the house
of Mrs. Scrubs. inauspicious moment! Mrs.
Scrubs was vexed, and Tobias' nos~ was harcl!v
over the threshold before he made the discovery.
His pumpkin head was not without the seeds of dis-
cretion, and it turned to a more sallow hue at the
s')ectacle
Never, I venture me to say, did female softness
have so ill a representative. Never before was Mrs.
Scrubbs in such a passion. And she had reason.
For six mortal days the rain had continued to pour
down upon the North End, until her tubs run over
and over, and the garret and cellar were all of a
flow. During the whole of this miserable time, her
(Iwelling was beset with bachelors in quest of their
linen, and it now approached the end of the week,
and not the least sign of a fair day was visible. Mrs.
Scrubs placed her arms akimbo, and scolded from
sunrise till the hour of rest. Unhappy washerwo-
man! mine eyes drip like an unwrung stocking at
the very thought of thy suffering.
A rainy week is a sore trial of female gentleness.
Many have been frightened from matrimony by the
ferocity of damsels on wet washing-days. But if a
high-bred lady with a few unwashed ruffs and ruf-
fles be allowed to fret at the weather, what fearful
explosions of passion, what terrific exhibition-ST of im-
patience are to be expected from a poor washerwo-
man, who is tease(l wits the soiled frippery of all the
old bachelors of the town!
It is unpleasant to enlarge upon the foibles of the
sex. I shall not shock my unmarried readers with
249


MARVELLOUS REPOSITORY.                                  GOLDEN TOOTH.

r ~
''7
I

s

a particular description of this interview. Bacne.~
lors and washerwomen seldom agree. Suffice it then.
to say, that Tobias did not stand listening to Mrs.
Scrubs' eloquence a moment longer than propriety
demanded. I will not positively aver the Golden
Tooth was in the waistcoat he left with this accom-
plished laun~iress; Vsimply assert he never beheld it
more. But it is certain, a remarkable yellow grind
er was soon after discovered in the mouth of Mrs.
Scrubbs, which had thus far escaped the scrutiny
of her admirers. Such things are, now-a-days,
extremely common. Teeth are more apt to multi.
ply in, than abscond from, the mouths of modern
belles!
Close by the side of Mrs. Scrubs' back window,
was a small tenement, occupied by one Nebo Vamp,
a snaggle-toothed colbler. It vas a low, beetle-
browed building, with a great chimney upon one end
that arose so high into the air, as to threaten the
whole neighbourhood with destruction. In this shop,
Master Vamp kept up an eternal hammering of hole-
leat her. Not an hour of the day and night, but w at
he was employed in beating out the brains of ohk
shoes. Kipper-clapper, , kipper-clapper, was the
everlasting song-so that poor Mrs. Scrubs was
frequently puzzled to hear herself scold. I doubt
whether there is any thing more provoking to a
querulous matron, than being unable to hear her
own complaints,              snoring      his
One night, Master Vamp lay         upon
bench with his capstone for a pillow, and a parcel of
old shoes for a cover-lit. Something after midnight,
his slumbers were disturbed by a rustling noise in
the farther corner of the shop. lie raised himself
upon one elbow, and. bent his little rat eyes in the
direction of the noise. A flood of moonlight beat
through a large bull's eye in the roof and fell on the
form of an overgrown chimney sweeper, with one
hand pressed against his wapper-jaw, as if expiring
with the tooth-ach, while he crouched down and
250

appeared to rummage after something in a pile of
rubbish.
"What o' the devil are you after?" bawled Nebo.
C' A tooth," mumbled the stranger, without raising
his head. " I have lost a tooth."
"Tooth! you scoundrel-I'll make you lose a
pair of them, if you don't sweep yourself out of my
shop."
"PaiVjon me," rejoined the other, raising and dis-
playing a cheek swollen out like a bladder, "I must
find the tooth I have lost;" and he began to hoan and
moan most piteously.
"I suppose" growled Nebo, "you are afraid to
leave it, lest some dog should eat it up, and then
you would have a dog's tooth?"
"Not so," said the stranger. "A villain plunder-
ed my jaws of their dearest treasure."
"Egad," grinned Nebo,"' if you suffer yourself to
be cheated out of your eye-teeth, you aren't a wise
one, 1 guess."
"Alas! 1 was beguiled~ The wealth of the Indies
is in this tooth. 0 that I had it once more!" and
he began to search again about the floor.
The long forgotteti legend of the Golden Tooth
now shot through the recollection of Nebo. "Aha,
I have heard something of this. Pray didn't you
trade with Kidd; the bloody p irate ?"
The stranger answered only by a groan.
"rio, ho, ho," cried Nebo, bursting into a horse-
laugh. "That, was a cunning knave to cheat the
devil."
His auditor coughed peevishly, and turned away.
Sir," said Nebo, sharply, "'if you want any thing
in my way, say it at once :-if you are after teeth-be
off ' I've none to spare." ~
The stranger continued his search, notwithstand..
ing the injunction of the shoe-mender. At length,
as if weary of the pursuit, he arose.
"I have lost a tooth I value above the whole world;
I must regain it. The creeping of my marrow as-
2~1

I
'I
i
A
*1
i

"I
7'

r
I     I
~ I


MARVELLOUS REPOSITORY.

ii4~
'A
.1

sures me it cannot bejar off: yet I have crept about
the neighbourhood until I can hardly straighten my
back. I ~nust instantly depart to a distant clime,
to attend the roasting of a score of inconsolable
widows. To thee I commit the farther prosecution
of the search. Ri'store me the tooth, and all Kidd's
treasure is thine."
Nebo's avarice was strongly excited. "Where,"
cried he, eagerly, "may I hope to find it?"
"Most likely amongst dust and rubbish:-but
now I bethink me, perhaps it may have strayed
into the mouth of some unconscious individual; for,
being placed within the sphere of attraction, it glides
softly into the jaw, like a needle to the magnet. But
yetl can hardly believe
"Can it be easily extracted ?"
"My fingers alone, have power to draw it forci-
bly; yet, being turned in the socket nine times
against the course of the sun, it will drop into the
hand. But I must be hence, and years will elapse
before I can return. When thou hast the tooth,
cast it into the fire;. I shall instantly receive it; and
the glowing coals will change immediately to lumps
of gold. 'I'is thy reward-Farewell." So saying,
he crawled to the ruinous hearth, and gradually in-
sinuated his person up the chimney, like a blizzard.
Nebo Vamp continued to stare at the place for at
least ten minutes; then slowly sinking on his bench,
he bethought him of the past adventure. "Throw
it into the fire! If I had the tooth, you wouldn't
catch me so, old fellow." A sudden recollection
made him spring to the floor an4dance in ecstacy.
"I have it! 'Tis mine! I'll marry her to-morrow!
Let her scold till her tongue wears out, if she will.
o for the light of morning!"
How he sped in his wooing, I forbear to relate. I
might give a pleasing description of the washerwo-
man's courtship; but let it pass. Mrs. Vamp soon
scolded herself to death; but as her husband re-
tained the tooth, he was not inconsolable. Vamp's
252

THE GOLDEN TOOTH.-PART III.

4
a
'I
I
I

I

Up Fish street-down St. Magnus' corner-
Kill and knock down.        Henry VI.
THERE appeared at the North End of Boston, in
the ~ar 1754, a most singular object, who was look-
ed upon by the inhabitants with perplexity and
amazement. His countenance was thin; sallow, and
shrunken, and fasting or disease had wasted his form
to an almost spectral gauntness. His stature, but
In digging a cellar near Hancock's wharf, about 25 years
ago, the laborers discovered an extensive vault, arched with
brick, several feet below the earth's surface. It was supposed
to have been built in olden time for the concealment of' smuggled
goods; but I imagine it was no other than Vamp's money. chest
VOL. 11.     X                     253

~1

A

~ k

GOLDEN TOOTH.
first step was to build a subterraneous vault* for the
reception of his treasure. He engaged in naviga
tfon, lightly at first; gradually extended his business,
and prospered amazing4y. Years rolled on, like
waves chasing each other on the surface of the
ocean, and wealth continued to flow into his coffers.
He covered the land at the North End so thickly
with buildings, that space was hardly left for the
cows to move through the streets; he pushed wharve
so far into the sea that the harbour was rapidly dis-
appearing before him; the canvass of his shipping
whitened every ocean, and his warehouses thronged
with the productions of every clime. But his mean
and grasping disposition changed not with his for-
tunes. Riches could not refine his nature, nor pros-
perity soften his heart; and though his wealth and.
enterprise raised the North End to the dignity of a
metropolis, he never was respected by the people,
who looked mysteriously at his possessions ana pre~
diced him an unhappy end.


t
A

MARVELLOUS REPOSITOIVV
for a remarkable curve in his back-bone, would have
towered beyond the common height, for his legs and
neck were drawn out to the length of a crane's; and
be stooped so much in his gait, that his long bony
fingers, resembling the flippers of a skeleton, nearly
dangled on the ground, so as to make him appear at
a distai~ce to travel on all fours. But although ex-
posure to the sun had withered his face into the ex-
pression of a dried peach, there was a piercing keen-
ness in the glance of his beady eye and an alacrity
in his movements altogether unexpected from the
structure of his frame.
This strange being seemed possessed with an eter-
nal hankering after the teeth of th~ inhabitants. As
he glided through the~streets with his head neari
three feet in advance of his body, his, eyes wer
always fixed on the masticators of passing travellers~
The young and the thoughtless, who tripped smilitig-
ly along, he would only notice by a hasty examina-
tion; it was the aged and th~ shy-4he demure spin-
ster and the cautious old man, to whom his especial
attention was devoted. Whenever he met with per-
sons of this description, he never left them without
obtaining an inspection of their jaws; atid if he dis-
covered ~. yellow tooth, or one of a bilious complex-
ion, his hand was most unceremoniously raised to
pluck it. No matter to what head it belonged,-a
dignified matron's or a "venerated aunt's," a solemn
deacon's or a superannuated mariner's; no matter
with what intense affection it was cherished by its
dating proprietor; no matter for the agony with
which it was yielded up, or how desperately it -was
defended&amp; he seemed to consider every yellow tooth
indisputably his own. Resistance or expostulation
only excited his eagerness; the angry astonishment
with which his demand was universally heard did
not affect him in the least; he was invincible to eve-
ry consideration of safety or compassion. It' he~
could but fasten his strong fingers on the tooth, iie
needed no other instrument; it was instantly in his

N

-A

~ I

GOLDEN TOOTH.
possessioti. All attempts to elude his vi~ilance, ow
combat his resolution, were in vain, lie clung to
an isolated yellow tooth like a sailor to a wreck; the
whole world could not make him relax his grasp;
he insisted, he begged, he implored, until exhausted
with importunity the owne bid it a reluctant fare-
well, or it was at last wre ehed forcibly from his
I      jaws.
The Iirst time this heartless miscreant was seen,
happened to be on a Friday afternoon, just at dusK.
Tobias Grirhb, an ancient grave digger, h adk knocked
the clay from his spade, and was leaving Copps Hill,
when a man crept up from behind, and without
word or warning~ made a snapat one of his teeth.
'robias was highly incensed, and with a desperate
I      effort threw the ruffian from him, whose stooping
position accelerated his pace down to the bottom of
the hill, whither he went like a quail running away
from its shell~. That very night, as Tobias was re-
turning from the, Green Dragon, he felt a smart
twitch at the same tooth. He gazed sharply around,
but it was very dark, and he could discover nothing.
A few moments afterwards, there was another sensible
nibble; again he stopped and listened, but all was
still. Somewhat alarmed, he closed his lips firmly
together, and quickened his pace; but ere he had
proceeded far, another sudden wrench almost dislo.-
cated his jaw. He quickly raised his hand to the
place, even as an an er lifteth his un e after a sharp
bite; but the bait was gone-the tooth had vanished
forever!
Not many days after this shameful outrage, the
mysterious stranger was established in a little dark
shop in Frizzel square, as an operator on teeth. His
windows were filled with placards, setting forth his
j      skill, and advising the public to call and have all
their teeth extracted before they grew painful, alleg-
ing that "an ounce of prevention was better than a
j     pound of cure."  He particularly exhorted the aged,
and those in- pGssession of sallow or defective teeth,
255


MARVELLOUS REPOSITORY.
to beware of the evils of procrastination, &amp;c. Thus
in this dim retreat did he lie crouched, wistfully
scanning the mouths of passers by, even as a black
spider watches from his lurking place the gambols
of idle flies. But want of business soon drove him
to desperation, and he sallied into the streets to com-
wit his lawless depredations.
He would generally be seen about ten o'clock in
the morning, toiling down Moon-street on his way
from Frizzle square to the fashionable promenade
in Ann-street. ~is progress was slow, for he often
paused and looked about him with a kind of nervous
agitation, and there was a wild and anxious roll of
his eye that was painfully expressive. Still he gra-
dually edged along, peeping under the bonnet of
every lady, and thrusting his eyes into the mouth of'
every gentleman. The inhabitants were astonished,
and gathered around to marvel and admire; but
while they stood gaping with wonder, the stranger
took advantage of their open mouths and devoted
their teeth to his own use with arnazin~ dexterity.
The crowd vanished in an instant-but flight afford-
ed only a temporary refuge: the stranger was con-
tinually on the watch, and a grinder that escaped
one day was sure to be eradicated the next. The
cormorant eagerness with which he pursued his pur-
pose was indescribable. It seemed as if his appetite
grew by what it fed on. Day after day, and week
after week, beheld him unsatisfied. He ha~inted the
streets like a spectre, attacking the boldest inhabi..
tants at noon-day, and robbing the watchmen's jaws
at night. The havoc he made among the teeth of
sea-faring men was terrible; for their habit of chew-
ing tobacco imparted a yellow tinge to their grind
ers, and the stranger intruded into their boarding-
houses, dogged them around dram-shops, and wor-
rie(l them so much, that at last no mariners would
venture into the port. Terror and consternation
prevailed. All business was at an end; and the peo.
pie strove, by fasting and humiliation, to obtain
256

j

$

I

4

'4
4 
:4
~: I

*1
I
4.
$444
1
~ I

GOLDEN TOOTJr.
relief from this direful visitation. But the busi.
ness of destru14ion still raged on, and tne teeth of the
inhabitants dj~opped away like leaves before the au-
tumnal blast. At length the work seemed finished-.
every mouth in the place had been ransacked and
pil1aged--and~ the tooth-fiend, after searching many
days in vain for another victim, suddenly disap-
I      feared.
It is impossible to describe the state of the citi..
zens after his departure. Fathers mourning for
their own teeth and those of their children; and
spinsters sorrowing that would not be comforted.
Mouths, which had erst abounded in teeth like a
shark's, were now tenantless; heads, that had once
opened and shut like a steel trap, now toothless and
forlorn-" quite chap-fallen !" But time heals every
wound, and habit tolerates every privation. Gra-
'1
dually the people became reconciled to their condi-
tion, and forgot their loss, save when the pearls of a
rising generation recalled it to their memories.
Yet there w ~vs one man in the town, who escaped
the general calamity; one, too, whose upper jaw
overreached its mate, like the bill of a parrot-one,
who sported a set of grinders that would have shamed
an hippopotamus. At the first alarm, he had flown
to his subterranean retreat, and kept concealed un-
til the tempest was hushed. It was Vamp, the mean,
the stony-hearted miser. His prodigious eye-teeth,
~f which he had always been so proud, and which
from his cold and graspin~ disposition were the
abomination of the people, still retained their situa-
tion. He had early recognized in the tooth-drawing~
spectre the identical chimney sweep who visited his
cobbler's shop, and his conscience whispered that
himself and the Golden Tooth were the cause of his
present visitation. Although greatly terrified, he de-
termined if possible to elude his search, and he suc-
ceeded. The unfortunate devil, though boiling with
rage and disappointment, was compelled by other
engagements to depart unsatisfied.
VoL. II.            1117     257


MARV~LLOU5 REPOSiTORY.
But the shack his presence ha~ occasioned was not
~asi1y forgotten, ~nd old Vamp trembled at the
thought of his narrow escape. The constant appre-
hension that The devil would ~ounce on him una~
wares, made him miserable. is enormous wealth
was no longer ~enjoyed, although he still continued
to grind the faces of the poor from the mere force of
habit. Yet cunning as a serpent, he ceased to &amp;i~-
hibit his teeth openly, when their rarity would at-'
tract attention: on the contrary he drew his shirt
collar up to the to~ of his ears, and buried his mouth,
nose and chin be~ind~ an enormous pudding. He
purchased a new wig and cocked hat, changed the
colour of his clothes, and made a radical alteration
in his personal appearance. But his heart remained
the same-and those who exulted in the fancied loss
of his teeth, found to their sorrow that his miserly
propensities still remained, and that he nipped as
close as ever.
It was three years after the occurrence of the
events above narrated, and on a bright winter even-
ing about nine o'clock; the inhabitants were crowd-
ed close into their chimnies, parching corn and warm-
ing themselves before they retired. So universal
was this custom, that a stranger, passing through
the streets about that hour, could distinguish the
snapping of the corn from house to house throughout
all the North End. Just as the bell of the Old North
Church had ceased to strike, there was heard a shrill
and fearful outcry in a distant street. Every tongue
stopped and every pulse fluttered. The sound was
heard again and nearer. It seemed like the ago-
nized shriek of some one in mortal peril. They
flew to tbe windows in breathless alarm; bolts and
shutters Were withdrawn in an instant.-The cold
moon glared upon the crusted snow, and disclosed
the hateful form of the tooth-fiend, driving past with
the speed of a whirlwind. His cheek was flushed
with rage, and his eye flashed fire as he drew after
him, by the hare tooth, the' reluctant, shrieking Vamp.
~5S

si1

I

'I
'1.

4

GOLDEN TOOTH.
The countenance of' the miser was f~ightfully dis..
torted. Terror and despair were in his glance, and
the blood streamed from his jaw, which resistance
and struggling had drawn out like the snout of a pig.
His piercing cries for succour thrilled every bosom;
but it was for a moment; the next he w~s gone;
they pushed after him through the, streets, but in
vain-he was never beheld more.
Soon after Vamp's disappearance, his property
went to wreck and ruin. His ships were cast away
at sea, or never returned; his wharves and buildings
rotted down untenanted; his land became covered
over with squatters; and every vestige of his enor-
mous wealth gradually disappeared. About this
tiThe, the North'End began to sink into decay. Its
business had received a fatal shock by the removal
of Vamp; and the alleged appearance of his ghost
regularly at midnight, contributed to render its cha-
racter unpopular. Meanwhile commerce edged up
further and further' towards the South. Wealth,
fashion and population soon followed, and the oldest
part of the town sank by degrees into comparative
obscurity: but even to this day, the native inhabit-
ants cling to their patrimonial estates with enthusi-
astic fondness, and continue to predict a speedy re-
turn of its original pre-eminence. In confirmation
of their opinion, they proudly refer to its former
greatness,-to its superior accommodations of har-
bour; and most confidently aver, that nothing is
wanting but the recovery of the GOLDEN TooTH to
restore the North End to its ancient splendour and
renown.
259


U

MARVELLOUS REPOSITORY.

TILE PARRICIDE PUNIShED.

I'
3.

.1
I
V
~i)

THE following very singular adventure is related
as a fact in a French work, entitled La Nouvelle Btb.
tiotheque de Societe; and is said to have happened
in one of the provinces of France. It is related in a
letter to a friend.
The adventure which I am going to relate to you,
my dear~friend, is of so strange and dreadful a na-
ture, that you are the only person to whom I must
ever disclose the secret.
The nuptials of Mademoiselle de Vildac were
celebrated yesterday; at which, as a neighbour, cus~
torn and good manners required my attendance.
You are acquainted with M. de Vildac: he has a
countenance which never pleased me; his eyes have
often a wild and suspicious glare, a something
which has always given me disagreeable sensations
for which I could in no way account. I could not
help observing yesterday, that, in ~the midst of joy
and revelry, he partook not of pleasure: far from be-
ing penetrated with the happinessof his new son and
daughter, the delight of others seemed to him a Sc-
cret torment.
The feast was held at his. ancient castle; and,
when the hour of rest arrived, I was conducted to a
chamber immediately under the Old Tower at the
north end. I" had just fallen into my first sleep,
when I was awakened and alarmed by a heavy kind
of noise over head. I listened, and heard very dis-
tinctly the footsteps of some one slowly descending,
and dragging chains that clanked upon the stairs,
the noise approached, and presently the chamber-
door was opened, the clanking of the chains re-
doubled, and he who bore them went towards the
chinrney. There were a few embers half extinguish-
ed; these he scrape(l together, and said in a sepul.
chral voice-" Alas! how long it is since I have seem
2(30

PAURWIDI~ PUNISHED.

a fire !',' I own, my friend, I was terrified: I seized
my sword, looked between my curtains, and saw by
the glimmer of the embers a withered old man half
naked, with a bald head and a white beard. He
put his trembling hands to the wqod, which began to
blaze, and soon afterwards turned towards the door
by which he entered, fixed his eyes with horror upoii
the floor, as if he beheld something most dreadful,
and exclaimed with agony, "My God! my God !"
My emotion caused my curtains to make a noise,
and he turned aifrighted. "Who is there ?" said he.
"Is there any one in that bed ?"-" Yes," I replied:
"an(l who are you?" Contending passions would
not for a while suffer him to speak; at last he an-
swered, "I am the most miserable of men. This,
perhaps, is more than I ought to say; but it is so
long, so many years, since I have seen or spoken to a
harnan being, that I cannot resist. Fear nothing~
come towards the fire listen to sorrows,
my         and for
a moment soften my sufferings!"'
My fear gave place to pity; I sat down by him.
My condescension and my feelings moved him; he
took my hand, bathed it with his tears, and said-~
"Generous man! let me desire you first to satisfy
my curiosity. Tell me why you lodge in this cham~
her, where no man has lodged before for so many
years; and what mean the rejoicing I have heard?
what extraordinary thing has happened to-day in
the castle ?"
When I had informed him of the marriage of Vii-
dac's daughter, he lifted up his hands to heaven-.
"Has Vildac a daughter? and is she married? Al..
mighty God grant she may be happy! grant she may
never know guilt!" He paused for a moment-
"Learn who I am," sa:id he. "You see, you speak'
to the father of Vildac-.-the cruel Vildac! Yet what
right have Ito complain? Should 1-should I call
man or tiger cruel?"-" What!" exclaimed I, with
astonishment, "is Vildac your son? Vildac! the
2G1

)
ii

-G


Ii

MARVELLOUS REPOSITORY.
monster! shut you from the sight of man! load you
with chains! And lives there such a wretch?"
"Behold," said he, "the' power, the detestable
power of riches. The hard and pitiless heart of my
unhappy son is impenetrable to every tender senti~.
ment: insensible to love and friendship, he is also
deaf to the cries of nature; and, to enjoy my lands,
has hung these eating irons on me.
"He went one day to visit a neighboring young
nobleman, who had lately lost his father; he saw him
encircled by vassals, and occupied in receiving their
homage and their rents: the sight made a shocking
impression upon the imagination of Vildac, which
had long been haunted with a strong desire to enjoy
his future patrimony. I observed at his return a de-
gree of thoughtfulness and gloom about him that was
unusual. Five days afterwards I was' seized during
the night, carried off naked by three men masked,
and lodged in this tower. I know not by what means
Vildac spread the report of my death; but I guessed,
by the tolling of the bells and funeral dirges, more
solemn than for inferior persons, they were perform-
ed for my interment~ The idea was horrid; and I
entreated most earnestly to be permitted to speak for
a moment to my son, but in vain: those who brought
me my food, do doubt, supposed me a criminal con-
demned to perish in prison. It is now twenty years
since I was first confined here. I perceived this
morning that my door was not secured, and I waited
till night to profit by the accident: yet I do not wish
to escape; but the little liberty of a few yards more
is much to a prisoner."
"No," cried I, "you shall quit that dishonourable
habitation. Heaven has destined me to be your de..
liverer, defender, support, and guide. Every body
sleeps; now is the time; let us be gone !"
"It must not be !" said he, after a moment's Si.
lence. "Solitude has changed my ideas, and my
principles. Happiness is but in opinion. Now that
I am inured to suffer, why should I fly from my fate?
262

PARRiCIDE PUNISHED.
What is there for me to wish in this world? The die
is thrown, and this tower must be my tomb !"
Surely you dream," answered I. "Let us not
lose time; the night is advanced: we shall presently
have but a moment. Come !"
"I am affected," replied he, "but cannot profit by
your kindness. Liberty has no charms for my small
remains of life. Shall I dishonour my son; or which
way has his daughter given me offence, to whom I
was never known, by whom I was never seen? This
sweet innocent sleeps happily in the arms o(her hus~
band, and shall I overwhelm her with infamy? Yet
might I but behold her! might I but lock her in
these feeble arms, and bedew her bosom with my
tears!~ 'Tis in vain! It cannot be! I never must
look upon her!
"Adieu! day begins to break, and we shall be
surprised. I will return to my prison."
"No," said I, stopping him; "I will not suffer it
Slavery has enfeebled your soul; I must inspire you
with courage. Let us be gone; we will afterwards
examine whether it be proper to make the matter
public. My house, my friends, my fortune, are at
your service. No one shall know whoyou are; and,
since it is necessary, Vildac's crime shall be con-
cealed. What do you fear?"
"Nothing! I am all gratitude! Oh, no! it cannot
he! Here I will remain!"
~"Well, act as you please; but if you refuse to fly
with me, I will go immediately to the governor of
the province, tell'him who you are, and return arm-
ed with his authority atid his power, to wrest you
from the barbarity of an inhuman child."
"Beware what you do! abuse not my confidence.
Leave me to perish. You know me not. I am a
monster! Day and the blessed sun would sicken at
my sight. Infamous I am, and covered with guilt-
guilt most horrible! Turn your eyes upon that wall;
behold these boards; sprinkled with blood, a' father's
blood 1-. -murdered by his son; by me !-Ha! I
265

1


MARVELLOVS REPOSITORY.

41
V.

RORSE AND OYSTERS.

A traveller went into an inn on a cold rainy day
and observing a good fire surrounded by a number
of countrymen, thought upon the following~ expedient
to get a good birth by the fire-side. Calling the ost-
ler, he ordered him to get a shilling's worth of oys-
ters, and then take them to his horse in the stable for.
him to eat, shells and all. The astonished country-
men withdrew, one by one, to see this extraordinary
eight, and the traveller placed himself by the side of
the fire. The ostler returnedand observed that the
horse would not eat them: then said the traveller,
open them and bring them to me, I will.
264

*1

behold! do you not see him! lie stretches forth his
bleeding arms! he begs for pity! the vital~-stream
flows out! he faIls! he groans! Oh, horror! mad
ness! despair!"
The miserable wretch fell convulsed with terror
on the floor; and when fear and passion in p~rt sub*
sided, he durst not turn his guilty eyes towards me,
where I stood transfixed with horror. As soon as
he had~the power, he approached the door:-" Fare~~-
well," said he, "be innocent, if you would beliap~
py! The wretch who solately moved your pity, is
now become detestable to you as well as to himself:
he goes unlamented to the dungeon, whence alive he
never shall return !"
I had neither the power to speak or move. The
castle had become a place most abominable; and I
departed in the morning. I must leave the neigh.
bourhood: I cannot bear the sight of Vildac, nor the
remembrance of this night. How, my friend, is it
possible that humanity can produce wickedness so
intolerable and unnatural!

CO1~UNICATIVE POCKETS.
TN the time of Dr. Faustus, lived at Bamberg a
itnight, named Herrman of Runenburg, a handsome
young man, who the fair sex in general viewe(1
with partial eyes, but whose affections yet continued
disengaged. Contrary to the custom of youth, his
heart was filled with mistrust: he considered all wo-
men as deceivers, and knew their scandalous chroni-
cle by heart. He had partly learned the facts from
intimate friends and jovial companions, and was
partly acquainted with themfrom his own knowledge.
At the age of twenty-five this suspicion of the fair
sex proved a great drawback on his happiness.
Whenever the language of his eyes would have be-
trayed him, his- jealous head was sure to check his
willing heart, and to impose silence on them. This
cost him many a struggle, which usually ended with
the exclamation, "How provoking, that no reliance
is to be placed on women !" These words had just
escaped him, perhaps for the thousandth time, when
he was walking on the banks of a river, his eyes
fixed on the ground, and his hands joined behind
hi~ back. He all at once espied a ring lying on
the sand at his feet. He picked it up. It was of
gold, in which was encased a crimson stone, it
did not seem to be of any great value, but was too
pretty to be left where it was. Herrman put it on
his finger and slowly pursued his walk.
It was not long before he heard some one running
after him. He turned, and 'beheld a man of tall
VOL. ii.   Y                205

4,
- s

2

3


COMMUNICATIVE POCKETS.

MARVELLOUS REPOSITORY.

~U ''I

'I

stature, and with a face uncommonly wrinkled, whie
his eyes glowed like fire beneath his bushy eye-brows.
"Strang~ r," said he, "have you found a ring?"
"Yes," l~e plied H errman,~ "is it yours?" "It is
mine, and most unfortunate shall I be unless I re-
cover it." "There it is!" said Ilerrman, and would
have pulled it from his finger. "Stop !" cried the
ma7n, in a~n authoritative tone; "be not so hasty.
You must restore it to me voluntarily."-" XVeIl,
there it is, voluntarily?' " I cannot take it till you
know who I am, and what virtue resides in this ring.
Fate compels me to reveal both, or to renounce the
ring for ever, as a punishment for my carelessness."
"Speak then !" "I am Dr. Faustus." Herrman
started. "I have heard a great deal about you,"
said he. "In this crimson stone," continued the
other, "is enclosed a powerful spirit. It is obedient
to the possessor of the ring. Now you know all. Be
generous."
Herrman was a good Christian, who wanted to
have nothing to do with suspicious spirits. He
therefore returned the ring, without ceremony, to
the great joy of the sorcerer. "You have acquired
a claim to my gratitude," said Dr. Faustus; "tell
me how I can serve you?" "I have no occasion for
your services," rejoined Herrman. "Who knpws,"
replied the other, ~' but what you may at some fu-
ture time, if you have not at present; you shall aI~
ways find me at your service." With these words
he dep~rted. "Ho! Doctor!" cried I{errman, as
soon as he was goume; "I have just thought that you
may, perhaps, have it in your power to render me an
important service just now." "VVhat is it ?" "I
would fain find a female on whom to fix my affec-
tions." "That is a business for which you don't
want my assistance. Beauty is the charm that iiiust
operate there." "But I should like to know whether
she to whom I would give my heart, is worthy of
possessing it. Can you teach me the art of reading
wh~it passes in the female bosom?" Dr. Faustus
I        266

smiled; "Indeed I cannot," said he, "neither cam
any of my spirits." "Then, farewell, I have nothing
farther to ask."
"Hem," muttered the magician. "I should be
sorry to let your kindness go unre(1uited. Let us
see what we can do. To comply with your wish in
its full extent is absolutely impossible, even if I were
to raise up Satan himself from the infernal regions;
but I can furnish you with the means of accomplish-.
ing your object in the majority of cases. Among my
sI)irits I have a little artful demon, whom I common-
ly use as a spy. I had lent him to a papal nuncio at
the imperial court, who is lately dead. A jealous
wife has, to be sure, just applied to me for the loan
of my Puttli, but you shall have the preference. He
shall accompany you wherever you go; he shall slip
into the pockets of all the persons with whom you
may happen to be in company, and inform you of
their contents." "And of what benefit will that be
to me?"~ "Of the very greatest, my dear friend. If
you did but know what people had in their pockets,
you would seldom be mistaken in your opinion con-
cerning them." "And if I should be at a loss what
inference to draw from the contents of a pocket, can
Puttli help me out?" "No: he can only give you a
faithful account of what he has found. It will be
your business to draw conclusions." "Well, I'll try
at least."
Dr. Faustus now began to make preparations to
summon little Puttli; but Herrman begged to dis-
pense with his personal attendance, alleging that it
was quite sufficient if he did but hear him. "You
shall hear me at the right time," suddenlyy cried a
delicate voice, which, in spite of its subtlety, caused
the knight to shudder. He soon became familiari~-
ed, however,1 with his invisible attendant. It was
not long ere he beheld Amalberga, a beautiful female
of eighteen, but whose heavenly features were usu-
ally overcast with a cloud of dejection. She was an
orphan, and had been left unprovided for by he~~
267

5
I I

~u *

1


MARVELLOUS REPOSITORY

father, a celebrated knight, who, on his death-bed)
j)urchased with his possessions an exemption from
purgatoryy , bequeathing to his child nothing but a
spinning-wheel and a loom, and the pious counsel to
take the veil. Amalberga, endowed with a warm:
and tender heart, felt no predilection for a monastic
life. She determined to try whether she could not,
by industry, earn sufficient to support herself in the
world in a manner becoming her birth. With rigid
economy, and by occasionally even abridging the in-
tervals of repose, she succeeded in the attempt.
Amalberga's beauty fixed Herrnian's eyes, which
faithfully transmitted the impression to his heart, but
he trembled at the idea of finding her pockets in con-
tradiction to the modesty of her demeanour; and it
was long before he woidd suffer the sanctuary of in-
nocence to be profaned by his roguery. At length
he determined to venture. The first experiments
proved satisfactory. There was nothing in the
locket but a handkerchief and a prayer-book.
CC Amalberga shall be mine !" triumphantly exclaim-
ed the knight. "Exult not prematurely," cried the
malicious demon, "the best women in the world are
fickle, one day they stand with one foot in heaven,
the next we can scarcely endure them in hell. Try
the girl a short time before you suffer her to draw the
net tight over your head." Herrman began to think
that the devil sometimes talks very sensibly, and
adopted his advice. For several successive, weeks
Puttli went daily to examine Amalberga's pocket,
but daily had to repeat his first report, and the
knight heartily enjoyed his triumph. One day,
however, a day on which an irresistible gloom again
beclouded the virgin's brow-Herrman was on the
point of throwing himself at her feet, when the
pocket. suddenly whispered-" I contain a forged
bill." "Thou liest!" retorted the youth, inflamed
with indignation. "Nothing can be more true than
that the bill is forged." "Then speak!-how is it
to be accounted for"" "I cannot tell." "How came
268

I.

COMMUNiCATIVE POCI~ET5.

7-i

ii
1'

s

it in her pocket?" "I do not know." "She may
be perfectly innocent." "Perhaps so; but the bill
is forged." This discovery vexed the knight, and
cqnfldent ~as he was of her virtue, he nevertheless
thought fit to defer the declaration of his passion.
How was he to clear up this suspicious circumstance?
In vain did he rack his brains how this was to be ac-
complished. The following day the bill had disap-
peared, and the prayer book occupied its usual place.
Herrman soon forgot the forged bill; but whenever
memory happened to dwell on it, heconsoled himself
with his who knows? and at length, when Amalberga
was mis sing for two whole weeks (nobody could tell
whither she was gone,) this, privation of the sight.of
her only served to inflame his passion. At length
she appeared again, pale, drooping, and more deject..
ed, but likewise more charming than ever. Herr-
man's lips opened a second time for the purpose of
pronouncing the sweet confession, when Puttli whis-
pered from her pocket-" H 'e is poison." "Poi..
son ?" "A dose that would s d a troublesome hus-
band to the infernal regions~ a trice." The knight
was thunderstruck.  ois  in the pocket of a beau-
tiful young female! t is .' deed too unaccounta..
ble, and love reluctantly yie e its place 'to suspi-
cion. Yet ever and anon would t e ormer suggest
from its corner, "It is p erhaRs y a cosmetic; a
little vanity is pardonable *" " o~ it is poison, I
tell you;" and in this declaration the'merciless Puttli
persisted. "Well, but may she 'not have procured
it merely to destroy the rats?" "Hardly! what
should it then be doing in her pocket?" "Perhaps
she has received it to-day from some friend, and in-
t ~nds to-night to make use of it."
Puttli was silent; hut the next and many succes-
sive days, he reported, with a sarcastic grin, that the
poison was still there. Herrman now sought the
cotnpany of Amalberga's uncle, in hopes that by his
means he might be enabled to unravel the mystery.
He had hitherto l)een rather shy of his acquaintance,
269


MARVELLOUS REPOSITORY.

4

C0MMTJ1~XCATtVE POCKETS.

3
I

for the old knight was known to the whole court to
possess a turn for satire, and in his youth had brought
himself' into many a scrape by his epigrams. "But
let us hear what testimony his pocket will bear him,"
said Ilerrman to the officious Puttli; and before the
words had passed his lips, the spirit complied with
his wish, " Here is a little box with splinters of
bones, evidences of the wounds received by the
knight in many a conflict for the bishop. Here is a
hard crust of bread, probably the reward bestowed
by the prelate for his heroic exploits. Here' is also a
billet from an old chamberlain." "Read it." "Be-
ware, sir knight, of the anger of' the bishop. Your
virtuous refusal has inflamed him to fury. He
swears to be revenged, and, in spite of you to accom-
plish his wicked purpose,' "Is that all ?" " It is."
" What has the knight refused to the bishop?" "I
do not know." "What wicked purpose has the
bishop in contemplation?" "I cannot tell." "Be
it what it wi 11, 1 know enough to be convinced that
the old knight is an honest man."
Herrman now neglected no opportunity of sound-
ing him respecting his niece, and even intimated his
intentions of proposing an honourable alliance, if
only certain mysterious circumstances could be clear-
ed up by the uncle's assistance: but he could get
nothing more from him than the assurance, on the
word and honour of a knight, that his niece was an
excellent girl, and that hewished her brother had
but a single drop of l3er blood in his ~reins. This
testimony was certainly encouraging-but the forged
bill !-the poison! "Pshaw !'~ cried Herrman, with
impatience, "she may clear up these matters when
we are married. At any rate, I will acquaint her
with my sentiments." Away he went the third time,
firmly resolved to declare to the fair Amalberga what
she had long since divined.
Once more Putt Ii abruptly cried," Stop !" "What
is the matter now, thou unmerciful demon? "Here
is a note by the side of the poison." "From whom?"
270

U
I
(I

Ii

"There is no signature." "Read it." Puttli read
as follows :-'~ It gave me pain, dear Amalberga, that
you should have murdered my child without the
I east pity. But a little reflection convinces me, that
I ought to commend your foresight. To have been
known as the father, might have been dangerous for
me and injurious t~ your reputation. 'What had
better remain a secret, would then have been the
talk of the town. By thy prudence thou haist put the
man to shame. Accept my thanks, thou dear and
trustworthy girl." " Confusion," exclaimed Herr-
man, "wh~it is this?" "Did you not hear?" rejoin-
ed Puttli, drily-" she has mui*lered a child. Now
it is evident for what purpose she wanted the
poison.',
H'errman shuddered. He resolved to banish the
image of hypocrisy from his heart forever. But how
was he to accomplish this, if he continued to see her
every day? He determined to join the crusade
against the pagan Lithuanians, and to seek in ruili-
tary enterprises either tranquility or death. "Sad-
dle my horse," cried he, late the same night to his
squire. " The morning sun shall see me far from
Bambero~" The steed was saddled, and he sprung
on his back. "Shall I attend you?" asked PuttI~
"Go to the devil!" replied Herrman, and in an in-
stant the little demon vanished with a loud laugh of
malicious ~joy.
Slowly, and with his eyes fixed on the ground, the
youth passed the gate, followed by his trusty squire.
TI~e moon threw a feeble light on his road. The
night was cool and rainy; but the chill gloom of na-
ture was not equal to that which pervaded his 'heart.
He had just passed the place of execution, when he
heard behind himi'ootsteps of a horse advancing at
full speed, and the loud shrieks of a female appa-
rently in great distress. Ilerrman immediately con~
clouded, that the sounds which assailed his ears origi-
nated in some violent attempt.-..-Mindful of the du-
ties of chivalry, he turned his horse about, fixed
271

"Ii

*

t

/

6


MARVELLOUS REPOSITORY.

himself firmly in his stirrups, and loudly called out to
the person advancing to stop. At the same time his
sword glistened in the moonlight, and the trusty
squire who carried his lance, brandislwd it over his
head till it whizzed again in the air. The stranger's
horse, on suddenly finding an obstruction in his road,
started back and snorted. The black rider uttered
(lreadflll imprecations, and the white figure behind
him piteous ly implored assistance. "Make way,"
cried the former, "whoever ye be, and let me pass.
The girl is my sister; I am carrying her to a con~
vent." "'Tis false !" exclaimed the female. "For.
heaven's sake have compassion on an orphan !"
Herrman recognized with horror the voice of Amal..
berga. Without farther consideration he fell on the
ravisher, who also knew how to handle his~sword,
and was not backward at returning the blows. Who
can tell how this conflict in the dark might have
terminated, had not Herrman's squire with his lance
unhorsed their opponent, and extended him sense~
less on the earth. "You are saved, fair Amalber..
ga," said Herrman, with a faltering voice; "com~.
inand whither I shall conduct you." "Gracious
God !" exclaimed the trembling maiden, "you are
the knight of Runenburg." "I am." ~~rIthen to yot~
[owe the preservation of my honour and of my life !"
At the word honour Herrman shrunk back, but fore..
bore' to reply. After a short pause, he coldly asked,
"Will you return to Barnberg?" She answered in
the affirmative. He ordered his squire to lead her
horse by the bridle, and himself rode slowly and
silently before to her habitation. Here he drily bade
her farewell, and turned his horse without making
any inquiry respecting her adventure. But Amal
berga embraced his knee with virgin modesty. "No,
sir knight," said she, "you shall not depart thus.
Come into my house, that I may refresh you with a
bowl of generous wine, and that by the taper's light
you may witness my grateful tears."--.A way? be
gone! cried Herrman's head: stay, whispered his
27

I
I

)

'ii'''
-~'' ~
~

I
I

COMMI. MCATIVE POCKETS.
heart, and he did stay. A delightful sensation thrill~
ed his noble frame when he entered Arnalberga's
neat apartment.-Here stood the spinning-wheel,
there the loom; and on the wall hung a picture of
St. Theresa.
The lady, agreeably to the ancient custom, loosed
the helmet of the knight with )~er own delicate fin-
gers, and took it from his head; and when he had
thrown his iron gauntlets on the table, she kissed his
hand. She then fetched a flagon of wine from a
closet, pie(lged him the bowl, and a tear dropped in-
to it. Wirrman quaffed the generous beverage1 as
indeed he would have (lone, had he been certain~ that
the poisonous drug lay at the bottom of the bowl.
He soon began to imagine that this wine was really
an enchanted potion, for liquid fire seemed ru~n
through all his veins: but it was love, whose ~fl ames
were again bursting from the ashes. "0 why is not
Putt ii here," thought he: "how should I rejoice to
fin(l her innocent!" She looked at him so kindly,
so tenderly-no, it was absolutely impossible she
could be criminal. He then enquired the name of
the person from whom he had rescued her. "Did
he not tell you himself?" replied Amalberga. "Alas?
he is my brother!" "Your brother !-how !-why?"
"Pardon me, sir knight, if I beg to be allowed to
draw a veil over this horrid secret." " Lady !"
cried Herrman, with a voice that betrayed his liro-
found emotion, "the moment is arrived in which I
must be made acquainted with every thing, and
sink confounded at your feet, or hurry away with a
heart rent by despair, to rush on the sabres of the
infidels."
Amalberga started, and looked timidly at him
"Lady," continued he, "you must long since have
perceived that I love you." At these words the blood
suddenly mounted into her pale cheeks. ~'Long
since," he continued, " should I have solicited your
hand like an honourable man, but for certain eNtr~..
ordinary circumstances, for which I was unable to
1118       O7~3

y

i
s


MA 1~VELr.OI'~  ~''~SiT9~V.
account. If you think it worth your while to clear
up my doubts, answer my inquriPs; and if you des-
pise not this hand, cor~ceal nothing from me." Amal-
b erga raised her eyes and replied, "I will conceal
nothing from you." "But ask no questions on the
subject, whatever may be your astonishment, that I
should be acquainted with things which you thought
hidden from. all the world." "I will ask no ques~
tion~," said Amalberga. "Well, then-some time
ago you had a forged bill in your pocket-" Amal-
berg a was thunderstruck. "But why so confused ?"
added Herrman. "How can I help being so? How
should you know it?" "You promised to ask no
questions. What was the meaning of this bill?"
"I have vowed to St. Theresa that the secret
should never escape my lips; but she is a witness to
our conversation, and, for the sake of my suspected
innocence, she will release me from my VOW: There
was an opulent merchant at Nurnberg, in whose
name this bill was forged, and who was fortunately
an old friend of my father's. He soon discovered
the culprit~ my unfortu~iate brother, who, caught in
the toils of a selfish woman, had no other means of
supporting her extravagance. Out of respect for my
father's memory, the merchant forbore to make the
transaction public, and merely required compensa-
tion to be made in private; but his indulgence was
repaid with abuse and scorn. On this he came to
me, and complainfMl that he should be necessitated
to stigmatize the name of his deceased friend, and at
the same time to wound my feelings. I was ex-
ceedingly alarm~d. I bad just then embroidered
a costly robe, '%~hich it took me two years to finish,
in those leisure hours which I could spare from the
wheel and the loom. I intended to show off in it at
the next tournament But I hesitated not a moment
to save the honour of my misguided brother, and to
preserve my ancient family from disgrace. I showed
my work to the Nurnberger, who was so well pleas~
ed with it that to compronuse the matter, he gave up
~74

I

S

~OMMUNIGATzvE POCKRT5.
the bill, and took the robe. I put the bill in my
pocket, to deliver it to my uncle as soon as I should
see him. This happened the next day. I never
said a word about it to my brother, in order to spare
his feelings."
"What !" exclaimed Herrman, "and this brother,
whose reputation you magnanimously preserved,
would have carried you off to-day by force?" "The
same." "I implore you, fair lady, to explain this
riddle also." " Give me your word, that you will
not betray my secret." "My word and my hor~ur."
"VV~ell, fhen, you must know, that the hypocritical
bishop has long been striving to ensnare my virtue."
"The bishop !" "He might probably imagine, that
my poverty favoured his base designs. He perse-
cuted me with proposals, which were rejected with
(leserved abhorrence.-He sought to gain my uncle
by splendid promises, but that excellent old-man,
though poor as myself, despised the powerful bishop.
He then concealed his mortification, praised my vir-
tue, and called me his daughter..-..-.FooI that I was,
he completely deceived me. Some months since-
perhaps you still remember the time when I was
away for two whole weeks." "Well do .1 remem-
ber it," replied Herrman, with a sigh. "The abbess
of Frauenthal had enticed me into her convent. I
considered her as a woman of integrity, and had no
conception that her sacred habit could cover such
villany. Too soon I found that she was but the
bishop's agent, and that, in the asylum of virtue, I
was to be delivered up to him either by fraud or
force. I was a prisoner. It was not long before he
made his appearance, and had recourse to entreaties
and threats. I gave myself u p for lost, but my pat..
ron saint did not forsake me;! prayed to her most
fervently, and she touched the heart of the porteress,
who opened the gate of the convent for me one very
dark night. I fled to my uncle; andas he has cen.
lidants at court, I was soon apprised, through him,
how the bishop had raved when he heard of my es-
275

S


MARVELLOUS REPOSiTORY.

II
(p

'4
Li
4

cape, and sworn he would, nevertheless, sooner or
later, accomplish his design. ~My uncle warned me
to be on my guard, and even advised me to remove
out of the bishop's dominions."
"And why did you not follow his advice?" asked
Herrman. "I intended," rejoined Amalberga, and
a deeper glow crimsoned her cheeks-" I intended,
but put it off from day' to day. Must I tell you
why?" At these words she raised her downcast
eyes, which made a modest confession, and then
again became fixed on the ground. "To what risks
have ou exposed yourself!" said Herrman, in great
agitat~n. "I thought," continued Amalberga, "that
the bishop would nevei~ set decency so far at defiance
as to carry me by force from my own house in the
midst of the town. Then again I took every possi-
ble precaution to frustrate his artifices. Against one
person only I was not on my guard, and that was my
own brother. My heart rejected, with horror, the
idea that he was capable of assisting in the execution
oI~ the atrocious project of his sister's dishonour.
How grievously was I mistaken! Him who was
always needy, the bishop has but too easily gained
over, and promised him one of his nieces in mar-
riage. Yesterday he persuaded me to pay a visit to
an aged blind aunt, who lives retired not far from
Bamberg. Without the least suspicion, I mounted
behind him. The old lady received us most kindly,
and entertained us in the best manner she could.
When it began to be dusk, I reminded my brother,
that it was time to return home. He made various
excuses for delaying our departure, so that it was
not till 'near midnight that we at length set out; but
instead of taking the road to Bamberg, he galloped
away, and threatened to murder me f I obstinately
persisted in spurning my good fortune, as he termed
it. The rest is known to you. Death would soon
have been my portion, had not the hand of Provi-
dence conducted to me a generous protector.
"Worse than death !" muttered Herrman. "0
276

COMMUNICATIVE POCKETS.
rio!" rejoined Amalberga; "for I had long provided
for the worst. Since the affair in the convent, I at..
ways carried poison about me. Had every other
hope failed, that should have saved me." "For
that purpose, was it?" cried Herrman, with trans-
port, and would have thrown himself at her feet,
when he suddenly imagined that he again heard
Puttli's voice, as he read the letter, the horrid con-
tents of which drove him from Bamberg. "Lady,"
stammered he, "there is but one more weight that
presses on my heart. Your frankness gives me
courage. The most atrocious circumstance of all
yet remains to be explained.'* "The most atro-
cious?" 'repeated Amalberga, with astonishment.
"I have nothing more to explain." "Have you not
murdered a child?" She shuddered. "Surely you
cannot be serious!" "Can you deny, that a few
days since there was in your pocket a note without
signature, doubtless from so~ne favoured lover, who
thanked you for having murdered his child, and
thereby saved your reputation ?"
Herrman was not a little confounded when Amal.
berga suddenly burst into a loud laugh. She open-
ed a draw and took out a paper,'which she handed
to him. "Do you mean this?" said she. "The
same." "It is from my old uncle. You are ac-
quainted with his satirical turn. When I related
to him my adventure in the convent, he was at
first highly exasperated, and vowed that he would
run the bishop through the body. I reminded him
of our poverty and weakness, and that it would be
better to say nothing about the matter, than to give
scope to malicious tongues, and to draw down on us
the vengeance of a powerful enemy. I succeeded
in pacifying him; but a few days afterwards he could
not withstand.the impulse to write a long and cut-
ting satire on the bishop, with the intention of dis-
tributing it at court. I trembled for the conse-
hluences, and begged him to lend me the piece, as
though I wanted to read or copy it, and threw it into
VOL. H.    Z                277

d

I.

I,


MARVELLOUs REPOSITORY.

the fire. This is what he in this note jocosely calls,
murdering his child."
It is impossible for language to describe the feels.
ings of the knight when he beheld the object of his
affections standing before him pure and unimpeacha-
ble. sLove and shame bWent his knees, and the vehe-
mence of' his passion pleaded in excuse of' the odious
suspicion. Th   ollowinrg day he presented Amal-
berga as his wife to the bishop, who " grinned horri-
bly a ghastly smile."-The old night celebrated the
union of' his niece in a spirited epithalamium, and
never did a happier pair ascend the bridal bed.-
Herrman daily discovered new attractions in his
wife. She had but one fault, in common with all
her sex-curiosity. She did not rest, till in a happy
moment she drew from her husband in what manner
he had become so intimately acquainted with the
contents of her pocket. He obliged her indeed to
promise with an oath, not to reveal the secret; and
she faithfully kept her vow for many years. But
when her beautiful daughters grew up, Amalberga
could not withstand, the impulse which. she felt to
communicate it to them. Thus it circulated pri-
vrately from one to 'another, till at length it was trans
mitted to the present age, in which the ladies may
perhaps have still stronger reasons than even those
of former times, for not turning their pockets inside
out. But, behold! in order to prevent the danger of
being betrayed by some malicious Puttli, they su-
denly and unanimously came to the resolution-of
twearing infuture no pockets at all'.
278$                           --

I

ii

THE PIG. A TALE.

p

I:

A'

[
[

Some husbands, on a winter's day,
Were met to laugh the spleen away
As wine flows in, and spirits rise,
They praise their consorts to the skies.
Obedient wives were seldom known,
Yet all could answer for their own.
Acknowledg' d each as sov'reign lord,
A broad, at home, in deed, in word:
In short as absolute their reign, as
Grand seignor's over his sultanas.
For pride or shame to be outdone,
All jn'd in thma dicore obut one,,
Thus stops their arrogant career:
Whaisa miystrange, sirs, what you say!
In England, where Italians wise
Have plac'd the women's Paradise?
In London, where the sexes flower
Have of that Eden fix'd the bowers
Fie, men of sense to. be so vain!i
You're not in Turkey or in Spain
True Britons all, I'll lay my life,
None here is master of his wife.
These words the gen'ral fury rouse,
And all the common cause espouse,
'Till one with voice superior said,
(Whose lungs were sounder than his head,)
I'll send my footman instant home,.
TIo bid his mistress hither come;
And if she flies not at my call,
To own my pow'r before you all,
279

'4


i

P
I

4.

THE PIG.

MA RVELLOUS REPOSITORY.
I'll grant I'm hen peck'd, if you please,
As Sh-ck or as Socrates.
Hold there, replies th' objector siy,
Prove first that matrons never lie;
Else words are wind. Totell you true,
I neither credit them nor you-.
No, we'll be judg'd a surer way,'
By what they do, not what they say.
I'll hold you severally that boast,
A supper, at the loser's cost,
That if you'll but vouchsafe to try
A trick P'll tell you by and by,
Send strait for ev'ry wife quite round,
One mother's daughter is not found,
But what before her husband's face
Poi nt-blank his order disobeys.
Iro this they one and all consent; .
TIhe wager laid, the summons went.
Meanwhile he this instruction gives,
Pray only gravelystell your wives,
Your will and pleasure is t' invite.
These friends to a boil'd Pig to-night
r he commoner the trick has been,
'rhe better chance have you to win: -
The treat is mine if they refuse; -
But if they boil it, then I lose.
The first to whomn the message came
Was a well-born and haughty dame;
A saucy, independent she,
With jomnture and with pin-money,
Secur'd by marriage deeds from wants,
Without a sep'rate maintenance'.
Her loftiness disdain'd to hear
Half through her husband's messenger,
But cut him short with--How dare he
'Mong pot-companions send'for me ?
He knows his way, if sober, home,
And if he wants me, bid him come..
This answer, hastily return'd,
Pleas'd all but him that it concern'd;
280

For each man thought his wife, on trial
WXould brighter shine by this denial.
The second was a lady gay,
Who lov'd to visit, dress, and play;
To sparkle in the box or ring,
And dance on birth-nights-for the king
Whose head was busy wont to be
With something else than cookery.
She hearing of her husband's name,
Tho' much a gentlewoman, came.
When half-inform'd of his request,
A dish as he desir'd it drest,
Quoth madam, with a serious face,
Without enquiring what it was,
You can't sure for an answer look,
Sir, do you take me for your cook?
But I must haste a friend to see,
Who stays my coming for her tea.
So said, that minute out she flew;
What could the slighted husband do?
His wager lost must needs appear,
For none obey that will not hear.
The next, f'or housewifery renown'd,
A woman notable was own'd,
Who hated idleness and airs,
And minded family-affairs.
Expert at ev'ry thing was she,
At needle-work or surgery;
Fam'd for her liquors far and near,
From richest cordial to small beer.
To serve a feast she understood,
In English or in foreign mood;
Whate'er the wanton taste could choose,
In sauces, kickshaws, and ragous,
She spar'd for neither cost nor pain,
Her welcome guests to entertain.
Her husband fair accosts her thus:
To-night these friends will sup with us
She answer'd with a smile, my dear,
Your friends are always welcome there.--
VoL.11.   ZQ2                281

'1

A

~ '4

I

I.

'I

4,

I


/

MAR VELLOTi~POSITORY.

:4

~ji

But we desire a pig; and pray,
You'll boil it.---Boil it, do you say ?
I hope you'll give me leave to know
My bus'ness better, sir, than so. .
Why! ne'er in any book was yet
Found such a whimsical receipt;.
My dressing none need be afraid of,
But such a dish was never heard of.
P'll roast it nice,-but shall not boil it;
Let those that know no better spoil it
Her husband cry'd, for all myboast,
I own the wager fairly lost.
And other wives besides my love,
Or I'm mistaken much, may prove
More changeable than this to me,
To shew their pride in housewifery. .
Now the poor wretch who next him sat,
Felt his own heart go pit-a-pat,
For well he knew his spouse's way;
Her spirit brook'd not to obey;
And never yet was in the wrong:
He told her, with a smiling tongue,
Where, and on what his friends would feas
And how the dainty should be drest.
To-night ? quoth in a passion she;
No, sirs, to-niight it cannot be.
And was it a boil'd pig you said?
You and your friends sure are not mad!
The kitchen is the proper sphere,
Where none but females should appear:
And cooks their orders, by your leave, -
Always from mistresses receive.
Boil it! was ever such an ass!
Pray, what would you desire for sauce?
If any servant in my pay
Dare dress a pig that silly way,
In spite of any whim of' your's,
I'll turn them quickly out of doors; -
For no such thing, nay, never frown, .
Where I am mistress shall be done.

THER PG,

Each woman wise her husband rules
Passive obedience is for fools.
This case was quickly judg'd. Behold,
A fair one, of a softer mould;
Good humour sparkled in her' eye,
And unaffected leasantry.
So mild and sweet she enter'd in,
Her spouse thought certainly to win.
Pity such golden hopes should fail,
Soon as she heard the appointed tale;
My dear, I know not, I protest, -
Whet her in earnest or in jest
So strange a supper you demand;
Howe'er, I'll not disputing stand,
But do't as freely as you bid it,
Prove but that ever woman did it.
This cause, by general consent,
Was lost for want of precedent.
Thus each deny'd a sev'ral way,
But all agreed to disobey.
One only dame did yet remain,
Who downright honest was and plain:
If now and then her voice she tries,
'I'is not for rule, but exercise.
Unus'd her lords commands to slight,
Yet sometimes pleading for the right,
She made her little wisdom go
Farther than wiser women do.
Her husband tells her, looking grave,
A roasting pig I boil'd would have;
And, to prevent all pro and con,
I must insist to have it done.
Says she, my dearest, shall your wife,
Get a nick-name to last for life ?
If you resolve to spoil it, do,
But I desire you'll eat it too;
For tho' 'tis boil'd, to hinder squabble,
I shall not, will not sit at table.
She spoke, and her good man alone
Found he had neither lost nor won,
283

L

4, 44
p

42
~1

4
4


THE GAUGER'

MAflVELLOITS RF~P05IT0RY.

.11

THE GAUGER OF GARSTANG
Some thirty years have flown away
Since Garstang had a gauger wise,
Who softly in his tomb is laid
Where death at last has closed his eyes;
For well, I trow, the smuggler bold
He followed in their nightly scenes-
And well he knew the mountain fires,
And what the musket's rattle means.
Heav'n rest his soul! whole butts of gin,
He'd taken from these miscreant fellows,
A drop of grog he lov'd himself,
And swigg'd away, as people tell us
But soft! my muse, he's silent now,
Dry is his tongue, now turning dusty;
And like the empty cask, I guess,
His bones are smelling rather musty.
~254

So fairly parted stakes. The rest
Fell on the wag that caused the jest:
VVouId your wife hoi'. it? Let us see
Hold there-you did not lay with me.
You find, in spite 'f all you boasted,
Your pigs are fatted to be roasted.
The wager's lost, no more contend,
But take this counsel from a friend:
Boast not your empire, if you prize it,
For happiest he that never tries it.
Wives u nprovok'd think not of sway;
Without commanding they obey.
But if your dear, ones take the field,
Resolve at once to win or yield.
For heaven no medium ever gave
Betwixt a sov'reign and a slave.

1*

One night he sallied forth for fun,
As he had got some information;
A smuggler would convey some gin
Across a heath within his station.
He met the smuggler, took his gin,
With half an hour's pretended fighting;
For many other tubs of gin
The smuggler had that night for righting.
The battle o'er, he looked around,
When lo! a fog comes quickly spreading
Across the heath, and nought was seen,
But just the ground that he was treading;
[n ditch and bog he scrambled long,
And, tired the tub of gin to carry,
He seats himself upon its end,
And waits to see the ev'ning starry.
In vain he waits-still darker grew
The dismal night, which loud was howling,
So on the heath he took his bed,
And patient heard the tempest rolling.
But ere he sunk his head in sleep,
With gin his heart with joy was soaring,
Then stretching out his mouth and hands,
He set up a tremendous snoring.
Some colliers early in the morn,
Along the heath to work were going,
And found, by chance, the gauger drunk,
Hard with his mouth for wind a-blowing,
Mid, lest he should die with the cold,
Into a coal-pit deep they took him,
And placed him, snoring, in a part,
Where, working, they could overlook him.
He s1~ept some hours-then faintly lifts
His peepers sad and wild around him,
When all the colliers, black as imps,
With horror and dismay confound hint

4


t

MARVELLOUS REPOSITORY

tie thought he'd pass'd from life to death,
And by pot-luek was with the devil,
So he address'd them, one and all,
With look and tone both wond'rous civil.
Then eyeing well the ugliest man,
Who grin n'd most horribly with joy,
"'I hope an honest gauger here,
Your highness never will annoy.
On earth a gauger true I was;
But, mister devil, if' it please ye,
At any job of' dirty work,
I'll do my best, great sire, to please ye
Whatever place in Hell ye like,
With honest heart I will endeavour
To fill my part with burning zeal, ,
And merit your good word for ever,"
The gauger spoke--when peals of fun, .
Burst from the devils rang'd around him;
Their sooty looks and gleaming eyes
Were quite sufficient to astound him.
He scream'd aloud with abject fear,
" Oh spare me, mister devil, spare me!
Let not your cinders burn me up,
Let not your angry talons tear me!"
" Well," quoth the Devil, "swear by me,
If back to earth again I send thee,
No smuggler's gin thou'lt take away,
But be to him a gauger friendly." -
*I swear, I swear, by heav'n and earth,
And all your brothers at me staring,
On ev'ry smuggler's gin or rum
My hand shall ever be forbearing."
" Well, then, go home," the collier cried,
" From this thou wilt become some wiser,
And from this time be it thy pride,
To call Old Nick thy Supervisor."
286

CONTENTS.

Anecdote of King George the III.
Archy Tait, the Village Chronicle,
A bbe of Calvados, - - -
Basil Lee, Adventures of, -
Bleeding Finger,    -    -    -
Bottle Imp, - - - -
Communi'cative Pockets, - -
Cross Readings in Verse,      -
Cynic's Vocabulary, Extracts from a
bumb Prophets,     -    -   - -
Dean Swift's Ballad on a Murder,

U

--     -   178
-      25
-     -     59
-     -.    61
-     -    193
- - 85
-     -    265
-     -    142
-238
--          57
--     -   118

Expressions of Compassion at a Card Table,      178
Field of Terror,      -    -    --   -     -      3
Fable of' Japhet, the Son of' Noah,  -     -     20
False Guardian,       -    -    -    ..          35
Fiery Ordeal,    -    -    -    -    -     -     36
Fly Maker,      -     -    -    -    -     -    121
Flying Dutchman,      -    -    -    -     -    133
Ghost of My Uncle,         -    -    -     -    181
Golden Tooth,         -    -    -     -    -    253
Henry VIII. and the Abbot of Reading,      -    239
Horse and Oysters,         -    -    -     -    264
Teffery Hudson in the Pie,      -    -    -      75
Miracle Monger,      -     -    -    -     -     74
Mysterious-Pack,-               - -     -       217
Peter Rugg, the Missing Man,         -     -    145
287

I

I

[


1.

CONTENTS,

Petrified Corpse,    -    -    -    ..
Parliament ary Error,       - -     -
Parricide Punished,            -    -
Renee Corbeau,       -    -    -    -
Sir Richard Steele and the Seven Bulls,
Supernatural Warning,     -    -    -
Singular Will,'      -    -    -    -
Superatitions of New-England, -
Terrific Spectre in Switzerland,    -
The Apparition,      -    -    ..   -
The Boar wolf,       ..   ..   -    -
The Butterfly,  -    -    -    -    -
The Conjuror,        -    -    -     -
The Gauger,     -    -    -
The Ghost,     --         -    - ,-
The Mountain Doctor,     -a         -
The Pig. A Tale, .-       -    -    -
Unconscious Poet, -   --       -    -
Wandering Jew, Legend of the -
288

-180
- 240
- 260
- 113
-     192
-      76
-      84
-     129
-      33
-22-
-      37
-     144
--- 230
- 284
-      79
-      $3
-279
- ~111
- 17

p

REPRODUCED FROM THE COPY IN THE
HENRY E. HUNTINGTON LIBRARY

FOR REFERENCE ONLY. NOT FOR REPRODUCTION

I

-v

.1.
ki


  
             
         
       
   
