
    ----CITATION----
        Preston, Paul.. The Bootmaker of the Fifth Avenue .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC7439
    ----FULL TEXT----
         
      
         
            The bootmaker of the Fifth Avenue 
            
               I

4

I  p
A

THE

BOOTMAKER OF THE FIFTH AVENUE,

A STORY OF THE

PETROLIOMANIA IN NEW-YORK CITY.

Bir PAUL PRESTON,
AaTaou or-"THE BLACK BAND," "THE PRit E O  iE ARENA,"  a
POuU I TAL,

HILTON &amp; CO., PUBLISHERS,
No. 128 Nassau SIaU.

r(  J7
/

S             1               _
i
I      "    n
n                                                     J
t                      _t
4 f                                      -
_,           y                                                    ,
/   s, ,                 c Y tL                    S      T=     s
'                          F *                              i
_
r
i                              '                  s

_      a-
i                       ,.
i-                              "    ,     4

a   ' -              - -,
-  _
., ;
t
A                -,
f
_    t

IPA
'01L #
4 X'
,a-'   ;-fit  ".    -  - .e  -   °._  -  ., '+      '*" ,_"+a,   rj.,  "aw -,           "y     .
,#                                           Y
yA 1.
ti

Y      -              F                J
,
a           s
iiS4
" rya              i
i
M             '

U
.                      t
rr
'                      f
b
g
F                    ti
1
y     ",i
yy         V
i         1          w  "
7
"     .      T.r
"         z

'1

'            !

h
Y

Y

r
t  «          i

,7


Rntered according to Act of Congress, in the year 1866, by HILTON &amp; CO., in
the Clerk's Office of the District Court of the United States
for the Southern District of New York.

&amp;

I

I

I

i
C
"                           y
i

r
I

.._...p.                              r   ~s:iv 'rr 's~~s "             .,..,. . «t-

s

"

THE BOOT 1MAKR OF                      E FIF'        5AVENE.
CHAPTER 1.                 "The great, ig ddbeiver,'" quoth
another damsel, hanging on the arti of
TR5 VfILLAGE INN AT BEAUVIEW.    a riistc adniirer, "after all that he has
said to bie."
"My dear widpw, 'pon my honor, " Well, Amanda," and Mr., Sickles
you're the plumpest lguro and= will blushed almostto the tip of hisnose, as
prove the lightest dancer for forty miles he ventured to reply to this-serious. so-
around.",                          ie sation, "I nst say that there was a
With this compliment Mr. Solomon time, when I did like to 4hink or you
Sickle, who borethereputation of being to"
14te, ,iUdage beau of pko township ofjs "The factsis, .r, ,ickle," quoth the
Beauview, a locality which isted some widgw Vernon rwvth a spice of. quiet
quarter of a century back:amid "the- in= satire in the 4ne pf ' ;her voico, "I a5In
terior region of the Jersies, conduct-; araid that your agection aun ppre,eia-
du1s partna into the public parlor of tion, araqualities which you Jve, die-
the quaint old hostelrie, which graced tributed too freely for your own happi-
the township aforesaid.             ness, for a rolling stone, as. you know,
"You're very coauplimentary, I'm  gathers no moss,"
Lure," returned t  blushing Mrs. Ver-  Mary Vernon was still gung hand-
non, and she averted her eyes tpwards home, edudatud woman, and ha been
a group affair ones, who had preceded the'reigning belle of her district, at, a
her to the sitting apartment, "but I'm  period :hen Join Vernon-'thrivig
afraid that you say justss pretty things fa  m  h       n  i     thE ieg
farmer', some three years since, inter-
to all the rest of the sex."edt                   er ofin a nti  tri-
No I don't," retorted Ir. Sickle, as p osed to  i r
h    umph. Their connubial bliss had how-
he pressed the hand of the, fair widow;.                       af
tver, been short lived, for, at the endof
with" more than allowable compression
the year, the happy husband sickened
" I only lie you, that I do; as for the  .
Y   '                 of epidermc, and, to the sincere _be-
other women folk, I don"t think onr         t      a        t       ,
them-"                             reavement-of his affectionate-pouse
", How  can you say so, Solomon was translated'to another world.
Sickle 7, broke in:a young hoyden,'A universal titter followed this sally
whose laughing eyes told the story of of the handsome widow, for any alliiou
as to the vanity of Mr. Sickle:' amorous
,o ,'interruption.
pretensions, as certain tobereceived
Welleillsa.e   a Jaee- with favor, by the group of giddy
sponded the village beau, with an ex- damsels, who had:alternately been the
pression of comparative sheepishness, subjects of his prior protestations and
" I have,'oi times, thought on you." iamentations.

#

I


THE BOOT MAKER OF THE FIFTH AVENUE.

"There now, Solomon," quoth the
hoyden Mary Jane, "just see what you
get, even from a widow--I'd be ashamed
of myself."
The village beau was slightly $scon-
certed, for, upon this occasion of a wed-
ding feast, ho had resolved to avail him-
most of     ppqrtmiy,
b phw  i    eard fthe
obdurate widow Vernon ,i to make an
cuadurable mark upon those of the 'ma~npy
oneswho, disputed with her the
p     of al eauty.:  .
,r. So:rnon Spkle, suddenly brought
to the confessional, stammered out a#
e,. whi      only aggravated the un-
pmesauiueacs of his position, especially
-e theiatteudant be aof hisinquisitors
.uxhibited signs of satisfaction at 'his
'evident distaenforthre.
Paruo uit, Solomon," quoth Mi.
er ioi kindly, ta l  comipassion upon
hers cavalai'1 embkfra$sient,"- I will
{ libvae. y6  from Emny f&amp;t &amp;e waste of
omlimet; upon 'm6, for you must
kuo* that itis nt uay intention to in-
dalgo agai-inr' matrimony."
ttick ly for the diversion of attention
from the hapless Sickle,"at this precise
Juicture, lidere entered the parlor the
master of the revels for the day, or
rather iight, an important personage
*hoso acvent had created a' fatter of
lenent among-the assembled belles,
nxoas o ascertain the details of the
a  r   hci~g fesvity, which was to
tr4   ate wedding ceremonial.
L dig and;genitlemen," quoth Mr.
vT root, gr9gjsmau and master of cere-
monies with dictatorial solemnity,"
an'eall 'partners,-ain't, you? All
g    Remnouples, all right oh ?
i rhM hatInig Cdsetthe half dozen
ion:nd a     ainny-of the fairer se
#&amp;daup before hitn in h ror:, he cute-
Y+ idnted themn off; and deli fated
tkll One gertosmn ws  6    s
ornd. One gentleman wa's desti tute of

a mate, for the fair widow now announ-
ced her determination ofno longer con-
tinuing her pilgrimage to the wedding
feast.
"Not going to dinner," ejaculated Mr.
Sickle disconsolately. "Why I've got
my best team, and the Willow grove
'I ,E   n         $"      p4  .
groomsman," and I've got such a
rousing dinner, brook fish, lake fish,
turkies, chicken, geose--"
"You aint got any hare, have you 1"
intercepted Mr. SolomanS ickle, who
evidently appeared determined to seek
consolation forthe widow's absence by
a vigorous Assuit upon 'the edibles.
Be6ides Soliman acknowledged a pecu-
liar weakness for game, and paricularly
fo'r'hare, when duly cooked and trun-
" Not a hare 1" respoi ded the groomas-
an modnornfully.
" 'h'at' 'uad;" rejoined 'the village
beau, "why couldn't .you get a hare."
"Becuse he didn't look for them,"
interupted   deep toned' voies and
from the passage way of the inn *'there
entered 'a large grin visaged man
whose aspect, despite' his youth and
striking features, had so ginikter an ek-
priuion, that each one of th assembl-
pe company seemed instinctively to
avoid contact *ith him.
"You here, Devine?" ej eulated the
groomsman in suprise,
"1 I wer'nt invited I know," muttered
the farmer sportsman, for Devine bore
in his hand a gun, while other impli-
ments of the chase were suspended from
his person. "But I suppose there is no
law against any man showing 'iniself
inywhore-even, among boors." a :; a
"lBoors!" exclaimed the entire:com-
pany, palpably annoyed at the ,unwel-
come intrusion of one unQage inal, to
the ent4iro assembled group:.
"; Yes, boors!" repeate  yntuet-
ing a sardonic glance upon the grooms-

A!

man i"toierwise youvugld not lmaye
forgotten the rules of decency,.4 x
Leave me out.in,,p oldp while yOIu are.
pjoyuig yourpe ves
,"W9uld yo have , u  iar-a1festIa ".
said $4eiioyen ~ry Jggue, wtho igenia
of the conpe  a 'y appoavel sul |gently
geso1nta, tubeard thr  )igny ihug 1wP
in their path, "by bringing :i.h ura
brute. beast,Mwo is always grow ing
iake one of his dogs-'p          n
"That ' so," confidentiallynuirmured
SolomanSickel.
"A vomuan' tonhne is no slander,"
riEspoNded DvIins ias h6 broulit "his
hand shatplyipou his high 'but tel,
-'e1id ii4A9 her kindf61kW htitW  alb
er ie ins will bonhadifk idhr'P 6f.
tithe.   fx                   i tl
livaI''aAa i hand, when  'want-
ed,''mutreduMa'y ea;pshiini her
companion sonewhatrudel  o"the' end
of the pario'.' dwt'saIeaf'h'tli. brute
to amuse those rho iksithii-tat'ii
The remainder 'of t .e  icoIn e i-
latng the example of the determinate
hoyden, Mr.Watt r     s wva&amp; left to
his own nieditations. 1Nis gyes. fiafsid
fire, as he noted the evideit'displeasure
of hiis neigbons, ho Heither concealed
;nor disguised their aversionto pi re-
a       ' . 1 -,  of '':  s  p re
sncen. 'Bt one alone of th assemoy
ui  aithtr c'hn'°ia; herIplac,'iiore  p  ihii-
spaedIn the 4ei onstratibx oal1st
unainous' contempt.   The     4ow
Verron,,je elp g   oi, thear of Solo-
19 s igo,'repailed a tranquilobsery
er of a-aoene as,"ne of no iaterest to
her.           °
"Mary," quoth Domins, . ,advaneipg
to   [ the, wi ow as .es ectfully  as ,   hi ;
ga ff iutnggs oi d 1Rdeoe,:lihy 4o
reto     sc nt m tbgb   g  li9e  le
"I .noreaspn-fov -so doing," re-,
plied. the w gftily,
lution," said the sportsman fereyntl,

1   r, twAqbjv i'   ,h1t     A$I2  ,'  *I  7's'ei'
for me in ex  Om  t  P in7'fo  ,r-
s:  "    miolg~ad,thoschlow  rop-
{'jiyo hgw   onemre 4lpleping'to
'yrmnd,'?u W+le  ibs.grated
pis teeth asmlim e sokeit*ithiaasb,-
Bingone of va ce, some g ouggiass  k
or man of greater beau 'gpN,,  y
g   eer 'replied, M4m'Wetrxoui, with
a deOej7'tnwn sigh  ; "I ' # i ~drth
erve-fmy hisaidineVidry driinto
sa   a~d   . ,If  h r1y"''kep 'ily
"Theep wdsras" ertede'ies ith
or mant ofgeter bat dn  d, ea
aon wy you h1a te 'm e aicold
7ua rTI ai            rej   bi yt  j
" du dhe' yrd ireto'I r'  th
a   fa'ag  e6Wnde "bat  adl:e
oiply' ea   A   " hais arha
on iiat cmotti wo'fh buy see
husband or the th rbr'.'' 7

ly. . Don't add h1 dosy t or it -
er fa  s..A,.9zyan 4on'J adu6ge in
elicit amours  or notlil1g, and 'Iam
posted wit u regard 9y0ogur intrigues)'
4 ' =Intrigtues4" 7 j adulated the :widow
with 'a lookof dikda4d6lnt., E)-
'fYes," eiiaDeviha;lai ig greatatres
'ipopi the'wdrd, yn% . yhiyter your-
saif yondhawde Mei  1gt mA   b,# my
cyes havosibeen  aId ' waJ. I b ve
seen; the4hildMaryJ'&amp;'    ,
1filh4ehi     '.i es ek4ps. the idowr
hinlhing dely.

/1

4F rk  41

18

g

i


THE BOOT MAKER OF THE FIFTH AVENUE.

21

"V'es, the child," continued Devina village of Beauview with their pres
with a faint chuckle. - "I am a .good ence-"
hand to mount guard, always on duty,  "That's so," interrupted Walter Dev
you know. Poor little infant, dreadful- in, well accustomed to mine host's dis
ly neglected, nobody comes to -see itj course, which had been delivered to
neither father or mother. But, Mary, I'll very newcomer for the space of at least
find oat theiwhole' thing."       ten years, "not for any superior accom-
Mary Vernon, although annoyed that modation but because there paint any
her obnoxious suitor'bad discovered a other in town."
secret she would have desired to have  Mine host stopped short and darter
preserved, thanked heaven, that- his a look of contempt upon his unwelcome
watching had not been attended with guest, whilethelady gave a few direct-
'th. diction' of the parents of the in-- ions to her maid to return to the car-
fnt she had so mysteriously entertain- riage and there seek some articles of at-
ed at her cottage.                 tire accidentally left behind in the hur-
"Walter, you are crazy," said the wi- ry of their leaving the vehicle.
dow on recovering her composure.    "You must-pardon me," said the lady
"You are more crazy than I am, with an amiable expression, while a
Mary," retorted'Devins, " and you will smile gracefully illuminated a counten-
find it out before many days roll by, I ance sobered down by palpable grief,
tell you  Ic.a"     .          *   "but an accident has occurred; to my
"Why.am n  crazyI" and the widow carriage and forcedipe to seek a tempo-,
smiled, but gloomily.,             rary refuge in tWB. hotel. ,You will,
"Because you have disdained my therefore excuse m    compulsory trees
love," responded Walter, and his voice pass upon, your hospitality, until the in-'
fellito a low tone each as -the croak of jury be repaired."
the raven, "remember what I tell you,  "Io annoyance, xpa'am," quoth the
Mary. I am something -of a fortune master of the'revels; " we are merely
teller. Beware, there as a direful mis- stopping for the moment until all our
fortune in your way."              wagons are come to carry us to a wed..
"I fear it not,".said the widow deter- ding five miles off.
minately,'and1 as if to avoid any far - " Jack is only waitin ' for Black DicM
ther'atllsion to the theme of their con- the fiddler," interposed Mr. Solomon
versation, is. Vernon turned to the Sickle, unwilling to lose uy oppor tuni-
company, retired to the further end of ty'to show off before a 1dy of quality,
the chamber and addessed them gaily.: such as was then present 'l
"happy all. but poor Solomon, girls are  d  And when he  ome   we'll have a
you' not afraid of being late to the wed- dancee" interposed the isoyden Mari'
dino  'arJane, "first,by way ofkillir gtime; may-
bis, madame, is the Eagle Hotel in be the lady would like to take part in 2
the. village of Beauview," interposed good old country dance."
the voice of Seth Hicks, the burly pro-  "If that's so," interrupte Solomon,
prietorof this iral hostlery,ashe some- unwilling to allow his thuder to be
what gallantly ushered into the parlor stolen from him. "I'll takd her hand
a young lady, habited in fashionable at- for the first set.,'
tire and attended by a female domestic. " The lady is doubtless tho tired,'
"This house, madam, was patronized by remarked Mrs. Vernon, as she advance-
all the presidents of this blessed count- to the new comer and saluted her re
ry, who have honored the flourishing spectfully.

The stranger smiled graciously, for itj "It's too far off, Walter," remarked
was evident that the parties recognized Mrs. Vernon, who was evidently reluc-
egeh other, notwithstanding an evident tant for her city friend to accept the pro-
anxiety on the part of both to conceal posal and yet perplexed as to the means
their previous acquaintance,       of conveying indirect information as to
" I thank you very kindly," said the her disinclination "away out in the
city lady blandly. "I have truly need words."
of repose, anp. no.si po ition to break  "So much the better," responded
in upon your revels," then turning to Walter. "I have no neighbors to over-
Mrs. Vernon she cast upon her an in- look my affairs, and I like to exist in
quiring glance, and whispered : "Where comfortable solitude."
is the child, Mary; is she well ?"  "I accept your offer, my kind sir,"
"At four o'clock," returned the wid- and the'lady bowed gracefully.
cw, in a subdued tone of voice, "I will  "Nay, don't, Miss Henrietta," whis-
bring it with me, to this house if you peered Mrs. Vernon.
destre it, madam."                  "And why not, my dear Mary?"
"Ilut this crowd ?" inquired the lady  "Because-," and the, widow stopped
somewhat anxiously. short as she-perceived that-the piercing
"They will depart long before that I glances of Walter Devins were directed
time," returned the widow.        full upon her.
Had it been possible to have disguised  "I am not afraid," responded the
the fact of a previous intimacy existing strange lady, unable to interpret the
between the widow and her friend, the meaning of M try's significant words
keen observation of Walter Devins "you will go with me, and beside he
would have solved the mystery of their will be anxious to meet me alone, as if
low-toned interchange of words. The he mu it."
personal appearance of the stranger,  "It is not a splendid mansion," ob-
her elegant habits and graceful man- served Walter, "such as you have been
ners betokened to the 'former, who had accustomed to, but then it is better
spent- a portion of his younger days in 'athisdinn whicheisioverruntwit
the immediate vicinity of a large city,
the evidence of her being not only a boors and gabblers. My offer comes, I
person of superior condition, but one assure ycu, madame, from an honest
who had moved in the more fashionable heart, to say the best of it."

walks of life.
s Emphatically beautiful, and not over
twenty years of age, tall, well formed
and elegant, the lady bore traces of sor-
row, which illy accorded with the mag-
nificence and style of her appearance.
She was nervous and over anxious, ap-
parently reluctant to meet the glances
of the rustics,,lost in wonder to divine
the mission of so distinguished a strang-
er in that-quarter of the globe.
"If the lady desires rest," observed
Walter Devins, as he approached the
whispering couple, "and prefers a pri-
vate house to this babel, permit me to
tender her the use of mine."

"In a like spirit I accept it," remark-
ed the lady earnestly.
Walter Devins was ever an unwelcome
guest at the Eagle but on this occasion
Seth, the publican, cursed him most
heartily for hi.i interference whereby
the hostelry,patronized by all the presi-
dents lost the perspective emolument to
be derived from a town lady and her'
carriage suite. Lamentation however
was futile and anger thoroughly useless,
for Walter was one of that class who
despised threats and absolutely rejoiced
in a good old fashioned square fight.
Consequently casting a sarcastic glance
upon tho discomfited landlord, Mr.

r
t
I

20

THE 33OQT, MAKER OF TILE PIE'T'A. 4V N 1TE.

3
f
3
C
a
S
Y
:I
3
_i
F
5
i
t
L?
%i
,a
:-
",3
'

E
"i'
r

.l


I
I,

T~m 6OT4AIEROFTHIFIhAVNE

Devinri marshalled theWa'Y toW rds his
dwelling'iri the woods;losle'iffllowed
by the xstrango lady and her attetdait
the wido&amp;.y
"Lost that Customer, eh, Seth ?" te-
marked Mr. Soloirton Siele, who, noW'
that Walter Devine had departed out of
hearing, indulged in no very limited

abuse of thatidividuul and his general
chra:ter.'
'Hes a low, mean spirited, eair, any
how," quothMt. Siekles exultantly.'
"That's so;"boineidod Mr. Seth Hicks,'
as he-was about retiring fromthe par-
16r, "I igeg with'you, sir, and will take
a drink with you on the ettength of it."

TREi BcOT'AIER ,OF THE FIFTH AV Uv  .

CHAPTER II.

F
1t

11

t

TI1IE TRAVELING COBBLER.

"Bomd, both- ways,":quoth :olornon;
"I dO'understandyou."
"Wiser heads than, yours have been,
puzzled to make out my abode," coollyt
remarked the -strolling bootmender, as,
he deposited his baskets containing' his
working implements on the piazza,t"for
gentlemen of my peculiar turn of thind
wears outalmost as many shoes as they
can coaiveniently repair. -A travelling
cobbler is a man of a particular breed,
and, like yno one else.  ie's. got no
country, no house, no home. He break-
fasts in a village, that is when he break-
fasts; he dines in a town, that 'is when
he dines, and ,leeps in a city, that is
when he sleeps."
"Ho's the , andering lew, is he 7" in-
quired the hoyden Mary Jane.
"With a basket too much and a dol-
lar bill too little," responded the cob-
bIer, casting a professional eye upep
the lady's boots.,
"Poor fellow," said Mary ,iane, "ho
can't be l appy without a single dollar."
"Yes I canbut not very," replied the
peripatetic; philosopher gaily, some-
time I have a dollar, and then again I
haven't, but betwixt you and I, it al-
ways turns out the same thing in the.
end."
"fio v's that n learned traveller"
remarked the' laly.
"Whel Ihave 'a dollar, I spend-it in
treat ibg 'my industry," rejoined the
cobbler,"an'd when I haven't any I work
so as to have it -to treat my, , industry
with. Some Ipeople say that drink
makes a man idle,-but if it wasut for
drink Pa sure aI'd never work, that is
the short and'long of the matter."
"Bravo!"- shouted the crowd, charmed
with the argumelht; "pray, my jolly fel-
low, what may be your name ?"
"Christopher Last," returned the
bootmaker good 'humoredly, "the lasts
of the lasts, and ever too late in being
the last."'
"And never last at a drink," suggest,
ed Solomon Sickle.

"All right, girls, Black 'Dicks' come !
Let's have a dance if you say so."
In this wise shouted 'Mr. Solomon
Si!kle, somewhat elated by the drink
he had swallowed, and still more so by
the fact that Walter Devins had with-
drawn from their society.
"No time now, Sol," returned Mr.
Turbot, the director of the revels, who
assumed management of affairs, "call
the girls, while I go and see after the
vehicles. Hold on to the dark, Sol, we
can't go wit hot music."
Mr. Sickle performed his allotted task
with comnnendable alacrity, and within
afew moments tl)e guests of the Eagle'
were assenlbled upon Ihe broad piazza
running in front of that public building.
"Boots to mend ! Half soles, heel taps,
footed, mended and stitched !" '
"What's that " " anxiously inquired
the entire crowd, as upon their ears
broke these words, delivered with a
species -f jerking emI)hasis.
"It's a travelling cobbler," remarked
I Solomon, with a knowing leer; "where
in the name did v ou come from my fine
fellow ?"
'Iome !" curtly responded the peri-
patetic mennder of decayed boots.
"All right,'' continued  Solomon,
"where are you going to, my boy ?"
"Ihome t" 'is sharply and decisively
answered the cobbler.

_ii        t
fy
,           s

i
-

,i

r
,

i
i
_       _                                    F
a                                      i
i    f
.   . .
i

0 -


24

THE BOOT MAKER OF THE FIFTH AVENUE,

"Sometimes I don't drink though," as the method of his dress. Had he
remarked the philosophic Mr..Last,; "for been habited in other clothing, none
at times I enter upon a practice of econo- would have suspected his humble call-
my. - You must know that I, like many ing, so light and gay was his demeanor,
others, are troubled with an ambition." so frank and earnest his conversation,
"Not to be a congressman," remark- in language beyond his social position.
ed Mary Jane with a laugh.   -        "Yes, my fine lady," resumed the
"Oh, no, I don't drink enough for traveller, as he wiped the dust trom off
that," replied the cobbler; -"but when his boots, "I am a droll fellow, whose,
my father died, he left me a. lot of only weakness is in the pool et. Every
ground in. New Yok city. It's away time I start out in search of work I
up town and when I get tich enough nake a solemn oath never to return
I'm going to build me a (1shap on that without a hundred dollars in solid cash
very ground-that's my ambition, sery --that would lay the foundation of my
modest, you see."                  I slop. I have dot up as high as fifty,
"To build a shop, is no very great but then unfortunately some big dit
thing," quoth Solo mon derisively .  lies directly in my way, and if the li-
"Did I say shop ?" resumed the cob- quor is good, goody to ready cash. It
bler, "if I did it don't convey my idea ain't m y own fault altogether, but that
of a shop. It is a palace I mean, with of the settlers of this blessed country
green blinds and mahogany sashes, all who have put large cities just in the
trimmed round with garlands of shoes." line ct m1y fortune."
"A beauty of bootmaker's dream," re-  ""Ilow long since you left a large city '"
joined Mary Jane.                   inquired Solomon.
"I've carried that shop in my head,"  "Quitted Philadelphia 'day before
cont irued Mr. Last, in no way deter- yesterday, and flat broke."
mined to lose sight of the subject,   "You must be terribly dry," remark-
--ever since I'was out of my time, and ed Mr. Sickle, with alaugh.
I'm hound to have it built upon the real "i'll smile with you, my friend," re-
soil somehow"                       torted the peripatetic artist. I started
"When were you out of your time, with a sublime thirst, and the dust of
my fine fellow ?" interposed Solomon, the. road has improved it. I could,
somewhat nettled at the interest taken empty a canal, provided it flowed with
by the girls in the cobbler's discourse. whiskey."
"About the time I was burn," answer-  "We N, you shall have a good horn at
ed the bootmaker, "for as long as I can our expense," rejoined Mr. Sickle.
remeni br, I've been on my travels with  "Glad to hear it," quoth the cobbler,
my basket, my tools, my wax ends and "for it couldn't be at in-e, considering
my leat her. In fact I must almost say that I have just dusted my boots in a
;hat the first wordls I uttered was in in - large city."
distinct cry of any boots to mend !"  "And now for the wedding, lads and
'-You're a droll fellow anyhow." re- lasses," exclaimed the master of cere-
marked Mary Jane with a smile.      monies as a couple of, large sized wag-
In truth, the wandering artisan, who ons drove up to the inn door; "'it's about
appeared a man about twenty-five time to start off, and sharp at that."
years of age, with intelligent counten-  "My good fellow, we're sorry to part
anc(, regular features and full black with you," said the hoyden Mary Jane
eyes, was. an eccentric character, as to the peripatt tic philosopher; "there
well from the singularity of his remarks is a scat for you in our wagon, a plate

T1E -OOT MAKER OF
at the dinner, and then we'll danee by
the bright moonlight--think of that my
philosophic vajgrant."
"A Thousand thanks, mf hospitable
charmer," replied the artisan, "I will
devour the dinner in imagination ana
tip it off with a dance of the same ma-
terial. But as mine host's Whiskey is
of a good quality, I'll drink a stirrup
cup in the real liquid."
"Try and come this way again,"
(ulth the hoyden Mary Jantas leading
upon the arn of her rustic-admirer,
she leapt lightly and cheerfully into the,,
huge travelling, van now -ready to d-
part.
"I'l try it, my flower of the wilder-
ness." returned the cobbler waving his
hand with an affectation of polite gal-
lantry.
"Goodby old top, see you again!"
shouted Solomon Sickle, as he set about
arranging the order of the departure,
much to the annoyance of the g:oows-
man who vainly protested against this
usurpation of privilege. "Now, then,"
continued the farmer, "music in front,
girls in the middle, married men to the
rear."
Having deposited Black Dick and his
superanuated violin, which had fur--
nished dancing music tQ the communi-
ty of Ileauview during a monopoly of
fifty years, .safely upon the box seat,
Mr. Sickle assumed the reins with the
air of a master whip. With an encoura-
ging shout he started the well condition-
ed team, and touched the off horse with
a gentle flourish of the lash.
'Goodby, cobbler!" shouted the ani-
mated contents of the .ecluie in exuber-
ance of glee, to which unanimous fare-
well the strolling mechanic simply re-
sponded by uttering his ianuiliar cry of
"Boots to wend ! halt soles, heel taps,
footed and stitched !"
"That's the way of klif," soliloquised
Mr. Christopher Last, as he resumed his

'THE FIFTH AVENUE.              25
basket and made prepa atiois to pro-
gress upon his ,journey. It must be
confessed that the artisan resumed his
tramp with more than ordinary reluct-
ance, for the beautiful eyes and the fra-
ternal words of MaryJane had made an
impression on the traveller, which ,at-
tached him to the scene of their in-
promptu meeting, as an oasis in the
desert of his vagrant life.
Scarcely ad the wedding train die-
appeared from the sight of the cobbler,
watching its descent down the dusty
hillside, than a strange gentleman,
mounted upon a thorough bred steed,
dashed to the-entrance door of the Ea-
gle, near which the travelling bootma-
ker lingered in seeming meditation on
the mutability of mundane affairs.
"Is this Ieauview ?" inquired the
equestrian, the smoking sides of whose
steed showed that he had ridden both
long and fast.
"I think so," responded Christopher
Last, with a familiar nod.
"Have you seen a lady pass this way ?"
continued the horseman.
"A lady," replied the cobbler musing-
ly, "you had better believe I have.
There is two dozen of them just gone
up the road."
"They're country folks," interposed
the traveller rather testily.
They're ladies, nevertheless," re-
torted Mr. Last gravely.
Undoubtedly," resumed the eques-
trian, "but the one I speak of is a lady
from the city-with an equipage and
attendants I"
"Then 1 havexft seen her," and the
cobbler shook his head moodily; "be-
side I don't belong to this part of the
country, as I know of."
The equestrian glanced around ner-
vously, for it was evident that the ob-
ject of his mission had been defeated,
and he wAs about departing, reluctant-
ly it is true, upon a further prosecu-

R-7

_-I

k
7
S


T2R30A   T   AKER OF THE FIFTH AVENUE,
io:       d       , h          r   from the hostelry and threw  himself
form  of. Seth 1    prud      ite  mpatiently intethe saddle,
tIt's a funnytworld, this," muttee4
portancoanggeg    en               the travelling operative, sihe noticed
"Wpanto a w omneM"Vquoth         teedisa:p earaice of the horseman in
"anr  w  omial~ lerot qth'e e  jW d  jrectioi, of the'"-denser woods, cir-
landlord with aWOmil Jert ot the eye, c jt  toti li _ le;.h  mr
"maybe I can toll something about Lt o e7eihoit the fune it'   It' a
w ho knowrs.e'?                                      r hefnhe it grows. It's a
giat world taking everything into con,
The   equesthan,   ; rcognizing  the sideration." And then fixing his bask-
worthy host's anxiety secure patron- et firmly to his back, Ithe peripatetic
g' to his hmtse, quietly disno Cited philosopher followed in the wake of the
anc entered th inn gating while rapidly riding-hot-seman, but a le.
stable boy baited 4h'horse,  rhose started upon' his resumed travel, -he
wasaivo A rsn andlehe proportions'were ejaculated, .through force ,f habit;
(ldy comnnz  ted u' polh by=Mt: Chrst yi "Boots to einl, half soled, eel tAp-
pher Last}:until the rider-re-emer  pod, fitted and stitched."p

4 .

THRE OO  tA  ELOFT E IFH VU1

=HAPTER III.
"This  must be thb spot, although  A r
strange' place for meeting wi  avwo-
man ; besides, .there was;w, vonuderful
tinge of melancholy in .tbe few, be
words, she left iat the-inn; henceI fear
some accident has occurrede."
The speaker wasgone other.thanu th
equestrian, whoe had arriedfor a mo-
ment ,at the Eagle  Atv al', hanIsoman
man, upon the verge of egiiry mgrnhood;
every action, every m velnent ,d9qoted
a personage of ednuati9n and.culture, a
presumption corroborated. by the style
of 'his habiligents andthe manppr, of
their wear. ,,.        .  .
The gentloznanw s got l1g i4,atetn
dance at the tristing place before ethe
sound of female vpieg upon his ear.
They were, thospof ejp lady  ithe c-
rage, and ;thowi49gVe:'on, who ac-
companiedl her.                 .
"Be, not,,afsld, l sp IAsprietta," said
the widow, reassuringly ; "Wafte
Devins has gpne to;4 he festival att the
willow grove-" .
But before. she. coul4 terminate her
sentence, the. lady, n ith the keen sight
of an expectant, lover,.had caught a
glance of the perspp of the equegrian,
nervously pacing the gr en swa 11
the groodside.        ,:-
"hubert, love!" ejaculated the lady,
throwing herself in his arms,

27

,

"I have obeyed your symnpuions, Hen-
riettaJ' remarked{the young ,man, after
the first raptorof- a meeting had, ia
measure subsided, "but why appoint ap
interviews in this lonely spot $'.
""Simply,wy dearestliubert," replied
the lady, as tke tears gushed .from her
ey' s, and bedewed the hand of the gen-
tleman upon .whose. bosom she leaned
most affectionately, "because ins,;this
wilderness I .ought it would be most
appropriate t bid you, the.idol, of my
breaking heart, a final, an eternal fare
well,
"An eterngl farewell S" enlaimed the
gentleman in surprise.
"Yes,-the hour of our separation hag
arrived,"'continued Henrietta with deep
emotion,-"it is; in vain to combat the
decree of fate.",
"But what has. occurred,. dearest,"
quoth Hubert Vane, as ie pressed hip
lips, to the btyw of his beloved, "what
lhas wrought this ruin ?"
"ly Ether has sent for we, and thy'
very day Ietart for New York, having
been expelled yes, Hubert, expelled
from the house of my aunt, who has
discovered that whie I input dreaded,"
"Pray, Ileprietta, what has, she dis-
covered 1." s.ai-the~ongtan warmly,
tReveal the terrible mystpry of our age
"Your triumph and .m y shamie'
qupth the sobbing wonen eas she hug
down her lead that the tears might
slow nore readily.
"Cheer up, then Henrietta," said her
loyer endeavogng to hide his agitation.
"Worse than #ll," rejoined the lady,
"you have deceived me, yes most cruel-
ly."
"Deceived you, my dearest love!"
exclaimed Hubert.ix surprise.
"Yes," said the lady, sorrowfully,
"wyhe I first knew you t*o short years
ago, you had.been involved in, a quar-
rel-;n t} duel. You have, beenjcharged
with murder, a price is q your head.

.
._

i         ;C       .   '       11


28

THE BOOT MAKERVOF lTHE ;THAVEN E.

''1f.

our 'littlot Uiuett. Hlewevy before lyta infor ')6 lato. jarbwell,
.my 49gr}  pp T.Relet     T - ti  {9ar  PC  ?j t  y  hedW-
e trutions an to the future of ourehid        n
#;00j 9  ,youd4f1jd  itodepesk;
my daughter one half to'ygo y  etp
hlA 1  A  i  l7T7d h  bQa  iT~r

i
3
' '                           '
i 
f
fi
t
F
1
&amp;                           !
_           L
y£  r
! } -

You have beei betrayed -by a pretend- rested her lover most affectionately,
ed friend,-and the officer of justieelare "hence I have taken precautions to af-
in buisuit, and now I bid youa long ford you that last, that tenderest joy."
farewell."  .             -         And raising her voice she summoned to
"Henrietta, Heniitta," Inurmured her ide the widow Vernon,who carried
the young mane "what is eristerree in her arms the infant daughter of the
without you-.what the4uture without unfortunate couple.
your presence ?"       "     . ."     "My child, my child," exclaimed the
"Be a man, Hubert," tjuoth the-lady father enthusiastically.
exhibiting more ,resolution than her  But Mrs. Vernon came not alone with
companion, -"I neither buke you or her Precious but den.
the adverse cireomstandee'ofour lov.  Scarcely had she emerged from the
Think only of Sour safety. A carriage cottage gn her errand than her steps
awaits you on the outskirts of the wod, were dogged by Waiter Devins, who
a faithful domestic will take your horse tracked her. through the forest, and
to your former dome'and by the dawn watched amid the underwood every
of the sun on the day after to-morrow movement, not only of the widow but
you will fid yourself on the waters of of the parents of the child. With a sub-
the broad Atlantic; Hubert, save your dued exclamation of joy he beheld the
life, mine depends upon it."       infant recognized by, the parents for
"Never, never, can 7#part with you, there was to his mind both money and
Henrietta/ said the young ,man :semi- advantage in mastering -a secret pre-
frantically. "NorI will not leave you, served with super-ordinary care.
no, from your arms they must wrench  "Can you now depart in peace 1" in-.
me to lead me even to the scaffold."  quired'-Henrietta, as ohe presented the
'Listen, Hubert;" resumed the -lady, little daughter for the repeated em-
determinately. "Rememberyou are no braees'of the father.
longer a lover; ydn are a  ther. In-the  "I am more coteat," replied Hubert
name of the helpless creature whose fu- Vane, "but the thought distractsne as
ture depends upon you-in the name of to who is to bring up our of'spring un-
that sweet pledge ofourstolen love. I1 til the hour when I can either return or
command you to depart. Forget thy transport the dear one to soie foreign
mistress, forget the unhappy Henrietta, land."
but remember Our child!"            "Fear not on that head," responded
"Why, Henriretta," quoth the lover, the'lady, designating the widOow with
mournfully, "do you speak to me in her finger, "our darling will be entrust-
terms, which agonize my half broken ed to Mary Vernon, my foster sister, to
heart 7"                           whose care she has been committed
"I am a mother, Hubert," responded from her birth."
the tady firmly, "and' he sole means of  "Yes, Miss Ilenrietta," said the wid--
expiating the guilt of our illicit amour ow, almost witA tears in her eyes, "Iam
is to dedicate ourselves to the little devoted to your "iterests, and yOur
creature-fruit of our willing crime."  babe will never want a mother while
"Heavens !" exclaimed the young memory remains of your kindness to
:nan, clasping his companion to his my poor, dear, husband, iho lays now
easts, "to part with all I love without beneath the sod--"=
'yen a kiss for the little ohe-"     "I am 'well aware or your attachmen
"No, Hubert, that pain would be in- to Henrietta," interposed Hubert Vane,
operable," and the voung mother Ca-' 'A  T  h       i'.. f   .....
f        f   h LW f54 U  JUW~JiL)V

D

wealth   . 1 t wouiu naveWU eenU mpu
dent to have entrusted my affairs with
a person in this vicinity I have commit-
ted them to the trust of Bernard, the
New York banker, whose probity is
well known. With him I have deposi-
ted my daughter's fortune with strict
directions that when she attains her
eighteenth year, he shall, in the event
of my not returning, make known to
her the existence of a sum of Money,
which in his hands should accumulate
into a princely dowry."
As the parent, spoke, he placed in the I
hands of the widow a packet of impor-
tant documents, charging her to take
the greatest care of the papers as sub-
stantiations of his assertions.
"You have no need, Mr. Vane," quoth
the widow, as she placed the packet
next to her bosom, "to distrust my lack
of caution. Rest assured that as the fu-
ture of your child is concerned these
papers will be guarded with a most
jealous eye."
"Alas !" quoth the grief-stricken mo-
ther, "I have nothing to bestow upon
the little one-nothing, save my honor,
and that I have sacrificed for her at the
very hour of her birth."
"Henrietta, weep not," interposed
Hubert Vane, as he viewed most sor-
rowfully the spectacle of her desolation,
"Heaven be my judge that I am worthy
of thy love, dearest of women."
Mr. Vane would have spoken longer
but the abrupt appearance of an aged
domestic announced that the hour of
the fugitive's departure was at hand.
"Already," sobbed the lady, "and on-

"Farewell, all that I love," adly
murmured Hubert Vane, almost over-
come with his emotions, "may prosperi-
ty and happiness attend your future ;
you have at least one consolation, you
will breathe the same air as our blessed
babe."
"And yet you will be far away from
me," said the wretched mother, kneel-
ing at his feet, as she held the infant in
her arms. "Farewell, Hubert, farewell
pretty angel of love ! How beautiful
its smiling face ! Why has heaven sent
me this little cherub, upon whom a
heart-torn mother can alone bestow the
caresses of maternal affection in the
shades of privacy. Alia! it is a punish-
ment for our crime."
"Henrietta," murmured the father
cheeringly, "be resigned to fate. Place
confidence in the future, in the da-a
of hope."
"1 am a poor frail woman," mourn'
fully and sorrowfully rejoined the af-
flicted lady, "my cup of anguish is al-
most filled to the brim. Oh, Mary, take
precious care of our sweet one. Speak
to her of her father and her mother,
and how they parted with her."
Mary Vernon simply intimated that
the time for Hubert's leaving was fully
at hand, and no moments were to be
lost for his escape.
"True, true," responded the unhappy
lady, "fare tho well; oh, Hubert-think
of me sometimes-of my child forever."
With a long, final kiss, Hubert Vane

n ,Aa veuno earsfort Ll warOF

,Y
t
Y
i
i'':.j{
" 3N
t i
;r
Fr
a
h
a

"
1
E


0            THE -BOOT MAK     B OF Tom  FIFTElAVENUE.
tore hlw elf from the 14o1,of his heart ,  "Mary Vernon," sa h  o )er jth
who nour tful4ywatched his departing  aiyeu
ftgarq  Then turning to the widow
she pceheilttio infant in1o the arma eiuust b  qnn m    t     f   to
of iti fdtu're ndhtor, fti        -cad of ,e' ev
upon ita shower ofOtenderkisse  -
-   '

4  f   4S

CHAPT ER IV,
URDfIER IOST FOUL.
The widow Vernon was -lost in re-
fection -at witnessing the scene of her
foster sistes' afifetion. ' The coni-
dante of the young lady's unfortunate
amour, it 1as natural that 'she' should
entertain fe'ings of tire deepest regard
for the Child of her ber  i trasa;k So sheI
wrapped=theloittle 'une ea'efullyin her
shawl ' nitintr-rnellyvowed to 'replace
the love, which a mother should bear
an deptz r, whose "dexstence 'would
have ctie' Il blhui hof shade to nia-
tie upom the b* of those; pradre'-
tt es,  tWho'were willing tdi' barter a
daughter for gold.
etraeineg4Ih n' footstepsin 'the direc-
tion ofier7tumble cottage, the widow
had snot.rsed a great distance be-
e he cncointered the' unwelcome
form of Witer iivins, who, by ashort-
er cut th rugh the forest; had contrived
to anticipate  e passe by the main
route leami ig to the secluded, village of
Beanview.
"Which way aieyou going, Mary ?".
inquired 4aiter, grt1r.,
IarVernon sto ige short. ang be-
stowed pou the question a   glge
which'cleay evidenaed, the perturba
tion of her nin  ,
Walter Devins repeated ths question
,r a aore ecisive one of voice.
"What business. brings yox- here V
inquired the   ovwilow.  .4
" iusies ? .,ngne, only. curiosity,'
respo ded Walter iai: careless manner
I ramble to sdi,     on 'rtor 'ra

n

rbat brings' you'te this part1 of the
woodsany appointment V'
"'Go your - o'wx way," "retorted the
widow, endeavoring' to'edi169l 'the in-
fant; which she was carrying, '14ud I'll
go mine."   '   '      '
"Along with your Jpad, Mary P" jeer-
ingly qubth the farmer, 'a lie, pointed
out the child ; "it'denota 'very large
child for Its age, Maryg'b6ztlarge enough
to'be visible to the nakeddeye. Arse'yon
going to deposit that on the grave of
your late husband, ehit"
aYou are free to sieer at me as you
'will, Walter Devins'," said the widow.
"I am perfectly aware, Mary," quoth
Fatter, as he uncovered the infant and
looked upon its sleeping face, "that the
'chipi is not yours, and it" is on that ac-
count that I desire some further light."
t me pass on myway," said Mary
as she attemipted to'evade'his'touch.
"No airs, Mary," rejoinsd Walter
plaging his Jiand uponaer laboulder,
'you see. that I an the trogest. Now
listen to, merfor Ineithbr Jave tipo nor
patience to waste isempty words.",
"Then make haste and b done with
it," retorted Mrs. Vernon tartly.
"You.have no idea of ,baving Pe for
a husband, Mary," quoth Walter :pla
cing his arm   around .t hwidogy's
waist, "but it is my ambitmin, as well
as ipy determination to honor you with
rny heart and .band-in a woxl, it is ne-
cessary for the wedding to como of.".
"And is this allthat.you have stop-
ped me to say t" respqwldo :hO widow,
making anothe reit ,to :rid herself
from the obnoxioutpresece.
"Yes," returned Devins with, a tight-
ened embrace, "and I desire the mar-
riage on account of: knowing ;the story
-of this little urchin. Now don't be
surprised when I tell,you that if Is the
progeny of Miss ,leurietta DaEnd
and Mr. Hubert Vane.,,iow rdoes4t
hang '"                   'r an'

L
,
t yY
1
p
f

j

THE BOOT MAKER OF THE FIFTH AVENUE.

I


'02

THE BOOT. MA(I OF 'THE F u' VENUE.

"ScoundreI,'? exclaimed the vidt
with indignation, "youhave been p .'
ing thepart of ,an eavesdropper--of a
contempt i spy."
"I do noh tegret-having done so," re,.
eponded Walter, as they advanced to:.
iaris the village, 4for. the discovery
will make your fortuaerand mine, for I
know, the sequel as well as the ogm.-
1mencement of the reance. I am aware
thit when thegirileaebee her eighteenth
year a' vast estate4omnes to her. It is
exactly that stum of inoneysrhich I have
set - my-head upon. Now, then here
comes thp secret of my affection. If you
consent to marry me, we will share the
fortune between us, but should ytu re=
fuse to be my wife, then it will be minpe,
solely and aoie.  You omprehend;
"Miserable reptile," ejaculated Mr
Vernon, in ill-disgised resentment?
"would you dare counsel 'me to down-
right theft?"
"Never mind' about 'names," resumed
Walter Pevins, as his eyes dashed tire,
in anticipation of his'ill gained; ealthr
"but give me a decisive anrswer-right
away, if you please.
The widow hesitated when Devins
darted upon her a glance of fury, which
however fell unheeded upon the deter-
mined womap.
"I am not afraid of you, Walter'Dev.
ins," said Mary Veunon in a deliberate
tone of voice, "you 'have already had
my answer."
"Will yon consent to' be my wife  "l
asked Walter sternly.
"Never !" reskonded the widow vith
emphasis on -0h106f&amp;r "p
"Never!" r jin~d the farmer witha
signiflkant intonation.
"Never !" repeated the widow coolly
and deliberately.
"Then the fortune is mine," Eaic
'Walter with a hissing acceit; "give mi
4h 'packet, the documents and thi
ehmd."

As the man spoke ho latd violent
hands upon the widow and endeavored
to wrest from her the package of impor-
tant documents, which she had conceal-
ed within the bosom of her dress.
"Help ! help !" shouted Mrs. Vernon
at the top of her lungs.
"Silence !" muttered Devins, with a
threatening growl.
"Help ! help" 'r8i~aaid the widow,
struggling with her assailant.
"Silence,or you died'" saithe ruffhan,
as he endeavored tostifle h peech.
"Help! help !" gurgled forth the half-
.stifled female, with expiringsetrength.
"Then die . you stubborn , brute,"
shouted Walter Devins, at te same
time dealing &amp;violent blow;with, the
hunting-knife, he usually carried with
hitwhich fell with 3n:rderous force
upon the breast of the unfortunate wo-
man.
"Th child, the childI" continued the
assassin,makinga vigorous efrt to at-
tain the. infant, which the widow till
iteW in her a ps with the teuacity'of
despair.
With a painful exertion of strength,
Mary Vernon dragged herself to the
edge of the roadside, despite teregi t-
ancieofthe'inidkrer, who vainl sought
to tear the child from the grasp of the
dyingfemale, whoe life-blood, was, ooz-
ing out fast.
J ust a the assassin was on tle point
of succeeding In his nefarious purpose,
his startled ear caught sounds.offap-
proaching' footsteps. With ;cravenly
trepidation Walter Devihs, qiailig'at
anticipation of detection, deserted the
body of his victim, relinguished the a-
complishment of his crime,and fled 'pre-
cipitately amid the clustering trees of
the forest.    $
"Boots to mend!half soled, heel tap-
ped, boots and shoes !" and in an in-
d stant almost after the escape of the mur-
e derer, the rollicking' person of Mr.
e t hristopher Last appeared upon the
scene of the:tragedy.

THE BOOT MAKER O
It's a funpyQrld apyhow," solilP,
e d the cobbler, "I'd bet my life thlt
ard a  ry of distress in this dih-c-
WdAe   i  re came from  it
Help" ngarpcgeQ   ry yerion,.her
nealm uost extict
A woman !'?ex aed the . travel-;
artisan, as; le tArned; towards the
side edge and behe1d the aleding
u of the widow, from Whosej wound
blood flowed desperately-, help ,!
I" !hocoutincdt growing his y ice
heae tionof the road behind)Amin
f to alarm -sone. persons folo w iag
r him. This done the coI;bler rush-,
o the assist4ncq}of be unforpma .
ale who ,rvived fagatly as the apj
oh of 4 ministering hand. encour-
1 hopeo 'oleviatidg tier woes.
ou lirthe trha liing cdbbler,
mnared Mary VwithiGerAyl g atmeh aL
nan of probity to nhowl I can en-
tan important secret."
es, yes, my poor woman," return-
hristopher eagerly.
'ake then this. child," murmured
dying widow, "and this package-
e care of it and open it when in her
teenth year. The directions are
ten on the outside."
3ut its parents," interposed the
elling artisan with commendable
ence, "give me the names of its
nts ?" '
Ior mother is Miss Henrietta Des-
d," and the dying female signifi-
ly placed her finger upon her
th in token of secresy.
enrietta Desrmond," repeated the
ier as if to make sure of the name.
eep the secret secretly," murmur-
e widow, faint with loss of blood,
ng in her death throes as she noted
euder care with which the travel-
echanic assumed }care of the in-
swear it for the sake of the little

P THlE 4FH1YNf

33'

ng~ggth~hskalg' p4, rejoijeod
t~dth~eaedof ~t}X3lW4 of 14Ar
ernon's murder. Almdts "fndy
1dicl s w~te elptie4 o tir  tz ts
the sy   thie yl   rge     a
the terr be ,nature oftherime   e-
4'Mary' biVfoh killed 1"efatstd
S lindh Siokle 1rileart   ue tioii
pnd you her eadn the Vig bgIIowa
Ontny  way to-rejoin ou, . epliid
t&amp;i cobbler, "I heard theory 6f listrtsa
haid hurried-hither, whreunftmate-
ly Arrive c'too late.':s, ' a.   ntf
"Vho's'chihFj s'that?"malided the.
hoyden Mary dan4as'withfeni1l pre-.
femce, she irhediae'r atentidn  itho
70    'sbl -chargI.tSw  ;: T Fy
,y'I'sada3i1~ter, whop 1 am  e
goinufter.ftr,'Q  ed% e1   eebgagg,
bestowing an awkward caress on the
Mary Jane shook her head in plain
expression of her doubt as to the philo-
sophic story, when an exclamation of
her comrade Amanda, who haebeen in
attendance upon the widow, attracted
her attention as well as that of the rest
ot the assemblage.
"Gire her   air,"  quoth  Amanda.
"Thank heaven she revives-silence!
she speaks. Who was it-who did this
awful deed?"
The murdered wo an, comprehend-
ing the importance of the query, appa-
rently nerved herself to speak in her
loudest strain for the flow of blood and
tho gradual .waste of strength had
weakened her to such a n extent as to
render the tones of voice almost inaudi-
ble.
I"Walter Devins !" murmured the dy-
ing widow, and the words merged into
the death rattle which terminated her
mortal breath.
"Walter Devins !" ejaculated the as-
tounded group.


THE BOOT MAKER OF THE FIFTH AVENUE.

34       THE BOOT MAKER OF THE FIFTH AVENUE.

""P4fr Mary Vernon," mournfully
sigh d, Solou 1Sickle, equally aston-
idehsalamed at the suddenness of
the test4hle.           rl
"It is all over," muttered Mary Jane,
feeling the hand of the deceased.
"Dead !" solemnly responded Amon-
da, as thep tears 4owed from the eyes
of nearall thq spectators, sickening
at the murderous spectacle.
"Yes, my poor woman," soliloquised
Christopher- as the villagers gathered
around the corpse, carefully lifted it,
into a wagon and prepared to start up-
on their homeward journey, "I will
take the be;tof care of your lovely in=-
fant. Mid now my little one, on with
our travelS. Yes, blessed jewel, from
this day forth you will be my child,
that's the agreement, my child " and
the coblT"" l" nined his hands enthusi-

atically at the very idea of being
parent.
"Come along then my darling," re
sumed the stroling, mechanic, as h
deposited the infant with the greatest
of care in his  basket and attached'1
securely to his person, "'from this da
forth, no more whiskey, no mora 'str
rap cups, no more morning hours, n
.more night drains., Henceforth, w
have need of legs for two and lungs fo
half a dozen."
Taking a final look at the body
the unnealed widow, Mr. Christophe
Last-wiped away a tear trickling frost
his eyelids and then bade a sad a:id af
fectionate farewellto thewedding guest
whose mirth was now turned to sorrow
Then, turning his back upon the scen
of woe, the honest artisan started upoi
a new pilgrimage of labor.

CHAPTER V.
THE FIFTH AVENUE 'PAVEMENT.
"Well, Jimn, what idid Montauk close
at? or how goes 'Quaker City I"
With these business-like words, an
exquisitely dressed young man,:studded
with diamonds and jewelry, accosted
another, rather more plainly attired, as
they encountered during a promenade
on the pavement of the Fifth Avenue
towards the close of an autumn day.
"Why, my dear Van," returned the
gentleman ad dressed, in a tone of fami-
liarity corresponding to the manner of
his approach, "to tell you the truth I've
had a streak of luck. I struck oil-every-
where. Greasy Bottom, which I bought
at five, turned up a two hundred gallon
only last Monday and sells to-day at
one hundred and ten, while Bubble
Hole, purchased on time, showed a
five hundred gallon well, and therefore
the stock has run almost out of sight."
"That is luck !" exclaimed Mr. Cor-
nelius Vanderip, one of the fast men
about town, as he gazed admiringly up-
on the person of the successful specula-
tor, who rejoiced in the appellation of
James Short, and had previously eked
out a precarious existence as a street
broker, "that is luck by all that is holy,
wonderful luck! by jingo !"
"Nothing of the kind," quoth the bro-
ker in an off hand manner, "on the con-
trary it's, genius, Van, pure genuine fi-
nancial talent."
"Then you have made a pile, Jim,"
inquired Mr. Vanderip, ineffectually &amp;n-
eavoriung to ascertaiu %he sum total

of profits on Greasy Bottom alon ,
employing his digitals as multiplior$,
"haven't you?"
"I'm frank enough to.say that I am
easy in my boots," rejoined the broker,
with an air of triumph ashe rounded
off his sentence with rhetorical flourish-
es, "quite a plum, I tell you, and accep-
table at that."
"Possibly ten thousandor-so, all in
a day or two, myo."
"Ten thousand ." rejoined the broker
with a smile of contempt at the under
estimate of his adventure, "make it a
hundred thousand and you mny touch
something like the bottom of the "mark,
Van."
"One hundred thousand inside of two
days!" ejaculated' Vanderip, institu-
ting a mental comparison between their
respective conditions, "that is wonder-
ful ! But here comes Marcy, I wonder
;how much he struck inihis venture up-
on petroleum stocks ?"
"You had better * ask him," observed
the broker with a curl upon his lip.
"D-n petroleum !" exclaimed the
new comer with ill disguised vexation,
as he wiped the perspiration from his
forehead, "I'm broke ,flat all through
that infernal scoundrel Stiggins and his
bubble."
"Broke Marcy," quoth Vanderip with
a look of incredulity.
"Everything gone," replied Marcy,
with a sigh, "the balloon went up. Stig-
g ins has sloped, and I'm played out for
sure."
"Didn't understand the thing," in-
terposed the broker, jocosely, "there is
never a rose without a thorn. You are
like the certain good man who journey-
ed, &amp;c., You comprehend, Marcy I"
The broker ctgekled amazingly and
the enthusiastic Vanderip instantly ap-
preciated the difference between an im-
promptu millionaire and one who had
beggared him in a venture for gain.
"Always blanks," resumed g broker


r
Z 5
' /

THE BOOT MAKER OF
11.h an expression of mock 'sympathy,
"where there are prizes, we can't be all
rich."
"It can't,be helped, I suppose," quoth
the bankrupt after a moment's pause,
"but then what is a fellow to do with-
out credit and all New York has been
made aware that I have been turned
over."
"Won't old Timpson assist you ? in-
quired the broker sarcastically. "By
the way here comes your lady love, the
gentle Arabella."
True enough; as the group of [gentle-
men were conversing, they were con-
fronted by a couple of belles, who pro-
menaded the pavement of the avenue,
richly dressed and loaded down with
laces, furs and jewelry. With, a toss o t
the head Arabella Timpson, the daugh-
ter and heiress of Gregory Timpson, re-
tired liquor dealer, formerly of Cherry;
street, but now of the Avenue, presi-
dent of three oil companies and a na-
tional bank, strutted past the unfortn-
unto Marcy, without scarcely deigning
to notice his existence.

Marcy felt annoyed at this sudden rather unfortunate friend Marcy."
change in the demeanor of one, to     "Luck has kno ked him out of our
whom he had been paying attentions path," responded -the requisite; " be-
for over a year past, and whom the gos- side, he has been buzzing. around the
sips of the bon ton had as igned to him  handsome prima donna of the opera."
as his future spouse. Annoying as was  "Who has set her affections on the
tis obliviousness as to his person the young doctor," said the broker, inter-.
bankrupt was more sorely vexed at larding his observations with a series of;
perceiving the eyes of his ancient cautionary expressions; "but there is
flaue fixed upon those of the successful no telkng certainly anything about wo--
broLker.                            men-they are curious articles to specu-
"Tilt's de =r Mr. Short, whispered late in, much worse than Erie, equal to
Arauel:-. o her female collmptanion, but Mariposa."
loud enough to be overheard by the    "By the way, here comes the opera
discarded suitor.  And the heiress dame," ejaculated Mr. Vanderip, as
smiled and passed on -vith the stride of there came walking down the avenue a-
a tragedy queen.                   large, well formed lady, of foreign birth
"Not much trust in Timpson," re- and commanding person, attended by a_
marked the broker sarcastically, "it's train of admiring masculines.
very strange how a little money changes To say that Madame Flora was hand.
woien's affections."                some, would- be untrue--still, the exo

0

TIE. FIFTH AVENUE.
Marcy sighed, for he now appreciated
the irksonwness of his position, particu-
larly as imiany of his former friends per-
ceiving the queenly Arabella's indiffer-
ence exhibited strong symptoms of imi-
tating her example, for in the fashion-
able world manners are contagious.,
"By, by, Marcy," resumed the broker,
evidently desirous of ridding himself of
a poverty-strickenf dependent, "imeet
you in the Gold Exchange., Better luck
in that line of venture, old fellow."
Marcy:grated his teeth at this-cart
allusion to his altered position; the
broker smiled slyly and significantly,
but Mr. Vanderip in the exuberance of
his spirits, laughed with a broad grin. .
"By the way, Van," quoth the bro-
ker,.conlidentially, "it is currently re-
ported that you are enamored of our
baotmaker's daughter.".
"Why, yes," responded the young
beau, with an air of indifference, "I
once ertertained some thoughts in re-
spect to the young woman, that's all.'"
"You have a rival, or rather a host
of them," returned Mr. Short; "and
most of all there is to be dreaded, our

T=-Ig ~o'' MA R   b ~' THE -SI  ThN - _  . 37
S F''liE              37
pression of her counteanne, the bril- ebepaused fi nhtieitn  d dast 'TVn
iianey and vivacity of her speech and 1he 'eyes,"then, turning' abruptly a ide,
above all, ,the fire and temper of her sho avoided' his inquisitive -glance by
eyes, exacted a rimpiression of respect; taking refsg' in a store, the sole one on
almost ano itingto comparative ado- the promenade.
ration.                              "Thii'ust be the' girl for whongI am
"Mr. Marcy," quoth the songster, ra- :searching,"soliloquised the stranger, as
diant with smi.les ; "what is the good he followed in the footsteps 6f the fugi-
news with yoe  how comes on our suit tive, until-reaching the store door, he
with the cobbler'sheiress 7"      turned his eyes upward. "It is her in-
The merry laugh of Flora, re-echoed deed,",he continued, as he read the
by her attendant swains, awoke Marc  name insoribed over the store' door-
to the presence of the group of syco- "the mission of;my life is accomplished
phants who ever rotate around a riling -yes i is the place I, seek. Fifteen
luminary.                          years is ea Jong time to hunt atracb
ith ya half-disguied sneer, the bler, but here have uI the very name-
young man retorted-                Christopher Last."
"Have you any tidings o Dr. Mo' The strangerstopped and scrutiized
rand?"                  "  t      the front of theyshop, in which appear-
"Out of sight out of mind .Y 'ur- ,e .n good,'od.charater, the name
inured the broker, who had overheard fastening his attention.
the conclusion of the sentence-""absent  Christopher Last, after diftecn years
lovers ado always at a discount."  of industry and frugality, succeeded in
"People must talk,"~retorted the song- realizing not 'nly' iis ambition, as ho
stress, facetiously ; "and as long as we had quaintly es pressed the aim of his
continue to strike oil, none shall lament peregrinations, in the shape of that
their good fortune." -             identical shop which he had erected
"Easy come, easy goes," interposed upon the land of his inheritance, but
a gentleman forming the group ; "I an adequate revenue for its maintenance
have become a millionaire almost with- in ease and comfort.
iu ten days, and I do not think I am  Immediately upon the murder of the
any the happier than when I was com- unfortunate Mary Vernon, the strolling
paratively poor, for, as I wandered amid bootmaker turned over a new leaf, for,
the plains of Europe, I breathed the having assumed the paternity of the
free air of liberty, untainted by the little wait thrown upon the troubled
breath of ruin and remorse." waters of life without other friend or
"All have not had the advantages .of protector, he conceived it his duty to
the happy Delamoro," remarked Marcy, labor honestly and industriously, ade-
as the group passed on, leaving the last quately to discharge the duty a mnyste-
opeaker to his own meditations, which rious providence had imposed upon
were evidently of no pleasant kind, for him.
he paced the pavement with an uneasy,  A reformed man, sober, laborious and
nervous tread,                     ever contented, Christopher thrived to
Just at that moment a young girl, the full measure of his anticipations-
blooming in her eighteenth year, fresh, indeed, his industry was rewarded be-
lovely and agila, bounded, rather than yond his expectations, for it seemed as
walked, along the avenue, so light and though his profits augmented propor-
elastic was her maiden step.       tionately to his increasing expenses; :or",
Confronting Marcy on the sidewalk, at all events, lie found his conditiou


38       THE, MOOT MAKER OF T E'FIFTR AVENUE.

vastly bettered, although surcharged
with the maintenance and education of
the female child, who had now attained
the mature age of eighteen years.
Happily for Christopher's worldly
estate, the little plot of land, the legacy
of his parent, situated out of town, as
he thought, became the centre of a fash-
ionable thoroughfare, world-tenowed as
the favorite residence of millionaires,
who looked with supreme contempt
upon the plebian shop, sandwiched be.
tween palatial mansions.
Vainly - were threats' and entreaties
exerted to rid the neighborhood of so
unsightly a tenement.
Christopher was too affectionate a son
to despise the inheritance of his father;
and beside,,although the host of parve.
venues, surrounding his humble dwell-
ing, despised the lowly calling by which
they had previously earned their daily
bread, the bootmaker conserved an hon-

orable reverence for the trade at which
he daily toiled.
"Here, then, is the very spot," resum-
ed the stranger,drawing from his pocket
a written memorandum, which he com-
pared with his own observations of the
edifice. "A two story frame dwplling,
green blinds, mahogany sashes, and,
above all, Christopher Last."
Turning his eyes towards the second
story window, the stranger noticed that
there peered through the blinds a pair
of keen black eyes, seemingly examin-
ing his person with more than'common
curiosity.
The inquisitive wayfarer quailed be-
fore the scrutiny of the young girl, and
hastily departed, casting a final, furtive
glance upon the window and consulting
again his written document.
"That is her, indeed,' he muttered,
as he wended his way down the street.
"Genevieve, aged eighteen, said to be
the daughter of Christopher Last."

THE BOOT 1MA1 tR OFTEFIP&amp;TH AVEUE.                      39
"Your daughter has just come in,
boss," re doned Nicholas.
d'"Then send her to me., and be Iv ly
about it.".

CHAPTElR VI.
THE BOOTMAKER AT HIS LAST
"What a crowd of loungers, maje and
em ale loafers, all with coal oil in their
heads; a pretty raft of them. And to
thinkk that heaven showers golden fa-
yors on the heads of such a worthless I
set. It don't make no Odds to me
though-I've got my gold mine in Gene-
vieve *
14 this wise spoke Christopher' Last,
as he entered his store o, -the Fifth ave-
nue, having in his'arms two huge bun-
dles of goods, in the carriage of which
he had played sad havoc among the
richly dressed belles 'and beaux who
thronged 'the fashionable 'promenade
towards the close of the autumn day.
"Hullo, Nicholas Strap," resumed the
bootmal er, ps' he donned his apron,
and took his seat upon a work bench,
convenient to the counter, "'where the
devil is thatthick headed booby Vu
"Here I am, boss !" and'Mr. Nicholas
Strap, an overgrown apprentice, nearly
out of his time, shuffled into the store
from the rear door.
"Where in the name of thunder have
you been?" inquired the bootmaker,
as he fastened his strap beneath his
foot:
"Getting supper for Polly the parrot,"
curtly replied the apprentice.
"All right," responded Christopher,'
as he adjusted a' piece of leather to the
side of a boot he was about to repair-
"where's Genevieve ?"

"Boss is in an uncommon temper,"
quoth Mr. Sharp to. himself, s.he
emerged from the shop; "wiodpr how
he got such an angel as my .awept mise
tress up stairs; I wish I was a boss for
her sake."
"Good day to you, honest Christo-
pher, ever at work, I perceive."
The bootmalker lifted his head to'ne-
tice the new comer entering his shop,
and returned his salutation with afa-
miliar nod.
"Can't do anything better, ,r ,.Ber-
nard," quoth the :artisan, addressing
the wealthy banker as one of his faes,
"and you know it."
"Yes," rejoined the banker, with a
smile; "butrall work and no play -wakes
a sad life of it. Christopher, I want to
speak to yowi for a minute."
'At yourgervice, sir," replied the
bootmaker,:rising mqmentarily from his
toils; "possiblythese double soles were
a trifle too.tight."  ;      ,     .
' Not at .all, Christqpher," remarked
the banker ; "I have a littlilggusiuess
matter to propose to you," and le smil-
ed obsequiously.
"A business matter !" ejaculated. the
artisan, abstracted y.
"Have yon . o eonfidenee in met"
quothB3ernad, abstractedly.
"No-no!"returned Christophe' "but
here cones sxyJitt Geu vIp; I gave
got seen her before to-dp F ;yggigli
excuse me, MenarG. Goot      ,; my
dearest 1" and_ the voice of 44e artisan
stopped short.
}"Good day, father," quoth'the young
beauty, as she rushed towards :,the
worthy mechanic, and, throwing herself
into his arms, would have imprinted a
kiss upon his lips, when he tenderly
stayed her, but not until he had wiped
his mouth with his coat sleeve.


THE BOOT 1.y     -OF

moment;.dearest,''said -the
bootmaker, as he resti ainedher whetr
upoi! the point of emibracinghim, an,.
til I take a good look at my flina;rL
Yla iren't groWn a-aiorsel sineites-
terdy !' ant to, the- astonishment oof.
li dhuhter; thworthy man withdrew'
Worn bder arm s, -n -gazed at-her in rude
S drrtiatien. sIlow pretty she is, Ber,
nard," said the mechanic, after a mo-j
nent's - hesitation4  f'Perehance too
pretty for my -sake," and Christopher
siglied, fand turned .his .head - aside to
1tmidal'a' pushing tear drop.
"ON d' kind-father !" exclaimed the'
young girl, again throwing herself into
-1eafi s,bfl her parent, and tendering'
hui  t kMse, which Christopher, after a
&amp;eri+e'b i-election, avoided in-the vei'y
same manner in whieh he had done
"What'h funny fellow' is that boss-ot
inin'in auteIred Nicholas, who' had
watched his 'every movement ; 'Qhe lets
;one et iOalmost tohis cheeks;and then
he'S'afraid Of being hissed by his own
daugher.  4oi'tPT wish 'shd try one
on me !" and Mr. Strap blushed.
"Well, 'Berhard," said the bbotnaker,
as h1 eyes still lingered upon the bean-
tiful p Ada of the'graceful girl, ; you
have some business to propioie. -Iarai
glad of it for -never have I stood i
greater need of work, Iassure you.- I
thought I wotildbeco e:rich."
"Rich!-"' ejaculated, Bernard, fully
convinced -that 1 6t  ootmaker had
specuIa tid 'successfnlfl -,on'his own re-
epoislbility.  -  
N 4  for my 4 u sake," - continued
Christd19Her affeiaoately, "butfor that
of my darling Genevieve.',See, you are
always"present to my:mind, and here is
the reasdtirwhylI askeddfyou hadgrown
silete yesterday-"-  -        ,
As the bootm'akor sspoke, he pointed
to one of the' two bundles which he
had personal y carried into, the store,
while the-grateful-beahty thanked, with

U4A

expressive eyes, her kind, reflective p,
rent.
"Heretofore you have ever made you
own clothes," resumed Christopher Las
as he undid the bundle and exposed
inspection a very handsome dress, wit'
its corresponding clothing; "but thi
time, Genevieve, .I desired that yo
should have a gown upon which yo
have not wearied your sight in ad
vance."                          ,
"What a beauty !" exeaimed the gir
enthusiastically, as she flung herse
upon the donor's neck ;°."I must ki
father, for this."
' have a care !" quoth ihe artisan
with the greatest difficltyreeasin
himself from tire anaiden's grasp; "yo
"Fit for a queen, an just ipy colors!'
responded Genevieve aily.
"I'm glad to hear it;' rejoined Chzis-
topher, with; thcAir of one relieve
from sone oppressive ;care, "tor I wa
devilishly afraid.tha 1Jmatlo some nis
take, as I am not used to these cali
jobs."
The artisan then turned; 4 opene
thg other package, while Mr4 Bernar
exanlined the style And quality of the
garment which Christopher had pro.
cured for his charge.
"He must be ricb," mutteed Bernard
to himself, "to be able toafford 9ii
kind of stuff for his daughter's use.",
"Now, Mr. iernard,, quoth the me-
chanic gaily, "jnst one minute to ex-
plain to Nicholas the condition of the
work which is to be called for.. Rehold
this lovely patch elegantly dissembled,
,which is placed onj the boots of: Mr.
Fairword's, a dandy, ;who;passes foi
rich and yet patetres his boots; but-that
is to correrspond with -hismrkept-
e' Why, Christopher," interposed the
banker, "youncarry envyour trade upon
purely philosophical principles."
"I !" responded thd artisan; "I only

make   ;    ofei ob  vations, that's all,
Without taking int coznsideration th e
petty mieries entrusted .to ;us, it,,is
worth os awhile to fathom the deeper
mysteries the world would hide freom
us. I can tell tl ohapeter of people
from the Mnnner in which they tread.
For in trce, here is ayir of boots
wittiout'an bottom i, the ehanl . PIl
wager tha  they belong to the dainty
eirk who, attends upon the millinery
store around the corner. The fellow is
false hearted, and will rob his mistress
before Christmas.'
The booktmaker looked at the bottom
of the boots, and tossedthem aside with
a Contemptuous smile,   ii IIis =ap-
prentice picked' up another pair and
presented then for comment.
"Those, Nicholas," resumed Christo-
pher, with a laugh, "belongs to a man
anxious to raise in the world, a vain
egotist. See, he wants double soles and
two very high heels. Do yon hear,
Nicholas ; the would-be crane wants
very high heels."
"I'll fix hi  high enough up," re-
sp'onded Mr. Strap, with an emphatic
gesture ; "and if he does come down it
will be with a run."
"But here is a shoe for a study," con-
tinued Mr. Last with augmented enthu-
siasm; "the sole worn squarely, trod
upon all over, not a turn to the right or
left. That belongs to al straight for-
ward man, one who walks upright in the
eyes of the world. If I am not mis-
taken it belongs to Dr. Stephen Mo-
rand."
"Yes, ho is an honest mau indeed,"
whispered Genevieve, somewhat ex-
citedly, as a blush passed over herwhite
forehead.
"And who is this.Dr. Morand ?" in-
quired the banker.
"Dr. Stephen Morand," responded
Christopher, " is a young physician,
with a noble heart, to whom I owe an
eternal debt of gratitude ever since he
saved the life of this dear angel of our

i(T1E IOQT MAKER OFTHE F'IFH VNJE.  41

41

household. - Yo Jvabiimlikewise, do
you inotr-rh;hij -wo= a good provi-
dence sent to yorwi4," -.-
"Love!" said the young beauty, "is
a very strong word, father.','
. "Yet ought we not.tolve those," re-
joined the bootmaker, "who snatched
us from thehaws of death ? There ain't
so niany worthy of oin affection as to
exhaust the stock on iand.
 "Assurey not," said  e banker;
"bubaykerg-;
"but young ladies have peculiar whims
as to the true state of nobility and of
humanity.
Gnevieve sighed, fob the bootmaker
touched upon tender ground; and had
the girl confeased ,the truth, she would
have frankly admitted that she loved
the young physician more deeply than
her parent, unversed in the ethics of
love, would have suspected.
"Possibly Genevieve may think the
less of him," said the bootmaker, anx-
ious to extenuate her presumed omission
in courtesy, for it was now three years
since he attended upon her, and nearly
all that time he had been absent abroad.
Nevertheless, as he returned some two
months ago, she should have encoun-
tered him some time."
" Yes, yes," interposed the young
lady, apparently anxious to divert the
conversation to somre other and more
congenial theme, "I have seen him
through the blinds when he stops in to
pass an hour with you."
"The poor fellow is evidently ufi cr -
ing," continued Christopher, wholly en-
grossed with the physiciaa's good quaii-
ties, "he looks sad and melancholy ; I
fear his povert' troubles him - I ana
sure of it."
The cobbler smiled momentarily in
internal enjoynient, for he had thought
of a plan of relieving the physician's
embarrassment, by inventing some ima-
ginary patients, whose fees were real;
and to that end had dispatched that
very day no less than three letters pur-


42       THE BOOT MAKER OF THE FIFT, AVE TItE.

porting to  emanate from fictitious per-
sonages, -all concocted by- himself,' and
promising liberal gifts.
"With his talents, poverty will not
continue long," observed Genevieve ;
"and when we love, papa, riches do not
claim exclusive attention."
"Adorable girl," enthusiastically ex-
claimed Christopher, '"the beauties of
your person are 'only excelled by the
nobility of your mind. Hold, Gene-
vieve-the honesty of thy speech de-
serves a downright kiss."
To the astonishment of Nicholas the
apprentice, who had witnessed the
avoidance of an embrace for the years
of his service, he beheld his master pass

his sleeve across his mouth and advance
towards the willing, maiden, to bestow
upon her a salute. But suddenly he
checked himself, and turning around to
the banker, he said to him-
"We have business in private."
Nicholas clapped his hands in amaze-
ment, while Genevieve, although accus-
tomed to her father's humor, retired in
comparative disappointment to her
chamber, where she seated herself by
the window, and cast many furtive
glances into the street in the hope, of
catching a glance at the young physi-
cian among the throng of wayfarers
passing along New York's most fashion-
able and aristocratic promenade.

V

CHAPTER VII
HONESTY THE BEST POLICY.
"Now, then, Mr. Bernard, we are
alone."
In this wise spoke Christopher Last,
as he threw aside his strap and apron,
after the withdrawal of his apprentice,
before whom the bootmaker maintained
the endless appearance of work.
"Now, Christopher," said the banker,
throwinghimself into a phair and cross-
ing his legs in a statesmanlike 'manner,
"I have come to ask if you will dispose
of your property hereabout."
"Who ;wants to buy my shop?" in-
quired the bootmaker curtly.
"Some speculators desire to establish
an exchange on these premises," re-
marked Bernard; "and upon my re-
commendation they will offer yQu a
very handsome price, better than you
suppose."
"Well," quoththe bootmaker, reflec-
tively, "and this done, whereabouts am
I to look for a workshop, convenient to
my customers ?"
"You will have np longer cause to
work," remarked the' banker, "for you
will be sufficiently rich, although not
extravagantly so.",
"And, Bernard, is it to amuse me with
these golden dreamsthat you take the
pains of remaining in my humble resi-
dence "
"Have you no desire to possess
money i" inquired the banker.

"In the first place,' Bernard," replied
the artisan, tranquilly, "I have never
had sufficient acquaintance with the
article to become deeply enamored of
it, at least to the jeopardy of my peace
of mind."
"But, honest Christopher," retorted
the banker energetically, " you shall
become acquainted with the glories of
gold coin; yog will throw the lapstone
and wax end into the street, and flouiish
'as one of the leaders of ton. With the
proceeds of this sale invested in oil
stock, you will become rich, very rich.
It will be but the work of a day or two.
.I will sell your property and invest it
in three or four well regulated compa-
nies, and your fortune is'made."
"Ti-tol-derol-de-ro!". whistled the
honest shoemaker; "you make me laugh
with all your'speculations. If you only
knew how happy I have been, how
hap y I am within these four walls, you
won d never attempt tt make me quit
this good old shop. All the speculators
in the world can never change.-my cha-
racter ; and let each follow our own
trade--they like money and Ilike work,
and with me there is nothing like
leather."
"But, Christopher, hear me to the
end," urged the banker.
"There is no use talking, Ber-nard,"
responded the artisan; "Words cannot
alter my determination. Suppose I
should have a fortune, what would I
do with it, who don't know the art of
squandering money without making an
ass of myself. And, Berhard, would
you have me make a fool of myself like
the hack driver, who, becoming sud-
aenlyrich by-a lucky investment in
Pit Hole stock, bought him a carriage,
and when in the Central Park, instead
of getting inside with his wife, mount-
ed the bO, in accordance 4itl his pre-
vious'habits."
"But, Christopher," intei-rupted the
banker, forseeing the inutility of his

TJ1 1300T MAKER OF TILE   FIFTH AVE14t1E.     43


44

THE BOOT MA.Et OF

arguments, "you are universally known
for your common sense.".
"And for that reason, Bernard," re-
torted the bootmaker warmly, -Idao not
wish to sacrifice my reputation., I thank
you for your kind intentions, but mist
bid you good evening-my gtt g knife
demnandumy. attoution, and i is not his
habit to be kept waiting."
"But, Christopher," quoth the bank-
er, very much nettled at thd failure of
his negotiations, "reflect upon tle pre
position, and I will call again to learn
your final determination. All in goon
time, you.know.'
"Always happy to see you, Bernard,
"gaily responded the artisan ; "we will,
enjoy a social hat on this or any other
subject."{
"The fllow," muttered Bernard to
himself, as ho prepared to. depart
"either dissimulates or is a keen specu-
lator, sharper than the rest of us. He
=ias moncy, that is certain. How can
we'get'the mso. ofit, that's the ques-
tioi. Tlc  ising his hat respectu'lly,
the proud Lttasker addressed the med
chanic-Py and by, Cliistopher."
"Toi" inible, obedient servant,"
said the bootmaker, returning.tbe rich;
man's pa tippy salutation with grotesque
solemnity; "you will not forget to call'
when you pass,,flrmurd
No soipxrpiad t he banker departed,
than tho honest bootmnakpr reasued his
cotune and implements of toU; and
seating .himself uppoq  his wlWworn,
bench, commenced hammeringh away
with all the egergp of his earlier youth.
To encourage himself in his toil, Chris-
topher burst forth into, a popular re-
frain, at times pausiipg. in the middle of
a stanzas to give utterance to some re-
filectien suggestedib the interview witt4
the moneyed man.
"Very likely, to, sell out my shop I"
muttered Christopher, giving an obsti-
nate nail a terrible whack on its-head ;
"and invest in paper bubbles, which

t
{,

THE BOOT;MAKER:OF TEE FJFlTII AVENUE.                  45
Christopher smoothed the rufle il fa- "iFvery body ;"seems anxious to pur-
tlhers of his pet, and plisced1I" ierIe9 lbriCaey shop," qiothi theo1hootmupLor.
her gilded cage, whi) e NieboThaivydtIed lt ohtuself, withouIav ag his sea
TE FIFTH AVENJE.                   the irnpison'iet  o hik4  td it w " IftI  Well, g1fine fe1pw coi 9e  e
- .a co iosur ho e~sig uditoffend*%ato hi judge's 1 y; ydid youica ?reben
are often worth nothing. Striking oil
cidividnal reseAt entaganat lifidra ter   p
may be a profitable job for most whal-                                           a
.i .creVegrancy beyond'tle ceiffhesaf                   .t'Abo t, wiat ray fmeo,lag "I, retot-
ers, but with bootmakers it is better to or  a
thsoevetdnythe otsiin          dtelypgip        gecore
stick to the last, and raise hope with a  the stoieivh'c  nly tI tt fioim et  tthe BJ l  : t    cu,  eft}A
of both waafttratd'bytliernttdi  himself rho added  "tQh1 QnUQ 1O
Hereupon Mr. Christopher Last, han- of .a richly res ed 1:y, glbs 'perl Mrs. Littleton."
ing driven the obdurate nail almost out ceded by a hands'omly liveeied dme  "I iangructed  p to inform you,"
of sight, recommenced his melody, and  tic.                            responded the lady, "that yoy being a
e         -               "Talk of the devil," mutterediNiho- next door neighbor was a source of d9ep
progressed this time to its conclusiontr
without stoppage.                   las, as his anger wheast*k iedy the anoyance.
"Pretty song that, ain't it, Polly ?" aparition of the judge's ladyand her ' Somebody said soiietl ing of that
inquired the bootmaker, turning 5his servant, thopr-prieti-ess and the cham- kind, 'nterposed the cobbler.
head around to vi  his' parrot on its  p  oo                                    ontinud the ne'sife
accusto e perch. "Hullo, Nicholas,"   ChritopherLast paid io attentibnuto with .a ,shrug of hershouiders  vhat
he continued, as he perceived the bid  the pompous invasion of hi shdp by' wa the gngwer, which ni wan fhied
.to be missing; "where i} she-Wiere is  his aristBe&amp;ate ineighbor, the wife bf to communicate 7"
Folly I"                            the hohotattle justice itekt door, byre  "Well," rehpied the mechanic, pats-
".  y, boss, I'lastrangle her,' sure,"  suming work, he=lbored a way, accom- inin ihis toil, but gtill inaiutaiiig his
grumble4 the apprenttle, holding in his  paring his 'operation ith suutches seat on the work bench,'ith }i  no'
areas the bird Polly, "by all thiit', holy  from swell known ditties.  repeat to yodr  Adryslip;13lsi i, til itmia,
I'll doit,                           The judge's lady," as the IIUl)Ourltble as your being my next door neighbb'
clStrane Plly yo m        'ex-  Mrs; Littleton adeigviifrtdlydesntidtote did bmii6%uoy ,  did 'hdsire to
claimed i  enraged  li wt   ,        amoith' hai  uf'thoyduba        el in sho
"Qod fq 4ti !"wjoPne   hlas in   a peuotiage sfeWvyea's about lbe ot'hir- :'Vrg ed sir,* said thergistrates
undisgpisgal m,; "not so boss ; eits  tieth, of marked andiegiat .f!'taves t 4f6,;ith i  ughltfbw.  -
hli  em y tlhat, I  i -l sranglee-tho  a stylish tgfifte i ith att i ug tjge:tes  'MoreE7Icr"  fhA'''c ind  tli
d.rty little dog nxt door, whonli have  rior, bearing, however, most distinctive with a pleasant smile, "I am at a loss
caught trying to ra nFolly down.'  signs of melancholy. With patrician- too conceive the manner of annoyance
" The dog belongafo, the judge's like tread,,sh ceteied tlhe sore of the -o you."
lady," interrupted iu istoapher! ;.hope  shoemaker, casting around her looks of  "But if you are offered as large a sum
that the anirpal has; don't poor Polly no disdain, scarcely deigning to best w of money as you could anticipate," oby
alarm ?"            .,..,            even.a nod of recognition upon its pro- served the lady, somewhat puzzled to
"Not as yet, thar:klieaven," replied  prietor, who, as if regardless of the meet the objection.
Nicholas, with a siner ,hug of the   udistocratic jrescnce, continued on his  "Money !" retorted Christopher, with
holders  a c ut there's no  owing  song.  h.                       sneer; " Genevieve once read me a
pco I, ~te bootmak-           "How .this fellow's eternal singing story of a king giving a cobbler a thou-
or, carefshg the bird   After qe-    annoys le," murmured the judge's sand pounds to stop his singing. At
vieve aniid' tepheW anil, th're's io- lady ; "this perpetual quiet vexes me the end of the week he brought the
thing on th; earth for  lich I ha   1 the heat t." Then raising her voice money back. I think you had better
warmer  ffecro    Thlt's solL  to an audible pitch, the Honorable Mrs. keep yours in hand."
bird."                       Fo      Littleton addressed the mechanic, "Has  "Still," quoth the judge's lady, "I re-
"If that dog chies her agahi,'4in-  my business agent visited you I I in- peat, the 'neighborhood is vexatious to
terruited the apprence, "nther the   ructed him to make ani oiler ifr the ie, and therefore I will buy your
judge's lady r her big thief' of afoot- purchase of your shop. Did lie attend shop."
man will -preventm6 't-rom' tternninat-  to thbe matter ?"           -   " Ihonorable madame !" said Christo-
ing the vermin 'n the spot."
"Now into your cage, Polyldar
said then cobbler," and don't let me cat ch
you going about agadding'again"


r

THE BOOT MAKER OF THE FIFTH AVENUE.

pher, with a dignified tone of voice,
"there is only one -point of trouble be-
tween us, and that is a quarrel between
your spaniel and my parrot. Well,
suppose I shbald say to you, 'your.
spaniel wants to kill my bird, therefore
sell your mansion.' Yot would ensured.
ly laugh bi my face; atud yet, from some
equally fantastic reason, you want me
to sell my shop."
"Will no sacrifice content you ?" in-
quired the lady earnestly.
"Now listen, madam," resumed the
bootmaker, with marked suavity, "I
have acquaintance in this quarter od tl e
town, who drop in upon me almost every,
night, and Ihave no desire to live at a
distance from them; now it is evident
that you or your friends shall buy them
out, so that they move likewise."
"You are determined to remain, I.
perceive," said the judge's wife, with
ked emphasis;" then be it as you
please."
"As you please, -madame," returned
the bootmaker, proudly ; "iyou bear a
proud name, own a magniacent man-
sion, boast an honored husband d-you
are rich, respected And happy."

The judge's lady smiled satirically at
this fial allusion.
"Yes, madame," continued Christo-
pher, unmindful of her interruption,
''you have friends in. every part of the
city, you will find them or they will run
after you; while Polly my daughter
and u yself, we hav nong save in this
quarter. Hence, let us rest in peace. If
my songs annoy you, then I will sing
them in a whisper;,for I must sing, even
if the queen was here."
"You are an honest man," remarked
the ledy, as she prepared to leave the
shop;, "retain your shop and its plea-
sant associations ; from this day forth
orders will be given tomy people never
again to molest you. Good by, my joy-
ous neighbor."
"Let us strive to live in neighborly
harmony," replied the artisan, as -the.
honorable lady emerged fropi the hum-
ble shop of her neighbor, and ascended
the steps of her palatial residence.
"It's a funny world this, any how,"
quoth Christopher .Las$,, as he resumed
his toil, and recommended hissong;,"but
it don't lie in their power to make an
honest man sell his inheritance, for the
sake of pomp and vanity in others."

THE BOOT MAKER OF THE FIFTH AVENUE.

46

47

CHAPTER VIII.
TE YOUNG DQTOR.
"Well, doctor, how' stiff anid proud
you walked past our house this morn-
ing-put on ears enough for an oil doc-
tor."
Doctor Morand was forced to smile -at
the rude familiarity with which. the
honest bootmaker saluted his? ritor, as
the- physician entered the sh16p, so re=,
cently honored by the presence of the-
aristoci-atie wife of their judicial nuigh
bor.
"Proud t" responded Dr. Morand, a
young -man of fashionable attire and
polished manners; "0, not, nOt as bad
as that. I may have been thoughtful,
for indeed I felt very melancholy." -
"Melancholy, and on what account?'
returned Christopher, in an eticourag:
ing tone of voice ; "are your patients
all cured, or is this section of the town-
too healthy to' breed epidemics t  In
that case set up to regulate the oilfever.
and no quack will ever be more riume-
riously followed by the good folks of the
avenue."
"It is a disease of the brain beyond
medical treatment," remarked the doc-
tor with a smile ; "if it kills some vic-
tims, others thrive on it."
"And have you, too, passed over to

the enemy,":observed Christopher, with
a look of astonishment-"I thought you
a man of sense,.
"The enemy !" quoth the young man,
with a smile '"when I take iunto con-
sideration the rapid fortunes accumu-
lated by, speculato  and the, pitifil
stums deled forthl t weuof talent, I am
perplexe4 o think whicl are the ene-
mies to, our race."
"You are bitter, Stephen," returned
the cobbler, "and should be taken care
of by some man of more than ordinary
common sense."
"What, have I not to complain of for-
tune'?" observed the physician, enthu-
siastically; " I have grown pale over
books ; I have sought intelligence in
leagues of travel; I have courted both
glory snd happiness ; I have found
neither; but on the other hand, Iam
advisedl to pass more sleepless days in
prosecuting a bootless mission I"
"Have courage, Stephen," replied
Christopher, with an air 'of honesty-,
"prosecute your works, and you will be
a great physician,"
"Yes," rejoined the young man, with
a dubious shake 'of ,the head, "it may
be so; but while awaiting thedawn of
reputation and' renown, Iremain plung-
ed in poverty}and misery."
Dr. Morand stopped short in his
speech, and paced the floor nervously,
for the thought of his poverty recalled
to his mind the Impossibility of a suc-
cessful competition for the affections of
Flora unless backed by that potent aux-
illiary.
The shoemaker noticed his abstrac-
tion, but attributed.it toa very different
cause.
"I have something to dispel your mi-
sery," quoth Christopher.
"What can that be 1" inquired the
physician.
"Ready money," replied the me
chanic. "You are aware that I request.


THE BOOT MAKER OF THE FIFTH AVENUE.i

ed consultations for some=of my rela-
tives. Well, this very - irntng I lhtWr
received advices from them enblosing
the money:"
"But Itbought they were poor peoe'
ple," observed thef-doctors
"They ate the ibore happy finco dtt::
der your'treatieont, 'end e 'ilerg to.
pay f' it, notetra nga tir 'at lib '-
rally, as the only medical .inai i the
villagehappens to be a h6r ' doetf;
Uncle Thomas sends : ten dollar bill ;
anothe'froth his'brothel, 'wh'o has the'
rheumatism ; a third from his sister,
who haO been cuied of the erysipelas,
according to your prescription."
"Cured through one, prescription,"
ejaculatedthe docor in astonishment,
while tho'antitanlughd At hia ingeb
ions fabrication.
"Yes, cured," rejoined the bootmak-
er; and ho spoke the truth, for the good
old soul had been teo yars beneath
the sods-"Agrand etnua total of thirty
dollars, which I am chaged to remit to'
you .
The doctor remaiued-perisive 'during
all this time, and  ecianically took the
letters from tliuIandro'f Christophgrf
n'%ting ie' '     ferfli e ,'he
was astunished  dhfibtg'tlhein all'writ
ten in a sinihir' tyle&amp; of eliiograp1iY,
which the: perj lexei Christopher at=
tempted' to- exphdi vay:byiasserting
that if tthey- them'selmvs 'otld redd and
write, t elo o wAs no reason - to stppose
iliat every ne elSe was adbrned by the-
sam.a4tcenmphltinont.  .
lent jsdge of the good man's sheer'
(d  isn poinetnti wheni Dv.:Morand pDr-
cinptrl dyclihbed acceptingrtheapr9 ,
tied coiitents of the epistles.  e a
"They are poor people,'! said the doo-
tor, in a melancholy tone of voice, as
memory of ,im own poverty flashed upon
him, "and I cannot conscientiously-take,
from wages won by the sweat 6Qfth
brow."    -

Christopher Last was doubly discon-
carted, for he perceived that either the
i genuity of his device was penetrated,
that the smallness of the sum ren-
Bred its acceptance a matter of hesita-
tion; for the worthy bootmaker failed
to comprehend the small estimate which
-4en, accustomed to commingle with the
4shionable world, place upon sums
dhich, in the eyes of operatives, are
regarded, if not as miracles of wealth,
Ut least as auxilliary to happiness.
"Stephen speak to me frankly," said-
Christopher, as he paced his store anx-
iusly; "how much is it necessary to
a cure your welfare ;saghere lacking
a large sum-a hundred dollars or so I"
"We will noteojverseion that point,"
retarned4Pe physician ; " and pardpn,
lbonest Chgiptopher, a aadac9 c  which .1
should havehpd thec urgge; to;nonce l
before so kind a heart as thine."
ertoerds," 'paid Chmatopher rese
l toly      I ow  you -ariuane 'than I I
bal ebe 4l1e to pay ycu. It is hot,'
t ien, ng   rf one, two or dfivnl uu
deddpll i, ay 4e wi thotitand " And
the kimnl::nehlanica vateb4ded-.eh ex-
pression of the physician's face as he,
4  ' ,h'  gghedsthe doctor;;autobly  i
"A thiogand(l  larsl' itorposed thp
bootmakeyfjzysly; "th's veryeasy
easily ob agsmd. if your fo ure depends
11 on nuyipyphity."
" m.'rwhon\?'' inquired Dr. Moranid
with garuist e.
Troni. we     " repgjated the cord-,
ainer withta d)erisiv wpile,; "I have
ac   .   n     cs, ; clongs, who appear
n'ogg igeggeypaggvl~o pugd be plro Id
tb call Christophei Last their debtor
:yae, btnW pgs lents, whom  13Ih ve rem
t    si  t   e  d  l i o led ."
"Yoe .aramat , 'Christopher," said the
physician, in evident ,astouiluhnut,
4ud ig     , n idle faUCcs,.d('htr'3

T11E BO T. MAKJ '=JI O? -flj 4.,I iT  E I J.

49

dreants. Uold !"  he cortinued;'as he
took tle hank I ills from the letters-and
passed treur through his hand;'hkwe
the trut h, the sole idea to vhiai mdst
attach nr self. In thee fee i =datiand
drink for a month to cone ;' and' he
added, with an illy disguised em tic n,
"hurrah for the greenbact--tikr ae
my salvat ion !"
Christiopher looked upon the physi-
cian with 1an air of stupefaction ; for the
worthy boot maker was unable to com-
prehc::I the eccentricity of the young
man's movements, especially when he
grasped tie hand of the houest Chris-
topher, and shook it most heartily, and
almos- imperceptibly guided from the
shop of his benefactor.
The generosity of Christopher had
awakened a new sensation with the
young doctor, and lie now experienced
a biting feeling of anger at his poverty
strickent condition, which precluded his
aspirations to the favor of the hand-
so-ne opera singer, courted as she was
by some dozen of the wealthiest and
most distinguished beaux of the town.
Christopher Last, while he noticed
the depression of Stephen, attributed it
to a fir diferent source ; for the good
man, apprehending that he detected a
passion for Genevieve lurking within
the doctor's heart, ilattered himself that
if he did not succeed in wooing her
himself, n could bring about an union
between destined lovers.
"Poor fellow," soliloquised the boot.
maker, wThen he found himself alone,
casting a languishing glance upon the
depart ing form of his protege; "he at-
empt s to laugh and yet sheds tears, for
his sorrows are breaking his heart. ie.
aust have the money. Yes, but a thou-
and inodlars in cash ! Where can it be
raised I I have somet hIing saved, but
mt enr vr ;" la oe btooItwker whis-
:led for very lack ot thoughts, as the

-j

48

sn   4   f    cadri      is    1 warr,

]

-      ot'vg.  !" reoicingly ejaculated
Christ phersas a luignonsiea struc
him. "I'll sell the house to "6ithr the
specnltors or to the judb' lad.
Tien asu den felinu6#r mrss tiitlh-
ed-Mi lt t' liestitediita action. "Bah 1
im'S fonrtephen, wbe yWed. oJr  ene -
"Here, boss," quoth Nicholas Strap,
entering the shop suddenly, "is a shoe
of Miss Genevieve's, which wants some
stitches in the solo."
The bootmaker took the work imme-
diately from the apprentice's hand, for
that discerning youth, aware of the af-
fection of Christopher for his 'laughter,
refrained from a labor which gave his
master infinite joy.
"You know that I love my daughter,
Nicholas ?"
"I'm neither deaf nor dumb, boss,"
returned the apprentice; "but there is
one thing that bothers me. Why dog't
you kiss your daughter?"
"Who's put that stupidity into your
head ?" asked the bootmaker, angrily.
"Now, boss," replied Straj, "there
are folks who look upon you as a very
neglectful father. Notthat you decline
providing her every want, but then you
never kiss her. For =instance, to-day,
when you bought her these pretty fix-
ings, and the poor soul was dying for a
kiss, and at night when she parts with
you in a voice reaching to your heart,
you follow her with your eyes, but
never a kiss do you give her."
"You pester me, booby," said the
artisan, with vehemence ; "I'm a father
after my own style, and that suits my
own humor."
"Each man according to his own
taste," rejoined the garrulous appren-
tice; "that may suit your humor, but if
I were in your lace, I woulIn't stand
on mee' triiks--Fd h iss her fronwmorn-
ing till night."
"Yea kiss my Geaeviave !" kowl.4


50           THE BOOTMAtER 01
the bootmaker, raising aloft the shoe-
hammer in a manner threatening'rto'
Strap's nerves.
"That is, if I was her father," apo-
logetically responded the apprentice.
The worthy Christopher was appeas-
ed; but a sigh passed through his

TRlE PF'IFTH AVENUE.
bosom. -It seenyed to h m for the m.
ment that te secret, of Genevieve's
nativity had escaped him, and he dread.
ed the idea that upon learning the truth
as :to her birth, t he girl might divert her
love from her over anxious protector,
when ske ascertained that he was no
longer her parent.

THE BOOT lAKEL OF THE FIFTH AVENUE.

"Youwere born in the village of Clif-
ton?"
"I should not be surprised - as well
there as any where else."
"You have a daughter ?" asked the
ettanger most seriously.
"Yes, I have a daughter," responded
Christopher, losing his patience.
"Sixteen years of age f" resumed the
Visitor, with calmness.
'Somewhere about that age," and
Christopher looked for his lapstone.
" That's all about her that I want to
know," quoth the stranger.
4 Then go where you come from and
he  -" the shoemaker stopped short.
"Yes,,but I'm not donQ with you,"
remarked the visitor with suavity.
"Geoahead then ; for there's an end
to every man's powers of endurance."
"You lost your parents when you
were young."
" Plain truth, and not worth deny-
""Whek you were about twelve rear
of age ?"
"About that time," replied the boot-
maker with a sad countenance.
"Although you hate the appearanee
of being thirty-tifree or thirty-four years
of age," remarked the' stranger, with a
very strong ironical'emphasis, "you are
in reality about thirty."
"Yes," replied Christopher, abstract-
edly, ~"somewhere tietr thirty or there
about".-theni 4dlenly raising up hd
head he eoitinued-3'thirty ornot;  vhat
is they end you are driving at in this
matter  "
"Nothing particular, Mr. Christopher
Last," responded the stranger, in his
slow and measured tones; e"Gnevieve,
your daughter, is eighteen; you, her
father,, are thirty-two. consequently
you wdre a parent at the rip&amp; ago of
fourteen-too precocious, I think, Vi .
Last, for even these.fast days and baby
wives.

CHAPTER IX.
FATHER AND DAUUHTE.'
"A word with you, if you plese."
Christopher, ever working. lifted up
his head, and saw before him  a stran-
ger, whose. countenance bore a singu-
larly repulsive expression.
"On business ?" curtly inqui ed the
bootmaker, laying down a last..
"With you, yourself," retorted the
stranger with a grim smile..
'Rights and lefts,'" continued Chris
toplier, glancing at his visitor'shoots
with the air of an expert--"those boots
weren't made in this town!"
"Our matter does not relate to boots,"'
remarked ; the stranger ; "I have come
to converse with you on particular and
private business."
"But I don't know who you are," re-
turned the cordwainer, dryly.
"You will have little trouble in mak-
ing my acquaintance," observed the
visitor, with a shrug of the shoulders,
" especially if you permit me to en-
lighten myself upon some simple points
which interest us both."
"W.hat I~ the first point to begin
then ?" a ked the shoemaker.
"Your name is Christopher Last i"
inquired the stranger.
" So sajd -my sponsors )i baptism.
What's next?" replied Chr stoplier.

51

F

5
r                                                                        ,
r                   ti  t
1 " 5,
" r "      -         '   1..bF _,   as.  t     k i ).        c     . " "          4.\,, ra:  .  i yH" -  '?   scRaat c   r r.. aG tT   s+Yr'r4Y  i    +*  f     r             +


52

I

THE~~~~~1T -OT  VEhQ~ ~I~~J~f~ YNUE._

"Possibly," returned the boo keser,
rather taken aback by the turn the e ,
amination hAd taken1' "now iis py turn
to examine you; "and, yon vil.loblig
me byleting me knQw --    .
"Nothing for the igonent," quoth the
stranger--"so good day."
"I insist upon your staying, as I wish
to speak," urged the bootnaker.'
"Bosh!" replied the' strange gentle-
man-"you desire no more gossip about'
the birth of Genevieve thnal I do. o
am a physiognomist. I made avagei
with a friend that you passed yourself,
off as older than "yu really are, and
that you were too- young to 1e this
young lady's father.' I have gained my
wager, and ht'o the honor of saluting
you."
As the mysterious stranger wended
his way through the door, the artisan,
amazed at his impertinence, wasstempt-
ed to hasten after him, in the hope of
ascertaining his name and business.
Just then the remembrance of Stephen's
money pressed upon him, and he-called
to Nicholas to, give him express direct,
tions as to-the raising of money. -  .
"Listen, Nicholas," said Christopher,
tartly, "and pay prtieplar uttenlon.
If Mr. Barnard calls, it ori uhim that I
have reflecteI, and.jnue  him to in-
vest for me all my spare cpsh-onechuin-
dred and eighty-twp dolfer4-,mind, one
hundred and eighty i? and .the worthy
cobbler repeated Qveg the ynopatsone
half dozen times,. well~l;owingthe in-
herent stupidity of his apprentice.
" One hundred and eighty,",quoth
Nicholas, to himself, after his master,
had departed, in the &amp;pin hopofeatch-
Ing his visitor; "my boss is gone with,
the current and taking to string oil ;
just to remember the amount, I'll chalk
it op the counter."
Mr. Nicholas Strap had some idga of
figures, for those he made were legible
ohiefly on account, o their size ; but
his theory of calculation did not em-

race the calculation of units and (deci-
*nals by our arrangemen  Conseqtently
the counter upon 'which our genius in-
$cribed his 180, presented the siingular
inscriptionn 10080, as representiig his
oss' spare cash or available capital.

Mr. Nicholas Strap had scarce com-
pleted liii mathematical problem, when
the banker appeared ret the shop door,
and anxiously inquired whether Mr.
Last had arrived at any conclusion.
" Wholly, Mr. Bernard," responded
Nicholas, "we're in the current and are
,naturally bound to make our fortaues-
that's so, sir.'
"He consents to sell or to lease his
shop a" inquired the banker;
"Yes, to do everything to augment
our capitals."
"Capitals ! I don't understand you,
my fine fellow."
"Easy enough ; the boss is gone forr
the funds," remarked Nicholas, with a'
deterininda air ; "you can buy stock for
him right away."
"Then I was , ot deceived," murmur-
ed Bernard to himself; and then he
added aloud-- " how much available
capital has he1"
"All chalked upon the counter there.
One --"
'Ir. Nicholas Strap would have con-
tirued further, ahd explained his own
figures in a worldly method; but at that
instant the noise of a falling body, the
scream of an affrighted parrot, and the
growl of a snarling dog, proceeding from
the rear, announced to thevigilant pro-,
tector of Miss'Polly that that lady had
again been made the subject of ass-cult
from the pet spaniel of their' neighbor
the judge's lady.°t. r
Left to his own deciphering, Mr.,Ber-
nard quickly made out the; fgures, and
murmured to himself-
"Ten thousand and eighty 4oltars in
ready cash, for me to 'invest the whole
in anticipation of a rise; if 'the ,ulls'

P,
TILE  OOT MAIi1OF  lE FIFTH AV'N       .
aliar's rd   b e rne  hier retreat cut  tp by  t i iitS 6i  s tion
is   pe                            oMarcy's athletic fdiii betv~eenh e
; ust atthat Ino cut G nev ove   land the rer door.'y
tered the store from   G ret, o   "What do '  sty anel?" quoth
sere g  the stor ersa ) t e it aspect the  young '  an, with  allt}the  tills'flf '
serving thtbnfe tl e    itrppe  eR ihrMplil 9                %  oa-
fully ; but the ,pan of busAL'ess gi "too m, ,h , whe    IW
much, egrosse in his calcuatignos at blh; to tell you that you are beautiful
the moment t a .to notice the p                 you t diBactio
of the young and lovely beauty.    that I mean thatcharnis like thine 'shall
"Yes, my dear child," quo  Bernard, no longer be 'hidden benath boddice
after a few seconds of medig'tiop; Ber and cotton drapery !" nd"Marey ap-
nard will bring you a handsome, very preached tie girl.
handsome dowry."                     "ot a step further!" said Genevieve,
Although Gene ievo was young in' de rerately, "or I wt call for help."
years, she was possessed of maure dis  "you  ill do vrong," observed t
eretion, consequently' the '4rds df  r. libertine "for I will :ma  t gtdiie
Bernard, which slitinterpfeted in their who dareds to intf in  ur pgrdonal
proper ueaniu, aliireldlkit to think iImattens.,
that her father, the staid ltnd steady  Genevieve h e,d ,ceeply and sank
architect of his and her fdrtuine, had trembling into a chair.
plunged ii the Vortex' of stock' gam'  "Come4 my dearvne, calm. thyself,"
bling.                             resumed Marcy,ashe took a placeflear
nWhat-Wha t6 ne, this very hand- the aff ighted maiden ; -Ifwhy repel me
some dowry' "soliloqulised the-young in this mannerI If it is for the sake of
lady, as alit g tt d flerself l ,the siop; appear i  the  o  % 'dooil; nd
"j$s  will' not Tukase the heart of now let'-xhan   few mihtes of sedio s
atephen--itV Williot lesseil'4he distance co versati 'n.f
which separates a learned doctor and a  "In the naie of iee, ei," 'muf
.-a shoemaker's .Iaughter !'      inured Geniyive, :aa theotegra gushed
Geneiee Wat8sO ee pIoccu pied by in  warn.floodsafromdrev downcastteyes,
her ieilctioisg that"she failed to Wotice "whaitve I done 'to aithoriz'e&amp;youiin
the entry of a well-dredd ,entleinan, addressing mo iwidltinsulting wor4s."
who sorneiwhat rudly touched 'her on  " Insulting+worda! ": ejalated the
her hutder.                    . beau, with simulated indignation -.
Genevieve no soone- experienced the "when. I ve btrte  to assure you of my
intrusion, than, with'tscream of 'timi- adoration, yotubrand my declaration as
dity, she i&amp;llfor refuge towards the tear' an insult.;,'What charming coquetry!-
apartmrentsa hundred times the nmoreexqtlsite-dis
"Tut ! tut! my fair damsel!" qndth- gaised'beneath tears."
Marcy ,foriitas the bankrupt eiquisite,  "Suffer me to reti ej or I will call my
who, having watched through tbhe l    father."
dows of the shop,availed himself of the  "Be only reasonable,'M rejoined Marcy,
absence of its proprietor to follow up, "Kad'hear how I lovdybu."
the fugitive girl ; "if you fly at my  - 'Genevieve would'havof inted, but
prach,%. shall neve r de t."'  '  sb ingiUlned that ahe'lleied the'ip.
"Well,' sir,;P deinainded 'thelmuidenl, proachif fbotsteps'df'herofather andlR
with an au4 of tffeshded dignity?"" 4hat his ton~hmiiy~h thedor.~~'
dd yon waidt'wkh m'cl" fdr sh'found' "One kiss before we part, my charm,


3+4          TH   BOT, MAKER OF  HE{ FIFTH AVENUE.
er," ao thelptina seized the maiden   "Be .it so, and take the risk !" ex-
in his  rf~criy to wrest the dew   claimed thede iicInife, as'he disengagd
f-om her virgin lips.  .            himself from the arms of his daughter
"npaud     --unhan   e !j' shouted''a~deae'threilikingly towards the
G   a eipve, iago ny heart.        peiro   f-her ineslter.
"Never ptil I gait myei !" rejoin-  Bliui fti-on  hand suddenly stayed
ed Marcy, too much carried away b' the arin of the shoemaker.
tie excitempnt of his passion to observe  Betveit the combatants stood the
the entree of phristopher Last, who, frame of the myisterions stranger. who
upon perceivinglhisdanglter'sjeopardy, had previously confoundeil Christo-
rushed frantically to her; rescue, aid pher'% cdia 'to fiB paternity oft the
dealt the agressor a powerful.blow.  Female, w ose defense he ndv espoused.
"Scoundrel!" fairly bowled the'boor-  ",Christopher Liat," said tih' visitor,
maker, as the exquisite reeled beneath 'in deep' yet accents, "yu may thank
th effects of the bIopghich alnopt   our stga} that I have arrived in time
lai him prpstr ite.             ty' toavprt prta disaster."
"a    r r" jcilated Geivieve, in-  Wh       you itprere in my af-
etinctively clinging to her parent.  g, tiis.",igrud Chiiopher.
" Christopher Last, the cobbler .   .am   t    .?eddling in your d.ft'airs,"
quoth Marcy, reco ed  lis equili-    ''.u
bro     sir,"       te 4-   '   ' .  returnedlthe stranger,' sterulv; "this
brium.                                  f             i,       .
"'Yes sir,"rejoined the ordwainer, matter "#purely jer gnal to Miss Gene-
veheiently - "cobbler ovaM cobbler, vieve."
you have dared to insult 'ur=daugh-  "Yes,'gtorted ths shoemaker; "and
ter U'   .    'aa     eae.          this econg}grg1A  l ?-r"          -
"I am4 a gente1is,n, aespaible for  "Mr. ans:r" ,int  sdrhe satran-
uyctions," replied the li hrtie; !you ger, paying no attentqop t theshoe-
have only to inquire at the,.iftJithAYe- maker's, ,ngr,  p worg with you for
nas Hotel forr. Marcy.'T  ".       your pki, e."
"You a gentleman! andBpeal to the  "With me 1" jacuated the, beau;
code of honor for thetcim of insulting but the .manner oftlianyiterious man's
a female" said the °artisan, bldly- speeg breptmieda determination to ad-
"my gentility is of amiere *acred- aha- mit  # ~depi .
raoter, fogj have' the 'honor 'of being' a  "Geney eve," qqqth Christopher, as
father 3"-                          he noticed the couple retire to a corner
"Splendid I" ejacula eglarcy, leri- of the shop, and felt himslf unable to
sively; " a magificentapeech ijbut I penetrate the mystery of lhis  nwel-
think it may * l e stolen 'from a New  come- guest's behavior, "I dread some
Bowery melodrama."                  misfortune ;" and then the pertugsted,
"Depart, sir," entreated Genevieve, artisan fell into a sullen revery.
hanging on Christ9phei's bosom.  -        . Marcy,",said the straugse, "yoU
"Depart !" repeated the shoemaker, loye this ;onaglady', :" q
castinghis eje sup op his lapstone "by_  "I envy pgsssasion of hertat all
gone, I say, or I fear, me that 1uny even,', replied. tlh  beau; tambign-
train Y94et he po ,' a  , m       o ely
" You« the"ten Wdo yo ?" rcsomle. "But," "i ir. posed the question
MpoyecewgPpgely;. "thatalt lmi   "shos# ~it ,proye the ,Genevieve vas
eumatanees, and. -I now prefer a ore bout from one of the, prondgat fatniliep,
'nain..", , a  ,                    inthe 'lapd and heirgse yo gouestate ol

I

THE BOOT     RON P TE F IFTkI:AVENUE;:

i
t
i
.
}
7I
F
F

at least one hundred thousands del-
"A hundred thousandd liars!"  ja-
culated the bankrupt dandy,; "then .my
happiness would be converted in to
good speculation.",
The pair, watched by the nervous,
mechanic, who balanced in his mind the
propriety of  revealing to the yoga
maiden thealong pent-up secret as to
her birth, conversed for some minutes
in tones 'inaudible to th ootmaker's
ear; but as they separated, tho over-
lheard the mysterious straoger declare
to his new made companion-
"Genevieve will be your, wife inside
of fifteen days !"
CHAPTER X.
THE REVELATION OF TiE SECRET.
"Twice have I attempted t commu-
nicate with Genevieve to roved1every
thing to her, but each time' the woirds
stuklin my throat. Not only will' tell
the secret of her birth, bit thdt e~ei
of my own heart. She niay ladgh4at
me-mock me-but she must know how
deeply, how sincerely I adore htei !
In, truth; the worthy bootmaker h .d
made two several attempts to unlhosom
himself to his fair  charge. 'he first
timn lie found himself too coarse and
vulgar to aspire to the' hand of the
belle ; on the second, he conceived
himself too ugly to compete with the
gaily attired suitors ever floating;around-
the shrine of beauty.
Determining upon a final effort, Mr,
Christopher Last resolved upon array-.
ing himself in his finest habiliments.
Accordingly he summoned to him Ni-
cholas to officiate as his valet de chan-
bre, who appeared in the little parlor
of the bootmaker's d welling, cautiously
bearing the hest garments of the arti-
tan while blubbering piteously.

"Here it is, boss,"quotltha  t
tice, wiping his eyes with his Engefes
"What's the natter ?" inqquired Chri.
topher -" what are' you' blubbeting
for?"
"0, boss," mourned the.weeping Ni-
cholas, "she is so very sick.'
"Is Geneyieve sick?" demanded the
artisan earnestly.
"Polly, boss, Polly," responded Mr.
Strap, still weeping.
"What's that to me" inquired Chris-
topher, tartly.
"0, boss, the pretty parrot," retorted
Nicholas, in a tone of reproach.
"Youare right Niclholas,"replied the
bootmaker. 'It wasn't that I alluded
to. I thought it was-=-never mind-i
is nothing.
" Nothing !". ejaculated Nicholas,'. in-
disdain; "one iblov tof a elawtineach
wingsand two in the. ek-'-that's omie-
thin I say                    ,
"That cursed spaniel again !" mut-
';'The ,assassin.!" exelaimed the ,ap-
prei ice; "but I have got him thistie
downin the cellar, and if anything
happens to Polly --"
" Do nothing to 'the dog unless poor
Polly dies."
" That can't be," returned Nicholas,
"as I have sent for Di. Moran'd to come
directly, without letting 'him know who
for."
During this conversation Mr. Christo-
pher :Last suiceeeded in ar'aying him-
self with his finest and costliest gar-
ment, yet surveying himself-n the
glass, displaying each portion of his
'person, andcriticising his' entire ap-
pearance, the bootmaker grew discon-
teuted, as he lacked that air of graceful
elegance which he had noted in the
army of beaux who daily passed by his
sho
'Nicholas,;is this my best coat ?" in-
quired tho mechanic testily.
"Bless your'soul, boss, it is your au-
per-extra Smytlay one."


:
t,
P

T1W1'OPT TAKER' Ol NTIF1 1'I       AVENUE.
"N ielud StrapyV                'day ,wli1ea 6  arks an era in your life, for
'M~oss 4"                         1 have. sot itWacart to reveal to you a
'Iow(d yead it nay;looks "     secret." x'";.
%a 'fq ai e splen didhboss--more that  "A  eret! 'eceulated lhe maiden,
splendid !"                         alairied at his serious tone.
1,i dpn't meat1 the clothes only-hew  '" Yes, a secret concerning your
alX ,it tiC  fIue4"             Ibirth"
*  Xery: eleau -imenself 'lecn -I  "My brtl' repeated tlhe duensel,
mean, very expressiv#."            gazing at Christopher in yonder.'  T
s.is t'is the triiiNicholas 1"    "Yes," resunod the bootniaker, with
"IFact is, b'ss," exclainedl11Ir. Strap, evident ti'rpidation ; "I am 1now forced
ex1hiigly, tjl I were. a woman, I'd to tell you" eaevieve, that you are not
marry yon toi-morr'ow. Upon my soul; nmy daughtci.'
I oul, boss." ,."Not your daughter!" ejaculated the
Christolher Last wayaalelighted. and-young girl ; "that is impossible. 0, no,
vigcoathi self, iw"the ghls, with evi- no, no. Say to nie truly. Say to me
dtisftietp, especially as Micho}- that I am your child !"
lak badffparfed to apprise, Geuevieve  "No, Genevieve, you are no child of
of his desire for ani interview, upon mine."
which Ilngthe 1futl-c of his destiny.  Genevieve burst into tears, and threw
' Who knows' solitogised the boot- herself upon Christopher's neck.
mkias he pacedthis parlor; " when   "The daughter of a bootmaker," said
she learns that I am not he ftather,-she the honest working man, "it is not so
may perhaps Xixerieuee as ieen a; sor- proud a pedigree as to mourii its loss."
row as I do at the thought 4f Ont's  ''lBut who is left to love me now 7"
ratiy ;' Yd iilybed she mnay hay'to ue:  "I, Gesevieve-here, now, herediter
'Cdiistdbhie  l 'en iio longer be your and forever more."
daueghter,'but can' be your vi--!' 0,  ' Will you promise never to forget
dear, if sho should say so !"       me ":
'Good   i'orrow, father," quoth Genet  "Yes, Genevieve, I solemnly swearto
vieve, as e entered the chamber, raw remember and to love you," said Chris-
diant .itlh jo ogye smiles; "how hand- topher, as he raised his hand heaven-
som, ou are looking,   ,     .       ward  "And as I can no longer love
o u f1 n1  me so?" remarked the youfas i father, be it then as a friend,
bootai lter, dylightedly.           a br other, as a -" and the bootmaker
"yes, your clutheaeate well made, and paused abruptly.
it you beautitully.",                 "Always as a father," rejoined the
"It is the celhes then that mates damsel--"that love is to sweet."
my beaut ," icd Christopher- sighed, . "Well," replied Christopher," sorely
for it struck i~m that hisbeauty rested disconcerted, "if that is your will.",
uponp shim foiidtion.               The girl observed the worthy man's
'"ut I loved youm much better before halt concealed annoyance, and im-
you1itd them, father."             plored him to continue the narrative of
c"hipten, Genevieve,".omenced the her nativity,
mechanic, after sundry hemas, ha'd and "The story is short," resumed the
throat ceanisings, "on days of cere- bootmaker, with a deeply drawn sigh.
mony we should put on our best clothes, "I received you from the bands of y our
and it .is for this -reason- that I haeo nurse and foster mother as shze lay at
dressed mnyself to-day. Yes, this is a the point of death. She confi .~a to me

f

I

If

oily theMame
etta Desmond,
vadinly searohbi
At fihe sanm ii
documel~nts;Whj
your eighteen
month hence.'
" And you
charge of me,
woman mst n
expended up(
cares--yoii ha
sweat oft your
this as my due
believed fait]
daughter.",
YMOnlhe con
delbtedness is
Christopher 'i
done moi-e f o
a"ssy not eo
with a feeling
"When i
resumed the0
-cl ,  I  ,as
o devil-may'
o  iin  for  wtisj
my earnings ,
,at thehea4 o
self, 'reform
one - leave
dresses;' and
you m47bei
"Heavpn1
ejaculated th
" Later
grew.up larg
bonnets, gg
my smaller v
lute .eompagU
the land qf
grow in happ
"Yopu hav
ness to rue,"
she benei ove
and befeowed
"Dry you
anl~dyour te

I

THE BOOTMAKElR O' 1    TNE N'iff1 ANEN
6f your motherHenri- break Ihi heattbf' a 'doantin.$&amp;r
after houaI hobve hen a ikTieii, in adminin of herhe iutb ,
rg f'r fifteen long years. the mWdhanic ejacillated '" htslovely
nt  she etrnttedlme whi an nngeL !"
ich youCate to mead cn   Tlichead hf poor ChristoipliiBecame
ih' birth ddy-that i .a turned, as ho'gaz  o  lis s e taeld of
filial atfeetin. He lehned over the face
have contented to titke of telb faine, and, carried away by
" responded th6 young the excitementit cf the moment, was on
ffeelitnately ; "you lmahe tho-point of iiplant ing a ferent kiss
on me the abt6 teuiief upon her lips." The frenzy ov ixcite-
ye lintirislid i with the went exhausted itself, as, with i deep
brig -o-ad I accpted ;il sigh, the devoted protect oi-, r c;llihg
, because I th6.ig'ht and to mind theit' relations, reliquishiedhis
hrually that I' was yonr project.
" And now when I 'think upon i
trtry ,the balanieeof i murinure Genevieve,mu in19 'soe-
agendt ie," remarked tin1g must have happened 'or you to
iths a sigh, "for o i a  reveal a scieot which you have so long
me than I have for you' ,oi"caled from me."
"You are eight, Gcne'ieve,' re"pd
o    5 ned  eev'v' ed Christopher, with a tinge madness,
of ijr i"sometuing has occurred. ' In  et , our
opted you, my dearest " position can no longer i'enaii teh'same,
bootmaker more, cheer     e      e
. vciermy' ear one.'
a roving blade, a species  "Must I then leave "yon?1" iniquired
care subject, with pa s- the maiden, affrighted.
ey, which set aay all   "Would' such a martin  bring you
But when I awvmyself sorw, Genevieve?"
if a family, I sapi tq iqy-  "Iowean you ask sudh a'qu stidh  1
fr $3 sake of the littl# rejoined the young girl, thh tearS ni'st-
off whiskey to put -0o ing, afresh- from thedroopihg eyelids.
so    . v    drink that "Cad you bdhievo that I can habitiate
e eei u ,Phappy."       myself to living away froth h orie vhhtis
s   you, kind father," brought mc up from irfdneyL-fism one-
e grateful gir. '-     in whose single person I have found
, ghen, ny Genevieve conjoined all family ties ?"   '
en an larger; and wanted  "Then listen to ne, Genevieve, and
vge a;  .1caks, I reduced pause in your judgment," said Clristo-
iep, A:schargcd my disso- pher, reassumiig a portion of hisi ordi-
j nas and settled down on nary equinimity. " WhOn T adopted
IIay father, that she may you I was but 'i my ciitedikh jcar;
iness and content."     toil, trouble and a vagrant life gave me
e been an .angel of good- the appearance of at leaSt-twenty-five.
exclaimed Genevieve, as Without difficulty I was mecegnised as
y the neck of her-guardian, your father, and proportionately as you
* it with, tears.       grew tip, I tried my best tO grow old,
ir tears,, for if you smile and hence I have not  taken as much
ars, naughty guil, you will care of myself as I could. Despite all


I

-dE BOOTI MAKEB F THE FFTH AVENUE.

precautions, you; have becopne a
eautiful yqung girl.much faster than I
could grow infirm., ene. comes it in
our quarter that people wonder, and
give themselves up to eqandeL., To an-
ticipate anoymce, to dissolve the miys-
tery, I am compeed&amp;t obo frank, 0e-
nevieve, you are eighiteeu and father-
less ; you need take to yourself a hus-
band, and I sought to kinwif in mak-
ing a choice I had no voice in the nat.
ter. That's all."
While the excited bootmaker was
progressing with his haransue, which
he had rehearsed for over a half day,
he strove to catch the expression of the
young girl's countenance ao the index
of her inclinations.
But Genevieve merely remarked that
it was an abrupt question.
"I have asked you to open your heart
to me," continued Christopker, harrow.
ed in mind as; c.onflicting, doubtop-
pressed him. "Iave courage and speak.
Is there no one whom you love suf.
ciently to honor him with your hand in
marriage. Speak fiiankly, Genevieve."
"Well,"; responded the girl, " since
you require me to speak frankly, Imust
say that tbgry e i.Q0  love--,---"
"Who is hey?" inquired Christopher,
the sweat st nding. on his brow, and
quivering at every joint with excite-
ment. "What sort, of a man is lie-..
young, handeome, or of what quality?"
"He is, young, handsome-very hand.
some, they say," .replied the maiden;
"and above all, he islearned and talent-
ed."
The countenance of the bootmaker
turned perfectly pale as he fabric of
his matrimonial castle crumbled into
thin air.
"Have you anything to ask ?" i u-
quired the maiden, blushing..
"No, that's enough," quoth Christo-
pher, excitedly; .then, suddenly recol
lecting hi.ngelf, he adiJed -"You hoaive
not mentioned his name."

"I Aare not," responded th girl, with
a shake of the ,ead.
"0 , heavens, Genevieve,", said the
bootmaker, with an air ofdesperation
" hlas your choice been auch an un
worthy one that your future husband is
too ignominious to be named ?"
"0, no, my dear friend,",tearfully re-
torte41Gensvieve, "Stephen Morand is
a most worthy, a most chivalrous .and
honorable man.",
"Stephen Mgrand t" and the artisan,
sighed, for mention of his name excited
en'otion qof both pain and joy. "Is he
aware of your choice ".      .
"Not at all," responded the maiden
enthusiastically ; "indeed. I can hardly
tell how my love begau... The care be',
stowed'upon me three years back by;
Dr. Morand originated a profound af
fection for him. When I became con-
valesdent, and before  could express
my gratittile in proper teraps, ho de-
parted on his European travels. Absent
in person'he was spiritually present;to
my ey s. Befoit me floated that tran-
~quil physiognomy, that sad and gene-
rous face, whbhi brought calmness to me
amid delirium' of fever. Possibly my
little head was too much troubled with
contemplation of a memory so affect-
ing"
The shoemaker could scarce restrain
confessing bin admiration with the gra-
titude so artlessly bestowed upon the
young physician.
"But when ,since two months," con-
tinued Genevieve, sadly, "I hve learn-
ed of his ret urn among us, my soul has
experienced  an untoward  vacancy.
VWhen I saw him pass by my window I
wasseized with a violent emotion, so
violent t that the world swam before my
yelib&amp;, and I seemed wafted to the
oAbies in fulness of joy. As I make this
avowal, I cannot conceal iromn you how
- my heart beats whed' I speak of hn -
how 1 tremble should you'condema this
love: for, my friend, should you have

TiE BOOT M4 l 1. li'FlF"Al J,

condetedthis=alliande, Inwoldhave
abandoned it, should it prove mhy
death.".
As Genevieve spoke in tremulous ac-
cents, with her eyes upon the floor, the
worthy bootmaker,' internally agitated,
had taken offkhis dress coat ahd dwist-
coat and replaced;. thet with hitordi-
nary working apparel
"Genevieve," said Christopherin a
tone of agitation, as he girded on is
apron again, "you are fight iunloving
him, very right."
"You approve of it," said the girl
and yet you 'Aied tears, bat,56 i
haps, I luitl bbrced to leavd jnoyo for;
ever. It is; therefore, impossible for me
to Imatry-la it not, my dear friend"

" Not at all, Genevieve,"
Christopher, disguising his emotion
"on the contrary, it shall take place,
for he is a husband adapted for you-
he is young, handsome and learned. I
will arrange the matter; but are you
sure you love him most truly ?"
"For three years past," returned- the
maiden, seriously.
"Then count upon me ; " and the
voice of thesatigap  ,ted.
"Thanks, thanks, dear father," quoth
Genevfd4e  dt tis if_$dn il allow
p' t  e py e othend of fatheid"
"Allow -you,"sald thy boot iekr,
"it Is tt1 of sanctity.
%A         A1
riS'  a1 +* '5f~       i

!  ''
4  t  '
i  7{      ; '

Y      ''. y
A    ?  It t* - ' f  1p. '1A

t
IV   !
i                        Y ;
f            s                  Ca
+r         t
C
x       ,         !                          j     A
1 i83
wd
''                                .,
, ,
.  .
,           F

i, c
r 't    t '          _    s              [r  l#       e     [ [      t
F '                                            '4             "
h           _ .    d'             r
?          ,                               4
{                                 5          t    [ [          r    ' A
1                      ,
.                }
i'_     1.           V       k,      -

I


I

precaut'
beautiful

Tom: BOOT WAKER OF T~JI1,FYIFTU AEUE.

CHAPTER XT.
THE;fWfIEL OF FOnTUN_ L
"How, 'atupi fool, to think that she
could be -n love with such s-you I Yes,
poor dupe of vanity, let zn  enyself
as others see me, with my coarse fea-
tures, squab form and horny hands!"
Mr. Christopher Last placed himself
before the looking glass, and, after sur-
veying himself a dozeif times or more,
arrived at the conclusion that he was
no beau, but decidedly a boor Then
he consoled himself with the reflection
that Genevieve would ever regard her-
self as his daughter, which would be
honor enough.
"Poor Genevieve," soliloquised the
bootmaker, in a vain endeavor to dis-
pel the clouds oppressing his spirit ;
"you shall be happy."
. "Boss, here's the boot of the judge,
next door, it wants half soling," quoth
the shoemaker's apprentice, as ho en-
tered the shop, when, observing that
Christopher had discarded his fine;
clothes, he ejaculated -" What's hap-
pened, boss, to make such a change in
your looks?"
Christopher took the boot, threw it
listlessly into his work basket, and,
^with a few gruff words, walked sharply
down the avenue.
" That funny, any how," murmured
Nicholas; "boss is as put on his fine
clothes to stay in 4 doors, and his apron
to go out -doors."
41

And while Mr. Sharp 'was endea or
ing .to solve this domestic misery;' he
was suddenly aroused from his-medita-
tions by the entry of the 'banker Ber-
nard, bearing in his hands sumo seiP't
of printed paper, which torthe aippven-
tice looked;like enlarged bank notes,
"Is Christopher in?" said the banker
gaily ; "his fortune's made,.my friend;
y,'s, -sir. I tell yon. the bulls are always
"t don't know much about a butcher's
shop," replied Nicholas.
You . don't understapd," sai4' the
ban k #ettishly ;;"11lgo  re t ,wppgs3il
e citement-eyeryt   g y'n aup4,al-
most out of sight - it is gpig u[;pn
ngais~iil~going, anIg mad  suckp  .
chases-stock for mere nothing, and
now worth above five hundred. Petro-
leum, sir, always risky at short went
firm at long, and I have secured stock
in the most reliable flowing companies;
you hear?"
"Yes, I do hear," mutter( d Mr. Strap;
but what's short, and what's long?'
"The fact is, that a regular fever has
broke out," said the banker; "oil is the
only thing people will touch, and as
each well strikes stock runs from zero
to the clouds. Yes, Nicholas, it seems
to me that all Wall street is floating
about in a big balloon."
"I'd like to see it," ejaculated the
apprentice incredulously.
"I Invested Mr. Last's entire funds,"
observed Bernard, blandly.
"And what's the boss got to show for
them ?" inquired Nicholas.
" Shares of stock that yesterday cost
ten dollars and to-day will sell at one
hundred !" replied the banker; "it was
a brilliant stroke, Nicholas, and bought
on time. I carry them myself."
The apprentice stared at the man of
finances in stupid amazement, for the
language of Wall street was as empha-
tically an unknown tongue to hhu as
was that front which Joe Smith tran-
slated the b;ble.

THE BOOT MA1 E O THE FIFrii AVENUE.
But Nicholas was'tooafirdd   iindi  "Wh     re these papes?
vidual to couress his igitorancdhtso,1after the col let testily.
fa#rg the' banker'ith   series of  "Certideates of stock," replied, the
hasii ntuand lios, he' ended of is ob- banker "whch you can sell firash
sevatiohi bg giviiig'i   i   vo ,nt rap  own; but I must attend the second
on the back, accompanied byn oener- biard, o good day, Cinstophle, and
getic exIlWiiiation of "fldlif for duo!"  may your good luck continue."
"I can't wait 1ogt,"' uoti    e thc 41'r6 man  f business tried not a
banker,gimin   the eerifflte  the mol et 6#er, but 4darted' ihrongh the
apprentice; "  'hike ietatund nfor my door Vitt that peculiairly brisk tread
conamissiou the $800 ard' ier6 is the atd nervo s istep which is attained only
yield of our speuiation, $16-0;00, in by man of volatile habits.
one hundred'certi Utes,aften shares  Mr  Last'I 4   nperplexity, stood
each, $100 par-yeiider tid " '"  gazing at theliN i  iknure, i tzile
The apprentice, acafticites in his hands, the very image
Theappentcealarmed attbeng the,
custodiiniu o' so vasi aiiit znt, per- ofbewildemenit.
emptoriABdeelided c'priehendirg au - I '"What in the name of thunder  b'
thing which iiiight fncurhe chance off Bernard been talking about I" Imuter-
responsibility.'  ,                 ed the boo'tnaker, partially awakening
"Then vail Christojher, for'Y'i in a from his stn or.;
hurr:," qotlBarntd.               "W' 4  8lh e 'sags you arc rich, bosi,"
"Ho wotdn't e    ne                  atklich~iis;'significantly i  "ie
down town.' :;,      '.  g         'expl4ned it to i ii- -fu're Worth de
"Then ell i, lsdau ter,0    .must' hundrd'toitusand'dois!"r
be going.' *                          "cYOu nt-o'ai us ," i' torted thearti-
S,1'TwontrO yo  any good&amp; ; but 'to san,'losirig histenoe:  ;
oblige you, 'll calilier."            "Am  1, boss ?"rdjoied hI ir. Strap,
But bebrehe had me'to'erforniis who paid 'ery little ;ttention- to' his
errand, theiboo nakt±'enteed'thfe shop, employer's yagAries,'beecause Inuder-
greatly refreshed by liisalk;cool, eitlm stand those things and you do't.  e's
and collected in'hikdbmeaudr ,Andi with been in themarketan4 sebr thb bul,
few'traes'of his fdm i, eroiteeit,  gd they have'up~ and down, you kh .
"My- dea.Ciirstoph&amp; ;'" ekelaimed The fact °is9,'those pieces of pat ier
the banker;delkirii ad attoiished aiti- worth a thousand dollars."'
san by the-"land, "ut- bspeci tonlas,' "How many aier there ?"
proved  d i    {I hen.rd. 76  1k e   "One hundred ; tlh t's what MIr Bo-
heard 6f th f'tei"              iaard said-there w is"- '-
, "And l e ,ought ail this with ons;hu  -
"I-no I'' responded Last ; " opt I'm  dAnd i.ght dllars t
otafraid FI'a }boon vaccint d;ha  4o and.nighty dollars?  h
ntecils a d dobe   saedrd ;had  " Of cone le did," siq N cholaa,
the chills, and bil't ae ur'  airy y ,,th fetter tQocount t1nuibe&amp; of
feveiru                              e tele ents, spread tthem out on the
"Pooh !"retorted'B'rh1d}, e 0 it' counter.
cally-; "tli~ tunalaFeb'dern~ic;Tii1ii.  "c orthyattheyrdy 'e,  tted
Here it fr saii~fyduf ltrk sp  Ohrisieih to himselfas he resumed
passes ni~  dt it#ldi' 4xderatios. his angt on his work 'ln'alie ha -
You are iii4, ~.hrrtj  , 'very rih- mencked his ftcculstonmCge iY - Wil d0
YOU can gin a do5Vr to you odanglier, s;;me thing in the wiWAo iua'n
and marry'%W'id'tfe i-oudest ads- Ihappy, and that's rrbout all i wa{o
-ocat who flourishes about on." "' is  now-a4."       "       '

9
s                     '.l
*       1   0.
t                   y
i           i
t
rAti  i,
ti
1
fi
v               4       1
3t
t
4          i
a
It
'       7    S
t3
tiilr          fir,
f         X41
z
{            v   ,
L
ip
f
,i
5     Y
3
a
t


'-w-

THE BO.1i. .KE    OF T   IEFTH AVElUE.
," ejaculated Nicholas,}with an.  "tbhe ,said phere was sonsBing
.spression' of astonishment op.his un- wrorg abopt your head.",
couth featur a, "going to work;now-that  ' "ot  bout, the6bead '1egoth theobhQgt-
you're rioh."      mkerpily, " l at's thesamemaausel.
"Why nodt" retorted the mechanic; 1y thg wp, tbere an  apge i your
"I'm used tio'it; but where's niy ham- complaint-?'}
mer?"                               "Alas,ym;Nnd friend ajaar,s with nle
And while looking after ,t is uensil, alter not fob the hatter."
he overttrned the,,pile of  egifiesa,s  " ey,gto,alLig.hahagge !"  3
turning then widecast vpyr thl.floor.;  "Thefeat.sof 4lladin are long since
"Hullo !"shouted Nicholas "what past, neyprte ~bg enacted."
.re you after"                     "We'}a ee appa t that," said the arti-
"Looking for my hammer," replied sanz a ie tool g  his bundle of stock
the lootmaker pnqquiily.           certifigaes-"what's that heap of rub-
"who is ill, that you sentfor me?" bish worth ,'".N
inquired Dr. Stephen Viorand, entering  "Petroju.n stock !", ejaculged the
tie shop hurriedly, "iis rpot Gene- Physiciar in anement. "Matropoli.
vipve ?" . . .                  a tamqExcelgior, ev ry company at par.
., e personalaparance of the yng I have just passed an hour$ 4e Stock
"physician aEsurediy justide4, the euli- Exchange. A ppe t feyer rages with
of' both tlhe botmaker aurd his respect to oil stpks, ,1d tlhey told me
daughter. He was tp'1, .finely.forpued, that shareswere  par; therfore this
fptrician-like -casA of coyntesance, paper is worth a thousand dollars."
with a high forpesed, an4, p spieri"g "o yquthinkyufan bange one of
eye. The entire expession of $o9 man these into a thousand in greenbgcks l"
was such as to besesik the dignity, a d  br            imore perplexed
respect of his-felloWs.  'than ever as to ,qwipreheid ing theme-
"Yes,Doetor Stephen," apologetically thQdhpro ymMr. Bernard&amp; had 'suc.
inteeposed the apprentice, " I sen1 for ceed  inicomplishingsno formidable
yo,. " it ain't :Miss Genevieve that's a finappijl mizqql~e. a-- :
.siel sbut Polly wantsttending too~ I ""Why, certainly,'  eponded Dr. Mo.
rather game bosa s wsqts -setting tight rand, "and probably a deal more."
Likewise, Ever sibemor'ning his head's "And yesterday, Irthink," remarked
been turned;"  A                   thte lhootmalme witha ulght-nile,'"you
"Get out; you simpleton," exclaimed observed that ( few thoisand dollars
the artisan angrily..             woul4 render you the happiest of muor'
"Yes, boss," calmly returned the ap- tals. You are ewel~ 9suyed upon thae
prentia'. And-as he retired tb theater, head t".  a.
lhe uttered exlatmatiens of condolenee, " Yes, ertainly; ;but where is th
that so worthy an Individual as his money to com~ from" ,,
master should cohre to a conditioaof "Well, take ten of these pieces o
lunae through the sudden possession paper," said the shoearker; "suffer
of a very considerable fortune. pgt devil tq ppy one whoshas saye
" Well, my 'friend, " inquired the the life of a ,bgipg the dearest to h'
young physician, after the apprentice heart, to borrow this tra$' ing amount
bad left the shop; " what is this that which can be returned whenever it i
Nicholas mentions?"               convenient. Accept, I l eg of you
"0, nothingw- mere moonshine -the your future depends upon t; therefoi
MeItw's direamaing."               hesitate not.".

1

THE BOOT MAKER OF THE FIFTH AVENUE.

"My dearest friend," said the-physi-
cian with emotion, "it is a seaerifice
which I cannot allow you torinakeL4-this
deprivatioii of a handsome fortune shall
be no work of mine."
"It is but a drop, in the bucket, re.
sponded the artist n calmly, taking up
the bundle and showing his friend the
immense amount of shares; "ydtt see
that I am no very smallstockholder.v"
"Is' this no dream I"f murmured the
physician, as.his eyes fairly glistened at
the sight of so much wealth--" whence,
all this fortune ?"
"It has been fairly gained," resumed
Christopher blandly  "I have} ben
smitten by the oil fever, and haverOcowv'
ered from its effects. You-peree'ivethat
thin wheel of hazard favored me. , Will
you persist in refusing to participate'ir
my happiness I"V
"No ; I will accept your kindness."
"Thanks, thanks," said the bootmak-
er ; "you have taken a loadfrom off my
breast, which gratitude badinspired
there.";d                         -
"It is I," rejoined the physician, after
a pause, "who should thank you, tvho
have restored to me hope, yeseveuiife
itself."
"We are quits then," remarked the,
shoemaker, and he chuckled to himself
at the idea of the still richer treat he
hand in store for Stephen.
"Here then have I fortune, 1eury-for
a day at least," quota Dr. Morand4 en-
thusiasticalIy; " I would have g s.
my life in exchange for this unexpected
blessing, for with this fortune I can ap-
proach her upon terms of equality with'
the greatest of my compeers."
'Her? where is she TI" interrogated
Christopher sharply.
"Pardon me, my dear friend," said
the doctor with animation; "but I have
not told you. A woman worthy of ad-
miration, who, with all her renown,
beauty and riches.appeared suddenly to
me, overwhlne4 ts I:s}-with trouble

6l

and obscurity,' like a meteor in the
darkness of midnight.
ThiWorthy shoemaker,aghasttatthisa
confession of the y shoemake'&amp; al6ve,
sighed, for it pained him grievouslythrt
he  hom Genevieve loved should bethe
slave much less the suitor of any other
woman.
"I will narrate the story of our love,"
continued the physician, growing nibre
and more enraptued;""I will teil yah
hdm and where we met ; how Since'the
day I first saw herlabor  has been irk-
some, and I rest neither day nornight.
Since that moment I have experienced
but one ambition  but one need; and
that is, the sight of this] angel.' And to
you I will owe this happiness."
"And do you really love her?" asked
Christopher, sonMwhat abruptly
"Can you ask me such a question,"
replied:Stephen emphatically, "whose
whole life has but ,one aim, but one
thought."
"Poor Genevieve'!- murmured the
artisan to himself
"Yes, my friend," resumed the phy=,
sician, "now that I can appear in her
presence, every ibitant that has passed
away appears to nme as a century Of titre-
wasted, of happiness lost."
Dr. Morandtbok his hat and afose to
depart; but th thought of his liga
tion again retarded; to r6ie 4 e
sions &amp;,gratitude;which the'hohettine-
chaniie~ccived with a heavy heart
"Genevie're, " sofiloquised Chkisto-
pher, after Stephen had taken his' der
partte, "you are not more hapfy than
I. am,"
Misfortunes ,never come singly ; so
says the ancient adage ;' and Christo-
pher had scarce recovered from the
shock of Stepher's confession, than his
repose was broken by the'sudden entry
of Nicholas, down whose cheeks the
tears coursed in rapid rivulets.
Mr. 'Strap was the very picture of
(ief.

L

i
'P
i
t
z! a
,
i
S
' il,
i
t

- ,            -


64       THE BOOT MAKER OF THE FIFTH AVENUE.

"floss," said the apprentice, with
Laing accents, "the footman of our
negibor, the judge's lady, has comefor
the dog, whom he heard barking in our
cellar."
"Well, then, give itto him," respond-
ed the bootmaker.
"No, boss, I won't, because --"
"Because what ?"
"The parrot is dead."
"Poor Polly !" said the artisan, with
a sudden movement of surprise ; is the
poor bird killed-Polly dead !"  . i
"Yes, she is, boss ; I had the nonor of
receiving her last sigh."
"Poor Tolly," soliloquised Christo-
pher, with a moan; "she was so kind,
so gay. Ske was the joy of our poor
shop, and now she is. dead. It is as
plain as day, all happiness has flown
from our house as wealth entered the
door. Everything I loved has gone from
mne-Genevieve, Stephen, and now this
pretty pet. Poor Polly ! You will say
to the footman ---"
"I have already given him his an-
swer. boss."      -
"What was it ?"
"I told him I would give him his dog
when he brought back life to our poor
parrot. He said he would go for a po-
Uioeman, and I told him that he would
Aind the dog hanging by the neck behind
the door when he came."
"You have done right, Nicholas."
"To make matters sure, I'll hang the
puppy right off, for fear somebody would
come.".
"No, Nichol ;, Let's w ain turn the
matter over."
CHAPTER XII.
MOTHER AND DAUGHTER.
It was decidedly fortunate for thelife
of Carlo that this clemency ruled th
council charged with his fate, for but
few' p'tes elapsed before the storf
j'I r ed.and there entered thesho

no less a distinguished visitor than the
Honorable Mrs. Littleton, proprietress
of the-threatened animal, who, finding
the mission of the footman a decided.
failure, condescended to personally in-
tercede in behalf of the pet spaniel.
The judge's lady came into the store
with as much haughtiness as on the
yesterday, and passed directly to the
proprietor without deigning to notice
the apprentice, although ho had been
expressly named as the arch-conspira-.
tor against Carlo's life and safety.
" Does my presence astonish you,
neighbor ?" observed the lady, as she
remarked the expression of surprise
greeting her advent. "The conversa-
tion we had yesterday has given me a
gp odopinion of you. I have institq -
ed inquiries concerning you, and I as-
certain that you are a most estimable
man, very popular, and liked by your .
customers. On this account I have made
no scruple in coming to you in pers-
You had a pet bird which my dog hi.
killed. I have, perchance, unintention-
ally, caused you a poignant sorrow. In
what way can I modify it?"
"You have been very kind to take all
this trouble, madame," responded the
bootmaker politely ; "but, what have
you to offer me ? Not money. I have
more than enough of that already."
"If money is of so little account,"
rejoined Mrs. Littleton, as a smile illu-
minated her sadeountenance, "can there
I be nothing which you may desire and it
be within my power of gift V"
"I ask for nothing, madame," said
Christopher, sadly; "there is nothing I
long for. I am an unhappy man. Well,
when one is deserted of everything he
loves, he feels miserable."
"To use such language," remarked
e the lady, by way of conversation, "one
e should have a profound sorrow, which
a cannot originate in the loss of a bird,
e dear as it was to you." ,
S   "Yp, e a w',yeied4 th9e 1 .

maker, "there is something else which
affects me and renders :ne very un-
happy."
"Un bosomu yourself, my honest friend,"
quoth the lady, the memory of her own
sorrows rendering her sympathetic.
"Yesterday we were enemies, to-dan
when you are unhappy, we are friends;
at least, permit me to consider you as
one,"
"I appreciate your goodness," said
Christopher, touched at the kindness
and coiidescension of his aristocratic
neighbor ; but I fear it is not within
your pe wer to lessen my misery."
"Who knows," rejoined Mrs. Little-
ton ; "but I must know the causic."
"In a few words, madame, you shall
have it," said the bootmaker, cogitat-
ing as to the true method of enunciat-
ing his sorrows. "In the first place I
have adopted a little girl-a love of a
child--"
"The beautiful creature I have often
times seen laughing, dancing and sing-
ing around i " inquired the judge's
lady.
" Yes, madame, the very same. I
passed as her father," replied Christo-
pher, with a sigh. "I loved her as if it
was really so ; but to-day, to my pain
and anguish, I am compelled to part
with her !"
"How comes that?" interrogated Mrs.
Littleton, with interest.
"Because," returned the bootmaker,
unable to repress his emotion, "she has
grown up, and gossips have taken hold
of her for scandal. You see I have not
augmented -in old age as she has done
in grace and beauty, and because, you
must know, rather than have the tongue
of scandal raised against that innocent
angel, I think it better that we two
should separate."
"Noble and disinterested man!" very
warmly spoke the judge's lady, " how
kind and considerate to guarantee the
purity of that young dependent crea-
,ture beyond reach of suspicion."

"And, moreover," continued Christo-
pher, warmed into confidence by the
lady's sympathetic condolence, " there
is another point vWhich grieves me, but
which I am almost ashamed to disclose
to you -
"What can that be?" inquired the lady
encouragingly.
"Well, madame," responded the boot-
maker, with a blush, " imagine that I
had the vanity to believe that when she
found out that she was' not my daugh-
ter, she might conclude to become nmy
wi- , but the idea was silly, very silly,
was it not, madam?"
The lady smiled, for she detected the
fact of the bootmaker's love.
"Yes, madam, it was very silly ; but.
then people often live on stupidities ;"
and Christopher sighed audibly ; " be-
side, now that she has learned that I
am not her father, some steps must be
taken to ensure her security for the fu-
ture, not so ?"
"I admire your foresight," returned
Mrs. Littleton.
'But ' hat am I to do with the dear
creature ?"
"Have you any objection to placing
her temporarily in a' convent, where she
can be treated as my daughter by one
of my relatives ?"
"Alh, madame," said the bootmaker,
gratefully, "if such a thing be advisable
and for the best, it would be a kindness
to do it."
"It would be for the best assuredly,"
responded the judge's lady, "and I will
give you a line of introduction for the
superior of the convent of the --,
Miss Desmond."
"Miss Desmond !" ejaculated the ar-
tisan, in surprise.
"Yes, my aunt," responded the lady,
"who, being the superior of $he sisters,
is naturally unmarried, and preserves
her nmidcen name, Miss Margaret Des-
mond, in accordance with the wish of
oar family."

1

16'

THE BOOT MAKER OF, THE FIFTH, AVENUE.

I


F'f

66           THE BOOT MAKER OF
"Margaret ! that is not the name!"
resumed the bootmaker, earnestly.
"There are other Miss Desmonds-
perchance you may know some."
"Assuredly."
And the lady smiled at the artisan's
importunity.
"Henrietta?" again inquired Chris-
topher-"do you know her ?"
" Henrietta Desmond," replied the
judge's lady, Axing her keen, sharp eye
upon the working man-"I am Henri-
etta Desmond !"
"You, madam," ejaculated Christo-
pher, in wonderment.
"Doubtlessly," returned the lady; "but
why this expression of astonishment ?"
" Pardon me, madam,"    continued
Christopher, apologetically, "and I
never to dream of such a thing - how
stupid I've been !"
"What means this singular behavior?"
demanded Mrs. Littleton.
"Simply," responded the artisan, " I
have been hunting after you for fifteen
long and anxious years-that's all."
x After me ?" and the lady was lost in
bewilderment.
"Next door neighbors," moralized the
bootmaker ; "and neither of us had airy
suspicions as to the other. No wonder
you interested yourself in the fate of the
little one. It was the cry of nature ;
and there can't be stifling of the dic-
tates of blood."
"What mean you ?" exclaimed Mrs.
Littleton ; " speak, and explain the
mystery of your yQrds-speak plain."
"Do you remember the forest near
the village of Beauview ?"
"Beauview?" reflected the lady, "yes;
yet but long, long ago."
"In that piece of wood," quoth C'ris-
topher, with marked emphasis, "fifteen
years ago, you parted for the last time
with Mary Vernon."
"Mary, my foster sister !" interrupt-
ed the lady, nervously, "to whom I en-
trusted my-more than life."

r1

THIE FIFTH AVENUE.
"A-a-," and Christopher hesitated,
while he bent his manly glance upon
the features of the fair one, "ta child,
born out of wedlock !"
"Yes, a child-my child !" ('jaculatgd
Mrs. Littleton, in undisguised anxiety ;
'"now you aught of that child-where
is she?"
"Madam, accident threw me upon the
road when the unfortunate Mary V r-
non was murdered," said Christopher,
with a sigh-"with her dying strength
she committed the child to my keep-
ing !"
"0, my long lost child!" moaned the
lady, desperately, " how many tears
have Ished over my poor little one's
hapless fate "-"
" Silence, madam," interrupted the
artisan, pointing significantly to Gene-
vieve, who entered the apartment, but
paused abruptly the moment she per-
ceived the lady of the judge convers-
ing with her presumed parent.
No sooner had Mrs. Littleton cast her
eyes upon the blooming girl, than the
recognition of her nativity, became an
obvious necessity.  °
"That is her, Is it not ?'' wispered-
the jude's lady to Christopher.
" Yes, madame; but do not betray
your secret."
"My child-my long lost child !'1'inur-
mured the judge's lady, with diffielty
restraining herself from rushing into
her arms.
"Madam, hush, " said Christbpher,
warningly; "can you publicly ivow that
girl to be your daughter? Will the
Honorable Judge Littleton recognize her
as his offspring, or brand her as y6ir
bastard 7"
Mrs.' Littleton looked aghast. The
words of the bootmaker, although very
harshly expressed, conveyed a-strong
moral lesson.
Abashed, but not angered, the aristo-
crat accepted the rebuke of the ple-
biani, aud cast down her eybs, - fai

I

I

THE BOOT MAKER OF THE FIFTH AVENUE.                  67
least some untoward glances-might re- plied Genevieve, "tenderly, most ten-
veal prematurely the secret preying derly."
upon her very soul.                 "And should she ever be found ?" in-
"The judge's lady, our neighbor, Ge- quired Mrs. Littleton timidly, "could
nevieve," remarked Christopher to his you pardon her crime in abandoning
daughter, in his ordinary tone of voice, you ?"

"has come in search of her pet spaniel.
I have narrated to her, in course of con-
versation, that which I have previously
communicated to you, and she has been
pleased t6 take 'a great interest in us, in
you, Genevieve. She has even cnde-
scended to look out for some p lace
where you can go to --"
" Good heavens ! " ejaculated the,
young girl, alarme4_at-the idea ; "has
it become necessary for us to separate,;
to part from you?"
"13e assured, my dear girl," respond-
edthe judge's lady, with an accent of
sweetness, which ruin upon the heart
of Genevieve in exquisite melody, "that
if you desire it, you c.au remain with
this noble man, whom you have hereto-
fore and justly regarded as'your father.'
"Thanks, dearest madam, thanks,"
ejaculated the maiden ; "for he has been
my entire family; his tender affection
has almost made me forget that I mourn-
ed the absence of a mother's love."
"Yes, my poor child," remarked Mrs.
Littleton, with difficulty restraining her
emotion; "you'have grown up deprived
of the solicitous care, of the endearing
embraces of a mother. ° Perchance,
stung by her desertion, you may have
cursed her memory 1"
, "No, madam, " replied Genevieve,
with a burst of melancholy, "I thought
it her misfortune to be separated from a
child she-would love ---"
. "Yes, yes," rejoined the lady, sadly,
"it was her misfortune, my-"     .
"Have a care, madam," whispered
Christopher in a low tone of voice.
"Had you known your mother, would
you have loved "s
"With all the force of my soul," re-

"I have no reason to condemn my un-
fortunate mother, " responded Gene-
vieve, "could I ever be happy enough
to embrace her, I would throw myself
on my knees and pray her to forgive me
the agonies which she has experienced
since the unlucky day on which she was
forced to throw me on the mercies of
the world."4
"2oble sentiment," ejaculated Chris-
topher proudly. "It is I, madam, who
has trained that celestial creature."
"Ai, my friend," whispered Mrs. Lit-
tleton to the meehanic, "how can I ever
repay the 4ebt of gratitude due you I"
"Genevieve," quoth the shoemaker,
anxious to divert the conversation into
another channel, "we must not detain,
Mrs. Littleton any longer. Go, dearest,
and seek her little dog-her pet,"
- "Yes, father," responded the girl, in-
stantly obeying her mandate ; while
upon the ears of the artisan the fami-
liar acknowledgment of paternity rang
as the dying notes of a passing melody.
CHAPTER XIII.
MATER NAL LOYE.
"0, my daughter, my daughter !" ex-
claimed the judge's lady, as, relieved
from the presence of the young woman,
she gave herself up to a paroxysm of
emotion; " what power has maintained
me in resisting parental affection to this
point I know not. For fifteen years I
have bewailed her loss. For ten years
has my destiny been linked to that of a
w lau, not. her father-ten years of use-
less researches, vain tears and heart-
.  reudin.  - " ..'

f


THE BOOT MAKER OF THE FIFTH AVENUE.

when in my presence, I am debarred
from clasping her to my bosom, of cov-
ering her with my kisses --''
"Well, well," interposed Christopher,
reflecting that lie never once indulged
in the luxury of a paternal embrace --
"you may kiss her; but then don't tell
her who you are ; for, see you, it will
not do to avow this child at this precise
juncture of time."
" That is most true, my worthy
friend."
" Especially," resumed the shoemak-
er, "as she has not yet attained her
eighteenth year-at her birth you were
unmarried ---"
"Alas !" interposed the lady, with a
heart-drawn sigh, "the father of my
child died in a distant land, far away
from her, from me, and from the land of
his birth - an exile from family and
country."
"Mourn not," quoth the artisan con-,
solingly, "she has found another who
loves her to distraction, and we will
both watch over her, will we not, mad-
am 1" And Christopher bowed respect-
fully.
"By the blessing of heaven, we will,"
quoth the judge's lady ; and the proud
aristocrat took the plebian artisan very
warmly by the hand.
"Hush !" observed 'Christopher, with
a gesture indicative of secrecy, as Ge-
nevieve re-entered the apartment, bear-
ing the little spaniel in her arms.
So sudden was the entry of the girl,
and so lost way Mrs. Littleton in cou-
templation of the charms of the young
girl, that she neglected to withdraw her
hand from the grasp of Christopher.
-Jow, my honorable lady," said the
bootmaker, noticinZ this omission on
the part of his visitor, "is it because he
returns you a pet dog that you press the
hand of a mechanic ?"
"She must love that pretty spaniel,
must she not, Genevieve 1"
"The judge's lady has spoken such

rI

kind words as to my poor mother, that
I know her heart to be overflowing with
love. Here, madam," said the young
girl, presenting the animal, "here is
your pet-it has not been harmed by
being with us."
The Lion. Mrs. Littleton advanced to
receive her spaniel; but' as she ap-
proached Genevieve, the young girl
failed not to remark that her entire
frame was convulsed by a trembling
motion.
" See, Genevieve," dexterously re-
marked Christopher, to account for
their visitor's palpable excitement -
"how affected the lady is' at refinding
her pet !" Then, pointing to Genevieve
on the sly, he added-" I give you joy,
madam, at finding a lost treasure."
The judge's lady recovered her com-
posure, but cast p longing eye upon the
'maiden, which Christopher perceived
and comprehended.
"Well," said t'he bootmaker, signifi-
oantly,"as you love your pet so tenderly,
let us not hinder you from caressing it;
and to reward Genevieve for her care of
it, please give her one--one little kiss."
"Certainly, to please you !" and the
proud lady, with tearful eyes, extended
wide her arms to court the embrace of
the damsel.
"Me !" quoth Genevieve, hesitating
to approach; "will madame please - "
"Yes, yes, she asks to kiss you ;" and
Christopher gently pushed his ward
into the arms of the lady, who pressed
tho girl to her bosom, 'and implanted a
succession of rapid kisses upon her ala-
baster brow.
"You re weeping, madam," remarked
Genevieve, with evident amazement, as
she dissengaged herself from the lady's
embrace.
'I weep i" rejoined Mrs. Littleton,
attempting to disguise her emotion.
"Certainly, you are weeping," quoth
the bootmaker, calmly, "and who can
blame you ? It is funny how women do

680

THE BOOT MAKER OF THE FIFTH AVENUE.                   69
love these four legged animals, just as      CHAPTER. XLV.
if they werechildren. ci "               AN OPERATIC SOEE.
The rattle of a carriage and the bustleO           I
of its stoppage attracted the atter.Iion  "Flora certa nly receives well," quoth
of Christopher, who went to the store an elegantly dressed female of the opera
door and as quickly returned, atd wiiS- to another of the' same class; "but I
pered in the ear of his visitor.    wonder wh'o she has  on the string for
"Madame," he said, recovering frot his ruin iin these haleyori-days."
the impropriety of his behavior, " it is  Assembled within'the gaily dedbrat-
the carriage of your husband; and much ed saloon of the rcignringqlueen of the
as I appreciate the honor due us by opera, numerous male leaders of the ton
your remaining here, allow me to sug- and ladies of ie operatic profession
gest that the judge may be astonish- wer enjoying themselves--souie in con-
ed --"                              versation, arid others at, the various
"O, yes," said the lady, alive to the gaming tables, gracing the apartment.
terror of his remark, "I wiljoin himIt was one of those evening receptions
instantly. I will not say farewell to given by the momentary lionflss of' the
you, dear child, for this is but our first fashionmble world, at whose feet were
interview - we will meet again, and bowing the would-be rulers of the fash-
often."                            ionable world.
With a rapid movement, the judge's  "In faith," interrupted a fair song
lady, with averted eyes, passed through stress, "I don't know'the victim.'
the shop door, unwilling to bestow a '"Then I will tell you, ladies," said
-arting glance upon Genevieve, whom  Mr. Marcy, whose elegant costume be-
she left in the centre of the apartment, lied the rumor of his hopeless bank-
still holding the little spaniel, -nominal ruptey.
object of her regard.-4 "Who is the individual ?" inquired
"What a splendid woman !" exclaim- the exquisite Vanderip.   -;
ed Christopher, enthusiastically.    "Listen, aind I'll speak," interposed
"0, yes," said Genevieve; "but she Mamrcy. "Kinow ye that for fifteen days
has gone away without the dog !"    past all tie ton have been excited to as-
"J'u t so," said the bootmaker, same- certain who is the golden bird which
w h at perplexed, "I see it-the joy at our charming friend Flora is engaged in
titding her little pet has been so great, plucking with her dainty 'white hand9.
,N es, so great, that she has left it behind Some say he is---"
r r ;" then perceiving that Genevieve - "The president of a national bank ?"
A1118 () the point of following their visi-  "The editor of a metropolitan jour-
r..', he arrested her progress with the nalt"
. i"r t ai u-."Never mind, Genevieve,  "Neither," said Marcy, with a shake
take charge of the animal."    of the head, "not rich enough."
suit ing the action to his words, the  "A retired common councilman ?"
bhn.mcst botmaker took the little pet in  "Amember of the assembly  "
his arims and started off to convey it to  "Better still," remarked Marcy, "but
hi,, neighbor.                      not yet up to the mark."
"'Poor child I" quoth Christopher, as  "A county supervisor I"
he cast a glance upon the maiden. "now  "A petroleum director 1"
m it I have found her mother, I must  "A truce to guesses," quoth Marcy,
rrender to her the one she loves."  in an authoritative tone or voice, "save

_1
I


70      -THE BOOT MAKER OF THE FIFTH AVENUE.

to this gentleman.. Now, :sir, what say
you, Mr. Vane ?"
The person addressed was none other
than the stranger whp had so uncere-
moniously visited the shop of Christo-
pher Last, but who now appeared under
the name of Delaniore amid thiscom-
pany, clad in, the heiglht of fashion, a
species of monarch amid the knot of
fast men and petroleum millionaires,
who graced the parlor of the ruling di-
vinity in envious rivalry..
"I think," rejoined the stranger, with
a sardonic mile, "that our considerate
hostess could ruin the whole lot com-
bined."
"But I think that all of you are mis-
taken," said Bernard..
"Perhaps it is you, old money bags?"
observed Marcy.
"The curmudgeon has too many mil-
lions;" interposed the stranger for even
the scie ntific Flora to gnaw her way
through them."
" To conclude conjectures," said a
handsome young lady of the opera,
"who then has Flora on the. high road
to financial perdition ?"
"Now,-my friends," said the hostess,
advancing to the centre of the group of
friendly scandalizers, "X will explain
the mystery. The only one I am ruin-
ing is-is myself i"
The entire crowd looked at their en-'
tertainer in astonishment.
"It is an extravagant idea, is it not?"
continued the prima donna, lightly
shaking her long, glistening curls,bound
to her brow by a diadem of diamonds
and precious stones; "but what better
 want you? I am tired of being adored
-I desired to be bored a little, and that
is the cause of my ruin. I was discon-
tented with being simply loved. I. loved
in turn, and from that fatal hour I have
gone on devouring my funds."
"That's an idea worthy of a tragic
queen," remarked Marcy.

"And all this sacrifice," interposed
Vanderip, with a sneer, "on account of
that medical popinjay, Dr. Morand."
"As well as upon my own," retorted
the lady of the house.
"It would not be on mine," said Van-
derip, curtly, "that you would conde-
scend to be guilty of similar extrava-
gant caprices."
"You may believe it!" and the musi-
cal laugh of Flora rang far above the
silvery tones of the female group en-
circling her.
"What has he done more than the
rest of us i inquired a beau,
"0, nothing," replied the opera dame,
"only he has abuse and wit,"
"Has he struck oil?" interposed
Marcy, with a mocking laugh.
"It requires neither sense nor wit to
do that," answered Flora.
"Brt we have inexhaustible stores of
both those unsaleable commodities,"
remarked Vanderip, with an affected
accent.
"Possibly so," rejoined the operatic
divinity, "and they will ever remain
unsaleable in your hand, for you never
show their publicity."
"The soiress, suppers and sociables
Flora has given, must cost her a hand-
some sum," observed a charmnwg come-
dienne.
"Zuline, you arq right," returned the
hostess, who had overheard the remarks
- " but I have dreamt of love as it
should be -not in gilded halls and
brown stone mansions, but in a cottage,
a lowly cottage by a mountain stream,
and to that end I am selling off all my
town and other property."
"What a prodigal thought," remark-
ed Mr. Marcy.
"It was my superfluous jewelry," re-
sumed Madame Flora, with an air of
nonchalance, "that paid for our first
week of revelry. Eight evenings ago,
we consumed at supper my boudoirand
parlor furniture ; and now my horses.

I

carriages and plate are dancing merrily
around us. In fact, this is a farewell
festivity at this mansion, for this very
morning I sold it."
"Yo 4 are crazy, Flora," exclaimed
Marcy-"mad as a hare."'
"It is nevertheless true," 'observed
Bernard, the banker ; 'and that is the
reason why a little while ago I told you
you were all mistaken."'
"Well," ejaculated Marcy, "it is a
brilliant idea, this rural one. I ow gor-
geously we will patronize Flora in her
cottage home."
"It is so lovely,.so divine,.so pictur-
esque this being in the :country," re-
marlked a young operatic,syren who al-
*Nys sang the shepherdesses.
'Especially when it rains," observed
"Dogs it ever rain, in the country "
inquired the hostess, languidly.
"Never, never," observed Mr. Marcy,
exultingly; "when the ground is slightly
dry it is watered by troops of pretty
shepherdesses, in silk petticoats and
embroidered jackets, who water the
earth with silver plated watering pots
adorned with green ribbons."
"Bai! " muttered Flora, moodily ;
"rain is a nuisance when one has no
carriage, whether town or country."
'What a falsifier it was who said -
'lucky at cards, unlucky with women,"'
quoth Dr. Morand, covering a gaming
table at the other end of the apartment
around which had been congregated the
most inveterate of fashionable game-
ste' s. "I have been playing ove;r an
hour-without the loss of a single dol-
lar, The proverb is false, is. it' not,
Madame Flora?7"
"Meu can test the capacity," remark-
ed the lady, coolly.
"In both capacit es I have been too
fortunate," said Stephen.
"You are a blessed individual," ob-
served Marcy,; "I, my dear fellow, can
never win, for I have nothing more to
lose."

TUE BOOT MAKER OF THE FIFTH AVENUE.    71

"Are you really a bankrupti"inquir-
ed, the physician.  -
"Nary a red!" respne    aMy] with... ~
a slang phrase
"A beautify i confession!" remarked
Delamore,,who had preserved a stolid
retineneo/of speech up to this moment.
"You are well aware that within eight
days will restore to , on ten times at
lefst more than you hive lost.
You !" "xclaimed the assembly.
4"I, myself," replied Vane, with an
affected pomposity.
"Is that true1"interrogated Bernard,
the banker, who was evidently a credi-
tor of the' bankrupt; " will Marcy be
able to liquidate 1"
"I will pay all his debts," declared
the stranger decisively.
"And who, pray," inquired the bank-
er Bernard, "is to pay all your liabili-
ties, Mr.-Mr. Delamore I think you
called yourself?"
"Yes, Delamore," said the stranger
with a smile ; "my dear fellow wait for
a little while longer. You wanttoknow
who it is who will have the honor of
liquidating my debts?"
"Precisely," responded the banker-
"that is the momentous question."
"You'd be astonished to hear, it, I
know you would."
"Perhaps I shall," returned the bank-
er, "therefore I want to know."
No one else but your honorable
self, Mr. Bernard."
"Me !" ejaculated Bernard, as he in-
dulged in a laugh.
"it is no laughing matter," resumed
the so-called Delamore, "it is a mere
matter of figures. how much, think
you, one hundred thousand dollars,
placed in able hands eighteen years ago,
ought to be worth to-day-how much,
my honest Bernard ?"
" One hundred thousand dollars in
eighteen years!" murmured the banker,
whose laugh subsided into an ejacula-
tion of wonder.


72       THE BOOT MAKER OF THE FIFTHAVENUE.        OF THE FIFTH AVENUE.

"According to my figures," returned
Delamore, pressing up his assault, "it
must be near upon five hunsdred thou-
sand, cli ?"
"Explain yourself, sir," observed the
banker in a low tone of voice, as hi
frame fairly shook from agitation of
mind. You may possibly be acquainted
with the parties who entrusted -"
"Silenice !" wit ispered Delanore, with
a imysterious gesture, 'IHere is neither
the place nor thyo time for an explana-
tion. I know all perhaps."
Befom e the banker could recover from
the sudden amazement into which he
had been thrown by the enig natical
language of the stranger, Dr. Morand
tappet him gently on the shoulder.
"Come, Bernard," said the physician,
"you are low spirited ; he joyous; life
is brief; and what is a banker good for
without setting an example of merri-
ment. By the way, Flora, is it not the
hour for supper,or my appetite deceives
me ?"
"Pardon a delay," remarked the host-
ess, with her serenest smile, but I await
the coming of a new guest-a distin-
guished stranger."
"-Who is lie 1" inquired Dr. Morand,
somewhat nervously.
"A Pennsylvania Dutchman, I be-
lieve," said the queen of the opera, and
a quiet leer twinkled in her fall black
eyes, "an arch-millionaire, who solicit-
ed an invitation in the most eccentric
of styles."
For the amusement of her company,
the fair prima donna read a note couch-
ed in the follov ing singular phraseo-
"M1.tdam : Rumor says that you in-
vite the most distiugnished eauty and
weath of ,the town. Having recently
sti tack oil on C n extraragatt scalerI ant
atile to devour one luutred thousand
dolturs a day. Can this not give me the
favor of your friendship?"
Yours, &amp;c."
" One hundred thousand dollars a
day !" ejaculated all.

"That's thirty-six millions five hun.
dred a year !" excliimed the banker.
"These Pennsylvania Dutch men own
whole rivulets of petroleum, raw and
refiled," remarked Delamore sagely.
" That's so," rejoined the banker;
"but what is the signature ?"
"What's the oily emperor's1litle ?"
inquired Stephen.
" Itis signed, simply," replied Flora,
after some half dozen ineffeci ucal at-
tempts to deciper the letters-."Van Der
Last."
"Van Der Last !" ejaculated the com-
pany ; "what a name!"        I
The doors ot the reception chamber
were thrown open, a lacquey in slplo "
did livery advanced through the pore
talks, and announced, in a loud tone of
voice---"Mr. Van Der Last!"  '
CHAPTER XV.
T HE TEST OF TflUE LOVE.
"That's me, Van DerL ast--the real,
original, simon pure Van Der Last!"
Into the parlor of the opera divinity
entered no less a personage than Mr.
Christopher Last, arrayed in all the
brilliancy of a fell blown fop. Loaded
down with chains of gold, diamuon.a
and precious stones, giving himi he ap.
pearance of a peripatetic jewellers' shop.
Upon assuming his new dignity,\ the
worthy artisan had expended his inge-
nuity on an over elaboration of his
person. His clothes were embroidered
vi h gold and silver, and strewn with
pearls, rubies and other valuables. In
tact, Mr. Last had purchased the cos-
tume of a foreign ambassador, and caus-
ed it to be adorned with additional em-
bellishments.
The assembled guests g gthered in
mute wonderment around this .)trange
figure, and several seconds ela psed be-
Fore the company recovere. rat the

surprise, and then ill greeted the ec-
centric apparition with loud and pro-
longed peals of merriment.
"That's him !" exclaimed Delamore,
with a sarcastic smile.
" What a guy !" ejaculated Marcy,
joining in the laughing chorus.
"It's Christopher Last, the bootmak-
or," said Dr. Morand.
"Yes, that me," quoth the artisan,
with a mock, polite bow; "I own to the
corn ; but how the dickens did you know
me in this harness?"
"A bootmaker !" exclaimed the ladies
of the opera, holding up their hands in
holy horror at the idea of such contami-
nation.
nanwihat !" exclaimed Madame Flora,
indulging in a hearty peal of laughter ;
"is my distinguished friend a boot-
maker ?"
"Yes, ma'am, at your service," re-
sponded Christopher frankiy. "1Never-
theless be of good cheer. I have struck
oil in the deepest well, and have a hen-
dred thousand dollars to spend iw' 1 day.
I ata what you may call a genteel, if
not noble, working man."
"By my faith," quoth Marcy, with a
shrug of the shoulders, "as times go,
one can scarcely know who is ripit and
who is poor. Accept my compliments,
my most noble mender of boots."
"As I don't take anything for noth-
ing," returned the artisan, "I'll mend
your bouts for nothing-I understand
your affairs."
"But, my worthy friend," interposed
Bernard the banker, "you said you had
one hundred thousand dollars to expend
in one day 1"
"Well, I did," replied Christopher;
."and Iwill say so again.
"But your entire wealth is but on c
hundred thousand."
"Can't I spend that in one dayI]
gained it in that time!"
"Thaw's so," ejaculated the banker
and ho went off into a profound revery

"My dear friend," observed Dr. Mo-
rand, "I did not think you so rich."
"Possibly," replied the bootinaker ;
"but capital accumulates rapit'ly in oil
stock ;' and then Christopher added re-
proachfully-"We have not seen you,
Stephen, for over a fortnight."
"But why do you call yourself Van
Der Last ?"
"To make my entry among the fash-
ionables, I found Lust, although good
for a bootmaker, entirely too vulgar for
a rich millionaire, so I went to a heral-
dry man and got made into a noble
man with a coat of arms thrown is for
a fifty dollar greenback. He traced my
pedigree back to the bootmakers of Hol-
land, and christened me after the Van
Der Lasts, own cousins to the Van Der
Pevels who were sheep was:ers."
As the worthy parvenue spoke, he
moved about uneasily, for his clothes
were anything bit a good fit, and the
pantaloons somewhat incommoded his
pedestrianism as he affected a slight
swagger.
"You don't seem to be easy in your
fine clothes," remarked Marcy.
"The fo-x, is, that these clothes was
not ma de for me," rejoined the boot-
maker, cam it.y--"I bought them because
they were covered with finery. A man
with greenbacks in his' pocket has a
right to have gold on his back, other-
wise people vouldn't know it."
"Yes, but yoa cut a funny figure,"
said a lady with a smile.
"Better to laugh than to cry,' re tort-
ed the shoemaker, sarcastically. "You
t folks earn your living in trying to please
pcople,and why can't I spend my money
in making others laugh-it's about the
same."
".It is a jolly idea that of your com-
ing here," observed Vanderip, sly ly.
I   "You think so, do you ?  Nobody
questions your right to think," auswer-
ed the bootmaker.
"By the way, Stephen, where i the

1

THE BOOT MAKER OF THE FIFTH AVENUE.  73


74

THE BOOT MAKER OF TIDE FIFTH AVENUE.

lady of the house-I should salute her."
I will present you," said Dr. Mo-,
rand, leading the way to the chair
where was seated Madame     Flora.
"Madame, Mr. Van Der Last."
"1 -:a enchanted to see you," said the
hostess, gracefully.
"I believe it, ' returned the artisan,
vainly endeavoring to finish a low bow;
"madam," he added, after -a moment's
pause, "excuse my not making a bow;
but the fact is, these pantaloons weren't
made for me, and they're a little too
tight about the -"
A scream from the horrified fair sex
abruptly terminated the sentence.
Christ opher cast his eyesover the ob-
ject of Dr, Morand s-adoration, and in-
stituted a mental comparison between
her and Genevieve, and, as may be ex-
pected, the balance was struck in the
latter's favor.
"You're a splendid woman," observ-
ed the artisan; " no wonder you turn
the heads of the opera goers; you ought
to, ma'am."
"You clatter me, Mr. Van Der Last,"
said Flora, with a faint smile.
Just then the music of a quadrille
broke upon the ear from an adjoining
apartment.
"Gentlemen," said the lady, rising
from her seat and extending her arm
towards the artisan, "the last sett be-
fore supper. Mr. Van Der Last shhll I
have the honor of dancing with you1"
"Dancing !" quoth Qhmristophei-, giv-
ing a nervous twitch ofids pantaloons,
"I am sorry to say that these panta-
loons were not designed for dancing
purposes. Excuse me; and the next
time I come I'll be in the full rig of a
ballet dancer."
"As you wish, my eccentric friend ;'
and Flora, advanced towards Stephen.
"Pardon me, madam," resumed the
mechanic, anticipating the doctor's ac-
ceptance of the lady's implied iavita-
tion ; "but allow me to have a moment's
conversation with this gentleman."

And as the bootipaker spoke, he pass.
ed his arm through that of Dr. Morand,
who was under too many obligations to
the artisan publicly to resent this vex.
atious interference with his mistress.
"With me," observed Stephen, cast-
ing a glance upon his hostess, who could
scarce conceal a smile at witnessing her
admirer's embarrassment---"O, certain-
ly ; that is, if Flora will allow of it."
"No, gentlemen, do not allow me to
interfere with your arrangements," re-
spon(led the opera queen, with a gra-
cious wave of the hand, as she passed
into the adjoining apartment to direct
the revels of her guests and to regulate
the order of their dancing.
"You are now happy, my friend," said
the bootmaker, as he and the physician
paced the deserted chamber, "in the
company of this lady. "You love each
other like a pair of turtle doves."
"Of all hearts hers is the most sensi-
tive, the most disinterested."
"Of her disinterestedness," resumed
the bootmaker, with a tranquil smile,
"there can be no question. Neverthe-
less, it loes not prevent her from ac-
cepting some love tokens-some trifles
in the way of jewels."
"That's quite true."
"Well, :wd what have you gained in
exchange 1"
" Tb t's a question touching our
hearts," replied Dr. Morand.
"It i.; a bad speculation if you have
gained nothing tangible in return," said
Christopher, in an off hand manner of
speech.
"You aiti inquisitive," retorted Steph-
en. "When, I am happy, it is a new joy
for me to speak of my happiness. See
how cry cordial is our affection. Be-
held the first souvenir of her passion
for ine-a ribbon, taken from her waist."
"Value one dime!" quoth the shoe-
maker, examining the dearly , prized
token with the eye of a commercial ex.
'pert,an operation which the young phy.

THE BOOT MAKER OF THE FIFTH AVENUE.

75

sician vieed with supreme contempt ;  grand total, eighty cents. Debet by
"and what did yoq give in return - a 'cash paid for jewelry, one thousand
ijlit"eoeseven hundred dollars-balance against
"A ring set in brilliants" responded you, sixteen hundred and ninety-nine
the physician.                     dollars and twenty cents, which charge
"Value not less than five hundred to profit and ross."
dollars," remarked Christopher.      "Brit, Mr. Last ---" said the physi-
"Never mind about the price," re- cian, argumentatively.
turned the doctor sharply.           "Van Der Last, now I'm in the fash-
"Well, and what else has she given ionable world, and it is all the same
observed the bootmaker.            to you. I rather like the Van Der, it's
"Behold the souvenir which I esteem so sweet and noble; but d-u these'pan-
the most," quoth Stephen, showing a taloons, they're awfutight, It is with
glove 'which he took from his bosom, this-Van Der and my treasures--that
"aud chiefly on account of the manner I intend carrying ofi your beauty:-"
in which Flora presented it. It was atj  "You, a shioeimal er !" interrupted
the last ball, given by a leading per-, Stephen, witi a Thugli.
sonage of the avenue. Surrounded by , "Let those huigh who win," respond-
admirers, by worshippers, she was pres- ed' the mechanic. "I know my own
sed to make her choice of a cavalier. power, and will venture on it. Now I
Feigning embarrassment, she closed her will.bet you what you will that within
eyes and tossed this glove, as by chance, four days I will return to you all your
into the, air. It fell near me, and I love tokens, 'trinkets and what' notes
could perceive from the sweet smile, the which have cost you so heavily."
charming movement of her. rosy lips,  "4Within four days!' said Stephen,
the gracious leer of her soft black eye with a smile.
as I picked up the perfumed glove, that  "Yes; what will you bet I can't,' re-
it had reached its destination, and been torted Christopher, seriously.
sent on an errand not from  chance   "What shalt be the wager?" inquired
alone."                            the young physician.
"That's a pretty romance, this tale of  "The wager on my part shallbe what-
a glove," remarked the bootmaker in a ever you please," replied the bootlnak-
business like manner; "has she given er with suavity, "on your. promise of
you anything else ?"  .            relinquishing all pretensions to the lady,
"Yes, my skeptic," replied Stephen, provided I bring you back all presents
"this lock of her hair."           not within four days, not --"
"Yes, hair is very dear," resumed the  "0, you admit then that it is --"
bootmaker, "and brought in exchange interrupted Stephen.
a set of jewelry, value one thousand  "Too long a time," responded Chris-
dollars."                          topper, gravely ; "in four hours at the
The physician, gazed upon the me- outside ; I rather admire quick work."
ehanic in evident wonder.            "Your assurance borders upon subli-
"You see I am posted, Stephen," said uity," said the doctor, indulging in a
Mr. Last deliberately. " And. now let prolonged fit of laughter - "in four
me strike a balance for you. Credit by hours forsooth."
one ribbon, ten cents ; a spoiled glove,
dear at twenty cents ; and a lock of             ---
hair, which may have come from a sbar--
ber's shop, extravagant at fifty cents-

I

! t
r
'
.


THE BOOT MAKER OF TU FIFTH AVENUE.

CHAPTER XVI.
LOYE   AN1D  REASON .
"What is the subject of your mirth,
gentlemen ?"
The beauteous epera songstress re-
entered the reception chamber loolding
a hundred fold more lovely as the exer-
cise of the dance had heightened the
brilliancy of her complexion, while her
naturally expressive features were em-
bellished by a radiance of enjoyment.
"You may well ask," responded Dr.
Morand, with difficulty repressing his
ringing laugh; "but, my dear, I'm sorry,
very sorry, it's not allowable for me to
enlighten you-indeed it is not."
"If you desire to apprize Madame
Flora, " interrupted the bootmaker,
with continued gravity, " I have no
objection, I assure you."
" What, really," inquired Dr. Mo-
rand, with a semblance of incredulity,
"have you no fears on that head ?"
"On the contrary," returned Christo.
pher, "it will be a favor."
"Ir that case," resumed Stephen, "I
will make a clean breast."
"What is all this ceremony about ?"
asked the fair hostess.
"Well, my dear Flora," quoth the doc-
tor, in a facetious tone of voice, "you
will scarce believe it, but Mr. Van Der
Last is smitten with your charms, per-
fectly prostrated by the glances from
your eyes ------"
"With my charms, Mr. Van Der
Last 1" exclaimed the singer.
"Yes, madam, it is so," said Christo-
pher, with commendable gravity.
"Your manifold beauties have over-
turned his reason," continued Stephen,
with burlesque intonation ; "your grace
has touched his heart."
"Can such a catastrophe happen ?"
lat ghingly asked the fair one.
' Yes, madam, that is the case," re-
sponded the artisan.
"His impetuous orders defies all ob-

stacles,"resumed the doctor, "and In
has sworn ;hat you will be iilove with
him before-before-  beg pardon for
is impertinence - the lapse of four
hours !"
"Four hours!" and the oper" queen
laughed mischievously.
"Yes, madam, it is another fact,"
quoth the marble-nerved Christopher.
"How, Mr. Van Der Last ?" spoke
Flora, between her laughing fits; 'with-
in four hours-is not that entirely too
long a time 1"
"Just about the time, I think," said
the artisan calmly.
"You think so, indeed ?" quoth t'he
still laughing beauty.
"Nevertheless, however, Dr. Morand
has assisted to shorten it."
"I, my dear Van Der Last?" exclaim-
ed the physician.
"Assuredly," resumed the bootmak-
er, preserving his accustomed gravity ;
"I would have been at a loss as to the
manner of approaching the divine Flora
upon so tender a matter, but you have
broken the ice for me, and avowed my
passion in tender words whiicli I never
could have invented. The lady now
knows the object of my attentions-
from this moment I journey alone."
"Come, then," said Flora, with a
smile, "in the forward march."
"Yes, if it suits the gentleman's hu-
mor ; "and as he spoke the bootmaker
wade a gesture motioning Stephen to
the other room.
"If I can comprehend a hint," said
Dr. Morand, good humoredly, "that is-
an intimation that I had better be oil.,
"Precisely the object of my demon-
stration."
"Well, Flora, what advise you ?F"
quoth the physician, smiling.
"In faith, my dear," replied the fair
singer languidly, "I am so bewildered,
to see myself captured by Mr. Van Per
Last ---".
"Very wel1", reqnded Dr. Morand,

F /

76

reindulging hi hilarity, "you counte-
nanco the conflict. Mr. Van Per Last
I leave you in occupation of the field-
open your batteries. It" is a very royal
joke, and I hope you will enjoy it like
fy Flora." . .
The happy lover made a low obeig
ance to the object of his adoration and
quitted the apartment.
"Well, Mr. Van Der Last," commenc-
ed the hostess, as she assumed a seat
upon the tete-a-tete, aced motioned her
guest to her side, "the hostilities are
declared ; behold me on the defensive ;
comnenco firing, or must I surrender
at discretion upon summons ?"
"I am predisposed, madam," said the
bootmaker, maintaining his erect posi-
tion, and rubbing his legs with his
hands.
"Has the gentleman the rheumatism?"
inquired the lady.
"Not at all," returned Christopher,
seating himself after some contortions
upon an ottoman at his syren's feet. "If
I should venture, Madame Flora, upon
love phrases, I feel that I may, through
sheer inexperience, make myself ridi-l
culous ---"'
"Maybe so," returned the singer, with
nonchalance.
"Then I will speak straight to the
point," resumed Christopher, in a na-
tural way. "There is one thing in which
I am not ridiculous, not even in your
eyes-I am very rich --"
"My dear fellow," retorted the syren,
'I have laughed in the face of people
who have been equally rich with you-
of men who could not boast one-third
the impudence you possess --
"That was the reason they did not
succeed.-,
"You flatter yourself."
"Moreover, those people," continued
the bootmaker, "had a mind to keep
their money--on the other hand, my
weaJb is a source of annoyance to me."

"A source of annoyance 1" repeated
Madame Flora.
"Yes, madam," replied Christopher ;
"and I entertain the idea of diseneum-
berImg myself right away."
"Would you negaar ypurself 7" in-
quired th iatr songstress.
"That is my determination," coolly
replied the bootmaker ; and as I desire
to retire to my old business, I wish to
make myself thoroughly dry before the
end of three or four days. You see I've
work before me."
"A fortune like yours !" said the
singer incredulously.
'"Do you think that it would be won-
derful not to be able to get rid of all
that within four or five days "
"Let us see," said the syren, with a
serious look, "are you really inclined to
make way with your wealth as you
say ,
"I," quoth the mechanic, determi-
nately, "I pledge you my word and
honor that I shall become in four days
as poor as a beggar or-a cobbler ; and
the best proof of my sincerity is the
fact of my addressing myself to your
assistance -"'
"Not bad, that idea," said the song-
stress; "and I avow to you that under
other circumstances and at another pe-
riod, all that you have told me might
have plunged me into a revery ; but at
the present moment it is --"
"The present moment?" inquired
Christopher, sharply.
"At this present moment," quoth the
operatic divinity, "I love --"
"You love !" retorted the bootmaker;
"you are mistaken-that flirtation was
a pleasantry which has lasted some fif-
teen days, and having run its race, it is
full time that it was finished."
" And for what reason I" inquired
Madame Flora.
"Because I have secured," responded
Christopher, "the most amusing and
malignant means to enrage your little

77

THE BOOT MAKER OF TIlE FIFTH AVENUE,

11I't'


78

THE BOOT MAKER OF THE FIFTH AVENUE.

friends at the opera, who are already
making sport of you."
Making sport of me at the opera ?"
inquired the % dy, testily.
"To be sure," replied the bootmaker,
maliciously. "They say that you have
sold your horses, because you could not
maintain them; that you spoke of going
to live in the country because you have
no longer the withal to flourish in the
city; nd that you have put on the sem-
blance of loving simply to avoid impu-
tation of being loved by some of your
former admirers."
"And all these stories are told of me!"
murmured the lady, vexedly.
"I have heard them myself in the
green room," responded the artisan; but
this time the honest Christopher indulg-'
ed in a pure fabrication, for he had as
much knowledge of the moon as of the
operatic green room. "In fine, they've
promised to crush you out of your lux-
uries as you have served them hereto-
fore."
"Will they? We shall see about that."
"We shall see," continued Christo-
pher, sarcastically, "you ruin yourself
to make a sensation. Is it not better to
create a much more profound excite-
ment in ruining me ?"
"Ruining you ? "said the singer; "are
you really worth the trouble?"
"You will never find better work,"
replied the artisan; "11 am seeking for
some person to throw my gold out of the
window ; some one who will cause the
whole race of extravagant females to
die out of pure envy ; some one who
will devour ten thousand, fifteen thou-
sand, twenty thousand of greenbacks in
each and every hour. Leave these en-
vious growlers in th3ir mire, and soar
above them upon golden wings."
" Ah, my good friend, " murmured
Flora to herself, "a hundred thousand
dollars in a day. What jealousies can
be wrought by such a ruin! But tell
me frankly why tempt me in this man-
ner?"

"Why ?" repeated Christopher, with
a smile ; "go down into your stable,
and you Will find that tile horses vend-
ed by you have been purchased by me.'
Ope.) these caskets," here the mechanic
drew some jewel cases from his pocket,
"and you will find the pearls and dia-
monds which you have sold, and pur,.
chased by me. In fine, cast your eyes
over this document which reconveys to
you this mansion, sold by your orders,
purchased by mine."
"Can this be possible ?" quoth the
opera syren, as she took the title deeds
into her hands; "he must love me to
distraction."
"Distraction !" repeated Christopher,
gaining courage as he observed how ef-
fectually his temptation was ,working
"that is nothing near the word. Yes,
Flora, for a long time past my hearthas
been enflamed, consumed, burnt up in
my adoration of you !"
'r The bootmaker paused, for he had ex-
hausted his set speech, while the pers-
piration stood in drops upon lis brow.
Suddenly flinging himself at the Yeet of
.the syren after the most approved man-
ner of the stage lover, Christopher cqn-
tinued-"Flora, Iswear, at your feet,
at your delicious feet, Flora, dearest
angel, light of my soul, at yourfeet.*
Christopher suddenly ceased, and gazed
in rapture upon theshoes covering the
feet he so enthusiastically eulogized.
After a pause, he added -" About the
neatest pair of rights and lefts I've seen
in many a day."
"What is that you are saying V"- ex-
claimed the astounded Flora.
"How elaborately worked," continu-
ed Christopher, still lost in admiration
of the shoemaker's tact ; "they are not
shoes, but jewel cases."
"Good heavens!" exclaimed Flora,
"the artist reappears-he is adoring my
shoes !" and the lady laughed heartily ..
"Yes,. pardon me," observed the 'e-
chanic, recovering self-possession, "Ali,

THE BOOT MAKER OF THE FIFTH AVENUE.

exquisite Flora, I swear-radiant Flora,
swear !"
"Raise, raise} my dear fellow," com-
manded the singer; "come from your
knees, otherwise one would think that
you are taking my measure."
"Not a bit of danger, madam," said
Christopher, sadly; "in looking upon
your features allhope of work is banish-'
ed."
"A very pretty compliment, Mr. Van
Der Last," quoth the hostess, with a
gracious smile ; "but excuse me 'if IY
speak frankly to you. - Let me assure
you that I love Dr. Moran d even yet,
and that I do not detest my good friends
of the opera. On these accounts, there-
fore, you must pardon me if I do not
accept your offer."
"Well, well," returned the bootniaker
sedately, "confidence begets confidence
-let me assure you, madam, that I do
not entertain for you the least particle
of love; but I love Stephen dearly., He
is a noble young man, whom it is the
duty of us both to save'--"
"To save !" ejaculated the operatic
queen, in amazement.
"He must be drawn from this life of
disorder," remarked Christopher, feel
ingly ; "from this course of life-use-
less, aimless, profitless and honoriess-
through which he forfeits'the esteenI of
others and respect for Ihimself. In a
word, his salvation must'be' wrought !"
"But in what particular have I aided
in his perdition ?"-
"In what,. my poor friend ?" quoth
the bootmaker, with a tone of generous'
dignity, "you only see the happiness of'
to-day-you, who have only smilingly
to extend the hand to see it filled with
gold; but we who earn our daily bread
by the sweat of our brow, we think of
the future. Now then what is the pros-
pect before Dr. Morand "
The artiste moved nervously on her
seat, but interrupted not the thread of
the discourse, which Christopher de-
livered with effective emphasis.,

79

"He is gay, brilliant and happy,". re-
sumed the artisan, "with fine clothes
upon his back and money in his-pocket,
all-of which comes neither from hisfa
mily nor his labor. Tell me, is this
honorableI He is the lover of an ar-
tiste, and instead ol his ruining himself
to please her, which would be solely .a
misfortune, it is she who is ruining her-
self to gratify him, which is shame-
"Opinions may differ, sir," interpos-
ed Flora, evidently touched.
"Whenyou have ceasedto love him,"
said Christopher prophetically, "and
let me tell you, that will -be. before
long."
"What warrant lve you for saying
thus 1" inquired the lady.
"It will be before long," repeated the
bootmake. "You will;Pot love for any
length of time a man degraded in your
eyes, and you will shed bitter tears for
having, yourself, been th cause of his
degradation. Yes, you weep in anguish,
for you have a good heart."
"I weep-I, a mere actress !' and
Flora was unable to master, her agita-
tion.
You have    good heart, as I well
know, for I have worked for poor peo-
ple succored bf your chrity-have I
not ."
The fair artiste blushed, and averted
her head as if to avoid tlie coimpliment;
but the troth-is, that-'the fair hostess
was heart-sore and ill at eas&amp;- as the
words of the honest inechanic struck
her ear.
"Well, the day of your separation
will arrive," resumed, Christopher.
"Stephen will continue fo love-you, in-
asmuch as he has sacrificed everything
for you. But as he has lost the habit of
labor, without which he can have
neither consolation or resources, some
one of your good friends of the theatre
will some day say to you with a laugh :
'You remember your, old lover, Steph-
en-well, he has killed himself.',"

p

e?
rlyyt
_       j
Y
,f
1}
f
"f           y
' +L
a l
r
r
s


THE BOOT MAKER .OF THE FIFTH AVENUE.

"Killed himself!" ejaculated the fair
singer, with a movement of terror.
"Yes, madam, that will be the inevi-
table termination of the affair," quoth
the artisan, growing more and more se-
rious. "You see I have spoken to you
frankly. Now shall it terminate other-
wise?"
A moment of suspense followed this
pointed query.. Flora, intensely agitat-
ed,seemingly by contradictory motives,
moved nervously in her seat ; while the
honest mechanic cast his eyes upon her
imploringly, as if exhorting her to a
final declaration.
"My dear friend," said the singer,
after a moment's deliberation, "the af-
fair shall terminate otherwise than you
anticipate."
" And what is your solemn conclu-
sion ?" asked Christopher.
"From this hour we separate," replied
the artiste firmly ; "lead Stephen away
from this house-I will never see him
again !"1
"0, madam, do not deceive me !" ex-
claimed the bootmaker, his joy contrast-
ing strangely with the lady's grief, "for
you know the full extent of the favor

you have conferred on me.
gle existence depends upon
and your will--not one but

Not a sin-
your cour-.
two. Nay,

it may be three saved !"
While the tender hearted actress,
overpowered by the violent reaction of
her feelings, sunk back for rest against
her lounge, the delighted bootmaker,
overjoyed at having obviated, as he
supposed,.the only obstacle in the way
of Genevieve's marriage, threw himself
upon his knees before the lady, and,
seizing her hand, pressed it to his lips
in grateful acknowledgment of her sac-
rif ve,
"You are a noble woman !" quoth the
bootmaker in undisguised enthusiasm ;
and he again kissed the hand of the
songstre s, whom he regarded as a bene-
factor to his own hogsehold.

CHAPTER XV[L
CUPID'S WINGS CLIPPED.
"Bravo ! bravo! the.'fii-st bit of acting
ever seen on any stage'!"
Dr. Stephen Morand, returning from
the ball room, viewed the spectacle be-
fore him as a species of ludicrous inter-
lude, contrived for his surprise or vex-
ation and acted as by preconcerted ar-
rangement between the leading parties
to the scheme.
"Stephen ! " murmured the singer,
with palpable emotion, as she ventured
to turn an affectionate glance upon her
admirer.
"Courage !" whispered Christopher,
as he arose from his kneeling position;
"I have wagered with him that you will
give me the ring and bracelet, which he
has hitherto presented to you."
"It shall be done," rejoined the lady,
her heart throbbing violently.
"Mr. Van Der Last," said Dr. Mo-
rand, who comprehended that the scene
before him was. no work of fantasy,
"this is downright treason."
"Treason !" ejaculated the bootmak-
er, with a smile..
"Without doubt,'' responded the doc-
tor, attempting to shield his resentment
behind a parade of hilarity, "youshould
have employed for the capture of Flora
the arguments of a financier, and I find
you puffing at her feet like a comedy
lover   "
"What right have you to dictate
terms ?" retorted Christopher, with as-
sumed anger, so as to give the cue to his
fellow performer ; " what matters the
manner as long as we attain success l"
"You need not vindicate your beha-
vior, Mr. Van Der Last;" and the heart
of Flora smote her as she played a part
of duplicity so uncongenial to her na-
ture, but consonant with her sense of
duty ; "when a person acts with that
delicacy and refinement which has cha-
racterized your every action,oie can af-

THE BOOT MAKER OF THE FIFTH -AVENUE.

9

ford to brave the railleries of the en-
vious, the puerile, the discarded."
" How say you, Flora?" nervously
inquired Dr. Morand.     .
"I say," replied the singer, tranquilly,
"that Mr. Van Der Last is a man of
wit, humor and common sense-a most
noble heart."
"Is that your settled conviction?"'re-
torted Stephen, with a sneer.
"He has demonstrated to me," con-
tinued the actress, noting the effect pro-
duced by her words, "that our intimacy
is a folly."
"That's so!" chimed in the bootmak-
er in a low tone of voice.
" A folly I'' exclaimed Stephen, in
amazement. " Come now, Flora, you
are joking-you know how sincerely I
love you, and --"
"It is on that very account," rejoined
the lady, with calmness and dignity,
"that I speak to you in soberness of
spirit.
"Am I dreaming I" murmured the
young physician, astounded at the se-
rious change which matters were as-
suming, "speak, then, fully and freely;
"hesitate not, but decree my doom."
."He has caused me to comprehend,"
resumed the actress, tear drops starting
to her eyes, "that this folly may per-
chance become a fault,.if not a disaster,
and that it is our duty-that of both of
us-to put a termination to its longer
continuance."'
"Yes, yes ; and you," said Stephen,
turning to the artisan, "have demon-
strated by your fine arguments all this
to her comprehensionI"
"Yes, she comprehends it thorough-
ly," returned Christopher gravely.
"I am anxious to learn," quoth the
doctor to the lady, ironically, " what
pressing reasons, 'what unanswerable
arguments Mr. Van Der Last has been
able to advance to determine your line
of duty."
"Frhaps they may not be satifactorr

to you," returned Flora, affecting to
smile. "But perceive to what lengths
went his delicate foresight. I was com-
pelled to sacrifice some jewels. See, he,
hag brought themfback."
Stephen blushed ; for in the jewel
case produced by the bootmaker, he re-
cognized the brilliants and rubies which
but a few days before the singer had
disposed of to raise money for t eir mu-
tual extravagances. It was a first tingle
of a budding shame.
"Yes, these are my fao'ner property,"
observed the actress calmy. "You per-
ceive this ring which I wear upon this
finger ; I regret to be compelled to re-
move it, but it must be so. To von,
Mr. Van Der Last, I make over this ring
in exchange foryour disinterested kind-
ness."
As Madame Plora spoke she removed
the love token presented to' her by
Stephen, and supplied" its place by
another given her by the artisan to
whom she remitted the first jewel. The
young physician gazed in astonishment
at this operation, so unexpected and so
aggravating, and premonitory of his
inevitable destiny. The bootmaker ac-
cepted the transfer with silent stolidity,
merely venturing to implant a kiss upon
the hand of the beautiful donor.
"And my bracelet," continued Flora,
as she opened a second case presented
to her by her new guest, "those beauti-
ful emeralds which I mourned over so
oftentimes in silent sorrow, and return-
ed to me. Hold, my dear Mr. Van Der
a Last ! How can I repay you, for I am
sure that the pretty trinket I now wear
will scarce compensate you for your
outlay in regaining my cherished trea-
sures."
t   "The bracelet I gave her !" muttered
Stephen, in agony of spirit, as he ob-
i served his former lady love tranquilly
3 pass over to the mechanic that souvenir
of affection which she had promised
y eternally tower fophis sake, and whiel

81

'1     ,
1


THE BOOT MAKER OF THE FIFTH A ENUE.

Christopher pocketed with the most im-
placable nonchalance.
"Enough, enough!" exclaimed Steph-
en, with a groan. "Flora, you have be-
trayed me !" And then turning his
grief into anger, he continued, vehe-
mently - "I comprehend everything ;
and if there is anything that can con-
sole me for this unworthy treason it is
the choice of a person you have made
to replace me."
"Rail against me to your full bent,"
returned Christopher, meekly; "it don't
make much difference; I am used to it,
Stephen."
"Somepday or the other, Stephen,"
said the lady, with a deep melancholy,
palpable upon her beauteous cointe-
Dance, her utterance choked by half
subdued sobs, "you will comprehend
and appreciate the motives for my ac-
tion, but now they must remain, at least.
for a time, a mystery to you. Stephen,
fare thee well !"
The lady dropped her eyes, for her
heart was overtasked at the sudden gra-
vity of the task she had imposed upon
herself. Waving her hand as a sign of
adieu, she was about to retire from, the
chamber, when her feelings overpower-
ed her, and her pent up emotions found
a vent in the unrestrained flow of tears.
"Flora ! Flora !" exclaimed the phy-
sician, attempting to detain the de-
spairing singer, "you will repent of this
cruelty.",
"Never!" exclaimed the lady-' ycu
will bless me for this wound."
'Madame Flora," interrupted the
bootmaker, catching the singer by the
arm, speaking to her in a semi-audible
tone of voice, "you have forgotten the
reconveyance, according to contract."
"Contract !" ejaculated the lady -
"what mean you ?"
"I surrender to you your mansion,"
responded the bootmaker, handing over
to her the title deeds and reconveyance
of the property she had on the morning
sold =i you-have=earhed it nobly "

"You are mistaken, sir," rejoined the
actress, with an air of offended dignity,
"I have earned nothing-my ways are
those of the heart, and my reward will
be paid me in the future."
With a deliberate and collected ac-
tion, the fair hostess tore the reconvey-
ance of her forfeited mansion into a
dozen fragments, and politely handed
the title deeds back to the disconcerted
doner; then,-with a graceful wave of the
hand, she bade adieu to her guests, en-
tertained for the last time.
"Cruel, heartless, sordid woman !"
muttered the physician, as he Viewed
the departing jgure of his late mistress.
"Nothing of the kind," said the boot-
maker, approaching his friend. " Be-
lieve me you are but a mere boy in the
ways of the world. Your study has
been confined to books.. Suddenly you
find yourself thrown into the vortex of
fashionable existence ;and you believe
that everything glittering around. you
is gold. It is'natural; but you Perceive
how false the idea. Desert this world
of art-return with me. Certainly this
woman loves you not-and who-knows
but that in a less artificial sphei e you
may find some honest and noble girl
who may love, if she does not already."
"And who would deceive me at trea-
oherously as did this last.".
"That is not true," said the artisan,
emphatically. No, sir; you calumniate
my angel of innocence-my Genevieve."
"Genevieve 1" inquired Stephen -
"what is the meaning of all this ?"
"I will tell you frankly," quoth the
bootmaker, "that' it was not to please
Madame Flora that I came here, but to
separate you from  her. Now then,
Stephen, turn your back upon vanity
and let ua depart."
The young physician listened to the
advice of his mentor, and was about to
retire, although with deep regret, frosts
the mansion of his enchantress, when h
and the mechanic found theinselve8

THE BOOT MAKER OF
surrounded by the entire group of dan-
cers and card players, male and female,
with the exception of the hostess, who,
feigning an excuse to her guests, had
retired to her boudoir to seek consola-
tion from  the pangs of a .wounded
vanity.
"Mr. Last," said the stranger Dela-
more, "I have been searching for you."
"You, again," returned the bootmak-
er, abruptly ; "what do you want I"
Christopher surveyed his interrogator
with a look of contempt, intermingled,'
however, with some expression of dread,
for there was an occult influence exert-
ed by the man over tht mind of the me-
chanic, which at times disconcerted the
most sagacious of his resolutions.
"I come on the part of my esteemed
friend Mr. 1arcy," said the stranger,
while Mr. Marcy bowed at mention of
his name, "to lay before you for con-
sideration a most important proposi-
tion."
"A most important proposition !" re-
peated the mechanic.
"I am fully aware," resumed Dela-
more, "that my friend, unaware of her
relations, has been guilty of several
wrongs, or errors of judgment with re-
gard to Miss Genevieve; but should that
gentleman, connected with many of the
first families of the State, present him-
self to demand her hand in marriage,
do you not think that he has extended
to her the reparation worthy of a gen-
tleman, repentant of his prior indiscre-
tions ?"
"I refuse the proposition," said Chris-
topher decisively-" the hand of Gene-
vieve has been already promised to a
capable man."
"To whom has she been affianced?"
demanded Delamore.
"To Doctor Stephen Morand," re-
sponded the mechanic.
"To me ?" said the young physician
inquiringly, while the crowd evidenced
their astonishment by a series of half-
suppressed murmurs.

TIE FIFTH AVENUE.              83
"To Doctor Morand?" ejaculated Do-
lamore, vehemently - " to the lover of
Madame Flora, the actress 1"
"No, sir," said Christopher. "Gene-'
vieve will be married as I have inform-
ed you."
"She shall marry," shouted Dela-
more furiously, "as I desire-do you
unerstand that?"
"By what authority," inquired the
shoemaker, blandly, "do you base your
mandate ?"
"I am perfectly acquainted with the
sovereignty you exercise over her,"
quoth Delamore. "I am aware that you
have found the child upon the inanimate
body of an unfortunate female ; I am
aware that since that day you have de-
voted to her every species of paternal
care, for which you will be well paid ;
nevertheless,1owever devoted you have
shown yourself, you are not after all but
her guardian-mind my words, guard-
ian."
The bootmaker looked upon the
speaker with a species of astonishment,
for he appreciated the truth of all he
said.
"aMy respected friend," whispered the
stranger in a low tone of voice, " I am
the father of that interesting child !"
"The father of Genevieve," quoth the
terrified Christopher; "how say you!
Are you the father of my angelic child?"
"To-morrow, sir," said Delamore, "I
will be at your house with proofs to sub-
stantiate my assertion-documents and
writings."
"Documents and writings !" repeated
the artisan, astonished ; "to-morrow,
then, I will meet you at my house -
hence be sure to bring all your proofs
with you."
"Yes, to-morrow!" replied Delamore;
and the words rang through the arti-
san's brain with the whirl of a winged
1 arrqv.
"Her father!" murmured Christopher
to himself, as, taking the arm of Dr.

82

I'

ii
4
1l


84

THE BOOT MAKER OF THE FIFTH AVENUE,-

Morand, he forced that gentleman to re.-
tire precipitately from the, fascinating
chambers of the divinity of the opera.
"Her father ." murmured the artisan,
when, having gained his own abode and
fung himself upon his couch for rest
after an unaccustomed night's excite-
ment. But he courted sleep in vain.
Before his eyes constantly hovered the
form of the strange and mysterious De-.
lamore, whose frowning visage and
harsh, grating voice boded little good
for the future of the angelic Genevieve.
CHAPTER XVIII.
IMPOSTURE.
"What means this mysterious com-
munication, and who can be its author?
Stephen the acknowledged lover of an
operatic singer. No--no ! it cannot be
possible ; for if he could condescend to
love a woman of that stamp, I never
could love him."
The bootmaker's adopted daughter
sat in the little parlor over the shop,
holding in her hands the mysterious
epistle which nad given her so much
vexation and annoyance. Vainly she
endeavored to identify the handwriting
-ineffectually she attempted to eradi-
cate the impression the perusal of its
contents had created. The heart of the
young girl was pained ; and conviction
as to her lover's falsity usurped full
possession of a mind struggling to ex-
tenuate presumptive infidelity.
-1f, however, it should not prove
true," quoth Genevieve to herself for
the sixteenth time,when the door open-
ed and her meditations were broken
by the entrance of her aristocratic
neighbor, the judge's lady.
"Mrs. Littleton !" ejaculated Gene-
vieve, astonished at so proud a visitor
condescending to honor their abode with
her presence.
"My child !" quoth the lady kindly,

although in evident perturbation- of
spirit, "where is your father-I must
see him immediately, for I wish to-con.
verse with him."
"My father ?" responded the young
girl ; "I will call him for you."
Leaving the lady, the young woman
courteously summoned her parent, who,
apprised of the presence of his neigh-
bor, immediately hastened to ascertain
the reason of her presence.
"Mrs. Littleton !" ejaculated Christo-
pher, astonished at her unexpected visit
and observing a flush of excitement
mantling over a countenance naturally
placid and marble-like.
"You have sent for me, Mr. Last,"
said the judge's lady, as she cast her
glances around the little parlor, as well
to assure herself of being be, enad the
reach of eavesdroppers as of being con-
fident of Genevieve's departure; "your
message alluded to your'having receiv-
ed some intelligence to communicate. I
have hastened hither with all -possible
speed. Pray what is it?"'
The lady paused, breathless with ex-
citement.
"Madam," responded the bootmaker,
with equal precautions against possibi-
lity of surprise, "it is a Serious matter,
which requires the exercise of courage
and energy."
"Great heavens!" exclaimed the lady,
turning red and pale alternately, as the
blood mounted to her cheeks, "has any-
thing happened to Genevieve, that you
in this wise terrify me ?"
"No. Still she is menaced with dan-
ger !" replied the artisan, whose rug-
ged features appeared equally pallid
with the lady's.
"Danger !" repeated Mrs. Littleton,
hysterically.
"In the first place, madam," resumed
Christopher, in a tone ofthesitancy, "her
father is still living !"
"Her father !" retorted the lady, with
an air of incredulity.

THE BOOT MAKER OF THE, FIFTH AVENUE.

" Yes, her father - Herbert Vane !" s
reasserted the mechanic.
"That is impossible !" responded the
judge's lady, with an air of decision-
"the report of his death has reached
evenhHere ; and it was only on confir-
mation of that disastrous news that II
yielded to the solicitations of my father
and became the wife of the Hons. Mr.
Littleton. Of this I can safely assure l
you."                        f
"Your information ias been false 1"
rejoined the artisan emphatically, yet
respectfully. "Herbert Vane is here in
this very city. I have seen him this
very day, and exhibited convincing
proofs of his identity. I am as sure of
his being the father of Genevieve as I
am of my own existence. It is beyond
doubt, madam."
"0, my God, can this be true!" quoth
the lady, balancing, between grief and
joy, and half distracted by conflicting
emotions. "Does he yet live, my Her-
bert, joy of my heart, light of my soul?"
."And, continued the bootmaker, with-
out paying attention to the interrup-
tion, "it behooves you to see him, to
converse with him, madam; for he is
about to bargain away the hand of your
daughter to a bankrupt, a roue, a liber-
tine, a man named Marcy, notorious for
his debaucheries, his debts and his scan-
dals; and yet to ihis miserable repro-
bate, this social outcast, Herbert Vane
has agreed to bestow his daughter in
marriage."
"It is impossible ! " exclaimed the
lady, with evident signs of aversion to
the idea-"No, sir ; Herbert Vane was
too noble, too chivalrio a man to make
such a choice. He is too lofty a soul,
too proud a spirit to jeopardise the ft-
tare of his child. No, sir. I repeat,
Herbert Vane is too honest a man to be
guilty of suchconduct, so unnatural, so
heartless in the extreme."
"He may have been such fifteen years

ince," remarked the bootmake feel-
ngly ; "hut it may chance that his tra-
vois and a vagrant course of life oan
have changed his heart."
"If he has sanctioned this marriage,"
observed the lady, warmly, " H.rbcrt
has been the dupe of some designing
villain !"
"Well, madam," responded Christo-
pher, despondently, "it may be as you
say. You may have the power to unde-
ceive him; but it is beyond my persua-
sion, my prayers to alter the determi-
nation of that austere and domineering
man."
"O, heavens, whatcan I do?" mur-
mured the lady.
"Your tears, your exhortations and
entreaties," interposed the mechanic
tenderly, "Inay melt thathoart of stone.
If he ever loved yqu dearly, as you sup-
pose, he cannot view the sad spectacle
of your sorrow without relenting from
his design."
"Yes, yes," enthusiastically exclaim-
ed the judge's lady, "I will see him-I
will pray to him-I will sue for his par-
don. Bitter as must be the pain of our
meeting, and degraded as will regard
the mother of his child, may God wit-
ness, I must see him !"
"In that case compose yourself," said
the bootmaker, blandly. "I have sent
for him, and he will be here in. a brief
space of time."
"Here 7" inquired the Hon. Mrs. Lit-
tleton in great agitation.
"Yes, here, in this very chamber,"
replied Christopher.
"And so promptly," ejaculated the
lady nervously.
"The hour is at hand,"-urged the ar-
tisao, "have courage."
"I have faith in God's will," respond-
ed the lady, nerving herself to the con-
templated task. "To meet after fifteen
years of cruel separation, it is a fearful
thought. To contemplate a criminal
past,to conjure up memory of my shame

IT

J+
. f ,±
L
yy
De       , ; , i
-A
'I
rte
1         /
}
I                 (i
l
t
-(
s
_i
,q
1{i"
ft
t                A
d
'              ,
i  .
,!.
1
t
'
I l qe
1 f
1
7
'{
i
i  .
t ii
{'11
{  4
!
,i        Est,'
sue;'
'        , ;
,
}  ,
'+'f. ,

I

t
F
F


THE BOOT MAKER OF THE FIFTH AVENUE.

and to realize the anguish of a sacrificed
happiness."
The lady paced the parlor with hur-
ried strides as her speech became more
and more incoherent, as the indistinct
outlines of a future came before her
imagination, threatening annihilation of
her hopes. Yet the idea of rescuing
Genevieve from a certain ignominy,
came to the assistance of maternal af-
fection, and the mother gained strength
to vindicate her child.
"0, God !" exclaimed the judge's:
wife, as the tears of bitterness rolled
down her cheeks, "give me fortitude to
risk this trial. Herbert, I have never
wronged or deceived you. But," she
added, with a deep drawn sigh, will
he belheve my protestations '
"Madame, he is here."
As the bootmaker spoke, he threw
wide the entrance door of his parlor,
through which stalked, with well-as-
sumed dignity, the athletic form of De-
lamore, habited in a rich and over-ela-
borated walking costume.
As he passed the portal, Mrs. Little-
ton rushed ferishly towards the figure
of him whom she had in years gone by
so enthusiastically and unwisely loved.
"Herbert !" exclaimed the lady, fling-
ing herself into his arms, but after east-
ing a glance upon his countenance, she
drew back in ill-disguised dismay -
"who is this man I"
"Who?" said the bootmaker, in per-
plexity, 'is it not ----"
"Again I demand !" said the lady,
with augmenting energy, as her eyes
flashed fire, "who is this minn?"
"This man," replied the stranger,with
coolness and deliberation, is a gentle-
man, who has the honor of being Hu-
bert Vane."
"You Herbert Vane!" responded the
lady, contemptuously.
"Doubtlessly, madam," rejoined the
stranger, austerely.

"You are an imposter, " quoth the
judge's wife, decisively.
"That is a grave accusation," re-
marked Delamore.
"And, nevertheless, most true," add-
ed Mrs. Littleton.
"Who dares make such a charge
against me?" inquired Delamore, be-
stowing a contemptuous smile on his
accuser.
"I do," said th judge's lady, defiant-
ly, "and I public  declare and will ever
maintain that you are neither Hubert'
Vane nor the father of the girl known
to us as Genevieve." i
"Take care, my honorable and re-
spected lady,'' retorted the stranger,
with malignant emphasis upon his
words, "there is but one living being in
this wide world who could sustain so
sweeping and definite an assertion; and
that being is the woman who rejoices as
having been the mother of the found-
ling."
Mrs. Littleton sighed audibly ; for in
this semi-enigmatical threat, sufficient
was conveyed to show that she was in
the power of the stranger were she com-
pelled to avow the secret of the girl's
nativity, which had been concealed for
so many years, and was now in the
keeping of a dissolute adventurer.
"The Hon. Mrs. Littleton," resumed
Delamore, in a careless manner of
speech, "was originally, ~if I believe
rightly, a Miss Henrietta Desmond."
"Lost!" ejaculated the lady, as a cold
shudder passed over her entire frame-
then reassuming courage, she continued;
in her ordinary tone of voice, as the
stranger smiled at her agitation.
"I am ignorant, sir," she said indig-
nantly, "as to what interest you have
in the contemplated marriage of Gene-
vieve ?"
"' A. very great interest, indeed," re-
sponded Delamore grimly-"in fact, it
can be with difficulty computed in del
lars and cents."

"Neither, ca I compass the design,"
resumedrj4lh14 dy, growing more and
more collected as she progressed in her
harangue,.'"which you have in exhum-
ing this terrible secret, which you have
obtained byeomeostratagem. But lis-
ten, sir. If it is money you desire, de-
i and from, me em, twenty or even fifty
thousand do,1s al?.that I am worth-"
"You place too much value on my in-
,terestedness,"{ responded the stranger,
sarcastically ; 'but,; madam, you must
excuse me, as I have pledged my wordy
and honor to Mr. Morey that the mar -
r4age shalltake place-so you perceive
it must,!"
"Never, sir, never !" quoth the lady,
in a decided manner.
"But how can you prevent it ?" in-
qufrd Delamore, with a threatening
expression of cou;itenance ; " I have it
Within my power to reclaim this child
which is aeuied to you. Reflect, I en-
treat of you, upon the delicacy of your
"But should I refuse to surrender her
up '' said Mr. Littleton. ,
"Yes, if we should'refuso to :give her
up ?" chimed in the bootmaker.
"Then, madam," replied the-adven-
turerer, boldly and haughtily, "since
time has effected such changes in my
features as not to be recognizable in
your eyMe, it may not have wrought the
same -wonder on my parchments and
documentary evidences,which this gen-
tleman has already viewed. In a word,
I shall be compelled to resort to law to
enforce my rights."
"Your rights ?" inquired Mrs. Little-
ton, astounded at the imposter's con-
tinued assumption of another's charac-
ter.
"Yes, madam, my rights'!" repeated
Delamore, with a vigorous demonstra-
tion, of energy. By the -way, before
your husband, the judge, must come the
investigation of my pretensions-so you
see that it will be a purely family-mat-
ter ---"

"This is most iniquitous," muttered
the lady, sorely vexed at the idea of
having her first fault reviewed by a de-
ceived husband, from whom knowledge
of the past had been cautiously con-
cealed.
"Yes, madam, to your husband," con-
tinued Delamore, in a menacing man-
ner, "I will remit proofs of my pater-
nity. And will you dare-contest them?
Will you have the hardihood of pre-
senting yourself before your liege lord
and declare to him that I nor any other
man is not the father of your child °"
"Pity-for heaven's sake, have pity
on me !" and the aristocratic lady threw
herself upon her knees to implore mercy
from the persecutor-"break not the
heart cf a fond, a doating, sorrow-
stricken mother ! I plead pardon not
for my own sake, but that of my child !
Listen to me, and have mercy on the
weakness of my sex !"
"My faith is pledged, madam," quoth
Delamore, with vindictive-animosity -
"Genevieve must marry Marcy !"
"Your heart is then steeled a ainst
our prayers," again pleaded the judge's
{ lady, "and there is no other means to
avert shame and ruin ?"
"And do you not tremble, least you
may find some honest man," interposed
Christopher, advancing to the imposter,
"who may crush you out of existence
like a venomous beast-like a-"
"I fear nothing, my chivalric' boot-
maker," returned Delamore, with a look
of supreme disdain, "and least of all
from you."
"We'll see about that," responded the
artisan.
"The law protects me," resumed the
stranger. "Now, madam, in an hour
hence I will return for your definite
answer."
The man of mystery folded his arms,
and sting a keen but galling glance,
strode rapidly from the apartment,
leaving the plebian artisan and his aris-

THE BOOT MAKER OF THE FIFTH AVENUE.

87

86

" " Frw
1     t ,
Y
F
4
1
k
i
t
i
c
t
t    f
i
,    rl
i
k
- t;
}
r
F
yy
,,r yi
yr
111.E


THE BOOT MAKER OF THE FIFTH AVENUE.

THE BOOT MAKER OF THE FIFTH AVENUE.

tocratic patron in a state of profound "among those papers of Herbert Vane
consternation, at the inevitable conse- may be discovered some proof as to the
quences of the stranger's revelations, imposition of this man, v ho has un..
should he persist in his nefarious ad- doubtedly appropriated others to his
venture.                           own use."
"Is there no power in my right arm  "It may be so," remarked the lady,
to confound this miserable reptile ?" dubiously.
inquired the artisan anxiously, as he  "These documents," resumed the
followed the retreating figure oftthe im- bootnaiker, after a momentary pause,
poster with his eyes, and witched his "should not be read under fifteen days,
every action With the zealous vigilance for I have taken especial pains to ascer-
a cat bestows upon her prey. "Shall ho tamn the exact period of her birth, and
be allowed to annoy and harrass us with find that upon that -day Genevieve at-
impunity t"                       tains her eighteenth year. Well, is it
"My dea- friend, be not discouraged," advisable to await the prescribed term,
said the judge's lady, as she walked the or shall the package be opened thief very
floor lost in meditation ; "this man is an day, if through it we can save the
imposter-but how are we to prove the I child ?"
fact   He has undoubtedly stolen the  "Assuredly, my dear sir," replied the
papers of Herbert Vane ; but what are judge's Ldy, "the safety of Genevieve
we to reply to him when he shows them should anticipate all other considera-
authenticated, as they must be."  tions. In the name of Herbert Vane I
The lady wiped away her falling absolve you from any obligation you
tears.    /                        have assumed. Should it prove to be
"My poor child," she murmured, al- the means of eradicating this misfor-
most' inaudibly, "I have but refound tune, rest assured that the father will
her o behold her unfortunate,sacrificed pardon the saviour of his child." And
to I know not what conspiracy, which I the lady sobbed as she thought on the
am powerless to frustrate. Is there no past.
means of escape for my darling ?"   "Then be it so," rejoined Christopher,
"Madam," said the bootmaker, tap- "and let us be of good hope. I will run
ping his head knowingly, "I have a immediately to Bernardthe banker, who
little idea, and who knows but that has been charged with their custody.
something may come out of it ;" and In his presence the papers can be open-
Christopher stopped  to perfect his ed-and may heaven give us the sue-
scheme.                           cess we pray for !"
"What is it I" inquired the lady, in  "May the good man succeed I" mut-
evident anxiety.                   tered the Hon. Mrs. Littleton, as Chris-
"When poor Mary Vernon bequeathed topper departed upon his errand. "0,
me, with her dying breath," replied the Gad, grant that the machinations of this
bootmaker in due sincerity of heart, vile wretch mury be frustrated, for in
"the trust of bringing up Genevieve, Thy keeping have been entrusted the
she committed to my charge a portfolio destiny of this poor child, whom to this
of docu'uents,with strict directions that natal hour have I dared to recognise as
it should not be opened until the child my own, my dear daughter!"
had attained her eighteenth year."
The mother made a mental calcula-
tion to ascertain the date.                      -------
"Possibly," continued the artisan,

88

CHAPTER XIX.
CONFESSIONS OF TILE HEART.
"Mother-my mother ! and the privi-
lege de::ied me of outspeaking my heart
to her who gave ie birth. Why should
she blush for me even if I have been
the offspring of love. But I will save
her from further shame, for she has suf-
fered too deeply '"
While Mrs. Littleton was pacing the
apartment, lost in the contemplation of
the distressing events hourly compli-
cating around her, the fair and gentle
Genevieve noiselessly entered the little
parlor of the artisan, and watched her
parent's actions in the deepest of solici-
tude. Her resolution was instantly
taken.
"What ails thee, my dear child?"
murmured Mrs. Littleton, as she clasp-
ed Genevieve to her bosom, noticing
that the young girl was pale, trembling
and melancholy; "why have you cause
for tears'? Come, tell your poor mo-
ther, who should weep for two."
"1I have at this moment no cause for
tears," quoth Genevieve, affectionately
casting a loving glance upon her parent
-"on the contrary, this appears the
brightest moment in my existence."
"You have doubtlessly received some
tidings of Dr. Morand 7" inquired the
lady, endeavoring to compose her agi-
tation.
"No, no, madam, it is not upon that
account," replied the girl.
"Nevertheless, you love him," re-
marked Mrs. Littleton, feelingly ; "and
must be delighted at the near approach
of your -marriage."
"That marriage willnever take place,"
rejoined the maiden, with more than
ordinary warmth of speech, as her eyes
sparkled in intensity of will, "I have
no desire to be the bride of Dr. Mu-
rand."
And upon what account ?" question-
ed the mother, anxiously.

"Because he loves another," replied
Genevieve, curtly.
"But who has told you this?" inter-
rogated the judge's lady.
"I am aware of it," observed the girl,
evidencing that strong will and mature
deliberation distinguishing an inde-
pendent character  "my resolution is
taken, and I will not marry him !"
"Have a care, .my child," cautiously.
interposed the parent, as she caressed
her I eloved; "take not a step for which
you will have cause for regret hereaf-
ter-act with caution and reflection."
"I have done so, mother," quoth the
girl, bending her head for consolation
on her parent's bosom; "I have thought
over the matter more than once-I have
weighed my future and yours ; and for
very good reasons I am determined to
adhere to my choice."
"And pray, dear, what are these rea-
sons?" inquired the mother, with a smile
of precaution, "what have wrought so
wondrous a change in the affections of
youth ?"
"Think not, mother, that I regret the
step," responded Genevieve, exhibiting
a sagacity and penetration far beyond
her years; " on the contrary, I have
scarcely known Stephen for the past
three years. That I loved him, it is
true ; but that for which I loved him,
was his honesty,his courage under diffi-
culties, his energy during privations,
and his unquenchable: thirst for knowl-
edge. But the possession of money de-
stroyed every one of these virtues. It
has breathed into his soul egotism, cor-
ruption, selfishness and vanity. Mad-
am, I could never love such a man as he
has turned to be.'!
"And has your father knowledge of
this resolution ?"
"No, madam."
"What wi.l the good man think?" said
Mrs. Littleton, "who has battled so en-
ergetically against every obstacle, and
against even the impulses of his own

89

\ t  R
I)' ~


90

THE BOOT MAKER OF THE FIFTH AVENUE.

heart, that this marriage should be ac-
complished."
" Against the impulses of his own
heart !" uttered Genevieve, in wonder.
"1Yes, Genevieve," responded her
mother, gravely, "this honest artisan,
who has nurtured and brought you up,
viewed your progress toward woman-
hood with admiration. He regarded
with the affection a parent bestows upon
a child ; then little by little the value
of that love changed - secretly he
adores you as a suitor!"
"My poor father!" ejaculated the,
young girl, despite herself.
"One day," resumed Mrs. Littleton,
"he went to you to unburden his heart;
then he learned that youloved another.
The worthy man stifled the knowledge
of his secret within himself, and wiped
away his tears with self-sacrificing re-
solution; for he said to himself-what
matters how much I suffer if Genevieve
be happy."
"Noble and generous friend !" mur-
mured the young girl; "and I to be ig-
norant of all this. Alas, how many
hours of care and of vexation may I have
caused him! But, mother, know that
in forgetting Stephen, I have made
another choico,which may please him."
"Another choice?" inquired Mrs. Lit-
tleton, nervously.
"I have set my choice upon a man ;"
and Genevieve blushed deeply, "who
loves me; for he has told me he does-"
"And who is that man 1' interrupted
her mother.
"Mr. Marcy."
"Mr. Marcy!" repeated the lady; "the
thing is impossible. Genevieve, you
are imposed upon."
"No, madam, I assure you ---"
"You have been imposed upon, Ge-
nevieve," repeated the lady energeti-
cally ; "I appreciate your conduct, my
dearest girl-you, would immolate your-
self to save my reputation."

"Do not believe it to be so," sobbed
the maiden.
"Deceive me not,Genevieve," resum-
ed Mrs. Littleton, with augmented ve-
hemence - "you are about to sacri-
fice yourself; for, alas! you have learn-
ed the name of your mother !"
"My mother !" and Genevieve vainly
endeavored to dissemble. "Madam, I
do not thoroughly comprehend your
meaning."
"And yet you tremble, you weep !"
retorted the lady, smilingly. "0, Gene-
vieve, will you persist in denial, when
these arms are open for thy reception?
Feel you not the mandates of nature I',
"Mother-dearest mother ! You are
indeed my mother !" and the young
girl, overpowered by emotions, threw
herself, half insensible, half frantic, into
the open arms of her newiy-found rela-
tive.
"My daughter, my dearest daughter!"
quoth the lady, as she embraced the
lovely girl ; "well worthy are you of
my love; for the first action, upon dis-
covering the secret of your birth, was
to devote yourself to her salvation. But
I will not sanction so lofty a sacrifice
on the contrary, I am resolved at all
hazards to secure your future happi-
ness. Hence this marriage with Marcy
shall no., t ke place -- hear my words,
Geneviev  shall not take place !"
"And, madam, how are you to pre-
vent it?'
Mother and daughter started at hear-
ing these sinister words, as ill-omened
as the croak of the raven. It was the
voice of D-lamore, who had glided si-
lently into the apartment during the
moment of distraction which followed'
the recognition of paternal relations.
"Prevent it !" ejaculated the judge's
lady, nerved to desperation, "easily.
You have threatened to lay your case
before my husband. Come, then, and
let Mr. Littleton adjudicate between us.
Indeed, sir, I demand that he be con-
sulted."

THE BOOT MAKER OF THE FIFTH AVENUE.                   91
"You demand, madam," said Dela-, ment; but ere she withdrew she bestow-
more, with a smile.                ed a glance of scorn upon her hereto-
"What say you, mother I" interrupt- fore defiant tormentor.
ed Genevieve, in alarm.
"I tell you plainly," returned Mrs.
Littleton, determinedly, "I will avow    CHAPTER THE LAST.
everything to my husband. He may
drive me from his home-hemar even      AN AGREEABLE SURPRISE.
kill me-but you, Genevieve, shall be
saved. Yes, my child, your welfare   "Well, sir, what do you want with
must be secured at all hazards."   me 7"
"No, mother, I desire no such misery  Delamore, the stranger, spoke harsh-
in your case."                    ly; but it was perceptible that he was
"It is the exaltation of madness, miss," ill at ease, and nervous as to the nature
said Delamore--"when your mother of the bootmaker's communication. In
comes to reflect -''              truth, there was a confidence, a tone of
"Think you that after suffering this exultation, insidiously conveyed in the
child to have undergone fifteen years of words of the mechanic, which mate-
abandonment," interrupted Mrs. Little- rially damaged the effect of the arro-
ton, "I will consent to condemn her to gant swagger which the adventurer had
a life-long misery of tears and wretch- persistently assumed.
ednessI No, sir. I will authorize no  "Five minutes of interview, that's
such martyrdom. My daughter, your all," replied Christopher, as he retired
day of sorrow is past-mine is to come." to the entrance door, which he double
"0, mother, let me implore you upon locked.
my bonded knees," interposed Gene-   "What are you doing ?" demanded
vieve, falling semi-prostrate before her Delamore sternly.
parent, "do not ruin yourself on my ac-  "Locking the door," returned the ar-
count --"                          tisan boldly ; " your communications
"Not another word;' said Mrs. Little- are so interesting that I am resolved to
ton firmly, raising Genevieve from the keep every one else from hearing them."
ground; "this is the penalty of my first "Make haste, then," said the stran-
fault-your welfare will constitute its ger, "for I must be going."
reparation. Sir, tihis child is not yours;  "If you only knew what I am about
no, sir, by the law it is mine. Reclaim to tall you," interposed Christopher,
your rights, and I am fully prepared to "I am certain you would be in no hurry.
avow my shame."                    I believe you stated that you are [Her-
"Blame only yourself, as the than- bert Vane?"
derbolt must fall !"     -           " I have so stated," returned the
The stranger advanced towards the stranger.
judge's lady as he uttered these words;  "Will you swear to that fact?"
but the lady braved his threatening  "I'can prove it, which is a thousand
glance, when she found herself sustain- times better."
ed by the protecting presence of the  "Well," continued the bootmaker,
bootmaker.                         producing a portfolio of documents, "as
"Excuse me, ladies," quoth Christo- you are-Herbert Vane, you may possi-
pher, in an off-hand manner ; "and if bly recognise-these papers. That's your
you consent to .await a little while and handwriting, is it not I"
allow me a few minutes' conversation  "It is mine."
with this gentleman, I am certain that "You identify them," resumed Chris-
we shall come to some understanding." topher,. in a business-like manner -
The eyes of Mrs. Littleton brighten- "they are the same which you commit-
ed, fot she conceived that the enthusi- ted to Mary Vernon."
asm  of the bootmaker foreboded a    "Mary Vernon!" ejaculated the stran-
triumph on her part.               ger, trembling, from head to foot.
"Have you discovered any evidence?" geWhen you confided Genevieve along
she inquired in a whisper.         with them," added the bootmaker, no-
"Possibly," returned the mechanic ;. ticing the effect produced upon his au-
"only lead Genevieve hence."       ditor by the mention of the murdered
The matron took her child by the woman's name; "that was fifteen years
-4ggdgad eggdotedlherfrom the apart- ago ."


92          THE BOOT MAKER OF THE FIFTH AVENUE.
"About that time."            (I"Christopher Last," said the stran-
"Let us glean-the tenor of these do- ger, trembling at every joint, "you de-
cuments, " said Christopher, opening sign to intimidate in-you'd not have
one of the parchments and placing it blood upon your hands. You are not a
beneath the eyes of the imposter; "but man to slay another."
as it is in your handwriting, you had  "As sure as there is a God in heaven,"
better read -"                    raising aloft his trenchant blade, "and
Delamore endeavored to avoid con- you are Herbert Vane, I will slaughter
plying with this mandate, but observ- you like a fattened calf."
ing the artisan resolute, he read as fol-  -Mercy-mercy !" shrieked the im-
lows:--                            poster, in despair.
"I leave for my child, in the hands of  "Are you Herbert Vane I" demanded
Bernard the banker, the sum of one Christopher.
hundred thousand dollars, which in the  "I am not," replied the stranger,
course of eighteen years will be aghast with fear.
worth ---"                          "You avow being an imposter !" con-
"Never mind details," said the boot- tinuedl the shoemaker.
maker, authoritatively, "it willbe a  "I do most honestly," rejoined Dela-
very pretty dowry for the little one-so more.
skip towards the end."              "For fear of mistakes," added Chris-
The stranger mechanically followed topher, "we may as well put that con-
directions, and continued-        fession down in writing-it will save
"Perchance I may never again see my trouble hereafter."
child, for ---"                     "I am ready," said the stranger, ab-
"That is the interesting point," in- jeetly.
terrupted the mechanic.             The bootmaker, still maintaining his
"For I am compelled to fly from the threatening attitude, produced pen, ink
land of my birth, an outlaw, charged and paper. Then forcing the imposter
with murder, and a price set upon my to assume a seat at the table, dictated
head --"                          to him as follows:-'
The bootmaker clapped his hands.  "I acknowledge to have attempted
"If I understand the law," said Chris- falsely to personate Herbert Vane, de-
topher deliberately, "an outlaw is at ceased in Europe ten years since; and
the mercy of any man, for he brings his I admit that the documents in my pos-
price dead or alive. In fact, it is op- session were stolen from him, and used-
tional whether he is captured living or by me for fraudulent purposes."
defunct---and I prefer this last."  "Very good so far," said the artisan ;
"Would you murder me t" demanded "all it wants is your signature - your
Delamore-                         true name. By the way, where were
"Not murder, that indeed would be you bora 1"
illegal," calmly responded the boot-  "I was born in the village of Beau-
maker, "merely exterminate, as we do view."               0
a mad dog or a poisonous reptile-that  "Then you are the man I have been
is what I have a right to do, and that is looking for," rejoined Christopher -
what I intend doing !"            sign your true name-Walter Devin !"
"You dare not, vile mechanic."    "That is not my name," said Dela-
"We'll see about that ;" and the boot- more.
maker drew forth his long, sharp and  "I know better," replied'the artisan,
pointed shoe knife, such as he used at preserving his assumption of menace-
his trade ; "you see that I will kill you "your life depends upon the truth."
scientifically, as an accomplished shoe-  "It is sighed," quoth the imposter,
maker."                           pointing to the signature.
"You dare not shed my blood," said  "Quite correct-Walter Devin I" and
the imposter imploringly.         the mechanic smiled grimly.
"I dare not," returned Christopher,  "Anything further to detain me ?"
"when you would assassinate every- asked the stranger.
thing I love. Now look me in the face,  "Not on this particular business,"
and comprehend that I am decided. On replied Christopher, going to the door
your knees, Herbert Vane, and prepare of the apartment, which he opened po-
for death. You listen, I tell you, on the litely.
verge of the grave."                Walter Devia advauwed t mak ble

THE BOOT MAKER OF THE FIFTH AVENUE.

leave, but the athletic frame of the boot-
maker barred his passage. Suddenly
placing his head through the portals,
the mechanic gave a shrill, clear whis-
tle.
At this summons the little parlor be-
came filled with a throng of spectators,
foremost among whom stood two detec-
tive officers, backed by a couple of me-
tropolitan policemen in their uniforms ;
while the rear was brought up by Ni-
cholas Strap, who apparently enjoyed
the scene with the relish of his master.
"'Gentlemen," quoth Christopher,
pointing to the culprit, " this man has
signed his confession of being an im-
poster."
"Genevieve," quoth Mrs. Littleton,
joyously, "this is not Herbert Vane."
"I admit it," said the stranger ; "and
let me depart in peace."
"Your society is too precious," inter-
posed the bootmaker, authoritatively ;
"I have discharged my duty to the liv-
ing ; I have now a duty-to avenge the
dead !"
The assemblage turned mechanically
towards the speakeT.
"He has moreover declared," contin-
ued Christopher,as he pointed his finger
towards the imposter, "that his true
name is Walter Devin. Ignorant that
the woman he so basely assassinated
was living at the time of his flight, that
rhan knew not that, with her dying
breath, she named him who slew her. I
now demand the arrest of Walter Devin,
whom I brand as the murderer of Mary
Vernon !"
"Mary Vernon !" muttered the cul-
prit, pale from excess of fear.
"He has not forgotten her name," re-
sumed the bootmaker, "although fifteen
years are past. Officers, perform your
duty !"
The lapse of a few instants sufficed
for the police to manacle and carry off
the assassin, more dead than alive.
" Christopher, my honest friend,"
quoth the judge's lady, after order had
been restored within the artisan's hum-
ble domicil, "you have been my saviour
and that of my darling child,"
"Heaven has aided me,", responded

93

the mechanic respectfully. "And now
Genevieve can marry Stephen Morand."
"No, I will never marry that man,"
interrupted the girl.
"And why not?" in quired Christo-
pher, perfectly astonished.
"Because I no longer love him;" and
Genevieve blushed deeply, "because I
love another."
The enthusiasm of the bootmaker
vanished-his limbs tottered beneath
him, and he would have fallen to the
floor, had not the stalwart arms of his
apprentice sustained his sinking frame.
"All my labor lost !" exclaimed Chris-
topher, with a sigh.
"Hear me to the end, my dearest
friend," interposed Genevieve, taking
the mechanic's hand, "I am resolved
that our relations shall undergo but a
trivial change."
"What say you ?" exclaimed Chris-
topher, reassuring his prior anima-
tion; "explain to me, madam."
"I say, my friend," quoth Genevieve,
kneeling at his side, "that I shall some
day love you as you have ever loved
me."
"Genevieve !" exclaimed the artisan,
rapturously.
"Yes, my worthy neighbor," said
Mrs. Littleton, proudly, "my child is
no ingrate. If she ceases to honor you
as a father, she enters upon a new ca-
reer as an affectionate wife."
"Genevieve my wife!" and the worthy
Christopher, in joyousness of spirit,
implanted a warm kiss upon the pout-
ing lips of his intended bride. "The
dream of my life's ambition has come
to pass !"
"Hooray I" roared Nicholas Strap, as
he capered about the chamber in an
ecstacy of joy, "the boss has done it !
Bless his old soul, he's kissed the girl
for the first time in his life !" And the
apprentice resumed his dance of joy.
"Yes, Nicholas," responded the me-
chanic, affectionately, "the mission of
my life has been accomplished. May
you, Nicholas, now that your appren-
ticeship has ceased, meet with equal
happiness. Remember, it remains with
yourself to make yourself worthy, like
me, of having been a BOOTMAKER.

THE END.

m

!


  
             
         
       
   
