
    ----CITATION----
        Perryman, E. G.. Our New Minister .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC7420
    ----FULL TEXT----
         
      
         
            Our new minister 
            
                 OUR NEW MINISTER. BY E. G. PERRYMAN. -RAN" NEW-YORK:  NO. 2 BIBLE HOUSE.    Entered according to Act of Congress, in the year 1875, by T. WHTTAKlR, In the Office of the Librarian of Congress at Washington.  TO Iatkpr. "Shall I go on? Or have I said enough?"-MLTON.   "Near yonder copse, where once the garden smil'd, And still where many a garden flower grows wild, There, where a few torn shrubs the place disclose, The village preacher's modest mansion rose." GOLDSMITH.   CHAPTER    1. HE Parish of St. Peter's was va- cant. Nothing very wonderful, for" vacancy" is a chronic af- fection of village churches, and St. Peter's was hardly an exception to the ordinary rule. The church was one of rare beauty, both in architectural design and natural surroundings. A mingling of the old Norman and Gothic styles was adopted in the building, in order to satisfy the fancies of two of the largest contributors, each of whom considered their style the only fit one for a place of worship, Doctor Pilston advocated the Norman, as be- ing the most aristocratic, and insisted that Dissenting chapels were the most becoming places for the lower classes to meet for wor- ship. Mr. Edwards thought the Gothic was   6     Our New Minister. more in accordance with the wishes of the younger members of the parish, and so advo- cated that plan, although his own individual preference was for a plain, square building, with two doors in the gable end, and no cen- tre aisle. These two conflicting views were harmonized by a skilful architect, by blend- ing the two in such a manner that the result, was a building reflecting great credit upon the designer. It stood upon the site of one of the old colonial churches, and within the enclosure reposed the ashes of many whose names and deeds make up an interesting part of the early history of Maryland. A grove of for- est oaks, a row of Lombardy poplars, a rip- pling stream hard by, with its banks cov- ered with laurel, and its approaches redolent with the perfume of arbutus and wild honey- suckle, made the location not only impres- sive, but attractive. Higl above the tallest tree loomed a corner tower, whose graceful finish was a gilded arrow, pointing weak (hu- manity to rest and peade in a better Canaan. ', ,]    Our New -Minister.,     7 This arrow was also a compromise between the above-named gentlemen, one of whom wanted a cross, and the other a weathercock. Parson Crumby had been rector for more than twenty years, but had now resigned for the fourth time; having reconsidered his ac- tion on each previous occasion, though now he " meant business," for he had actually ac- cepted another charge, and was about to en- ter upon his new duties. Once he had resigned because he was unable to support an increas- ing family on three hundred a year; this diffi- culty was relieved by offering him the free use of the vestry-house, where he might open a school. Once he resigned for reasons not A   given; under such circumstances no vestry- man's wife would allow her husband to vote an acceptance. After a few more years of pa- tient service and suffering lie resigned again; this time as a " feeler," so stated in a private conversation with his old friend the Doctor, who could not at first comprehend what was meant by a "feeler," until explained that it ; was to test the feeling of the congregation   8     Our New Minister. as to whether they desired a change of pas- tor; but some shrewdly surmised that he was feeling the pecuniary pulse of his people. The most serious charge ever brought against this good old man, was his occasional use of "slang." It even cropped out in his sermons, for once he declared that the benefits of an unbroken succession in the ministry were not what they were " cracked up" to be., At last he resigned in earnest; it was accepted; the parish was vacant; and some one must be elected to fill his place. What qualifications in his successor were most important, no six could agree. The matter was the universal topic of conversation. At tea parties, the post-office, vendues, huskings, choir meetings, and Sunday-school, the whole question was thoroughly ventilated. The rectors of all the prominent churches in the country were gravely suggested, and their claims sifted. St. Peter's was considered a parish that would be much sought after. By consider- able effort the salary was raised to six hun- dred a year, and it was near the city. For a   i        Our New Minister.      9 greater part of the year the roads were good, and one of the earliest rectors had, in after years, been 'made a bishop. Several minis- ters were invited to preach a trial sermon, but none seemed to satisfy all expectations. The Rev. John Priest had a foreign accent, which could not be tolerated. The Rev. Henry Ritual was considered too advanced for a rural charge. The"Rev. Harvey Lowe was not sufficiently reverent in his rendering of the service. The Rev. Christian Smithl was a married' man, and would not (draw" the young. Each vestryman had his favorite, and each vestry-meeting left the matter un- settled. Occasional services were kept up, at -intervals, for six months, until it was deter- mined to end the dificulty by leaving it to a "committee of nomination."  They pre- sented the names of two candidates, from whom a choice' must be made. The Rev. Hawks White, D. D., of New York, and the Rev. Douglas Stirling of Virginia. Mr. Ed- wards advocated the claims of Dr. White, who had lately'delivered an address at Ga- '  I '      . '    to     Our New Minister. lena College, and presented the library with several ancient volumes, for which the last commencement had conferred upon him the degree of Doctor of Divinity; his sermons never exceeded thirty minutes; his dress and deportment were ministerial, and Mrs. Pils- ton informed him that she had observed him closely at the table, and he always ate with his fork, though his grandfather had been a storekeeper. Of the other candidate but little was known. He was a young man with- out family, and when the war broke out was a student in the Theological Seminary; lie left his studies, and served as captain in the Confederate service, until the existing cool- ness between North and South was at an end. The want of more accurate knowledge, and the fact of his being a single man, secured his election; although the other candidate had some very strong supporters. After due notice had been given of his election, he sig- nified his acceptance, and, of course, the next excitement was to see, and hear, and know, "our new minister."   CHAPTER II. H, Carrie, have you seen him?" exclaimed Belle Warren, as she sipped her tea at Mr. Andrewes' table. "Seen whho!" was Miss Carrie's reply to such an abrupt question. "Why, our new minister, he is perfectly heavenly!" "Perfectly heavenly?" "Yes, so: nice; tall-dark, curly hair--high forehead-dreamy eyes-side whiskers-parts his hair almost in the middle--beautiful hand and foot, and his first name is Douglas, ain't it sweet? and Mrs. Baker says he wears crape on his hat because his motlher and father are both dead, and he has no near relation, ex- cept an old bachelor uncle, who educated   12    OOur New Minister. him, and calls him his 'boy,' and he is twenty- five'years old, and-" "Do hush, Belle," interrupted Carrie, "I never heard any one talk at such a rate, and know so much, in such a little while. When did you see Mr. Stirling?" "Why, I saw him at the station, when he left the train; I happened "to be passing the depot, and-" "You 'happened' to be passing by; you knew he was expected on the three o'clock train," said Carrie. "I knew no such thing," indignantly an- swered Belle; "at least-I thought-well- have it your own way, you are only worried because I saw him first." "Worried! what difference will Mr. Stir- ling's advent make to me?" and lifting her eyes, Miss Carrie bestowed upon a young gentleman sitting upon the opposite side of the table a smile, that was something more than " childlike and bland." "You must pardon Belle," said her broth- er, "you know she always goes into raptures   Our New Minister.     13 over every new acquaintance; in the native goodness of her heart she thinks every hand- some man an angel-if he is single." "Yes," replied his sister, "and you always spoil a compliment by saying too much, will you ever learn to let well enough alone?" "I do not mean to disparage your idol," added Edgar, "I have no doubt, from what I have heard, that our new minister will prove a very good and useful man." "What have you heard?"Carrie was about to say, but Belle's words were as quick as thought. "Well, it is not all hearsay, for we were to- gether at Trinity College." "Oh! Edgar, you never told us that be- fore!" exclaimed Belle.' "No," said her brother, "and unless you give some one else a chance to talk, I shall not have an opportunity to tell you any mnore."                 . "Proceed, then," said the impatient sister, "for I am just dying to hear all about him." "When we 'were together at college,"- re-   "    Our New 1Minister. sumed Edgar, "our rooms were upon the same floor. Though Douglas was in the sen- ior class, and I was only a sophomore, we saw much of each other every evening, either smoking together or forming plans for some practical joke. On one occasion we, dressed as servants, each borrowing some article of fe- male attire, and together we answered in per- son all the advertisements for cooks that ap- peared in the morning papers, engaging five families, to report next day for work. If the weather happened to be excessively cold, we would climb to the top of the cupola at mid- night, and turning the big bell bottom up- wards, fill it slowly with water until it was frozen, and then have an extra hour or two for sleep in the morning. One Hallow-eve we changed several signs in the village, sub- stituting the undertaker's coffin for Dr. Jones' shingle; tacking 'Lager Beer' over Parson Stewart's door-plate; and finished up the evening's work, by securing a hornet's nest, pushing some cotton in the entrance, and at the proper moment take it out, and quickly   Our New Minister.     lS toss the nest in the open window of a parlor where a dance was in progress, then hide and watch the result." "Oh how wicked!" exclaimed-Belle. "Well," said Edgar, "it is due to Douglas to say, that whenever he could modify our plans he would do so, but finding us bent on mischief, he would generally make one of the party. He had such a quiet demeanor, and such an innocent look, that he always es- caped suspicion or detection, and left col- lege with the highest honors. At that time I lost sight of him, and only heard his name again in connection with our vacant par- ish." ' You may as well reserve your comments," said Mr Andrewes, "for next Sunday you will all have an opportunity to see and hear for yourselves; I do hope he may be the means of making you young folks take a greater in- terest in Church affairs than you have ever done before, for you well know our old rec- tor had few to share his burdens." "Yes," said his wife, "it was indeed shame-   x6     Our New AMinister. ful for him to have the fires to make, the pews to dust, the Christmas greens to hang, and dear knows what all to do."       3; "I only hope he is 'High Church,'" said   I Belle, "it sounds so much nicer, and Higll Churchmen are most always gentlemen--"  "Yes," interrupted Carrie, "and high liv-  ers, high falutin and high-"  "Hush, Carrie," was her mother's rebuke,  "how is it you and Belle cannot converse without using harsh expressions. I doubt if, either of you know  the meaning of 'Higll Church' or 'Low Church.' " "I know," said Belle, "it means wearing  pretty stoles, and having matins, and even  song, and whispers--" "Vespers, you mean," interposed Edgar.  "Yes; and banners, and book-marks, and  crosses, and flowers; and I am sure Mr. Stir- ling is fond of children, for this afternoon lie met Kate Butler coming home   from school, and seeing her crying, he asked the cause, and when she told him Bob Grant had taken her character from her, he called the boy   up and found he was angry and jealous be- cause their teacher had written' excellent' in Kate's character book, and had only put ' tol- erably good' in his." "Next Sunday he is to preach his first sermon," said Mr. Andrewes, "and to-morrow evening he has promised to meet the choir for rehearsal. I suppose you will be there, Carrie, to practice your part?" "Oh, no,". said Belle, "she won't sing now, because the organ is in the gallery, and not on the floor, where she can get a good look at the preacher, and at the same time show her new bonnet to advantage." "That is not my reason for wanting the organ near thie chancel," responded Carrie; "you know very well that in ancient times the part of thie church building which you now call chancel was then called the choir, because the music was, intended to be as much a part of public worship as the prayers, and the whole congregation would then join i; but now the fancy seems to be for a 'first-class performer' at each end of the 2   I 8    Our New Miv'nister. church, whilst' the whole congregation are simply listeners or spectators." "Come, come," said Mr. Andrewes, "let us have no more discussion on this subject, about which we are all more or less ignorant; if you will adjourn with me to the parlor, I will show you a new engraving I have just re- ceived: it is the House of Bishops, but I cannot find our own beloved diocesan in the group, and if he is there, the artist has so many embellishments, that I am  unable to trace any resemblance."   F CHAPTER    III. HE long hoped for- Sunday came at last. It was a lovely autumn day, so clear and quiet that the lowing of cattle on distant hills could be distinctly heard. The noise of the anvil, the rattle of wagons, the engine's shrill whis- tie, were all hushed in a Sabbath stillness. So gradually had the weather been growing colder, that the foliage had scarcely begun to fall, though the frost had given it every con- ceivable tint and color. Now and then were seen flocks of birds, journeying to their south- ern home; seeming to chant, as they passed along, the praises of Him who suffers " nob a sparrow to fall Without His notice." The husbandman's "busy season" was over, and his gathered grain safely stored in barn or   20     Our New Minister, barrack, waiting for a market, or saved for home consumption. It was to be a mem-     orable and trying day for the new rector of  St. Peter's. His ardent desire was to give v satisfaction in the discharge of duty. Doug- las Stirling had seen muchl of the world,  though he was still young in years. His par- ents had lived in affluence, and their son had every luxury, until the vicissitudes of war de- prived them  of the means of gratifying all their desires; nor did either long survive its  close. As a boy, he had talent and applica- tion, a rare combination, giving early promise of making a mark in the world. Possessed of a generous and impulsive nature, he was prompt to appreciate a kindness, and quick   to make returns. An active life, with a fond- I ness for hunting and riding, had given him a  vigorous constitution, which enabled him to endure considerable study and fatigue. In the calling which he had chosen he was arc- tuated both by a  desire to do good and a laudable ambition to excel in whatever plans he might undertake. He was now about to   C/ur lVew iumister.     21 enter, upon duties in which, heretofore, he had been only an assistant. It being his first Sunday in the parish the church was of course filled to its capacity. The multitude of earnest, upturned faces that met his gaze inspired him with a correspond- ing earnestness, that was most becoming to his subject, which was the "Diuty of Self- denyihg Labor in the Church." The lives of apostles, martyrs," and reformers, were illus- trations, apt and appropriate. He pictured the labors and sacrifices of missionaries, for- eign and domestic, who had relinquished the sweet endearments of home, to brave the dan- ger and disease of a distant shore, and per- haps peril their lives for the salvation of souls. He warmed with" his subject, until every look and gesture and position was vocal. In conclusion, he urged the duty of every one lending a helping hand, and in order that all might have the opportunity of doing something, he proposed the forma- tion of mission and Dorcas societies, Sun- day-schools, visiting committees, and other   22     Our VNew Minister. means of employment to all connected with his charge. A most favorable impression was produced upon all the congregation except Mr. Ed- wards. After service, as several were gath- ered under the trees, discussing the news of the day, politics, farming, Church affairs, etc., he did not fail to express his dissatisfaction with the morning's service; the sermon was good enough, but too long; he did not see the use of repeating the long creed, and the long absolution, when shorter forms were provided; the idea, also, of having the communion every Sunday, would derange all his domestic ar- rangements, and make it impossible to have dinner at his usual hour. These remarks were overheard by Mrs. Baker, who immedi- ately stepped up, and proceeded to enlighten the last speaker, by showing him the appro- priateness of the Nicene creed to the day, be- cause it contained a fuller explication of the Saviour's divinity; that a declaratory form of absolution ought to follow a general con- fession; and as to weekly communions, he   t        0ZOur ez'w li'ister. 23 would never have been an "early Christian,' for they celebrated the Eucharist every day. Her remarks were delivered so rapidly, and with such an emphatic manner, that Mr. Ed- wards was compelled to " weaken a little." His wife had been dead about one year, and Mrs. Baker was a blooming widow. As there was nb parsonage connected with the church, the new minister had engaged board with her, and she was very much prepossessed in his favor, partly because he was a single man, but mostly because he seemed so easily pleased, and so grateful for every little act of kindness. As the Sunday-school was to meet at four in the afternoon, there was not much time for a full interchange of opinions; Mr. Stirling was presented to those with whom he was not yet acquainted, and after a few expressions of pleasure, he hurried home to dinner, so as to gain a spare hour to think over a lecture for the children. As yet the Sunday-school was quite small, but this evening there were several new teaoh-   24     Or- Xi N'c, Minister. ers, and a few additional scholars. Belle Warreh had treated the youngest child of the village blacksmith to sugar plums, and thlus bribed the urchin to accompany her to the church, where she triumphantly handed him over to the rector, as her first efforts towards becoming a worker in theparish. The su- perintendent congratulated Mr. Stirling upon the renewed zeal of the teachers, and upon the fine sermon of the morning. "I am rejoiced to see zealous teachers," said Douglas, "and as to the sermon, Satan has already told me all its merits; he gener- ally keeps the clergy posted on whatever ministers to their vanity and pride." Douglas soon won his way to the hearts of the children by his efforts to make his in- struction entertaining, and also by entering heartily into any plans for their amusement; but not going quite so far as that good old di- vine who declared ice-cream and cake to be the most effectual means of grace with small girls. There was one young lady among the teachers who seemed to be more devout and   I       Our New Minister.     25 attentive than the others, and Douglas did n6t fail to observe her quiet and dignified de- portment. This was Lena Bowers, who had lately moved into the parish, with her uncle and aunt. They were now living about a mile from the church, at a place called "Riv- erside," from its close proxinity to the water. She was perhaps the youngest teacher in the school, but seemed to have perfect control of her pupils. After school was dismissed, Douglas joined her, and walked to her resi- dence, that he might know her better, and also become acquainted with her aunt, who was too infirm to attend public worship. Lena was somewhat reserved, but she had great- ly interested him, by her likeness to an old friend he had known in his boyhood. After an hour spent in reading and conversation, and a promise to renew his visit, he returned home, to muse over the events of the day. May we trespass upon the heart-communings of the new rector, in the privacy of his own study? The labors of the week concentrate in the duties of a Sunclday. If he was con-   26     Our New Minister. scious of having won a reputation for elo-s quence, intelligence, and a warm personal in- terest in the spiritual welfare of his flock, he was doubly conscious of his, shortcomings and selfishness and pride. Ho1w the memo- ries of the past crowd upon his mind! How he recalls his first enthusiastic determina- tion to serve in the ministry! How sweet the recollection of a mother's prayers, and that mother's pride in the choice of her only boy! How bitter the thought of wasted hours and careless ways of boyhood! Above all, the day, now drawing to a close, what re- cord would it reveal when eternity dawned? Had one wandering lamb returned to the fold? Was there any angel joy over one prodigal reclaimed? Had his voice awak- ened one heedless soul, or stirred the deepest depths of one callous heart? Had he helped one despairing mortal to see a "silver lin- ing" to the cloud that was casting its gloom Athwart life's weary way? Had he told the or- phan of a heavenly Father's love, the friend- less of one who "sticketh closer than a broth-   Our New M inister.     27 er," the bereaved of him who wept by Laza- rus's tomb, the sad and sorrowful, of the Lord who spoke Jerusalem.'s doom amid a flood of anguished sorrow? Or had some word or work of his been a stumbling block in a broth- er's way, a hinderance to the cause nearest his heart? Thoughts such as these filledi his mind, until the hour of midnight warned him of the necessity of rest and repose; so laying his head upon his pillow, he was soon leading another existence, in the blissful realms of dreamland. Visions of earthly greatness rose before him, unmarred by trials and, perplexi- ties. Fields of twider usefulness loomed up before him, bright with many triumphs, and beaming with brighter hopes; until these in turn were eclipsed by glimpses of the unseen and eternal--Elysian fields, the river of life, the golden streets, the gilded temple and rising spires of "Jerusalem the Golden." Refreshing sleep and an early walk, gave Douglas a relish for breakfast. Widow Baker had the table neatly set, with tea, toast, and herring. "I presume you drink tea," she   28    WOur Ne-w Minister. said, "most preachers are fond of black tea, as it is less injurious to the nervous system than coffee." "Thankll you, madam, I thiink it is an ex- cellent beverage for invalids," said Douglas. "Help yourself to toast, Mr. Stirling; my husband used to say, if dyspeptics would only confine themselves to toast for a year or two, one half of them would be cured." "Thank you," said Douglas, "I believe toast is a most wholesome diet, and much used in our public institutions." "What! not eat fish!" exclaimed Mrs. Ba- ker, "well, I can get you some cold bacon in a few moments, if you will have it. I always have cold meat on Monday, as it is wash-day. We generally manage to cook enough on Sat- urday to last until Wednesday; Tuesday is 'ironing,' you know; but some people con- tend it is no harm to have a good dinner on Sunday. What are your views as to the ob- servance of the Sabbath?" "I believe the Jews observe that day with much strictaess," replied Douglas.   I        Our Neow Minister.    29 "Oh no, sir," said Mrs. Baker, "they keep Saturday." "Well, madam," replied Douglas, "that is the seventh day, or the Sabbath. Christians keep Sunday, or the first day of the week, be- cause the Church so directs." "And the Bible," added Mrs. Baker. "No," said Douglas, "Sunday is not the day named in the commandment." "Then why don't more people be Jews?" asked Mrs. B. "It is not a matter of choice," answered Douglas, "for they are a distinct race, and not a mere sect of believers." ",But," persisted Mrs. Baker, "don't you think  Episcopalians are better Christians than the Jews?" "In many respects I think they are," said Douglas, "but the Jews set us a good exam- ple in charity, industry, and patriotism." "Cup out?" said the widow. "No more, thank you," replied Douglas, rising and taking his hat, "I shall not be at home to dinner, as I  have promised Mr.   30     Our New Minister. Bowers to spend the day with him at' River- side.'" "Well, as you wish," remarked Mrs. Baker, "but you know they are very plain people, and I fear some of the congregation will be a little jealous if your first visit is to them; and I have heard it said that the girl who lives with them is not really their niece; if you will notice she does not resemble them in the least; but they are very kind, and seem to love her as a daughter, and I would not have you for the world hint that I said any thing about them; anid after all I believe Lena is, a very good girl and very attentive to her Church duties. Belle Warren thought per- haps you would call there this morning."   CHAPTER     IV. BOUT a dozen years before the X events just recorded took place, a happy family were mourning the loss of a lovely child. They occupied a mag- nificent mansion on the suburbs of a large city, with a lawn opening on the avenue, and in the rear a lake of passing beauty. Two men were driving past, and seeing this bright child at play, caught at the idea of carrying it off, in hopes of obtaining a large reward for its return. Who can picture the distress of its parents when their darling was first missed! every nook and corner were searched. The mother's agonizing voice was heard calling loudly for her beloved Lena; her heart-rend- ing cries, and wailing notes of woe, stimulated   32  1  Our New Minister. all their neighbors in the search. It was feared the child had been drowned in the lake, but the search there proved to be fruitless. Perhaps a passing band of Gypsies had car- ried it away, and so the loss was widely ad- vertised. The men drove rapidly on, until the darkness of night enabled them to con- ceal their captive. On the following day they were many miles from the city. Be- coming alarmed, and regretting their hasty action, they wondered what was best to do with their charge. They finally determined to dispose of it, by dropping the child at a farm-house on the way, and watch at a dis- tance until the little one entered the door. Mr. Bowers had just returned from the field, and noticing the little stranger, the following dialogue ensued between him and Lena. "What do you want, child?" "Me wants somethin' to eat." "Where do you live?" "In big house." "What is your name?" "Lena.' k    Our New Minister.     33 "Lena what?" "Dat's all." "How came you here?" "Turn in a carriage. "Who brought you?" ' Gemman." "What is your father's name?" "Dulno. Me's hungry." "Well, yogu shall have something nice to eat if you will tell me your name, and where you live." Just then Mrs. Bowers came out to see who was conversing with her husband, and finding Lena, exclaimed, " whose child is that, William?"  "That is just what I am trying to find out," said he; " perhaps some one has taken compassion on you, and sent one from the asylum." "Then back to the asylum it shall go," said his spouse; "I am not going -to be bothered with other people's children at my time of life; like as not some bad woman wants to put her on us for support; but I'll have nQth- ing to do with it." Then stooping down and 3   34     Our New Minister. patting the child, said, "What's your name, sissie?" "Lena. Me's hungry," was the answer. Mrs. Bowers relented somewhat, when she heard this sweet, plaintive voice, and turning sharply on her husband, exclaimed, "Why are you standing there looking so bewildered;. don'tyou hear the child wants something to eat? Punch up the fire, while I make some tea, and get the bread." After the little one had partaken of a hlearty meal it crawled up into Mrs. Bowers's lap, and putting its tiny arms around her, her head resting on her bosom, it was soon asleep. The farmer's wife was seated in her "old arm-chair," and tears were stealing down her pale and furrowed cheeks. Had her first and only babe lived, it would just be the age of the little one now nestling in her arms. Not many years ago she had lain it to rest, and over its little grave the green sward waved with every breeze, and violets exhaled their sweet perfume. Too young to exhibit much intelligence, it   Our New Minister.     35 was none the less dear to a mother's heart, and in that mother's memory were treasured recollections of her darling. Who that has buried a tenderly loved child, is not moved by the love and trust of others of the same age'? The old wound bleeds afresh, the heart sends a quicker throb, as memories of mingled joy and sad- ness are recalled by some trivial incident. The prayer of almost every woman's early married life, is for a child to share the lonely hours that hanlg so heavily when duty calls their husband  away. Mr. Bowers declared that his wife wanted some  one to talk to and scold, when he was not about. At last her prayer was answered.   It was a sweet and quiet child, giving some  promise of intelli- gence and beauty. Its coming seemed to soften and subdue the mother's disposition. Upon it she lavished a  wealth of tenderness and love. When it was taken ill, it was most tenderly watched and nursed, until it breathed its last. Her grief was too much for utter- ance, almost too much for tears. She laid it;   36     Our NeAw Miister. in its little crib, and for days she seemed un- able to bear such a heavy stroke of sorrow. Never had she seemed like her old self, until this day, when Lena slumbered in her arms. She had lain quietly there for nearly an hour, when the husband drove to the door, and Mrs. Bowers asked him where he was going. "Going to take that child to the asylum," he replied, " as you directed me a little while ago." ' "You will do no such thing, you hard- hearted wretch!" said his wife. "How would you like a child of yours, to be poked into a house with a lot of children' with measles, and mumps, and dear knows what all, and among strangers too?" "I guess she's a stranger here," responded Mr. Bowers; " what shall we do with it?" "Why," said his wife, "ride to town and ask at the wheelwright shop if any body has lost a child, and if they hav'n't, stop at Mr. James's store; get me some muslin, and cali-  co, and socks, and things; if it has got to stay here a little while, we might as well make   Our New Minister.      37 it comfortable." As might be supposed, he found no claimant for the lost child, so re- turned home, after obeying his wife's instruc- tions-he knew better than to forget them. HMrs. Bowers secretly rejoiced in the fruit- less search, for during his absence Lena had wakened, and she had greatly enjoyed her in- nocent prattle. !"Now, William," she said, " as we are get- ting along in years, we might as well let this young one learn to call us' uncle' and ' aunt,' and as it seems to have no 'last name,' we can call it ' Lena Bowers,' when it is christ- ened."  To this he answered,' "Mr. Stirling says the first name is the only name recognized by the Church and in heaven, because people can't change that; but the last name can be changed, as when women get married." "Well, you needn't tell her that her name is not 'Bowers,' and I reckon it is hardly worth while saying much about the matter, for if she really is lost, her parents will hunt her up, and if she is not, the least said the   38     Our New Minister. better; I can fix her up a little, and she may be useful in helping me keep the house in order."  "If it was only a boy," ventured Mr. Bow- ers, recalling his varied labors. "Boy, indeed!" exclaimed his wife. "I verily believe if men had their way, the world would be overrun with boys, and what use are they, but to keep you darning, and mend- ing, and fixing till they grow up, and'they then get married or go West." "Girls get married, too," answered Mr. Bowers. "Yes," said his wife, " but there is no dan- ger losing this little waif in that way-at least, not in our time," and she added with some temper, "I must get to work, if you have nothing to do." Notwithstanding an occasional war of words, this honest couple were models of devotion, each striving to make the other happy. The good wife was soon busied in fixing uip Lena's wardrobe, and Lena soon learned to love her new uncle and aunt, and to forget all con- I   Our New Minister.     39 nected with her early home. In a year or two the strange manner of her coming into the parish was almost forgotten by the neigh- bors, they regarding her as a member of the family where she resided. She was afforded the best advantages of learning, and being an apt scholar every opportunity was improved; besides being familiar with the details of do- mestic life. The story of her early life was told to Mr. Stirling the first day he spent with the family. This mystery made him talke a still deeper interest in her, and in the afternoon, when' he went with Mr. Bowers on the river to fish his nets, he pleaded for Lena's company also. Her conversation was both amusing and instructive, and as he was about to form a Bible class, he was anxious for her to join; for, although yet young in years, she was more sensible and intelligent than many in the village, and she also pos- sessed an air of refinement, both of feature and deportment, beyond her station. Having had but few playmates and intimate associ- ates, her tastes and conversation were ma-   40     Our New Minister. tured. Thus she added much to the enjoy- ment of his first pastoral visit. Mrs. Baker met him with her accustomed smile, which showed to advantage a beautiful set of teeth which she ordered a few months after her husband's death; and the great im- provement in her personal appearance quite reconciled her to the high price she was com- pelled to pay; for as yet the art was in its very earliest stages of development and prog- ress.      ,   CHAPTER V. AS soon as Douglas had finished his supper, which was also a wash- day meal,several of the gentle- men connected with the parish came in to pay their respects to the "new minister." It was not yet fully known what were his polit- ical views, and this was the eve of a presiden- tial election, and from the vehement remarks made that day by those who were gathered in a country store discussing the candidates, and spitting at a knot-hole in, the floor-some hitting it with wondrous precision-it might have been supposed thlat tihis particular dis- 'trict held the balance of power; at any rate, they always claimed and secured a goodly number of offices from every administration.   42     Our New Minister. "Will you vote to-morrow?" asked Mr. Edwards. "I have not been in the State long enough to entitle me to that privilege," said Douglas. "Sorry for that," replied the first speaker, "there are times when every one ought to be at the polls; there is so much corruption and dishonesty in the highest places of public trust." "Perhaps," said Douglas, " the same faults exist, in some measure, among their constitu- ency, only it is not so well known." "It may be so," admitted Mr. Edwards, "I often tell my friend Mr. Andrewes that this neighborhood is greatly changed and demor- alized; but he seems to think the world has not altered much in our day and generation." "No," responded Mr. A., "our county is every year becoming more thickly settled; as a natural consequence we see an increase of evil as well as good. Our congregation is nearly double what it was when I was a boy. When Mr. Cranmer was rector, I lhave often seen three ladies and myself make up the   Our New, Minister. congregation, and once, at a Lenten service, I heard my mother ask a question, which started him to walking up and down the aisle, conversing on religion instead of holding the, usual worship: something unusual, I think, for an advanced Churchman." "It was unusual," said Douglas, "but our forms are not intended to be so inflexible as to hinder our work; in the ' Visitation Office,' for instance, the sick person may not be in such a condition as to be benefited by a strict conformity to the service; some other collect may be advantageously substituted for the prayers laid down; and I believe the Church permits a certain discretion, just as it encourages private confession, without enforc- ing it as being in any way necessary as a sacrament." "I hope you don't 'believe in confession,'" interposed Mrs. Baker, as she dropped her knitting in her lap, "it's horrible! Just think of a young girl telling all her secrets to a man." "Then let the privilege be confined to our s   "     Oulr New Minister. own sex;" said Douglas, "but after all, ] fear the most bitter opponents of the cus- tom are generally those who have the worst to tell; if you were my mother, or sister, o0 friend, I am sure I would have no hesitatior in asking your advice on religious matters.' "Looking at it in that light," she said, "il does not seem so bad; but to me the very word sounds like something awful. I always associate with it something about young la. dies and gentlemen; if it was only confinec to very old people I would not mind it." "Do you not think children ought to ac knowledge to their parents when they dc wrong?" asked Douglas. "That is another question," replied Mrs Baker. "True," said Douglas, "it is another phasE of the subject, but the principle is the same all that the Church teaches about the duty o: confession, is simple and earnest use of every means to advance in the Christian life." "Well," added Mrs. Baker, "I 'confess' tc you that I do not like it."   'ii i       Our Vezw Minister.  "And I," said Douglas, "will have to 'ab- solve' you, until you know more on the sub- ject;" and turning to Mr. Andrewes he asked, if some more reverent mode of receiving the offerings of the people could not be adopted; lie did not like the present plan of hurrying round with a plate, and then placing them on the floor, under the pulpit. "I should be glad to see some improve- ment," said Mr. Andrewes; " this hasty meth- od reminds me of a story I have heard, of a pioneer minister out West; after the ser- mon lie asked some of the gentlemen to pass round their hats for the contributions; up- on this invitation a young man rose in one of the aisles, and commenced receiving the money; as he passed along, the preacher ob- served that he was glancing anxiously tow- ,ards the door; upon which lhe lifted a warn- ing voice and said, "my friend that is the Lord's money, and if you go out with it you will be damned." The words were scarce- ly uttered; when the  young man decamped with his hat well filled, and an old settler,   "    Our New Minister. seeing it, solemnly rose in the pew and ex- claimed, "I'll be d 1 d if he hasn't gone out." "The man's profanity and the money, too, would have been saved," said Douglas, "if primitive order and simplicity had been ob- served; if it is the Lord's money, it should be placed upon the Lord's table; a suitable receptacle provided for it, and a suitable po- sition observed, when it is presented: if we were giving some testimonial to a worthy of- fice-holder, we would stand, and have suitable words for the presentation; and who will say, there should be more decorum in a temple of justice, than in the Temple of the Most High: but, to change the subject, I have been thinking of holding a mission service occa- sionally at the Furnace; what do you think of the plan?" "It will undoubtedly fail," said Mr. Ed- wards, "the congregation would be all plain people, and as Dr. Pilston says, our service never takes with that class." "It might be worth a trial," suggested Mr. i   Our New Minister.     47 Andrewes, "and as you have no horse, I will drive yrou down." "Thank you," responded Douglas, "I will try it, for it seems to me that human nature  and spiritual needs are not affected by caste, and our service is suitable to every condition of life; besides, the old landmarks of society are becoming more and more obliterated, for now wealth seems to be as much courted as ancestral pride; and why should we pride ourselves on high birth? for ' When Adam delved and Eve span, Who was then the gentleman?'" "I do not believe Adam was a real gentle- man," said Mrs. Baker, "or 'he would have taken the blame, of the first sin, and not made poor woman bear all." "Then from whence came the aristocracy," asked Mr. Stirling. "I don't know," answered Mrs. Baker, "un- less the Darwinian theory be true, and they are descended from some kingly bird, or royal animal, or perhaps 'manners maketh man.'"   48     Our New Minister. "I think,' said Douglas, "the Evolution- ists will find an earnest exponent in you, if you go so far as that." Thus the evening was spent in social inter- course until the hour of parting came, and Douglas was glad to get to his study, that he might think over the day's doings, lay plans, and perfect those already made for future usefulness. He also tried to begin- on Mon- day his preparation for the next Sunday, se- lecting a subject, and studying it well, before he put his thoughts on paper; for sermon- writing was more difficult to him than to old- er persons with more experience, and perhaps a more intimate knowledge of the wants and sins of fallen man. It is one thing to write a theological disqui- sition on faith and charity, but quite another to explain the one and enforce the other, so tlhat passive emotions shall beget activities, and obedience follow the heart's conviction. The week soon passed (away, and Friday afternoon found Douglas at the church, se- lecting appropriate tunes, and making ar-   Our New Minister.     49 rangements to receive the choir. Belle War- ren was the first to " put in " her appearance, and in her neat dress and jaunty hat looked the picture of a country beauty. She was not sorry to find Mr. Stirling alone, as she wanted to ask his interest in a poor family she had commenced to visit, for she had al- ready begun to feel an interest in him. He too, was-anxious to converse with each mem- ber of the choir, about the propriety of mov- ing the organ from the gallery to a place nearer the chancel, which though it lowered the instrument, exalted the music to its proper place as an important element of worship. It did not take much persuasion to gain Belle's consent to the change; she would not have objected if Douglas had suggested the stee- ple as a suitable place for the choir; and be- ing nearer the pulpit, brouglit her nearer to tlim. Douglas could not help feeling kindly dis- posed towards one who seemed ever willing to help him in, the accomplishment of all his de- sires, but even Belle did not altogether fancy 4   50     Our New Minister. the idea of having the tines, as well as the hymns, given to the choir, until her attention was called to the rubric or law laid down in the Prayer Book on the page .immediate- ly preceding the psalms and -hymns. For- tunately Douglas was, himself, well versed in the science of music. The choir being com- posed of young ladies, a fine tenor voice was a great improvement, and at their ear- nest request he took his seat at the organ, playing and singing some beautiful selections from old composers; and then he explained the object and beauties of the choral service, where it could be successfully rendered. As it was still early in the evening, he proposed to accompany Belle to see the sick family whom she had mentioned.  A short walk brought them to a small cottage with neglect- ed grounds, and every thing out of repair. The door was opened by a slovenly servant, and as soon as they entered Douglas said, "Peace be to this house, and to all that dwell . in it." Upon hearing this the servant turned to him and said, "there ha'n't no quarrelling   Our lVeEw Minister.    5 here, mistis bees a dyin.'" She thought the invocation of "peace" referred to the unhap- py strife between husband and'wife. True, they were in the presence of death: upon the bed lay the young wife of a thriftless man, who had been dismissed from employment on the railroad, because the company's money somehow got mixed with his own. He stood by the fire, looking gloomy and sullen, scarce- ly noticing the entrance of strangers. Their only child, a girl of a dozen years, sat by her mother, holding her hand and bitterly weep- ing. This sweet child had helped to nurse and comfort her through her short illness. The mother welcomed Douglas with a smile and extended hand. Hers- had been a life of such suffering that death brought no terrors. She folded her child in her arms, and whis- pered of a better home, where they would be united to part nevermore. She asked for her favorite hymn; and through blinding tears, the child commenced to sing with faltering voice, "Abide with me;" the effort was too much for her, so she broke down in the first   52     Our New Minister. verse; o but Douglas and Belle took it up, and the dying mother tried to join in the last stanza: "Hold thou thy cross before my closing eyes; Shine through the gloom, and point me to the skies; Heaven's morning breaks, and earth's vain shadows flee; In life, in death, O Lord, abide with me." They knelt, and before Douglas had fin- ished the Commendatory Prayer, the angel of death had brought peace and rest to the patient sufferer. After the labor of life, the repose of Paradise. After toil, rest. Some of the neighbors were sent for, and Douglas and Belle took leave. It was Belle's first experience of suchl scenes. Had she known the poor woman was dangerously ill, she would have let Mr. Stirling make the visit alone. She had a mortal terror of death, the very sight of a cof- fin would make her shudder, and she would walk a square out of her way, rather than pass an undertaker's shop, where a coffin was exhibited in the window. It was now twi- light, so willingly she took the arm which 1   Our Newz Minister.    53 Douglas offered, and held it so tightly that he was puzzled to know whether she was prompted by love or fear, until he saw her very startled expression; and when they ar- rived at her residence, bidding him a hasty good night, she rushed in the door, forget- ting to extend an invitation to her compan- ion, who then turned towards his own home. She found several ladies in the parlor, among them her mother, who inquired what had kept her so late? She related the scenes she had so lately witnessed, and in the well lighted room, soon forgot her fears. "Did you invite Mr. Stirling to come in?" said her father. "No," replied Belle, "I forgot it entirely; the fact is, I was afraid he might get away before I got the door open; I was so fright- ened." "Frightened! at what? asked her friend Carrie, "what had Mr. Stirling  said to you?" "It was not that," answered Belle, with a blush, "but I can never forget that poor     54     Our New MAIlnisttr. woman. I know I shall dream about her to- night; she died righlt while Mr. Stirling was repeating the Commendatory Prayer." "Did lie stop then?" asked Mrs. Baker. "Of course he did not stop till he had fin- ished," replied Belle. "Then he was praying for the dead," sol- emnly added Mrs. Baker. "Well, suppose he was," said Belle. "It would do no good, and the Church does not allow us to pray for the dead," said Mrs. Baker- "Don't you pray for your son Charley while he is at sea, and you are not sure he is liv- ing?" argued Belle. "If it does them no harm, it might do us good thus to remember tle departed, and as to the Church teaching us this, do we not pray in the Litany, 'Re- member not, Lord, our offences, nor the of- feduces of ozr for'efcathers.' " "Yes," interrupted the widow, "but that is only a charitable hiope, and not a prayer that we expect answered." "That," persisted Belle, "is a refinement   X ur New Ministers.    5: of logic I cannot comprehend; a distinction without a difference." "What has come over you Belle," inter- posed Carrie. "Since Mr. Stirling came to the parish, you have been defending all these new-fangled notions that have of late crept into thle Church. - I expect the next thing, you will advocate the 'invocation of saints,' because the 'Te Deum ' calls upon the ' noble army of Martyrs' and ' Israel of old' to praise and bless the Lord." "I neither advocate nor defend any thing but the truth," was her indignant reply when ,, she saw the drift of the last remark. "Well, you can believe what you please," said Carrie, "but if you were a clergyman you would have to be more careful, and hold- ing such views, if you wanted to be bishop, a majority of the ' standing committees' would not consent to your consecration." "I wouldn't like to be a bishop," remarked Belle: "And you couldn't be the wife of one, add- ed Carrie, " if he happened to be a widower,  56     Our New Minister. and held the views of our bishop on that- subject." "Well," said Mrs. Baker, "I must go home, and let you two young ladies fight it out. The fact is, I am sometimes puzzled to know on which side the truth lies; when I Vas a child these fine points were never very warm- ly debated." "Perhaps they were never very warmly op- posed," suggested Belle. "Perhaps not," mused the widow, as she began to put on her wrappings, preparatory to her departure; for Mr. Stirling's toast and tea were to prepare, and she also wished to stop at the butcher's, and get some liver for breakfast; she had found this to be a cheap article of diet, and insisted that it was easier of digestion than any other part of the ani- mal, and most appropriate food for dyseep- tics. Douglas was not a "high liver," but heartily wished " liver " was " igher." I I    'CHAPTER    VI. OUGLAS continued to grow in fa- vor with his people, and to find his work producing good results. He labored hard to make his sermons as in- structive and edifying as possible. Having a well selected library at his command, he was never at a loss how to employ an idle hour. His style and delivery continued to improve, and at times his hearers were elec- trified by bursts of impassioned eloquence. When picturing some era in the past his- tory of the Church, or some of the early conflicts of Christianity, or one of the many phases of modern infidelity, his, whole soul would find voice in "thoughts that breathe and words that burn." His manly form and vigorous utterances would command the at-   58     Our New Minister. tention of those whose views often differed from his own. A peculiar grace of manner, combined with an attractive presence, lent a charm to his poorest efforts. Oftentimes when he would feel most disheartened and ashamed, he would find that his hearers were most pleased with his discourse. He had his trials, and his enemies, too, as every one has who strives to do his duty. His salary was hardly sufficient for his support, and pay- ments like " angel visits." His vestry were constantly suggesting some change or im- provement, which was utterly impracticable. Now and then some trifling remark of his was repeated and misrepresented. Every action was watched and noticed and subjected to un- just criticism; even his personal appearance did not escape comment. He could not ex- change ordinary civilities with a young lady, without being charged with some more ten- der sentiment; and sometimes his own heart would "plead guilty" to this soft impeach- ment. In lonely moments he would sigh for the   Our New Minister.     59 merry laugh and bright smiles of Miss War- ren. She was in his thoughts even more than he desired, and he esteemed her friendship even more than he was willing to admit to himself. No one can help feeling an interest in a person who volunteers to be their cham- pion. The way of the world is so fault-find- ing, so censorious, that an exception to the rule is all the more wonderful. There is a. responsive chord in' every human heart that has an answering beat to any evidence of af- fection. Love begets love, the same in kind, though not always in degree. If Douglas did not love Belle, it was not because she did not deserve it, for she was always ready to enter into his plans, and always embracing oppor- tunities to do him a kindness. His visits to her, however, were not so frequent as to other members of his parish. Not a week passed in which he did not find time and occasion to stroll over to Mr. Bowers's, if only for a few moments. Lena was daily becoming more attractive in his eyes, and winning a place in his heart. *     *   * t  -,   60     Our New fMinister. Her mind, under careful training, was gradu- ally becoming more expansive, and in her personnel tlere was a marked improvement. She was exchanging her childish ways and looks for those of a woman. A full and rounded figure, light hair and eyes, expres- sive mouth, and a faultless complexion was her type of beauty. At times she was play- ful, light-hearted, almost gay; and again she would be silent and reserved; as if some sor- row had cast a shadow over the future, or darkening clouds betokened a coming storm. She always welcomed the visits of her pastor, but never vouchsafed an explanation of her variable moods. Whenever he sought to win her confidence, she would toss her head, and turn his attention to some lighter or more trivial subject; but in all matters connected with her Church she was communicative, and frequently sought his counsel where she was unable to decide for herself. In preparing for confirmation she frankly stated all her difficulties and fears; she did not attempt to conceal her love for the world, her desire for   Our Neiw Minister.    6r wealth, her fondness for some of the vanities of earth; but at the same time expressed her, ready willingness to make trial of the better life. In spiritual as well as in her worldly prospects, she seemed ever to have a yearn- ing after something still unrealized. Her ideal life found no counterpart in any of her associates. Sometimes she would express her idea of the ministry in such a forcible way as to make Douglas more thoughtful than usual, though he always derived encourage- ment and benefit from the frequency of his intercourse with her. Oftentimes their even- ing walk would lay along the river shore, and they would be so interested in discussion as to be unmindful of passing hours and rising tide. We may be sure that Mr. Stirling's oft re- peated visits did not escape the notice and comment of others. A few accounted for them because of his fondness for boating, bathing, and fishing, believing that he could take no special pleasure in social intercourse with a family of such humble origin. Lena's   62     Our New Minister. growth and attractions were not known and noticed by those who only seldom had the opportunity of seeing her. Once only, at a meeting of the sewing society, whllen some one praised her skill and neatness, she re- ceived the compliment with such a becoming blush, that attention was diverted from her work to her pretty face. At these meetings parochial affairs were freely discussed, and sometimes private matters were noticed. "Ctrrie,"' said Mrs. Baker, on one occasion, "I wonder what Mr. Stirling and Belle are talking about so earnestly," as she glanced towards the corner where they were seated. "Oh," answered that young lady, "I sup- pose it is some mission work; perhaps they have a scheme to furnish parasols to the Pat- agonians. I never saw such a goose as she makes of herself." "Perhaps it is mission work," resumed Mrs. Baker; " but Belle seems to (think she can do nothing without consulting him, and he has found out who puts that fragrant bouquet in his vestry-room every Sunday."   I Our Nezv Minister.    63 "Does Belle do that?" cried Carrie, with a look of astonishment. "I did not think she was so foolish, for only yesterday she de- clared she had. no idea of him." "I may be mistaken," said Mrs. Baker, "for you know this is Lent, and he told me tlhere was an old ,canon of the Church which forbid people to marry at this season, and courting is just as bad; besides he observes Lent very strictly, for he will not touch liver more than once or twice a week, and takes very little butter on his toast' by the bye, butter is very high this spring, and of a very inferior quality." Then followed the usual interchange of views on the subject of housekeeping, in which irs. Baker gave her recipe for mak- ing bread pudding. These sewing meetings were always well attended, even several gentlemen making an effort to be present, unless detained by ur- gent business; and it generally happened that Douglas would escort Miss Warren to her home, her dwelling not being far from his,    "    Our New Minister. and he not unwilling to take the trouble of a few additional steps with such a pleasing companion. On the day after one of these pleasant gatherings, Douglas was invited to dine with Dr. Pilston, and the weather being somewhat threatening, the doctor sent his carriage for him. On the way he got into a conversation with the driver, who was an old family servant that had just returned to his early home from a protracted residence in the city. "Well, my man," said Douglas, "Why have I not seen-you at church?" "Don't, belong to your 'nomination, sir," was his respectful answer. "Oh, Methodist, I suppose?" said Douglas. "No, sir, I'se member of the New 'Formed 'Piscopals,". was the somewhat pompous re- joinder. "Ah! I did not know your people attend- ed there," said Douglas. "Where do you worship?" "At Bunkum Hall," answered the servant. "Parson Kumover preaches for us every oder   Our New  Minister.    65 Friday night: mighty fine preacher, too, sir; very 'structive and magniloquint in his re- marks." "As they have no published system of the- ology," said Douglas, "I would like to know some of their teachings." "Oh," said he, "they're down on sistems, sir; pew sistem specially." "Tlhat is very right," answered Douglas, "what else do they inculcate?" "Well, I don't know, zackly, sir; they ha'n't got all their p'ints yet; but they do say the oldest fathers don't teach 'generation of in- fants by baptism, and my old mother says she knows dem right dar.'" But here they have arrived at the doc- tor's comfortable home, and the conversation abruptly terminated. Douglas was soon com- fortably seated in the spacious parlor, and the elegance of the furniture, so very tastefully ar- ranged, together with the walls adorned with old paintings and family portraits, reminded him forcibly of his old Virginia home; and as memories of the past swept through his 5    "    Our New Minister. mind, the conversation naturally led to an- cestral recollections. The doctor's youngest daughter was just grown, and having already  heard of the frequent visits whick Douglas had paid to his parishioners at Riverside, she ventured to ask him, "If he approved of pay- ing any reg'ard to the claims of society, so far as they exacted reserve towards those of humble or doubtful origin?" Douglas saw at once the object of her re- mark, so he teclarea-that often these distinc- tions were merely arbitrary and capricious, and .those who affected to despise others were in turn pitied by them. The doctor was of the opinion that educa- tion and association would do much to ele- vate and refine all classes of society, but noth- ing short of divine interposition could entirely remove all disabilities. To this suggestion Mr. Stirling answered, that as the difficulties were human in their origin, human remedies ought to -accomplish -all that was necessary; and those who re- fused these remedial agencies, were not doing i   Our New Minister.     67 all they might to break down these barriers, and so becatme partly responsible for them. As the conversation was momentarily be- coming more earnest than agreeable, tile announcement of dinner was welcomed as a most fitting conclusion to the subject. The meal was but a plain one, but the crested sil- ver and china, and stately manner of serving, gave it the appearance of being something more than ordinary. Douglas could not help contrasting it with the -free and generous hospitality of River- side; the table so neatly set by Lena's own hlands, and the cups filled with her easy grace and dignity. Shortly after they had risen from the table, he excused himself from a longer visit; so, after the usual leave-takings, he was again seated in the carriage, with the same old driver who had brought him  over in the morning, and from whom he wished to learn more of the New eoformed Church, "So you did not think the old Church goed enough for you," resumed Douglas.   68'    Our New Minister. "Not cath'lic enough," was the reply; and taking a rein in each hand, he threw open his arms, .and said, "they wanted more scope- more show for the minority." '"Why," said Douglas, "our Church prides itself upon a comprehensive policy, and as- sumes to be catholic in doctrine." "Yes, sir," was the answer; " but that 'pol- icy' gave them Richeylists at Mount iMoriall Church too much swing; they keeped a run- nin' down preachin,' and a runnin' up prayin', till the preachinest man in the church couldn't get any more pay than the prayin' ones." "But why did not they stay and fight their battles in the Church," asked Douglas. "It couldn't be did," was the reply; "you might as well tell a man to stay in the house and' talk it out' with a scolding wife, when all the while green fields and singing birds are calling him to peace and quiet." "You think, then," said Douglas, "there was no pride or selfishness at the bottom of it all?" "No, sir," was his earnest answer; "there   OurB New Minister.    69 might have been some pride at the 'top,' but a man- kin carry a high head, if he keeps his heart all right. There's the danger." "But an error of the 'head,'" said Douglas, "may soon become one of the ' heart'; the hasty action occasioned by a fancied wrong, may lead us into irretrievable difficulties. Schism is a fearful sin, and it is better to en- dure wrong for a few years in hopes of a ref- ormation, than to attempt an immediate rem- edy by revolution. But here we are at my home, and I must leave you. - Many thanks for your kindness, and let me hope to see [you at my church when you have the oppoltu- nity. Good bye." "Adieu, sir." i.   CHAPTER    VII. j OTGLAS entered his room, and found a letter awaiting him, con- taining news of his uncle's sudden' death; and that he was so involved that all his property would hardly meet his obliga- tions. Though not his first sorrow, Jhe keenly felt the blow. The loss of both parents had left him an orphan several years ago, and now his only relative was gone., The loss of expected wealth caused no regret, but the loss of a dear and valued friend caused a sense of loneliness to steal over him of which he could not divest himself. The night was spent in sleepless tossings, and yearning after comfort. In the morning lhe arose, but was not refreshed, and after a light brealkfast   Or1Or Ni'ew Minister.   71 sought the fresh air and the invigorating influence of a long walk. Scarcely noting which way he took, it was not long before he found himself on the river shore. Finding a seat upon the banks he gazed out upon the quiet waters. The sun was not very high, and scarcely a ripple disturbed the surface of the stream. -Here and there a little spray sparkled in the sunlight, and the few sails that were visible had not breeze enough to , move them; they seemed to be sleeping on the bosom of the waves. All nature spoke of peaceful stillness, whilst only his own poor heart was moved. He.-was almost ready to thllink aloud, when his reverie was disturbed by the sound of app;oaching footsteps, and in another moment Lena was by his side. "Why, Mr. Stirling!" she exclaimed, .as soon as she was recognized, "have you been to the house-I did not know it; uncle has been wishing you would come over, as he wants to show you some new fishing tackle, which he has but lately received from the city."     72     Our New' Minister. "No, Miss Lena, I have not been any- where this morning," he replied, "but only just walked here for fresh air and exercise." Then noticing for the first time his de- pressed manner, she said more gently, "I hope you have not been ill;" and seeing traces of recent tears, she added, "has any thing happened to cause you trouble?" Without answering her question, he handed her the letter of the previous evening. With trembling hand she opened and read it; a sympathizing tear stole down her cheek, and as she returned it to him, she ventured a word of comfort and cheer. "Oh!" he replied, "you have a happy home, kind and loving relatives, who antici- pate your every want." "And you, Mr. Stirling, have an apprecia- tive congregation, quite devoted to you." "Yes," he said, "I am not ungrateful, but there are moments when we yearn for the sympathy of relatives as well as friends." "And do I not know that feeling," she said, with a sigh. "Oh! Mr. Stirling, how often   Our New Minister.     7.3 has my heart ached with a painful sense of loneliness, when I have felt my dependence upon the charity of others. I have no sweet memories of a mother's smile, and a father's kind voice; and sometimes it would almost break my heart when I remember that per- haps-perhaps-I am nobody's child!" Then hiding her face in her hands, and blending her tears with his, she gave way to an uncon- trolled fit of passionate weeping. Douglas now sought to comfort her, and in the effort lost sight of his own sorrow. He told her of a heavenly Parent's love for those who strive to do their duty, and perhaps that- same kind Father would, in his own good time, solve the mystery of the past, and all would yet be well: that it was not right to place an unfavorable construction on that which could not be explained, but rather hope for the best until the worst was known. His words were always balm to her troubled spirits, and in a little while they were both resilgned, almost cheerful, and rising from their seat, they walked together towards her   74'    Our VCew Ainizster. home. Mr. and Mrs. Bowers welcomed him, as usual, and soon they were all engaged in friendly conversation. Douglas told his loss, :and Mrs. Bowers sought to console him, by giving a minute account of eleven uncles and aunts she had followed to the grave, in days gone by. "Yes,'" interrupted her husband, "and death is not confined to thel human species, for since you were here last the chol- era has carried off all my turkeys, and I fear the chickens will go too." This new turn of the conversation almost provoked a smile from Douglas and Lena, for each had a keen sense of the ludicrous. They did not betray their amusement, fqr they both knew the old couple were in earnest, and deeply felt the loss they had sustained. In a little while Douglas started for home in a much more comfortable frame of mind than he had on leaving it. He attributed the im- provement to the bracing air and walk; but in reality it was Lena who had made the change, for his thoughts were now of her. Who could she be? :How was it he took 4-   Our New Minister.     75 such an interest in her? How different she seemed from her associates? What a con- trast between' her quiet demeanor, and other young ladies of his congregation? How he wished he might be the means of unravel- ling the mystery that hung around her early years, for he was now convinced that this was the secret of her reserved manner, which he had so often noticed; and once or twice he had heard Mrs. Baker allude to her in a rath- er disparaging manner, as' though. there was some nameless reason why she should be kept at a respectful distance.' On such occa- sions Douglas seemed to take a savage pleas- ure in showing her especial attention. Nor could he analyze his motives for doing so. Sometimes he thought it must be the work- ings of the "Old Adam" within him, for lhe considered that the devil always held a lien upon our moral natures; then he attributed it to a natural desire on his part to take the side of those who were unjustly persecuted. i They were more frequently thrown together than he desired, but each thought they un- ^,   I!   57     Our New  Minister.. derstood the other sufficiently well not to ex- ceed the bounds of propriety. After the death of his uncle Douglas threw himself more heartily into his work. Having nothing now but his salary to depend upon, he was compelled to economize and curtail his charities. Lent was drawing to a colose, and he planned a daily sirvice and lecture. Before Easter his self-denial was telling heav- ily on his strength. Belle Warren was the first to note his failing color,. and begged him to be more sparing of himself: willingly she took her share of visiting the poor, and thus relieved him greatly. At times he almost wished she was more than his " friend," for her cheerful manner helped to while away many idle moments, and she was always contriving some way to make herself useful. She kept him well supplied with bands, slippers, pin- cushions, and any little article she thought would be acceptable to a bachelor. On one occasion she went so far as to interfere with Mrs. Baker's domestia arrangements, by sug- gesting the substitution of beefsteak for liver,   Our New Minister.     " as a breakfast relish; but that good lady as- sured her she knew clerical tastes far better than any other woman in the parish, and she was not going to develop Mr. Stirling's slight indisposition into the incipient stages of some deep-seated disease. But notwith- standing every care, he did not materially improve, and seriously thought of sending in his resignation. A few of his people encour- aged the idea, but the majority urged a few months' rest and recreation. For his own part he was indifferent. If he resigned it would afford an opportunity to break off any attachments he might be forming, for with his limited means he could not think of mar- riage. If he rested for a few months he hardly knew where to spend the time, now that 1his only relative ewas dead. While he was debating in his own mind what was best to be done, the matter was de- cided for him by his vestry voting him six months' vacation, and a few of his vestry- men naming a trip to Europe, backing the suggestion by a subscription to defray the   78     Our New Minister. cost of travel and the pulpit supply during his absence. A visit to the old world had long been to him a pleasant dream, and here seemed the opportunity to gratify his own earnest desires. He accepted the proposition and began his preparations for departure. The difficulty of getting a temporary supply for his pulpit was soon overcome.  He found a much larger number of idle ministers than the convention reports led him to expect. Finally he ac- cepted the services of the Rev. Heber Han- del, who was somewhat advanced in years; he was so glad, too, to have the matter set- tled, that he did not inquire very closely into his theological views. Nor was he long in ar- ranging his books and papers for a prolonged absence, so that by the first of July he was all prepared for the journey. He could hardly realize that he was now about to enjoy what had often been his most earnest longings. With the services of the Mother Church of England he had become quite familiar. Heo thought, too, of the pleasure of visiting her   Our New ivnlmscer.     By old cathedrals, and listening to the voices of those whose writings had often been his study and delight. Kingsley, Stanley, Lid- don, Spurgeon, and a score of others would soon be within his reach. He was so taken up with his new departure, that he was still less fit for work, and only felt sure of going when his passage was actually taken. eRCANT/^ VY'   YOB^:      i *   CHAPTER VIII. OUGLAS had made his arrange- ments to sail on a packet ship, in order that he might have the full benefit of the sea air, and only two days were left him for a few parting visits. His first care was to call upon the sick and poor who were under his charge, and from them he received many tokens of affection and devotion. One had a  pair of yarn socks which she had knit for a  parting present; another, a  bundle of herbs in case of cramps, fever, or other illness; and still another gave him a  basket of hlard-boiledl eggs as a Inncll on the way. He gratefully received each gift, and prized them for the kindly feeling that had prompted them.   Our New  Minister,     81 After making these visits of duty, lie closed the morning routd by dropping in at Miss Warren's, as he wished to leave with her the names of several who wished to be connected with the Sunday-school. He found her alone, in the parlor, just about finishing a neat travelling case which she had been at work on for several days, intending to give it to Mr. Stirling before his departure. As he had entered without being announced, she was somewhat startled -in her manner, and colored deeply when he expressed his admiration of her handiwork. "I was afraid I would not finish it in time for you," said Belle. "Is it for me!" replied Donglas, with as- tonishment. "Yes," said Belle, "I thought you would find it useful in travelling, and it might some- times remind you of your old parish." "Ah," said Douglas, "I shall not need a reminder to think of you, and I do hope Mr. Handel will find his few months here as pleasant as my sojourn has been." 6           ' i   82     Our Nez  MAintister. "I know I shall just hate him," replied Belle, " and I am sure the congregation will fall dff dreadfully when-you are gone." "I hope not," responded Douglas warmly; "for my sake try and keep our work alive and all things prosperous in the parish." "I will try, then, for your sake," said Belle, casting a meaning' glance at him, " but it will be uphill work, I am sure; how long will you be gone?" "About six months I expect," answered Douglas; "it seems a long while to be away, almost long enough to be forgotten." "Oh1 Mr. Stirling, how can you say that, when you know how devoted every one is to you," said Belle, taking a seat on the lounge by his side, to avoid the glare of light from the opposite window. "Yes," responded Douglas, "I know I have been the recipient of muncl kindness, but I sometimes long for the deeper and warmer affection of a few friends, who can enter into every hope and plan, as well as share all fail- ures and sorrows." !'*   Our New Minister.     o5 "You might form such friendships, if you would," suggested Belle. "Might I number you as one, to begin with," asked Douglas. "If yon really wish it," replied Belle. "May I not hope for a still deeper feeling thlan friendship ?" urged Douglas, taking her lhand and gazing up into her half averted face. The hand was not withdrawn, and Belle was about to stammer out a reply, when her mother's step was heard, and Mr. Stir- ling rose to greet her. She expressed regret at his going away, but hoped he would find the trip beneficial, and as she too had been abroad, perhaps she could give him the ad- dress of a few hotels, where they would not take the customary advantage of foreigners. It was now the dinner hour, so he bids each "good-by," giving Belle's hand a little warmer pressure than her mamma's. When he reached the open air, he began to ponder over the events of the past hour. "What have I done!" was his mental ejaculation.   84     Our New Minister. He had started to pay a friendly visit, and now he was committed to an engagement, if not actually engaged, in the judgment of the world. Belle had given him no answer, but did not her eyes speak the heart's language more truly than words could express? Had he not been hasty in avowing a feeling which, in cooler moments, he felt was only a genuine friendship? He was truly attached to her, and admired her kind and open disposition, but was this a'love upon which a man might venture his all? Had he not committed a great error in leading her to suppose that he was in love; and where was the remedy? If he went back and attempted an explanation, she would call him "a goose," and perhaps if he looked in those eyes again he would be "goose" enough to get still deeper in the mire. Fortunately he had so much to attend to that day he did not find time for further musings. He hurried home, and as hurriedly swallowed his dinner; not even did he notice that Mrs. Baker had provided an additional course of shin soup, in honor of his early de-   Our New Ministe;r.    85 parture and as witness of her kind feeling towards him. Once only did he cause that good lady to look at him with a smile of won- der, when lie asked if he might help her to some "Belle "-" turnips." Miss Warren thought much of what had transpired during that sholrt morning visit, but as none of her young friends called dur- ing the day, she determined not to mention what had occurred to any one; at least for the present. In the afternoon Douglas started out to finish his visiting, as he expected to leave next morning, in the earliest train. He had not yet been to "Riverside," but had heard that Mrs. Bowers was more complaining than usual. He did not care to pass the home of Miss Warren under existing circumstances, so he took a circuitous route to the river, which led him to the same spot where Lena had found him on the day following the re- ception of the news of his uncle's death. To his surprise he found her seated in the same place, staring vacantly out towards the rip-   86     Our Newi  i'nister. pling waters. The setting sun was almost hid by the tall pines on the bank, whilst they cast their long shadowrs far out into the stream. Her tholghtfill attitude arrested his attention. He paused a momnent before lie would disturb her, and p ausing was most forcibly struck by a face and form that were daily growing in beauty and interest. There seems to be some sort of magnetism which makes us conscious when any one is looking intently at us. Some undefined feel- ing of a personal presence will steal over us without our bidding. Lena felt this, and turning around, met the earnest gaze of Douglas bent upon her. The color mounted to her cheek as he stepped lightly forward with outstretched hand, and gayly said, "Well, Miss Lena, why so pensive to-day?" but as he saw her eye yet moist with a tear, he changed his manner, and taking a seat by Oher side, said he had come to say "good-by," as he was to start on his trip in, the early morning. Hearing this she tried to assume a more cheerful mood, and rallied   Our New Minister.     87 him on his improved appearance at the mere anticipation of a sea trip. "That pleasure would be doubled," he re- plied, "if I were not:so soon to be a ' stranger in a strange land.' But why were you look- ing so sad when I came up? What were your thoughts, may I ask?" "Well, I hardly know," said Lena, "I sup- pose I must have been in one of my unhap- py moods; disheartened by repeated failures, discouraged by inability to keep good resolu- tions, and dissatisfied with life." "No man is sufcient of himself, etc.," quoted Douglas. "Alh, but I am only a woman," she said. "And are they not more gifted with strength and self control than men?" asked Douglas. "On the contrary, I'think they are more dependent and weak," said Lena. "I do not know," mused Douglas, after a moment's pause; "I have sometimes been be- trayed into very weak and foolish things," and he recalled the events of the morning, in which Miss Warren was concerned.   88     Our Ne-w AMinister. '"Your sermons would not lead us to sup- pose that you ever acted without deliberation. What shall we do when you are gone?" asked Lena. "I have been successful in providing a most excellent substitute," replied Mr. Stirling. "But," persisted Lena, "I am so slow in getting well acquainted with any one, and it seems hard that just as I am learning to know you so well, we should hlave a change, somehow I do not fear you, as I do most preachers." "And do you know," asked Douglas, "what is required to cast out all fear?" "Oh, I did not mean that," quickly ejacu- lated Lena, as she recalled the Scriptural quotation. "Then you, have neither love nor fear for me?" asked Douglas, with a sigh. Lena knew not how to answer, so she hung her head in silence. "Oh Lena!" he continued, "may I take silence for consent? one little word will make me supremely happy; I have tried to silence   Our Nezv Minister.     8g the pleadings of my heart, but in vain. I love!--so fondly love!-have you none to give in return?" "Please-Please, Mr., Stirling, do not talk so;" pleaded Lena, trembling with emotion, and starting to her feet. "Then you bid me have no hope," he sadly said, rising as he spoke. Lena looking up hel'iout her hand, and made an effort to speak, her hand rested in his, and his arm stole round her quivering form; and as her head fell upon his bosom, she poured forth her heart's bursting fulness in overflowing tears, the richest offering of woman's tender, trusting heart. For some moments neither spoke. Silence is often love's most expressive language. The loudest expressions of friendship are often those that will not stand the test of time and changing fortune. At last Lena released her- self from her embarrassing position, and said, "Mr. Stirling, you have won from me the con- fession of my love. I had intended to smother the passion-or, at least, to hide it from you,   9o     Our New Minister. but now it is too late. Would God we had had never nmet! for I fear we can never be more to each other than we are this mo- ment. When we part, let it be to forget this hour. I cannot be your wife!" "Why! Lena, darling! why do you speak such words as these?" exclaimed Mr. Stir- ling. "Who dare stand between us and hap- piness?" "Mr. Stirling," she resumed, "what would the world say? What would your congrega- tion say? Ah, how could you with your noble birth and bearing, marry one who perhaps- perhaps-is riobody's child!/" and again her slight frame was convulsed with another out- burst of weeping. For the first time the mystery of Lena's birth occurred to Douglas; but his love was so strong, his character so noble, that he thrust all doubts aside, and exclaimed, "If the worst is true, how much dearer ought we to be to each other?" "Oh!" said Lena, "how would I treasure your pure, unselfish love, if I dared; but I   Our New Minister.     91 can never consent to stand in the way of your usefulness. I cannot purcllase happiness at such a cost; pray,'do not seek to shake me ill my resolltion." "I believe," responded Douglas, "that' 'every cloud has a silver lining' and that for us there is a future full of light and peace." "Do not be too sanguine," said Lena; "if you will, we may still be friends, not until the vail is lifted can we be more."  "Then," rejoined Douglas, " in token of my acceptance of a condition, to which I give -most reluctant consent, will you receive this ring? It was my mother's. Perhaps it may have some potent charm to solve our difficul- ties." Then taking it from his watch-guard, he placed it upon her chain. It was a chaste gold, with settings of ruby, emerald, garnet, amethyst, ruby, and diamond; the initial let- ters of the stones spelling that emotion of the past which had ripened into a far deeper feeling. It was to both an hour of bliss, but not without alloy. A mingled sentiment of joy and woe filled each heart as they started   92     Our New Al'inister. for home; for the twilight shadows had be- gun to fall, while they stood there all unmind- ful of swiftly speeding moments. When they reached the house, Mr. and 'Mrs. Bowers gave Douglas a kindly greeting; but the old lady, noticing Lena's flushed face, exclaimed, "Why, child, what is the matter? your face is all aglow. I wonder, William, if she can be getting the measles? I hear they are about." The old man half suspected the true state of affairs, and merely answered, "I hope it won't be a bad case." Lena crimsoned yet more; but Douglas gal- lantly came to the rescue, and with his ready wit soon changed the conversation, and after a few parting words said he must be off, as he had not yet finished packing. From the old couple he received many blessings; Lena gave him a hurried good-by, and-hastened to her room. As soon as Douglas reached his home he began to upbraid himself for having acted as he had done in the morning. In an unguarded                     moment he had left Belle Warren to suppose thlat he loved her, when, in calmer moments, he felt that his heart belonged to another. He had proposed to Lena, but how could lie bring himself to marry one whose birth was a mystery? His time was too short to reconcile the difficulty. He had acted rashy, but in each case with the best of motives; but ,ho would consider the motive when the true condition of affairs should be known. It was an awkward position any way. Had the church required a celibate clergy, he would have been saved this dilemma, and so he almost wished the ancient canon was still in force. Belle's lively manner had charmed away his idle moments, but the im- age of Lena was stamped upon his heart. He could think of nothing better than to wait for further developments, as he seemed to have lost control of his own destiny; so lihe retired early, living over, in fitful dreams, the scenes which were to him so new and strange, and rising early, finished his hasty preparations for departure.   CHAPTER IX. '    RIDE of a few hours landed Doug- las in New York, and in a little while he was safely on his ship, sailing out of the harbor. A favorable breeze was blowing, and grad- ually the city faded from his view. The last object that was visible was the spire of solme church, towering above the smoke and dust of the streets, reminding him of the "Truth of Jehovah " rising above the din and tumult of the world. In the bay he passed several steamers speeding on their way, homeward bound, the deckis crowded with anxious pas- sengers, who seemed to recognize the land he was leaving as the haven toward which they were faring. He  thought, too, of the beat-   Our Nezw Minister.    95 ing hearts waiting to receive them, and how many earnest prayers had gone up for their safe return. Thus, too, he was reminded of the Christian pilgrim's welcome home, when he shall have reached the peaceful shores of the heavenly Canaan, and the shouts of joy that await him there when the voyage of life is ended. By and by his boat was leaping from billow to billow,' on the great ocean: now on the crest of some high wave, then rolling in a trough of the sea; and as not a vestige of life or land was now to be seen, it suggested the old motto, "sic transit gloria mundi." Douglas found the voyage a "sick transit" for him before it was half completed. But the' worst evils, as well as sea-sickness, have their limit,and it was not many days before the white cliffs that line the English Channel loomed up in the distance, to glad- den the eye. Long voyages induce a weari- ness to which the most inhospitable, shores brling a welcome challnge. There was much to be seen in old England that was new to Douglas, and he saw much   96   9  Our New Minister. that seemed familiar, for he had often read of the old world. The old cathedrals bore silent testimony that his-Church was as old as the Christian 'era. The services, too, seemed so nearly the same as those to which he had been accustomed in America, that he was able to join heartily in them. Every thing he saw, bore the impress of centuries gone by!l even the beautiful Par- liament House in London, though a, com- paratively mddern structure, had a dark and dingy appearance, owing to the peculiar cli- mate, smoke, and fogs. The days seemed to have no end, as he could read in the evenings until nearly ten o'clock without the aid of any artificial light, and by three in the morn- ing it wast day again. Often during these long twilights, Doug- las's thoughts would wander back to his old home, and he wondered what changes had taken place since he left. He found time to write a few short letters to old friends, but as yet he had not penned a line to either Lena or Belle; he could not write to both, as they   Our New  Minister.    9/ had a right to expect, so he wrote to neither. There was so-much to be seen, every day was fully occupied. Being fond of painting and sculpture, he visited every gallery of note. From Lon- don he crossed to the Continent, and passed slowly through Germany and Switzerland over the Alps into Italy, where he lingered through the winter, gaining strength beneath those sunny skies, and spending hours in tra- versing her many art galleries. At Venice, and Rome, and Naples he lin- gered awhile, studying the language and the people; admiring pictures and statues, but deploring their blind superstitions and low standard of morality. At Florence he met with Mr. Egerton and his wife, who were from America, and spending a year abroad in quest of health and pleasure. I He' happened to meet them one day as he was strolling through an old cathedral, and was so struck by the lady's resemblance to some one he had known that he sought their acquaintance, and found them most agreeable 17   98     Our New Minister. travelling companions. Mr. Egerton was a gentleman of the old school; his wife was re- fined, educated, and but for a constant shade of sadness, might have been pronounced beau- tiful for her age. Perhaps it was her quiet, tired, and troubled look that won the marked attention Douglas paid her. Every evening as they rose from table-de-hote, he would join her for an hour's chat or walk, and compare- notes of what they had seen during their travels. During their stay at Lucerne they planned a morning's visit to the iigi, to witness a sun- rise. Mr. Egerton appeared to enter warmly into any arrangement that was likely to di- vert the attention of his wife. They were  compelled to make a very early start, and were soon climbing the circuitous paths that led up the mountain. The ascent, though very tedious and tiresome, was accomplished in ample time to witness the gorgeous sight. As they stood upon a high cliff, overlooking the valleys and hills for miles away, the east- ern sky was illumed with an increasing bril-   Our New  Minister.    99 "ance: and as the sun mounted higher and higher it revealed all the natural beauties of hill-top and vale. Quiet lakes seemed to sleep in undisturbed repose in every valley below, nearly a dozen being taken in at a sin- gle view. Mountain after mountain appeared to rise on every side, and stand as grave sen- tinels to the villages around. The trip and the scenery seemed to inspire Douglas with reverential awe; and he de- clared to Mrs. Egerton that, to him, the most excusable form of nmodern infidelity was that whllich saw Divinity in such scenes as these, and exalted humanity above the level of a fallen creature. His enthusiasm called forth one of her sad smiles as she quietly answered, "You have had a happy past, Mr. Stirling, and I have no doubt this scene is a vivid picture of your future; but some of us have had our lives' horizon so often clouded that we scarcely hope for sunshine now; I think Burns truly says, ' A few seem favorites of fate, In Pleasure's lap caress'd;   10o    Our New Minister. But oh! what crowds in every land Are wretched and forlorn; Through weary life, this lesson learn, That man was made to mourn."' "That should hardly be our creed," said Douglas, "for we have so much to make our lives bright; at least I have been one of the favored few, of whom the poet speaks." "And my blessings have been many, too," added Mrs. Egerton; "kind heaven has given me all that heart can desire, in regards to wealth, station, and a loving husband; and yet one sorrow of long ago still clouds all my joys; it seems as if I can never become recon- ciled to the loss that has shadowed my life; and even now I find it very hard to pray, 'Thy will be done.'" Her emotions seemed to be so great that Douglas did not pursue the subject, but sought to draw her attention to the ever- changing scenes that surrounded them; then joining her husband, they sat down to a bountiful repast which thoughtful hands had prepared, and for which the exercise and   the bracing air had given them all an ap- petite. Their descent to the hotel (which was such an execrable one that Douglas could not help quoting "Decensus Averni .facile est") 'was comparatively easy and quickly made. Mrs. Egerton had quite regained her composure, and eagerly watched the many little boats which were plying back and forth upon the lake, scanning most intently the faces of the peasant girls who were rowing, as well as the ladies and children who were enjoying a morning's sail upon the quiet waters. When she had reached her room her husband and Douglas sought some retired spot to enjoy a cigar, though Douglas did not agree with Mr. Spurgeon, that "smoking was one of the blessings of life, for which man should de- voutly thank his Creator." Mr. Egerton was more than twice the ago of Douglas, yet he always enjoyed young so- ciety, and these two would often have long discussions on various points of mutual in- terest. They both deplored the lamentable   102    Our New Minister. degeneracy of these old races, where a pure faith had once taken root, flourished, and borne abundant fruit. They could not help discerning a growing infidelity among those who were losing confidence in'the prevailing religion, both agreeing that a corrupt belief was not much of an improvement on hea- thenism. But whilst "our new minister" is basking in sunny climes, and daily growing strong and vigorous in body and mind, remembering in his earnest prayers the worlk and work- ers of his old parish; sometimes wondering what will become of his double engagement; let us go back and glance at the old home scenes and incidents. We shall not fail to note some changes, a few of which may af- fect Douglas however remotely, and may as- sist in the solution of his difficult and per- plexing, position. Do we not often hear it said, that "a hundred years hence and the world will be the same ,; but the adage may contain the germs of a false philosophy, if each one bo allowed to give it a private inter-   Our Newz Minister.     103 pretation. There 'may be a " periodicity" in great events, as a very learned divine at- tempts to show, but in individual lives who can tell "what a day may bring forth" and what changes may be wrought. * *  BE     I   CHAPTER X. .S...HE Rev. Heber Handel had en- tered upon his duties immedi- ately after the departure of Mr. Stirling. Being a different kind-of church- man, he omitted many of the services which had been established in the parish. At al- most every visit he made, he was compelled to listen to thie praises of Douglas, and then left to draw his own conclusions. He was unfortunate enough to make him- self obnoxious to Mrs. Baker, with whom he boarded, by occasionally suggesting some ex- pensive article of diet; and she, in turn, was loud in her commendations of Mr. Stirling. Once, she declared, after sitting down to a plain dinner, he crossed his mouth with his   uuYr lvew  I mtrZ zsr.  iu5 napkin, as if he thought one "grace" was not enough for such benefits; but Mr. Handel suggested that he may have been makihng the sign of the cross, to keep back some angry word, as men of his peculiar views believed that thought and speech could be controlled . by the use of that symbol. From the first, Mr. Edwards was his firm friend and supporter; indorsing all his omis- sions of service and ritual. Miss Warren continued her devotion to church work; at first, for the sake of the promise she had given Douglas, and then because she and Mr. Handel had formed a real friendship. For a little while Belle defended the old re- gime, but after some persuasion and explana- tion became convinced that she had been in error. She had ceased to look for a letter with a foreign postmark, and only received an occasional message from Douglas, regard- ing a poor family he had commended to her care during his absence. Notwithstanding numerous drawhacks, Mr. Handel had succeeded in overcoming many s         * I   Io6    Our New Minister. prejudices; he had even won over some fam- ilies from the Dissenters, which was consid- ered quite a triumph. His style of reading the service was declamatory, which, in a coun- try parish, was very "telling" in its effect: and there was nothing in his sermons to which any religionist might object. He was somewhat absent-minded at times, which led him on one occasion to commit a serious mis- take. It happened on the day when the feast of the circumcision fell on a Sunday. He managed to get the order of services so con- fused, that when he gave notice of the bish- op's intended visit for the purpose of admin- istering confirmation, he invited all those who, -desired to "witness or receive the rite of cir- cumcision" to be present on the following Sunday. After service Mr. Andrews called the attention of Mr. Edwards to the mistake, and asked him if he had heard the notice. "Yes," he said, " but I thought it was some new High-COhurch notion of our bishop." Mrs. Baker whispered to one of her lady friends, "she believed their pastor was now trying to I    Our New Minister.    107 conciliate the Hebrew portion of the neigh- borhood." Old Mrs. Bowers had a "bad turn," and died shortly after Douglas had left. During her last illness, Lena was unremitting in her attentions, and often did the old lady charge "William" to see that shee should want for nothing, in case she was taken away. The very day Douglas took the cars for New York, Lena had begged her aunt to tell her again all she knew of her early life, but it was the same old story she had heard so often before. Then Lena asked if she had nothing about her by which she might be identified, but neither of the old couple could remrember any thing. "Try, aunt," urged Lena; " was there noth- ing about my clothing, or in my pockets that you have preserved?" "Lor, honey," said Mrs. Bowers, touching her head, "I believe there was a little brass thing with. hair in it, in one of the pockets, but where it is now 'dear above knows.' William, look in that black teapot on the               ,.   Io08    Our New 'Minister. top shelf; or you better hand it to me, you men are so clumsy and sure to break some- thing." Then taking this general receptacle of " odds and ends," she emptied the contents in her lap. There were spools, thimbles, bro- ken needles, bent pins, knitting shelf, pills, keys, side comb, buttons, warx, corks, buckles, twine, a ring, and a curious little locket con- taining some dark' brown hair; holding out the latter to Lena, she added, "this is the thing, you better take care of it yourself. Lena gladly received it and examined it closely, but could not see how it would aid her; so, with a disappointed look, she hung it on the chain with the ring Douglas had given her, as though these two hopeless emblems were fit companions for each other. But her aunt's illness, which commenced shortly after this, left her but little time for idle musings. Though )ouglas had not writ- ten to her, she still treasured the recollec- tion of his love; and when her aunt's death brought such an agonizing sense of loneliness, she felt if lhe would only send one kind word ;       .            ,.   Our Nezw Minister.     109 of sympathy, her cross would be easier to bear. Mr. Bowers engaged the services of a housekeeper shortly after his wife's death, but the burden of managing domestic affairs still devolved upon Lena. Mr. Handel did not call often, so she saw but little of .him, except at church. He only appeared in Sun- day-school once a month, to tell the cliildren a few anecdotes, and then Miss Warren mo- nopolized the whole of his spare time. The ring that Douglas had given to Lena was recognized, but no one ventured to ques- tion her about it. All the ladies agreed that if Douglas was any more than a friend or pastor to her, it was "perfectly disgusting." Belle came to the conclusion he must have lost it just before he went away, and that Lena had found it, for,ishe distinctly remem- bered seeing him with it on the day he had called to bid her good-by; and for other rea- sons, best known to herself, she kewls he, had not given it to her. The doctor's daughter was "just dying" to know hom she came to :               t   IIO    Our New 3itiltister. have it; but her manner was so dignified and reserved that no one approached her on the subject; so the matter was dropped, until there came a letter to her from Douglas, lwhen the subject was again relle-ed. As letters with a foreign stamp rarely passed through that office, it was not strange that Mr. James should liave duly noted the des- tination of this one, whilst distributing the mail. As soon as Douglas heard of her aunt's death, he thought it his duty to write a short letter of condolence, as follows: "MY DEAR Miss LENA: "It was with the profoundest sorrow that I have just heard of the demise of your aunt, and I should do myself an injustice if I did not .assure you of my heartfelt sympathhy in so great a bereavement. ' May He who tem- pers the wind to the shorn lamb,' enable vou to bear this trial. One of my sweetest mem- ories is of her kindness to you and all who knew her well; but Heaven only lends us tern-   Our New  Minister.    I I t poral blessings-our right to enjoy them is not in fee-simple. Let us, then, as we pass 'under the rod,' bear in mind, that our good Faither does not willingly 'afflict vor grieve the children of men' but all that He sends whether of joy or sadness, sunshine or storm, is for our good. i He seeks by trials such as this to chasten, soften, and subdue the heart: we are taught that "'It must be cleansed by sorrow's art, Ere it will yield a fragrance sweet, Ere it will shine, a jewel meet To lay before thy dear Lord's feet' "With loving remembrance to your uncle, and renewed assurances of my continued in- terest in all my flock, I am, " Most affectionately, your Pastor "D. S." It is needless to say how much Lena treas- ured these few words, from  one so dear; but her acknowledgment of them was in a manner quite as formal, for she did not wish   "2    Our New Minister. to invite a correspondence that would excite hopes which might never be realized. She longed for a personal sympathy, but Mr. Handel did not seem to harmonize with her ideal of a parish priest; and he was now so taken up with Miss Warren, that he seemed unable to appreciate the wants of others. She had lately been left a legacy of considerable amount, by which her many charms were greatly enhanced in the eyes of some; and as Mr. Handel had been offered a mission in one of the Western States, lie con- sidered it most expedient for him to seek a wife who would be willing to share his labors and rewards. Only in a general way had he spoken his mind, when several ladies of the parish interested themselves in advancing his plans. Belle had almost ceased to consider her- self as engaged to Mr. Stirling, and as her brother and Carrie were very soon to be mar- ried, she thought it would be " real nice " to have a double wedding; and if Mr. Handel should propose, she saw inexhaustible sources   Our zvesw lIin;ister.   113 I  of pleasure in the far West, in assisting the Choctaw squaws to string beads, and em- broider moccasons; besides, it would just serve Mr. Stirling right, for not being a bet- ter correspondent, if she could slip off before he came back. Every body said she ought to marry a minister, and " every body" knows." In due time the proposal came. One morning, just as Belle had finished her breakfast, she received quite a long note from Mr. Handel, and hastened to the parlor to read it. In it was contained a detailed ac- count of their intercourse during the past few months, and a brief recital of his prospects for the future. It was not without a certain,: amount of sentiment, and contained also a 6erse of poetry,' which Belle recognized as part of a hymn which she had seen in an old collection of "Watt's Melodies." It closed with an urgent appeal that she would "join her life with his, and share the struggles and triumphs of the holy calling in which he was so unworthy a servant; and that when he called that evening, she would signify her 8   Ii4    Our New Minister. acceptance by wearing the pink silk which he had admired so much at the last meeting of the sewing society." In conclusion he prayed the choicest blessings of a benign Providence, and signed himself "Your hopeful Heber." Belle did not exhibit as much agitation as the occasion would seem to demand; from which it was inferred that the note was not much of a surprise after all. Carrie declared that she had been writing her name on scraps of paper in her portfolio, for a week before; that she had found several pieces with "Bell Handel" written on them, and then scratched out, as if she was not favorably impressed by the looks of it; but after all "What's in a namnae?" In the evening, when Mr. Handel was an- nounced, Belle entered the parlor attired in the desiredl costume, to which was added a pink bow on her neck and hair. Neither would ever tell what had tran- spired at this interview, but the next day the engagement was generally known, though not formally announced.   Our Nezv AMinister.    IIS 'During the weeks which followed Belle anld COrrie! were busy with all sorts of fancy sewing and stitching,' makin g arrangements for attendants, receiving the many calls of curious and interested friends, and ten thou- sand little matters, which had to be arranged.   '"C A, Y -0R*  CHAPTER XI. 'OUGLAS had lingered longer on the continent of Europe than he intended, but in the agreeable society of Mr. Egerton and his wife time seemed to speed withiout his knowledge. While stopping at the various places of in- terest, on their way back to England, they planned numerous excursions on foot and otherwise, and these called forth an amount of physical exercise and endurance which plainly showed that both he and Mrs. Eger- ton were greatly benefitted by their travels. As business of importance necessitated Mr. Egerton's return home several weeks in ad- vance of Douglas, they determined to be to- gether until it was necessary-for them to part   Our New Minister.    117 in London; from which point it was the in- tention of Douglas to make a short trip-to Scotland and Ireland and tale a steamer; home from Liverpool. Paris failed to interest them as much as they anticipated. Neither had much shop- ping to do, nor did they have opportunity or iuclination to enter into its dissipations. The opera was poor,' and the whole city looked changed and deserted, since the overthrow of the Napoleonic rule., During the Francow Prussian war, they had, both. lent their sym- pathies to the people who had given them, in revolution times, a Lafayette; and so they feltI that in the humiliation of France they were among the captives and not the victors. After a brief sojourn at Versailles, they hurried over to England, and here they must part company. All the while that Douglas had spent with this most accomplished and agreeable couple, nothing had happened to mar their perfect enjoyment. Mrs. Egerton still- greeted him with the same sad smile, but she seemed to be less oppressed by her sor- s ..    f18    Our Nev- Minister. row while Douglas was with them, for he al- ways seemed so considerate, and at the same time so cheerful and happy. When the time came for them to part, a promise was exacted from him that he would make them a visit as soon as possible after his return home. It was a long while before he could rid him- self of the conviction that he had Been her face before. The features, the manner, the tone of voice, all appeared so familiar to him, that her image haunted him for days after she was gone. He almost regretted that he had not tried to know more of her past life, but he seldom sought a confidence he could not re- turn; and just now he preferred to be reticent on some points connected with his own exist- ence. One of the greatest points of interest in London, and one of which Douglas never seemed to tire, was Westminster Abbey. Not only/ was lie attracted by its magnificent proportions, but the interior was a constant source of study and delight. The interment of Charlqs Dickens had just taken place, and   Our New  Minister.   1 19 each day the tablet beneath which he was laid was streown with fresh flowers. The Sunday services were also most attractive. Once he saw a notice that Dean Stanley had invited King Kalakaua of the Sandwich Islands to deliver a lecture there;' but this was found to be a mistake, the notice having been circulated by some enemies of the Dean, who disapproved of the very liberal spirit which had been actuating him of late, and which had led him into the commission of some palpable blunders. .It grieved Douglas to see how some of the greatest men of the Established Church were gradually drifting into errors that would strike at the root of some of the fundamental principles of the Old Faith. Tile fear of this danger led him into a more charitable opinion of other extremists, who were likewise treading on forbidden ground. He was invited by some leaders of the Ritualistic party to attend a mission, which was then being holden in one of the poorest districts of the city. With these   I20    Our New  Minister. he soon became intimately acquainted, and found them to be members of a regularly or- ganized order, somethhing like the "Hepta- soplhs" of his native state. They spoke to him of the desirability of having their soci- ety represented in the American Church, and urged him to become a member. In order to do so it was necessary for him to take a vow of poverty and celibacy for three years, and at the end of that time to renew it, if he saw fit. He had no scruples on the score of "poverty," but considering his double engage- ment he did not see how he could promise "celibacy." He was fully alive to the magni- tude of their work, and really admired their earnest and self-denying labors; but after mature deliberation he declined being en- rolled as a member of the "College o f the Bachelor Saints." Shortly after this he re- ceived letters from home, announcing the en- gagement of Miss Warren to Mr. Handel. The news brought great relief to his mind, for he could now acknowledge his love for Lena, and perlhaps lie nighl now overcome her sern-   ous objections to marry, even if he could not remove, what seemed to her, an insurmount- able barrier. He was sure his love would stand the test of time, for it seemed to be strengthened by absence, and every new diffi- culty seemed to render the prize more pre- cious and more worthy of his seeking. His was not a love at ' first sight," nor a fitful dream that would be dissipated by waking up to the realities of life; but it grew with his growth, and strengthened with his strength.' From England Douglas made the tour of Scotland and Ireland, and almost every place he visited seemed charming and famil- iar, as his full acquaintance with history enabled him to appreciate views which would have been lost on a casual observer. - It was almost wiith a feeling akin to sadness that he reached Liverpool the day before the sailing of his steamer, and having selected his state- room, he sat down in his room for rest and thought. Though every day would bring Lim nearer to the idol of his heart, yet   122    (Our New Mfinister. the "old world" was about to fade from his view. Now and then our past life comes up for review, as it did to him, when his wanderings were so nearly over. He recalled each scene that he had witnessed, and how the com- panionship of Ir. Egerton and his wife had added to his enjoyment. What would have been a task, under other circumstances, had proved a source of unmingled pleasure. He wondered what greetings awaited him at home-what changes he would find, and how Lena would receive him. How ought he to act towards her when lie returned? Now was the time for him to relinquish all hopes of ever making her his wife, unless he intend- ed to brave all the objections and obstacles which would be thrown in his way. Had she been only poor, he might hope by industry and application to achieve greatness, which would bring at least a competence; but added to poverty was her doubtful parentage. Mrs. Baker had already hinted that serious objections would be made on that score, but   Our New Minisiter.    123 nothing except his own convictions of duty would have any weight. In his perplexity he could only pray and wait. He believed in the omnipotence of prayer, and patience was one of his virtues. i .  l   CHAPTER. XII. DURING the first week of Mr. Han- del's engagement, he was con- stantly in attendance upon Belle. On the following Sunday there was an unusu- ally large attendance of his parishioners, and his sermon abounded in allusions to angels, flowers, and divine love. It was an effort that was calculated to impress the female portion of his hearers. Mrs. Baker did not receive the news of the engagement with her usual complacency, but vented her disappointment by setting a much plainer table. English Breakfast Tea was substituted for the fragrant Imperial, because it was considered more fashionable; the bread was only toasted on one side, and   .. ,,vLCt .  1125 fish took the place of liver as a morning relish. Some of her boariei's suggested dried apples and warm water, ,as being yet more economical. At the solicitation of Miss Warren's family, Mr. Handel sought to change his western scheme for a parish nearer home, but in re- sponse to his application to the bishop of the adjoining diocese, he received an Easter cir- cular announcing the "clergy list full; every parish supplied." So, making a "virtue of necessity," he adhered to his first intention; and as arrangements for the wedding pro- gressed, he completed the details of his mis- sion; intending to make his trip to the new field of labor a bridal tour; and as two rival roads were at war, lhe was enabled to pur- chase tickets at greatly reduced prices. Many of the ladies who, had urged the propriety of his taking a wife, appeared to lose their inter- est in the affair as soon as preliminaries were settled. Belle was all confusion and bustle until the important day arrived, and then resumed her   126    Our Nezw Minister. accustomed composure. The anticipation of great events is always more exciting than the reality. Mr. Handel offered no serious objection to having the service performed at a private dwelling, instead of the churchb, so the same clergyman was engaged who had promised to officiate for Carrie. The wedding was arranged to take place a few days before Mr. Stirling's expected ar- rival, and proved to be a very select affair. Only the intimate friends of each family were invited, and immediately after their reception the happy pair were driving to the station, their many trunks going before and checked for Chicago. As these preparations and festivities were going on, Lena had many moments of sad- ness at the thought of her inability to parti- cipate in them. She was beginning to take less interest in her home and its duties since Mrs. Lake had come to keep house for her uncle, and this uncle seemed to take less in- terest in, her, since the arrival of this new   VZl, IVC. J lv Lrjl, r * 1' A/ housekeeper. She often noticed the two en- gaged in close conversation, and rightly sur- mised the topic was not always domestic economy. Mr. Bowers would often stop his labor in the field, ostensibly to drive the chickens out of the garden, but in reality to admire Mrs. Lake's trim figure as sihe busied herself at the dairy. Often, too, he would offer his services to assist in the churn- ing, averring that farm work was not pressing and he did not'care to be idle. It distressed Lena to think that he showed so little apparent sorrow for her aunt's death, and so soon seemed to take pleasure in the society of a stranger; but perhaps she did not know how deeply the old man felt his loss, and his fondness for female companion- ship may have been the strongest assurance that his wife was missed, and that she had been a great comfort to him. There was a refinemnent of feeling and man- ner about Lena which we are not apt to find in a person occupying her station in life; but had she been perfection itself, society would *"    I28    Our NNewr Minister. not have recognized her as a fit wife for Douglas; sucll perversity and contradictions we find in human nature.' When the day approaclhed for his return, many conflicting emotions filled her heart. She longed to hear his well-known voice, yet feared to trust herself to meet him. She had determined there should be only the in- tercourse of mutual friendship between them, but when he left the train it so happened that she was the first to bid him welcome home. His warm pressure of the hand and lier rising color, spoke a different language from their formal words of greeting. Douglas was kindly received by all of his parishioners, but there was no approach to enthusiasm. His attachment for Lena had become known, or at least suspected, and met with a hearty disapproval. Since Mr. Han- del's ministrations in the church, the ordering of the services had so changed that the old style of conducting worship created consider- able remark. Before lie went away, he rarely heard the divisions in the church discussed,   but now every one seemed to be taking sides, and calling themselves members of some par. ty. He wisely ignored these differences, and his first sermon was merely "An Account of the Faith Abroad," and its comparison with the simplicity of worship at home. When he gave thanks for safe return from sea, at least one hearty amen was responded. Mrs. Baker received him with her usual urbanity of man- ner, and in a few  hours posted him in all ' the news of the parish; not omitting the pre- vailing suspicion about'his pencAant for Miss Lena, which she had taken the liberty to con- tradict, as she-knew he had no idea of throw- ing himself away. Douglas briefly thanked her for her kindly interest, but assured her that when he took a wife, it would be one of his own choosing. After a few moments of silent thought she said, "But, Mr. Stirling, you surely would not marry ,tlat girl?" "Why not?" he asked. "Because it wouldn't do," urged  Mrs. Baker. 9   130    Our New Minister. "Why not?" asked Douglas again. "Well, one thing she is poor," responded Mrs. Baker; " besides, although she is good enough in her way, most of your congregation do not approve of it." "Then, I suppose," remarked Douglas, "I am to take some one of their selection." "No, not that," she answered, "but you might get most any one you want." "Provided I did not happen to want her," added Douglas. "I fear if you ladies had con- trol of the matter of pairing off the young folks, some of the most worthy would be left out in the cold." "And," continued Mrs. Baker, "if more judgment was used in the selection of wives, there would be fewer unhappy matches; it is strange how many persons 'marry in haste to repent at leisure.'" Douglas felt the force of the objections to his choice, and wondered what was the proper course for him to pursue. Should he do vio- lence to his own feelings on the subject, in order to propitiate certain conventional ideas   UOr Ntew Minister.    I31 of society? Whatever might be the associa- tions of the woman he loved, over them she had no control; there could be no fault found with her individually-her education, her appearance, her demeanor, were unex- ceptionable. His salary was small, and though a vestry- meeting had been called to consider the pro- priety of increasing it, there- was not a quo- rum present, in consequence of a political discussion in the immediate neighborhood. Fortunately, Douglas cared but little; for the luxuries of life, and was content with ordi- nary comforts. And even upon this point 'his mind was soon relieved, for one day, just as he was wishing for wealth for the sake of another, a letter was received from his un- cle's executor, containing the gratifying intel- ligence that he had discovered his title to some mountain lands which were once con- sidered worthless, but were now found to contain coal and iron in such large quanti- ties that an offer had already been made which would pay off all indebtedness of the   132    Our IVNw Miniister. estate, and still leave Douglas quite a hand- some fortune. As soon as he received this piece of news, he felt that he could now claim Lena for his bride, without the feeling of dependence upon others for support; but what was his astonishment to find her as inflexible as ever. "You do not seem to rejoice even in my good fortune," said Douglas. "Yes, I do," replied Lena, "but that very fortune makes me the more unwilling to put myself in the way of your further advance- ment. Believe me, Mr.. StilHing, I am not in- sensible to the sacrifices you are willing to make for me, but I feel that it would be bet- ter for us both if we could conquer any fancy we may have for each other." "Do you not think that is a matter beyond our control," asked Douglas; "how can I ever cease to think lovingly of one whose very existence is, as it were, a part of my life; can we teach the heart, as we would educate the mincl?"   Our Vew Mnlzzster.    133 "We can try," replied Lena, "and as we may not see each other for some time, per- haps the task may be easier than we sup- pose." "Not see each other!" exclaimed Douglas. "What do you mean?" "Oh, I thought I had told you," said Lena; "it has caused me so much thought, I im- agined every one knew it: I have accepted the position of companion to an invalid lady near the city, and leave next week for my new home. I saw an advertisement in the Church Journal, answered it, and wasn accept- ed. My home now is so different from what it was when you first knew me, that I cannot bear to feel dependent any longer; and as my uncle is determined to marry again, I shall not be needed here." Douglas felt the force of her remarks, and could offer no objection, though the bare thought of a separation caused him a sharp pang of sorrow, and he was half provoked with old Mr. Bowers for entertaining thoughts of a second marriage. Almost eveiy evening   134    Our New Minister. he would stroll over to Riverside, and as Mr. Bowers and Mrs. Lake were busily occupied with their own affairs, he had ample oppor- tunity to enjoy Lena's society without being subjected to intrusion. The time for her to leave drew near, and although the train left at a very early hour, Douglas was at the sta- tion, and as she stepped into the cars he handed hier a small bouquet of the choicest flowers; with trembling hand. she received it and tried to express her thanks, but the heart was too full for words, and the one spark- ling drop that moistened her eye was more precious to":Douglas than the most eloquent expressions of gratitude. His attentions to Lena had now become a general topic of con- versation in the parish, and his lately ac- quired fortune made them consider her more unworthy of his love.- His salary was poorly paid, and the interest in his sermons seemed to flag, and but for his own means he would have been " starved out." Though Mrs. Bowers had been dead but a few months, yet her surviving partner, finding   Our New   Minister.     I35 loneliness oppressive, prevailed on Mrs. Lake to share his fortune. How often it happens that those who marry late in life show the most affection. Unlike the body, the heart never seems to grow old.   CHAPTER    XIII. T would be difficult to describe the feelings of Douglas after Lena had gone. Every thing seemed changed, and he was more or less affected by these changes. For awhile it was hloped that he would now select a companion who would be more acceptable to his friends and parish- ioners; but months passed by and he re- mained the same. Never once did he regret the choice he had made, but it often occa- sioned sorrow that so few approved of his selection. Towards the close of the year Mrs. Handel paid a flying visit to her old home, bring- ing with her a lovely pair of twins, who, with their mother, were to rermain until the   Oumr NiVetw Minister.  137 adjournment of the general convention. Her husband was on his way to New York, to present a memorial from his Indian mission against6 the appointment of a new bishop, who was suspected of favoring the views of a growing party in the West, which openly opposed his idea of an evangelical alliance. This alliance was a pet scheme of his, and was designed to unite all the various sects of believers in one body, vhose only requirement should be an acknowledgment of the inspira- tion of the Lord's Prayer. As the only day he spent in the neighbor- hood happened to be Sunday, he was invited by Douglas to preach the sermon; in the course of which he fully explained his origi- nal views, and severely criticised a commen- tary on the minor prophets whvjich had been lately published by an eminent English di- vin31 eclaring the views of the author on the subject of ealrthquakes bore evident marks of having been hastily written, and arguing from this that his theological ideas were hastily formed and, therefore, erroneous. The ser-   138    Our 'NLeew inister. mon was warmly eulogized by Mr. Edwards, but was considered too doctrinal by most of the congregation, who advocated what was called "practical sermons," or as Mrs. Baker described them, "sermons that were flowery and illustrated by affecting anecdotes." Although Douglas labored with as much earnestness as ever, there was no enthusiasm among his people, and no approach to a cer- tain " gush," which is such an essential char- acteristic of what is understood by popular success. But let us leave him to his toils for a while, as we follow Lena to her new home.' After a long and tedious ride, almost blind- ed by the dust and cinders of a badly man- aged road, she reached her destination, and the lady to whom she was to be companion proved to be the Mrs. Egerton that Douglas had met while he was abroad. After her re- turn home her husband conceived the idea of employing some young lady to be constantly with her, as he was away from home on busi- ness forseveral days at a time, and his wife   Our New M3inister.    139 seemed disposed to relapse into her former sadness and despondency. He had sent his carriage to meet Lena at the station, and as soon as the servant had attended to her bag- gage, he opened the door for her to enter. It was a handsome and luxurious equipage, and as the gallant grays dashed off, Lena re- clined upon the comfortably cushioned seats, endeavoring to compose lherself for meeting arnd making new acquaintances. Soon leav- ing the broad avenue, they entered a lawn leading to the stately mansion where she was to make her home. Choicest evergreens were scattered over the grounds, and the air was ladened with the perfume of flowers. In the' dim twilight she could barely discern the numerous walks and beautiful statuary which surrounded the house. At the door she was met by the housekeeper, who, after a most cordial greeting, informed her that Mr. Egerton was not at home, and that his wife being somewhat indisposed had retired to her room, and would meet her in the morn- ing; but, in the meanwhile, she would try   I40    Our 1Vew Minister. to make her comfortable. This kind and generous reception made Lena feel more at home than she expected, and she was glad of the opportunity to have a good night's rest, before she faced her new duties. Her trunk being disposed of, she was led to the dining room, where a bountiful meal awaited her. The room which was pointed out as hers was on the same foor with Mrs. Egerton, but on the opposite side of the hall, and nearer the stairway. As she entered it she was most agreeably impressed with its arrange- ments as to beauty and comfort. On the bureau was a tasteful bouquet which had been placed there by the thoughtful housekeeper. By the window was a writing table with pens and paper, and some choice books of diver- sion and devotion. A comfortable chair seemed to invite Lena to rest and thought, and as she threw herself into it her eyes rested upon a small portrait that hung upon the-wall, so like herself that for an instant she supposed it was a mirror that reflected her own image. She wondered   Our N1'CTw Alinistcr.   I41 if that-, could be the lady she was expected to serve; if so, she was sure it would be an easy and pleasant task, for such a face must be- long to a kind and gentle being. . Oh! if it were only her mother, or some near relative! how gladly she would try to add to their hap- piness by doing all in her power to give them pleasure. Accustomed as she had' always been to a plain style of living, she was sur- prised that she was not more embarrassed by her present luxurious surroundings, for all the rooms and halls through which she had passed were both handsomely and ex- pensively, furnished. The table had been set with a solid silver service, and the num- ber of servants and attendants indicated wealthll. She was too weary for a longer musing, so she prepared to retire. Her prayer, as she knelt at the bedside, was a thankful' acknowl- edgment of Divine goodness in giving her so many blessings; and witle a petition' for strength to fill acceptably the duties of her new position, was a prayer for Douglas, and   "2    Orl Newu Minister.  for the removal of the obstacles which pre- vented their union. Sweet and refreshing was the rest which came to her tired body and mind, until bright rays of the morning sun, and the joyous war- blings of, birds, waked her from pleasant dreams. She feared she had overslept herself, and might be late to breakfast, so she hur- riedly dressed, and hastened to the parlor, ex- pecting to meet her employer there, but found only the housekeeper, busy sweeping and dusting; so she walked out on the porch, to enjoy the morning air, and admire the foliage and flowers yet sparkling with the early dew. Mrs. Egerton arose feeling better than usual, and as she passed the room which had been occupied by Lena, finding the door open, she entered to see if she were still there, and to a ccompany her down to breakfasts Lena was gone, and in her haste had forgotten her chain and locket, with the ring Douglas had given her. These ornaments caught the eye of Mrs. Egerton, who imagined that she recognized   Our Nzewe, Minister.    143 the locket. Taking it in her hland she found  that it was the same' that had once belonged to her. Touching a secret spring which she remembered, the back flew open, and there was the likeness of her husband. Could the owner of this trinket be her child, whose loss had caused her so many years of mourning and yearning hopes for her recovery? She could scarcely refrain from rushing down and claiming her, but then she thought she must have yet stronger evidence. Her child had a peculiar scar in front of her left ear, close to the hair; if the young lady she had employed possessed this mark, then she neeced no fur- ther assurance. Her emotion was so, great she could hardly preserve an apparent! com- posure. What if her prayer of years was now about to be answered! Lena had returned to the parlor by the time Mrs. Egerton entered, her hair was rolled back, and the scar was plainly perceptible. As soon as Lena saw Mrs. Egerton approach- ing, she seemed to have an instinctive feeling that her suspicions of the last night were cor-   "4    Our New IMinzister. rect. As they moved towards each other, Mrs. Egerton exclaimed, "Lena! my child!" "Mother! my mother!" shrieked Lena, and they were locked in each other's arms. The shock was too great for the weak nerves of Mrs. Egerton, and Lena soon discovered that she was showering kisses upon ler moth- er, who had fainted in her arms. The old housekeeper who had witnessed this strange meeting between parent and child, adminis- tered the proper restoratives, so that in a lit- tle while Mrs. Egerton had recovered, but during the whole time had never relaxed her grasp upon Lena's hand. During the confu- sion and explanations that followed, breakfast was almost forgotten, but finally they went out to the dining room, with their arms around each other, and both flushed with excite- ment. Never were two happier beings as they listened to the story of the past which each had to tell, and by the time the meal was fin- ished Mr. Egertop made his appearance, and having heard the nenws firom one of the ser-   Our New Minister.    145 vants, was prepared to meet and welcome his lost child. After the happy group had returned to the parlor the neighbors began to call and offer their congratulations. Lena met them with such an easy grace and dignity her parents could not help feeling a pride in her. During the entire day they could not bear to have her out of their sight, Mrs. Egerton playfully remarking, that as she had been employed to be her companion, she had a right to be very exacting. Her room was changed to one opening into the apartment occupied by her parents, and in it nothing was omitted which' wealth and taste could supply. After the usual evening devotions of the family, they retired; Lena kissing her father good night, who, though hot a demonstrative man, evinced a tender- ness and love as sincere as it was unusual. Mrs. Egerton accompanied Lena to her room, seeming to treat her as the same little child she had lost many years before; and as she helped her to prepare for bed, Lena could 10   "6    Our Nezv Minister. not help smiling at her attentions, and often both would be talking at the same time, as if fearful of forgetting what they had to say. One topic of conversation led to another until the story of Mr. Stirling's love was told, and Mrs. Egerton had given her approval, at the same time declaring that she had no idea of parting with her daughter at present; then kissing her good night she left her to her rest. Such a rest from labor and care Lena had never before experienced. The events of the day just closed seemed like a pleasant dream, too delightful to last. Yesterday, and all was dark and uncertain, but now the sun had burst through the clouds and all was bright and joyous. As the returning prodigal caused more joy than the son who had never gone astray, so the lost child found is dearer to its mother than one who has never left the parental roof. Why is it?   * CHAPTER XIV. ENA'S absence from  her parish did not bring contentment or hap- piness to Douglas, for many com- plaints came to his ears. There were so many collections for charitable purposes; and when they were exhausted, there was a "sink- ing fund" for churchl extension, which Mr. Edclwards declared would sink " the parish if kept up. Objection was made to the Easter i  and Christmas decorations, as being too ex- travagnt for a rural church. The bare men- tion of building a parsonage would excite open hostility. On one occasion IDouglas sprained his foot, while hanging a wreath in the church, and was compelled to use a cane the following day; this was c onsidered so Ex ar decla was &hsidered  so   "8    Our Neiw Minister. unbecoming in a- clergyman, and such an assumption of "city airs," that it was made the subject of severe criticism at the next meeting of the sewing society. Thus his life was daily grolwing more and more irksome, until at last he seriously considered the pro- priety of sellding in his resignation. His salary was so small and so uncertain that the loss of it did, not cause him much concern, but in order to fully determine what was best for him to do, lie decided to go away for a few days, and calmly consider the best course to pursue. Now, he thought, would be a good time to pay the visit which he had promised Mrs. Egerton when they parted in England; so having hunted up her address lie started on the journey. He was no sooner gone when it was reported in the parish that his visit was to Lena, though in reality he did not yet know where she was. The train made good time, and taking a carriage from the station, he drove towards the residence of Mr. Egcrton; when he had   Our New Minister.     14 reached the lawn leading to the honse h dismissed Ihis driver, and walked leisul'el towards the dwelling. The evening air wat so balmy and pleasant he frequently stoppe, to enjoy the shade and shrubbery, and though "wlhat a delightful home this must be." A he was thus musing, whom should he see bu Lena, seated under a noble' elm, weaving wreath of orange blossoms. She was mor expensively attired than he had been accus tomed to see her, and wore such a swee smile of contentment that he could hardly be lieve he was not, mistaken, until thel recogni tion was mutual, and she rose to greet him. "Why, Lena! 7 he exclaimed, " you are th last person I expected to meet here!" "I  this the family whose advertisement you an swered?" "Yes, Mr. Stirling," she said, "but I thin you might give our sex the chance of askin the first question. What brings you hern and what is the news in your parish?" "Well," he replied, "I have some idea ( resigning my charge, but before doing so, ,   .,   I 50   Our New Minister. thought I would take counsel of my old friend Mrs. Egerton, since I am denied the pleasure of having an adviser nearer home. O Lenn, if you would only change your determination, what a comfort and joy we might be to each other l" "Do you think your happiness would be increased as you suppose, and would you be willing to take me just as I am," she asked. "Yes, yes,;" he eagerly answered, and tall;- ing her hand, he asked if le might not now take the ring she was wearing on her chain, and place it on her finger. "You may," she said, " since you seem to be in such earnest; but you must obtain Mrs. Egerton's consent." "  Oh, that will not be a difficult task," re- plied Douglas, " if she is still the same lovely character I knew when we were fellow travel- lers in Europe." "Do not be too sanguine," remarked Lena, with a smile, "she is as lovely as you say, but she may not be willing to part with a compan- ion who has been with her such a little while."   Our New Minister.    151 "I too, need a companion," said Douglas, "Though I am not an invalid in body, I am very much one in mind; and you know it is not every one who has the power to minister to a' mind diseased.'" This pleasant interchange of thought might have lasted much longer, but Mrs. Egerton was seen coming iin search of Lena; and seeing Mr. Stirling, she warmly welcomed him. "How well you are looking," exclaimed Douglas, "I think your trip abroad has done wonders." "Ah, Mr. Stirling," she replied, "my re- turning health and spirits must be attributed to another cause, a kind Providence has re- stored to me a long lost child," and she glanced lovingly at Lena. "What does all this mean," asked Douglas, looking to Lena for an answer. "It means that Mrs. Egerton is my moth- er," said Lena. "Your mother? Impossible!" exclaimed Douglas. 1,   152    Our New Minister. "It is true," added Mrs. Egerton; and then she repeated the circumstances connect- ed with Lena's return: how two criminals lately condemned had confessed the facts re- lating to her abduction many years before; ending by saying, " and you, Mr. Stirling, if I am correct in judging by your deep interest in my daughter, wish to assist me in guarding her in the future, Well, I suppose it must be as you desire, but it is very liard for' me to give her up;" and her eyes filled for a mo- ment; but Lena threw her arms around her, and kissing away her tears, proposed that they should start for the house. There was so much to be said on this first evening of his visit, it was quite late before Douglas was shown to his room. Ample time was afforded him on the following day to con- sult with his friends as to his future course. Mr. Egerton being a member of the beauti- ful gothic church which stood on the avenue near his residence, asked Douglas to allow his name to be used as a candidalte for the rectorship, and as it had been vacant for   Our New Minister.     153 some time, he was elected without difficulty. His resignation was sent on to his old parish, but as the news of Lena's fortunate recovery by her parents, and of their wealth and posi- tion, had also been received, there was some questioning as to the propriety of Mr. Stirling leaving so soon. They expressed their will- ingness to increase his salary if he would remain. Mrs. Baker was not lavish in her praises of Douglas, 'but declared she always thought Lena had a very "queenly bearing." The Miss Pilstons discovered a distant re- lationslip to the Egerton family, and would have offered their congratulations to Lena, but they were about to join the "Sisterhood of the Perpetual Virgin," and were thus de- nied the opportunity of carrying out their benevolent intentions. Mr. Egerton was not unmindful of the claims of Mr. Bowers to his gratitude, and rewarded his kindness to Lena by buying and present- ing him with the farm on which he was living as tenant.   154    Our New Minister. Many were the happy days Lena and Doug- l las spent in talking of the past and arrang- ing for the future. He returned to his old parish only to remain until they succeeded in obtaining the services of another rector, which was accomplished in a very little while, as there were eleven applicants for the posi- tion. Among this number was the Rev. He- ber Handel, but as he was now a man of increased and increasing family, his claimsc were not considered for a moment. The little church to which Douglas had been called had a neat and convenient par- sonage attached, and was in the immediate vicinity of Mr. Egerton's residence. Here he had a study and bedroom furnished for his use, but most of his time was spent in the Egerton mansion. Lena seemed unwilling to fix a day for their marriage, and Mrs. Egerton encouraged the delay, unless Douglas would promise to make his home with them. Finally he consented to spend a large por- tion of his time with them, but determined to   Our New Minister.     1 55 call the rectory his home. He assured Lena that her parents were almost as dear to him as they were to herself, but it was not a good plan for a newly wedded couple to make their permanent home with the family of either side. A few months of uninterrupted enjoymnt, and Douglas was on the eve of the day which had been appointed for the marriage. It was Easter week, and the church was still adorned with flowers, and the echo of her joyous anthems had hardly died away. The bishop had consented to perform the cere- mony, and at his desire arrangements were made for the holy communion. The rectory had been neatly furnished, and the congregation had shown their interest in the occasion by many presents of a substan- tial character. Douglas, Lena, and her parents were seat- ed at the table, a happy group, save only a slade of sadness, which occasionally clouded Mrs. Egerton's face at the thought of part-' ing with her "apmpanion,"as she sometimes   I56    Our New Minister. called Lena, who had daily become more pre- cious to her mother. The day following dawned bright and cloudless, and by noon the little church was crowded to its full capacity. At the appointed hour Douglas and Lena stood before the chancel rail, and solemnly took the vows that made them man and wife. Mr. Egerton gave the bride away, and his wife's emotion was soothed by the holy ser- vice which followed. Never before had the people seen such an impressive marriage, and one which seemed so fully to represent its great importance. After the bride and groom had reached their carriage, hundreds of the congregation, both rich and poor, crowded round to offer their congratulations to their "new minister," and never did Douglas and Lena look so hap- py, so well, so contented, and so hopeful of the future. May no storm arise, to endanger their peace; no cloud, to cast its gloom athwart life's way; no sorrow, to interrupt their light   Our New Minister.     1 57 of joy; no tears, to dim the eye; no adverse wind or wave, to cause alarm; no partings, until the last, when an earthly home shall be exchanged for the rest of the redeemed in Paradise. THE END. ,       WORKS PUBLISHED BY T. 7VHITTA-K:ES 2 Bible House, New-York. T. WHTTAKER will send any of the following      books, by postage prnpaid, to any part of the United States, on rcedpt of  the catalogue price. ECCmES, rASTICAL POLITY OF TH                 . 2 TESTAMENT.        A Study   for the Present Crisis Church of England.     By the Rev. G. A. JACOB, D E Head-Master of Christ's Hospital. 8vo, cloth, 424 p The kindness of its tone, the reliableness of its facts, the scope of its arg and the manly ability which characterizes it as a whole, make it an at work.--Pullit and Pew. The work is written in :an exceptionably able manner, and the reputatic author, besides its evident merit, will insure it a very general reading.--N. Y Although strongly attached to the Church of England, the author is fu] to the necessity of Reform, a necessity which now seems, on all sides, to b aized. His work is characterized by great clearness and fairness of sta and fidelity to the teaching of the Scriptures. It will be found a very work in moulding the somewhat chaotic opinions which prevail on these in our Church.-Church and State. LIFE LESSONS FROM THE BOOK PROVERBS. By Rev. WILLIAMS STEVENS PERRY 8vo, cloth, 36i pages. $1.75. Among the many books recer tly published in New-York, we call specil tion to a work written by the Rev. Dr. Perry, one of our most emini esteemed Clergymen. It consists of a numbel of lectures on the Book verbs, origir lly prepared for, and delivered to, the young people in his It is written m a style at onze elegant, terse and vigorous, and, dealing i most practical subjects of life and morals, it illustrates, in a most interest happy manner, the lessons which can be derived from that inspired wor Israelitish King. It is interesting to read in the intervals of leisure, and nant with wise suggestions, and apt thoughts, useful to the preacher or la the enforcement of uth and morility.- Srit of Mission.   UNITY IN VARIETY. A Series of Arguments based on the Divine Workmanship in our Planet, the Constitu- tion of the Human Mind, and the Inspired History of Religion. By GEORGE WARBURTON WELDON, M.A., Trinity College, Cambridge. i6mo, cloth, 23o pages. $1.50. This work is an able plea for the broadest Christian brotherhood and charity. It exhibits true Christian unity. Not in a forced external uniformity of faith a..d worship, but in a spontaneous approximation of different lines of thought and feeling developed by individual freedom in all blanches of the Church.-Wash ington Chronicle. It is the result of careful study, of deep and earnest thought. and of sound judgment. There is a vigor in the style, which, in these times, when exquisite taste and namby-pamby utterances are thought to be alone suited to cars polite, is refreshing and mspimg.--Eiscoalian. LADY BETT'S GOVERNESS; OR, 'rHE CORBET CHRONICLES.        By  LUCY     ELLEN    GUERNSEY, author of " Winifred," " Irish Amy," " Langham      Revels," etc.   I2mo, cloth extra, 369 pages. $.5o0. It professes to give an episode in the life of a clergyman's daughter, who was thrown upon the world, and obliged to take service as a governess in a titled family. The scene is laid in England, and the times are those of Charles I., when Puritan and Prelate were entering upon those unhappy struggles which under. mined the foundations of both Church and State. The sympathies of the author are with such men as good Bishop Hall, who appears in the work; and yet she avoids assuming a party position, and deplores the sad extremes into which both sides fell. The story takes the form of a diary, which grows with interest to the end, giving many quaint and pleasing pictures of social life, and suggesting the "Chronicles of the Cotta Family."--The Churchman. HYMNS TO OUR KING.; By Prof. J. M. LEAVITT. i8mo, cloth, gilt.  75 cents, Extract from the Introduction of Rev. Dr. Ray Palmer: " Mr. Leavitt seems to the writer to have made a valuable contribution to this most important department of Christian literature.  It may reasonably be anticipated that these fresh and stiring lyrics will quicken the devout affection of many readers whose hearts are attuned to the praise of the blessed R-deemer." THIE TIRUE MARY. Being Mrs. Browning's Poem, "The Virgin Mary to the Child Jesus," with Comments and   Notes.   Edited by Rev. W. A. IUHLENBERG, D.D. * 8vo, cloth, red edges, 45 pages. 90o cents. I WOIULD NOT LIVE AL1WAY. Evangelized, by its Author, with the story of the Hymn, and a Brief Account of St. Johnland.      Largeasquare cloth, 28 pp.     $i. Dr. Muhlenberg's beautiful hymn has been well known in the Church for so long a time, that tis evangelizedversion of it, written in the author's latter days, ilbe received with much favor by those who have read and listened to the original-/hS-,u '  adu'at.   EFVANGELICAL SISTERHOODS. In Two Let- ters to a Friend. Edited by Rev. W. A. MUHLENBERG, D.D. Square I8mo, 59 pages.      Cloth, gilt, 75 cts.; paper, 50 cts. This subject, now agitating the minds of a number of Church people, has induced tile publisher to issue a new edition of-Dr. Muhlenberg's well-known work. In it will be found many valuable suggestions and hints to those interested in this department of Christian education-.-Protestant Churchm/tan. EMMANUEL9 AND OTHER STORIES. By ELLEN E. DICKINSON. l2mo, cloth, 123 pages, illustrated, 75 cts.; bound in tinted paper, gilt edges, $X.25. Contain- ing: Emmanuel, a Christmas Story-Johnny Redmcnd- Blind Else-The Little Vagabonds. A glance into this volume will sufficiently convince the reader that the writer of these four pretty stories has the ability for writing healthy juvenile books. She will undoubtedly make her mark in future productions. THE COTTAGE ON THE SHORE; OR, LITTLE GWEN'S STORY.      I8mo, I39 pages, illustrated.    60 cents. This little story is a perfect gem for children, and makes a valuable addition in the way of Sunday-school literature. It is a tale very pleasantly written, with a good moral tendency.-Church and State. MA RMADU'KE M' eRRY, THE MIDSHIP- .MAN. A Tale of Naval Adventures in By-gone Days. By W. H. G. KINGSTON.            Small 4to, cloth, handsomely illustrated, 405 pages. $2. A rattling, merry story of the adventures of a midshipman of good family and gentle birth. Not a particle of vice in the whole narrative; just the book for a boy, who will devour the contents with breathless eagerness. A story that will leave its mark for good on a boy's mind and morals. A capital Christmas present, -whether as a prize gift or otherwise. It is not often a tale of sea adventures is so healthy in its tone, so vigorous in its recital, so free from coarseness. It is a book very heartily to be commended, and Mr. Kingston has, in writing it, done some excellent service to mischief-loving, spirited boys, if they will but read it.-The Kecord. THE OLD IFORLD SFiYN WJITH YOUNG EYES. With Sixteen Handsome Illustrations of Famous Places. I2mo, cloth, 262 pages. $1.50. A Diary of Travel in Europe, pleasantly written, and so full of interesting inci. dents, allusion, and historical information, that the writer may well challenge attention. Pretty pictures of famous places and things-being illustrations o! noteworthy monuments-and thoughtful reflections adorn these modest, but really instructive pages.-New.York Observer. For travelers who intend to pass the summer vacation in visiting the same scenes, there could hardly be a more agreeable companion in the shape of a book than this attractive volume; while to those who, perhaps more wisely, stay at home, it brings the chief enticements of a European holiday before their eyes, without the drawback of sea-sickness, dusty roads, and indifferent fare. -Tk Teiun, eN. rY. T. WHITTAKER, 2 Bible House, New-Yor-   k   THOMAS WHITTAKER, Publisher, Bookseller and Importer, 2 BIBLE HOUSE, NEW YORK. AT JESUS' FEET.-A PRAYER, PROMISE, and Poem for every day in the year.   I2mo, cloth, gilt, $i 50 BRITTAN.- SHOSHIE, THE HINDOO ZENANA TEACHER.      By Miss HARRIET G. BRITTAN, author of "Kardoo," etc. Illustrated. I2mo, cloth .    .   $     25 The Zenana Mission is one of peculiar interest, and the pictures of home life in India which that able missionary, Miss Brittan, has drawn, give glimpses of the interior of heathenism which it would be hard otherwise to gain. The work is handsomely illustrated.--The Register. A very interesting work, showing the patient labor of those who are try. ing to spread the religion of Jesus in the dark places of Ihe earth. Home and Abroad. AROLS. - CHRISTMAS AND EASTER CAROLS, During the past two or three years we have issued twenty. five very popular Carols for Christmas-tide. Samples of Io may be had for 25 cents, or all for 50 cents, by enclosing stamps for postage. Organists and, musical directors will do well to ex- amine our Carols before making their final selection.  Samples of Easter Carols may be had for 25 cents by enclosing stamp for postage. COTTAGE ON THE SHORE (THE); or Little Gwen's Story.  I8mo, 39 pages, illustrated  . 6o This little story is a perfect gem for children, and makes a valuable ad- dition in the  way of Sunda,-school literature. It is a tale very pleasantly written, with a good moral tendency.-Churcl and State. COUNSEL AND COMFORT, FOR DAILY Life. Cloth,gilt     ..              .    .          00 DAVIES.-THEOLOGY AND MORALITY. ESSAYS on Questions of Belief and Practice. By the Rev. J. LLEWELYN DAVIES, M.A., with an Introduction by the Rev. HENRY C. POTTER, D.D.    Large     I2mo, cloth   .   . $2      oo Sound and sensible. The whole volume is well worth reading. Church Times. Mr. Davies' volume represents all that is best in that part of the Church to which he belongs.--The Spectator. This book is admirably adapted to give robustness, and common sense, and something like a Christian assurance to the very shaky and sickly faith "  which unhappily too often occupies the place of the reasonable and unfaltering conviction of well-considered truth.--Church, Journal    Publiceations of T. Whittaker.                 3 DICKINSON. - EMMANUEL, AND OTHER STO- ries. By ELLEN E. DICKINSON. X2mo, cloth, I23 pages. Containing:. Emmanuel, a Christmas Storv--Johnny Red- mond-Blind Else-Tlihec Little Vagabonds. Illustrated, 75 cents; printed on tinted paper, gilt edges  .  .    .   .    . $ 25 A glance intO this volume  will sufficiently convince tte reader that 'he writer of these four pretty stories has the ability for writing healthy j uven- ile books. She will undoubtedly make her mark in future productions. nAMES.- ANAGRAMS: A GAME FOR THE IN- struction of the Young, and for the Amusement of Every One     .    .   .    .   .    .        .    .   $I oo00 DIRECTIONS FOR PLAYING.--To play this game, select the name of any person, place, idea, or thing, and tlhen take those letters from the boix by which the word is spelled. After throwing the letters out of their pro- per order, hand them to the player, who must re-arrange them in their proper connection, and form the wvord. Of old, this game tended slightly to superstition; yet the professional ransposer of words was lheld in high estimation, one of them being actu- ally pensioned by Louis XIII. James 1. was gratified to know that his name, James Charles Stuart, could be followed in the same letters by 'Claims Arthur's Seat,' demonstrations, as his vanity and superstition would lead him to believe, that he was the rightful successor to the crown. One of the prettiest of modern anagrams is the following: 'Florence Nightingale; flit on, cheering angel.' In Pilate's question to our LORD, ' Quid est veritas ?' (What is truth ?) the anagram answers, ' Est vir quid adest' (It is the man before you). In former times such results were look- ed upon with suspicion, but now the whole question of anagrams has been taken into the field of pure amusement.-- The Gazette. FAMILIAR         SAYINGS, AND        WHO     SAID Them. A highly interesting and instructive Game for the Parlor    .     .     .   .    .        .             75 c PEIKIE. - LIFE; A BOOK FOR YOUNG MEN. BY VtJ   Rev. J. CUNNINGHAM GEIKIE, D.D.; with an Introduction by Reav. S. IH. TYNG, Jr., D.D. I2mo, cloth  .   $I 50 GUERNSEY. - LADY BETTY'S GOVERNESS; or, The Corbet Chronicles. By LUCY ELLEN GUERNSEY, author of " Winifred," "lrish Amy," etc. I2mo, cloth extra, 369 pages    .   .    .   .    .    .   .    .   $I 50 It professes to give an episode in the life of a clergyman's daughter, who was thrown upon the world, And obliged to take service as a governess in a titled family. The scene is laid in England, and the times are those of Charles I., when puritan and prelate were entering urpon those unhappy struggles which undermined the foundations of both Chlurch and State. The sympathies of the author arc with such men as good Bishop Hall, who appears in the work; and yet she avoids assuming a party position, and deplores the sad extremes into which both sides fell. The story takes th'e form of a diary, which grows with interest to the end, giving many quaint and pleasing pictures of social life, and suggesting the " Chronicles of h.e Cotta Family. The Churchman.  GUERNSEY. - WINIFRED; OR, AFTER MANY Days. By the same author. i2mo, cloth, 335 pages . $i 50 This is a charming story by the well-known author, Lucy Ellen Guernsey. It is a story of Monmouth's rebellion, in the reign of Charles II. and his unfortunate brother. 'The object is to show that even in that dark period of England's history there were to be found shining instances of devout piety and virtue. EAVENLY            SUNSHINE;- CONTAINING Texts and Verses in large type on each page. Printed on fine tinted paper, and mounted in same style as " Prayer and Precept." 39 pages      .                           $I.  .  .  .  oo HENRY. - ABOUT MEN AND THINGS; OR, PA- pers from My Study-Table Drawer. By Rev. C. S. HIENRY, D.D. I2mo, cloth extra     .   .    .   .    .  $I 50 It is so easy, so fluent, and so natural, that the reader could, without ef- fort, imagine he was not perusing an attractive book, but listening to a brilliant conversationalist.-Chzurch and State. The tone is healtliy, and its teachings are all the more appreciable, be- cause they are brought to us with force and directness.--Evening Express. The author has a way of going down to the root of things, and of seeing through shams, both in society and in ethics, that is not only entertaining, but also very effective.-- The Churc/hman. A HOUSEHOLD LITURGY; OR, ORDER OF Daily Prayer for Families. By Rev. C. S. HENRY, D.D. ISmo, cloth .    .   .    .    .   .    .   .         50 c We heartily recommend its adoption and use in the family. Its offices are short. No companion-book is needed, for this contains Creed, Hymns, Psalms, and Collects as well as Prayers. It will be found suita- ble for all sorts and conditions of mnen. The volume is a brief but well- arranged Manual of J evotions for use in families.--The Chltz/ch and State. This book is complete in itself, not requiring the use of any other book for the conduct of domestic worship.--The Guardian. JACOB.- THE ECCLESIASTICAL POLITY OF THE New Testament. A Study for the Present Crisis in the Church of England. By the Rev. G. A. JAco3, D.D., late Head-Master of Christ's Hospital. 8vo, cloth, 424 pages . $2 oo Although strongly attached to the Church of England, the author is fully alive to the necessity of Reform, a necessity which now seenms, on all sides, to be recognized. His work is characterized by great clearness and fairness of statement, and fidelity to the' teaching of the Scriptures. It will be found a very valuable work in moulding the somewhat chaotic opinions Which prevail on these subjects in our Church.-Church and State. The work is written in an exceptionally able manner, and the reputa- tion of its author, besides its evident meriti will insure it a very general leading.- New York Times  KINGSTON.-MARMADUKE MERRY, THE MID. shipman. A Tale of Naval Adventures in By-gone Days. By W.H. G. KINGSTON. Small 4to, cloth, handsomely illus- trated, 405 pages                   .    ..  .  .  .      $2 oo  "-A rattling, merry story of the adventures of a midshipman of good family and gentle birth. Not a particle of vice in the whole narrative; just the book for a boy, who will devour the contents with breathless eager- ness. A story that will leave its mark for good on a boy's mind and morals. A capital Christmas present, whether as a prize-gift or otherwise. It is not often a tale of sea-adventures is so healthy in its tone, so vigorous in its recital, so free from coarseness. It is a book very heartily to be commended, and Mr. Kingston has, in writing it, done some excellent service to mischief-loving, spirited boys, if they will but read it." I5~ I The Record. LEAVITT.-HYMNS TO OUR KING. By Rev. Prof. J. M. LEAVITT.  I8mo, cloth, gilt               .   60 c Extract from the Introductidn of Rev. Dr. Ray Palmer: "Mr. Leavitt seems to the writer to have made a valuable contribution to this most im- portant department of Christian literature. It may reasonably be antici- pated that these fresh and stirring lyrics will quicken the devout affection of many readers whose hearts are attuned to -the praise of the blessed Redeemer." LESSING.- TWO FINE STEEL-PLATE ENGRAV- INGS. By FREDERIC LESSING. I. LUTHER'S THESIS NAILED TO THE CHURCH-DOOR IN WITTENBERG. (Die Angeschlagenen Thesen Luther's an der Schlosskirche zu Wittenberg.) II. LUTHER BURNING THE POPE'S BULL. (Luther Verbrennt die Bann Bulle.) These engravings are 26x2I inches, printed on the best heavy plate paper, with the titles in both English and German, and are sold at $4 for the pair. They will be sent by mail without extra charge. They are also furnished in fine black walnut frames at $I2 the set. "The Burning of the Papal Bull," and " The Nailing of Luther's Thesis to the Church-Door " have called oit all his strength, and form true specimens of his great creative art. T'he first of these works reveals the Reformer in his conventual garb committing the parchment to the flames, surrounded by an excited company of people; while the second reveals the Thesis on the wall, the cause of equal astonishment, while Luther appears passing away from the church-door, casting a furtive glance to discover the effect which had been produced on the populace. But ho description will suffice.- The Lutheran. LUCY ASHLEY'S CHOICE; OR, CHRIST or the World! Which?     I6mo     .    .            60 c By its purity of doctrine, simplicity of style and warmth of Christian sympathy, this little volume is admirably adapted as an encouragement to give imnmediate exercise to the promptings of Christian love in the new. torn soul, and a constantly widening sphere to its maturer development. The Rew'ster,   MUHLENBERG.-  EVANGELICAL SISTER. HOODS. In Two Letters to a Friend. Edited by Rev. W. A. MUHLENBERG, D.D. Square i8mo,     59 a ges.  Cloth, gilt,  .      . 75 c : paper,  5oc This subject, now agitating the minds of a number of Churcn people, has induced the Dublishe r to issue a new edition of Dr. Muhlenberg's well- known work. In it will be found many valuable suggestions and hints to those interested in this departmnent -of Christian education. Protestazt Churchman. I WOULD NOT LIVE ALWAY.--EVANGEL ized by its Author, with the Story of the Hymn. and a Brief Account of St. Johnland. Large square cloth, 28 pages                                            $r oo Dr., Muhlenberg's beautiful hymn has been well-known in the Church for so long a tine, that this evangelized version of it, written in the author's latter days, will be received with much favor by those who have read and listened to the original.--Church aournal. --   -    THE     TRUE   MARY. -    BEING   MIRS. BROWN- ing's Poem, "The     Virgin Mary to the Child Jesus," with Comments and Notes. Edited by REV. W. A. MUHLEN- BERG, D.D. 8vo, cloth, red edges, 45 pages      ,    go c ERRY.-LIFE LESSONS FROM THE BOOK OF Proverbs.  By Rev. WILLIAM STEVENS PERRY, ).D.        12mo, cloth   ..** $'                                       75 His language is singularly direct and simple, adapted to produce a lively impression on the mass of readers, and wholly tree from the starch of professional formality.  The tone of the volume is that of earnest con- viction and pathetic appeal, and often rises to the character of grave and powerful eloquence.- The Tribune. Their language is terse, vigorous,, and to the point, and they are written in a style that can hardly fail to attract the attention of the thinking youth of the country, to the wonderful teaching of the Book of Inspira. tion.-Evening Post.  -_ PICTURES FOR THE NURSERY.-AR arranged like the " Silent Comforter," with a  Handsome Illus, tration on each page     .   .    .    .   .    .   $1 or: A     novel and attradtive contrivance for children. It is intended to hang on the wall, so that each of its pages may, inl turn, be exposed to view. The print is large and clear, and will materially aid beginners in learning to read.--The Register. We      are pleased to  see this one, devoted to our  young folks, a   fitting supplement to the Texts and Hymns that have been published for older people.-The Churchman. pRAYER AND PRECEPT.-3I PAGES, CON taining a Prayer with Texts for each day in the month. Made so as to hang on the wall, having but one page al a time ex- posed to view      .      .   .    .   .    .    .   .    . 7 c  Piblications of T. Whittaee.                    7 ROTESTANT EPISCOPAL ALMANAC and Directory                                       25 . ..  Contains a parish, and also an alphabetical list. The former is divided into dioceses, arranged in alphabetical order, in which the name of the clergy, the church in which they officiate, post- office address, diocesan officers and diocesan statistics, are accurately given. In the latter, the name of each clergyman and the post-office address are stated. The city addresses of the clergy residing in the larger cities are also given. In addition to the useful information contained in the Almanac, will be found a list of the clergy of Canada, with their P. 0. address. Published yearly. QUESTION BOOKS.-THE CHILD'S ILLtJS- trated Scripture Question-Book, containing forty-five Les- sons on   the Gospel. l8mo, boards                 20 c THE YOUTH'S QUESTION-BOOK                IN TIHE New Testament             ), e                       20 C UNNY DAYS ABROAD; OR, THE OLD World Seen with Young Eyes. With Sixteen Illustrations of Famous Places. Ismo, cloth, 262 pages   .   .      $I 50 A Diary of Travel in Europe, pleasantly written, and so full of interest- ing incidents, allusion, and historical information, that the writer may well challenge attention. Pretty pictures of famous places and things- being illustrations of noteworthy monuments-and thoughtful reflections adorn these modest, but really instructive pages.-New York Observer. For travelers who intend to pass tlhe summer vacation in visiting the same scenes, there could hardly be a more agreeable companion in the shape of a book than this attractive volume; while to those who, perhaps more wisely, stay at home, it brings the chief enticements of a European holiday before their eyes, without the drawback of sea-sickness, dusty roads, and indifferent fare.--The Tribune, N. Y. MITH.-THE BISHOP AND NANNETTE. By Mrs. F. BURGE SMITH. I2mo, cloth       .    .      .    $  50 This story met with quite a warm reception in the columns of the Church- man, and its publication in book form is a valuable addition to our Sun- day-school libraries. SHINN. -LESSONS ON THE COLLECTS, EPIST- les and Gospels for the Ecclesiastical Year. By the Rev. GEORGE W. SHINN. 16mo, boards .        .   .    .   30 c Mr. Shinn was awarded the cash prize. offered by the Missionary Committee.of the Diocese of Virginia for the best manuscript question- book. His was selected from .a number as most worthy of the award. Special reduced rates to Sunday-schools ordering quantities.   Publictions of 21. Ifdittakler. TRACTS. A WORD TO MOTHERS. On card 3  LEAN HARD. On card  OFFERTORY (THE). A LOST          ACT OF WORSHIP. By Rev. HUGH MILLER THOMPSON                     * PRAYER AND PRAISE FOR PASSION'WEEK. By Rev. Dr. MUHLENBERG'       .   ..                         . IO C WHAT DOES IT MATTER? A FEW WORDS ABOUT Religion and Science WORDS OF COMFORT AND CONSOLATION'                   .     Ioc  SW   ELDON.- UNITY IN VARIETY. A SERIES OF Arguments based on the Divine Workmanship in our Planet, the Constitution of the Human Mind, and the In- spired History of Religion. By GEORGE WARBURTON WELDON, M.A., Trinity College, Cambridge. I6mo, cloth, 230 pages, $I 50 This work is an able plea for the broadest Christian brotherhood and charity. It exhibits true Christian unity. Not in a forced external uni- formity'of faith and worship, but in a spontaneous approximation of differ- ent lines of thought and feeling developed by individual freedom in allI branches of the Church.- Washington Chronicle. It is the result of careful study, of deep and earnest thought, and of sound judgment. There is a vigor in the style, whi(,h, in these times, when exquisite taste and namby-pamby utterances are thought to be alone suited to ears polite, is refreshing and inspiring.-BEpiscopalian.  ESLEY.-SACRED POETRY SELECTED FROM WT   the Works of Rev. CHARLES WESLEY, of Christ Church, Oxford.    Edited by a Member of the Protestant Epis- copal Church. I2mo, cloth, 709 pages,     .    6   .   $2 oo "Perhaps no poems have ever been so devoutly committed to memory as these, nor so often quoted on a death-bed." These publications are for sale by booksellers generally. Any of them will be sent by mail, post-paid, on receipt of retail price.  M  We     have always on hand a large assortment of Bibles,, Prayer-Books, Hymnals, Pari.2. Library Books, Sunday-School Requisites, Christmas and Easter Carols, Tracts, Chromos, etc., etc. T. WHIITTAKER, 2 BIBLE HOUSE, NEW  YORK.      
         
       
   
