
    ----CITATION----
        McAlpine, Emily Eliza Jours.. Doings in Maryland, or Matilda Douglas .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC7139
    ----FULL TEXT----
         
      
         
            Doings in Maryland, or Matilda Douglas 
            
               DOINGS IN MARYAND,  MATILDA DOUGLAS.   DOINGS IN   MARYAND, OR  MATILDA  DOUGLAS.  'TRUTH IS STRANGER THAN FICTION."  J. B. LIPPINCOTT & CO. 1871.   Entered according to Act of Congress, in the year 1871, by J. B. LIPPINCOTT & CO., In the Office of the Librarian of Congress at Washington.    A P REFACE THAT IS NOT A PREFACE. A PREFACE, I believe, by common consent is voted a useless appendage; in lieu of one, therefore, I shall simply forestall the carping of a would-be critic by asking the reader to excuse the transfer and anachronism which place Allston, the great American artist, in Maryland instead of South Carolina, which was, as all the world knows, his native State. Neither has the biographical history of that distinguished man been strictly followed in these pages, because such delineation is not considered necessary in a work of imagination. No straining after literary distinction has been at- tempted in this simple story; and should the perusal of it help to sustain one fainting heart, and establish such in the path of virtue, the writer will feel that it has not been written in vain.   I I i:   CONTENTS. PAGE CHAPTER I.     .  .  . .  .  .   .13 CHAPTER II. ..  .   .  . ..       17 CHAPTER III.--The Poultry Doctor . . .    20 CHAPTER IV.-The County School Teacher . .   23 CHAPTER V.-Examination . .  .  .  ..    26 CHAPTER VI.-Mattie . . .  .  .  .   . 80 CHAPTER VII.- Malice .. .  .  ..     . 34 CHAPTER VIII.-Trouble . .  .  .  . .   39 CHAPTER IX.-More Trouble. . .  .  . .  .42 CHaPTER X.-Bill Bothermenot ..         47 CHAPTER XI.-Snowstorm . .  .  .  .1.  CHAPTER XII.-Death .  .. .   .68 CHAPTER XTTI. .  . .  .  .  .  . .  .62 CHAPTER XIV.-Charity . .  .  . .  .  .  67 CHAPTER XV.-The Kelsoes . . .         70 CHAPTER XVI.- The Kelsoes-continued ..     " CHAPTER X VL1.-"Trouble Loves a Train."   . 83 CHAPTER XVlII.-A New Acquaintance . .  .  87 CHAPiTER XIX.-Cogitation and Dreaming . .   94 CHAPTER XX.-The Gilts .  .   .  .  .   98 (ix)   x          . CONTENTS. PAGE CHAPTER XXI.-Change   .  .  .  .  .  .  . 105 CHAPTER XXII.-Hugh Haggis      .  .  .  . 112 CHAPTER XXTT.-Journey   .  .  .  .    . 120 CHAPTER XXIV.-Dr. Donkur  .  .  .  .  .  .125 CHAPTER XXV.-Schools        . . . . . . . 131 CHAPTER XXVI.-Mary Brown  .  .  .  .  .  . 136 CHAPTER XX V ll.-A Secret Enemy . .  .  .  .140 CHAPTER XXVIII.-Promotion  .  .  .  .    144 CHAPTER XXIX.-Mr. Slytickle wants a Present  . .150 CHAPTER XXX.-The Pleasure Excursion . .    . 153 CHAPTER XXXI.-The Star-Chamber Committee  .  . 158 CHAPTER XXXTT.-Rev. John McGilhooter  .  .  .161 CHAPTER XXXITT.-Mr. Thomas Abettor .  .  .  .166 CHAPTER XXXTV.-Letters .  .    .  .  .  . 1" CHAPTER XXXV.-An Examination  .  .  .  .  . 175 CHAPTER XXXVI.-More Letters.  .  .  .  .  .181 CHAPTER XXVII.-Secret Conclave-Star-Chamber Com- mittee .  .  .  .  .  .  . .  .  . 186 CHAPTmER XXX V 111.-Proposal . .  .  .  .  . 193 CHAPTER XXXTX.-The Visit  .  .  .  .  .  197 CHAPTER XL.-Vote of Censure .  .  .  .  .  . 203 CHAPT;ER XLI.-Triumph  .  .    .  .  .  .208 CHAPTER XLII.-The Congress of Asses . .  .  . 213 CHAPTER XLIIL-Latin   .   . .   .   .  . 219 CHAPTER XLIV.-Latin and Love  .  .  .  .  . 222  CHAPTER XLV.-Surprise  .   ..    .  .  . 228 CHAPTER XLVI.-Deceit  .  .  .  .  .  .  .235 CHAPTER XLVII.-Discovery   .   .  .  . . 239   CONLNTENTS. PAGE 'CHAPTER XLVIII.-News           243 CHAPTER XLIX.--Refusal          247 CHAPTER L.-Pay-Day .     .     250 CHAPTER LI.-A Visit ......255 CHAPTER LII.--Surprise .        . 258 CHAPTER LIV.-Recovery ....        270 CHAPTER LV.-A Wedding .         . 74 CHAPTER LVI.-Authors and Critics .  . .  "  ....2" CHAPTER LVII.-Mattie an Author . .  . 280 CHAPTER LVIII.-Death .          284 CHAPTER LIX.-Remorse .    .  .  286 CHAPTER LX.-The Artist .  . .   .. 291 CHAPTER LXI.-Dost thou Remember? .   .295 CHAPTER LXII. .    . .  ..      299 i              - .  . .  . .....299 CHAPTER LXIII.-Duplicity. . .     . 06 CHAPTER LXI V.-Farewell  .    . .313                ,.1 .-'" ? i,   /   I DOINGS IN MARYAND,  MATILDA DOUGLAS. CHAPTER I. Incomprehensible, Budding immortal, Thrust all amazedly Under life's portal; Born to a destiny Clouded in mystery, Wisdom itself cannot Fathom its history." BRAVE old Maryland, famous alike for the valor of her sons, the beauty of her daughters, and the impetuosity of her brickbats, has also a metropolis, gentle reader, of which slie has no cause to be ashamed. Some miles northeast of this beautiful and rapidly extending mart, and in violent contrast with its majestic buildings, stands a dilapidated log hut. A little clearing or farm surrounds the dwelling, and contiguous; though extraneous to the primitive home- stead, is an extensive woodland. The uncouth establish- ment is small; but the tale of sadness its aspect tells is large enough. Cattle, field, and fence, to the most cursory observer, give startling evidence of neglect and wrong. It is winter, bitter, biting winter, and the scanty woodpile at the door   "      DOINGS 1   i MAR Y A ND, (being, indeed, but little more than a brush-heap), with its broken axe, and inadequate pretensions to warmth and comfort, looks like some associations gotten up ostensi- bly for the relief of the poor. The jaunty smoke, born of twigs and rubbish, issuing from the tumble-down chimney, poises itself for an instant, as if to take a view of the surrounding evidences of bleak poverty; but it does not linger as though unwilling to leave the place in its unsolaced sadness, or hover over, cover- ing with the mantle of charity what it cannot redeem; it curls (though not its lip) its entire body, and shifts, and twists, and flirts away, scorning even to smoke in such society. Thus the heartless worldling just arisen from the ash-heap, in the flush of new-born greatness, despising parentage and early association, curls the contemptuous lip, and denies to each antecedent a friendly recognition. A horse stalks yonder in a place once intended for an orchard; the fence is now broken and gone, and the nei gh- boring swine, with the implements nature gave them, have plowed the soil and grubbed up the roots of the trees. Like many a grave of hope look the deep excavations made by their relentless snouts. Of the few that remain, the pendant branches are greedily gnawed by the famish- ing cattle; and should a tiny twig for an instant droop its fragile form within reach of their ravenous jaws, it is in- stantly (not spiritualized, however, but) rematerialized by those needy ghosts that in hungered unrest roam over the premises. The hen, the only one left, is seeking refuge firom the piercing blast on the sunny side of a gooseberry-bush, and pressing alternately to her feathery breast, for warmth, her freezing feet. The development of heat in Biddy's system is rather deficient just now, but little crop being in the craw.   4      OR MATILDA DOUGLAS.        15 Chanticleer stands faithfully, though sullenly, by her side; he no longer crows defiance, but surveys surrounding desolation with such stoical austerity, that the child Matilda, that would be playful only for the sob in her throat, calls him MA[RIuS. ' I say, neighbor, that thare cow must be a tarnel green- horn if she gives them folks any milk with the fodder she gits," said a passing countryman to his fellow-traveler. But Brindle is an amiable animal, and submissive to those creatures who, though differing from herself in the scale of being, are nevertheless suffering the like privations, and she gives them all the nourishment she can manufacture from the meager material placed at her disposal. "It grieves me to offer you such a pitiful handful," said the little Matilda, as she dispensed to the cow her morning meal; " but don't get out of patience, good Brinny; the Lord will send the sweet young grass again, by-and-by, and then you shall have plenty to eat, and you will give me plenty of milk to make nice custard for my poor sick mother, will you not, Brinnyv?"  And the child patted the shaggy sides of the shivering, starved-out animal, and peered coaxingly into her eyes as if to conciliate the brute and assure her own anxious little heart that " dear old Brinny," as she pettingly called the creature, was not angry because of her wretched breakfast.  Child as the speaker was, she felt how extremely dependent her family were upon the sustenance which they derived from the cow, now the only one they possessed. Poor little Mattie! In tracing her history we shall find this was not the only brute she had to conciliate in her progress through life. The family thus situated consisted of three persons,-a father, a mother, and the little girl alluded to, daughter to both, and an only child.   16      DOINGS IN MARYAND, A father I Good gracious!-what a predicament for a man to place his family in! the reader may well exclaim. We reply, Alas! yes; and such a man, too I "With the talents of an angel a man may be a fool," says the poet; and certainly this man proved the truth of the assertion, for he indeed mistook life's great errand "in a supreme point." Blest by nature with a high order of intellect, by friends with a superior education, by fortune with an ex- alted social position and handsome patrimony, he sacrificed all these advantages and more for the fatal pleasures, worse than death, that are found in the destroying cup,-filled with the costly juice at first, and very social; but when at last replenished with anything that would produce an oblivion and steep his senses in forgetfulness, very solitary. "Where are now the jovial friends that sported with me in my summer days, and quaffed rich nectar from my brimming bowl, that vowed o'er rosy cups eternal amity to me and mine?" Tthe spider's most attenuated thread, that breaks with every breeze, is cord, is cable, to man's tender tie on worldly friendship." Added to intellect, nature's patent of nobility, streams of the best blood from two nations mingled in this man's burning veins; but what of that? Better their contents had been water, if by being such the fiery influence that blighted his mind and heart would have been quenched, and his helpless family rescued from destitution and death --for death is even now hard upon their track. It is needless to note the progressive stages by which this appalling change in the man came on, or to dwell upon the mortal agony suffered by his ever-faithful, ever-endur- ing wife, who, with a fortitude which deathless love alone could inspire, clung to his fallen fortune, and became with him an exile and a wanderer. No means that a loving heart could devise-and what   OR MATIt7LDA DOUGLAS.  will not love devise to benefit its object!-were left untried to break the denon-woven spell by which he was bound to win him back to himself, to her, and to the society he was so eminently calculated to adorn. But all was over now, the last effort had failed, hope deferred had sickened both soul and body, the stricken wife meekly resigned her cause into the hands of Him who said, "What thou knowest not now thou shalt know hereafter." And with Id many an arrow fixed deeply in her bleeding heart, she had sought this lone solitude to lay her down and die. Oh, man! Oh, woman, woman  Of such parentage of those thus unfortunate in worldly gear and worldly fame, but who were distinguished for noble wealth of mind and heart, Matilda Douglas was descended. CHAPTER    11. "Her daily teachers had been woods and rills, The busy bee, the dewy petal sweet, The silence that is in the starry sky, The rushing tempest 'midst the lonely hills." "MATTIE, my love, I have decided you must go to school. i The best I can do under the circumstances is to send you to the district school. I know the walk is a long and a X lonely one, but you can take a piece with you for your noon's repast, and stay at school until evening; and when the weather is severe you must remain at home. I shall arrange that with the teacher." Mattie was seated by her mother just then, and most happily oblivious to everything save the contents of the book in her hand. At this announcement she looked up F^ 2* i   18      DOINGS IN MARYAND, in bewildered astonishment, and had a boulder from the mountain summit been advancing upon her she could scarcely have evinced more alarm. "Oh, mother," she exclaimed, every nerve in her body quivering with emotion, "do not send me to school-please do not! I will study at home, I will read [she was always reading], I will do anything you wish, only don't send me to school. I cannot go mother, indeed I cannot 1"The big tears that fell like rain, the chest that heaved, and the sobs that choaked her utterance all attested how exceeding averse she was to the proposed arrangement. Mrs. Douglas perfectly understood the nature of her daughter's objections to school, and her own heart bled afresh from wounds those objections probed; but she felt it to be her duty to insist, and when love and duty spoke, they silenced every minor voice which could appeal to the understanding of that noble mother. Mattie as yet had had but little contact with the world beyond her own fireside. The mother's silent, though not the less vigilant, care had sedulously guarded her helpless one from the rude stare her coarse and homely attire was sure to attract, or from the ruder remarks her father's de- grading conduct might elicit, and, indeed, from all those thousand impertinences and wrongs which helpless poverty is ever certain to suffer from coarse and vulgar prosperity; yet the fine instincts of the child, and her characteristic sensibility, caused her to dread some such oppression,- the inheritance of weakness and misfortune,-and she shrank back with trembling dismay to the covert of her own lowly hearth, and to the love that hallowed it. Mat- tie, though unschooled was not untaught; Mrs. Douglas was an educated woman, and her daughter had been her heart-pupil ever since the child's perceptions were capable of earliest cultivation. Alas now the health of the   1?         OR MATILDA DOUGLAS.        19 mother-teacher was completely broken, the least exertion caused her days of prostration, and well she knew the fact that her pilgrimage on earth was fast drawing to a close. How doubly important, then, that the education of the child should rapidly progress  Sorrow had sapped the foundation of the mother's strength, the tide of time bear- ing her upon its bosom was swiftly ebbing on to the great ocean of eternity, Mattie would then be left to meet the world poor and alone. God help her! "If I could but see her educated before I go hence," said the mother, "death would be divested of half its bitterness." And the struggle of her heart in prayer,-the petition she urged with most vehemence and for which she would take no denial, was, "If all else of earthly good be denied me, Thou alone knowest for what purpose, who art all-power- ful to grant, O grant me this one request,--the education of my child i" This life-blood gurgle from the stricken mother's heart was echoed in the courts of heaven, and as faithful, holy prayer ever will be answered, so was this, but how mvs- teriously time alone can develop. "Thy paths are in the sea, O God!"   20      DOINGS IN MARYAND, CHAPTER III. THE POULTRY DOCTOR. "But now our quacks are gamesters, and they play With craft and skill to ruin and betray." MRS. FLAX is in great distress, her young poultry are infected with an unknown disease, many have died, more are dying. The anxious woman has exhausted the cata- logue of cures for sick chickens possessed by herself and henwife friends for miles around, and yet the pestilence raoes with unabated violence. The dinner-horn has been blown, and Mrs. Flax has been personally summoned to attend the dishing of the pot-apple-pie; but still she lingers in the poultry-yard, still administers the ineffica- cious dose, still frets and worries with a watery eye, and still the Shanghais gape and stagger and die. A carryall, drawn by a horse, or rather a mare, limping and evidently much lamed, advances up the lane; beast and man (excuse the precedence) halt in a line with Mrs. Flax. "Want any clocks repaired to-day, ma'am?"-from a voice in the wagon. Mrs. Flax in surly mood replies, "Haven't got any clocks to want repairs." "Won't you buy one, then, ma'am?-have some fine ones; sell 'em cheap." "I am not able to buy clocks or anything else, and never expect to be; luck is agin me. Here are all my beautiful flocks of chickens and turkeys that I expected to bring   OR MA TILDA   DO UGLAS.     21 something worth while a-dying off 'most as fast as I can count 'em!--It is too bad, and work as hard as I do!" sobbed the overburdened Mrs. Flax. "Well, ma'arn, there is no occasion for any more of them to die," soothingly said the peddler, " for I am provided with a medicine that will cure all the ills a winged and feathered animal is heir to. I made it myself, ma'am, and I am on nay way to Washington to get a patent for it. I sell it everywhere, and the reason you have not heard on it is because I have never been in this part of the country before. Will you have a box, ma'am?" "How much do you ask for one?" inquired the troubled mourner of departed poultry. "Only a dollar, ma'am, and very cheap at that when you consider what a great cure it is." "But s'pose it don't cure at all, then there will be another dollar thrown away " grumbled the pennywise matron. We can easily manage that, ma'am, if you are agreed,- I will stay here for a few days and give the medicine my- self," said the cute clock-tinker, with an eye to food and rest for his sore-footed animal, "and if in the mean time the medicine does no good, I will not charge you a cent! Now, that is fair; is it not, ma'am?" "Well, I don't know but that it is. Come to the house anyhow, and talk to my husband about it," said the hen- wife, rejoiced at even a ray of hope, provided it was a cheap ray, for her perishing brood. For weeks past the weather had been both unpleasant and unhealthy. St. Swithin seems to have influenced more than his share of days this year, and drizzle has succeeded to shower, and shower to drizzle, until the earth ^ is saturated with moisture, and everything upon the earth enveloped in damp and noisome exhalations. The evil resulting from this condition of atmosphere is apparent upon both animal and vegetable life. The mildewing   22      DOILNLGS IN IMARYAArD,          a blight affects destructively flowers, fruits, and grain.  The sluggish blood creeps slowly through the veins, the bane- ful chill crawls deadly over the body like some huge, foul- some caterpillar drags its length along, and in its silent, sly, and slimy progress dulls the ear, dims the eye, and spreads itself upon theilivid lips. But now the Wind, oft a capricious tyrant (as the harmonious Thomson sings), again has changed his bleak location and his sullen mood; now relenting deigns to dry the tears of earth his cruelty occasioned. He removes from. her saddened face the in- cumbent veil of clouds his jealousy had interposed to obscure the varied charms of all-bearing mother from the ardent gaze of her lover-husband-the great and glorious Sun. The sun, happy again to meet in fond em- brace his sorrowing spouse, with peevish ire accuses not of coquetry or wanton dalliance with the sporting winds, but richly spreads around his golden mantle of charity and love. With renovating smile he wakes anew the stagnant powers of latent life, and calls into active use the best and purest feelings of the heart. With pene- trating glance he absorbs the unwholesome damp, expands and paints with loveliest hues earth's teeming produce. The northeast blast, humid and sickly, is replaced by genial and spicy breezes of the " effusive South." The full-blown spring has ripened into luscious summer; the laughing landscape, the field, the garden, and the tuneful grove, all offer adoration sweet in perfume and in song. The joyous bleating from a thousand hills finds glad re- sponse in the exulting bosom of earth's noblest sons. "Man supreme walks anmid glad creation, musing praise, and looking lively gratitude." Not so poor, groveling Mrs. Flax, who, although her 1 ploomy people," too, have caught the healing breeze and ceased to die, acknowledges no kind Providence to thank and bless: she only blesses Mr. Snipe and his patent sawdust pills.  VR A MATILDA DOUGLAS.       2 3 CHAPTER    IV. THE COUNTY SCHOOL TEACHER. "For craft once known, Does teach fools wit; leaves the deceiver more." MR. SNIPE, the poultry doctor, is seated on a step of the woodbine-covered porch ; Mrs. Flax is sitting on the porch bench, and as is her custom when not otherwise employed, busily knitting. Says Mr. Snipe, "I am  much pleased with this part of the country. I have often heard of the hospitality of the South, but never before had the happiness to partake of it. I should like to stay here among such kind-hearted people; but as I am not able to do hard work, what could I get to do?"  Mrs. Flax is flattered by this adroit allusion to her kind- ness of heart, and she replies, "Well, you are the best hand among the poultry that I  ever saw in my life. I would be glad, too, if you could stay hereabouts." Mr. Snipe continued, "I  heard your husband say at dinner to-day, that the School Committee meet to-morrow to consider the subject of education and to elect a teacher. Will you mention me to him in that connection?," "Yes, I  will," promptly responded Mrs. Flax. "I am glad you thought of it; hand me yonder sun-bonnet and I will go to my husband at once." Thus-equipped, and with the knitting still in progress, Mrs. Flax wends her way to the field in which  ir. Flax is employed.   24      DOINGS IN MARYAND, "Husband, come and rest awhile under the shade of the tree; I have something considerable to say to vou." "I should think it must be something very considerable, that you could not wait until I came home," said Mr. Flax, seating himself upon the grass, and wiping from his sun- burnt brow the flowing perspiration. She commenced, "Well, Mr. Snipe---" "Ah I I guessed there was a Snipe's bill in the mud," interrupted Mr. Flax, with a derisive laugh. "Well, husband, he wishes you to present his name to- morrow to the committee as an applicant for the district school." "W-h-e-w 1" whistled Mr. Flax. "What next? doctor, teacher,--I suppose preacher next I What is it that a uni- versal Yankee can't do?" "But, husband, he is so useful amonTg the poultry, and so obliging, that really I wish he could be kept in the neighborhood. He hunts the woods for the turkey-nests, and feeds the setting hens; he drives the cows up to be milked, and brings me pails of water from the spring; yes- terdav, he even emptied the slops for me; indeed, he is as useful about the house as a cooking-stove. I will willingly give him his board for his help." "Remember you have his horse to board also," said the husband. "I know, but then he said he would milk the cows in cold weather, and split the wood. Indeed, husband, I wish we could manage to keep him about us. You know you said when you got the mortgage that is on our place paid off you would let me have help; but I am afraid I shall be worked to death before it comes." Mrs. Flax was instantly again in one of her fretful moods. "I don't think you work any harder now than you did in your native Pennsylvania," said Mr. Flax, a little   OR MATILDA DOUGLAS.        25 piqued, as a man is sure to be who hears his wife com- plain. "It is not customary for rich men's wives to work in Maryland, though," replied the wife. "IlBut I am not rich," said the husband. ",You will be when you get the place cleared of the encumbrance your uncle left- upon it; and I am sure I do all I can to help the cause; I make as much from my butter and poultry as I can. Oh, yes; that reminds me. S'pose the poultry were to get sick again, what would I do without Mr. Snipe? He will not sell the receipt for the poultry pills for anything I can offer him." "As to that," replied Mr. Flax, "I believe the change in the weather had more to do in improving the health of the poultry than his pills; but since you are so anxious to retain Mr. Snipe's services, I have no objection. We have no children to send to school, and if those who have do not object, I need not. So to please you, wife, I will mention him to the School Committee; but I shall not recommend him,--I warn you of that fact!" On the day following this conversation between Mr. Flax and his thrifty wife, the promised nomination was made, Mr. Flax remarking, however, that he knew nothing of the man's abilities, either as a scholar or teacher, " but the committee," he said, " could examine him and judge for themselves. Of one thing I would speak positively, Mr. Snipe could be obtained cheap." The School Committee here adverted to consisted of three persons,-Mr. Flax, Mr. Hedge, and Mr. Flum, the last named being President of the School Board and Chair- man of the Examining Committee. We regret, however, that we are compelled to admit those positions of honor and responsibility were not bestowed upon the recipient ia consequence of any superior intelligence or erudition to 3   26      DOINGS IN MARYAND, which he could lay claim, but simply in consideration of broad lands whichthe possessed. He was the largest tax- payer in the neighborhood. A rule of the board required that all business pertain- ing to the schools should be held under advisement a week before receiving definite action; consequently, that day week was appointed for the examination of Mr. Snipe and other applicants, should such present themselves. CHAPTER V. EXAMNATION. "But as a dog that turns the spit, Bestirs himself, and plies his feet To climb the wheel, but all in vain, His own weight brings him down again, And still he's in the self-same place Where at his setting out he was." AT the appointed time Mr. Snipe presented himself to the committee, and, no other applicants appearing, Mr. Flumn proceeded with the examination. "What do you propose to teach, sir?" inquired the examiner. "I can try a hand at 'most anything,"' replied the would- be teacher. "Do you understand English grammar?" "I have forgot some now, but when I,left school I could say 'most all through the book." "Well, sir, what is a monosyllable?" "I never heard of it before, sir. "What, then, is a dip-thong?'" The teacher began to scratch his head. "Well, a thong   4 ^OR MATILDA DOUGLAS.             27 is a leather strap, and I suppose a dip-thong is a thong that has been dipped in something." "Oh, no, sir, you are quite mistaken; it is not leather at all, or anything that has been dipped either in grease or tar. It is something in grammar!" "Well, well, the fact is my mind has been so taken up with affairs of greater importance, such as the prepara- tion of hen-pills and the like, that I have suffered those little matters to escape me; but when I get into their neighborhood again I can soon catch 'em up." "Are you expert in figures?" "I am, indeed, sir. I can make figures as fast as any "A man you ever saw." "What, then, is ratio?" "It is every man's share of the provender." "Oh, no, you mean rations; but I mean the ratio of numbers." "Well, it is every man's share of the numbers, then " said the candidate, quite confidently. Mr. Flum glanced furtively at a paper which he held in his hand, but appeared unable to find the place, and as he could not therefore contest the question he gave the appli- cant the benefit of the doubt. "How would you teach spelling?" "Spelling cannot be tallght, sir; it is a natural talent. Who do you suppose taught Johnson and Webster to spell all the great hard words in their dictionaries?", This was a  new idea to Mr. Flum, but as the parties could not be named who had taught Johnson and Web- ster to spell, he gave up that point also. "What system do you follow -in teaching writing?" "No genius ever wrote well, sir,"-quite dictatorially,- consequently, if you should attempt to teach a boy, and he had genius in him, the divine 'essence might be ex-   J 28      DOINGS IN MARYAND, pelled, dripped off at the end of the pen and drowned in the ink. Plenty of genius has been killed by ink and too much teaching. The man who would attempt to teach writing ought to be indicted by a grand julIy as a public nuisance." "You certainly have some very original ideas about teach- ing," said the examiner. "You certainly are in advance of the age, at least you are in advance of this part of the coun- try. I suppose you are from the place where most of the new- fangled doctrines originate,-a regular Down-Easter, eh?" "Y-e-a-s, from towards the place where day breaks and sun rises," said Mr. Snipe in a manner that he thought would be very significant; but the insinuation was all lost upon Mr. Flum. "Born anywhere about Boston Common?" "No, not exactly on the Common; but all along the shore, from Nantucket to Cape Cod, as the Indian said." "s Speaking about that Boston Common, I wonder you calculating Yankees can spare so much waste ground,-in your pri ncipal city, too. For my part, I think it had better be plowed up and planted in potatoes than kept there for demagogues and fanatics to congregate idlers and make long harangues about women's rights and men's wrongs I Why, sir, women have all the rights they have any right to; and as for men, if they all had their rights, the Lord help 'em, not many would be left to walk the earth without the iron ornaments of cuffs and collars, balls and chains. But, sir, as I always say, our country is a great mixture, and some of the changes do not im- prove the stock either; though, to tell the truth, I don't blame all creation for coming here, for, if I was not here before, I would come myself,"---growing animated,- "yes, sir, if I had been born a foreigner to myself, be- fore I would have lived with savages, alligators, lions, and tigers, I would have come to this glorious land of   X:lli       OR MATILDA  DOUGLAS.       29 civil and religious liberty, this land of voting and churches, this land of preaching and gold-digging, where every man can sit under his own fig-tree and knock down chincapins, none daring to make him afraid. Yes, sir, I repeat it, I would have come, and at the worst growed cat-tail swamps for a living I And now, sir, I wish to know, if you are employed by us to teach our children, if you will teach them any new-fangled doctrines of the present age?" "Certainly not, sir, if lyou do not wish it." "I can tell you, sir, we do not wish it; for my part, I I would hunt the fellow down with dogs who would attempt to poison the minds of my children with any of the fanati- cal, dogmatical, moonstruck monstrosities of the present steam-puffing, gas-blowing, lightning-talking age. I am perfectly satisfied with the world as I found it, only I would take the thunder storms out of harvest-time and put them in the winter, when there is no grain standing out to spoil; and I would have the ice-cutting in the warm weatheren weather, could not get our fingers frost-bitten. Gentlemen of the committee, I wish a few words of con- versation with you in the next room," said the Chair, leading the way with a majestic air. The Chair returned in a few moments, and informed Mr. Snipe that the committee had decided to make him the following offer: "We will employ you for the next session of five months, for which we will give you twenty-five dollars and your board, if, on rainy days, you will assist me in looking over my accounts; will teach Mr. Hedge's white hound boy, Tomn, of evenings; and will help Mrs. Flax with her poultry." "Speaking of the poultry reminds me of my mare," said Mr. Snipe. "Will you find her in food also?" "Your mare has not laid before the committee yet," said the Chair; "but when she does, we will come and set."   30       DOINGS IN MARYANrD, CHAPTER VI. MATTIE. "The harvest treasures all, Now gathered in beyond the rage of storms, Sure to the swain; the circling fence shut up, And instant winter's utmost rage defied; While loose to festive joy, the country round Laughs with the loud sincerity of mirth, Shook to the winds their cares." THE harvest-home has been joyously celebrated; the modest green of matronly summer has deepened into the gorgeous tints of rich and reveling autumn; the district school has been in session some weeks. Mr. Snipe is fully inaugurated teacher, or rather a hearer of lessons; he does not even listen, for a good listener is an analyzer. Mr. Snipe does not analyze, comment, or demonstrate, he only hears; but then he does it so " cheap," you know. Mrs. Douglas, with feeble and tottering step, presents herself at the school, leading by the hand the timid and reluctant Mattie, who already feels that she has entered a howling witlerness.  The little preliminary business necessary for the admission of the new pupil is soon transacted, and the mother retires, leaving her sad child alone in the midst of a crowd. "How poor her clothes are!" whisper the girls. "How ugly she is!" whisper the boys. "Who is she, anyhow?" ask both boys and girls. No one knows; yes, one does: "She lives in the old field-house"!(as their place is con- temptuously called). After this announcement, boys and girls sheer off to a greater distance; no one wishes to    associate with the people who live in the old field-house; their best repute is poverty and dissipation. Mattie is more alone than ever. When the noon recess arrived, with her little basket of lunch, consisting of a boiled egg and a slice of bread, Mattie retired to the shade of an adjacent tree, whose wide- spread arms of umbrageous foliage invited to shelter and repose. When the simple repast was finished, she took from her basket a book, which she had provided for the occasion, and, as usual when reading, was soon absorbed in the subject, and lost to every unpleasant reflection of her own. So completely was she engrossed on this occasion that, when the bell rang for the resumption of school duties, its sound fell upon her ear unnoticed, mingled with the sweet ivoices that filled the richly-laden air,-the distant waterfall, the humming of bees, the caroling of birds, the gentle sighing of the breeze. A special messenger had to be sent to summon the loiterer to the ranks. Mr. Snipe had been duly informed of the manner in which the new pupil was employed,-the children said,-sitting all the time under the tree reading, never looking from her book nor noticing any one. He was aware of the fact that in the South, especially in country places, the education of poor children was much neglected, and he was surprised to find that Mattie could read at all, and quite incredulous as to her ability to become absorbed in a subject however trifling; he therefore considered the little affair a simple flourish of affectation; the child, a would-be impostor, a mere make- believe, like himself. Mr. Snipe had but one element of strength in his character, and that element was cunning. Here we might spend time, a long time, upon a lengthy analyzation of minds of a certain constitution, minds whose caliber the aforementioned word, with its concomitants of   32      DOIN'GS IN MARYAND, hatred and revenge, will describe, and then not do justice -to either the minds or the descriptive word. Many persons have made fortunes, and their only stock in trade was that one word. I know an author, by courtesy so called, who has made a hundred thousand dollars, and whose whole mental resource was that one word. It is a great word; no lexicographer has done justice to it. Cunning, I take off my hat to you I Mr. Snipe had cunning; how I envy you your possession, Mr. Snipe 1 When Mattie entered the schoolrroom in answer to the special summons, the teacher, with satire in voice and manner, remarked, "Well, Miss Douglas, since you are such a bookworm as to be buried alive in one, will you favor us with a specimen of your style of reading?" "Yes, sir," said the child, ingenuously. He presented a school-reader, and designating an extract from a poem, commanded her to stand up and read. Mattie had never in her life read in the presence of anly one ex- cept her father and mother; this public reading, then, was a severe ordeal for the first day at school; but she instantly obeyed. The eyes of all present were now fixed upon the little, ugly, ill-clad girl of the old field-house, and silence for once in that Pandemonium "reigned supreme." The poem was new to the reader, but her fine appreciative powers soon caught the sentiment, and her soul read while her lips pronounced the words. As she proceeded, the silence grew more intense, even Mr. Snipe's countenance relaxed in some measure from its sinister expression, when, unfortunately, she encountered a word with which she was not familiar. The pupil stopped abruptly, and raising her eyes for the first time to the teacher, asked him for the meaning of the word, saying her mother did not permit her to pass a word without understanding its meaning. Mr, Snipe was surprised into confusion, and with both         OR MATILDA DOUGLAS.        33  color and choler replied that he had no dictionary at hand. The child observed his too palpable embarrassment, and quickly added with the most perfect innocence, "Oh, never mind, sir, I will take it to my mother." And drawing from her pocket a pencil, proceeded to write down the word. "You may take your seat," said the offended pedagogue; "that will do for to-day." When Mattie returned home in the evening, she re- counted to her mother the incidents of the day, and espe- cially that of the reading-lesson, with its abrupt termina- tion,-dwelling enthusiastically upon the beauties of the poem, and regretting the interruption which the unknown word had occasioned. ' Mrs. Douglas was much surprised at what she heard, but was careful not to evince her aston- ishment in a manner that would compromise the dignity of the teacher. Calling for the unlucky word, the mother- teacher went on with the explanation, giving the root and prefix, the meaning of each when disconnected, then the various applications of which the compound word was capable, and its synonyms.   34      DOINGS IN MARYAND, CHAPTER     VII. MALICE. "He hath tied Sharp-tooth'd unkindness like a vulture here." FROM the era of the reading-lesson, and which, indeed, was Mattie's first day at school, Mr. Snipe conceived a perfect detestation of the child that had so unintentionally exposed his ignorance to the school. Every pupil in the room had observed the perplexity of the teacher; none, however, realized the unpleasantness of the situation so sensibly as himself. The little affair, trifling in itself, was soon forgotten by all except Mr. Snipe; silently, maliciously, he remembered the incidental demolition of his assumned dignity, and he determined to avenge his wounded honor. The unconscious offender was helpless and unprotected,- her father, a reckless inebriate; her lmother, a heart-broken invalid. He determined to crush her out of the school; and he determined knowingly enough, for he was never safe a moment while she was there. At every step in her studies, simple as they were, some elucidative question, indicative of latent genius, would suggest itself to her rich and rapidly developing intellect. She naturally applied to her teacher for a solution, but to him such thoughts were monsters that never could have found room to be born in the little and unphilosophical skull of the ever so cunning peddler and poultry practitioner. As Mr. Snipe determineld, if possible, to banish Mattie from school, so in furtherance of his design he permitted   I        OR MATILDA DOUGLAS.        35 no opportunity to pass unimproved in which he could wound and harass the helpless child, whose feelings he perceived were eminently sensitive and high-strung. If she arose to approach his desk, a thundering, "Keep your seat, Miss Malapert!" sent the little unfortunate crouching back trembling in every limb. Her school com- panions quickly perceived that she was no favorite in high quarters, and a few taking advantage of her prostrate con- dition, heaped upon her an accumulation of insolence and oppression too intolerable to be borne. Others, however, for the credit of humanity, be it spoken, were pained at her distress, and forgot in sympathy for her suffering that she did live in the old field-house, and was poor and plain I and unprotected. Mrs. Douglas observed, with much though silent con- cern, that Mattie returned from school more and more depressed and spiritless on each succeeding day; but as the child made no complaint, the mother prudently for- bore to solicit any, and hoped that time would reconcile the novice to school restraint and restore her wonted cheer- fulness. That mother little suspected what a flood of agony was pent up in that young heart, and how for her sake-for dear mother's sake--it was, and had been long, suppressed. But a climax was approaching. On this particular evening Mattie came home with a face so inflamed and swollen by protracted weeping that the sight of her pitiable condition- must have moved the sympathy of even an uninterested beholder; how, then, were the feelings of her tender and heart-crushed mother wrung with keenest anguish I "Mattie," said the mother, with trembling voice and blanched lip, " what is the trouble? You have been weeping bitterly. I must know the cause." "Oh, mother Il" exclaimed the child, bursting into a   36      DOINGS IN MARYAND, fresh agony of tears, "I do so wish my father was 'a com- mittee!' then Mr. Snipe would not hate me as he does. I cannot tell why, but I know he does not like me, and I have tried to please him, but he spurns me from him like I was a dog; and to-day he said I was equal to four dogs. Oh, I am so miserable I I am so miserable!"And the child's whole being writhed and surged with intensest agony. As intimated before, Mrs. Douglas knew nothing of the indignities of which her daughter had been persistently made the recipient; but the present burst of feeling, and the unmistakable evidence of suffering which accompanied it, forced upon her mind the conviction that a wrong had been perpetrated. It required no Solomon to discern the fact that a feud existed between teacher and pupil, and Mrs. Douglas knew the character of the latter too well not to feel assured that she was not the aggressor. Mute with painful apprehension, with a stifling realization of her helplessness and inability to redress the wrongs of her friendless and unprotected offspring, the mother made no further inquiry, but, drawing the weeping girl upon her lap, pressed her to her own sympathizing bosom, and mingled her tears with those of the sorrowing child, while her lacerated heart cried out with one of old, "Those hold me and mine in derision whom my fathers would not have set with their dogs. Oh, my husband, my husband I what hast thou done?"'. Among the puptils that frequented Mr. Snipe's school was a granddaughter of Mr. Flum, whorn we remember as President of the School Board, and Chairman of the Examining Committee. This child was an orphan daughter of Mr. Flum's deceased son, an only child of an only child, consequently heir of her grandfather's immense property. But, alas! she-was deformed in person, and scarcely bet- ter in mind. Deformed in person, weak in intellect, and   1X2^        OR MATILDA DOUGLAS.        37 ill in health,-partly in consideration of these misfor- tunes and of the fact that she was heiress of large estates, she was indulged in a manner that brought out in bold relief all the native tyranny of her character,--all that domination of an idiotic will that had never been contra- dicted in any of its most absurd caprices. She went to the district school because she would go. Her grandfather wished her to be taught at home, to have a governess, and maintain all the exclusiveness to which her wealth and position entitled her. She defiantly told him she would not be taught at home, shut up in the lonesome house all the time; she would go to school and play with the children; and, she might have added, fight with them, too  Mr. Snipe, with native astuteness, quickly perceived it would be to his advantage to propitiate this child, and he spared no pains to accomplish his purpose. she was never displaced from her position at the head of the class, whether she recited her lesson or not; in short, she was exempted from all the rules that governed the rest of the school. It was the custom in this, as in many other country schools, for the boys to alternate in furnishing the pupils with water, by carrying it round the room once a ses- sion, when those who wished to drink did so, one after the other, and all from the same cup. Among the privi- leges which Miss Flum enjoyed was that of always drink- ing first,--the children said, because her grandfather was a " committee." One spirited boy declared, " when it came to his turn to give out water, he would not wait on Mary Flum first, if her grandfather was a commnittee; he would begin at the beginning, and leave off at the end." He put his threat of daring into execution, and the conse- quence was most disastrous to poor Mattie. Being seated 4  38      -DOINGS IN MARYAND, next the door (it was the most uncomfortable seat in the room), she, of course, received the water first; whereupon Miss Flum bridled up, and, resenting the insult pffered to her in the curtailment of privileges, declared, " she would not drink after such poor trash as Mat Douglas. Mat Douglas was no better than her grandfatheris niggers; and she would ask her grandpa if she was to receive such treatment." At the mention of her grandpa, Mr. Snipe's little baboon forehead became copiously bedewed with cold and clammy perspiration. With excessive bitterness he asked Mattie how she bad the assurance to drink before her betters. Did she suppose, he said, that a lady like Miss Flum would drink after such people as she belonged to?"Now go," he continued, in a loud key, and stamping his foot, " take that cup to the spring, wash it, and bring Miss Flum. a clean drink." Mattie attempted to obey; but she felt as if her heart had suddenly grown to be the size of the water-bucket and had then stood still. It seemed to fill ,her chest, to close her throat, to press upon her lungs like a huge incubus, and suppress her very breathing. She attempted to rise; her head swam, her limbs refused obedience to tier will, and she sank back upon her seat almost a corpse. Happily, a flood of tears came to her relief; and then, her sobs and piteous moans annoying Mr. Snipe, he commanded her to go out into the yard and howl there with her four-dog power, and not disturb the peaceable inmates of the school. And thus the child came by the swollen eyes, the in- flamed cheeks; thus the sobs and convulsive heavings of the breast, the sight of which so pained her tender mother   1 OR MATILDA       DOUGLAS.       39 CHAPTER TROUBLE. "I may not weep-I cannot sigh, A weight is pressing on my breast; A breath breathes on me-witheringly, My tears are dry, my sighs suppressed." MRs. DOUGLAS passed a sleepless night; she debated much with herself as to the course proper to be pursued under circumstances of such new perplexity. Mattie's sun, like her own, appeared everywhere under a cloud. She did not wish it thus to set at school, or, in other words, she did not wish the child to leave school until the preju- dice which evidently existed against her in the mind of the teacher should be removed. Besides, Mattie must be educated. She was not able to send her abroad for that purpose, and Mr. Snipe's school comprised all the educa- tional facilities which the neighborhood -afforded. How small those were Mrs. Douglas never for a moment sus- pected. Back to school, then, Mattie must go, must over- come adverse circumstances by persevering endeavor, must conquer by the omnipotence of will." And thus man reasons and appoints; but alas for human foresight 1 In consequence of her vigils, Mrs. Douglas was ex- tremely feeble in the morning and unable to leave her couch until she had received some nourishment. This Mattie hastened to prepare, and also to attend to other household duties which required immediate care. All being completed, her mother told her to prepare for school, as she had decided upon her return thither, although her    40      DOINGS IN IMARYAND, position there was an unpleasant one. "You know, my love," said the mother, "that besides a preparation for another world I can have no greater object in this than the advancement of your interest: therefore you must consent to be guided by my riper judgment. I wish you to acquire such an education as shall enable you to occupy with ability the situation of teacher. Then you can secure to yourself an honorable maintenance, and the position, if properly filled, will entitle you to respect, and in some measure shield you from the ruder blasts to which a life of meaner labor must expose you.'" Here the countenance of Mrs. Douglas evinced the fact that a more painful thought struggled for utterance, that something pressed upon her mind which she dreaded, but desired, to express. Summoning resolution, she proceeded: "You will have to labor not only for your own support, but for that of your most unfortunate father. Upon you will devolve the exclusive care of him in his old days. It is you that will have to stay his feeble steps and smooth his lonely passage to the tomb. I shall be gone, and only you left to care for him, whom of all beings upon the earth I have cared for most. And oh, my poor child, if de- parted spirits are ever permitted to revisit this weary earth, be assured your mother's will linger near you to nerve -your feeble arm and stay your sinking heart, for well I know the mighty conflicts that must await you. Then go, my love; go, for my sake, and achieve the greatest of all victories-the conquest of yourself. Merge present pleasure in the struggle for future good, and in years to come you will exult in the reflection that you did not per- mit yourself to be overcome of evil, but vanquished evil and its effects by yielding to the dictates of reason and to the promptings of the purest maternal love." Mattie made no reply, but left the presence of her   X!i      OR MATILDA DO UGLAS.       41 mother to give vent to her bursting heart and to make a hasty preparation for school, as it was already late, and she dreaded the censure of Mr. Snipe worse than the ravings of the fiercest storm that ever rocked their weather- beaten cabin ; "for God is in the storm," thought Mattie, "but there is no God in Mr. Snipe." In a short time the child returned equipped for school. Her mother observed traces of tears upon her cheek and deep gloom upon her countenance. She made an effort to cheer the sad and dejected pupil. She charged her with a messageto the the teacher. Invite Mr. Snipe to take tea with me, and request him to appoint the evening when it will suit his convenience to come" (said the mother, hum- b le for the sake of her child); " and place my knitting upon the bed. I am not- able to be about to-day, but I will try and sit up in bed and finish the stockings I have upon the needles, and send them to the store and procure some tea and white sugar, and you shall make the nice biscuit-for which you are such a famous little housewife, and we will manage to set Mr. Snipe quite a comfortable tea. Per- haps when he knows more of our history and character he will be more kindly disposed towards us; at present, of course, he knows nothing of us but from the vulgar gossips of the neighborhood, for I have lived apart from all my neighbors, and made friends of none." Innocent Mrs. Douglas!  She judged others by the purity and magnanimity of her own heart, and little sup- posed or suspected with what a cold slimy swollen frog she was in contact. Napoleon the Great, when at the summit of his glory, might have accepted an invitation from as humble a source; certainly our own great na- tion's honored father would; but never this poor country pedagogue, whose empty brain grew dizzy at the thought of his immense elevation. And, indeed, though the posi- 4*   42      DOINGS IN IARYAND,      , tion entitled him to naught of compensation save the lonely ] five dollars per month, yet socially it was to him an ele- vation, if not in a pecuniary sense. Hitherto, in his pere- '": grinations round the country, it had been his lot to pick cold bones in farmers' kitchens or in his own musty carry- all. But now he is a guest in sumptuous parlors? with ' i lovely ladies of old and noble stock; his feet press soft, : luxurious carpets; his lips silver and the finest glass; ; liveried servants anticipate his wish; rich and costly, dainties, of which his bean-and-pumpkin- soul never  dreamed, pile his plate, for he dines to-day with the full :  and empty Mr. Flum.                   X CHAPTE R    IX. MORE TROUBLE.  "Thou art come to answer A stormy adversary, an inhuman wretch,  Incapable of pity, void and empty'  From every drachm of mercy."   - I \           . X, WHEN Mattie reached school, she found her fears in some ' measure realized; the assembling bell had been rung, and ' her class was then upon the floor, forming for recitation. : She approached Mr. Snipe with an apology for being rather -x late; he waved her away with scornful impatience, and  commanded her to take a position at the foot of the class. ? The command was contrary to every precedent fur- nished by the school, and manifestly unjust, because, as the class was not formed when she entered, she was of course S entitled to her position in it. Mattie promptly obeyed,    OR MATILDA DOUGLAS.        43 though she felt the injustice. She had, by hard labor, and against every obstacle thrown in her way, steadily main- tained her position at the head; she valued her position, and this Mr. Snipe knew: hence the inflicted mortification. The result, however, was not quite equal'to the wish of the amiable man, as the effect of his petty spleen upon the child was less painful than he had hoped and expected to produce. The -same utter desolation of feeling did not prostrate her as on former occasions when the victim of the teacher's tyranny. She had been running; the morning air was fresh and exhilarating, the blood was bounding rapidly through her veins and glowing upon her cheek; she felt less depressed and cowed than usual. The foot of the class rested upon an open window. At right angles with the window stood a desk, upon which was placed a large stone inkstand. Mattie leaned her left arm upon the window-sill, while her right arm extending forward reached the desk, and her hand unconsciously lay upon' the inkstand. In this position she rested, waiting for her turn to recite. The lesson, as usual, was tedious, and dragged its slow length along tediously enough, with no tact or ability on the part of the teacher to make it in- teresting,-though, sooth to say, he heard with all his might. The weather was lovely, one of those luxurious autumn days of hale old Maryland, in which balmy air, mellow sunshine, and rich]ly-tinted clouds seem to pre- sent rival contracts for making Indian summer the grand- est and most beautiful season of the year. Mattie had a ready eye for the beauties of nature, and was, withal, something of a day-dreamer. As she stood by that open-casement and gazed out upon the fair broad land- scpa and lovely sky, her thoughts became gradually de- lached from lessons, school, teacher, and all that annoyed, roaming at will amid fairy haunts of beautiful imagin-   "      DOINGS IN MARYAND,           ; ings. She wondered where those lovely clouds went to  rest when weary   with wandering near the dull earth (for to poor Mattie the earth was very dulD, and she thought if she were only at liberty like them to float away and choose her resting-place, how soon she would glide from all that troubled her, and be at peace in the far-off expanse, where  the pure light seemed to repose, and from which the holy stars, modest and shy as nuns, peep out from their case- ments when all is still around. But that sweet romancing  was interrupted by the counteracting thought, "What  would become of poor sick mother? No one to comfort  ^ her or prepare her nourishment if she were away. Oh, no,  no  She would not be a cloud, or visit the stars unless  mother could go with her." At this stage of Mattie's -r musings a body of vapor peculiar in form floated overhead; it seemed to her childish imagination to resemble a human  figure, the upper part clearly defined, the lower draped in  obscurity. The child gazed upon the strange configuration spell-bound, eyes expanded, nostrils dilated; the vapor figure seemed to return her gaze with intelligent recogni- :; tion; it seemed every moment more and more to resemble her mother, and, as it receded from sight, spread forth its arms, beckoning her away to join the aerial flight; and the  rapt little dreamer was in the act of stretching forth her  hands, responsive to the summons, when a nudge in the  side from a classmate, and the shrill voice of Mr. Snipe, aroused her from her reverie. "Are you dead?" he shrieked, in a voice husky with im- patient rage. "No, sir," replied the startled child, flurried, and un- conscious of a pun, "but I was buried in the clouds." ' Some of the larger children tittered. Mr. Snipe felt a little quizzed.  "Oh, dear!" said he, with a sardonic grin that made   // OR MATILDA DOUGLAS.        45 Mattie's heart flutter like a bird's wing, " how very witty I Not dead, but buried!-and buried in the clouds I What affinity have you with the clouds, I should like to know?" "I mean, sir," said the child, frightened into a confes- sion of her thoughts, " that I was buried in thought about the clouds, one somehow so reminded me of my sweet mother, as it melted into the upper sky." Mr. Snipe interrupted, with horrid malice, "Why don't you say reeled in the upper sky, and then it might remind you of sweet staggering father too?" The little boys laughed, and Mary Flum laughed; but the larger children looked hard at Mr. Snipe, and did not laugh. This red-hot bolt, hurled with the fury of a demon, con- founded but did not crush its intended victim, as the assassin at heart hoped and intended it should. Mattie had been taught to consider her father as an unfortunate, to pity, but to blame him not. Mrs. Douglas abhorred the thought that child of hers should scorn the author of its being, and she sedulously endeavored to remove from Mat- tie's mind all unkind reflections upon her father, and to implant pity,--not contemptuous pity, but loving, saving pity; sublime regret,-such as the beholder might feel for some noble palace all in ruins, some grand old castle in which the demon-ghost had displaced the legal inhabitants, and now riots in undisturbed possession, with the owls and the bats; some majestic tree, that promised, in coming years, to be the "storms' defiance and the flocks' defense, now scathed and blighted by the lightning's untimely stroke." "And you," said the mother, " must be the loving spirit, that, like a gracious vine, entwines with caressing tendrils its shattered trunk, and covers with sheltering foliage, ever green and fresh, its riven heart." Mattie's father, to her poetic imagination, was a sacred   "      DOINGS IN MARYAND,           :i trust committed to her keeping; and this unprovoked as- : sault, this brutal allusion to his misfortune, touched a X harsh chord in her nature, and caused it to give forth its  first discordant sound. She felt as if a scorpion had stung her heart, and, with resenting heat, she wished to crush the reptile. The roused blood of the kilted Douglases : rushed through her heart, her head, her hand,-through ' that hand under which lay so temptingly the huge stone inkstand, and the next instant it was flying through the . air, in a direct line for Mr. Snipe's head. Fortunately, it struck the wall, and not him; but his snowy shirt-bosom, buff vest, dove-colored coat, and immaculate pantaloons, all objects of tender regard to Mr. Snipe, and of much .... solicitude to Mrs. Flax, bore the marks of its murky con- . I tents. ,The moment the inkstand left Mattie's hand, minus bonnet and books, she bounded like an antelope from the room.                         , "Catch her Catch her!" shouted Mr. Snipe. The  ? little boys and Mary Flum, eager for the fun, were instantly : in hot pursuit; the larger boys kept their seats,-all ex-, cept one. / ,' )i X- ' jW   OR JIATILDA  DOUGLAS.       47  CHAPTER    X. BILL BOTHERMENOT. "Iis was the gifted eye which grace still touched As if with second nature; and his dreams, tIis childish dreams, were lit by hues of heaven, Those which make genius." A. BOY seated at the lower end of the school-room arose, and, taking his hat, quickly followed those who had fol- lowed Mattie. Mr. Snipe and the pupils that remained with him were equally surprised at the movement, for this was quite a remarkable boy. Taciturn, and seemingly un- conscious of passing events, he appeared to take no interest whatever in the affairs of others. He was always draw- ing; Mr. Snipe niever proffered him any assistance or direction; he never solicited any, but quietly drew on. He was brave, too, in his artistic undertakings, for he attempted to copy everything that came within the range of his vision. He would mount the highest hill to catch a glimpse of the coming sun; he would linger at even- ing till the last tinge of his departing glory had faded from the western sky, and arrest upon his paper mirror the faintest shadow of its fleeting hue. He would attempt, in the wildest storm, to convey to his uncouth sheet sonme expression of its terrific grandeur. He drew the bird on bough and on wing, the bee in field and on flower; he drew the leaf, the landscape, the school, the scholars, and oh, reader, I wish I could show you how he drew Mr. Snipe. This boy, so strangely absorbed, did not like to be interrupted when engaged at the work he loved, and   48      DOINGS IN MARYAND, when the other boys came peering round to catch a glimpse  of his queer doings, he invariably dismissed them with the  exclamation, "Don't bother me!" hence he received the 4 sobriquet of Bill Bothermenot.  When Mattie left the school thus precipitately, as de-  scribed, and found herself pursued, she quitted the lane  which led to the main road, and struck across the field in  a direct line, as she thought, for home. When Bill got into the lane he found the hounds in rapid chase, and, in- tending to intercept and head them off, he too struck i across the field, thus inadvertently tracing Mattie's steps.  He and she caught sight of each other at the same moment, and he saw that Mattie, in her bewilderment, was going i in a direction entirely wrong, away from her home instead of to it, and that she would either be lost in the forest, or drowned in a stream which wound its meandering circuit ! at the foot of the hill. The thoughtful boy instantly changed his purpose, and, instead of attending to the yelping pack in the lane, he followed the fugitive for the purpose of overtaking her and changing her route. The frightened girl saw him in pursuit, and of course considered him an emissary of Mr. Snipe. Then, to dis- tance him, she quickened her speed to the utmost; hair  flying in all directions, first one shoe off, and then the  other. Bill was by far the fleeter of the two, and gained upon her at every step. He shouted to her to "stop; he  would protect her; she need not fear him;" but Mattie understood not his words; she only heard his voice, and strained her speed until the blood gushed from her nostrils. The roar of the milldam was frightfully near, the click of the mill admonitory of danger: she heard not, cared not; she dreaded nothing but Mr. Snipe. A quick turn in the copse she had entered, brought her in full view and close to the stream, turbid and swollen by recent/rain; and now ;i    OR MATILDA DOUGLAS.        49 comes that one great moment in a life which decides for- ever the character of an individual; " sink or swim, sur- vive or perish," must be the motto of those wlhoom God has elevated above the rest. And so the helpless child stood for a moment at bay, the water in front, her pur- suer close behind. The decayed limb of a tree had been brought down by the fieshet, and, having caught on either side, lay across the stream, presenting the deceitful ap- pearance of a temporary bridge. "I will risk it, rather than be taken back to Mr. Snipe," she resolved, and gained, by a single bound, the middle of the fragile stick. It crashed beneath her feet like broken glass, and in the next instant -she was floundering in the deep and rapid waters, borne on to the milldam, to the millrace, to the great wheel, to the great ocean of eternity, but for this blundering Bill Bothermenot, who, with in- credible celerity, doffed jacket and boots, and, plunging into the stream, in less time than it takes to describe the adventure, saved the drowning girl. "I would rather die than be taken back to Mr. Snipe," she said, as he seated her upon the bank. "You shall neither die nor be taken back to Mr. Snipe," said the determined boy, as he wrung the water from her dripping hair. "But why did you not stop when I called you? You feared me; feared I would take you back to Mr. Snipe? Why, child, if that worthy were here now I would pitch him into the stream, and he might get out as best he could. But come; you are wet and weary, and must hasten home.  Bill's jacket, which he had thrown upon the bank, being the only dry article he possessed, except his boots, he bound around the girl's head, tying it by the arms under the chin, and, taking her by the hand, led on in the most direct way homeward. 5   50      DOINGS IN MARYAND, Noble boy! May the chivalric blood which flows in thy young veins yet bring thee honor and renown!  i  When these odd-looking travelers, in pitiable plight,-  Bill in his shirt-sleeves, with clothes dripping water, and  Mattie, equally dripping, with jacket-bound head,-arrived  at the old field-house, Bill remarked,-  "Had I not better go in with you and explain matters  to your mother? She might be angry with you for this -  day's work, as she does not fully understand the case."  A My mother always believes me, and she is never angry  with any one," replied Mattie, unbinding the jacket from  her brow. "I suppose you will not return to school again?" said Bill, opening the gate to let her pass.  "I rather think my college days are ended," said Mattie,  with an effort at a smile. And so they were. This transaction at school caused much comment in the - neighborhood, and persons said the School Committee ought to investigate the matter, others said Mr. Snipe : ought to be dismissed; but the wily creature had got the right side of Mary Flum, and she ruled her grandfather;  besides, Mrs. Flax could not spare the poultry-doctor, so  the affair, like most of the injuries inflicted upon the help- less poor, was passed over and soon forgotten.  kl   OR MATILDA DOUGLAS.         51 CHAPTER     XI. SNOWSTORM. "'Tis easy to accuse Whom fortune hath made faulty by their fall; They who are vanquished may not refuse The titles of reproach they're charged withal." TIE present chapter of our story brings us back, or rather forward, to the winter when the Douglas family- father, mother, and child-were first introduced to the reader; when the ghostly horse, the shivering cow, the famishing hen, composed the entire wealth and resources of this distressed and perishing household. The events we have narrated, degrading as they were, transpired previous to the time when these unfortunates had reached the horrid climax of poverty and destitution sketched in the first chapter; and from this epoch our story now pro- gresses. Mrs. Douglas is by this time so reduced in health as to be unable to leave .her couch. Yesterday her cough was unusually severe; to-day her husband has gone to the store to procure the ingredients for making the mixture which relieves her most. A country store, reader, is an aggregation of stores,- all kinds in one, collective in character as heterogeneous in arrangement. In a well-filled country store, almost everything you need may be obtained,-a cent's worth of salt or a suit of broadcloth. Bacon and blue-pills lie quietly side by side; gunpowder and lucifer-matches are huddled together in close proximity; hats and spurs hang ?   52      DOINGS IN MARYAND,            X on ladies' saddles; drugs and dye-stuffs are almost mixed; ii peppermint and prussic acid are scarcely distinguishable; cards and prayer-books mingled like diamonds and corrup- tion in a coffin; and sad am I to say that there, too, the  hydra alcohol is permitted to rear its horrid front and charm its victim while it takes his life. It coils so cunningly among  the luscious grapes, and wriggles itself into the heart of the corn and rye. The spicy cordial, the fragrant juniper, each conceals a fang, and scores of unfortunates, whom the neces- X sities of life compel to frequent the place, are caught en- : tangled in its deadly folds, bitten, and destroyed forever. Statesmen and orators, with you rests this great respon- sibility I                        @ The day is now far spent, and Mr. Douglas has not yet returned from the store. A violent storm is approaching, X and the cold is intense. The night will be a fearful one. ,:! Mrs. Douglas is becoming every moment more and more   X excited and alarmed; paroxysnms of coughing follow each X other in rapid succession,-each seems sufficient to expel  her life.                       .  "Go again to the top of the hill, my child," she requests, - "and see if there is any prospect of your father. Oh, if I X could but go in search of him! He will -perish this night  if he stays out in the storm." She tries to get from the ' A bed; the effort brings on another fit of coughing, which X leaves her nearly breathless.             i: Mattie did as directed by her mother; but no glimpse of the absent one blessed her strained vision. The snow- flakes descended thick and fast, the wind moaned omi- nously through the tops of the trees. The child felt an in- :; definable apprehension End dread of somnething--she knew not what. Sadly she returned to the house. Her silence t gave the answer to her mother's eager and inquiring look. '; The night has now closed in, the storm has increased in :. sy/:   OR MATILDA DOUGLAS.        53 violence; Mrs. Douglas is frantic with apprehension; the hectic fire glows and burns upon her cheek and lights with superhuman lustre her sparkling eyes. Now her anxiety has increased to frenzy. "Mattie," she exclaims, " you must go in search of your father, you must find him and bring him home, or he will perish in the woods this night. " "Oh, mother," cried the child, quivering with terror, "where shall I go to find him? the woods are so wide, the storm is so awful, and the night is so dark." "You must follow the road that leads through the woods to the main road," replied the mother; " perhaps you will find him by the side of it. He may have grown weary, and, having sat down to rest, has fallen asleep," said the heart-wife, in palliation of her husband's delinquency, " and you must arouse him and bring him homle." "I shall lose myself in the forest," cried the child, "and die before morning. What then will become of you, mother, when father and I are both dead in the 'woods?" "I; too, shall die this night, if your father is not found," :said the mother; "but stay, I shall go in search of him -myself. I will save him, or die in the attempt; yes, I will ,perish with him I Stay me not, Mattie, I am content to lay my broken heart by the side of lis frozen corpse." "Do not attempt it, mother! do not, I implore you!" ex- , claimed the child, throwing her arms around her mother to ,-restrain her; "you cannot go, mother, indeed you cannot. Trust to me, mother, I will go in search of my father, and I will save him, or I, too, will die in the attempt." The child's whole characteristic strength of feeling was now wrought up to the highest pitch of do-or-die resolve. "Get upon the horse, and take Carlo with you; the in- =-stinct of those animals will bring you home when your 5*   54      DOINGS IN MARYAND, own judgment might become confused and lead you   L  astray," was the direction of the mother. The distressed child started upon her almost hopeless  search, mounted upon the wretched animal that was scarcely able from hungered weakness to stand up in the : storm, but rocked and swayed from side to side at every  surge of the blast. Now the snow drove "fast and  furious," the tempest roared and howled, the strained  limbs snapped and crashed in the crushing blast; and the child braved all this in the dark and lonely forest, with no  companion save the two dumb brutes, with no courage . but the strength inspired by filial love.  Ye who, while the piercing blast goes screaming by and the savage tempest rages without, recline on soft luxurious couch or undulating sofa, with atmosphere softened and  perfumed to pamper the most fastidious sense, think of  this lone child amid the lonely hills on such a night-on  such a mission. Oh, were there no other world than this, nO world to set this one right, then indeed might the child of misfor- : tune hearken to the Satan-prompted voice of one of old,  who, under the raspings of sore affliction, in bitterness of heart, cried to the companion of her sufferings, "Curse God and die!"                    IX Mattie took the road as directed by her mother; but the J violence of the storm was such that she was compelled to  lay her head close to the neck of the horse, which she v grasped with both hands and arms to avoid being blown from her seat. In this position she could scarcely have seen her father had she passed quite near him, and the drifting snow which lay in heaps across the path might have concealed his rigid form, and he (crushed beneath the feet of the animaD become a victim to the very solici- i  tude that sought to save him. !'::!' [   OR MATILDA DOUGLAS.        55 Carlo appeared to understand the object of the journey quite as well as his young mistress; perhaps he had seen service of the kind before, in company with his older mistress; he ran hither and thither, whining and snuffing at every heap of snow, evidently determined to accomplish  his object in spite of the-terrors of the tempest. Mattie had traveled on in this manner for some time, certainly in no favorable condition to achieve an important object or to find the Franklin of her Arctic expedition, when by a sudden lulling of the tempest she heard Carlo balk. The joyful cry of "Land! land!" from the topmast of the gallant Pinta, sent no greater thrill of joy to the weary hearts of the great Columbus' crew than did that bark of dog to the sad, sick heart of the forlorn child-wanderer in the lonely forest. And yet, why the joy? The dog may have found a wild animal, a rabbit, or a coon. "God of my mother," prayed the child, "grant that this may be my father, if, indeed, he is in the forest, lost and benumbed in this terrific storm." She turned her horse's head in the direction indicated by the barking of the dog, and urged the speed of the sluggish brute to its utmost. As she neared the spot, Carlo fcame to meet her, wagged his tail, then, running back to the snow-rick, barked again with all his might. Mattie sprang to the ground and commenced demolishing the heap of snow; she scattered the yielding mass in every direction; she threw aside armful after armful with breathless haste, until, notwith- standing the excessive cold, the perspiration oozed from every pore; her heart was in her work. She neared the ground, something more substantial than snow presented rsistauce to her groping thrust;- after all, it might be a log; and so it was,-with a human bead ppon it, "Oh, my father! my father!" she shrieked, in accents that outshrieked the storm. She threw her arms about s . t  . k t x  *  .   56      RDOINGS IN MARYAND, his neck, kissed his cold, wet face, laid her glowing cheek : to his, as if to impart warmth and motion to the chilled ! : and stagnant blood. By every means in her child-power, . she tried to arouse him to consciousness; finding it im- : possible to do so, she determined to return to her mother I and obtain furtler directions. She drew from hei person the tattered old cloak with which she was enveloped, and, wrapping it around her father's head and shoulders, corn- '^- manded Carlo to lie down upon a corner of it. Talking  - to the dog, the anxious and affectionate discoverer com- manded him to guard both the discovery and its cover;.  and, in case the torpid object should arouse in her absence, she, in the most solemn manner, and shaking her finger at the dog, directed him "to bring his master straight home.'t i Now the storm in some measure abated its fury, seem- : ingly in very pity to the child, and the clouds, some- -G,; what broken, rolled in heavy masses across the heavens, , permitting the moon occasionally to glance upon the eartrh., : Let us hope she never witnessed such a scene but once. "I have found him! I have found him, motherl" cried -: the child, bounding into the house; "but he is so sound.  asleep, I cannot waken him; what shall I do now?'"   :; "If you can keep him alive until he has slept some -  ; time, he will be able to walk;" said the mother. "You : must take all the rugs and comforts you can find about the house, and wrap him in them, and here, take this pillow - (drawing one from under her own head) and place it be- ; tween your father's head and the cold ground. If you  ; can keep up a circulation of the blood until sleep has re- stored him to consciousness, all will be well; and I wish you could carry with you some warm bricks to place to his  extremities," said the mother. "He is far down in the forest," replied the child; "thes ' bricks would cool before reaching him; but I have seen   OR MATILDA DOUGLAS.        57 the woodcutter's fires, and I will make one for my father, and I will bring him home in safety, dear mother, so do not fret, but sleep sweetly until we return."  And the child playfully patted the shrunken cheeks and kissed the colorless lips of the attenuated being before her, in happy ignorance of the fact that she would never hear that soft, sweet voice again, or look into those love-lit eyes, intelli- gent with recognition. As they had but one principal room in the house, it served for parlor, kitchen, and bedroom; and Mrs. Doug- las, as she lay there, watched with intense anxiety Mattie's preparations; moments seemed hours to her, and she con- stantly exclaimed, " Hurry, my love, hurry away I bring him quickly back; I would see him once more, O God! I would see him once more I" Mattie replenished the fire, and placed the tea-kettle near, that she might have warm nourishment to give the benumbed night-wanderer when he returned.   Having completed her arrangements, she was about to leave the house, when her mother raised herself upon her arm, and, stretching forth her hand with the most beseeching ges- ture, cried out, in a gasping, sobbing voice, husky with emotion, " Oh, Mattie, Mattie, your father's life is in your hands; if you love me, take care of him i" "I will, mother, I will," said the child, and, bursting into tears, she knew not why, again rushed forth into the savage night.   58      DOINGS IN MARYAND, I CHAPTER    XII.          i : DEATH. "Misfortune does not always wait on vice, Ad g Nor is success the constant guest of virtue."' : . " As the sobbing child upon the skeleton of a horse  ; floundered on, through the snow, back to the place where X she had left her burden, she turned over in her mind many  projects for the immediate rescue of the charge so solemnly committed to her keeping. "If I could but get some one F. to help me home with him, how glad I would be! I know  that generous boy, who drew me from the water, would  assist me if he were here; but he lives miles away; and : then our nearest neighbor is Mr. Flax, and Mr. Snipe lives . there,-oh, no, I cannot go there, I would die firsti" "But :  your father may die likewise," whispered something in her -ji heart; "how will you reconcile that with your pride?"? "He stall not die, he shall live!" she exclaimed aloud, so ;r firm was her resolve, so strong her intent. Now she urged  anew the speed of her jaded animal, and, having arrived at the spot, found things much as she had left them, except  that Carlo had crept nearer to the object of his guard, and  lay enveloped in the cloak close against his master's breast. Mattie made haste to wrap in the covering she had ; brouo-ht the unconscious form before her, and to place un- der his head the pillow of which her mother had deprived ' her own aching brow, to add to the comfort of one who  had procured naught save thorns for her head and daggers g for her heart. O woman! woman I when thou art true, ; thy name is but another name for the Paradise of God, for X   OR MATILDA .DOUGLAS.        59 thou art all of heaven that earth can show I Could that pillow have given its testimony, what a sad story would it not have told I What charges would it not have brought against the object it came to solace and to save I In the still hours of the lonely night, when none but true hearts and the holy stars keep watch, how often had that pillow been drenched with the bitter tears of despairing anguish wrung from eyes dull and weary by reason of their wakeful sorrow I  How many sleepless nights had been passed upon its yielding but unsympathizing bosom; how many sobs and sighs that drink up the heart like a sirocco, and render it an arid desert; how many prayers, that ap- peared to fall back upon the soul like burning drops of molten lead, had been breathed in its dull ear, not duller, though, than the besotted heart of the wretched inebriate, the author of all this woe I He had fallen near a stone-quarry, and the deep excava- tions in the side of the hill had escaped the drifting snow, and now exposed to view an abundance of comparatively dry leaves and twigs. One of these excavations Mattie selected for her fireplace, and, striking a match, commu- nicated the ignition to paper, which she had brought for the purpose, and this again to dry leaves and twigs, then to chips and bits of bark, till, finally, she fanned her little spark into a generous flame. The quarry furnished an abundance of loose stones, which this most laborious child placed around the fire, and, as they warmed, around her father-to his feet, his chest- a regular. fortification-and so fairly built out death. He was covered with the coarse rugs brought from home for the purpose, and these retained the steam produced by the hot stones upon the snow-covered ground. The sleeper was soon enveloped in a copious vapor-bath; a Thompso- nian practitioner could scarcely have given him a better.   60      DOINGS IN MARYAND,    . The rigid muscles relaxed, the arms moved, the lips parted, and a deep and regular breathing proclaimed a natural and recuperating sleep.                 i'-? Mattie seated herself upon the log, and, taking his head  upon her lap, chafed the clammy brow,-that gloriously 1 expansive brow,--one which bore the unmistakable impress :; of genius,-"a temple where a God might dwell." But  what doth it here? Oh, solve me, ye who can; what doth  it here?  5 Thus the child passed the night in the forest, minister- ing to her unconscious father, who, but for her, ere morn-  ing dawned, would have passed into the world of spirits. ! The prayer so often offered in his behalf,--"Oh, spare the ,': barren fig-tree yet another year,"-again was laid before '- the throne, again was heard and answered.      - Suddenly Mr. Douglas awoke, and, looking wildly  around, exclaimed,-. "Mattie, where has your mother gone?"   "She is at home, father," replied the child. "Home! home!" he repeated; " and is not this home?" A'l, "No, father, this is not home."' "But your mother was here a moment since; she laid I her hand upon my brow and kissed my cheek."      ( No, father; it was I who was chafing your temples : and trying to revive you; and, oh, I am so glad you have awakened, for mother is very sick at home, and so anxious X about us out in the cold woods all night. Come, father,  let us hasten to her." And the child essayed, with her ? puny strength, to assist the large man to rise. "Your mother is not sick," sullenly exclaimed the be- ;1 wildered man; " she was here this moment. She did not look ill, but young and lovely as when I bore her fronmt her father's halls my bride.")  "You have been dreaming, father,'" said the child. II   OR MATILDA DOUGLAS.        61 "You are not well, yourself. Let us-hasten home to mother, who will be so happy to see us return in safety after such an awful night." She placed in his hand the bridle of the horse, upon which to lean, and, replacing upon the animal the baggage, led the way homeward with a light and joyous step. Thoughts of her mother's loving, grateful smile, which she knew would be lavished upon her, so elated the child that she could scarcely restrain her movements sufficiently to keep pace with her father's uncertain and   t tardy step. Her young heart overflowed with glee; she skipped about on either side, and tried to rouse Carlo to a playful chase "You lazy old fellow," she exclaimed, "why don't you run on before and with joyful bark ap- prise vour mistress that we are near? Home, home, I say, and be the first to tell the joyful news!" But Carlo appeared to think he had done work enough for one night, and with drooping tail crouched closer to his young mistress's side. Arrived at home, Mattie would not wait to unload the horse, but entered with her father, impatient to witness the first burst of joyful surprise, to receive the blessing  which she knew would be invoked upon her by her grate- ful motlher. Bythis time the husband and father in some measure realized his own condition, his narrow escape from death, and all the sad circumstances of his plight. As Mattie led him forward to the bed on which lay his wife, he half averted his head, as if ashamed to gmeet an eye whose very look of sad joy and mournful love would be reproach. But he need not fear; those eyes will never look reproach or love again. A wild shriek at his side caused him to bound from the floor. "Oh, my mother, my mother I She is dead, she is dead!" 6   62      DOINGS IN MARYAND,           7 i CHAPTER    XIII. Lay her in the earth,  And from her fair and unpolluted flesh May violets spring."  SIN must have an expiatory sacrifice; the blood of in- nocence must wash out guilt. It is strange and inexplica- ble, but it is nevertheless true, an atonement for sin must 1 be made, either vicariously or otherwise. From the blood of Abel to that of the Messiah, and from that dark day  on which the earth, in horror of the scene it witnessed,  turned back upon its course, to the present, the life-stream from purity and innocence has poured forth its rich liba- tions upon the altar of pollution and crime.  Mrs. Douglas had spent long years in praying, hoping,  waiting to witness the reformation of her husband. No  reward for all her constancy had she found, but her un-  faltering love still pursued him, and, like a dove holding  forth the olive-branch of peace, ever hovered near. Her tears, her sighs, her failing health, her deadly  pallor, her pleading looks, eloquent with feeling too deep for utterance, all passed unnoticed, uncared for, by the in-  fatuated victim of an uncontrolled appetite. Her spoken and unspoken sorrow was like the lost mariner's dying wail for help, when cast upon desolate shores where none save birds and beasts give audience to the dreadful dirge of the remorseless sea. But now that the wretched man beheld the corpse of her whom he had sworn to cherish and had destroyed, the spell of sensual sorcery was broken, conscience-riven, and his mental vision cleared at   OR MATILDA DOUGLAS.        63 last, but, alas, too late, from its dark and deadly obscura- tion! Every principle of the man's strong but hitherto bewildered sense of right cried aloud for vengeance, for vengeance on the destroyer, for vengeance on himself  "I have done the deed! I have killed my wife!" he ex- claimed, in throes of new-born, keen conviction. "O righteous Heaven, strike the murderer dead! let the same dark grave hide the destroyer and his victim! let the same sheet of death wind us together in everlasting oblivion! But, no I Why should she be forgotten, the holy, the an- gelic? neither should the vestments that shroud her pure form touch my vile clay. O God, death to me would be too great a boon! I must live! live to wear out the rem- nant of my days in goading, in harrowing remorse! But stay, O spirit of my sainted wife, stay thy flight and bear my vow with thee to heaven. Never, never more shall the accursed cup touch my polluted lips!" The victim was slain, the sinner was saved. The morning dawned in beauty, the sun rose in glory, and looked as gayly and smilingly around upon the snow- clad hills as if there was no sorrow upon earth, no cause for sadness, no strife of elements, no destruction of hopes, no cold corpse lying in the cabin of crushed and broken hearts--no struggle of a soul compelled to quit its hold on life, just at the very moment when all its profoundest energies of purpose were called into most active use among the living. Mr. Douglas repaired to the village to obtain the coffin and make what preparation he could for the burial. The mean structure which he ordered to be the last receptacle of his wife, was, how different in expense and material from that costly cradle in which her infancy reposed! -How very different the pageantry and pomp with which he took her to his arms a bride, from the style in which   "     DOINGS IN MARYAND, he now put her from him and resigned her to the arms of  death!-yet, like Alcestis, of classic memory, she had  died for him! She might have lived, she might have : returned to the friends of her youth, and enjoyed in their  society elegance and ease, could she but have broken from her heart those bands of love, sweeter than life, stronger than death, that bound her to him first, that bound him  last. A boy, whose business with the cabinet-maker that morning was picture-frames and varnish, stood near and heard Mr. Douglas give the order for the coffin; he in- stantly quitted the shop, and, mounting his horse, hastened with all speed to his mother-for 'Bill Bothermenot had a  mother, he was the only son of his mother-and she was a widow, but not a destitute widow; all the comforts, with many of the luxuries of life, were hers. "Mother 1 mother " exclaimed Bill, rushing into the  house, "Mrs. Douglas is dead. You must go over there at  once. Only think of that poor child alone with her dead mother. Her father is in the village. I saw him just now. And there is no telling when he may go home again. I will have the carriage waiting in a moment, mother. Do  please make haste." Bill was in such a hurry now he would scarcely give his mother time to put her bonnet on, and but for him she would have visited Mrs. Douglas long before, because she  had felt much interest in the family ever since Mattie's  trouble at school, in which her son had played so promi- nent a part; but he constantly dissuaded her, saying Mrs. Douglas did not wish to see visitors. He had drawn the confession from Mattie that her mother shunned society, and a visit under the circumstances would be an intrusion. Bill's mother was not one of our professionally benevo- lent people, not by any means a honeythunder, or the   OR MATILDA DOUGLAS. seclusion in which the sensitiveness of Mrs. Douglas chose to enshroud itself would have been invaded ere this. No, she was not one of those who take pleasure in witnessing distress and a pride in probing wounds in the ulcerated heart, and leading on to suppuration gangrenes that else might have healed by the first intention; not one of those who, after dispensing a penny of help and a pound of advice to the poor and afflicted, entertain with glowing accounts of their generous doings the fat parson as he refreshes himself by their fountains of tea and crops delicious herbage from their mountains of dainties. Oh, no, Bill's mother was not one of these; she was only a lady with true womanly sympathies. As Bill-'and his mother journeyed on to the house of mourning, said the boy, "Mother, I do expect Mr. Doug- las has not a spot upon the earth in which to bury his wife, and I am sure he is not able to purchase now; he will have to put her in a corner of the woods or in a gully by the roadside. Won't you permit me to invite him to bury her in our family graveyard?" "I am willing that you shall make him such an offer," said the mother, " and I thank God that He has enabled me to furnish a grave for the stranger; but I thank Him yet more for the noble, generous-hearted son He has given me. No property, however valuable, could be to me an equivalent for a selfish, unprincipled child." And deli- cious tears of pride and joy filled the grateful mother's eyes, The lady, having arrived at the house of death, found the child lying upon the bed, her head resting upon her mother's corpse. She had lain there since her return from the forest, stunned, stupefied with horror. As Mr. Doug- las passed through the room on his way out, he cast a wistful look at child and mother. Supposing the former 6*   "      DOINGS IN MARYAND,           X asleep, he would not awake her, but went on, muttering to  himself, "Poor child, happy for her could her sleep also be eternal. Happy for both could one grave receive them."  The first attention of the lady was given to the child. !: She seated her upon her lap and tried to soothe and corn- fort her. But what comfort can be given to one whose all in life is lost, and lost forever? Mattie's mother was [XX her all. Now that she is gone, what is left to her? what ? has she to live for?  "Oh, bury me in the grave with my motherl" she   i plead to the lady whose arms encircled her.      j  "No, no, my child," replied the lady; " vou have some- thing yet to live for,- your father! Transfer ,your love to him, and struggle on for his sake if not for your own." ' This remark brought to the mind of the child her  X mother's dying injunction, when on the preceding night : the woman stretched forth her hands in the agonies of death, and cried with her expiring breath, "Oh, Mattie I Mattie I if you love me, take care of him!"  After the lady had in some measure succeeded in quieting the child, she proceeded to dress the corpse and : prepare it for burial. In after-years it was a source of  gratification to Mattie to remember that no vulgar or mer- cenary bands had touched that mother's sacred clay,-for  sacred it was to her. a!l   OR MATILDA  DOUGLAS.       67  CHAPTER    XIV. CHARITY. "Methinks the generous and the good Shall woo thee from the shades of solitude, O'er friendless grief compassion shall awake, And smile on innocence for mercy's sake." THE burial is over, the devoted wife, the fond, faithful mother, is laid away plainly, humbly, in her cold, dark dome, forever hid from the longing eyes of those dear ones for whom she lived, for whom she died. The excitement of the occasion is over; other excitants are wanting, and Mr. Douglas is prostrate-is ill. Mattie must again take her position as nurse. She had loved her mother with every power of her strong, earnest, faithful nature; every energy of her heart, vigorous to love and t love and to labor, was called into active use, every chord of feeling fully strung, for that dear mother. That channel for her gushing sym- pathies-was now closed; the flood of feeling thus driven back upon her heart happily found another outlet; another object for care, for solicitude, presented itself; and that ob- ject was her mother's idol, the burden of her dying charge. The resolve of the girl's heart was healthy; she determined to devote herself to the living for the sake of the dead. The physician summoned to attend Mr. Douglas gave it as his opinion that many months, perhaps years, must elapse before the tone of his system, impaired by long abuse, would be so far restored as to enable the unhappy man to engage again in' the active pursuits of life. This announcement fell upon Mattie's heart like a stone. She   68      DOINGS IN MARYAND, knew some one must labor for their support; her mother had for years-her father was now incapable, and what could her child-hands accomplish? Neither was Mattie alone in her anxiety. Her father, aroused at last from his i Rip-Van-Winkle torpor, from a lethargy that had chained  him during the best years of his life, beheld with dismay the lowering tempest. It was now all too late to retrace his steps; the storm was upon him, the flood of evil which he had been heaping up for his own destruction bore down upon him with resistless violence-to escape was impossible. "Mattie," said the unfortunate man, "I wish to talk to you of the future; it is useless now to speak of the past. It appears I shall not be able for some time,.if ever again, to engage in active business; consequently, as I am pos- sessed of no means of support, I must seek an asylum for  the present in an institution provided for indigent sick. With what little money I can raise from the sale of my few effects, I will send you to your relations beyond the  seas. I will get a person in the neighborhood to put you  on board a vessel, and I will write to your friends (though I have had no communication with them for years) to ap- prise them of your arrival. You will be kindly received and tenderly cared for by your mother's family, and once with them you will not only be safe from the ills that arise from poverty and disgrace, but you will enjoy the luxuries of life and the elegancies of refined society. For this last advantage, especially, I wish you to go, and in the enjoy- ment of that position in life which is your birthright, but from which my sad career has debarred you, banish for- ever from your breast all memories of your unfortunate father." "No, father 1" replied the child, firmly, calmly, proudly. "I cannot go! The last words my mother ever spoke to   OR MATILDA DOUGLAS.        6 me were, 'If you love me, take care of him I' How, then, could I go away and leave you sick, with none but strangers, who do not love you, to attend you? Oh, no, I cannot go." "But, child," said the man, with deep emotion, "what will subsist us? We have no resource." "I do not know," she replied, " what we will do; but my mother told me always to trust in God, and He could bring it to pass. I will try that." Mr. Douglas gazed upon his daughter with mingled curiosity and astonishment; she evinced such childlike simplicity, mingled with such matronly firmness, he knew not how to account for the opposites of her character. He did not reflect that the seclusion in which she had been raised fostered the one element, while the burden that he had imposed upon her heart and energies matured the other. Mattie, however, had found a better friend in her emer- gency than Mr. Douglas suspected, or than she herself had dared to hope. Bill Bothermenot's mother was her daily visitor, companion, and counselor. It was curious to observe how everything about the place suddenly changed; how the shabby brush-heap at the door reformed its char- acter, and became a respectable and comfortable-looking woodpile; how the horse grew fatter, the cow less shiver- ing, and how even Biddy, the hen, cackled as if her pros- pects in life had brightened considerably. Yet all this was done cautiously, and in a manner the least calculated to wound feelings sensitive and constitutionally independent. The jellies and cake, the nicely-prepared nourishment of every description brought daily by the lady, she told Mattie, were in consideration of the well-known capricious- ness of invalid appetite, which always preferred what came from abroad. "Besides," said the lady, "you are    7'0      DOINGS IN MARYAND, so much employed in attendance upon your father, you  have not time to prepare his nourishment." She did not A wish Mattie to suppose that she was aware there was no ; food in the house for her to prepare.        Ad Mattie's lip quivered, and her eye moistened; but she only replied, "I thank you, ma'am, and I shall never for-  get your kindness or fail to repay it to you or yours." How many years rolled their sad and joyous rounds, ! how many bitter draughts, mixed with a few sweets, how- ever, had this child to drink, before this promise, thus casually made, was sacredly kept I   .       ' CHAPTER    XV.          a THE KELSOES.  "On all sides, from innumerable tongues, A dismal, universal hiss, the sound Of public scorn." , AMONG the myriads flung upon our shores from the isle a of "bogs and blunders" were the two brothers John and Thomas Kelso. An uncle had preceded them to this land  of Canaan, and, as he had become rich, and was yet a a bachelor, these youths, considering themselves his heirs I at law, scented him across the briny deep as instinct- ively as the crow scents the carrion. They did not wait, however, for a dead man's shoes or bones, but ob- tained the means of subsistence by becoming drivers of butchers' carts. By helping here and there about the slaughter-house, they obtained a knowledge of the business, which they commenced for themselves, when, upon the   OR MATILDA DOUGLAS.        71 sudden death of the old miser-uncle, they obtained sufficient means. The lives of these two men may be written in two words,-obtain and detain. For fear one would excel the other in a matrimonial speculation, they married sisters,--Maryland girls from Cecil County. The old field-house, with its field and garden, was owned by  the brother Thomas. It was the mere corner-nook of a splendid tract of land, and the grotesque, antiquated cabin of unhewn logs had evidently been one of the first erected while Maryland was yet a colony, and probably occupied by the party who reclaimed the soil from its savage ownership. When rented by Mrs. Douglas, it was perfectly untenantable. With her own hands she made mortar of mud and filled the interstices between the logs where the original filling had mouldered away. The rents in the roof, through which the rain poured in torrents, she employed a colored man to mend. He also dug up the garden-ground, which Mrs. Douglas planted, for, like Abdalonimus, she worked in her garden; but, alas for the poetry of it I no Alexander came to her rescue. Uncle Jack, as the man-of-all-work was called, was the ser- vant of a gentleman living a few miles away, and on holidays and moonlight nights, to obtain a little pocket- money, Jack tinkered and did rough jobs of carpenter's work. And rough work it was, indeed, but then the charge he made was small, .quite within the reach of all. Mrs. Douglas paid him in sewing for the work he did for her. She made him a Sunday shirt of white cotton, and Mattie hemmed for him a pink cravat, and a red and yel- low flowered pocket-handkerchief, and when, on Sundays, he was dressed in his Sunday suit, bought with his little between-time earnings, Jack felt joyous and proud, and stepped about with the firm and lofty tread of a free-born nlan.   172     DOrTGS IN MARYAND, Said Jack to his Dinah, "Now, I don't like to take dis  'ere soin from dat dare lady, bekase I knows as how she amn awful poor, and I knows she warn't always as she is now. She is a rale lady, I knows dat, and I hates to make her work for me, but she would not let me mend the ruff till  I promised to gib her de soin for to pay for it."  Said Dinah, "Well, Jack, can't we make up de price ob de soin to de white lady? When your pumpkins am ripe,  can't you tote some to her, and baskets of taters? The next holiday we has, I means to go ober and whitewash de cabin inside and out for her, and I means to tote her baskets of 'simmons and chestnuts, and you can give some of de rabbits and birds what you catches in de traps, and so we will kind a make it up to de poor lady."  Said Jack, "Dinah, you is de beautifulest critter on dis broad yearth. You has got de best heart dat I ebber did see. I lubs you more and more ebery day, for de good  heart dat am in your body." Jack was a faithful servant, and his master had given him a garden-spot among the stumps in the newly-cleared field, and thus Jack owned the pumpkins and potatoes which he was willing to divide with the "poor white lady." On Sabbath, when the white folks were at church sing- ing praise to Heaven from velvet-and-gilt-bound books, Jack was in his garden hoeing down the weeds, and mak-  ing hills and valleys ring with his anthems of praise; not sung from books, however, but from a heart overflowing with gratitude to the good God who had given him such big pumpkins and such lots of mealy potatoes. Taken all together, Jack was a pretty good fellow, though not equal to that wonderful old Tiff who went to camp-meeting to "hunt for 'ligion" to give his dead mistress's children, and who, by the way, is the best, though the least noticed, of all Mrs. Stowe's peculiar gang.   OR MATIALDA DOUGLAS.        73 Frequently, in the morning, when Mrs. Douglas arose, she found a brace of partridges, a pheasant, or a rabbit tied to the latch-string outside the door, and then she knew that kind old Jack had made her a visit while she slept, and left food almost as miraculous as that which the prophet received when fed by the ravens. And so it came to pass, when Mrs. Douglas had plas- tered the walls, and Jack had mended the roof, and Dinah had whitewashed the cabin inside and out, and Mattie had embellished the exterior with all manner of beautiful vines and creeping plants, the place presented so attractive an appearance that Mr. Kelso raised the rent I Hitherto, by means of perpetual labor and the most self-denying econ- omy, Mrs. Douglas had managed to pay the rent; but now that it was raised beyond her ability to pay, an arrearage accumulated on the rent-roll, and a weight on her spirits, neither of which she was able to remove. After the death of this martyred woman, Mr. Kelso visited the cabin to collect, if possible, his overdue pit- tance. Learning from the child that her father was sick and destitute of money, the landlord proposed (we would say coolly, only that he was angry) that the cow and horse should be given up to him, and that a black family should be taken into the hut as co-renters. There were but two rooms, both ground rooms. "One was sufficient for such poor people," Mr. Kelso said, "and the rent would be less in consequence." To be co-renters with blacks, in the South, was always considered the last round in the social ladder; and when this proposal was made to Mattie, she sat so still, and looked so deadly white, that you might have supposed Mr. Kelso had just made an image of the snow that lay in heaps outside the door. At length, forcing back the tears that were choking it, the snow image spoke: 7   74      - DOINGS IN MARYAND, "Please, sir, don't tell my father this yet awhile; he is so sick, it would kill him. Please, sir, wait awhile, and as  soon as the weather is a little warm we will go away, and  give you up the house; and I expect my father will give you the horse and the cow for the rent that is due." "I'll take them without his consent!" said the stern man. "But how is it that your animals are in such good condition now? You raised nothing worth while on the place last year. Do you steal food for them?"9 This was more than the already overburdened heart of the child could bear, and, bursting into tears, she cried out, "Oh, no I no, sir I we don't steal; Mrs. Allston sends prov- ender for the cattle, and she visits my father every day; and I wish she were here now, to tell you that we do not steal." "Mrs. Allston? Mrs. Allston? Indeed!"When Mr.  Kelso heard that Mrs. Allston visited these people, he in- stantly arose, and, without saying another word, left the house.  As lucky Mr. Kelso had obtained everything he wanted, so he had obtained the name of being a charitable man, and a Christian. Then here was a pretty muddle! People would know that he was screwing these unfortunates to get a little rent for a dog-kennel of a lodge, and they with death, sickness, and starvation inside. Soon after Mr. Kelso's departure, Mrs. Allston arrived. Mattie was still sobbing. The lady asked the cause. Said the weeping girl, "Mr. Kelso has been here, and wants us to take a black family into the house, because we owe him rent." "Pooh, pooh! Nonsense I A black family, indeed! The man must be deranged," replied the lady. "He says," continued Mattie, "that he will take the horse and the cow for the rent we owe him.' "How much do you owe him?"   OR MATILDA DOUGLAS.  "I heard my mother say it was fifty dollars," said the figure, white as snow again at the mention of mother. "Well, surely the old Shylock will not take both horse and cow for fifty dollars; but, indeed, there is no telling what rapacity, unchecked by law, will not do. I do not pretend to know much about law, but I have heard my husband say that some of the Maryland laws, like those of the English, from which they were copied, were barbarous." "He asked me," continued the child, "if we stole the food for the animals, because they are looking so well now, and we raised nothing on the place last year." Mrs. Allston's indignant blood flushed high into her ex- pressive face, and her eye beamed with a light that was foreign to its benignant sheen. "The brute," she exclaimed, "thus to insult a helpless child!" "I said to him, that you would tell him if we stole, or not, and as soon as I mentioned your name he looked surprised, and left the house." "Well, I shall see the poor creature about the business; and now you hush crying, and don't you mention one word of this to your father; as soon as spring comes I shall re- move you both from this place, and in the mean time I shall see Mr. Kelso and secure you from further annoy- ance." Said Bill, who was a silent, but not uninterested, spec- tator, "Mother, permit me to accompany you when you visit Mr. Kelso? He might be insolent, and, if he were, I would knock him down, as he does his bullocks." "No, my son," said the mother, smiling, "you need not fear; Mr. Kelso will not be insolent to me; he is of that order of snobs who have courage-only to insult helpless and unprotected poverty." "I wish," said Mattie, "that I could do work of some kind, to pay the rent; I don't know what we will do with.   t6      DOINGS IN MAR YAND,           X out the horse and the cow, if Mr. Kelso should take them."     J                     t "I will attend to that," said the lady; " he shall not take it the little stock you have. But what kind of work do you . want?"  "My mother intended me for a teacher; but I did not get an opportunity to finish my education. I could do needlework, though; I understand 'most all kinds of needle- work."                        C "Then you could teach needlework, and, I dare say, many other things, if you were a little older, for you are uncommonly well educated for a girl of your age. I sup- pose your mother was your teacher?" "Yes, ma'am, she was, and she intended that I should be educated for a teacher myself; but she was taken from me so unexpectedly  "And here the girl again broke down, and tears choked her utterance. Said the lady, "I should think you might be a teacher of young children, even now, young as you are; I have read of such things having been done before, and why not again? You are a thoughtful child, and seem to have a  great deal of character, and, I think, independence, too; the wish you have just now expressed for work is indicative of such a trait, and I am pleased to observe it."'  Mattie's eye brightened with pleasure, and she replied, through her tears, "If age is my only fault, ma'am, I will try and be old; but I will not be cross to the little chil- dren, and hate them, because they have not a father on the 'committee.' " Mrs. Allston smiled at the earnest simplicity of the child, and replied, "Well, in the spring I shall see what kind i of a school I can get for you. In the mean time, make your i mind easy; I will take care of the present, and the future f is with God."    OR MATILDA DOUGLAS.         " CHAPTER XVI. THE KELSOES-CONTINUED. "We are to blame in this, 'Tis too much proved, that with. devotion's visage And pious action we do sugar o'er The Devil himself." THE Kelsoes, though wealthy, did not pass as current coin in the neighborhood in which they had located their country residence. They were recognized as vulgar people, bloated with money, and the surrounding gentry rather shied off and left them alone in their gilded glory. A visit from Mrs. Allston, then, was as great a social triumph as Mr. Kelso could have asked, and the plethoric-pursed butcher could scarcely regret, sfnce the visit was actually obtained, that it was, if not his brutes, his brutality which obtained it. The wife of brother Thomas, who was owner of the old field-house, was the impersonation of vulgarity, but, like many such, had the most excessive desire to appear well-bred, and made the most desperate efforts to imitate what she supposed would be the manners and con- versation of people in the higher circles of society. Her mind was as- weak as it was vulgar, and her efforts to appear elegant failed oftener than they succeeded, but, with the most laudable perseverance, she still kept trying. If by chance she got hold of a "big word," as she called it, she would fatigue the poor word to death, fairly wear it out; and then, catching at another, it shared the same fate. The preacher made use of the word redundant; Mrs.   D78     DOINGS IN MARYAND, Kelso caught it as it flew along, and henceforth every-  thing upon the earth was redundant. She would say to the waiter, "John, the dust in the parlor is redun- dant." To the cook, "Dolly, the dinner was cooked redun- dant to-day." To her daughter, "My dear, your dress is  redundant long." To her husband, "My dear, those horses run so redundant that I am afraid to get in the carriage."r The pickles were redundant with spice, the butter with salt, the gumbo with pepper, the crabs with mustard. The parson's grace at table was redundant, and the howling of the dog in the yard was the same. For the time being i everything was redundant with Mrs. Kelso; and then she -  would wring her hands, sway her head from side to side, purse up her mouth, mince her words, make her voice fine (cultivated!), and put on all the airs of a boarding-school- girl of sixteen.. The eldest son of these people was a confirmed idiot; their eldest daughter, little better, though they had bought to be her husband a man who was by trade a minister of the gospel. The Lord have mercy on us!   - The servants of the Allston mansion were greatly sur- prised one morning when the order came for the large family carriage to be taken from its long resting-place, washed and dusted for use. This carriage of state had never been used since the death of Mr. Allston, now a period of five years; but Bill wished that his mother should not visit what might prove a hostile domain without her attendants and such a display as would at once bring down the pre- tensions of people who scorned elegant simplicity and only respected ostentatious display. Said Bill, "The livery of your servants, mother, will have more effect upon the Kelsoes than all the arguments that could be adduced in favor of the cause of humanity." "If it will benefit the Douglases," said the mother,   OR MATILDA DOUGLAS.        7 why, then, order the large carriage, though, in truth, I would rather go in the small one." With liveried servants mounted before and behind this carriage of state, Mrs. Allston set out on her mission of mercy. The Kelsoes spent the winter months in their costly city residence, but were out accidentally on the farm at this time, attending to some new dairy arrangements, and thus were easy of access. Mr. Kelso spied the rich equipage advancing up the avenue, and concluded that the riders had lost their way; but the carriage resolutely advanced, and actually stopped before his door. The ser- vant from behind leaped from his place, and, throwing open the carriage-door, asked for orders. "Inquire," said his mistress, " if Mrs. or Mr. Kelso is at home." In blank amazement, the last-named emerged from his hiding-place, and with much grimace and many bows assisted the most unexpected visitor to alight. Mrs. Kelso came flying into the parlor like a hen frightened from her nest-all in a flutter of amazement, only wonder- ing what she should do, to do like a ladyl She com- menced,-"Well, now, really this is redundant kind in you to come on this cold day. And really it gives me redundant pleasure to see you, Mrs. Allston; but I regret most redundant that you should find us in such poor trim. Take off your things, anyhow, and spend the day. I know it will give you redundant pleasure to excuse every- thing, as your visit is so, redundant unexpected." "I ought rather to be the apologist on this occasion," said the lady, "for visiting you in the country at this un- seasonable time of year, but my feelings are so much interested in a family who are tenants of yours, that I dared to hope you would excuse etiquette for the sake of humanity." Mrs. Kelso smirked, wrung her hands, waved her head,   80      DOINGS IN MARYANTD,  and replied, "Certainly, ma'am, certainly. I shall be, redundant happy to do anything you wish." Mr. Kelso, also assured the visitor that " anything he could do for her should be done in a high state of pleasure." The lady resumed: "1 I wish to come to the point at once, Mr. Kelso, and therefore promise to assume the debt of Mr. Douglas; but with respect to the admission of a black family into the house, that cannot be thought of for a mo- ment. I have already offered Mr. Douglas an asylum in my house, which he has thought proper to decline. But should you persist in introducing blacks into their little lodge, I shall carry him and the child away by force.?" Said Mr. Kelso, "Why, really, Mrs. Allston, though it is true I should like to have my rent, yet if I had thought that these people were friends of yours I would not have interfered with them in the least.1" Said the lady, "They are not friends of mine, sir,- only by the ties of humanity, and in that sense they are equally friends of yours. I never saw the people until the death of Mrs. Douglas made it imperative that some one of human kind should look in upon their misery. I much regret, however, that I did not make the acquaint- ance of Mrs. Douglas, for I infer she must have been a superior woman, to judge from the manner in which she has educated her daughter. Mr. Douglas, too, I find, is a gentleman, both by birth and education, but has unfor- tunately fallen a victim to a vice which bids fair to become a national one."  Mrs. Kelso interrupted,-"Oh, Mrs. Allston, Mr. Kelso is the very soul of generosity; indeed, his charities are redundant, and I am sure he will be as redundant willing to forgive the debt as you could be to pay it." "The cognizance of the world has a very sensible effect upon our charities sometimes," replied the lady, with a    OR MATILDA DOUGLAS.        81 feeling of scorn she could not resist. "This debt is but a trifle at most, and, to a gentleman of Mr. Kelso's means, nothing. Besides, the house was unfit for occupancy when Mrs. Douglas entered it; indeed, a person who would have quartered his blacks in such a place would not have been received in the society of the neighborhood; and when with her own hands she made it tolerable, the rent was raised beyond her ability to pay." A bright spot of red was perceptible upon the cheek of Mr. Kelso, but his lady did not appear to understand that any cens/ure was implied in Mrs. Allston's remarks, and went on to declare that the people should have redundant peace so far as they were concerned, "for Mr. Kelso," she said, "was the most redundant kind man in the world, and gave away more money in the course of a year than would be sufficient to support a large family." Mrs. Allston continued: "In the spring, when the weather is sufflciently warm to permit the removal of the invalid, I shall provide other quarters for him and the child, and in the mean time, I ask as a favor, that they may not be subjected to annoyance of any kind, as I promise to pay the rent so long as they remain at ' Old- fields.'" Mr. Kelso assured the lady that the people should not be subjected to any annoyance from  him; his greedy eyes glistened with delight when he heard her promise to pay the money. A few evenings after the interview  here detailed, this charitable man was in the city, and, with important bustle, preparing to attend a fashionable meeting called by fashionable people for a fashionable purpose, namely, to express svnypathy with the Laplanders. It seems the frigid zone had been cheered by an unusually vivid display of the aurora borealis, and the excessive bright-   82      DOINGS IN MARYAND, - ness reflected by the snow had affected the reindeer and given them a soreness of the eyes, which was for the time epidemic. By this most unusual occurrence, the scientific Laplanders had been deprived of a contemplated excursion to the North Pole, or at least the eagerly an- ticipated expedition had to be postponed. A meeting was called for Americans to express sympathy with their cool- headed and cool-footed brothers in a disappointment that affected not only themselves but the world; as it had been confidently expected that this party of explorers would not only bring home the North Pole, but Sir John Frank- lin with it. The meeting was called, and duly organized by placing Mr. Strokemyback in the chair, and a committee was ap- pointed to draft resolutions of condolence. Mr. Kelso- poor Mattie's persecutor for fifty dollars-arrived rather late for a correct understanding of the object of the meet' ing. Supposing, however, that nothing but money could possibly be wanted anywhere, he arose in the crowd, and, with a thousand fat and fashionable eyes flashing upon him, cried out, "Mr. Chairman, put down a hundred dollars for each of the brothers John and Thomas Kelso." Mr. Kelso was publicly pious as well as publicly chari- table. He prayed in public by weight much longer than that by which he weighed his beef; long weight and loud weight was the measure of his public prayers.  He thanked God that " he, humble Tom, was worthy to be - good and great." And, as an accompanying paean of praise to Heaven, he jingled the money in his pocket as he prayed. The Kelsoes are by no means an extinct race, or few in number, for of all the large bequests that astonish the world, how few spring from the principle which has for its motto, "Thou, God, seest me ;" but rather from that    OR MATILDA DOUGLAS.        83      j self-soothing emulgent, "Thou, world, look and behold me 1" And now we gladly take our leave of the Kelsoes. They are unpleasant people to be with, and never would have received even a passing notice from us, only that we could not set forth Mattie's indebtedness to Mrs. Allston, or the great merit of that most estimable woman, without allusion to those vulgar, purse-proud toadies whom to know is to abhor. CHAPTER      XVII. "TROUBLE LOVES A TRAIN." "O Death! death! death! thou art not half so cruel In thy destruction of the prosperous, As in not killing wretches that would die." SPRING has come, with its fragile, half-developed leaf, its tiny bud, its softened gale, and emerald hillside; with song of early bird and hum  of bee; with its violet and its snowdrop. The squirrel has left his log house, and the swallow his mud cabin by the brook, and gone forth to cater for existence. The sick man and the sad child have left the old field-house and gone forth to meet the world and battle in the unequal contest. They are located in the village; their friend has come nobly to her promise, and not a  house in all the neighborhood but has been visited in quest of patronage for the young teacher, and there she sits, surrounded by a  group of little, happy rosy faces. She has received orders, too, for needlework, more than she can fill. The day she divides between   84,      DOINGS IN MARYAND, labor with her pupils and attendance upon her father; and when evening shadows curtain the earth, when the lowing of the ox and the bleating of the sheep are no longer heard upon the hill, when the bird folds its wing and sleeps peacefully upon the bough, when even the indus- . trious little bee retires to its sweet -home to rest, Mattie  commences anew to labor. She draws patterns of grace. ful and beautiful design, which, with her needle, she erm- ! bodies into form. Patiently, lonely, she toils on, until the ; weary hours of darkness grow small and then grow large  again. "But what of that," she thinks, "if I nay but A i shield my father from want and obey my mother's dying ::s injunction-take care of him?"  It was astonishing to all how successful Mattie was as a teacher. Notwithstanding her extreme youth, she man-  aged her school with the utmost facility--and why? She ruled by love, and unassumingly.  She made no  distinction among her charge because of the adventitious circumstances of wealth and position. The poor laborer's little sunbeam, and the wealthy landlord's pride, were alike to her; hence respect preceded esteem. Baskets of the finest fruits, and bunches of the sweetest flowers, were daily laid at her shrine, evidences, these, of the idolatry of the little, loving, trusting, grateful hearts by which she was surrounded. Though her labor was protracted through the day and night, her income was extremely small,-so small, indeed, that months had elapsed ere she could afford to purchase for herself a shilling mourning-dress to wear in honor of her dear departed mother. But, for all her labor and for all her poverty, Mattie was not miserable; no heart can be completely wretched that is prompted to exertion by a high incentive. It was remarked that Mattie's love and solici- tude for her father grew stronger as his helplessness in-   OR MATILDA  DOUGLAS.       85 creased. His nervous system had been shattered beyond     M repair: the prostration now culminated, like the snapping of a string which leaves the instrument useless. The vul- ture Remorse, that constantly preyed upon his heart, aided   [ this lamentable consummation, and paralysis, that affected both mind and bodyv, supervened. Noble-hearted, self- sacrificincg Mattie! many long years of wearing toil and crushing heart-throbs are before thee. May the God of thy mother, in whom thou trustest with such childlike simplicity, help thee through!  And yet another blow is about to fall upon the child's defenseless head. An almost breathless messenger rushes into her presence with the news that her generous patron-   i. ess, her sweet counselor, her almost second mother, is stricken with disease, and now lies hopelessly at the point of death. Frantic with apprehension, the grateful girl flew to the bedside of her dying friend, and with con- vulsive agony kissed from her clammy lips the last faint gurgling breath. A contagious disease had broken out among Mrs. Allston's servants, and she, more anxious for their comn-  fort than her own safety, risked her life rather than that    they should be neglected, and thus she fell a victim to the generous impulses of her noble nature. And now she is laid in the earth by the side of Mattie's mother; together the child's two best friends repose, their much-loved dust mingling.  Would that we had to give to this woman of pure and holy life a more poetical death! would that, instead of plague-spot and delirious raving, she could have calmly sighed out her breath, redolent with prayer, amid the sweet flowers, the green woods, the blue sky, with the eagle hovering o'er to bear her noble soul aloft! Such was the 8   S6      DOINGS IXN MARYAND,     : death of D'Israeli's Nictous, than which a more poetical  was never penned. Bill's home has no charm for him, now that his mother is gone. His guardian wishes him to go -North to complete his education and improve his health. Bill is delighted : with the proposal, and comes to tell Mattie the news, and bid her farewell! I "Mattie," said he, "I am going aWay, perhaps forever, i certainly for years, because, after leaving college, I intend to travel, I intend to visit lands whose artistic achieve- ments shall both inspire and teach me; and I will sell every foot of land I possess, but that I will be master of L the art that is mistress of my heart, for now that myi mother is gone I have nothing to love but my pencil." Mattie replied, somewhat anxiously, "i Why, Bill, surely you will not sell your mother's grave?" "Oh, no! no! he replied, quickly, and coloring deeply, "certainly not! I will not sell the home-place, on which is the family graveyard, where your mother and mine are buried side by side; but if it be necessary I will part with everything else to secure that, the love of which burns into my very bones! And now, Mattie, as we may never see each other again, I want to take your likeness. A rough draft I know it will be, but I will finish it up as I improve in the profession. Your look in childhood will serve as a link in memory's chain to ,bind me to my boy- hood's days and (however I may roam) to the scenes and associations of my early home. I always intended to paint my mother's likeness; but, oh, the danger of delay 1 -what would I not give to have it now? But I will paint it yet: every line of her sweet face is engraved upon my heart, and when I am the painter I intend to be, I shall paint her as she was. The picture may appear ideal to   OR MATLDA DOUGLAS.         87 those who did not look upon her with my eyes; I care not; I shall paint her as she looked to me!" "And as she looked to me, too," said Mattie; "for your mother always appeared in my eyes to be the twin-angel of my own dear loved and lost; and now I am again motherless. Oh, Bill! what will become of me, without a lfriend on earth?'" CHAPTER      XVIII. A NEW ACQ'HUAINTANCE. "Oh, fear not in a world like this, And thou shalt know, ere long, Know how sublime a thing it is To suffer and be strong." MATTIE'S life is laborious and lonesome enough, now that the friends who were strength to her timid heart are gone. She is alone. Alone 1-none can tell the agony that word conveys but those who havefelt its meaning.. Amid all her afflictions, however, there is mercifully dispensed to her one blessing--a faithful servant. Let faithful Nannie's praise be sung wherever these pages open to the light. She was an Irishwoman, warm-hearted and true as ever came from that soil made worthy by the whole-souled generosity, by the nobility of nature, to which it gives birth. When Mattie was engaged in school, Nannie supplied her place by the bedside of her father, and thus relieved the mind of the child from an anxiety that would otherwise have been crushing. Mrs. Allston's death left a void in Mattie's circle that no society in the neighborhood could supply; and, oh, how her   , heart yearned for the companionship of books I "If I had   88      DOINGS IN MAR YAND, but a pleasant book with which to refresh my spirit when I am weary, how thankful I would be!"This thought the child often sighed to the winds; but she had now no firiendly ear into which to pour her complaint. Happily for her, the few books she had read were of a superior standard, and  thus the foundation of her literary taste was laid in strength and correct moral sentimenlts. Everything to youth are the books they read first. Mrs. Douglas was aware of this fact; and when her husband's valuable library was sold, by the aid of a neighbor she rescued from the general sweep a few choice volumes which she knew had been favorites with him in days long past and would be valuable in forming the mind and character of her daughter. These volumes Mattie had read until their contents were memorized; and now she pined for something new to read, something to divert her mind from its daily drudgery. As she sat in her school one morning, surrounded by her little charge, a visitor was announced. Mrs. Butterfield bustled in and introduced herself. i I have taken the liberty, Miss Douglas," she said, " to call upon you and invite you to visit a lady who is staying at our house; she is a teacher from the city, and has come out at the suggestion of her physician to recruit her health. She wishes to meet the society of the neighborhood, and especially to become acquainted with the village teacher." Mattie was alarmed, and began to beg off. "Oh, Mrs. Butterfield," she said, " you know I am such a recluse and have seen so little of society, and shall appear to such dis- advantage by the side of the elegant city teacher, that you will be ashamed of me yourself. You had better not pre- sent me."           V "Ob, never fear!" cried Mrs. Butterfield, courageously; "you can do as well as any of them, if you will only put it on. But you keep yourself back too much. Mrs. All-    o' MJ1ATILDA DOUGLAS.       89 ston told me you were as bright a girl as could be found; and she ought to know, because she was always used to grand society. So now you just put it on and come along." By putting on, Mattie understood her visitor to mean assuming, and she replied, "Why, Mrs. Butterfield, you would not respect me yourself if I should assume what is not my due, and set myself up with womanly airs." "Well, never mind, but come anyhow, and get acquainted with the lady, for I expect she is a wonderfully smart one; she has a prodigious sight of books; but the doctor says she must not read, only chase butterflies, and ride on horseback, and swing, and do all sorts of romping things; and so you see she wants a young girl to be company for her." At mention of the books, Mattie's eyes dilated; she exclaimed, clasping her hands, "Oh, will she let me read some of her books? I will run the risk of appearing a bumpkin, if she -will only let me read her books!" Mrs. Butterfield had found the kev to Mattie's heart; she at once opened the door. "Come," she said, "and I promise the books."  As soon as school was dismissed, Mattie donned the shilling black, and, with a bounding heart, set off to make her first visit of ceremony. Miss Bip, the city teacher, angular in appearance, with eye-glass raised, received the village nlaiden in her best style, evidently intending to strike the country girl with astonishment; but she was' rather taken aback after all for, although Mattie did not " put on," as Mrs. Butterfield advised, yet her manners were so natively refined without being in the least conventional, her bearing so dignified from very timidity, that Miss Bip was surprised, and eyed her as curiously as if she had been a foreign importation on exhibition. 8* 90      DUIN'S 1 IN MARYANAD,  "You are young for the profession," said Miss Bip. "My mother intended me for a teacher, but circum- i stances compelled me to enter upon the duties of the office much sooner than I had anticipated," replied the youthful instructress. "How do you like teaching?" inquired Miss Bip. "I would like it much better if I had more advanced pupils. I have only a little reading and spelling to teach, and then my pupils are so small I I can teach arithmetic, and grammar, and composition, but I have no opportunity to show all that I can teach, because the children are so small." "Why don't you go to the city, then? You could get larger pupils there,'" said Miss Bip. The suggestion flashed upon Mattie's mind like a reve- lation from heaven. She seemed lost in thought for some time, and then replied,- "I confess I never thought of that before. I thank you for mentioning it, as I expect there are plenty of books in the city." "Books!" echoed Miss Bip, with a shriek; "why, child, you could read all the books in creation for five dollars a year, by just taking a ticket in a public library."  "O--h!" said Mattie, in undisguised astonishment. "Besides," continued Miss Bip, "you could perhaps obtain medical aid, which would restore your father's   ] health."  The child, bewildered by the presentation of so many new and desirable objects, sat like one who had been    t in an instant petrified; or perhaps only struck dumb, like  Zacharias, by a heavenly visitor.             I "Could such things be? Why had Mrs. Allston never mentioned them? why bad she herself never thought of them?"Such were the fluctuating thoughts that passed and repassed through this young and inexperienced mind.    I "u-l lljub  lJUUL4AS.    91 What books would you like to read, and what have you read?" asked Miss Bip. "I have read the English Classics,-Johnson, Milton, Young, Goldsmith  "Shle was progressing with 'the list, when her interlocutor interrupted her, by exclaim- "Good gracious! why, you are a perfect antediluvian I nobody reads those musty old fogies these days; they are long since laid upon the shelf. I have heard that there were such books in the world, but I would not read them, for fear of being laughed at." "Excuse me, miss," said Mattie, coloring deeply, "but nmy father says those authors will never be disregarded or forgotten so long as the English language is spoken or read." "Your father has not mingled much in society lately, I suspect, and consequently he has not learned to supersede his antique notions with the modern and graceful impres- sions of the present golden age of literature. I hope, for your sake, however, that you will go to live in the city, and tlen you will get rid of your old-fashioned notions about books, and Vour old-fashioned dress, too, for I see yours is made in the style that was worn when my mother was a  child. /How exceeding savage are the tendencies of habitual country life I I do really expect that country- people would turn Indians again, and wear blankets, if it were not for the fact that a few reside in the city during the winter, and by this means get the rust rubbed off them- selves, and help, on their return, to modernize their neigh- bors." Mattie thought this flippant city lady very smart, but, somehow, so unlike Mrs. Allston. Mr. Butterfield now came in from the farm, accompanied by the neighboring physician, Dr. Bramble. The doctor   92      DOIRTGS IN MARYAAND,  was introduced, and immediately after tea was announced. Of course the unexpected guest was requested to stay to tea, and of course he stayed, as what Southerner ever shirks hospitality? He proved a very agreeable companion, and showed himself well read in all the light literature-of the day. Miss Bip and hiniself were perfectly at home in fashionable prose and poetry, and chatted away like chums at school. The conversation turned from works to their authors; the mlerits and moralities of each were freely dis- cussed; and, as the doctor had a good opinion of his own taste and judgment in the matter, he did not hesitate to favor his audience with a specimen of both. Said he, "Dickens is a philanthropist, and deserves a niche in the temple that enshrines Howard the good; he braved, the horrors of pestilence and prison for the sake of suffering  humanity, and Dickens, with equal heroism, descends into the slough of society, gropes among the vilest purlieus of pollution, and exhibits to the gaping crowd a gem ex- humed from the deepest filth; bears forth upon his pointed steel a ray of beauty from the darkest den. That he writes from nature, no one can doubt, for we need not go a hun- dred miles to find the counterpart of his Little Nell and her grandfather," said the doctor, glancing at Mattie. Her quick apprehension took in his meaning in an instant, and her face was scarlet. "And Bulwer," said Miss Bip; " what do you think of Bulwer?" "Alas for poor Bulwer!" said the sympathetic doctor; "he has a vast amount of sin to answer for; he makes the heart boil like a pot of pitch, and he has made many a poor shallow heart to boil over until caldron and con- tents were alike consumed. The foulest deeds are often the engendering of inaginations diseased and corrupted by literary association. The pure page, just issued from   OR MA TILDA DO UGLAS.        93  the mill, could not pass through the sewer unsoiled; neither can the spirit escape from the effects of immersion, whether the dip be oftenest in the waters of Siloam or in the ink of hell!"The eloquent doctor apostrophized. "Great is thy responsibility, thou man of power; it was thine to have placed thy fellows upon the Rock of Ages, or, to use one of thy own figures, upon a Sea of Wax, and thou hast chosen the latter."  Bowing gallantly to Miss Bip, the doctor continued: "A beautiful niche your own  sex deserve in the temple of pure and lofty literature, for women are among the best pen-painters of the present  day, and in this respect our country is not behind the world. However our men may rank in comparison with the literati of other nations, our female writers are not ex- celled, and therefore we are justly proud of our own Southworth, the nation's Fern, the world's Sigourney."' "Well, really, I am surprised to hear gentlemen extol Fern, for certainly she is severe upon your sex," said Miss Bip. "I admit she is," replied the doctor; "but when she ises her cutting steel in defense of oppressed women and helpless children, I pardon the passes she makes at the nonster man.", And thus the affable doctor and the self-esteemed city,  ady discussed the various authors of the day, quite pleasedj with the subject, with themselves, with the richly-spread ea-table, and just then with all the world; nor ever Ireamed of the volcano they were arousing in the heart of he silent child beside them. She scarcely dared to breathe, est she should lose a word of the conversation; her heart )eat high, her cheek flushed, her eyes sparkled.       I "I will go to'the city and read those books!" was the     ' bought that surged through her mind like the advancing  nd retreating tide upon the beaten beach.      , UU    "      DOINGS IN MARYAND,I CHAPTEIR    XIX. COGITATION AND DREAMNG. "While o'er my limbs Sleep's soft dominion spread, What though my soul fantastic measures trod O'er fairy fields, or mourned along the gloom Of pathless woods, or, down the craggy steep Hurl'd headlong, swam with pain the mantled pool." ON Mattie's return home from Mrs. Butterfield's house, she had to pass a marsh, along the margin of which grew the fern. She plucked a leaf, and, to conceal it from those who accompanied her, put it in her bosom. "They would call me silly," she thought; "I would not let them see it for the world." Arrived at home, and learning from Nan- nie that her father was sleeping sweetly and had not missed her, Mattie retired to her chamber to think and dream. The remarks of Miss Bip, as to the advantages of city life, had sunk deep into the heart of the perplexed child, and opened a new vista to her inexperienced vision. She seated herself on the side of her little bed, and, clasping her hands involuntarily in an attitude of prayer, began to muse. "If I could but go to that far-off city, near to which rolls the majestic ocean, and nearer still the noble bay, and through which pours a tide of knowledge while I perish here for want of the precious draught, how happy I would be! Oh, I would be-willing to endure privation and labor, if I could get but books and learn- ingl If I only knew some person to whom I could apply for advice and direction, I would go at once; but I know no one in all that vast multitude, except the Gilts,   OR MATILDA   DOUGLAS.      95 and I know very little of them, only I know they owe my father money, or an obligation of some kind, and surely they might assist me with their influence. They are rich; I suppose they have influence. I don't want their money, I only want work and books. Oh, I wish I could read about Little Nell and her grandfather."  At this stage of Mattie's musing she became extremely perturbed, her face flushed, her heart fluttered; the thought of being com- pared, if, indeed, only by implication, with the heroine of a book, was almost suffocatingt. Her thoughts still flowed. A I wonder why that Fanny Fern calls her writings ' Fern Leaves'?" She drew from her bosom the leaf gathered by the roadside, and threw it upon her pillow. "Dr. Bramble says Fanny Fern writes in defense of oppressed wonlen and helpless children. Well, God bless her, then, if she does."  The dispirited child, wearied by so many new and      l tangled thoughts, laid herself upon her little couch and pressed her pure cheek upon the fresh fern leaf. The Gilts alluded to in Mattie's soliloquy were a family whom she had once visited in company with her mother. They lived in the most ostentatious style, and of course moved in fashionable society; but there was a something in their history that would not bear the light, and it was from this mysterious something that arose the Douglas connection. Mattie knew it to be a money transaction, but under what circumstances they had become debtors to her father she had not then heard, or why such grand and evidently wealthy emnulators of gentility should refuse a just demand. Mattie had heard her mother allude to the subject once in conversation with her father; the bare mention seemed to frenzy him; he rushed from the house and did not return for weeks. After that Mrs. Douglas never named it more, but buried the secret, whatever it   96      DOIN'GS IN MARYAND, was, in her own murdered heart. It was previous to this X conversation that Mattie with her mother called upon  i Mrs. Gilt, who received them very graciously; but it was evident to even the child's perceptions that the object of the visit was not accomplished, for her mother left the house in tears and sighed all the journey home. As Mattie irresistibly sank into a sleep compelled by health and youth and exercise, strange fancies floated through her brain. She had set out for the city, she thought, and was lost in the woods. Nighttcame on, and she took shelter in a cave, where, to her astonishment, she found her father, who had come to look for her and  lost hinmself Then, in imagination, she 'was transported to the bank of a stream upon whose bosom cities floated  by like steamboats in a race. 1'lll risk it, or perish," thouht the resolute girl; and with a single bound she gained a city that was flying past. A man approached to' sell her books; lie offered all the literature of the age for a dollar, which she did not possess. Being un- willing to miss the books, she asked the man if he would take a cow for them, and, he consenting, she returned home for the cow. The creature submitted to be driven alongo quietly enough until she came to the top of a huge stair- case, which Mattie thought must be the library of which Miss Bip had spoken, when, suddenly turning upon lier pursuer, the enraged brute began to complain of ingrati- tude. Said the cow, "Have I not sustained your family, lo, these many years, and fed you from my blood when I had nothing in my bowels? And now you are going to give me away for a few scraps of paper which no one can either eat or drink." And here she made a furious onset with her horns, and pushed Mattie from the top to the bottom of the stairs. The troubled sleeper awoke with   OR MATILDA DOUGLAS.         917 the fright, and so vivid was the sense of danger that she actually felt her limubs to ascertain their sound condition. Mrs. Butterfield's cake was too rich for Mattie's stollmach, unaccustomed  to sucli dainties. Again she slept; and   l again she dreamed. This time she thought Mrs. Gilt was transformed into a pitch-fork, and the fork taking her- Mattie--upon its prongs, threw her to the top of a pile of books as high as a tree, from which she came rolling, thumllping,  bumping, splashing into a stagnant pool that lay in filthy, fetid green at the base. She arose from her troubled sleep in the morning but little refreshed, and somewhat discouraged by the horrors of the night; but when fresh air and cheerful sunshine had dissipated the nightniare, the longing for books returned with even greater force, and increased until it became an appetite that would take-no denial; and the poor little lonely heart cried, "Oh, if I had some one to go with me to that wonderful city where everything is to be had,-- doctors, books, companionship, everything that I want. and cannot get!" Miss Bip had prolnised to return Mat- tie's call, and she now anxiously awaited the expected visit, intending to consult the city lady on city matters; but, alas for human hopes, instead of the visitor came the news that she had returned home without so much as a word of parting salutation. Again thrown back upon herself, with none to make a suggestion for the future, hattie was like a ship becalmned, without either wind or steam; and though Miss Bip was not much better than a broken oar, yet even that had floated beyond her reach. But the girl's feelings had reached a climax, and now came the stern resolve of self-help. "I shall go to the city and seek out the Gilts. Perhaps they will not ridicule my old-fashioned dress, as Miss Bip 9                   i   98       DOINGS IN' MARYAND,           ! did, and, if they do, I don't care, so that I can get help for mv suffering father and books for myself." 'Making an arrangement with her pupils, and enjoining upon Nannie to be; if possible, still more faithful in her absence, the young pilgrim took up her lean carpet-bag and walked to the cars that should convey her to the--as she thought-city of refuge., CHAPTER XX. THE GILTS. "In the flash of her glance were passion and pride, In the curve of her lip there was haughty contempt, As she spoke of the power to riches allied, Of the evils and pains from which she was exempt." THE Gilts were a stylish family; they lived in a stylish house in a stylish part of the city, the widow Gilt and her two stylish daughters. Mattie arrived at their stylish residence, carpet-bag in hand, dressed in her'shilling mourning dress, with sun- bonnet of the same material, and, ringing the front-door bell, inquired if Mrs. Gilt was at home. The door-ser- vant, supposing her to be a person in quest either of em- ployment or charity, turned upon her an angry scowl for ringing the bell with so much confidence, and had a mind to send her to the alley for entrance; however, she did not, but sullenly commanded her to stand in the hall until she should see if her mistress chose to be at home. "Madam," said the servant, " there is a person here who asks to see you. I think she wants to hire, or else she is begging."   OR MAT4 T[ILDA DOUGLAS.       99 "In either case I don't wish to see her; send her off," said the mistress. The servant returned to Mattie and informed her that Mrs. Gilt was engaged, and did not wish to be interrupted. Mattie made no reply, but, drawing from her pocket an old-fashioned silver card-case, took from it a slip of paper, and, writing her name upon it, directed the servant to hand it to her mistress. Mrs. Gilt glanced at the name, and screamed out, "Wly, as I live, it is Matilda Douglas! You stupid goose, you said it was a beggar!"  And, flying into the hall, she overwhelmed Mattie with a profusion of apolotgies. That such stylish people as the Gilts should have such plain acquaintances as this girl with carpet-bag in hand, was a great mystery to the door-servant. Said Miss Belinda, the elder of the stylish daughters, "Now, ma, for Hleaven's sake, don't bring that ill-dressed girl into the parlor this evening, for I looked into her car- pet-bag, and she has not even a chancge of dress; and some of the most fashionable of our acquaintances-the Grand- spirts and the Spangles--will be here, and we would cer- tainly lose caste were we to present such people as she." "Take care, Belinda," said the mother: (' you know there is danger in this case. That girl could ruin us. You had better treat her politely, and not irritate her, or she may give to the wind the charge her father has against us, and, whether true or false, the bare mention of such a story, in connection with our name, would forever banish us from society." "I hate her!" passionately exclaimed Miss Belinda, " for, although she dresses no better than a servant, she bows like a princess, and is as grand in her manners as a queen." Said Caroline, who took delight in teasing her ill-natured sister, "I believe you are afraid to compete with her in the   100      DOINGS IN MARYALAND, parlor. I intend to dress her up in my black moire-antique, and present her. I hope she will catch Frank Grandspirt, and cut you out." Said Mrs. Gilt, "As to her manners, she inherits them from her mother, and, to do the child justice, I really don't think she is conscious of her elegant and high-bred bearing; but you need not fear a rival in her; I shall keep her close enough, while she remains. I wonder what on earth has brought her to the city, anyhow? It cannot be to injure us, or she would not have sought our hospitality." After tea Mrs. Gilt said to Mattie, in her sweetest man- ner, A"My dear, your mourning is too deep for fashionable society; you and I will spend the evening together, when we can have a nice chat, all to ourselves." And, taking the child by the hand, the fashionable lady led the way to her own chamber. Mattie was not entirely deceived; she felt that it was rather the shabbiness of her mourning, than its depth, which caused her rejection from the parlor; but being weary with travel, and heart-sick with the scornful airs of Miss Belinda, she thankfully accepted the offer of spending the evening in retirement. So great was Mrs. Gilt's anxiety to know Mattie's object in visiting the city, that she could scarcely restrain herself from betraying the most vulgar curiosity, and seized the first opportunity to put to her a series of worm-it-out questions. "How could you, my dear, make up your mind to leave your father, in his helpless condition, and to the care of servants only, when he is scarcely able to tell whether he is properly treated or not?" inquired the bland lady of fashion. "I have every confidence in Nannie," replied Mattie, "and the case is urgent. I am extremely anxious to ac- coniplish the object of my visit to the city." "Pray, may I ask what is your object, my dear?"   OR MATILDA DOUGLAS.        101 "It is to obtain a school." "A school!" "Yes, ma'am; the one I teach is not remunerative, and I wish to live in the city, on account of books, and the means of completing my own education: besides, some persons think perhaps ny father could obtain medical aid, which would restore him to'health. For these various reasons I am anxious to live in the city, and I came to you, thinking that a lady of your position and influence might assist me in obtaining pupils, or at least vou would advise me for the best." Mrs. Gilt looked sharply at Mattie when she called her a lady of position and influence, but, finding no sign of satire or irony on her countenance, the child's manner being perfectly earnest, honest, and truthful, she proceeded to answer. "My dear, you are taking too much upon yourself; you have no idea of the difficulties you will have to encounter in all you propose. You cannot get pupils from the circle in which I move, unless you go to them as a governess." "That I cannot do," said Mattie, quickly, "because I cannot leave my father." "You see, then, dear child, how impossible it is for me to assist you, because the children of the high class, with whom I associate, all go to fashionable schools, except such small ones as are taught at home; and it is the cus- tom of society to disregard those who are struggling, and to patronize such as are already replete with patron- age; therefore you must have prestige in the world of teachers, or you could not get a single pupil among wealthy people." 1 "Perhaps I could get them among poor people, then?" said the anxious inquirer. "I am not acquainted with the poor class," replied the 9*                  I   102      DOINGS INk' MARYAND, lady of fashion, contemptuouslyv; "but I ascertain from the newspapers that poor children all go to the public schools, and they are supported by the city. That, of course, shuts you out from patronage in that quarter, as poor people niust regard cheapness in education, as in everything else, a primary requisite." "Could I not get a situation in the city schools, then?" said the eager candidate. "I would try very hard to please." "You could not, without very decided help from a prom- inent politician, or the friends of politicians, and, as you are a stranger, without influence in the political world, you could not get a single vote, though I am entirely convinced of your ability to fill such a position. Your motlher was a woman of fine education, and I am certain she has not neglected yours. My advice to you, then, is to remain in the country, and get along the best you can, for the pres- ent, and should I hear of anything that would benefit you, I will let you know." Poor Mattie's heart sank within her at sight of the picture presented by Mrs. Gilt. Just then the rich tones of the piano, accompanied bv a sweet voice from the far- off parlor, fell upon her ear, and old familiar strains brought back memories of the sweet, sad voice of her dear departed mother. Mattie could hear no more, and requested permis- sion to retire for the night. The request was readily granted, and she was shown into a chamber almost Oriental in its splendor. She surveyed the luxurious comfort of the place, and could not help contrasting it with the poor cottage-chamber in which her father was laid; and yet his money had purchased all this,--money, too, that had been fraudulently obtained, and the Gilts knew it; though they refused to assist the child to earn a crust for herself and the defrauded man. They feared to let her breathe the   OR MATILDA   DOUG LAS.     103 same atmosphere with themselves, lest she might taint it with a word of truth. When Mattie was disposed of for the night, Mrs. Gilt dressed and went into the parlor,-excusing her late ap- pearance by saying "she had been in attendance upon a sick servant, for whose life she was apprehensive. "When the company had retired, Mrs. Gilt hastened to inform her daughters of Mattie's object in visiting the city. "She wishes to get a school," said the mother, " and requests my aid in procuring pupils." Miss Belinda was up in a moment. "I hope to Heaven, ma, you are not so green as to bring that girl into our set, or place her in a position where she can injure us by repeating the story her father chooses to originate about mine, who is not here to defend himself and his family from the aspersions of a wretch who pro- fesses to have been his benefactor." "Of course I shall not,'" said the -mother; "but how are we to get rid of her? That is the question. I am afraid she will talk to the servants about us; and yet if I bring her into my room to sleep, she might think I was watcllhing her, and out of pure revenge set afloat the story of your father's misfortunes in the old country, our change of name, and all the horrid vicissitudes of fortune that we have experienced. I wish we were rid of her now and forever P" Said Caroline, who really had more principle than all the rest put together, "I don't believe she would talk to the servants,. or out of revenge try to injure us. I like that girl; and if we owe her father and herself anything, we ought to pay it, because they stand more in need of it than we do." "It would inconvenience us to pay it," said Mrs. Gilt, glancing at Belinda. '( We would have to reduce our style of living." \ 1   104     DOINGS IN MARYAND, Belinda blazed, brought down her .hand with -violence upon the table, and exclaimed, "I would rather die than to descend one step in the scale of fashionable life! What is life without fashion, and how can fashion be upheld without monev? Ma, whenever you decide to reduce our style of living, just let me know, and I will commit suicide and be done with it; for if I can't marry Frank Grandspirt I want to die, and of course the Grandspirts are not going to marry into an unfashionable family." Said Caroline, "I would not rather die than live un- fashionably; I would rather do justice than live splendidly; but I am in the minority here, because Belinda is equal to a dozen, and ma always sides with Belinda; but one thing I will do, and that is pay that money, if it be ever in my power, and remove the stain from my father's memory. " Said Mrs. Gilt, emphatically, "We deny the debt. Mr. Douglas tried to fasten the charge of dishonesty upon your father, but we deny the charge." 6"I thought," said Caroline, "my father acknowledged it upon his death-bed, and directed the money to be paid." Mrs. Gilt became very red in the face, and told Caroline if ever she addressed such language to her again she would banish her from her presence forever. The ladies in going to their chamber had to pass the one appropriated to Mattie. "Let us look in upon her," said Belinda; "I expect she is now in confab with a servant." They entered. The child was sleeping sweetly, her pure cheek resting upon her little dimpled hand, the picture of unconscious innocence. "I wish I could burn her up alive," said Belinda, ad- vancing the night-lamp to the fine drapery that surrounded the bed. "Are you mad?" cried Caroline, snatching the lamp from her reckless sister,   OR MATILDA DOUGLAS.        105 "I would burn the contents of the room to get rid of the hateful brat," she said, in a low and hissing voice. i"Come," said the mother, "no more of this nonsense, Let us go." CHAPTER    XXI. CHANGE. "Kind sleep affords The only boon the wretched mind can feel, A momentary respite from despair." THE fashion and elegance of the chamber appropriated to the young traveler, however such things migrht solace Miss Belinda, who, by her own account, loved fashion more than life, brought no joy to Mattie's troubled spirit. Yet not a pang of envy crossed her breast; she never, for a moment, wished the comfort of the Gilts less. She only sighed for a humble home, where she could procure whlat her father and herself would need,-and procure it by the labor of her hands and brain.  Mrs. Gilt had shown every avenue to labor closed, yet, to Mattie's mind, a rich field of labor lay all about; and oh for one friendly hand to open the gate! But alas for the helpless child of pov- erty, with none to care for her I Driven thus from every hope of human agency; as a last resource, the child again prayed, Ad God of my nmother, help nme 1"When she had ;'arrived at this stage of feeling, and was thus enabled to roll her burden upon the strong, then came calm repose, and refreshing sleep sat sweetly on the slumberer's lids. At breakfast, next mlorning, Mrs. Gilt again opened the subject of Mattie's visit, and urged upon her an immediate   106      DO .V GS IN MAR YANVD, return to the country, trying to excite her fears for the safety of her father in her absence. Said the lady of fashion, "I am' quite certain, from what you tell me of his condition, that he cannot live long, and then you will be at liberty to accept the situation of governess ; in the mean time, it is dangerous for vou to be absent from him for a single hour, as there is no telling at what moment death may supervene." The tears rushed to -Mattie's eyes. She sobbed out, "Oh, I would be so unhappy if my father were to die! I would rather work for him all my life; and as you say there is dangrer of his sudden death, like that of my mother, I will return home by the next train of cars." She arose from the table, the breakfast sticking in her throat, by reason of her fears for her father and the scornful looks of Miss Be- linda, and remarked to Mrs. Gilt, "I will walk out and see the city, while I am waiting for the train." When Mattie left the room, Miss Caroline remarked, "Ma, it is a shame to let that child go about town with that calico sun-bonnet on. Do give her a bonnet." Replied the mother, "Well, if you can find a bonnet in the old-clothes-closet, give it to her; I have no objection." An old mashed-up bonnet, that had been tossed about the garret floor ever since the familv had ceased to mourn fashionably for Mr. Gilt, was found, and a crape veil, used to dust-the parlor, was shaken out, and tied upon the bon- net. Thus equipped, Mattie sallied forth to view the town. Mrs. Gilt's residence was situated in the most fashion- able part of Madison Street. As you descend the hill, on that street, you come abruptly upon a streaml called "The Falls," and this stream divides the city into two parts, designated Up-town and Old-town. Cross this stream on Madison Street, and you emerge immediately from ele- gance and ostentation, into the humble and unpretending   OR MATILDA DOUGLAS.       107      j locality of laborious life. The small dwelling of the me- , ll chanic, the smaller one of the laborer, the wretched hovel of the mendicant, and the prison of the felon, all meet you, with one broad stare. Yes, reader, those stately mansions   of Mount-Monument Place keep vigil day and night, in     j sight of wretchedness and despair, in sight of agronized  hunger and hardened villainy, nor ever blink with sorrow  1 at the sight.                        I Mattie, who, as we stated before, was entirely unac- quainted with the city, by chance strolled into this loca- : tion of humbled humanity, and was astonished at the change so abrupt from grand to mean. It was now ten l o'clock in the morning, and the street was filled with dirty, ragged children. Mattie stopped to look at them; she had never seen so many children together before. "A school in the street," thought Mattie. Involuntarily, she asked herself, Why are these children here?-and, being un- able to solve the problem, she asked them. "Because we haint got nowhere else to go," said a dirty, rosy-faced fellow. "Why do you not-go to school?" she asked. "We haint got no school worth a-goin' to," replied the same robust urchin. "Are there no public schools in this part of the city?"  asked Mattie. "They haint good for nothin'; nobody don't learn nothin' in 'emr; mother says it haint worth a-wearin' our trousers out a-settin' thare.1" "Are there no private schools in the neighborhood?" she inquired. "None as I knows on," replied the same spokesman. Mattie turned to walk away; a sign on a shutter at- tracted her attention: "ROOMS TO RENT. INQUIRE WITHN." "Why may I not rent these rooms, and have a school    i   108     DOINGS IN MARYAND, with these children?"Mattie asked herself. Actuated by some mysterious impulse, she knocked at the door. A woman, with an infant in her arms, answered the summons. "I wish to inquire about the rooms," said Mattie. "Walk in," replied the woman; "I can give you all the information necessary; but who is it that wants the rooms?" "Myself, na'am." "Yourselfl Why, child, what do you want with rooms?" "I want one for my father and one for a school-room." The woman pondered. "I don't know whether or not my husband would rent the rooms for a school; and, besides, where do you expect to Set scholars from?" "Out of the street, ma'am. I see plenty of children playing in the street; they tell me they do not go to school." "Yes, there are enough children in the street at all times to make a school; but would they come? and, if they did, would you get paid for your trouble?"' "I expect I would, ma'am; because I would try very hard to bring them on, and when their parents were pleased with their learning I think they would pay me." "Yes, child, if -they had it to pay with, I dare say they would; but this is a poor part of the city; the people about here have not much money to spare for the educa- tion of their children, it is as much as they can do to live." "The prospect is a gloomy one," replied Mattie, sadly; "but yet I would like to try it, because I can see no other." "How could a child like you keep a school?" asked the woman, though not unkindly. "I do keep a school," replied the child.   OR MATILDA DOUGLAS.       109 "Have you no one to help you?"              I "No, ma'am, I have none to help me; my father is sick  i and my mother is dead." "Poor child l" exclaimed the woman, and she pressed the babe in her arms still closer to her bosom. She mused  awhile, and then said, "Well, when my husband comes home to dinner I will ask him about it, and if he is will- ing I will rent you the rooms. I will assist you in getting pupils, but I cannot promise you the pay; you will have to risk that."                       i "I thank you," said Mattie; "I will walk about the  city in the mean time, and call again after twelve o'clock." ! The man who occupied this humble dwelling was a plasterer by trade; the woman and child referred to con-  , stituted his entire family, and, to reduce expenses, he rented a part of the house, small as it was. When applied to for the rooms for the purpose named, the husband objected on  i account of the noise and inconvenience to his wife; but  the wife was greatly prepossessed in favor of the young teacher, and pleaded for the privilege of renting her the  i rooms. Said she, "John, think of it before you refuse.   1 We don't know what is before ourselves; I may be dead    ' and you sick, and our sweet little Molly have no home for , l herself and you."  Honest John's eyes moistened at the bare supposition of such a thing, and he replied, "Well, do as you please, Mary; you will have the trouble with the noisy little vaga-  bonds; I am only home when school will be out, so it does not matter to me."  Said Mary, "It is respectable to have a school in the   i house, and these people don't seem like common people; the girl's manners are so sweet and ladylike, and yet soil natural. I should like to know who they are, anyhow,"  10  ' I   "O     DOINGS IN MARYAND, "Where will she get pupils from?" asked the man; "the people about here don't send their children to school." "She thinks she can induce people to send, because she intends to teach so faithfully," replied Mary. "Well, let the poor girl have a chance, then," said John, as he snatched up his hat, kissed the baby, and strided off to his work. Mattie returned according to promise ; she felt as if her destiny was suspended upon a hair; all her soul was in her eyes as they rested upon the countenance of the woman. "I like the looks of you," said the woman ; " you don't seem like low people, and I will take you into my house and do the best I can to get you a school." Mattie's heart leaped high within her, and overflowed with gratitude to the kind-hearted woman, though plain in speech, and she replied, "Indeed, ma'am, you shall have no cause to regret taking me into your house, for I con- sider it evidence of great kindness of heart to thus receive a stranger without recommendation." "I want you to make me one promise," said the woman. "I will do anything in my power to oblige you," replied Mattie. "Well, then, I want you to educate my little Molly, here (holding out the babe), and make her a lady with sweet manners, like yourself." "I will," replied the young educator,-smiling through her tears, and, kissing the babe, bade farewell to the amia- ble mother. As soon as Mattie had left the house of Mrs. Gilt, that lady entered into conversation with her housekeeper on the subject which she knew was being discussed in her establishment.   OR MATILDA DOUGLAS.        1" Said Mrs. Gilt to Mrs. Paste, "That strange-looking girl that has bolted upon us so rudely is the deranged daughter of an English nobleman. My husband and her father were like brothers in the old country; but his, her father's, dissipation caused his friends to disown him, and his wife and daughter went deranged in consequence of the reverse of fortune." As Mrs. Gilt well knew would be the case, this story was soon repeated in the kitchen, and the servants were dreadfully alarmed at the thought of being in contact with a " mad woman!" Said Sam, the waiter, "If she am 'ranged, she talk more sense at de table den de rest on em. I don't believe she 'ranged at all; she only poor 1" But when Mattie re- turned to say farewell to the Gilts (and she determined it should be forever), Pattie, the cook, ran through the house looking for her little grandchild, a bright mulatto that played at pleasure, and conveyed it to its mother for safe custody until the crazy girl should leave. "Keep dis ere chile, you; dat dare crazy gal might 'vour it!" said the grandmother to the mother. Mattie did not mention to the Gilts the fact that she had rented rooms, but quietly took leave of this by no means uncommon class of snobs-the Gilts. e t   "2      DOINGS IN MARYAND, CHAPTER XXII. HUGH HAGGIS. ", Trust not those cunning waters of his eye, For villainy is not without such rheum, And he long traded in it, makes it seem Like rivers of remorse and innocency."' A CERTAIN nation, wise in council, and humane in law, except a little plague-spot here and there on the statute- book, in order to get certain fellows out of the cormunity, and yet make them of use to the world, very properly sends them on voyages of discovery. This method of punishment is far better thanbthat which shuts up in filthy prisons strong hearty men, there to rot out their wretched lives, engender pestilence, and send death floating over all the land. A gentleman of the nation alluded to, had a servant whose name heads the chapter. This servant had acquired, and continued to practice, such propensities of appropria- tion, as to make it necessary for the good of society, that he should take the voyage. Being an adept, however, of the Jack Sheppard class, he managed to elude his ene- mies,-the friends of honesty,-and, by virtue of his villainy, to escape the shackles of the prison-ship, and thus without indebtedness to the crown for either passport or passage, to make his way to America. The father of this fellow had lived and died in the employ of the father of our un- fortunate Mr. Douglas. This circumstance occasioned the boys to be much in each other's society; living on the same farm, they, as children, played together until the   OR MATILDA DOUGLAS.        113  ever-surging tide of time threw them asunder,-Douglas   ! to go to school, Haggis, upon the death of his father, to go to service in a distant part of the country. As boys, these two never met again, but, when long years had passed, and they were matured by time, they met in a street in New York City. Mr. Douglas, in the new world, had heard nothing of the career of Hugh in the old; but, alas I Hugh had heard over and over again the -details of the reckless career Mr. Douglas was pursuing,-one which must, as all knew, eventuate in ruin. Borne upon the breeze, across the trackless ocean, came the mournful sound--"all is not welll All is not well with the loved ones far away l"    i Both for his sake, and that of his much-esteemed wife, strenuous efforts were made to-induce the wanderer to return to the bosom of friends and country, where the loving vigilance of those jealous for his good, it was hoped, would act as a restraint upon him, and check his mad career. "No, no, no I I will never return to my friends worse than I left them i" was his persistent reply. - The wily Hugh knew enough of all this to decide his actions and induce him to a course of villainous manipulation. He determined to seek out Mr. Douglas, and fasten upon him as the milk-snake is said to fasten its vile jaws upon the udder of the innocent cow, and when it has exhausted her milk, drink her blood. The bigger devils' better luck favored him even in this resolve, for a few days after landing in New York he met Mr. Douglas in the street. The family likeness was so strikingly displayed in his majestic mien that the villain, sharpened by long practice, knew him at a glance, though he had not seen him since he was a boy,-but he knew he was a Douglas, and, ap- proaching, claimed his acquaintance. 10*   "4     DOINGS IN MARYAND, "Why, my young master, have you so entirely forgot- ten the playmate of your childhood?-the Hugh Haggis that drew you from the run, when you fell from the nut- tree?"- Said Mr. Douglas, "I remember well the boy Hugh Haggis, but I should never have taken the pale-faced, crafty-looking creature before me, to be the same rosvy, romping fellow that sported with me on my father's lawn, that followed at our heels when we rode a-hunt, fleet as the hounds, and always in at the death. Can it be that you are the same Hugh Haggis?" "The same in person, my master, but not the same in heart. The world has dealt hardly with me, Master Douglas, and I am pale-faced from care, and crafty-look- ing, as you are pleased to express it, from necessity; for I am even now on a chase, flying before my creditors, an outcast from my country, because of a few paltry debts. You know, sir, that a man in my station in life could get but little credit, and yet for that little I would now be rotting in a prison had I not succeeded in making my escape." And here Hugh put his hands to his face and actually wept. Mr. Douglas was moved with compassion, moved even to sadness, and he replied, "Well, Hugh, I think it would have been better for both you and myself if we had remained children; we were happy then: neither of us has gained much by manhood." Hugh saw by this childish remark, and the maudlin ex- pression of his eye, that Mr. Douglas was even then under the influence of liquor, and he determined to follow up his advantage. "Will you take me for a servant, Mr. Douglas? I will take care of your horses, drive your carriage, wait on table, blacken your boots, or do anything you wish, if you will only take me into your employ."   OR MATILDA DOUGLAS.        115 A flush of pride and shame mounted to the cheek of Douglas, and he replied, "I am not able to pay you much, Hugh, for I am not so well off now as when I left home, and no doubt you can command situations that would be more profitable to you than any I could offer, and thus enable you the sooner to pay your debts." "I would rather serve you, Master Douglas, because of my love for your family and of our boyhood's memories, so that if you will consent, I will not be particular about the pay or the price; give me anything you please, only shelter me from my pursuers, for they will be after me like a pack of hounds; and do not call me by the old name, but call me Dan Drummond, or anything you please, ex- cept the old name!" Mr. Douglas never for a moment suspected the truth, and he remarked,-"Why, 'it is strange that for a few debts you should be thus unmercifully persecuted?" "I have an enemy I I have an enemy, who has tried to ruin me; for years he has been trying to ruin me," said Hugh, seemingly much excited. "Poor fellow I Well, then, I will try and protect you; so here, Dan, take this order to Nelson & Co., and bring to my house the articles named in it," said Mr. Douglas, laughing at the change of name. "And here is the direc- tion to my house, and be certain to have these things brought home this evening, especially the wine, brandy, and cigars, for I am going to have some hearty whole- souled fellows with me to-night, and you may attend us, and give yourself out as my butler, waiter, or anything you please." Hugh, in his new home, soon made himself as indispen- sable to Mrs, Douglas as to her husband. He was not long in finding out the haunts of the latter, and would go in quest of him in the dead hours of the night, and bring   "6      DOINGS IN MARYAND, him safely home. This affectionate care won the good opinion of the mistress, and the position of general facto- tum of the establishment was conferred upon this seem- ingly devoted servant. He went to market, he went to store, and, oh, fatal confidence, he went to bank. Hugh's object was now attained, and he proceeded to wind up affairs and make his master serviceable to him on a grand scale. He approached Mrs. Douglas first. "Madam," said he, "I am in a continual sorrow on account of my wife and little ones at home. I send them all my wages, and my wife works with her needle, yet we can never hope to be united as a family again unless I receive assist- ance, and I have none to whom I can apply except your- self." "What can I do for you, Hugh?" inquired Mrs: Douglas, in some surprise. "I wish you, madam, to ask Master Douglas to lend me sufficient money to bring over my family, and, as my wages will not support a family, I want him to let me have the price of a little grocery store down-town, the good-will and fixtures of which are to be sold. I will work hard and pay as soon as I can, but I have no security to give except my honor I My wife is a very clever woman, and could make a figure in the world if she had the chance; but, with none to lend us a helping hand, our case is desperate." "Your children are small, I think you said?" "Yes, ma'am and both girls. " "Well, I shall talk to Mr. Douglas about your request. How much money do you require for the purpose named?" "I can bring out my family, set up housekeeping on a small scale, and purchase the little shop I mentioned, for about nine hundred dollars, ma'am." When Mrs. Douglas found her husband sufficiently sober to talk on business subjects, she mentioned Hugh's request,   OR MATILDA DOUGLAS.       11      ; gently hinting at the propriety of spending some money in a benevolent cause, whence, like bread cast upon the water, it might return in after-davs; but being spent as it now was, the only harvest it could bring would be that of tears. Mr. Douglas did not want to hear remarks of this kind, and, to silence his wife, he assented to what he thought would gratify her benevolent propensities, but remarked to her at the same time, "I have strong suspicions of that fellow's honesty; on various occasions he has chiseled me out of change, and I have observed other signs about him that I do not like; but as he seemed to be such a favorite with you, I have said nothing on the subject. His father was an honest fellow, but his mother was a great villain, and I fear Hugh has inherited her character."7 Said Mrs. Douglas, "Could you not take security upon the store until he pays for it?" "Lord, wife!" he exclaimed, "would you have me act like a Jew money-lender? If I do the fellow a favor I shall do it like a gentleman." Mr. Douglas was a princely-hearted fellow; he had but one failing,-an inability to deny himself the pleasures of jovial companionship and the cup. Generous at all times, he was doubly so when under the influence of generous wine ; those who approached him for a favor then, were sure of sticcess. This Hugh had noted with reference to future action, and the opportunity, alas, was but too soon afforded. A few nights after this conversation with his wife about Hugh, every word of which Hugh had heard, Mr. Douglas was in fine spirits,-spirits flowing in and spirits flowing out. It was late; he was alone with his bottle, Mrs. Douglas having retired. Hugh approached him on the subject of the loan. Said the master in reply, "Mrs. Douglas has mentioned   "8      DOINGS IN MARYAND, your request to me, Hugh, and I dare say I shall lend you the money." "I knew you were a gentleman, every inch of you V'z exclaimed Hugh, excitedly, and, crouching down, embraced the knees of his victim ; then, rushing from the room, he soon returned with a bowl of hot punch, foaming and fra- grant. "Now, my master," said he, " here is a delicious draught; drink this to make you sleep sweetly, and I will carry you to bed as gently as if you were an infant." Mr. Douglas drank the contents of the' bowl, and was then about finished and ready for use. Hugh produced writing- materials. "Now, master, just write me the check for the money; but a gentleman like you would scorn to say nine hundred; say nine thousand, and set your poor servant afloat in the world." Mr. Dougdas attempted to speak, but only hiccuped; Hugh put the pen in his hand and the check-book before him. Mr. Douglas attempted to write, but could not guide his hand. Hugh put his hand on that of his victim, and, thus controlled, the poor hand had no will of its own, but humbly wrote whatever the tyrant that sat upon it dic- tated; and thus nine thousand was written instead of nine hundred. Mr. Douglas was then conveyed to bed, where he safely reposed until the noon of the next day. As soon as the bank opened the next morning, Hugh presented his check. The first customer was Hugh that morning, and blithe as a lark. "Why," said the banker, "Mr. Douglas has drawn out all his money except a few hundreds; but, as you are in the habit of attending to his bank business, I suppose it is all right.'"         \ "He has purchased a piece of property," said Hugh, "and wants this money to pay for it."   OR MATILDA DOUGLAS.        19 "A transfer might have been made, perhaps," said the banker; " but Mr. Douglas knows no more of business than a child." Hugh deposited the precious wallet in his breast-pocket, and, taking the next train of cars, was soon out of reach of Mr. Douglas and his second sober thought. The mis- creant had heard of a place down South called Rogue's Harbor, on account of the protection which the laws gave to strangers, and thither he bent his steps. Being unable to find the place, however, without inquiry, which might lead to detection, he dropped into Marvland, and from an advertisement, finding an opening for business, Arab-like, pitched his tent. Hoping that a brilliant name might daz- zle his pursuers, and help to elude pursuit, he changed his last cognomen of Drummond into Gilt, and thus the Gilts stand confessed in all their brazen greatness. Hugh Hacggis, alias Drummond, alias Gilt, was suc- cessful in business, became a wholesale merchant, made a fortune, built a palace in the park, died a rich man, and left a fashionable family,-the widow Gilt and her two fashionable daughters. Now that we have given a succinct account of the fash- ionable Gilts, we return to the unfortunate Douglas, and his unfashionable daughter. i    120      DOINGS IN MARYAND, C HAPTER    XXI II. JOURNEY. a "Man, though limited By fate, may vainly think his actions free, While all he does was at the hour of birth, Or by his gods or potent stars, ordained." THE die is cast; Mattie has disposed of the little stock her father possessed,-the old horse, the cow, a few pigs and chickens. The money thus obtained will defray the expense incurred by removing the family to the city. To the interrogations of patrons and well-meaning inquirers, who considered the step of doubtful propriety, she replied,- "I go to the city because I feel impelled by an impulse which I cannot resist. I want books and knowledge for myself, and medical aid for my father; and I want these things so much that I have no rest for my spirit night or day. My hungry heart is continually crying, craving, and reaching forth into the unknown future. Like a bird that is trvingD to fly and cannot, so rises and falls my soul as bope and fear alternately predominate. I believe I could not live another year in this fluctuating state of mind." Said a shrewd old farmer, "As to knowledge, you may perhaps get more than will be good for you, young and inexperienced-and unprotected, too, as you are." "I am lonely, it is true, but God will protect me," re- plied the child, that was always a child and always a woman: a woman, because of her steady habits and serious care; a child through life, because of the purity   OR MA TILDA DO UGLAS.       121 and simplicity of her character. "God will protect me," she replied, with the most earnest and simple faith. Faith in what, dear reader? In the words of a dead mother l Think of that, mothers, when talking to your children. And kind old Nannie said " she would go to the ends of the earth with the child, and sure; for what was the use of her staying all alone by herself in the country, where there was no company that she liked, when she might go to the city, where it was more heartsolnelike, and more lifesomelike, and sure there was luck for her anyhow?" The news had spread that a school was to be opened in the plasterer's house, and the day of the teacher's ex- pected arrival having been announced, a crowd of urchins gathered about the door. As Mr. Dougolas was being lifted from the carriage, young America set up a shout,- "Ha! old one, you can't whip!" "I'll come to school to you." "But mebbe it's the gal, though," from the other side. "Don't care if it is, I can take the whip from her 1" Mattie deduced the conclusion that city and country children were different; but she was in for it now, her hand was on the plow, there was no looking back. A heterogeneous mass was Mattie's school I Ragged Bob and crying Bill, lying Nell and saucy Bet. "Patience must have its perfect work," was her motto. But the struggle was desperate; she began to think she must sink, when, at the moment of despair, came encouragement. Pupils were brought to her from the adjacent public school in consequence, parents said, of the reformation she had made in certain notorious characters in the neighborhood. Also, there was a complaint that the city school was not efficient, and as Mattie's had proved eminently so, the transfer of pupils became so frequent and numerous as to elicit the attention of the school authorities. "   122     DOINGS IN MARYAND, And now the young teacher had plenty of labor but little pay; her charge was small, and even that pittance often went unpaid, because, as she had been warned by the plasterer's wife, of the inability of the parties con- cerned. Mattie smiled at the remembrance of her terrific dream, as she put away five dollars of those received for the cow, and with this sum purchased a year's member- ship of the Public Library. And now her hungry heart, as she expressed it, reveled in an intellectual feast. The authors most favorably mentioned in that never-forgotten conversation between Miss Bip and Dr. Bramble she read first, and with much of their contents, though never seen before, the studious girl felt familiar. / Sentiments latent, though hitherto dormant, were now aroused into activity, simply by seeing the same expressed, and she would pause, press her hand upon her brow, and exclaim, "Why, surely this thought is but the echo of an old memory!"And thus many a best thought appeared to her as an old friend might who had been absent for a time, perhaps upon a journey, and who now returned with other news to tell, but told the new story with the same loved voice, the same familiar expression of face and ges. ture. And why this strange sympathy, this reflux as of a tide ebbed out but now returned, only with greater force? Simply because the tones those writers uttered, the ideas they eliminated, the beautiful visions they presented, had many a time and oft passed through the brain of the em- bryo artist, had shaped themselves in her mind's eye, had been echoed deep down in her heart. One has remarked, "No thought was ever thought that was not thought before, and will be thought again by those who have not seen the thought expressed." This reflection some- what takes down the vainglory of the so-called original thinker.   OR MA TILDA DO UGLAS.       123 Mattie read voraciously that year, and it is incredible what a number of volumes she perused. She made the circuit of modern literature, novels, poetry, history, travels, biography; but with the gratification the appetite increased, and her insatiate heart still cried, "Give! give!" How- ever much she might have wished to continue this luscious repast, she did not, but obeyed the dictates of her better judg- ment, and commenced a systematic course of sterner study, embracing mathematics, astronomy, French, and music. We remarked before that-Mattie's school afforded abun- dance of labor but little remuneration. The pupils were of that class, the scanty and hard-earned income of whose parents renders it inconvenient to pay for the education of their children; and this state of things, which exists to a greater or less extent in every community, renders a system of public instruction indispensable to the well-being of society. Nothing can be more incumbent upon the wealthy than a provision for the education of their less fortunate fellow-beings; and to such a provision the city in which Mattie lived laid the most ostentatious claims. But this provision or system, if such it could be called, was so in- complete in its working, so imperfect in its development, as to render it unworthy of public confidence, and dear to the community at half the expense entailed. One news- paper said, "People pay their taxes promptly, teachers receive their salaries regularly, school commissioners are elected yearly, and, with grave importance, meet weekly; yet the poor children starve daily for want of a crumb of education." But among the class of people referred to, and thus re- stricted in means, are found many noble spirits who de- prive themselves of even the necessaries of life, that they may bestow upon their offspring some little strength of heart and principle (by means of education) before send-   124      DOINGS IN MARYAND, ing them forth to battle with that monster-the World-- before they engage in the dreadful contest of life,-a con- test that is prepared for us without our consent, and from which we may not escape, and in which so many are borne down to rise no more, no more in this world at least. With such the gallows groans beneath its burden, the prisons cry "It is enough," and that worst of earthly hells-the brothel-receives its horrid and abundant quota. Oh, wise women of the age, look to this, this most fearful stain upon your sex I And the noble and self-sacrificing, for the sake of their children, did patronize Mattie's school, but not in suffi- cient numbers to sustain it; yet she never rejected a pupil because of non-payment, consequently the income was by no means in proportion to the outgo of labor or adequate to the comfortable support of the family. But the bread cast upon the water in time brought its reward. As a legitimate result of her charity, Mattie's school in- creased in popularity, while that of the neighboring city school, from causes equally natural, decreased rapidly, and thbus was brought about a climax which produced an entire revolution in the affairs of this remarkable girl. School commissioners found it would be necessary to remove either their school or Mattie's, and as it was more con- venient to do the latter than the former, she was advised to apply for a situation under the Board. The hint was gratefully accepted and acted upon. Mattie attended the next examination of teachers, passed brilliantly, and without the aid of Mrs. Gilt's politicians was promptly elected.   OR MATILDA DOUGLAS.         25 CHAPTEIR     XXIV. DR. DONKUR. "About his shelves A beggarly account of empty boxes, Great earthen pots, bladders, and musty seeds, Remains of packthread and old cakes of rosin, Were thinly scattered to make up a show." ' THE hope of relief presented to Mr. Douglas proved an all-sufficient inducement, and secured his prompt con- sent to the proposed change of residence, and to the risk they must run of starving among strangers.  The suffer- ing man, mentally and physically infirm, was childishy impatient to be off as soon as the idea of going had taken possession of his mind, and when once at his journey's end, "A doctor! a doctor!" was his constant cry. A stranger in the city, and unacquainted with its celeb- rities, Mattie, of course, had to be guided in her selec- tion of a physician by the opinions of those by whom she was surrounded. She had fallen among a class of people remarkable for quick and generous impulses, but, unfor- tunately, destitute of philosophical investigation,-hence credulous, easily deceived and readily dazzled into ap- plause by the flash and glitter of adroit imposition. In this neighborhood, at this particular juncture, a certain Dr. Donkur enjoyed the pre-eminence of flashing and dash- ing celebrity. Cures as remarkable as those made by the apostles were attributed to him, though no one knew how such improbabilities had gained credit, the person could not be found who had witnessed practice by the doctor "*   126      DOINGS IN MARYAND, corroborative of the astounding reputation claimed for him by those whose pleasure it seemed to be to sound his praise. The fact was, certain individuals had no other business in life than to blow the trumpet of the doctor's fame, but only the knowing ones, who, at a distance, caught the echo of the sound, suspected the fact that this was his method of advertising. The puff-ball had thus cunningly been put in motion, and the further it rolled the larger it grew.    / Among the wonderful cures attributed to this-not doctor of divinity, but divinity of a doctor, was that of a poor sailor who, from undue exposure, hard usage, and constitutional causes, had lost the use of his limbs. He had been doctored and douched in the three principal cities of the Union, had been dismissed from the best hos- pitals as incurable; it was reserved for Dr. Donkur only to restore vitality to limbs, long since paralyzed and dead. He heard of the case, and, panting for glory, waited upon the invalid, and proffered a gratuitous attendance, giving the hope of perfect restoration, if the sufferer would only place himself under his treatment unreservedly, and sub- mit to his entire control.- The unfortunate man, only too happy to grasp at the shadow of a hope, eagerly consented, declaring that, if restored to health, all his after-life should be devoted to so noble a benefactor. The doctor assured him that his restoration would be no linger-etn-long pro- cess, but a single operation, speedy in its effects, would do the business at once, and equally astonish the patient and the world. The time for the operation was appointed, spectators invited,--not medical spectators, however,-the trumpeters notified to be on duty, and all things prepared for the event which was to make Dr. Donkur the greatest of living phy- sicians. The poor cripple was brought in and laid upon   OR MATILDA DOUGLAS.        127 the floor with his face downwards. He was divested of his clothes by the doctor's assistants, and the doctor, with the solemnity of a magician, proceeded to build a fire upon the sick man's back. Chips and shavings of rosin pine were laid along his spine and set on fire, much as children for cruel sport put coals upon the back of a tor- toise, that they may have the fun of seeing the tortured animal stretch out and strain, as for a winning-post, its clumsy gait. With a howl of agony that curdled the blood in the veins of the spectators and sent them bolting from the room, the poor fellow sprang upon all fours, then floun- dered and beat about the floor in the manner of a chicken whose head has just been severed, or that of a corpse, the nerves of which have received a powerful shock from a galvanic battery. And thus the unfortunate man, who had so innocently placed himself in the hands of an un- principled empiric, writhed, and squirmed, gasped and died. "They buried him darkly at dead of night," and, after a time, a report was circulated to the effect that the man had recovered and left the city. This, and similar feats, laid the foundation of the doctor's fame I He was as eminent for the cure of consumption as of paralysis, and, though as deaf as a post, he was such an expert aus- cultator, that he could sound a patient's lungs across the street. ]/is deafness, whether real or pretended, was a most convenient appendage, and afforded the doctor lots of amusement, as well as of real pleasure. It afforded him an excuse for sitting near his lady patients, for gazing deep into their eyes, for approaching his lips close to theirs, especially if they were young and pretty,-he was always unusually deaf then! Of course, all this was unknown and unsuspected by the humble inhabitants of Mattie's neighborhood, in whose   128      DOINGS IXN  ARYAND, opinion the doctor stood at the head of his profession. Mattie was only too happy to obtain for her father aid so magnifi- cent, and, with innocent humanity, besou(rht the medical Juggernaut to visit the abode of her afflicted parent. After a lapse of time, sufficient to give due importance to his coming, with a speed and a crash which threw up every window in the neighborhood and drew forth every head, the great doctor arrived. Hle essayed to examine the pa- tient, but an uninterested observer might have remarked that he looked one moment at the sick man and two at the sick man's daughter. "By jove i" he mentally exclaimed, "a perfect clover- blossom." He entered into conversation with her, and found, to his astonishment, a mind fresher, sweeter, more beautiful, more richly laden, than whole acres of clover- blossoms. "A jewel in an ash-heap I By Heaven, I'll wear it i was his mental resolve. Innumerable were the prescriptions for pills, powders, lotions, and baths. Poor Mattie wondered where all the money was to come from to pay for these expensive things; "' but I'll save every cent," she said to herself, "I'll even do without food, only eat a little. just to keep life in me, that I may have the money to buy the medicine that will make my father well. Oh, I am so glad we have got this great physician l"The great physician was as promnpt and regu- lar in his attendance upon Mr. Douglas as if he had been a rich man. Mattie was charmed, so were the kind-hearted neighbors. I)r. Dunkur was more famous than ever. He was also deafer, and consequently when Mattie gave himl information of the patient, he heard with his lips closer to her lips, his eyes deeper down into hers. Mattie, he is trying to mesmerize you ; unsuspecting child, beware I On one occasion, when conversing with the young nurse   OR MATILDA DOUGLAS.        129 about her much-loved charge, the doctor adroitly brought the subject round to phrenology. "Are you a believer in phrenology as a science?" he asked. "I do not know enough of the subject to give an opinion," replied Mattie. "Fowler is in the city at present; go to him and get a chart of your head. I should like to know your strong and weak points," said the doctor, playfully running his fingers behind her ear. "I will think of it," replied the girl, startled at the snaky expression of his eye. He was so exceedingly deaf just then that his lips touched hers before he could hear a word. She sprang from her seat, and, running behintd his chair, screamed into his ear at the top of her voice, "I'll think of it." After this interview, Mattie felt unhappy, though she knew not why; but the presence of the doctor was hateful to her, and she avoided him on all occasions, nmaking Nannie receive his directions about the patient. Mattie had a mind that no one could hoodwink long, and she now gave place to a suspicion, before entertained, that her father was not being benefited in the least by the doctor's medi- cine. One more interview, then, one more conversation on the subject, should decide the matter. On the occasion of his next visit she approached him. "Doctor, I am prepared to hear the worst. What is your opinion of my father? Can you benefit him or not?" "My dear girl, I have despaired of his case long since; I cannot benefit him in the least." "Pray may I inquire why your visits are continued, then?" said Mattie, with open-eyed astonishment. "My visits are to yourself, sweet girl. Are you so cruelly unappreciative as not to feel that my visits are to yourself?"   130     DOINGS IN' MARYAND, "In the name of Heaven! for what purpose do you visit me?" she interrogated with almost breathless emotion. "I want you for my wife." "For your wife! Why, you have one, have you not?" "But I shall not have her long. Have I not been telling you over and over that she is paralyzed like your father and cannot recover? I know she will not live long, and I want another engaged against the time when my legal obligation to this one shall cease." M-attie's sense of honor was of the nicest kind, and her feelings revolted at this proposition as much as if the fellow had proposed marriage in the Mornmon style, while his wife yet lived. Obeying, the impulse of the moment, and almost unconscious of what she did, she arose, opened the door, and, with profound dignity, bowed the suitor out. There was a scornful expression in the girl's eye, and a curl of the lip, as she stood at that open door, which admitted of no parley. So out he went, but he sent her a memento of himself, in the form of a bill for medical attendance, which it took years to pay; and only that imprisonment for debt -that relic of barbarism--was banished from the statute- book of Maryland, the child and her father would have rotted in a prison to glut the vengeance of a villain foiled in his diabolical design.   OR MATILDA DOUGLAS.        131 CHAPTER XXV. SCHOOLS. "Let authors write for glory and reward, Truth is well paid when she is sung and heard." THE public school system in Maryland fainted. All who were interested saw that something must be done to infuse vitality into its benumbed and stagnant circulation. After much discussion, it was finally determined by those in power, although the burden of taxation would thereby be increased, to establish a higher grade of schools,--re- ward schools,-into which teachers, and pupils who dis- tinguished themselves, might be promoted, the former to teach and the latter to learn. The philanthropic rejoiced at the prospect for the poor, and so did the demagogue politician, who at once perceived the thing would make a famous hobby on which to ride before the public. The School Board held a special meeting on the subject, ap- pointed a committee to draft resolutions and make arrange- ments for carrying the brilliant idea into immediate effect. 6 Said Committeeman A, "We must first give the con- templated schools a name; it will be so much more con- venient to talk about them ; for how could we talk about beasts if Adam had not given them names?" Said Committeeman B, "I propose to call them High Schools." "How can we give them such a title until we know whether or not they will deserve it?" said Committee- man C.   132      DOINGS IN MARYAND, "We intend to make them deserve it," said Committee- man D. "What kind of High? High up in four-story houses, or high in price?" innocently asked Committeeman E. Now Committeeman D was one of the genus "politico- pedigo" before referred to, and he replied for great Bun. combe, "High, sir, in point of scientific and literary grade. We intend to make these schools unsurpassed in efficiency; in fact, they shall rival all the aristocratic colleges in the country, and in them the poor laborer's son, and the des- titute widow's daughter, shall receive educations that will fit them for any position in this or any other country. In a few years from this the President of this glorious Union may walk down our streets and select for his minister to the Court of St. James, or any other court, the first man he meets, and he shall find him ready to stand up to the best of them, lords and dukes, kings and queens. And that same minister to the Court of St. James, or any other court, may select for his accomplished wife any girl that has been educated in this, that is to be, world-renowned city, and place her in the ducal throng to represent the fair daughters of this fair nation; yes, sir, represent them "'To the distant lands of orient hue, Or the island that lies like a drop of dew On the mane of the dandy-lion.' "So universally do we intend to spread the blessings of education, that the very hawkers and criers in our streets shall hawk and cry in Latin and Greek; and the lone watchman, on his midnight beat, shall be able to relieve the dull tedium of his vigils by songs of Tasso in the original, and by astronomical observations involving the deepest mathematical calculations. That, sir, is what we mean to do for young, blushing, blooming, bouncing America."   OR MATILDA DOUGLAS.        133 Committeeman O, in former years, had been a laboring weaver, and it had been the great and only one ambition of his life to own a factory. The throw of the shuttle appeared to him the most graceful of movements; the whir and clatter of the machinery, the sweetest music; to be a boss and own a factory, the climax of greatness. He now addressed the committee; "Gentlemen, we cannot with propriety call these schools by either of the titles proposed. If we should call them High, and it turned out that they were low, no doubt the ridicdule would be infernal. We cannot call them colleges, because we do not intend them to be chartered; and academy is too hackneyed. I propose, therefore, to call them Education Factories I That will be so research-a (recherche), and besides suggestive of character," pro- phetically spoke Committeeman C. In days when Committeeman C threw the shuttle in the dim, damp cellar of his employer, such a suggestion from him would have been laughed to scorn; but now he pos- sessed the god of America--money-no matter how ob- tained; hence he was oracular with Buncombe politicians whose notes he held, and commissioners (poor creatures!), who adore nothing so much as the almighty dollar. Fac- tory, then, was the accepted cognomen, and three of the kind it -was decided to erect; two Female, an Eastern and Western, and one Male Central. Our business, in this volume, is with the Female Factories, especially the Eastern, because Mattie got entangled in the machinery of that one. The Male Central we reserve for a sequel. We remarked that Committeeman C spoke propheti- cally, when he said the term Factory would be suggestive of character. Alas, yes; the unconscious prognostic was proved to have been but too aptly such; for like the hy- drophobic prints sent out by some factories and which 12   134      DOINGS IfN MARYAND, pale at the approach of water, so the educations obtained in these institutions, when called into requisition for the practical purposes of life, are found to be utterly valueless. Years of previous time, which can never be redeemed, are lost in learning by rote, without understanding a single principle, a few questions in algebra and geometry, in dis- cussing the difference between magnetism and electricity, telling why the dainty pith-ball bounds coquettishy away at the approach of the electric rod, or with amorous haste kisses its magnetic lips. How the pneumatic and voltaic pile are constructed, the difference between carbonic acid and carbonic oxide, between alkalies and alkaloids, be- tween oxidation and deoxidation, by children that cannot read with any degree of accuracy, that cannot write a page correctly, or analyze a sentence of their mother tongue, that know no more of the bistory of their own country than they do of the red snow regions, except, in- deed, the questions on which they have been drilled for exhibition, and which were all put in on the high-pressure principle. Then the public expense. Ah, the waste of public money which, if properly applied, would bring joy to the heart, honor to the head, and: renown to the names of thousands I We are not opposed to systems of public education; nay, we look to them for the dissemination of that intelli- gence which is to perpetuate this republic and regenerate the nations. Intelligent and untrammeled thought is that great temple of equal rights and equal advantages into which men must enter and be baptized before they go forth to govern themselves and the world. The ability to think correctly must become universal; then will be ushered in that millennial reign, when the gospel of Christ shall cover the earth like one glorious burst of dazzling sun-   OR MATILDA DOUGLAS.        135 shine; when it shall repair the effects of Adam's fall; when it shall restore to the world that equilibrium of moral purity which it would have enjoyed by inheritance but for the " primal disobedience which brought death into -the world and all our woes.' This is a digression and we proceed with the story. Mr. Seeker was the Principal elect of the Eastern Fac- tory. Nathan H. Slytickle, first assistant; he was of the Uriah Heep genus, meek and much a. liar. And last and least, but, though small in stature, large in art, Miss Ursa Minor, second assistant. Mr. Seeker enjoyed the honors and emoluments of his position but for a short time, poor fellow, as he soon found it necessary to seek other quarters, so quickly and effect- ively was he tickled out of these. Like Bluebeard's wives, he laughed and died, only his death was official, theirs, as the story goes, physical. And bow Mr. Slytickle tickled Mr. Seeker out of the principalship, and himself into it, I propose to tell, if, kind reader, you will follow the cockal trice's escr through the process of hatching.   136      DOINGS IN MARYAND, CHAPTER    XXVI. MARY BROWN. "Famine is in thy cheeks, Need and oppression stareth in thine eyes, Upon thy back hangs ragged misery, The world is not thy friend, nor the world's laws." A SMALL and dilapidated house, situated in one of the most obscure and poverty-scarred parts of the city, has for its occupant an invalid woman and her orphan daughter. This woman has seen better days, and although she has long been steeped in squalid poverty, and surrounded by coarse and vulgar scenes, her cultivated sensibilities are not destroyed, and her heart still clings to the remem- brance of that refinement which was once her sphere. She has endeavored to give her only child an education, wish- ing and expecting by that means to elevate her, superior to the rude circumstances by which she is surrounded; for this purpose she must avail herself of the city school,- she has no other means of obtaining the much-coveted good. Many a weary day and night has the mother plied for their support the ill-requited needle, buoyed up by the hope that when Mary shall have finished her education she will obtain a situation as teacher, and then she-poor, sick mother, worn out with anxiety and fatigue--may rest a little, and be comforted by the affectionate care of her child, and sustained by the proceeds of her superior labor. At the period to which we refer in the history of this Tamily, Mary is a pupil in the Eastern Female Education Factory; her term of required attendance is about to ex-   OR MATILDA DOUGLAS.       137 pire, and Mrs. Brown counts the months, the weeks, nay, even the days and hours, that must elapse ere the epoch of deliverance arrives, and she be relieved, in some meas- ure, of the burden that is crushing her. She can labor no longer. If relief does not come in some form, she must sink beneath the accumulated weight of bodily infirmity and mental anxiety. Commissioner A has promised Mary a situation as teacher as soon as she has completed her education I On this promise the broken-down woman has lived; it has kept the reluctant blood creeping through her heart; it has galvanized the relaxed nerves of her worn-out system. She clutches convulsively the needle, and, strained up by the hope that relief is at hand, accomplishes the daily amount of work that will afford them their daily supply of food, and nothing more. She has finished the work for the day, and is now lying prostrate upon her couch. Mary is seated by her side. Says the mother, "I am so glad, my dear, that your term at school has ended at last; vou will get a situation immediately, and then I can take a little rest; perhaps when I have less labor and anxiety, my health will react, and I shall yet be spared to watch over and guide you, and surround your path with my loving care." Said Mary, "Mother, I am very much afraid I shall not pass the examination for teacher. I know that in many of the requisite branches I am deficient, and I have tried hard to advance in those necessary, but I could get no assistance. Mr. Slytickle was always painting pen- handles or makingo gas, and when I approached him for help, I saw he did not like the interruption; and Miss Ursa Minor was either reading a new book or writing a letter, and if I approached her for directions how to go on with my work, she was as huffish as Mr. Slytickle; and 12*   138     DOINGS 1N MARYAND, thus repelled on all sides, I was without alternative, and had to learn as best I could in silence. The branches taught by the Principal I understand, because he is faith- ful and kind to all the girls; but those are not required in the examination of teachers, they are for diplomas. And now, mother, you must pardon me for not telling you this sooner; I feared to do so: if a complaint had been made to the school authorities there would have been no more peace for me in that institution." Mrs. Brown raised herself on her elbow and gazed at -her daughter with a look so ghastly that it froze the hot blood in the child's bounding veins. "Not passI not pass! did you say? And is it for this I have spent long years of toil to keep you at school and give you an educa- tion, which I thought would elevate you above such de- pravity as surrounds us, and place it in your power to sustain my feeble old age? Now, when I am broken in body and spirits; now that the strength has passed from my heart like the odor from a flower that is crushed be- neath the feet of the careless, thronging crowd; now you tell me your time and my trouble have all been thrown away, and you cannot pass the requisite examination l" The wretched woman fell back upon her pillow gasping with emotion. Poor Mary's tears bedewed her mother's pallid face; laying her burning cheek to the blanched and shrunken cheek of her almost dying parent, she moaned out, "I could not help it, mother I do not blame me, mother I I was poor and friendless, and so I received no attention from the teachers." "God only knows what will become of us," gasped the mother; "I have put the landlord off from time to time by telling him that you expected a situation, and then I would pay all arrears; but now, when he finds that you   OR MATILDA DOUGLAS.        139 have nothing to expect in that quarter, we will be tossed out of the house, and where we are to fine a shelter I cannot tell." (Scene- The Examination-Room. ) "Who is that girl yonder that is sobbing and moaning so piteously?" asked Commissioner A, as he came into the room in which candidates were being examined. "It is RMary Brown," replied Mr. Slvtickle. "She has failed in her examination, and she is bewailing and taking on as if it were a matter of life and death." That it was a matter of life and death, Mr. Slytickle neither knew nor cared. (Scene-- The Street.) -A few old pieces of furniture are exposed upon the side- walk for sale, the proceeds to pay the rent of a kennel scarcely fit for the shelter of dumb brutes. A covered cart, containing within its hearselike jaws a dying woman, is taking its course towards the city almshouse. The piercing shrieks of a young and almost heart-broken girl ring out upon the air, "Oh, my mother! my motherl" But the air is not startled, for the air in that locality is used to shrieks.   "O      DOINGS IN MARYAND, CHAPTER    XXVI I. A SECRET ENEMY., ' You are a bumbug, sir." "Dare you say so?" "I dare." OLD PLAY. SAID Commissioner A to the meek Slvtickle, "How is it, sir, that so many of the graduates from the Eastern Factory fail in their examination? I am especially sorry for Miss Brown, as I had promised her mother, who is a worthy woman, a situation for Mary as soon as she graduated; but now, having failed in her examination, I can do nothing for her. These institutions are maintained at great expense to the city, and certainly the people have a right to expect more advantages from them than they have as yet received." Said Slytickle, "Why, you see, sir, the factis our Principal is not a practical man,-he is a splendid theorist, but not a practical man,-consequently, while he is building castles in the air his houses on the ground get out of repair. I could tell you a great many things, but then you must summon me before the committee and demand my testimony, so that an official injunction may shield me from the consequences of giving what, indeed, I have no inclination to withhold, only I fear the consequence." "I shall convene the committee immediately; hold your- self, sir, in readiness to appear." (Scene-Mr. Slytickle before the Committee.) Chairman.-"How is it, Mr. Slytickle, that such a want of success attends the Eastern Factory? The failure of that   OR MATILDA DOUGLAS.        141 establishment to meet the demands of the public is lament- able, and it becomes our duty to investigate the matter." "Well, sir, the fault is with our Principal, who is a most worthy gentleman, but so utterly unpractical. Why, sir, I could give you information that would astonish you; but, then, you must keep what I tell you a profound secret, because Mr. Seeker is a strong man and I am a weak man; you know I don't mean anything, but, then, he could inflict upon me personal injury."' Commissioner B, with a patronizing air.--"Go on, sir, with your testimony; we will shield you from the conse- sequence." "Well, then, gentlemen, I will give you the last case of Mr. Seeker's want of practicability. He announced to the school that on a certain day he would experiment upon the sustenance of life, with a view to proving the assertion that nothing could live without air,-that is, animal life could not be supported without the aid of that subtle fluid. Well, gentlemen, as certain as you sit there, he got the school assembled, and the kitten, brought for the pur- pose, under the receiver, and he pumped and pumped until his heart was nearly broken, trying, but all in vain, to produce a vacuum,-he is so unpractical, you see. Well, no vacuum could he produce, and no kitten could he kill; he could not even scare the thing, for it knew its master's character, and perfectly understood that he would never accomplish anything he undertook. So there sat the saucy creature blinking and winking at the girls, and almost ready-to laugh right out at its master's frantic efforts. But, gentlemen, although I tell you all this, yet I don't mean anything, only our worthy Principal pumped until the perspiration rolled from his brow, and all to no purpose; when, finally, raising the receiver, he permitted the kitten to escape, and then explained to the school that the aninmal   "2      DOINGS IN MARYAND, was scientifically dead; and now they all understood how impossible it was to live without breath." "Why, the man must be demented,' said Commissioner with great indignation; "I am for dismissing him at once. " Mr. Slytickle, evidently alarmed.-"Now, gentlemen, remember I am a weak man and Mr. Seeker is a strong man; he may do me some personal injury if this should come to his ears." "Be calm, sir," patronizingly from Commissioner B, "be calm, we will protect your interest i Mr. Seeker shall never know where the blow comes from." "You see, gentlemen, I am not a proud man like our Principal, I am a humble man," said Uriah Heep the second. Very patronizingly from Commissioner B.--"Yes, we understand, Mr. Slytickle; and now you may retire for the present." (Scene-Mr. Seeker before the Committee.) Said the Chairman, "Mr. Seeker, the committee has convened and summoned you before it to investigate the cause of the numerous failures which take place in the examination of graduates from your school." "They do not fail in my branches, sir," said Mr. Seeker, bowing gentlemanly. "But do you not consider yourself responsible for the whole school?" "Most certainly not, sir; you, I mean the committee, select my assistants, as they are called, without my advice, and dismiss them in the same manner. They are responsi- ble to you and not to me." "But is it not a part of your duty to observe the teachers under you, and report to the committee if they do not attend to their business properly?"   OR MATILDA DOUGLAS.       143 "If by observing, sir, you mean playing the spy upon the teachers associated with me, I confess, sir, I do not con- sider it a part of my duty, neither can I accept it as such." "/How does Slytickle attend to his business?" put in another member of the convention. Mr. Seeker, with some hauteur.--"I am not on the witness-stand, sir." "He is too independent," whispered Com. C; "I don't like him."' Said the Chairman, "We consider it necessary for the good of the school that the Principal shall make a secret report to this committee once a month at least, of the faith- fulness and efficiency of the teachers under him, or to the contrary, if such be the ease." Mr. Seeker's Saxon blood rushed into his face, and he replied with dignity of manner, "Then you must employ another man for the purpose, gentlemen; I cannot accept the work of espionage which you assign me." The Chair.-"Then, sir, we will dispense with your services at the expiration of the present quarter." Mr. Seeker.--"I shall not intrude upon you, sir, until the end of the quarter, but shall vacate immediately." And bowing gracefully, left the room. At the door, or rather outside, Mr. Seeker met his coad- jutor Slytickle, who had been peeping and listening. "Has anything happened?" eagerly asked Slytickle. "Yes, something has happened,--I have resigned," re- plied Seeker. '"But you don't mean anything by it, do you?" asked Slytickle. "I always mean what I say," replied the badgered man, and, casting upon the crouching dog before him a con- temptuous look, left the building. Slytickle rushed frantically into the committee-room.   "4      DOINGS IN MARYAND, "Oh, gentlemen, gentlemen," he exclaimed, "I could watch the teachers and report to you! I could watch 'em all day, and I could kill the kitten, and I am a humble man,--I don't put on airs. Oh, gentlemen I you know what I would ask. Take pity on a man with an extrava- gant wife and a child besides." "Be composed," said the patronizing Commissioner B. "We think favorably of you, Mr. Slytickle, and it is more than likely that you will be rewarded for your fidelity by receiving the exalted position to which you aspire; and when you are Principal of the Eastern Female Education Factory we expect the machinery to be well oiled, the boiler kept full, and the blower in motion." CHAPTER    XXVIII. PROMOTION. "It were indeed a misfortune for the community, if among the many blunders made by men who have charge of public interests, they did not sometimes get right by accident." THE experiments in education were going on and failing in the Factories. Those pompous structures, whose pre- tending fronts, reared high and bold, signified to the be- holder that they were there for some great purpose. Stately they stood, in all their splendid nothingness, and in them hundreds from the city treasury every year were spent in experimenting upon the chemical properties of soap, and the effect of that salvo upon commissioners; in testing the components of gas that would make a noise in the public ear and blind the public eye, not forgetting large experiments in laughing-gas and talking-gas. To   OR MATILDA DOUGLAS.        145 furnish these sepulchers of intellect, thousands of the public money were spent, and that in the purchase of philosophical apparatus, of nmuch of which the teachers neither knew the names nor the use, and tens of thousands upon the teachers themselves, whose chief recommenda- tion was their servility, and whose official life was one concatenated lie!-perfect in its linking. While all this solemn farce was being acted in one part of the city, poor Mattie was in another laboring honestly, faithfully, in her humble sphere far out upon the common,- common, indeed! where the afflicted air, burdened with discordant sounds, and stench most foul, sighed and be- moaned its degraded state. Amid machine-shops and steam-boiler establishments, and shanties reeking with the smell of burning tan and smoking fish; with the jail on one hand and the peniten- tiary on the other,-a place as abominable for its sights as for its sounds. Thus, amid a population as coarse and vulgar as the scenes and circumstances by which they were surrounded, did Mattie come like the first struggling sunbeam on a polar sea after the horrors of an Arctic night. Laboring earnestly, regardless of the effect upon herself, she was only anxious to perform her part to the satisfaction of her conscience first, and her patrons next. Such was her extreme modesty that she was almost un- conscious of her own ability, and totally unexpectant of the results that followed. Rough, uncouth marble became smooth and polished beneath her artistic touch. Ilarsh natures yielded to her kind yet firm demands. Hearts and dispositions, hardened and corrupted by unkind usage and debasing association, became softened and purified under her gentle training. Savage and revengeful thoughts --thoughts of deadly hate and dastard rapine-fled from the breasts of those whom she instructed, like as the 13   "6      DOINGS IN MARYAND, demon-vulture fled from the heart of the king before the sweet sounds of David's harp. And thus she soon placed her school peerless in its grade, and herself, in- public estimation, at the head of her profession. Great, too, were the disadvantages under Which this most faithful of teachers labored, with respect not only to location, but to the class of children to be taught,--children kept at home half the time to work or mind the baby while mother went out to work; children made restive and in- subordinate under necessary restraint by the home influ- ence of family strife and unpunished rebellion; children that are taught lying and begging as a trade; for such surroundings embraced the school, and none more horrid could be found. But despite all these retarding circulm- stances, Mattie presented every year to the Factories, where, alas! they were permitted to forget what she, with so much sacrifice, had taught them, her quota of pupils, larger than that furnished by any other school, although every school in the city had the advantage of hers in point of position. This unlooked-for success attracted public attention and elicited public applause; and, finally, pupils began to pour in from all sections, braving the hor- rors of external circumstances, because, 'when once inside the walls, an intellectual feast was spread for their ac- ceptance not to be found elsewhere. Many families living too remote to permit the attendance of their children, moved as near the ugly neighborhood as was thought compatible with gentility, and thus the school building had to be enlarged to meet the increasing demand for room. It seemed as though the winds of heaven caught up and carried far and wide the fame of the timid, unas- suming girl, whose only talisman of success was that her heart was in her work. 'Thou, God, seest me," her motto.   OR MATILDA DOUGLAS.        147 The Committee on the failing Factories having de- termined to place the creature Slytickle in the position of Principal of the Eastern, thought best to fill his place- that of first assistant--with a lady whose efficiency had been proved beyond a doubt; and the choice fell upon Mattie. With many tears of her own, and from the pupils she was leaving, who clung to her and sobbed as if at the burial of a loved parent, Mattie bade farewell to the scene of her first efforts in the cause of public education, -where labor had been sweetened by success, and a rich and abundant harvest repaid-the seed sown in tears and tilled by industry. The elevation of Miss Douglas over the head of Miss Ursa Minor deeply wounded the self-complacency of that chirping, crickety little woman, who buzzed and fluttered round all in a pester of self-laudation, as though, indeed, her labor and faithful performance of duty had entitled her to consideration. Little women are so pestiferously fussy I Webster--he the great talker-said, "Nothing was more desirable than a little farm well tilled except a little wife well willed," and I suppose the scarcity of the article enhances the value. A little woman feels that nature has not dignified or distinguished her, and in her efforts to supply the deficiency and attract your attention, she be- comes most uncomfortably " de trop."' Like a mouse, she will make a nest in your coat-sleeve before you know where you are, or, like a wren, build in your hat the mo- ment it is off your head ; and then, because she is a woman, you must bear the intrusion. You may grind your teeth or your finger-nails, bite your lips or your tongue, but bear the intrusion you must. Byron's abhorrence was a dumpy woman, and such is mine. A tall woman will be dignified perforce of circumstances; her figure demands it;    "8     D OINGS -IN MARYAD, and if she makes any pretension to refinement, she will cultivate manners suitable and graceful to her physical de- velopment. Then the reciprocal effects of mind and matter are so mysteriously blent that, what affects the one will tell upon the other, and thus dignified sentiments will pro- duce dignified manners; and though we do not exactly say that dignified manners will produce dignified sentiments, yet manners are, to some extent, indicative of character, and assist in developing that which is latent. In corroboration of an idea here advanced, Sir Walter Scott says, "If a man takes the attitude of rage he will, in some measure, feel angry."  And it is well known that the elder Booth, than whom no one ever performed Richard the Third better, would so completely identify himself with the subject as, for the time being, actually to imagine, himself the king. Mattie had now attained to her full stature, and was a tall and splendidly proportioned woman. The Douglas blood showed itself in her too.' True, she was not classi- cally beautiful in feature, but the fire of genius lighted her eye and wreaths of sweetness encircled her mouth; her port was noble, her form majestic; a lady in principle, in manners, in education, in appearance. No wonder was it, then, that the heart of the dwarfish, insignificant Ursa Minor ate itself out with envy and chagrin at the introduc- tion to the sphere she coveted of so splendid a rival. Ursa Minor's father,-I suppose Ursa Major,-Reverend John, rallied quite a little panic to the rescue, poked up quite a smart whirlwind, but did not ascend in it; only proved by it that his daughter was the foremost scholar in the Rev. Mr. Jarpot's school, and therefore was entitled to the most exalted promotion. Don't infer, dear friend, that we have any antipathy to the clerical profession because we so frequently drag be- fore you the prefix Rev. We assure you that such is not   OR MATILDA DOUGLAS.        149 the case; we are writing from life; our characters are be- fore us, living, breathing beings. Didwe call them by the names they usually bear, you would at once identify the group, and we hope you will, notwithstanding the nomns de plume they wear. And, my reverend reader, if I should ever have so distinguished an honor, do not ap- prehend that you are the party slurred at, unless, indeed, you are the veritable Bear. Well, Ursa Major proved that Ursa Minor was the fore- most scholar in the Rev. Mr. Jarpot's school, and that she could recite whole volumes of history, and could write compositions wonderful in length, and breadth, and wind, and words, and was such an astonishing elocutionist that when she read,- the dogs howled in unison, mistaking the tones of the reader's voice for the cry of one of their kindred in distress. But without a single effort on Mattie's part, she was triumphantly placed in the position so earnestly coveted by the erudite Miss Ursa Minor, and so vigorously strained after by her reverend father, whose anxiety was occasioned by the fact that a few additional dollars were the crowning glory of the post; and this man of heaven- ward tendencies " wore the world as so loose a garment that he could envelop in its ample folds the five zones and yet find room for the poles." The corps of operatives being complete in number, the Education Factory again sped on, with its flimsy warp and woof, with its sizing that would not stick, with its gloss that would wear off, with its flaunting colors that would fade out,--all being put in on the high-pressure principle. The Western Factory also underwent a change, and again clipper-clappered, under the direction of Mr. Robert Fizzle, A M., and his band of female coadjutors, foremost among whom was the renowned Becky Sharp, whose acquaint. 13*   150      DOINGS IN MARYAND, ance it is necessary to make in order to understand the story, and for an introduction to this representative lady we are indebted to William Makepeace Thackeray, Esq. CHAPTER XXIX. MR. SLYTICKLE WANTS A PRESENT. "Doubtless the pleasure is as great Of being cheated as to cheat. As lookers-on feel most delight That least perceive the juggler's sleight; And still the less they understand, The more admire his sleight of hand." THE entrance of Mattie into the Eastern Education Factory was hailed with delight, not only by her pupils, many of whoom were there, but also by the public. It was expected that great and important results, beneficial to the cause of education, would grow out of the change. Such did grow luxuriantly, and, if not important to the cause of education, so to Mattie, at least. This one step changed her whole subsequent life, and gave to it a com- plexion that it otherwise never could have had. "By threads innumerable our destiny is woven." We must see at a glance that two- such natures as Mat- tie's and Slytickle's could no more exist together harmo- niously than could frost and fire,--she, all honor; he, all villainy; she, all honest work; he, all humbuggery; she, all nature; he, all art. Said Slytickle, "Miss Douglas, not long since my class made me a present of a watch, and now I want a chain,   OR MATILDA DOUGLAS.        151 or, at least, my wife does, for she wears the watch. Well, I don't like to ask the chain of my class so soon after having received the watch; but, as your class has not given me anything, it might give me the chain; but, though I give you this hint, yet I don't mean anytliing. Now, you are a great favorite with your class, and you ladies know how to manage those things very neatly; but, remember, I don't mean anything l" Mattie, poor girl, was innocent and unsophisticated; she looked at things from a newer point of view than that from which the majority of the world view them, and the re- quest of her Principal bewildered her. Iter earnest, deep- set eyes dilated with wonder. If he had asked her to pick the girls' pockets, she could scarcely have been more as- tonished. She replied, in her honest, straightforward way, "Why, sir, I would not have a present that had to be asked for; and, besides, our pupils are all poor children, many of them orphans, whose widowed mothers can scarcely clothe and feed them while trying to give them a little education. I would rather present you with the requisite amount out of my own pocket than to ask these poor children for it." "But, Miss Douglas, I will let you into a secret, but mind, I don't mean anything by it; yet, the present is not my only motive (although I shall have no peace from my wife until I get her the chain); and the secret is: I want the present to affect public opinion. It makes a teacher look well before the world to receive presents, and I want to make Fizzle, of the Western Factory, fizzle with jealousy of my popularity; then, besides, Seeker will see an ac- count of the affair in the papers, and he will feel that he is not regretted; and you cannot think what a triumph that would be for me I 1 did so hate that man I He kept me at such a distance; he treated me like I was a snake;   152      DOINGS IN MARYAND, and I did run him out of the grass, and so I will all who go counter to my wishes. I am head of this institution, and I shall assert my claim to obedience, prompt and im- plicit." This with a scowling look, and brows ever so much knit into clouds. "I have really no tact in such matters, and I, for various reasons, would rather that you assign the business to another," said Mattie. "And I, for various reasons, assign it to you," replied Mr. Slytickle, with great earnestness. "I regret that you do," she replied, "because I cannot undertake it." "Well, I will let you into a secret, but mind, I don't mean anything: only you get part of the money, and I will give an excursion and raise the rest." "An excursion?"- "Yes, an excursion. Sell tickets at twenty-five cents, gather in Tom, Dick, and Harry;-what do I care, so that I get the chain to stop my wife's tongue with? I wish all the women's tongues could be chained; but mind, I don't mean anything. So now, Miss Douglas, you just help me in this matter, and one of these days I will get up a present for you." "I do not want a present," she replied, rather haughtily. "I would not accept one that had to be obtained by managre- ment. To make a present from my class acceptable to me, it would have to be spontaneous; simply the tangible ex- ponent of feelings which I would appreciate, but not the present for its own sake." "Your ideas are, no doubt, very beautiful and very re- freshing, Miss Douglas," said Slytickle, sarcastically, "but a little behind the age. You are rather fresh from the country, I believe; when you have seen more of the world you will modify your romantic sentiments, and be-   OR MATILDA DOUGLAS.         153 come like the rest of us poor earth-born mortals, who can- not afford to live in the clouds. But, to cut the matter short, I must and will have the present." "I think he means that,' Mattie soliloquized, smiling in spite of her vexation. CHAPTER XXX. THE PLEASURE EXCURSION. "Pleasures are few, and fewer we enjoy; Pleasure, like quicksilver, is bright and coy: We strive, we grasp it with our utmost skill. If seized at last, compute your nightly gains, What is it but rank- poison in your veins?" THE steamer Osiris is freighted with its precious burden of human life, and gallantly, proudly, as if conscious of the valuable charge, bears away down the river and bay, and, snorting self-complacently, disembarks the cargo of youth and beauty at the sequestered nook selected for the picnic. The pleasure-party has been anticipated by those in- terested, and tables are spread about the grounds, covered with various things, both sweet and bitter. With creams and rare confections, with cards and cakes, with ice-water to cool the body, and fire-water to burn and blister the soul. The billiard-tables are decorated, and the dominoes rattle their siren song. Gangs of professional gamblers are on the spot, come to look at the pretty girls, and re- lieve their brothers, lovers, and friends of any loose change they may have about them. A level green is selected for the dance, swings are hung, jumping-ropes uncoiled, grace- hoops produced; and now the amusements of the occasion   154      DOINGS IN MARYYAND, are in full blast. Music from on board the boat is removed to the shore, and soon the dancers' feet keep time to the rise and fall of its voluptuous measure. We will walk round and view the various methods of enjoyment-of pleasure. We are an .isolated spectator, we have no fair one in charge, though we have charge of a fair one, but she is at home; we would not bring her here, we would not permit the air, contaminated by these vulgar scenes, to kiss her pure cheek. Paugh! what a horrid smell of rum and whisky, of brandy-punch and abominable gin-cocktails I The air has grown sullen because of its overburden, and refuses to remove the stench. And those fearful oaths! How dreadful I We involuntarily clasp our hands upon our ears to shut out the fiendish imprecations. Our eyes, too, weary with the sight of cards, and dice, and dominoes, and all the various machinery of the Evil One, used to catch and keep unguarded youth. Here boys and men at play shout out deep roaring oaths or mutter rumbling curses; the vulgar jests rebound from, lip to lip, the broad insinua- tion that lights on all like summer gnats, but leaves a deeper sting-spot, floats free as air. We turn with loath- ing from the place and seek relief for our oppressed feelings in a change of scene, so we roam to other parts of the field of pleasure I Here is a swing, but our head grows dizzy as we look to what a giddy height the strong arm of that athletic youth hurls the seat in which is placed that fragile girl, while he curiously peeps beneath her ballooning skirts to catch a sight of her garters. If her head should swim, or her blood tingle with indignation as ours does, she may fall from the elevation which affords her a bird's-eye view of the surrounding landscape, and if she fall, she must be dashed to pieces. We turn away lest we witness some such catastrophe.   X 1OR MATILDA DOUGLAS.                 155 Yonder stroll a pair-lovers it would seem,-one is Miss Asp, the pet pupil of Mr. Slytickle,--they plunge deeper into the forest, seeklint in its cool shade the pleasure of uninterrupted converse, receiving honey in the ear that may turn to vinegar in the heart. We dare not join these, so we join the spectators of the dance. "I say vou are a liar I She is a Pointer, and the prettiest girl on the ground," cries Sam Smith. "I say you are another; she is not a Pointer, but an Old Towner, and she is not half so pretty as Bet Brunette," cries Tom Trump; "and if you want to fight about it, I am your man, and ready for all of your cowardly Screw- bolt crew. W-h-oool wh--ooo!"7 Thus summoned, the members of the club, of which this horrid whoop was the war-cry, came crowding round, and rudely pushing all other spectators aside, took possession of the battle-ground. A desperate-looking character ad- vanced to the Screwholt, and whispered in his ear, "There are more of us than of them on the ground; chal- lenge him, and we'll give every infernal imp of 'erm brim- stone. " Thus abetted and encouraged, the Screwholt hurled him- selfat the Cold-Chisel,-"Come on, you mean, cowardly, bullying, gouging villains I'm your man, I'll thrash every murdering brute among you; come on, I say 1" The Screwholt now makes a little run, and utters the fiendish yell which is the war-cry of his club. The Cold- Chisel gives the signal to his club in tones equally appall- ing, and he and Samn clinch. "Fair play on all sides!" scream members of the rival clubs. The Cold-Chisel seems likely to cut his way through the Screwholt, when another Screwholt comes to his relief, and now the fight becomes general. Pistols crack,   156      DOINGS IN MARl'LAND, girls scream, yells and curses break from members of the rival cluls, each cheering, inciting the other to des- perate and bloody fray. We turn from the revolting sight, heartsick with contemplating the degradation of our race; and as Tom Trump's insensible body is borne along to the boat, we instinctively follow, and, taking our station by the side of the wounded man, probe for the ball, and render him all the assistance in our power. "Your brute of a beast has killed my sweetheart!" cries Bell Blond. "And your beast of a brute has shivered the timbers of my best lover, and by the infernal furies, I'll pay you for it!" replies Bet Brunetle. The rival beauties now pitch into each other like two colliding locomotives; torn bonnets, flying hair, naked bosoms, cries and tears distinguish this onset, until persons interfere, and, separating the belligerents, compel them on board the boat to refit their dress and cool their tempers. Ten or a dozen men are wounded in the melee, and some of them so badly that it is thought necessary to re-embark the party and make for the city with all the speed of steam. Many a sorrowful heart this pleasure-party will occasion. On the way back to the city, to enliven the company and drive away the blues, the music is again struck up, and again the dancers' heels resound upon the deck. The rival beauties right up a little their dress, plaster their scratches, and enter the list as competitors for invitations, and actually dance over the heads of the youths who are dying--who have died in defense of their worthless charms. Worthless we say; for what is phy- sical beauty alone? It is the least attraction a woman can possess, and only attracts the sensual, who select the casket for its gilded exterior, regardless of the circumstance whether or not a jewel lies within.   OR MATILDA DOUGLAS.        5 Thus, amid drinking, swearing, gambling, fighting, amid floods of rum and forests of oaths, the young ladies of the Eastern Female Education Factory were receiving their first impressions of life and morality. Young minds, soft and pliant as ginger dough, ay, and as sweet, too, if properly handled, are thus being shaped for use by the devil's cake-cutter. And thus, as Committeeman A said, "they are being prepared to represent the fair daughters of this fair land to far-distant nation, of Orient hue, or the island that lies like a drop of dewmon the mane of the dandy-lion." Mattie was not invited to the picnic, because she was "insubordinate" to superiors in not extracting money fromn the pockets of beggars,-money with which to pur- chase gold chains and popularity for Mr. Htickle-you-you- tickle-me-and-we'll-tickle-them-all-so-sly. We mentioned as being at the excursion a beautiful Miss Asp, the pet pupil of this most excellent of principals! She disappeared from society a short time after that day of pleasure; but did not make her dreadful exit until having been used as an engine of torture to Mattie. She had blackened her poor soul with lies, and stained it so deeply that -even Jordan could not wash it clean. "Where is she?" ask the wild shrieks of a heart-broken mother. "Where?" asks the deep curse as it rolls from the lips of her exasperated father. Ask the same question ye who may speak in--thunder- tones at the ballot-box, and ask of those who have charge of our halls of learning. Yes, ask of those who, like the corpse-worm rioting in corruption, riot in the public heart and grow fat I    15$      D 0aotG0s IN 1 A R RYA^D, CHAPTER XXXI. TH1 STAR-CHAMBER OOMMTTEo. "' To hold a place In council, which was once esteemed an honor And a reward for tirtne, hath quite lost Lustre and reputation, and is made A mercenary purchase." CHANGE is written on all things here below, but on nothing more legibly than on polities and politicians. I suppose the doctrine of rotation in power is the correct one; but whenever I hear it advanced, somehow it always brings to my mind the fable of the fox and the flies. How- ever, it is not our intention at this- time to discuss, but only to relate; and now it was that one of those political whirlwinds, which occasionally sweep over the country, rushed through and swept the ins out and the outs in, and produced a change in all the various ramifications of city government, including the Education Factories. Mattie was now shorn of her friends in the School Board and left to the tender mercies of her enemies, for- little as she deserved enemies, such she had,--who has not? Slytickle was her enemy because he could not use her, and Miss Ursa Minor was her enemy bNcause she, Mattie, had superseded that self-complacent lady in a coveted position. Thus Mattie was like a tree standing alone in the midst of a field, unsheltered, unsupported, with the lightning of Slytickle playing around its trunk, ready to strike without a moment's warning, and the Ursa Minor-a beast that murders while it hugs-gnawing at   I         OSR MATILDA DOUGLAS.        159 the root. Alas for poor Mattie! Tie assassin who lurks and waits for his opportunity to strike will find it. The new committee now placed in charge of the Factories we designate as "Star-Chamnber," -and when its secret doings are exposed, all must admit the term is not so , nmalapropos" as at first sight they might suppose. That nefarious tribunal--worthy of the monarch in whose reign it flourished-is not yet quite extinct, and there are more star-chamber courts in the world than those happily re- moved from their influence imagine. The names of the parties composing this committee were as follows: Chairman, Mr. Thomas Abbettor, first in trick, first in trade, and first in the hearts of his ilk; Mr. George Woodmouse, that poor creature who crept in and out the mayor's office; Doctor Huntemupl We do not know where he received his diploma, but certain it is he never ventured further in his profession than a blue- pill or a bowl of salts; and as to his veracity, if he had asserted that the sun rose in the east and set in the west that fact would have been instantly doubted. Yet this man was prominent in home missions, causeway schools, and benevolent societies; one fact, however, is significant, he never was made treasurer I And last, though not least, was that wonderful bald-headed Box, who dealt alike in mattresses and musical instruments. We ask pardon for this allusion to the man's baldness, and would not have made it only for the manner in which it was obtained. He was an old campaigner in school battles, and had thought all the hair off his head in scheming to excoriate refractory teachers who had the audacity to decline truckling to him on all occasions. This nondescript animal had, however, some of the attributes of humnan nature, for, like Lord Steyne, he had a great weakness for Becky Sharp! And now it becomes our painful duty to introduce   1:60     DOINGS IN MARYAND, another,-." what shal we call it?"But the pain is not caused by the fact that we have no name sufficiently char- acteristic by which to salute our new acquaintance, but from that other rankling barb, the stern necessity of telling that he belongs to the class who are called ministers of the gospel I Not in disrespect to his cloth, but for his sweet sake alone we would gladly leave him out of sight, only that our story would be incoherent without his presence. The official relation of this person to the School Board, as treasurer of the funds, gave him a pretext for pragmati cal interference in school affairs, and his itching proclivi- ties incited him to escalade movements for power as well as pay. His Napoleonic ambition scorned to serve, and as he could brook no service, he must either rule or rot We cannot help it, friends; we did not make him a reverend or a conspirator; but since he is both, look at him a little, and then we will tell you about somebody else. The his- tory of all great men is refreshing, and perhaps Parton, of the New York Ledger, whose sketches of such we have much enjoyed, may take up that of these, and, soaring where we sink, tell how those worthies died; we can but tell how they lived.   I OR MATILDA DOUGLAS.      161 CHAPTER XXXII. REV. JOHN M'GILHOOTER. "Bartering his venal wit for sums of gold, He cast himself into the saintlike mould; Groaned, sighed, and prayed while godliness was gain, The loudest bagpipe of the squeaking train." A CABINETMAKER'S shop was situated in a certain alley that faced the rear of a church and parsonage. The worthy pastor of the flock worshiping in this church made frequent visits to the shop and. held long conversations with the workmen. Often he talked on ordinary subjects, but more frequently on those of serious import. "Peradventure," said the old soldier of the cross, "' a shaft from a bow drawn at a venture' may strike between the joints of the harness.'" The work done at the shop was itself suggestive of serious thought, and such opportunities were always im- proved by this visitor to lead the minds of those present to the consideration of important truths. Laying his hand upon a coffin in/ course of construction, he would contrast the simplicity of this last receptacle of earth's ambitious sons with the ostentatious dwellings they love to inhabit, and which, in towering pride, rear their bold fronts in the face of heaven, rank with the blood of souls. "Look," said the aged minister of Christ, " at this narrow house of four corners, a lining and a pillow; in this man- sion no gorgeous suites of apartments are prepared for the sumptuous entertainment of the owner's guests. The "*   162      DOINGS IN MARYAND, social worm is his only companion, and he is so humbled as not to recoil from the loathsome embrace, but permits the reptile to wanton in those charms of face and person to which he himself had bowed in adoration and owned no greater God. In building this house, you make no pro- vision for luxurious baths to purify and cleanse the pam- pered flesh; ah, no! the inhabitant festers in his own corruption, and asks neither stergent nor perfume. No well-filled larder for honorable guests is here prepared; the host is himself the larder for an uninvited company that cling to his lips, take quite away his hand, and riot in the inmost recesses of his heart. They are not needed here, windows of variegated glass, to cast a dazzling and deceptive hue on the inhabitants within; even the beauti- ful windows of the soul, those reflectors of immortal thought, into whose depths we all so much love to gaze, are closed in darkness, and, drooping their curtains, securely veil the secrets of their master's fate. And, ah I my friends, what is his fate?-that's the great consideration. Is he like Lazarus, sheltered from all the ills that checkered an eventful life in Abraham's bosom, or when removed to this narrow house that you prepare, must his horror-stricken spirit cry, 'Farewell, happy fields of life,-hail horrors, hail infernal world!-and thou, profoundest hell, receive thy new possessor'?" Thus did this earnest laborer in his Master's cause sow the seeds of suggestive thought and serious reflection by the highways and byways of life, if happily he might- harvest for the bundle of his Lord. Among the workmen employed in this shop was John McGilhooter, or as his brother chips contemptuously called him, Jack and Gill. He was not liked by his fellow work- men on account of the fractious and envious disposition he evinced; constantly complaining, and hearteating every-   OR MATILDA .DOUGLAS.       163 body's success, he seemed to view all things in life through a prism of green and yellow jealousy. When sent to con- vey a coffin, per order, if to a poor man's house the homely structure of pine belonged, that could not excite his jaun- diced envy; but the cents upon the dead man's eyes stirred up his bitterest bile, and he would exclaim to his fellow- workmen, "Why this useless display of money? If the fellow won't keep his eyes shut without being bribed to it, why, let him lay and stare.'f If to the residence of wealth his business procured him admission, he glared with an evil eye upon every external evidence of opulence and refinement. The long piece of crape floating at the door would excite his wrath, and call forth a querulous whine. "I do not see," he would exclaim, "why people who have more money than they have use for, do not put it into a common fund for those who have none. The cost of this coffin alone, that is to go into the ground and nobody see it, with its silver plate and handles, its screws and velvet outside and satin in,-just the cost of this coffin alone would set a poor man up in business; but selfish and self-suffi- cient wealth never thinks of pinching poverty. I hope to Heaven the rich will find the camel's eye an infernally tight place, and Jordan a devilish road to travel!"Like the thievish Judas, who exclaimed, "Why was all this waste of precious ointment? why was its value not given to the poor?" was John McGilhooter; not that he cared for the poor, but because of his envious and avaricious heart. When a man has joyful or boastful news to communi- cate he goes to his club with it, no matter where that club may meet, perhaps at the corner of the street, under the "gas-light," or in apartments that cost thousands of dollars to furnish, and into which it will cost hundreds to gain admission,-no matter where the club meets but   164      DOI2NGS IN MARYAND, there he takes his pleasant face. On the contrary, let sor- row overtake him; let discontent gnaw at his heart; let him have spleen to disgorge; ah, yes I then he goes to his wife I She, poor creature, must bear his burden of life and her own. "Well!" exclaimed John McGilhooter, throwing him- self into a chair, " wife, I don't know what the Almighty ever made this world for, anyhow; for my part, I am tired of life; I hate this world and everybody in it." "Poor compliment to me," said the meek little wife, a sickly smile fainting on her lips. He continued: "I have come to the determination to make an effort to retrieve my fortune; I am tired of a life of labor, and I mean to live by my wits." "So that we live better than we do now I shall be glad," said the wife, who did not dare to contradict him, though her heart trembled for fear that he contemplated the desertion of herself and children. "What do you in- tend doing?" she asked, timidly. "I intend to enter one of the learned professions, where fellows make money easily, and are respected and flattered, and have poor devils take off their hats to them, and stand on one side to let them pass." John's wife looked dreadfully alarmed. "He is going deranged; I thought it would come to this," was her pain- ful reverie. He continued: ",I intend to be a clergyman, because it requires less ability and less education to be a clergyman than it does to enter either of -the so-called learned pro- fessions; and, besides, a clergyman has more influence in society than most other men: he has the'ears of the women, and very often their hearts, too; of course,' then, he is a great man with plenty of money." "He is getting too grand for me and the children,"   be1'      OR MATILDA DOUGLAS.       165 thought the poor little wife, the meek little wife, the alarmed little wife, with moistened eyes; " and we shall be cast off like an old snakeskin when he comes out in his grand profession." She timidly inquired: "But, John, how do you expect to accomplish all this?--you have neither friends nor money." "I see where I can get a friend; I intend to apply for advice to the Rev. Mr. Goodman; he often visits our shop and gives us good talk about heaven and all that; he will be only too happy to think he has made a convert; and I mean to tell him I am under concern for my soul, though, to tell the truth, my body gives me more concern than my soul, for I don't know that I have one; but I have a plan, at any rate, and I mean to come on the old fellow care- fully, and after awhile I'll tell him I feel a call to preach the gospel, though my call is to fill my pocket,"--slapping his pocket,-" but the old fellow will be so happy to think he has accomplished so much, and 'gathered one straw,' as he says, 'for the bundle of his Lord ;' and I shall be so happy to think I sha'n't have to work any more, and we'll both be so happy that we'll shake hands over it, and shed tears over it, and the old fellow will pray over it, and I shall laugh over it,--hal hal hal"And John ran off laughing, the first time his Wife had heard him laugh for years. "Did you hear the news?" said one of the workmen at the cabinetmaker's shop, running in rosy with fun and glee. "No! what?" they all exclaimed. "Why, our Gill has become a Pint,--Jack is studying divinity I I always said that fellow was too lazy to work." "We'll all go and hear him preach," spoke the work- men in a breath.   166      DOINGS IN MAR YA2'D,  "I Yon will. hear him read what some one else has written; and now there is another added to the list of clerical loafers,-the Rev. John McGilhooter," said the  first speaker. Our new reverend received a call, after having passed through the mill; but somehow he did not suit the con-  gregation that called him, and he was so entirely neglected,  that he came nearer to starvation than when he made coffins for a living. After various gyrations, we find him Treasurer to the Board of School Commissioners, and at   the time of our introduction, straining with might and  main after the General Superintendence of the School Sys- - tem in Maryland to be a king over beggars! the highest : ambition of this plenipotentiary of Heaven. CHtAPTER    XXXIII. MR. THOMAS ABBETTOR.  "Which is the villain? Let me see his eyes, That when I note another man like him  I may avoid him."  A MAN, for want of industry and a trade, reduced to the last extremity of poverty, and finding it impossible to sup- port existence longer without some change in his worldly condition, hit upon the following expedient: he caused his wife to go forth to the world and proclaim the death of her husband, to represent her condition as destitute in the ex- treme, and to solicit aid in any and every shape. The plan  succeeded; the woman was furnished with a coffin, with a suit of clothes in which to dress the corpse, and with    OR MATILDA DO UGLAS.       16 money sufficient to defray the expenses of the funeral. "She could not bear," she said, "that stranger hands should touch the much-loved clay," so by herself she dressed the body in its burial-clothes, and laid it in the coffin. All day long the kindly neighbors dropped in for a few moments to view the corpse, to speak a word of comfort to -the sorrowing widow, and to leave a mite of means. When the lonely hours of darkness arrived, those in which ghosts walk the earth, the dead man decamped, and took his coffin with him. With this last he cooked his break- fast, and with the money thus obtained he purchased rum, and, renting a shanty in a dissolute part of the city, opened a penny grog-shop. A chalked board put forth in front of the house conveyed the information that "rags and old iron" were bought there. When the gains increased sufficiently to warrant an ex- tension of business, the rag merchant bought old clothes, broken pots, patched blankets, and eventually he bought anything that anybody had to sell, from a rusty nail to a man's soul. He found the business a profitable one; in his hands the old rags turned to gold; and how beautifully he turned the penny, the following incident will illustrate: Owners of property in Mr. Abbettor's neighborhood, loathing to come in contact with such squalid scenes, gave to that gentleman, who applied for the job, the collector- ship of rents. This kind of work was well suited to his business capacity; none knew better than Mr. Abbettor how to squeeze moisture from a dry pocket. In one of the little huts of which he had charge there lived an aged woman, who had been many years a widow, lonely and childless, poor and friendless. The deceased husband of this woman had been a sailor, and worked on boardh steamer; he was a bright fellow, remarkable for his agility,   168      DOINGS IN MARYAND, and a splendid swimmer. On one occasion, among the passengers on board this steamer, was a gentleman, who had with him his little daughter, a child some six years old, accompanied by its nurse. The father, of course, par- tially resigned the almost infant to the care of its attend- ant, who proved unworthy of the trust, for, unobserved, / the child climbed the side of the boat, lost its balance, and in a moment more would have been food for fishes had not our sailor heard the plunge, and, plunging after, bore back the young scion to the arms of its panic-stricken nurse and pale-as-death father. On the spot the father gave tangible evidence of his deep feeling: he presented the noble sailor with a purse well filled, and that not being -sufficient to empty his overflowing heart, he added his elegant, silver- mounted, rosewood dressing-case, and this dressing-case is now our subject. It was unique in form, and superbly fur- nished with everything pertaining to a gentleman's toilet. Sets of the best razors, brushes of every description, shav- ing-boxes of beautiful workmanship, silver-topped bottles of rare perfume, silver toothpicks, penknives, paper-knives, then, bv a secret spring, there opened a secretary filled with every kind of material necessary for writing,-except the brains, of course. This elegant and useful article, that had cost hundreds of dollars, in the first flush of parental grat- itude was laid at the poor sailor's feet. Said the father, "I have nothing too good for him who rescued my little motherless Alice from a watery grave." The honest recipient is long since dead, the money long since spent, but the box--oh, that mute yet eloquent evidence of her husband's chivalry --the lone widow has kept as sacredly as her heart's blood, and would as soon part with the one as the other. Carefully rolled in layers of cotton, and wrapped in folds of flannel, for fear the en- vious air would rob it of its luster, that box was laid away   OR M'ATILDA DOUGLAS.      169 like a loved infant is laid to sleep. Occasionally it was shown to visitors, and the incident of the presentation told for the thousandth time, when, with a smile and a tear, the widow would exclaim, "Now, was not my husband a noble, manlv fellow?"The box was then rewrapped and kissed, and laid away. In periods of deep anxiety,-and those were many,--when despair, with his grim frown, would stare the lone woman almost into madness, when sleepless nights were added to starving days, she would get the box, lay it by her side, cover it with the bedclothes, and, with her arm thrown over it, at last soothed by the magic of its touch, sweetly sleep and dream of other davs. The memorial of his valor brought back such memories of the loved and lost. When it was by her side, the widow seemed to feel his presence still, and thought, per- haps, he yet lingered near to bless. The winter had been an unusually severe one. The old woman had been sick and unable to work; everything she possessed had been sold to purchase life,-everything except the precious box. Mr. Abbettor, as we said, col- lected the rent of the wretched kennel occupied by the more wretched woman, and every day found him at the door, eager to glean a part of whatever the hand of charity might sulply to the invalid. If a kind one brought a pound of sugar or a paper of tea, Mr.- Abbettor must have part to help pay the rent. ! He sold tea and sugar by the cent's worth, and these small arrivals suited the business of his establishment quite as well as any. One day, being on the lookout, he saw a lady with a basket on her arm enter the lodging of the sick woman. He knew that scraps would be there now, and he determined to have his share. The poor old creat- urie had learned to dread the turkey-buzzard that came to tear away the cold bones dispensed by the hand of charity,   170     DOINGS IN MARYAND, and lately she had been in the habit of hiding from his rapacity what she could not immediately use. He sus- pected the fact, and determined to be even with the " old screw," as he called her, by entering the place before the visitor had departed. On this fatal occasion he put his resolve into practice. The ministering angel who had come with good cheer this time had been more than usually bountiful, and the heart of the poor sick woman overflowed with gratitude. She felt, as noble natures always do, a desire to make a return for kindness, and this had been an unusual display. But what had the des- titute woman to give? Only a sight of the precious box. This, then, was produced, and the eloquent declaimer of her husband's fame was in full flood of glorious recital when -oh, horrors whose shadow darkens the door?-Abbet- tor's! The sight of the box transfixed him to the spot, and from that moment its fate was sealed. Nothing now would pay the rent but that box; the rent must be paid, and that box must pay it. Day and night he haunted the hut, and his constant howl was box, box, box I "I have nothing upon God's earth left me now but that box," cried the poor woman, wringing her hands. "Oh, in his holy name, let me keep it till I die I I shall not live long, and I did intend having that box put into my coffin and buried with me; but if you will let me keep it until I die, I promise it to you. I will give you a writing to prove it is yours at my death. But let, oh, let- me keep it until then!" The monster's clutch was on it, and as well might she have asked a hungry tiger to release his tongue from lapping blood as to ask this brute in human form for pity. She had not thought to place the precious relic in the keeping of some one else for safety (and here  was her mistake), because she could not sometimes sleep unless it was by her side; so Mr. Abbettor, by violence,    ' -,     OR MATILDA DOUGLAS.        17 gained possession of the prize, and bore it away amid shrieks and Wails of anguish that would have pierced any heart save that which had lain in a coffin. The next charitable visitor found the old woman dead. The loss of the box had broken her heart, had severed the last tie that bound her to existence. The poor, weather- beaten bark could bear no more; it went down with this last surge of the billow, and the one lonely, frightened, fluttering spirit on board took wing to join its messmate on the far-off shore where Mr. Abbettor will come to trouble it no more. Upon obtaining possession of the elegant appendage of luxury, Mr. Abbettor sent it up-town to a fashionable variety store for exhibition and sale. A lady from a dis- tance was making purchases in the store, and catching sight of the case, exclaimed, "Oh, that dressing-case is the perfect image of one owned by my father, and which he presented to a sailor who saved my life. I shall pur- chase it for a present to my husband. What do'you ask for it?" she inquired of the shopman. "Two hundred dollars," was the reply. "La, how cheap P" exclaimed the lady, as she counted out the money and gave directions for the delivery of the case. And thus and so, beautifully did Mr. Abbettor turn the pennies; and with funds thus acquired he opened a policy office, and after awhile, by means of the "fool's fence," he was enabled to join a company of property speculators. He had ere this emerged from his den of rum and rags; and now he purchased a fashionable residence in a fash- ionable part of the city, knocked at the door of fashion- able society, and gained admission. Yes, gained admission into society that would have considered his degraded his- tory as improbable as a fairy tale, or as fit entertainment only for an Arabian's night, so rapidly did Mr. Abbettor I    17 2     DOINGS INV MARYAND, make his tortuous way-not from the palace to the coffin, as is the usual course of nature, but from the coffin to the palace! When we next hear of the precious scamp, it will not be a dying old wonma, but Mattie Douglas, whom the coffin-presser and palace possessor will have on the tenter-hooks of torture and imposition. CHAPTER XXXIV. "ETTERS. "Full oft have letters caused the writers To curse the day they were inditers." THERE is no more infallible method by which to test the relative position of parties than by reading their letters. A letter may try to deceive, but, like the human eye, it speaks a language unknown to itself, and only deceives those who deceive themselves, by disregarding the decisions of their better judgment, and listening to the siren Hope. Read the letters of persons socially or officially connected, and you will readily discover who is the master and who the servant. Read the letters of pretending lovers, and you can soon distinguish the loving party from the indif- ferent one, no matter how much affectation of sentiment may be thrown in. Read the letters of professors of religion when on that subject, and the sincerity of the one or hypoc- risy of the other can be as easily distinguished as a blush from a frown. Such volumes do letters speak that experts of the present day say they can tell from a letter the age, sex, social habits,-in short, can delineate both soul and  body of the writer. Beware of letters I   :t     OR MATILDA DOUGLAS.       173 Mr. Abbettor (Chairman of the Educational Committee) to Mr. Slytickle, Principal of the Eastern Education Fac- tory: -"SIR,--In a few days, my friend, Mr. Jonathan Toad- eater, will be before the public as a candidate for the office a  of Superintendent of the Frog Ponds in and around the city. I wish you to give him all the assistance in your power, both directly and indirectly, and to that effect you will write articles for publication in the Daily Humbug, and such articles I wish forwarded to me for inspection previous to publication. "Yours, etc., "T. M. ABBETTOR." Mr. Slytickle to Mr. Abbettor: "MY VERY DEAR SIR,--Your note of   is received, and I comply most cheerfully with your commands in this as in everything else. Your wish is my law in all things, and I am happy to have the honor to be your most obedi- ent humble servant, "N. H. SLYTICKLE." Mr. Abbettor to Mr. Slytickle: "SIR,-I return your article written for the Daily Hum- bug; it is too short, by far, and not sufficiently eulogistic of Mr. Toadeater; besides, it does not dwell with suffi- cient warmth upon the utility of the office which we are endeavoring to induce the people to establish. We wish you to put forth such a paper as shall alarm the public mind with terrible apprehensions of yellow fever, cholera, and typhoid, typhus, and high bilious, with all the horrid 15*   17 4     DOINGS IN MARYAND, diseases to which a city is subject. Give it out that the frog ponds are an awful nuisance, and, as they are every- body's business, per consequence they are nobody's busi- ness; hence the necessity that exists for an officer whose duty shall be their inspection, and the preservation of the city from malarious influence. I am most anxious that Mr. Toadeater should obtain a public position, because I count on his assistance in any manner I shall direct in my plans for the filture. I have an eye to the mayoralty of the city, and of course shall want wire-pullers, pipe-layers, and all the machinery of a political campaign. When I obtain that important position I shall not forget those who assisted me up the ladder. Now think of that! Write a long article and a strong article, and you may write in school hours if you can get one of the other teachers to take charge of your class without giving her an inkling of what you are about. Y "Yours, etc., "T. M. ABBETTOR." Mr. Slytickle to Mr. Abbettor': "VERY DEAR SIR, -I hope the accompanying article will please you this time. I have made it much longer than at the first, and clothed the ideas in language as strong as I can command. I wrote in school hours, as you kindly permitted. Miss Douglas took charge of my class in addi- tion to her own. She is a most capable teacher, but in my humble opinion a little too high-toned in sentiment and in- dependent in action for a subordinate. She speaks of a higher law than the caprice of committees, and says the teacher's conscience should be a law to himself. I don't like such sentiments; I am for doing what I am told and asking no questions; but to judge from the involuntary   X1:         OR MATILDA DOUGLAS.        ITK expression of her eye, and the unguarded curl of her lip, I should think Miss Douglas has no respect for me at all. I X   aim afraid she will prejudice the Board and the community against me. I appeal to you, honored sir, for protection. Now, Miss Ursa Minor, it must be admitted, is not so faithful in the discharge of her duty, but then she is very humble to superiors, and that, in my eyes, hides a multitude of sins. "Your most obedient humble servant, "N. . SLYTICKLE." CHAPTER XXXV. X            .AN EXAMNATION. "How many cowards, whose hearts are all as false As stairs of sand, wear upon their chins The beards of Hercules and flowing Mars, Who, inward searched, have livers white as milk!" THAT dreaded ordeal, an examination, is again at hand. Mr. Slytickle, in great perturbation, has summoned his coadjutors to a cabinet council. He addresses the assem- bly: "You are aware that I have had a great deal of writing to do lately, but I must not tell you what it was about, because it is a secret of Mr. Abbettor's. Well, the point at issue, and a sharp point it is, is simply this, the exam- ination is at hand and my classes are unprepared. I could not write and teach both at the same time, and I could not bother you ladies with my classes more than once or twice, and the probable consequence will be their failure.   176    "  DOINGS IN MARYAND, Now, then, the trouble is just here: how am I to account to the Board for this failure? I dare not say that I spend my time in writing for members of the committee I My object in calling you together, though I don't mean any- thing, is to ask what you would suggest under the cir- cumstances, for something must be done." Deep silence on the part of coadjutors. "Well, I see you have-nothing to suggcest, but I have. In the first place, however, I wish to introduce to you our distinguished committee, and you don't know them to be a set of unprincipled rascals-I do; but of course I don't mean anything. Now, the only way to fight the devil is to meet him on his own ground. They trick and truckle, we must do the same; that is, if I mean any- thing, I mean the committee. Now, when you have Satan to deal with, soap him, and while the suds are in his eyes do with him what you please. I could not live an hour without suds!-that is, I mean live professionally. And I will tell you why. If the school succeeds, the com- nittee takes the credit; if it fails, then mine be the curse. What heart, then, have teachers to work? I answer, none I Therefore my maxim is, trick and truckle." Miss Ursa Minor smiled most approvingly, but poor, un- sophisticated Mattie opened her intensely luminous eyes with a stare that was frightful. "I see, Miss Douglas," said Slytickle, " that you are very much astonished. Be so good as to give your opinion on the subject." "I have given it on former occasions," she replied, "and it remains unchanged. The teacher's conscience must be his reward when he has no other. And, indeed, he should be able at all times to draw consolation from that :-, source--  j'r Slytickle impatiently interrupted, "Miss Douglas, you   OR MATILDA DOUGLAS.        1" have been raised and lived in such seclusion that you are quite behind the age. You must therefore excuse me for not adopting your obsolete ideas; besides, in this emer- gency something must be done at once, and, as I said, fight the rascals with their own weapons, and therefore I propose that we supply our classes with their text-books, and when they have a difficult question turn out backs and let them help themselves." Mattie was no diplomatist, and she spoke with warmth: "Two wrongs can never make a right. If the committee be as you say, unprincipled, that is no reason why we should be so too. For my part, I would shudder to teach to those young and pliant minds, placed under our charge for a better purpose, such a lesson of practical duplicity. Our pupils would be aware, of course, that we were con- niving with them to cheat the committee; and what respect could they entertain for teachers who would thus voluntarily debase themselves to obtain a petty advantage? Far better for teachers and pupils both to fail honestly than to succeed ignobly; for vain indeed must be our pre- cepts of morality when our example opposes with its liv- ing force the maxims of honor and integrity which, with well-becoming grace, we daily teach." Said Slytickle, with a sneer and sarcasm which he did not try to conceal, "You preach beautifully, Miss Doug- las, and if you are ever so situated as to be able to practice your own sermons you will be more fortunate than I have been in this world. Your sentiments might be carried out on Pitcairn Island, but never in young America I As I said before, we must meet the devil with his own argu- ment, and to trick and truckle is the only way to get along with school committees." "I have never either tricked or truckled," said Mattie, "and yet I am well satisfied with my success. And I am ?   178      DOINGS 1XN MARYAND, willing to rest my claims to professional respectability upon an examination of my classes at any time." "But then you have not been kept writing for these dogs of committeemen as I have, and consequently, as a matter of course, your classes are in a better condition than mine!"This last was said by Mr. Slytickle with the most impatient gesture, and with a flush of the brow and a gleam of his snaky eye that told the whole story. He feared a comparison of his classes with those of Mat- tie's, and hence the effort to draw her into complicity, and thus secure more than one ulterior object. A profound silence followed this outhurst. Mattie was about to retire, when Slytickle called her back. L Miss Douglas, I wish to say a word to you in private.' Mattie returned and entered the recess of a window. Slytickle advanced close, and commenced a conversation intended to be very confidential. Mattie perceived that his breath was heavily laden with the odor of spice and spirit. He spoke: "Now, Miss Douglas, I know you are an honorable person, and will not betray me, therefore I confide to you my private opinion of these humbug commissioners whom we have to conciliate. They are a set of contemptible beggars on horseback, and they ride rough-shod over peo- ple better than themselves, and they gloat on misery which their official position enables them to inflict upon poor teachers.  "I think you are unnecessarily severe upon the comrn missioners," said Mattie. ' I have always found them to be my friends." "They will not be your friends or mine one moment longer than suits their purpose or whim; and if they once take a prejudice against you, the highest ability, or the faithfulness of years, will not weigh one feather in the   OR MATILDA DOUGLAS.        179 balance of their resentment. Look at the treatment the former Principal of this school received, and such may be mine or yours at any moment; so guard against a reverse, and fight the villains with their own weapons; but mind, I don't mean anything." "What weapons?" asked Mattie. "Do you see anything practiced by our rulers but fraud and trickery? but mind, I don't mean anything," he re- plied. "I can never practice fraud or trickery, and if those are the weapons you mean, I must decline the battle," she replied, with dignity. "But I think you unneces- sarily alarmed; the case is not so desperate as you appre- hend." "Lord, girl, what a novice you are!" he exclaimed abruptly, insolently, while a look like a gleam from perdi- tion passed over his Cassius-cut face, shot through his catlike eyes, drew down his beaked nose, and bolted through Mattie's fluttering heart like a ball of ice. She retired to her home feeling uncomfortable, and yet knew not why; but a secret intuition oppressed her with the belief that Slytickle was manoeuvring for the accom- plishment of some object other than the one expressed. But what could it be?"I have none to counsel me in this matter," she said to herself, " and am too unacquainted with the diplomacy of the world to adopt any. I can but pursue the one undeviating path of honor and rectitude, and take the consequence." Then melekly folding her hands upon her breast, she raised her eyes to heaven and ejaculated, "O God, give me bread for my father,--that is all I ask." Miss Ursa Minor had drawn near while Slytickle and Mattie were conversing, cautiously approaching, and hold- ing her hand behind her ear to catch every word, if pos-   180      DOINGS IN MARYAND, sible. At the termination, she flew to her father, "Thank t Heaven," she exclaimed, "there is a chance for me yet ll' "What do you mean?" inquired the meek man of the white cravat. "I mean that Miss Douglas has incurred the displeasure of Mr. Slytickle, and sooner or later she will feel the con- sequence. For as he cringes to those placed over him in position, so he expects those under him to be equally duc- tile." The Gordian knot, which could not be untied, was hap- pily cut, and Mr. Slytickle relieved for the time from his perplexity. Making a virtue of necessity, he informed Mr. Abbettor of the unprepared condition of his classes, and as that gentleman was not done with his wire-puller, he permitted the use of books at the examination, thus covering the failure of his instrument and keeping it safely for future use. Mattie was astonished at the changed bearing of her Principal. From a dogged and sullen de- spondency, he suddenly emerged into a gay and super- cilious jocularity. He stalked about the school, or sat astride the pupils' desks, with the air of a monarch. He countermanded every order given by the other teachers, and informed everything around, even the stove-pipe, against which he tattooed, that he was master there, as some would find to their cost dooking askance at Mattie), and others to their no small gratification (with a bow and a smile to Miss Ursa Minor).   XI        OR MATILDA  DOUGLAS.       181 CHAPTER XXXVI. "'i t      MORE LETTERS. Il          "Liveloathed and long, You smiling, smooth, detested parasite; Courteous destroyers, affable wolves, meek bears, You fools of fortune, trencher friends, time flies, Cap-and-knee slaves, vapors, and minute-jacks, Of man and beast the infinite malady, Crusts you quite o'er." X MR. ABBETTOR to Mr. Slytickle: "SIR,--The result of your examination is highly satisfac- tory to the Board, which has complimented both you and nmyself upon the flourishing condition of our school; and now, in return for this piece of kindness on my part, I want you to assist me in another matter. "Our friend Toadeater is off our hands, and now we will try our strength on the Rev. John McGilhooter. After we have helped him up the ladder, we shall expect him to help us; be assured, we do not intend to work for nothing I Now keep this fact in view, because a nian always works with more heart when he knows that he is working to benefit himself. Mr. McGilhooter cannot live by preaching, his heart is not in that work; but I think we can furnish him with something that will suit his ec- centric ability. Genius, you know, is always eccentric; and the great genius of Mr. McGilhooter lies in his being able to direct what he could not do himself. In this re- spect he is powerful; and this is just the ability requisite for a superintendent of the schools, so you see we have "6   182     DOINGOS I2 MARYANTD, found the man; and now, if we can get the public to en- tertain the same opinion, all will be well. This same public, however, is a queer animal to deal with sometimes, and requires a good deal of training, coaxing, and manipu- lation; and now, having arrived at the point, I want you to understand it square. We must begin with the teachers, and we want them to collect nioney among themselves, and present Mr. McGilhooter with a set of silver. The presentation must be made public, and this will be step number one. Get this far in the job and then I shall give you further instructions. "Yours, etc., "T. M. ABBETTOR." Mr. Slytickle to Mr. Abbettor: HONORED SIR,-I have complied with your request: drawn up the subscription petition, and obtained the sig- natures of all the teachers whom I have seen, except that of Miss Douglas. She says she hlas not the funds to spare; but that, you know, cannot be true. I do not be- lieve she has one particle of respect for either you or my- self, or McGilhooter either, although he is a minister of the gospel. This girl's eye says what her lips cautiously re- fuse; but she cannot deceive me, I read her like a book; and, to tell you the truth, dear friend, I hate her I I can- not like those who do not like you, and I am sure this girl does not; but you know I don't mean anything. "I am thankful to you for your favorable representation to the Board, and shall be most happy to evince my gratitude in any manner nmost acceptable to you and your friends. "Your most obedient and humble servant, "iN. H. SLYTICKLE."   X         2OR MATILDA DOUGLAS.       183 183 Slytickle to Miss Douglas: "DEAR Miss DOUGLAS,--I regret your absence from school for the past few days. The committee has been here, and, of course, that old granny Abbettor; he is a perfect old nose-poke, and, without meaning anything, I took him into your room. He opened your desk and found some scraps of paper, upon which he said you were a sloven, and not fit to train children into habits of neatness. Should anything unpleasant arise from this incident, pray don't blame me. I hope your health is improved. Like the great Pope, I write on the back of a letter. "Your devoted friend, "N. EH. S." Mr. Abbettor to Mr. Slytickle: SIR,-I'll give that Douglas girl thunder one of these days; but business first and pleasure afterwards, is my motto; so now for the next step in our plan of operations. You must be present nIext Sunday at the West End Chapel to hear a sermon that McGilhooter will preach there and then. I am helping to write the sermon, so you may be sure it will be a tip-top affair! and this we want vou to say as soon as you have heard it, and to request the ves- try to have it published in pamphlet form. Now, this result must be accomplished, so no trifling in the matter I Perhaps I may explain the motive to you at another time; but for the present, ask no questions. In addition to the above, we want you to get up a petition requesting McGil- hooter not to retire from the service of the Board ; and this petition must be sent to all the schools for the signatures of the teachers, commencing, of course, at the Factories for the sake of example.  And here I may as well tell   184     DOINGS IN MARYAND, you that the object of this petition is to influence the bishop of the diocese to which our reverend belongs. This superintendent of sacred livers says Mac. is becom- ing morally bilious, he is gathering the carbon of the world too rapidly for his spiritual health; or, in clergy words, he is grasping too vigorously after the filthy lucre contained in the flesh-pots of Egypt, and he must return to his ministerial duties and be content with heavenly manna,-a poor exchange, I should say. I would rather have the contents of the pots. However, to quiet B. for the present, we wish to get up a petition from the teach- ers of all our schools, requesting Mac. to remain where he is. In the mean time, who can tell what may turn up?- Mac. may astonish both B. and the world. The set of silver was beautiful, and the presentation very fine,-that part is at least secure; and never fear for the future: our day will come, we do not work for nothing! Keep that fact in view, and don't weary in well-doing. When I am mayor of the city, you may claim any office of honor and profit that is at my disposal. "Yours, etc., "T. M. ABBETTOR." Slytickle to Abbettor: "HONORED SIR,--Miss Douglas declines signing the petition which requests Mr. McGilhooter to remain in the employ of the Board. She says if he is called to the min- istry, he should not abandon the holy work and serve tables; also that the bishop is right in urging his return to ministerial duties.- I am beginning to entertain a hor- rible suspicion about Miss Douglas ; I really think she is one of the strong-.minded women I The Lord protect me from a strong-minded woman I You know it is said a   t;J^ i        OR MATILDA DOUGLAS.       185 woman s love is dangerous, but her hate is fatal; and though I do not think there is much danger of this one loving me, yet I dread her hate; so I must entreat you to shield me from the consequence of this candid communica- tion. I shall, of course, be at church on next Sabbath, as you direct, and shall eulogize Mr. McGilhooter's sermon, whatever'it may be, and urge the publication of the same upon the vestry. I congratulate his reverence upon hav- ing such valuable aid as you can afford him in the construc- tion of his sermon! It cannot fail to be a superior literary effort I If there is anything else, sir, that you wish me to do, be so kind as to inforln me. I have no greater happi- ness in life than to obey your commands. I have the honor to be, sir, "Your most obedient, humble servant, N. H. SLYTICKLE." "The poor, weak-minded fool!" exclaimed Abbettor, after glancing at the above, ,' but with such tools we must work our way. Heigh-ho!"   186      DOINGS IN MARYAND, CHAPTER XXXVII. SECRET CONCLAVE-STAR-CHAMBER COMMTTEE. "Thy currish spirit Governed a wolf who hang'd for human slaughter; Even from the gallows did his fell soul fleet, And whilst thou lay'st . . . . Infused itself in thee; for thy desires Are wolfish, bloody, starved, and ravenous." MR. ABBETTOR directed Mr. Sly tickle to say no more to Miss Douglas on the subject of signing papers. He was coming to the school soon, he said, and he would make her sign, or he would sign her dismissal. He did not reflect, perhaps he did not know, that in the deep- est channel of that girl's veins there flowed a current dripped from a race who, with their blood, had registered their names upon the pages of history rather than sub- scribe to that which their principles disavowed. "Follow to his burrow beneath the earth the stern dissenter; see him worn with disease, clung with famine, and when you, sing of faith and fortitude, forget not the meek, the bold, the patient, the gallant patriot of Scotland." As soon as Mr. Abbettor had got McGilhooter's sermon written and preached, and had had time to take a long breath, he made his promised- visit to the school. Ap- proaching Mattie, he remarked, with a good deal of stern- ness in his manner,- "Miss Douglas, it is my wish that you sign this paper. We shall excuse your money, of which you seem to be very careful,"-this with a sneer. "The testimonial to a   OR MATILDA DO UGLAS.       187 most worthy gentleman was obtained without your aid, and as your signature to this paper will cost you nothing," -with another sneer,-"I request that you will attach it." Said Mattie, politely, but with a firmness unpardonable in a woman, "Mr. Abbettor, I have already declined to sign that paper, for reasons which, to my mind, are per- fectly satisfactory and sufficient. If you' please, then, I would rather not be importuned any more on the subject. Indeed, my signature is of so little importance that I am surprised at the request being so often repeated." t"Your position gives importance to your acts," he re- plied, sharply, " and we wish the example of teachers in the higher grade of schools to influence those of the lower. Besides, as a principle of obedience between officials and subordinates,"-very haughtily,--" we insist upon our views being carried out." "So far as school duties are concerned, sir, I admit that you are perfectly right in exacting obedience; but this is a matter foreign to the management of classes, or, indeed, to any of the known responsibilities of teachers, conse- quently a subject on which private opinion may be in- dulged." "I, for one, don't indulge opinions in a woman 1" he ex- claimed, in a voice hissing hot, " and you astonish me so much that I conclude we never know a woman until we find her out." Rolling his " baneful eyes" around in quest of something with which to find fault, he seethed out be- tween his lips quivering with rage, "How is this?--your class leave the room, badly, they go one before the other 1'" "They cannot go abreast, sir," said Mattie, "the door will not admit them." "But one elbowed her neighbor aside and passed on g         . \   188      DOINGS IN MARYAND,       ' before," said the petticoat tyrant, evidently delighted at finding a subject for complaint be it ever so small. "That elbowing a neighbor aside and passing on before seenis to b-l-the way of the world,' said Mattie, smiling; "but if you will designatethe offender in this instance, I will reprimand her for her breach of etiquette." Mr. Abbettor did not deign a reply, but hastening to Slytickle, exclaimed," I've got her now, and you'll hear thunder soon!" In violent bustle he entered the Com- missioners' office and directed the clerk to issue orders for the immediate attendance of the committee in extra ses- sion. Business of the utmost importance, he said, de- manded the attention of every member. Each came run- ning. Box started without his hat, but felt the cold upon his bald head so severely that he put back for repairs. Dr. Huntemup was sitting in his office writing letters. Two of those were of such peculiar import that we cannot refrain from mentioning them. One, in which he gave himself a feigned name, was to, a lady, and in it he threatened "to put in circulation a bad report about her if she did not send him five dollars." The other was also to a lady, and in it he informed her that he was in attend- ance upon her rival, and if she would send him the dose, and a certain sum of money, she would find him her Adgandestrius of the Catti  To this letter, also, the healing man affixed a false signature, but one quite differ- ent from the other. And this fact of the dose may give us an insight into the strange manner in which some peo- ple live without any visible means of support, and how others die without any specific disease. Upon receiving the order of the Chairman, the doctor thrust his letters into his pocket and flew to the spot as does the buzzard when scenting either blood or corrup- tion.   OR MATILDA  DOUGLAS.      189 Poor Woodmouse crept timidly and demurely enough out of the mayor's office, and would rather not have met the committee, but the order was imperative. And now the Star-Chamber Committee is in extra session I Let us pray for those whom it has upon the rack. Mr. McGilhooter hearing that cruel sport was in progress, also presented himself by virtue of the right of the "Curious Impertinent." The Chair addressed the committee: he said a circum- stance had transpired at the Eastern Education Factory calculated to destroy the entire school system, and to bring disgrace and infamy upon the thing which they with such superhuman efforts had been laboring to per- fect. "Such an outrage upon decency and propriety was calculated to dishonor public education throughout the world 1"The members held their breath, while horror and astonishment were depicted upon every countenance. The Chair continued: "This outrager of human decency was no other than that she-dragon of that unfortunate men-at-lie (menagerie), the Eastern Factory; but as the committee was composed of refined and sensitive gentle- men, the Chair would not pain their nerves by a recital of vulgarity and insubordination too dreadful to mention, but simply ask a vote of censure to be passed upon the offending party, and this was the lightest punishment her high crime and misdemeanor could justify." Poor Woodmouse timidly asked if Miss Douglas was the person alluded to, and requested the Chair to state the acts of which she had been guilty, when the com- mittee could judge for itself of the nature and amount of punishment due to the delinquent. "What has she done?" screamed the Chair,--" why, sir, she has done everything that a woman can do, and that's no little, to embarrass the prosperity of the school and  190     DOINGS IN MARYAND, torment the life out of poor Slytickle. She is a woman, and yet she presumes to have opinions of her own, and presumes to give them, too, and that in the face of her official superiors. Now, suppose we permit this thing to go on, we shall have all the teachers expressing opinions soon, and then what will become of our authority?" Mr. Woodmouse arose, and remarked that the Chair was deviating from the main point, and failed to answer his question, which was-What had Miss Douglas done to call forth this unusual display of severity against her? The Chair nodded to Dr. Huntemup, who sprang to the floor, exclaiming, "Mr. Chairman, I am for crushing out every indication of self-will on the part of a teacher, espe- cially if that teacher be a woman I Women cannot vote, and therefore they have no right to think! We, the noblest part of God's creation, must vote for them, and think for them, consequently they must be obedient to us and have no opinions but such as we suffer their poor weak skulls to hold. A woman, sir, should be like a chameleon, and reflect only the color of the man standing next to her. If a woman is rich, however, and has landed estate, she may think a little sometimes; but for a poor woman that has to work for her living, like Miss Douglas, to presume to think for herself,-good gracious! what is this world coming to? This thinking privilege, sir, this liberty of opinion, is a mighty quicksilvery affair, or rather a troublesome disease, which, if permitted to pass the quarantine-grounds, soon becomes an epidemic, and there- fore I vote it down in the first stage." Poor Woodmouse made another effort to say that all this waste of words was a divergence from the main point, and that point was the overt act of which Miss Douglas had been guilty. He did not for a moment doubt the honor or veracity of the Chair, but then the committee,   OR MATILDA DOUGLAS.        191 at least fie for one, wanted to hear the precise facts in the case. The Chair ruled Mr. Woodmouse out of order, and directed him to take his seat. The bald-headed Box then arose, and bowing to the Chair, commenced: ( Mr. Chairman, we all know that this fellow Slytickle is a slippery concern, and we can only manage hm by keeping him down like a woman, and if we permit this girl to have opinions, why, of course, we cannot deny them to this snake; and give him but a chance to spring, and he will soon be around our throats. For my part, I would rather have Medusa's head flying and hissing about my ears than that tills double-tongued vil- lain should presume to speak in my presence. When I am by he shall stand with bent brows and downcast look as a slave before his master, because I hate him; but I mean to use him, nevertheless,-and now for nmy plan. AMiss Becky Sharp, of the Western Factory, is not pleased with her position there, and I wish to transfer her to the place held by this Douglas girl, and consequently she must be got rid of in some way, and I mean to make Slyv- tickle do the work without knowing what he is about." Woodmouse made another attempt to get the floor. "Gentlemen," said he, "you had better be careful; Miss Douglas may have friends who will resent her wrongs."' The Chair lifted one of its legs in indignation, and scornfully replied, "We have counted the cost in that quarter. The girl's father is old and. sick, she has no brother, and cannot vote. She has but one tongue, and we can command many, and we can tell a tale that will make each conspicuous tooth to stand on end,' or sozne other way, as Tom  Moore or Milton, or I don't know who, says." At this moment the door burst open, and in rushed   192     DOINGS IN MARYAND, Slytickle all out of breath; he had something of the utmost importance to communicate to the committee, he said. The Chair blandly informed Mr. Slytickle that he had the floor, and requested him to proceed, and so he proceeded. "Gentlemen, I have a most painful duty to perform, but it is due to you, and to the community whose interest I have so much at heart, to make the following disclosure. A few moments since I went into the class-room occupied by Miss Douglas,--she was teaching history, a Compend of Europe,-and, gentlemen,-will you excuse the horrid allusion?-she was actually explaining to her class the origin of the name Europe!" At this terrible announcement, Dr. Huntemup and the depilous Box sprang from their seats as if a clap of thunder had shaken the building, and they ran about the room like tigers looking for a sheep. The Chair was compelled to call them to order. "Be calm, gentlemen, be calm," said the blandest of chairs. "This Chair knows that the facts are affecting, and call forth the noblest indignation of the human heart I Yes, dear gentleten, unless something is done, and done promptly, to check this flood of immorality, the whole community will be demoralized, and I should not wonder if the Alnighty were to sniash up things generally. We must take steps to prevent it." And the righteous Chair sat down. It was then moved and seconded and passed that a vote of censure be pronounced upon Miss Douglas, and read to her in the presence of the school. "And that will be scratch No. 1," said the amiable tiger, Abettor.   OR MATILDA DOUGLAS.        193 CHAPTER XXXVIII. PROPOSAL. Of earthly good the best is a good wife, A bad, the bitterest curse of human life." MRS. PRUDENCE PODINGER was a shrewd old woman; she had seen a great deal of the world, she said, and she whispered in confidence to everybody, "that she had seen very little good in it, either." She kept a sharp lookout on her neighbors, and woe betide the delinquent from the rule of right which this female Lycurgus had established; her sharp tongue would be on him or her, as the case might be, like a whole nest full of exasperated wasps. Ward Beecher says, "A grove brings to his mind a cathe- dral" (but the idea is not original, because Miss Landon advanced it long before), and I dare say thousands have had the same thoughts with myself about busybodies; but certainly they always bring to my mind wasps! Yes, wasps, in all their variety I For there is the white- headed wasp and the white-headed busybody, the small- waisted wasp and the small-waisted busybody,-oh, how many; the hole-digging wasp and the ditch-digging busybody, the short wasp and the long wasp, the short busybody with long tales, and the long busybody with sharp stings. Heaven preserve us from wasps and busy- bodies I If perchance, however, one of Mrs. Podinger's neighbors did come up to the standard of excellence which she had erected for others rather than herself, she gave, as she said, the " devil his due."             A.'   194     DOINVS IN MARt'LAND, Now, it so happened that Mattie's domicile was situated in the same neighborhood with that of the famous Mrs. Podinger, and, consequently, she shared the never-tiring scrutiny of that ever-watchful guardian of public morals. The beldam soon made herself acquainted with all the young teacher's domestic affairs, and was pleased to ex- press herself perfectly charmed with the "gal's" devotion to her father. Said she, "If that gal will make as good a wife as she does a daughter, I wish I could get my son to marry her, for I would ask no better attention to my- self, when I am old and helpless, than she gives to her bedrid father." Mrs. Podinger said, "She did admire, of all things, people who never ceased working; and that was the case with this gal, for when out of school she was sewing for her father, or helping Nannie in the house, and never idle a moment." Mrs. Podinger's family consisted of an only son, a daughter, and two granddaughters, daughters of this widowed daughter. Now, the son was the apple of the old mother's eye, and in her opinion the only real good thing there was upon the earth. The opinion of the world, however, did not sustain that of the mother, for, by his customers at least, Mr. Philpot Podinger was not consid- ered as the most perfect of human beings. He kept a grocery store, and some said he clipped the weight; others, that he mixed the sugar; others, that he chiseled the change. However, as his wealth steadily increased, per- haps envy was the cause of #any ill-natured remarks. But one thing was certain, he never put anything into the collection-plate at church, or gave a beggar the sweepings of the store, unless the beggar would bring a bucket of water, or split a stick of wood to pay for the same, and -save a penny to the owner. And those who got the dust of the tea-chest, or the grains of coffee lying in the mud at   OR MATILDA DOUGLAS.        195 the door, had to pay for the privilege of scraping for the one and picking up the other So thrifty was Mr. Philpot Podinger that it was impossible for him not to accumulate, because all was gain and no loss. On a vacant lot, near his store, Mr. Podinger had built a number of houses that were now tenanted, and the consequent increase of population in the neighborhood had so increased the busi- ness of the store as to render necessary an increase of shopmen. Mr. Philpot always consulted his mother about his business, and this important matter was now presented for her consideration. Said Philpot, "I would employ a gal, because I could get her cheaper than a boy, only I am afraid she might want to marry me l" "That is the very thing you ought to do," said the mother, " if you could only get a suitable one, for then you would have wife and shopwoman both in one, and who would take so much interest in your affairs as your wife'? A stranger might eat the cheese and crackers, and pocket the sugar, if not the money; but most likely both. Then, an educated woman could keep your accounts, and make out your bills, and push the business on while you are away attending auctions and buyifig in things cheap i" "What you say is very true, mother; but where shall I find a. gal who is able to do all that?" said Philpot, in some astonishment at this new aspect of the matter. "I will look one out for you; indeed, I have my eye on one already, and I have been thinking of her for you for some time, though I never mentioned it, because I thought we had better wait until she was rid of some incumbrance she has. But if you are in such need of help in the store you may be losing money, and that matter, of all others, E must be looked after," said the mother, anxious about her son's happiness a little, but about his money a great deal. "Well, mother, I don't know who the gal is that you   196     DOINGS IN MARYAND, have been thinking of for me; but you had better not men- tion to her how much I am worthi until our minds are fully made up on the subject, because she might be too anxious and tease us." "My mind is fully made up," replied the mother, " and we may have to tell her how much you are worth,-that is, how much money and property you have,--in order to get her consent, for she is no common gal, I can tell you." "Why, mother, who is she?" said Phil., sitting down with his hat on, and a hand in each pocket of his pants. "Matilda Douglas, the school-teacher. Aha I What do you think of that?" "La sakes! mother, why, she'd suit nice I But could you get her?" said Phil., actually removing his hat from his head and his hands from his pockets in his astonish- ment. "Let me alone for that," replied the cute old one. "I know how to come it over these gals. I was a gal once myself, and I know how their fancies are tickled about marriage, and all that sort of thing." Mrs. Podinger having now received her son's consent to the proposed matrimonial speculation, commenced, like a well-practiced diplomatist, to prepare for the coming ne- gotiation, or rather, perhaps, like an officer in command and about to lay siege to the citadel. She made a bowl of soup and sent it by her son to Mr. Douglas. "The gal will admire him so much when she sees how kind he is, and not too proud to bring the soup," thought the self-com- placent designer, who boasted that she never failed. In a few days she sent a thimbleful of preserved " damsels," as she called them, in a large glass bowl. Mattie thought it must be the bowl that was the present, and the damsons an accident; accordingly she directed the bowl to be washed and placed in the china closet; but was made acquainted   OR MATILDA  DOUGLAS.      197 with her error, when one day Mr. Podinger called for the bowl. "Such delicate attentions must propitiate her," said Mrs. Podinger, "and after awhile I'll broach the subject right out." With the one object constantly in view she made frequent visits to Mattie, requested to be shown into her father's room, and, indeed, all over the house,--Mattie did not live in apartments now,-extolled everything she saw, from garret to cellar, and declared that she, "Mattie, was the best housekeeper in the city, for not as much dirt could be found in her house as would cover her finger-nail." Mrs. Podinger importuned and implored for a visit in return. "I have been to see you so often," she said', "and you never think it worth while to look in. I have something to show you, something to tell you, and something of the greatest importance to consult you about." And happy Mrs. Pod- inger thought her mission as good as completed when Mattie had consented to call. CHAPTER XXXIX. THE VISIT. "Of all proceedings in this great affair We must not use our fortune, but our care." GRATITUE is ever the characteristic of a noble mind, and the smallest favor is sufficient to call forth its exer- cise. Cunning Mrs. Podinger could not have taken a more direct road to Mattie's heart than through her father, and this she understood; hence the bowl of soup and the va- rious little attentions to the father were intended as propiti-   198     DOINGS IN MARYAND, ators of the daughter. Up to this point Mrs. Podinger's mind could follow Mattie's and track its course; but one step further, and the old diplomatist was lost in a sea, the depth of which she could not even imagine. Thoughts and motives which would have influenced her were to Mattie as ropes of sand, and never for a moment could have swayed even the shadow of an action. The predominating idea with vulgar minds is money; and Mrs. Podinger was not so far wrong in her estimate of human nature when, judging from herself, she con- cluded that every human being had his and her price. Such minds-money minds we call them-are, indeed, vastly in the majority on this planet, and to find one superior to such considerations, one whose motives, in- stincts, and determinations are pure, high, and holy, is like finding a tropical plant amid the frozen snows of Ice- land. God grant that our rare exotic may not wither by reason of the uncongenial climate and the biting blasts which come to it I On the occasion of Mattie's visit to the importunate Mrs. Podinger, she found the old lady in a strangely ab- stracted mood, evidently absorbed in deep reflection, turn- ing over in the pocket of her mind, not the fate of nations, but of dollars and cents. "How much shall we gain by this transaction? The girl has no money, but then she has work in her; and work is monev." Thus ruminated Mrs. Podinger, and, glancing over her glasses at Mattie, she said to herself, "Yes, I'll take the final plunge I I'll propose I and then it will soon be all over, for, of course, she'll accept." She broke the ice. "Have I not a nice snug place here, Miss Mattie?" "You are very neatly and cosily situated," replied Mattie. "And see, I have a new cooking-stove; no fear but that * ? i   OR MATILDA. DO iUGLAS.      199 I shall be able to cook us plenty to eat. What do you like best, Miss Mattie?" "I am not much of an epicure," said Mattie, not at all understanding the drift of the question. Said one of the little granddaughters, "We are going to get a new clock, so that you won't be a moment too late at the store on dark mornings." Mrs. Podinger shook her head threateningly at the child, but Mattie smiled at this (as she thought) burst of childish folly. "Don't you think my nice new rag carpet on the dining- room floor quite a beautiful one, Miss Mattie?" "It is really quite a good carpet for service," replied the visitor. "And see what a beautiful quilt I have quilted lately,- and then this set of new china I Is it not beautiful? To be sure, some of the pieces are a little cracked, and some are of different pattern and of a different color, but then we got them cheap I and they answer the purpose just as well. Don't you think so?" "Yes, if you leave looks out of the question," said Mattie, still profoundly in the dark. "Why, child, we -don't go for looks. It's the real use of things that we look at. And now, my dear, would you believe it? but all this preparation is for you!" (This with a most insinuating smile.) "For me?" exclaimed Mattie, in unfeigned astonish- ment. "Yes, for you! because, you see, my son is the best son in the world, and you are the best daughter, and I think the best son and the best daughter ought to be united. And I want, above all things, to see you married to my son. I know he'll treat you rale good; and he will varnish the parlor chairs, and he will get a carpet for the parlor, and let you    200     DOINGS IN MARYAND, have the old one for your chamber, if you wish it, and make things to your liking and mine; for he never does any- thing without consulting me!"Mattie sat and stared at Mrs. Podinger in dumb amazement, so totally new was the thought presented that she almost failed even then to comprehend it. "Oh, I want you for my son's wife, that's all!" con- tinued the old woman, coming close to Mattie and attempt- ing to kiss ker. This affectionate demonstration roused the girl from her dumb surprise, and she burst into a merry laugh. Mrs. Podinger took the laugh for acqui- escence, and, calling her daughter and granddaughters, com- manded them to come and kiss their new relation. The daughter came first, and, putting her arms around Mattie, exclaimed, "Now, do marry my brother, and then you can teach my children how to behave in company; and when they grow up they can get nice beaus." ".Oh, yes, marry my uncle," said one of the little girls, " and then we will buy a carriage, and we can get nice drives to the coun- try." '( Oh, yes, please marry him," chimed in the other, "for then he will give us sausage and cheese and store- crackers for supper." Mattie felt inclined to release herself from caresses and importunities by bounding from the house and escaping by actual flight. This was not so easily done, however, as each one hung about her neck and kissed her, and entreated. her, until in utter desperation, Mattie begged them to be seated and she would explain herself. Addressing the mother, she said,- "Be assured, Mrs. Podinger, I am most grateful for the good opinion you entertain of me, and fully appreciate the honor intended in the offer you make; nevertheless, I must positively decline the flattering proposal, as I have not the least intention of marryving at present. I do not know that   OR MATILDA DO UGLAS.       201 I shall ever marry,-I am not a speculator in the matri- monial market; and should I ever become a wife, it will be from motives of higher consideration than those of per- sonal convenience." The old woman could stand this no longer. She ex- claimed, "Oh, don't talk that way, you don't know how happy you would be --and I will tend your father rale good if you will only help Philpot in the store a little." "I thank you for your kind intentions," said Mattie, growing thoroughly disgusted; "but I would not em- barrass any one with attendance on my father; I deem it a duty, as it is certainly a pleasure, to attend him myself, and I would not delegate the important trust to another." She arose to go. It was now Mrs. Podinger's turn to be astonished, and we may form some idea of the magnitude of her astonishment when it kept her silent a whole minute. At length finding voice, she exclaimed, "Well I upon my soul, I did not think there was such a fool in town I Why, my Philpot is a rale good offer, gal; you don't know what you are about. Why, he is worth forty thousand dollars,-he told me not to tell you, for fear of making you too anxious and too proud to help him in the store, but I will tell you, because you are throwing away a fortune and don't I know it." "The money consideration would have no weight with me," said Mattie; "my feelings must be interested in the person I marry, or I must be swayed by some motive other than a mercenary one. At present nothing is further from my thoughts than marriage; my father may live many years yet, and certainly I shall not marryv while he lives." "Well, you are a great fool, that is all I have to sayi l   202     DOINGS IN fMA4RYA rD, and, besides, my son is going to get a carriage,-he has to keep a dray-horse, it is cheaper than to hire,-and then he can haul you to the country on Sundays. Why, gal, you don't know what you are about!" Mattie, wishing no more conversation on the subject, bent her steps resolutely to the door. The old woman followed close at her heels almost in tears, and whimpered out, "Well, I declare, I don't believe Philpot will eat any supper to-night, he will be so astonished." Said Mattie, "He has no occasion to feel in the least disappointed, for he can easily get a wife that would suit him much better than I should." "But she couldn't keep books, and make out bills, and do all the writing like you could," said the baffled diplo- matist, deprecatingly. "Won't you please marry my uncle?" put in again one of the little girls; " for then you could bring us a pocket- ful of raisins from the store,--my uncle is so stingy I The other day I found a cent, and he took it for six raisins. Please marry him, won't you?"?And the earnest little blue eyes looked up so beseechingly. Mattie patted the child upon the head, and putting her gently aside, made for the door, followed by the old woman, who kept close to her side, wringing her hands the while, and exclaiming, ever and anon, "Well I well I if this don't beat all the rest; I could not have be- lieved it!" As Mattie was about to leave the step, the amazed and disconcerted matchmaker seized her by the arm. "I say," she exclaimed, " if you should come to your senses after you have slept on it and change your mind ever so little, let us know." Then rushing back into the house, she exclaimed, "That gal is nothing but a humbug and an ungrateful wretch I I never was so thunderstruck   OR MATILDA  DOIUGLAS.      203 in my life. I hope to Heaven she may never get a bus- band!" And so unfortunate Mattie has made another enemy. CHAPTER      XL. VOTE OF CENSURE. "Why, I can smile aud murder while I smile, Can cry content to that which grieves my heart, And wet my cheeks with artificial tears And frame my face to all occasions." THE document of censure being duly passed in parlia- mentary style, was given to Mr. Slytickle, with instructions to read it before the assembled school, and to surprise Miss Douglas into an attendance at the reading. How the monstei hounds panted for the taste of blood dripped from a heart crushed beneath their grinding heels I Mr. Slytickle was only too happy to be the Jack Ketch on this occasion, and instantly upon the reception of the order hastened to execute it. He assembled the school, and directed the teachers to be present. Poor Mattie, who had not the least suspicion of what was about to be trans- acted, approached her fate like a lamb to the slaughter. When the school was seated and quiet obtained, Mr. Sly- tickle arose, and, putting on a dolorous face, informed all present that a very painful duty devolved upon him, but as he was compelled to obey superiors or suffer punish- ment himself, he could not refuse it. He then proceeded to read the vote of censure passed by the committee on   204      DOINGS IN MARYAND, Miss Douglas, and to inform her officially, that if she did not comply with the wishes of the committee she must resign her situation. It is impossible to tell whether Mattie or the school were most astonished; every one present seemed struck dumb with amazement.  Mattie herself sat motionless as a statue and white as marble, while the silence of death reigned over the assembly. Gradually there arose a buzzinginnquiry. "What had Miss Douglas done?" "What had Miss Douglas done?" was whispered louder and louder by two hundred girls, until the hum became a shriek and consternation took the form of the wildest up- roar. Mattie was aroused from stupefaction by her class rushing to her in a body and exclaiming, "Oh, Miss Douglas, what have you done? What have we done, that you should be punished in this way?"Mattie arose, and, with as much composure as she could command, re- quested permission to state to the school the grounds of her offense. This Mr. Slytickle peremptorily refused, and commenced so violent a ringing of the school-bell that it was impossible to hear a word. Mattie, by signs and gesticulations, brought her class to order and got them seated, when Mr. Slytickle instantly dismissed the school. Two persons present were exceptions to the general amaze- ment, because they had been prepared for the scene and -instructed how to act in the approaching crisis; these were Miss Ursa Minor and Miss Asp. Of this Miss Asp we have heard before, but we shall hear of her no more. When Slytickle wanted an instrument to use in his dia- ' bolical ticklings, he made use of this poor girl. She was a bright and intelligent one, capable of becoming an or- nament to society; and, withal, she was pretty,-so much the worse I Oh, the -misfortune of having talents placed in the keeping of the unworthy I Not in the child's   OR MATILDA  DOUGLAS.       205 keeping,-we don't mean that, she was too young to keep anything; but in the keeping of those who profess to be educators and developers of the divine gift of intellect. As soon as Mr. Slytickle had dismissed the school, he ran to his recitation-room and locked the door, lest Mattie should seek an explanation of these strange proceedings. The cowardly scamp dared not meet the clear, penetrating eye of that injured girl, so he took refuge in his strong- hold, his class-room, and fortified his nerves with Planta- tion Bitters,-a sly way of getting drunk. Some of the older pupils gained access to Miss Ursa Minor, and with loud earnestness inquired the cause of Miss Douglas's trouble. They loved Mattie, every pupil in the school, except those whom Slytickle had taken special pains to prejudice against her. Said Miss Ursa Minor, in reply to the question of the girls, "( That Douglas thing is a hateful proud upstart, and, besides, she is a public robber, and has robbed me of my rights. I am entitled to the situation which she holds, and I will have it yet,--my father says I shall!" Children take up an idea strangely sometimes, and the news was soon spread all over town that Miss Douglas was a robber and had robbed Miss Ursa Minor, and the committee had turned her out of school for being a robber. Miss Asp, in the bonnet-room, was busily employed, ac- cording to the instructions which she had received, in giving the girls the version of the affair which Slytickle had put into her mouth. Poor child! My heart bleeds when I think of the filthy blotches this villain was spreading upon the mind of that innocent child,--a mind which, previous to his manipulation, was pure as mountain snow I The lies he was teaching her to tell (she knew they were lies as well as he did) were sticking to her soul, weakening her principles and polluting her character. A 18   206      DOINGS IN MARYAND, city rendered unhealthy by miasmatic deposit is ready to fall into disease and death by the first breath that blows across its befouled and Heaven-deserted streets, so the mind, rendered impure by dreadful education, is ready to fall a victim to the first temptation that besets its path. As Mattie passed the bonnet-room she heard Miss Asp, in high key, telling the girls that the commissioners wished Miss Douglas to resign because she was so unprincipled. Miss Ursa Minor was stationed by the open door of her re- citation-room, but as soon as she saw the victimized girl approach, ran inside and slammed the door. Mattie knew it would be vain to apply there, so she took her solitary way homeward, feeling more deeply wretched than she had ever felt since that dark night on which she stood by the side of her lifeless mother. "Because she is so unprincipled!" rang in her ear like a seven-toned trumpet. "Oh, right- eous Heaven!" she exclaimed, " what is principle? what is integrity?" She cast a retrospective glance over her past life: there was not one bright spot in all the arid desert of her existence, not one oasis on which to rest, or find a moment's respite from despair, save in that sad, sweet memory of her mother. To this, then, she clung with desperate energy, laid her bruised heart upon it, and tried to still its agony; but the agony now was too strong for hushing, and burst forth in low, deep tones: "O God!" she cried, "Thou hast dealt hardly by thy servant; slay me quite, for I am weary of life 1"She passed into the chamber where lay her father, his white hair-prematurely white-showered like snow upon his pillow. He was -,sleeping sweetly as an infant, a smile resting upon his face, happily unconscious of the sorrow that was crushing the heart of his child. Mattie stood and gazed upon his help- less form, his noble face, his majestic brow, girdled with the grandeur of godlike intellect,-intellect which, if it had   OR MATILDA DOUGLA S.       20T been properly applied, could have gained for the possessor a never-fading chaplet,-could have placed him on fame's eternal tower. Now, here it lies low down in the dust, trodden under foot by the scoffer and the jester, only sustained by the few crumbs his child can gather under the feet of brutal power and insolent oppression. "Oh, Heaven I reveal to our hearts the mysteries of thy govern- ment I Our spirits faint within us by reason of our doubts, and we are lost in the mist of uncertainty." These were the thoughts of the girl as she stood and gazed upon the prostrate being before her, and if ever a heart wept blood, hers distilled the sanguine drops at that moment. "If I could but ask his counsel," she said to herself. "But, no, I will not pain him with my troubles; his physical suffer- ing is as much as he can bear. Oh, that I had never per- mitted myself to be tempted from my happy, lonely school far out upon the common, where the poor loved m'e and the kind cherished me! Oh, that I had not gone to that sink of iniquity, that den of corruption I Then to be stig- matized as unprincipled, when it is for adherence to prin- ciple that I am insulted, traduced; for my loyalty to truth and honor that I am martyred. And it will be bruited abroad that I am false to the sacred charge of duty, that l my breath is contamination to the young. If they had but spared me this, I could have borne all else." Overcome with emotion, she sank upon her knees by the side of her father's pillow, and, lifting one of the white locks that lay in luxuriance around his gloriously- formed head, pressed it to her lips, and bathed it with her tears. He awoke, and, smiling upon her, said, "My love, I have just had such a pleasant dream of you. I thought a bright being was binding upon your brow the myrtle wreath, such as the ancient victors wore when having won the race."   208      DOINGS IN MARYAND, "Oh, my father i" she mentally exclaimed, " how dif- ferent from the sad reality is your mocking dream!"With desperate effort, she restrained her emotion, and, banish- ing from her face and voice traces of grief, conversed as usual with the sick man, and, when night closed in, read him to sleep, as was her custom. When drooping eye- lids and heavy breathing showed that he no longer heard the tones of her sweet voice,-sweet to him, at least,- she retired to her own chamber and wept the night away. But during that sleepless night she formed a resolve; and in the morning returned to school to put it into execution. CHAPTER XLL. TRIUMPH. "Poor is the triumph o'er the timid hare, Seared from the corn, and now to some Lone retreat retired." As soon as Slytickle had got rid of Mattie and the school, he hastened to the committee to inform them how the martyr had borne her execution. Said he, "She actu- ally cried I The dignified, self-sustained, haughty Miss Douglas actually wept. I saw the tears." Said McGilhooter, "You saw the tears? Are you sure you did? You must be mistaken. Did you really see the tears? How many were there, do vou think?" "Oh, I could not count them, they fell so fast," said Slytickle; " not like a shower, either, but like pearls when the string is broken; and as quickly she caught them."   OR MATILDA DOUGLAS.        209 Dr. Huntemup snuffted out, "Egad! how I should like to have witnessed her humiliation,-the cold, proud-thing!" Said Slytickle, i"As to that, she did not look very much humiliated, although the tears would come. She stepped as proudly as a war-horse. She is hard to kill, I tell you. There is some internal fire in that girl which is not easily quenched." i Said Abbettor, "I should really like to know if the tears fell in drops or in a stream, because one can judge by that how much she was hurt. She might have shed a few drops for anger. I have known people to cry in anger, but a stream is apt to denote a crushed and broken fountain." "Well, she was not crushed, however she might have been broken," said Slytickle; " for she said, quite proudly, I accept my fate. I will resign my situation, and appeal to the Board to give me a school of my own, such as I had before coming here. I was happy then, but I have never been happy in this place. There is too much trickery here for my taste.' " She will appeal to the Board, will she? the infernal termagant!" screamed the committee, in a chorus. "But we'll be there before her." And a gleam of triumph lighted the faces of the scoundrel band like a flash of lurid flame lighting a cavern filled with bones and putrid flesh and human gore. The historian tells us that when William of Orange received a wound upon the banks of the Boyne, the news was received in Paris with such a jubilee of joy that the whole city arose at midnight and rushed to the surgeons, eager to know if such a wound was likely to prove fatal. A stranger in the city might have supposed some terrible pestilence was raging, when thus at mid- night every man was seeking a doctor. Enemies, who had not spoken for years, made friends and shook hands 18*   210      DOINGS IN MARYAND, over the event. The bells rang a merry peal, as if upon the birth of a prince, and everything bespoke' an event of national joy. When the gentlemen of the Star-Chamber Committee heard that Mattie wept, they shook hands over the event, and called it Triumph! They congratulated each other, and invited each other to oysters, to sherry cobblers, to juleps, to wine, to brandy. Each one treated the other, and ate, and drank, and laughed, and smoked, and joked, and feasted; gloriouslv feasted on the tears wrung from a woman, because her father was a cripple, she had no brother, and could not vote I And these are a few of the scenes which are daily being acted in our midst, and-we dream not of them. We little suspect the wrongs, the oppressions, the insults, the lies, the mis- representations which are daily heaped upon such as are unfurnished with the protection of strength, social or natural. If a woman is well sustained by powerful rela- tions of the masculine gender, such as have both a fist and a vote, she is in some measure secure from the assaults of cowardly scoundrels; but if she is lonely and unpro- tected,-alas for the poor woman! The Star-Chamber Committee were so elated by their success in making a woman-weep that quite a new im- pulse was given to their energies, and as soon as their orgies were over, each ran off in a different direction to establish something new and call it Triumph. Mr. Abbet- tor opened a new policy-office, and called it Triumph. Mr. McGilhooter stole a new sermon and called it Triumph. Dr. Huntemup hastened off to the causeway mission, he ,.said, to make a new proselyte and call her Triumph. A good chance to be a villain with impunity is that causeway mission; but the All-seeing Eye is not deceived, and a day of reckoning will come. Mr. Slytickle wasin his recitation-room on the morning   OR MATILDA DOUGLAS.       2" after the vote of censure had been read, and on Mattie's arrival at school she immediately sought his presence. She tapped gently at the door, but so absorbed was she in her own reflections that she unconsciously opened the door before a response came from within. Mr. Slytickle was absorbed, too, and had not heard the rap, so that Mattie stood beside him ere he was aware that his solitude was invaded. The happy man was standing near a window, a bottle of Plantation Bitters in one hand, a goblet filled with the same in the other. He held the glass between himself and the light, gazing rapturously upon its ruby con- tents, evidently enjoying in anticipation its spicy flavor. He seemed afraid to drink lest the pleasure should be past; but would put the draught alternately to his nose and lips, then, shutting one eye, would look down into its depths and smile lovingly, as a fond mother might smile upon a sleeping babe. So deeply was he absorbed that Mattie had to touch his arm to arouse him from this reverie of love. With manifest detection and evident alarm, the lover of spice and spirit exclaimed, "Oh, yes, Miss Douglas, I don't mean anything, but I have a pain here," pressing his hand upon his stomach. He would fain have hid both bottle and glass, but finding it impossible, he put the best face upon the accident, and tried to blind the most unwelcome visitor with words and explanations. "This is medicine, Miss Douglas. I have a weakness of the stomach [still pressing his hands upon the part named], and my physician advised me to take this; won't you taste it?" "No, I thank you," she replied. "I am fortunate in not having a diseased stomach." "Or a diseased head, either," said he, "or you must have died- yesterday. I pitied you from my heart, but was com- pelled to do what I did or else lose my situation."   212      DOINGS IN MARYAND, Said Mattie, "I am entirely at a loss as to my crime. I can imagine no adequate cause for all this display of severity." "But you presume to have opinions and to act upon them, and that don't suit this locality. Independence of thought and action don't thrive in this atmosphere. I told you before we were ruled by a rod of iron, and now you feel it," said Slytickle. "But I am accused, most unjustly, of a want of principle, when, in fact, a strict adherence to truth and principle has caused my trouble," said the sad girl. Slytickle averted his eyes, and inquired, "Who said you were unprincipled?" "Your favorite pupil, Miss Asp; she says by authority that a moral turpitude, a want of honor and good faith has caused my trouble. The committede, she says, deprecate my connection with the young, because of mv unhallowed influence arising from moral degradation. This charge is the more unkind, because it is impossible to disprove it, coming in the form that it does, and circulated thus covertly." "If any of the girls dare tell you such a thing I will expel them -from the school," said Slytickle. "They do not tell me," she replied, "but they tell every- body else. You must be aware, sir, that such a report, going to the public, must be highly injurious to me." "Oh, never mind the public; the public is a poor con- cern, anyhow,-anybody can humbug the public; you mind the committee and they will manage the public. But I would rather not talk any more on the subject; the com- mittee say I am all right, and you must take care of your- self. You could get favors, too, if you were not so high in your tone; but, however, Mr. Box wants your situation for his friend Miss Becky Sharp,-she does not like Fizzle,   OR MATILDA DOUGLAS.        213 of the Western Factory; but, for gracious sake, don't tell them that I told you! Miss Ursa Minor is high up, too, with expectation, and her father is running all about town making religious interest for her, so I don't know how it will end; but I advise you to do like the rest,--trick i and truckle, and keep your place." Said she, "Mr. Slytickle, I will never either trick or truckle, so help me Heaven!" And the hand that had thrown the inkstand long years before, was again stretched forth in the energy of its purpose. "I ask," she continued, "but justice ; and surely I have a right to expect that, if nothing more." "J-u-s-t-i-c-e!" sneered Slytickle. "Why, child, the damned in hell have a right to demand justice, and they get it, too; but never expect justice from that committee." CHAPTER XLI  THE CONGRESS OF ASSES. "And such a crafty devil as his mother Should yield the world this ass, a woman that Bears all down with her brain; and this her son Cannot take two from twenty for his heart, And leave eighteen." MATTIE addressed a letter to the Board, requesting to be released from her present position, and returned to a school similar to the one from which she had been taken when promoted to the Factory. In her communication she made no complaint, except a gentle hint at indignities which she had been made to suffer. Upon the reading of   214     DOINGS IN MARYAND, the letter before the sapient body to whom it was ad- dressed, there arose a discussion worthy of the enlight- ened age in which we live, worthy of imitation by all succeeding ages and by all succeeding congresses of asses. Kirk arose, and, with genuine honesty, a rare trait, moved that "a committee be appointed to investigate the affair, and ascertain what were the indignities of which Miss Douglas complained." This brought Abettor to his feet. "He considered such a motion a direct insult to the committee," he said. "It was an imputation upon the honor and integrity of that committee, and he, as its chairman, would resist unto the death any such motion." Said Kirk, "If the skirts of the committee are clear of censure in this affair, why do they shirk an investigation?" Said Abettor, "We shirk an imputation upon our honor, and what honorable man would not? This motion to investigate our conduct supposes upon its very face that some injustice has been done; and this we deny." Said Kirk, "I suppose the Factory Committee don't assume to be anything more than human, and to err is human by all allowed; but if that committee profess im- peccability, why not submit their official conduct to the inspection of this Board and have their claim established, then sail away with colors flying, drunms beating, and the crowd cheering? With respect to Miss Douglas, this Board knows enough of her to believe she would not com- plain without cause." Box was only waiting for Kirk to take breath when he bounded to the floor like a ball. "Mr. President," said he, "I agree with our worthy chairman in repudiating an investigation into the conduct of this committee; not be- cause we are afraid of an investigation, but the mere men-   OR MATtILDA DOUGLAS.       215 tion of it implies censure, and we will not submit to censure even by implication. Our official acts are above suspicion, as Caesar said his wife should be, and we spurn with contempt any and every insinuation from every and any quarter. I move, therefore, that if this investigation be pressed, that every member of the com- mittee resign, and next fall, at the polls, we will not for- get the treatment we may receive here to-day. I suppose gentlemen are aware of the fact that every member of this committee has a vote? Miss Douglas has no vote, thank Heaven; and, therefore, those who favor her have everything to lose and nothing to gain by such a move- ment. " The President of the School Board was an out-and-out politician; he had been to the State Legislature, and now he wanted to go to the National Congress. The threat of Box struck home with interest, as he knew it would. Dr. Huntemup next arose. "I would," said he, " almost as soon take one of my own prescriptions as meet the member from  the Seventh Ward in debate, he is so ultra, so rabid, so unreasonable; but as a member of this com- mittee, my honor is impugned, and for that reason, as well as for the sake of my estimable coadjutors, I must speak in this case; and now for the facts. Ever since Miss Douglas has been in the Factory she has been--re- factory and insubordinate, presuming to have opinions of her own, which she sets up in opposition to everybody else.; but we have borne with her in silence,-why? Sim- ply because she was a woman, a helpless woman who had no vote, and consequently no influence over even herself; for in this world, where everything goes by voting, a thing that can't vote is nothing, or, as the great Napoleon said, ' only those have rights who know how to maintain them ;' consequently, by that rule, woman has none, and is,   216     DOIN0GS IN MARYAND, therefore, a mere reptile, a worm of the earth. But al- though Miss Douglas was a worm, we scorned to tread upon her, until it became absolutely necessary to protect Slytickle from her sting. Why, gentlemen," said the doctor, growing pathetically eloquent, " do you suppose that the gentlemen who compose this committee are not gentlemen? Do you suppose they would ill-treat a woman simply because she was such and had no vote? For my part, I scorn a woman and love her too-because I have read the great Euripides on that subject. Yes, gentle- men   "Here the Chair reminded the doctor that he must address "itself and not gentlemen." "I ask pardon of the Chair, sir; but do you, sir-Chair, think that I would wound the feelings of a pure and high-minded imy woman like Miss Douglas? True, 'those who are whole need not a physician,' and I know that the lady in ques- tion don't need my sympathy, but she has it nevertheless; and although she has acted towards Slytickle like a ter- magant, a she-dragon, an imp from a place I would not like to mention (and such a. fire-and-brimstone life as she has led him!), yet, because she was of the tender gender, we bore with her in mute despair, our hearts lacerated and bleeding with sorrow that we had made such an un- fortunate selection for the Factory in which is manufac- tured the ladies of this great land; yes, the ladies, not only for home consumption, but for foreign exportation." Dr. Huntemup sat down perfectly exhausted. Kirk was on his feet in an instant. Said he, "Does the gentleman who just took his seat have the audacity to say in the face of open day that Miss Douglas was an unfor- tunate selection for the Factory, when it is known by the whole community that the school has improved a hun- dred per cent. since she went into it? What was the character of that institution before she went there? The         OR NATILDA DOUGLA S.        21t scorn of the community and an eye-sore to the founders of it. Well, what is it now? Why, the school is sought after as something really worthy of credit, and that simply because Miss Douglas is in it. She is the only teacher there capable of sustaining the character of the institution, or rather of giving character to it. Take her out, and it will soon return to the. condition in which she found it. As to Slytickle, I believe him to be a cowardly, sniveling, sneaking dog, that will run behind and bite without even the courage to bark. For my part, I cannot understand how he has succeeded in enlisting so much of the good opinion of the committee. The story set afloat that he is tyrannized over by Miss Douglas, I believe to be a mere fabrication, a howl to enlist the co-operation of the com- mittee. Altogether the affair is mysterious, and I press the motion for an investigation." McGilhooter was standing behind  the drapery which fell at the back of the President's chair, and an attentive listener to all that was passing; he now drew aside the drapery sufficiently to allow himself to be seen obscurely, and commenced gesticulating violently to Mr. Abbettor. That worthy, upon receiving this mute, but significant, summons, instantly left his seat and dodged behind the curtain. "Here, here, be quick!" said Mac., "and get this pre- amble and resolution through the Board; you don't know what turn things may take through Kirk and his investi- gating committee." Abbettor did as directed, and presented the following: "Whereas, The career of Miss Douglas, as a  teacher, has been like the booming of a great gun upon the wide ocean, or like the looming up of a meteor in brilliant cor- uscations; like the flame of the rainbow in its loveliest tints; like the odor that arises from a field of pepper, or 19   218      DOINGS IN MARl'LAND, the glancing of the sun upon an army with screwed bayo- nets; therefore be it Resolved, That this Board do regard her withdrawal from the Eastern Factory with the deepest regret; yet, as her high-wrought and refined sensibilities cannot be happy in a subordinate position, be it resolved that this Board do gratify Miss Douglas's request and appoint her Principal of Perdition School on Grindstone Point." The resolution passed, and Mattie was declared Princi- pal of Perdition School. After the adjournment of the Board, the conspirators met at rendezvous as usual. Said Box, his bald head shining like polish, "We have not had half fun enough; can we not torment this wild-cat some more?" "Wait," said McGilhooter, "we have her in a tight place now, this queen of perdition I She will have nothing but grindstones to teach where she is going, and if the school does not succeed, as of course it cannot, we will make that fact an excuse for turning her out altogether. Hip I hurrah!" And the holy man threw up his hat in an ecstasy of joyful anticipation of more fun.   OR MATILDA DOUGLAS.        219 CHAPTER    XLIII. "ATIN. "He who binds His soul to knowledge steals the key of Heaven; But 'tis a bitter mbekery, that the fruit May hang within his reach, and when, with thirst Wrought to a maddening frenzy, he would taste, It burns his lips to ashes." MATTIE had attended her father at breakfast, had seen his bed made and himself carefully returned to it, had kissed him good-by for the day, and was issuing from the street-door, on her way to school, when a gentleman, whose proximity she had not observed, sprang upon the step and inquired "if that was the residence of Miss Douglas, and if he could see her." "I am the person," she replied. "Please walk in, sir." The man being seated opened his business. "I have called upon you, madam," said he, "to obtain, if possible, your co-operation in a new educational enterprise about to be undertaken by some friends and myself, and for the suc- cess of which we are extremely desirous." "In what manner can I aid you?" said Mattie. "By becoming our general superintendent," he replied. "Please explain yourself, sir." !"We wish you to take charge of the entire establish- ment, as it will be situated in the country, and, we think, if you would throw your unequaled energy and superior ability into it, we need have no fears for the result." "Are you aware, sir, that I have a sick father whom I would be compelled to take with me?"   220      DOINGS IN MfAR YAND, "No, indeed," said the man in great surprise. "I was not aware of that fact." "Then the information will change your plans with re- spect to myself, I suppose?" said Mattie. "Have you no friend with whom you could intrust your sick father in your absence?" "Not one in the world; neither would I so intrust him if I had." "Then, indeed, you have a heavy charge, and your enemies have taken advantage of your peculiar circum- stances. " "I should not have enemies; I do not think I have ever deserved any," said Mattie, sadly. He smiled a peculiar smile, and replied, "Why, child, the Saviour of mankind had enemies among the very peo- ple he came to seek and to save. Why, then, should the servant be greater than his Lord? The world loves its own, and those who strive after a higher life will be sure of receiving the malignant vituperation of such ,as feel their inferiority." "You alarm me," said the girl; "has, indeed, a sys- tematic effort been made to malign me?" "It is even so," he replied. "The low in principle, and vicious in heart, with whom you have come in contact, envying your exalted character and the success of your labor, have set you up as a target to be shot at, and if something is not done for your rescue, I cannot predict the result. Now, you understand why I have sought you out and made to you the present offer." i"But I cannot accept it," said the resolute girl, " because I cannot leave my father; nothing upon earth would induce me to desert him or consign him to the care of strangers." The man replied, "I am pleased with your devotion to your invalid parent, and if he can be accommodated in   OR MAVTILDA DOUGLAS.       221 our institution, we will receive him. Filial affection is not the sin of the present generation, and when a case occurs resembling that of the youth who carried his father on his back as the only thing worth saving amid a general con- flagration, it should receive due consideration." "What shall I be required to teach?" said Mattie, wishing to put a stop to further eulogy on herself. "We wish you to have the general oversight of the school, and teach the Latin," he replied. "Then that decides the matter," said the rather disap- pointed teacher, "because I cannot teach Latin, having never studied that language." The ambassador seemed determined not to be foiled in his mission, and though taken by surprise by this last de- claration of the contracting party, promptly responded, "Well, study it immediately, then. How long will it take you to acquire it?" "I cannot tell," she replied, " how long it would require to master the language; but I thXik I might be able to teach new beginners in a comparatively short tine." "Then consider our arrangements completed," said the gentleman, and, handing Mattie his card, took leave. Left alone, she sat and pondered the wonderful ways of Providence. "What strange events crowd into an hour I -events that change forever the current of a life. People of whose existence we were not aware cross our path, and never may we tread the same again!"Surely a hand is on the wall, and writes a -language that is hard to read. "Oh, for a Daniel ever near i"A voice in Mattie's heart responded, "Yes, and the same hand brings us to the desire of our hearts by a road we never would have taken; left to our own judgment, we would lose the roses because we would shun the thorns." Plenty of thorns for poor Mattie I 19*   222      DOINGS IN MARYIYAND, CHAPTER     XLIV. "ATIN AND LOVE. "Latin and love!-Oh, dear, A compound how queer!" AN advertisement announced to the public the fact that a certain " scientific and literary professor,"--name with - held,-" having a few leisure hours at his disposal, would, give private lessons to individuals-ladies and others-in Latin and other languages." This was just the oppor- tunity Mattie desired; she gladly embraced it, and placed herself under the instruction of the advertiser, who turned out to be the distinguished Professor Waverly. The history of mankind, from the days of Abelard and Heloise to those of Warren Colburn, perhaps before, cer- tainly since, attests the fact that this relation of teacher and pupil is a dangerous one for people to occupy after they have attained to the age of passion. How more readily, as Pope says, can thought meet thought ere from the lips it part, of each warm wish, springing mutual from the heart, than when giving and receiving instruction I The effort to please as instructor, and to merit appro- bation as pupil, begets an interest in each other,-entirely Platonic at first, we admit, but which insidiously leads on to feelings of a warmer and deeper character. And we here take occasion to remark, that ladies should ever be the instructors of their own sex; and that this may be ac- complished, the standard of female education must be ele- vated; not, as Professor Walker says, simply to improve   OR JMATILDA DOUGLAS.       223 the stock should woman be improved, but for the happi- ness and efficiency of the parties themselves, as well as for the effect immediately and remotely 'upon society at large. And woman, in order to assume this new and im- portant position, must forego the butterfly character she has hitherto sustained and become a rational being. She must give up the gewgaw accomplishments, to excel in which has alwavs been her sole ambition, and instead of being the plaything of man, become his companion. Her heart must cease to be a milliner's shop, as the Honorable Ed- ward Everett says it is, and become rather a circulating library. Man will not deny to woman the privileges commonly called rights when she is ready to make a proper use of them, and man with his strong arm, and sometimes noble heart, must help her to the readiness. But this is a digression, and we beg leave to return to the narrative. Professor Waverly had arrived nearly at the meridian of life, and was yet unmarried. Possessed of a fine per- son and elegant manners, with all the accomplishments of a superior education, the wonder was how he could have escaped the many matrimonial snares that must have been laid for his heart and hand. The solution of the question is simply this. The professor's person and accomplish- ments were all the capital he possessed, and, like a sensi- ble man, he determined to invest to the best advantage; or, in other words, he was a determined fortune-hunter, and no bait worthy of his sublime acceptance had as yet been laid at his elegantly compressed feet. D'Israeli says, "There is no love but love at first sight, and this is the transcendent and surpassing offspring of sheer and unpolluted sympathy." We do not fully in- dorse this opinion, but certain it is, our heroine and her teacher were mutually pleased with each other the first time they met. Mattie instantly felt that in her toilsome,   224      DOINGS IN MARYAND, humble life, secluded from nearly all the world, save the world of children, she had never met so elegant a man. In externals he was the very beau ideal of her exalted fancy. Every woman has her beau ideal, whether she is aware of the fact or not, and woe be to her if she meet him after she is tied to another ] And the acute professor was not slow to discover that, in all the society in which he had mingled,-and he assiduously sought the society of accomplished women,--he had never met Mattie's superior. Manners graceful and dignified, sentiments rich and noble, disposition sweet and amiable, all this added to splendid intellect, made her, to him who was capable of appreciat- ing such a woman, one of the most attractive of her; sex. The new pupil entered upon her study of Latin with a never-before-experienced zest. She had never before found anything half so interesting as Latin I And the teacher acknowledged to himself that he had never taught so in- teresting a pupil. Both were delighted I When the day on which the lesson was to be given arrived, the teacher dressed with as much studied regard to effect as though he were going to pay court to the daughter of a million- aire. He was restless until the allotted hour arrived, and many minutes before the specified time found him at the door, impatient to be at the side of his pupil, impatient to drink in her dulcet tones and bask in her ready smile, sweet to all but sweetest far to him,-to gaze into those tell-tale eyes, and read there, what is ever nectar to the vain heart of man, admiration of himself. And this new feeling which had taken hold of Mattie, was to her so strange, so inexplicable. She had many heroes of regard in history, literature, and science; but this bowing of the soul to a living being was like bewitchment. It is said, when persons are under the influence of a snake-charm specks of gold and purple float before the excited vision   OR MA TILDA DO UGLAS.      225 of the unfortunate victim, and so bewilder his sense of sight that he does not see the reptile in its true shape. Love we have always thought similar in its effects to the spell produced by an unhallowed incantation, or the result of some kind of animal magnetism, and if not as unrea- sonable-as the one, quite as undefinable as the other. The charmer or magnetizer, in this case, gave undisguised evi- dence of an intention to weave a spell, or render powerless a will. The pupil must have been prodigiously expert, or else the praise she received was prodigiously extravagant, for never did teacher dote upon one with such unbounded admiration. His every look was one of adoration, he never spoke but to praise, and his low and thrilling tones were evidently the involuntary emission of a smouldering volcano. Said the either -bewitched or devil-possessed man, "Miss Douglas, for your next lesson conjugate the verb 'a-mo;l " and, marking deeply with his thumb-nail "a-mat," t "a-ma-bit," he handed her the grammar. As she was ia the act of receiving the book he fixed his burning gaze upon her, and quite thrown off his guard by the impulse of the moment, he exclaimed, "Oh, Miss Douglas, could I but hope---"  He stopped abruptly, colored deeply, by a vigorous effort controlled himself, and, snatching up his hat, precipitately left the house. The sun in all his glory had burst upon Mattie with a brilliancy that was overpowering she fell upon her knees, and, raising her clasped hands to heaven, exclaimed, "What shall I render to thee, O God, for this gracious gift?"Her fluttering heart had completed the unfinished sentence, and, like a dove that has been exiled from the parent cote and longs again to fold its weary wings at home, so yearned this love-bewildered girl to pour the rich treasure of her trusting heart into the (as she thought)   226      DOINGS IN MARYI'LAND, noble and manly bosom that had opened to receive it. "He loves me! he loves me 1" was her constant and ex- ultant thought by day and by night. Night I there was no night for her. All the dark hours appropriated to repose she lay upon her pillow, sleepless, tossed by a flood of deepest, intensest feeling. A feeling too over- powering to be controlled, too sweet to wish it less. Some persons grow thin and pale under love's influence, but love caused Mattie to bloom like the rose. It was as sun- shine to the flower, it was ambrosial food that nourished her, as such food did the gods of olden times. Her cheek, thin and pale, by reason of the mental suffering she had endured of late, now regained its former freshness, and rounded out to meet another cheek half way. Her step again became elastic, her eye beamed with a softer light,- a light which told plainer than words could have done of the warm, sweet, glowing ray of richest sunshine that rested upon her heart. She softly whispered to herself, "Henceforth earth has no tears for me; folded in his pro- tecting love, what have I to fear?"And in the fullness of her joy, she cried out, "Oh, life, how fair I I thought life a gloomy cell of stern duty, of constant penance, and con- tinual stripes; but, oh, the joy of being loved!--surely it is a foretaste of the Paradise of God,-it is the ante- chamber to that great temple in eternity whose glorious arena is but the expansion of love, and whose courts are thronged by those who forever sing paeans of praise to never-dying love I love! love!" (Professor Waverly's Soliloquy.) "WhewI I came very near committing myself that time. I shall have to be careful or I shall really and fatally love that girl,-and she poor I Humph! II'd be a   OR MATILDA DOUGLAS.        227 precious fool, if, after waiting half a lifetime for an opportu- nity to improve my fortune, I were to marry a poor woman and teach for a living I Oh, no, not any, I thank you, Mr. Waverly. Were I rich, though, I would marry her, for she is a splendid woman, and my heart does strangely turn towards her; I never felt so happy in the society of a woman as I do in hers." Here the professor advanced t  to the glass, turned round and round his splendid person, drew apart his lips to examine the collected beauty of his set teeth. He talks to himself, "I evidently absorb her, too; I appropriate her heart's best drop as the vagrant bee appropriates the drop of sweetest nectar contained in Flora's richest flowers--bee I pooh I No,-as the mighty sun absorbs and lays in his capacious storehouse the choicest/ dew from morning's earliest prime. Neither is this the first fair flower that has paled at my approach, whose leaves have rustled with delicious tremor by the swaying of my breath; but golden charms are the charms for me, flowers of fadeless metal must be minel Yes, these are the lRachel for whom I have toiled twice four- teen years; and shall I let a momentary weakness over- come all acquired by the past? No! my man-heart be strong, and say to the wild waves of passion, Thus far shalt thou come and no farther, and here shall thy strong billows break. Gad I but what a narrow escape I made, though!-had I "said another word I should have been fairly committed,-could not in honor have retracted." Honor! oh, the mockery of that word! Is there no treachery save in sounds and characters? Have acts and looks no language? Can vibrating air alone, or the stained page, be the herald of a lie?   228      DOINGS IN MARYAND, CHAPTER     XLV. SURPRISE. "Thou look'st a very statue of surprise,- As if a lightning blast had dried thee up And had not left thee moisture for a tear." A KIND note from Mattie's teacher informed her that he would be absent from home for a week or more; he was going to lecture in an adjoining city; the subject chosen, he said, was the Omnipotence of Weakness! lHe then gave a succinct account of the manner in which he intended to treat the subject, and remarked that for the public rendering, he only regretted the want of inspira- tion her presence would afford. During his absence, he wished her to pursue her studies regularly and translate a portion of Latin every day; on his return he would examine her work; " and as she had," he said, " intuitively what others only obtained by laborious study, he had no doubt of her ability to progress in the absence of assist- Mattie required no other incentive than his slightest wish, and worked at the Latin as children must gather rose-leaves for making attar. Every word translated was tinted with a rosy hue, and fragrant as the garden of Eden, because embalmed in sweet thoughts of the loved and absent. Loved ones are always dearest when away, -something may happen,-he may never return. Oh, the crushing thought,-he may never return! This loved one did return, however, and then he speedily sought his   OR MATILDA DOUGLAS.       229 pupil, then he lavished unbounded praise upon her in- dustry and ability, then, his glance was so tender and loving it tore every fiber of the poor girl's magnetized heart asunder like'as a bombshell thrown among children - an unsuspecting crowd of little ones at play-tears to tatters their yielding limbs, and sprinkles the earth with their innocent blood. Praise from others only strengthened Mattie's heart for exertion as meat strengthens the body for labor; but sweet words of approbation from him acted upon her like draughts of fourth-proof brandy, exhilarating, intoxicating, madden- ing her brain, boiling along her blood. The good providence of God must interpose or Mattie will be a maniac. Those who have passed through the dreadful ordeal im- posed by Love, will readily understand this part of my narrative; and those who have not, let them pray to Heaven that they never may. How long this terrible dream might have lasted, how long it might have pleased the learned professor thus to torture his victim, thus to gloat upon the delirium of love he had inspired, thus to bask in the blaze he had kindled, and, by adroit coquetry, kept burning, it is impossible to say, had not accident frightened the fox from his cover and sent him posting from his bower of sweets. Accident we say, in common parlance, but the interpositions of Provi- dence always appear fortuitous,-"all chance direction which thou canst not see." Ever-vigilant neighbors were not slow to observe the stated visits of the elegant-looking gentleman to the resi- dence of Mattie and her invalid father, and foremost among whom was the much-insulted Mrs. Podinger, who, since Mattie's rejection of her son, had followed the "scornful, upish gal," as she called her, with a malignant and de- tracting eye. Said the old woman, "I s'pose she'll be a 20   230     DOINGS IN MARYAND, takin' to him, he's so grand-looking; my Philpot warn't grand enough for her. I hope to Heaven that dandy-look- ing fellow will break her heart!"Mrs. Podinger's chari- table wish came very near fulfillment. The news soon found its way to the schools that Mattie had a beau. She never made her affairs public: how else, then, could the stated visits of the professor be in- terpreted? Being a man of mark in the profession, his friends soon became aware of the report, and eventually, of course, the gossip reached the man's own ears, when he heard with dismay that he was the imputed lover of Ma- tilda Douglas. Nothing on earth could have caused the philosopher more alarm. The direful disarrangement of all his plans for the future would be the inevitable conse- quence were it known to the Peacocks, whose favor he assiduously courted, that he danced attendance upon this obscure individul. His resolution was instantly taken, he would terminate his engagement to this pupil, and that right speedily. Mean minds are always- suspicious, and this giant in books, but pigmy in principle, instantly sus- pected that Mattie, in the pride of having caught such a feather in her cap, had paraded it, and boasted of her con- quest. "I shall punish her presumption," said the book- bloated man of worldly aspirations. This surmise, how- ever, the offspring of sheer vanity, did the unpretending girl rank injustice. His name was too sacred with her to be lightly spoken, the air had never caught it from her lips; in her devotion, when she prayed for him, her lips were firmest set, and she then prayed deepest down in her heart. Mattie's next lesson in Latin taught her a sad lesson of the uncertainty of all earthly prospects. A sad and woeful change came over her sweet, but most evanescent, dream. The teacher was cold, sullen, haughty, and in his angry   OR MATILDA DOUGLAS.        231 bearing, almost insolent. The pupil was overwhelmed with astonishment, with grief, with dismay. "What have I done to occasion his displeasure?" she constantly asked herself; but herself could give no reply. "I will ask him," she determined; but her attempt at an explanation failed, X!  her tongue cleaved to the roof of her mouth, her lips refused OI  to shape the words, her tormentor was so unapproachably haughty. She was reading Latin: blunder followed blunder U in quick succession; love quite obscured the Latin. He saw the conflict that was going on in the mind of his victim, and looked on with feelings akin to the feelings of a canni- bal who, with watering mouth, watches the broiling of a plump infant, and knows by its faint and fainter moan that it is almost cooked. At length, when his cannibal appetite was sated with the sight of broiling humanity, he brought the lesson to a close, and informed the roasted girl that the next operation of the kind would close the series, as he could attend to business of that kind no longer. The announcement struck like a bullet through her brain, stun- ning, confounding. He knew it would. We have seen be- fore, however, that Mattie possessed strength of will when driven to the use of it. With powerful effort she forced back the tide that was rushing upon her heart, and replied, with assumed composure, " that she was extremely sorry to be deprived so soon of his valuable aid in the prosecution of her study." He curled his lip in magnificent scorn, and coolly bade her a good-evening. His manner of bidding adieu formerly, had been to gayly kiss the book as he re- turned it to her hand. Caesar, when writing his Commen- taries, must have smiled over the most annoying episodes had he known how often and devoutly his work would have been kissed by a learned professor. The unsophisticated girl, left alone, thus 'soliloquized: "This must be some illusion I I must be under a strange   232      DOINGS IN MARYAND, hallucination I Is that man who left just now my former teacher, or am I dreaming? Ah I I have it: this is a love device, a stratagem to try my temper and the strength  of my regard.  Yes, the next lesson will clear up the mystery and put the matter right." The poor, afflicted brain, by reason of the bullet hole, was unable to reason correctly, or view the subject in its proper light. The same suffering organ often asked itself why it should ? suffer thus, what had it done to deserve such retribution f All unconscious as it was, this intensely excited nerve- nucleus, of the inflammation gathering round, it tried to cheat itself into the belief that it must be mistaken about something that existed somewhere, and one more inter- view with its loved tyrant would set all right. Well, the next visit came and hope went. The man of loving gaze and sweetest tone was colder, sterner, more haughty than before, as impenetrable as stone, and about as unfeeling. He went through the show of giving a lesson, buthe never raised his eyes from the page, and made no remark, com- ment, or correction. The lesson being over, the' teacher- arose to leave. Mattie took out her purse to get the money. "I believe I will not accept pay for this my last lesson," he said ; "you have been generous to me, I will be gen- erous to you." The poor girl thought, "How generous I have been to you, surely you don't suspect." He con- tinued: "My object in giving you lessons has been purely philanthropic l"-don't forget he advertised,-" and as you have made such astonishing progress as to be able to assist yourself, I wish to be excused from further attend- ance." Philanthropic I Good gracious The poor girl had paid him a dollar in gold for every lesson he afforded. Philanthropic I Fudge I There are lots of philanthropic acts in the world that pay in hard coin quite as well and even better than this.   OR MATILDA DOUGLAS.       233 Mattie's cheek blanched, and her lip quivered, at this speech of the magnanimous man, but -she proudly laid    ;J down the dollar. The sight of the little gold bit affected him as the sight of a dram does the drunkard, rendering itself irresistible to his loving appetite. He first glanced at the precious metal sideways, then balanced it on his finger, and finally deposited it in his pocket. Then, with a lingering and evidently expectant manner, the elegant philanthropist bade--farewell I "Farewell, sir," replied the girl, heroically, and with rigid politeness bowed him to the door. He lingered on the step outside for some time, expecting to hear perhaps a fall, or may-be a scream, at least a sob. But he lingered in vain; all was silent as the grave. "She takes it coolly," he muttered to himself, as he sheepishy walked away, his inordinate vanity shockingly chagrined that no scene had immortalized his Hegira from Latin and love. Towards morning, however, Nannie, Mattie's maid of all work, was awakened from her sleep by a noise which, even in her oblivion, produced by fatigue, chilled her blood. She hastily arose and ran to the room of Mr. Douglas; all was quiet there. She thought the noise must be in the street. She threw up the window and peered forth into the dark, damp night; the tones still fell upon her ear, as if some one in deepest pain, un- able from very agony to form complaint, only poured out its moan of anguish in sounds that could not be shaped into words. "I will go and call Miss Mattie," she said, " and see if she can make it out." She proceeded to Mattie's room, and gently tapped at the door. The response that came curdled afresh the terrified woman's blood. Trembling from head to foot, she opened the door and entered; 20*   234      DOINGS INX MARYAND, - there lay the unconscious sufferer, delirious with fever, raving in her pain. "She takes it coolly," he said; but he did not see her now. The Christian's high festival has chimed its merry peal throughout all Christian lands; the natal day of America's best-loved son-the immortal Washington--has been cele- brated throughout the length and breadth of this majestic land, and yet the meek sufferer lies upon her couch of suffering. The soft gales of spring relax the frozen earth; I the perfume of flowers ascends-an incense-offering given by the grateful earth to her Maker-ere the invalid is able i to resume her labor. Physicians say it is typhoid fever I she has had; there is no heart-fever known to the medical ! vocabulary, and yet more die annually of that than die of typhoid. Mattie returned again to her duties, but she labors now in the spirit of a drudge, where before she labored in the spirit of an artist. Not all the tyranny of the Star-Cham,- ber Committee could affect her thus. Their insolent op- pression but wounded her pride, or roused her indignation; but this,-alas, "a wounded spirit, who can bear!" As she entered her school, for the first time after her illness, a hundred little bounding, loving hearts leaped high to greet her,-an ocean of love laved her feet; but, ungrate- ful Mattie I how willingly would she have exchanged all the pure unadulterated adoration of 'these earnest, unpol- luted spirits for one reconciled glance from his false eye; for one loving word from his lying lips I And where, at that moment, were those false eyes and falser lips? We shall see.   OR MATILDA DOUGLAS.        235     :! CHAPTER XLVI. DECEIT. "Though I do hate her as I do hell pains, Yet from necessity of present life I must show out a flag and sign of love; Which is, indeed, but sign." AT Mount Monument Place, at the door of one of the most elegant mansions of that elegant neighborhood, stands the splendid equipage of one of the most wealthy inhabitants of that wealthy locality. The carriage is oc- cupied by a lady, apparently in ill health, going to take her morning drive. This lady is deformed in person, and scarcely better in mind.  The artifice of art, however, goes far to conceal the bodily malformation; and the bril- liancy of jewels, with the weight of her golden prospects, partially obscure the mental deficiency that would consign a poorer woman to " never-imagined oblivion." Professor Waverly passed just as the lady emerged from the hall-door: with true turkey-buzzard scent he knew time and place. He mounts the marble steps with a single bound, and, with great gallantry, proffers his arm to assist the lady to her carriage. "Oh, you naughty truant," she exclaims, " why did you not come to us last night ? The last party of the season too, and so large and brilliant !" The professor bows with an air of sorrowful pique, and replies, " I knew I should not be missed." "Oh, yes, you were missed, though I Grandpa was quite   o"u zuIwVS IN MARYAND, lonesome without you, and every time the door opened we were disappointed that you were not announced.'" " You make me proud and happy," replied the professor, bowing profoundly with his hand upon his heart. "Par- don me this once, and I promise to atone in future for my seeming neglect." "' Be sure you do, then, you naughty truant; grandpa is always so glad to see you." He bowed to the earth, the horses dashed off, the car- riage rolled away with its bundle of lace and jewels, and the professor sauntered in another direction. He was elated, and yet sad,-sad, because he felt that his fate was fixed; elated, because of the wealth and position he would acquire by this alliance. But, oh, the horror of being fastened for life to a deformed idiot, and he so intelligent, so fastidious, so cultivated I The cold sweat stood in big beads upon his brow as the thought rushed upon him, "And I, perhaps, be the father of a race of deformed idiots-horrible 1" Who is this being of the mantuamaker's make and the jeweler's creation before whom the learned and scientific man bows to the dust as the Persian to his sun-god at early morn? She is our old acquaintance, Miss Mary Flum, poor Mattie's earliest, bitterest enemy; she who so scorned the child of poverty at school, she who placed to her lips the bitter cup of helpless childhood's wrongs. Surely, " There is a divinity that shapes our ends, rough- hew them how we will." Much as the spoilt, spiteful heir- ess admired the showy professor with precisely the same instinct that she admired a red shawl, or a pink bonnet; often as she commanded her grandfather to get the hand- some man for her husband, just as she importuned for a new set of jewels, or a new carriae,--had she known that his hand, the one she so much coveted, had touched the    hand of Matilda Douglas, that he had kissed books to her, that although he tried to stifle the cry of nature in his heart, he loved her in spite of himself,-ah! I ad Mary Flum known that I like as she drove the hungry beggar from her door, with taunt and mocking jibe, just so sav- agely would she have driven from her presence the elegant beggar, who modestly asked nothing but her all. Ladies, it is a strange custom among you to treat with marked courtesy and confidence the bold mendicant who asks your broad acres, that he may waste them ; your bank stock, that he may lose it at cards; yourselves, that he may shut you up in a madhouse, if he please, while you spurn from your gilded sill the timid wretch that hum- bly asks a crust to appease the gnawing of that vulture- hunger-which, with ever-plunging beak, is tearing soul from body I Precisely so the rogue in ruffles floats along, fanned by prospering gales, while the rogue in rags rots out his wretched life in dungeons deep as Hades. Fortunately for the prospects of the elegant professor, Miss Flum knew nothing of his acquaintance with the object of her scornful aversion; so all went merry as a marriage-bell. :The wedding was fixed for the following winter, to come off at the banqueting season, when all the world would be assembled in the city,-all Miss Flumes world, at least. The time had now arrived for the ton to take their flight from the thirsty streets, to catch the healing breeze in rural retreats, and gather roses for revel-robbed complexions; to rejuvenate in mountain-air, bathe in the briny surge, and drink from medicated springs. So the Flums, like other idlers, took up their line of march to make the circuit of fashionable travel. Professor Waverly was now regarded as one of the family, and, of course, invited to make one of the pleasure- party. Great glory for Miss Flum to exhibit her elegant-   238     DOINGS rIN MARYAND, looking and really intellectual fiance, together with some flaunting ribbons; one as indispensable to her happiness as the other. They made the tour of Niagara, Saratoga, Newport, and wherever else the tide of fashionable folly surged. The ladies of society rolled up their eyes, drew down their brows, extended their nostrils in wide dis- gust, that such a distinguished-looking man, and one whose cultivation was indisputable, should marrv such a ! piece of idiotcy and deformity. They declared it was like A the mating of a bat and a peacock, or a splendid Arabian ? with a miserable donkey. But the men of society shrugged their shoulders, and voted him a "devilish shrewd fel- low!" "Old governor soon die,"' they said, "consumptive hunchback ditto; he be heir to a cool million. Confounded shrewd fellow P" When Mr. Flum, who was feeble with age, was weary of the discomforts of travel, and Miss Mary was sated with exhibiting her splendid purchase, and the purchase himself was sick to death of being shown about like a wild beast, or unique bird in a menagerie, the party decided to return to Maryland, and upon the home-farm spend the autumn, until the time arrived at which arbitrary fashion would allow them to take possession of the city mansion.   OR MATILDA DOUGLAS.        239 CHAPTER    XLVII. DISCOVERY. "But if no radiant star of love, Oh, Hymen! smile upon thy rite, Thy chain a wretched weight shall prove, Thy lamp a sad, sepulchral light." "IT gives me wonder great as my content to see you here before me," quoted Professor Waverly, as he went forth to view the broad lands that he was soon to call his own. And only now be began to realize the good fortune that was his, now that he could make an inventory of Mary's property. He took long rides every day about her estates, gloating with ardent gaze upon his real bride,- the long series of acres, the interminable timber-lands, the splendid orchards, the inexhaustible quarries,-all of which he was to receive in exchange for a gold ring, for that was all he had to give; he had not even a heart to call his own, so totally destitute was Professor Waverly. He had some taste, however, and to amuse himself and drive away other thoughts, he planned improvements. He would clear the forest from the front of that cascade yonder, and bare its picturesque beauty to the carriage-drive, that wound its serpentine course to the mansion. He would clear an avenue to the top of that high hill, whose summit affords a bird's-eye view of the surrounding landscape. He would build an observatory there, and furnish it with glasses of the finest sweep. He would invite the scientific from all parts of the nation, and with them feast upon the stars.   240      DOINGS IN MVARYAND, Then, as a latent sigh would half escape, he would check it and exclaim, "Pooh! pooh! nonsense I who would ex- change all this for love? Beardless boys and boarding- school misses, not sensible men." Then he would continue to plan-: "I will have that ugly gully filled up and planted with trees, rare and beautiful; that meadow, yonder, converted into a lake, and filled with fish; those wild flowers, that 'blush unseen and waste their sweetness on the desert air,' transplated into my garden,-and oh, that garden I it shall be a miracle of beauty! My conserva- tories, my graperies, my whole establishment, shall excel anything of the kind in Maryland. I'll teach these people what taste and refinement mean!" Poor Mary was never thought of in all this splendid scheming, only as a necessary incumbrance,-an unsightly, but indispensable piece of ore that contained the needful metal. And the piece of ore,--what was it thinking of? Nothing of more importance or greater moment than its twelve dozen night-caps! and, if the figure may be ex- cused, roaming in imagination among the balls, and din- ners, and masked surprises, and all the fashionable happi- ness in store for ore. From the time a woman is engaged to be married until the joyful consummation, I wonder how many millions of times she, in imagination, luxuriates in the honey of that blissful moon? It was now only Sep-  tember, and Miss Flum was not to be married until De- cember, and yet the house was crowded with mantua- makers, embroiderers, and trimmers of paraphernalia. Preparations of every kind were progressing on the grandest scale. Everything, even the shoes and garters, were ordered by the twelve dozen. Daily consultations as to patterns and material occupied Miss Mary, and fully en- grossed her little mind to the exclusion of everything else. And thus we   see how the parties amused themselves;   OR JMAT ILDA DOUGLAS.       241 neither ever thought of the happiness of the other; but only self self I After Professor Waverly had explored every nook and' cranny of the Flum estate, he made sundry dives into the surrounding country, and, although he tried to cheat him- self into the belief that he was supremely happy, his very restlessness showed that he lied to himself, and that he was as far from beingl happy as he was from being honor- - able. In one of his solitary excursions about the neigh- borhood, the professor happened to come in contact with the ruin of a log cabin: The hut was not entirely pros- trate, but leaned on one side, and the chimney lay at the end, a heap of unsightly rubbish--unsightly, only that sym- pathizing nature came to the rescue and covered the de- graded architecture with the loveliest mantle of variegated hues. The green of summer was mixed with the scarlet berries of autumn, and the rich autumnal bloom of flowers crowned the whole. A creeping monthly rose shed its fragrance in the air, and hung in graceful festoons from and around the windows. The ivy, with its shining green, silently crept and lay along the door-sill and step, as if to interdict intrusion into this temple of nature. Fox- glove and sweethrier contended for the privilege of most adorning the roof. Near by, a babbling run bespoke the presence of a spring; the visitor advanced to taste its water; the bottom was paved with beautiful shells. A trellis-work over the spring supported vines laden with de- licious grapes,--not wild grapes, but the best of cultivated fruit. Behind the ruin was a bee-hive. As the stranger came near, the little busybodies commenced a flirtation with him, simply for the sake of finding out his business. They touched his nose, and peered into his eyes, and did everything but ask for what they most wished to know. In the midst of the garden stood the sun-dial, an article 21   242     DOINGS IN ZMARYAND, of most peculiar make,-ingenious and yet simple. The i learned man was sadly puzzled to imagine who could have inhabited this secluded spot, lost in-the forest, and only found by the huntsman or the chance excursionist like himself. It was evident to his cultivated eye that science and taste had some time found a lodgment here. "That sun-dial," said he, musingly, "could have been made by no one but an astronomer. This shell-paved spring was the work of childhood, and those bird-boxes were   placed here at the suggestion of female love for the sweet music of nature." The professor was inspired. He drew I forth materials, and proceeded to sketch. The ruin and ? its surroundings were transferred as if by magic to the sheet of the artistic observer. He hastened home, and, i summoning Miss Mary to the parlor, proceeded to exhibit the drawing, eagerly inquiring about the former occupants of the place. "Dear Mary," said he, " do you know of any place in the  neighborhood which this drawing represents?" Even the feeble perceptions of Miss Mary acknowledged the faithfulness of the picture, and she screamed out, "Oh, dear me I! you have made the Douglas Ruin complete 1"  Waverly started as if a serpent had stung him. "The what?" he exclaimed; entirely thrown  off his guard by the rush of feeling be experienced. "Why, we call that place the Douglas Ruin, because people of that name lived there last." "And who were they, and where did they come from, and where did they go to, and where are they now?" The proud man of science and refinement rushed question after question with the volubility of any uncultivated plow- man; such was his excitement for the moment. "Why, lovey," said Miss Mary, " I never saw you look so animated in my life; and it makes you look so hand- some. Do   look that way when we are standing up to be   OR MATILDA DOUGLAS.        243      ' J married: it will vex Emily Grandairs so much, the envious  thing; she is telling it all about that she does not believe you love me at all."  The groom elect patted the mental infant upon the  cheek, much as one would a poodle dog, and smilingly  said, "Go on, dear Mary, with your narrative of this    Family, and never mind what Emily Grandairs or any- body else says. I really am anxious to know more about  the occupants of this picturesque little Ruin."  "Well," she said, "I will tell you all I know about them after dinner,--now it is time to dress. And just look  at this flower that I have embroidered on my night-cap,- is it not beautiful?" The learned man, without looking at the cap, pronounced it beautiful, and the enraptured simpleton hobbled up-stairs I  to try it on and show the effect to her women in waiting. CHAPTER    XLVIII. NEWS. "Who, that hath been, Could bear to be no more?  Yet who would tread again the scene He trod through life before?"         DINNER being over, the professor impatiently reminded    i Miss Mary of her promise to give him an account of the    i  Douglases, the fairy-like residence of whom-he had so unex- i pectedly found. "Well, I declare," said she, " it is so strange that' you should take such an interest in those poor, vulgar people. I really can't understand it"!"   244      DOINGS IN MARYAND, "Not vulgar, Mary, however poor they might have been. Poor people are not necessarily vulgar people;  these had science and taste among them, the unmistakable signs of which still remain around their former dwelling; and science, and taste are not vulgarities," said the pro- fessor, gravely. "Oh, no; I know that science and taste are very grand things, and quite fit for society; but, then, I never knew that people who had science and taste lived in mean houses, or were poor. But, I was going to tell you, all I know of : those people I learned at school; how else should I know people who are not in society? Their only child, Mat, went to the district school when I went, only she went in real earnest and I went in fun, just because I wanted to go. Well, this Douglas girl was a strange kind of person, and appeared as if she did not want to associate with the other girls; she was always reading, and dear old Snipe, our teacher, said she was putting on airs, and he deter- mined to bring her down a  peg. He often remarked to me, 'Miss Mary, the aristocratic bearing of that girl would just suit you, but with her it is perfectly ridiculous.' 1S "But some persons do not require the adventitious cir- cumstances of wealth to make them elegant, or, as you term it, aristocratic. Such are the aristocracy patented by nature, and you can never bring them a peg lower, batter them as you may," said Waverl.  "Well, I  don't know about such things, only I know this girl was a most presuming thing, and had' the assur- ance to drink before me one day at school, and she was I sharply reproved by the teacher, when she set up such a  howl that he drove her from the house. The next morn-  ing, to show her independence, she returned to school too late, and when reprimanded by the teacher, she threw an inkstand at his head and then bounded out the door like a rabbit. I  helped the children to run after her to bring her   OR MATILDA DOUGLAS.       245 back. I did want so badly to see her whipped, but Bill Allston, who, they say, is so distinguished now, took her part, and, in trying to rescue her from punishment, chased her into the milldam. He jumped in after her, however, and prevented her from being drowned. I always thought him a fool for his pains, but those Allstons were queer people, though they were in society, for they were always attending poor people, and their own servants. Mrs. Allston lost her life by nursing her sick servant. Matilda Douglas did not come to school any more, and we heard no more of them until Mrs, Douglas died. Then we heard that the man, her husband, had lain out in the snowstorm all night, and that the poor woman was so alarmed about him that she died from anxiety during the night, and when Mat and her father returned they found her dead." "What do you mean, dear Mary, by saying Mat and her father? Was the child out all night, too?" asked the pro- fessor. "Oh, yes; that is the funniest part about it. She stayed in the woods all night with her father, and it was an awful storm I She built a fire in the woods and kept her drunken old father from freezing. She was, like Bill Allston, a fool for her pains. She had better let him have died. I would." "She was a brave, good girl," said the professor, with energy. "Oh, you know those common people are so coarse -they can bear anythingl" said the lady of fashion, scornfully. "I am sure the very thoughts of it would have killed me." "And it was the thoughts of it that kept her alive," said the professed lover, with involuntary sarcasm. "But please proceed with the story, for truth is certainly stranger than fiction." "Oh, I am interesting you, am I not? But I don't know much more about them, only after the woman died 21*   A 246      DOINGS IN MAR YAND, Mrs. Allston made quite a protegee of Mattie, and I ex- pect would have brought her into society if she had not died herself, and indeed I am glad she did, for I would rather have died myself than to have met that charity-girl in society. Mrs. Allston permitted Mattie's mother to be buried in the Allston family graveyard, and now, as just serves her right, she has to lie in the grave by the side of that low woman. As for me, I am sure I should get up in my shroud and go away from any such companionship."  "What became of the family after the death of Mrs. Allston?" inquired Waverly. "Oh, I believe they moved to the city, and Mat became a teacher, or something of the kind; but after they left the log cabin no one would live in it, because the negroes said it was haunted, and on stormy nights Mrs. Douglas could be seen running to the woods and back. Negroes, you know, are so superstitious, and whites, of course, would not live in such a place, and so the house has remained just as the family left it." "Where on the Allston estate is the family grave- yard?" inquired Waverly. "When you visit the place, you cannot fail to see the graveyard, for Bill has sent a splendid monument from Italy and had it placed upon his mother's grave, and it is so conspicuous that it can be seen from all parts of the plantation. But why do you ask? Do you intend to act the part of Old Mortality, and tinker your neighbors' graves?" And the silly girl giggled as though she had said some- thing extremely witty, and made, as she boasted to her lackeys, "a classical allusion that quite astonished the professor, because he had no idea she knew so much 1" From that day some strange fascination drew the pro- fessor to the Douglas Ruin every day, and his chamber was perfumed with flowers gathered from the garden and fallen walls.   OR MATILDA DOUGLAS.        247 CIIAPTER    XLIX. REFUSAL. "i Hypocrisy, the only evil that walks Invisible except to God alone." As Mattie, more dead than alive, was toiling in her school one day, Slytickle made his appearance. The sight of the reptile gave the sick girl a-chill,-some such sensation as you mightlexperience when, inadvertently putting down your hand, you felt a snake under it, or, to use a more musical figure, some such feeling of disgust as Marguerite expresses when she meets Mephistopheles at the tomb of her brother. He began, "Why, I declare, Miss Douglas, you are buried alive in this place I It is a shame to keep you here. Besides, you can never get up a school in this horrid neighborhood, unless, indeed, you can educate grindstones and brickbats!" "I am not in despair about the school," replied the pale and nervously agitated teacher. "Children are coming from other sections of the city, and I am succeeding in spite of all the difficulties which surround me. I suppose a failure was hoped and intended by those who placed me here; but they will be mistaken, and find that I am not officially murdered, after all i" Slytickle was disconcerted. He was evidently on a mission; but Mattie's contentment and hopefulness sur- prised his snakeship so much that he did not know how to proceed, and had a mind to glide back to the Stair-   248      DOINGS IN MARYAND, Chamber for further direction. It had been surmised by himself and co-conspirators that the severe illness and continued indisposition of the ill-used teacher were occa- sioned by despair and mortification, and it was deemed a good opportunity to remould her while soft from hard pommeling. They wished her services in the school she had left, and at the same time her compliance in all their schemes. The envoy-extraordinary pondered for some time, and at last, because he could think of no better in- troduction to his subject, commenced: "Well, Miss Douglas, I am here with a proposal for you, and you can accept or refuse, as you think best. I know you have been treated shamefully by that rascally committee, but, then, that is nothing for them, and-----" Mattie interrupted the tirade of -deceit, and asked, ab- ruptly, "What is your proposal?" "Well, you know, or, if you do not, I can tell you, that one reason for getting you out of the Factory was to get your situation for Miss Becky Sharp. She and Fizzle were always fizzling, and she was constantly complaining to Box of the discomforts of her place, and asking a transfer. Box was her tool: so to work he went, and finished up the job beautifully, as you have reason to know. Sly Becky was at work, too, and all this was only a blind to keep Box in the dark as to her real intentions; for well she knew her influence over him would cease as soon as he found she was going to be married, Box, you know, is a married man himself! To please Becky, however, he lied, and cheated, and manceuvred, and moved heaven and earth to get your situation for her, and then she coolly told him she did not want the situation, she only wanted to let the public know that she was a greater favorite with the committee than you were. But in telling this I don't mean anything."   OR M'ATILDA DOUGLAS.       249 "Oh, righteous Heaven!" cried Mattie; "and so the bread was taken from my father's mouth to gratify the wanton caprice of an unprincipled wretch I How can the arm of God suffer such wrongs to go unavenged?" Slytickle continued, "Miss Ursa Minor has all the time confidently expected promotion, and wonders why her honors are delayed. Her reverend father has electioneered vigorously all around the town and got up quite a religious excitement on the subject; he is looking for the manna and quails every moment, and wonders why the Lord does not send the pillar of fire at his request," laughing a satanic grin. "And now the case comes back to you: if you will promise obedience to the committee and myself, your official superior, you can again occupy the position, and my advice to you is that you accept the offer." Said Mattie, 1"Mr. Slytickle, by all means let Miss Ursa Minor have the situation. I would not accept it again for double the remuneration. Money would be no compensa- tion to me for dishonorable compliance with that which my judgment disavows. I will never barter my inde- pendence of thought and action for pecuniary gain." "Well, now, indeed, Miss Douglas, I did not think you would treat me so, who am your friend. I want you in the school, indeed I do, for the school wants workers in it." "I understand," said Mattie; "you want me to do the work that will sustain the reputation of the school, and at the same time be a tool for the designing. Never I This is my answer. I most respectfully decline your offer." "Perhaps when your health improves you will think differently; and I hope you will; I shall give you time for reflection." Mattie, in deep dejection, replied, "I am afraid my health will never be restored; but were it not for my father   250      DOINGS IN MARYAND, I would hail death as a benefactor, and gladly lay in the peaceful grave my troubled life."' " You are young to be tired of life," he said. "Life," she replied, " is not measured by years, but, as  one has remarked, by heart-throbs of anguish ; and in that sense mine has already been a long one." Under the influence of this feeling of despondency, Mattie wrote to the gentleman at whose solicitation she had commenced the study of Latin, declining his offer of  a new enterprise on the score of ill health. CHAPTER     L. PAY-DAY. "The plague of gold strikes far and near,I And deep and strong it enters;       X Our thoughts grow blank, our words grow strong, We cheer the pale gold-diggers. Each soul is worth so much on 'change, And marked, like sheep, with figures." BENEVOLENT reader, did yqu ever enter a soup estab- lishment? I mean a place where soup is provided for the poor,-soup made from old bones, rank and rusty; soup filled with stale vegetables, the offal of the market; soup thickened with musty meal which the rats have refused. Oh, the horrid mess! And yet miserable creatures come from all parts of the city to get a drop of the wretched, greasy mash, because they get it for nothing. Why, it is worth nothing, and it cost nothing to make it; everything of which it is made was furnished for nothing, because everything was good for nothing. And, unfortunately,   OR lMATILDA DOUGLAS.        251      ' that is the case with most things that come by charity.    ; If the donation was worth something in the hands of the donor, it is worth nothing after leaving them. A million    i of dollars is a good sum, and would have been, worth it- self had it been placed at interest for the poor; but buried under a pile of marble, designated "A Musical Institute for Paupers," it is about as fantastically hid as was the monkey in the lady's bandbox, and as useless for substan- tial good as would be a spoonful of dessert to one who had not had a mouthful of dinner. :No doubt, sinecure office- holders are benefited by this munificent donation, and those are about all. How much more wise and practical was the Frenchman, Girard, than this ever so shrewd American, who knew passing well how to make money,        but not how to spend it to the best advantage of the suf- fering poor! Like the Musical Institute, however, we have gone to dessert- before finishing the first dinner- course, so we reluctantly return to our horrid soup. The filthy rubbish I and to think that beings wearing the form divine will come and touch and taste the greasy pollution, only to protract a little longer a useless life I Better to starve heroically than accept life on such degrading terms. Why not yield it up at once, rather than, by debasing servility, arrest the fleeting breath and stick it a little longer to the starving ribs? If a poor mendicant asks a potato more than falls to his share of slop, he is ordered rudely from the place by the man who receives a handsome salary for doling out the trash and who thus feasts upon starvation. Look at that poor infant in the arms of-a sick mother, scarcely able to sustain even its feather weight,-the mother sick, the infant starved; both sick, both dying with hunger. See, as she puts the filthy liquid to the pure lips of the infant, how it turns away its head, can- not take it, though perishing for food I The mother asks   252      DOINGS IN MAR YANL, a piece of meat for the babe to suck, saying, as she lays her hands upon her empty breast, "I've no thing for it here." The person in charge commands the, pleading mother to leave the place: "she turns his stomach," he says, "by such indelicate allusions ; he will have no ap- petite for his pudding or his poultry at dinner." There comes another pale, emaciated creature; she has just arisen from a bed of sickness, and, induced by an alluring advertisement, expects to find something that shall enrich her wasted blood and send a thrill of activity to the feeble beating of her fainting heart--and lo this cholera rub- bish, fit only to give cramps and indigestion. She tastes, and turns away, and staggers out again to eat and drink the air. Now, after visiting the soup establishment, come with me to the office where teachers receive their little pittance of salary,-where they, too, receive their drop of soup I O man, don't stand there in your health and strength and manly power, and accept that little mite doled out by the hand of official insolence, but go forth and wrestle with life like a hero, take fortune by the beard, pluck out his teeth, and make of yourself what you please! See that girl yonder, with one eye and a shabby black dress; she is a sheep with small price marked upon her back. The poor girl feels lonely in all that crowd, and, approach- ing one standing near, makes a remark and gives a little timid laugh. Now, the Rev. McGilhooter is the man who doles out the soup in this instance; in other words, he fills the checks, and is ever so swollen by reason of his petty office, and exclaims, "No laughing here I want no laughing unless I do it myself!"And then the cheap sheep shrinks away into her corner and into her habitual silence. Another girl, with two eyes,-two bold black eyes,--her person covered with brass jewelry, laughs as loud as she   OR MATILDA DOUGLAS.        253 pleases; much louder than the first, and she is not re- proved. Then the girl with one eye feels that it is be- cause she has but one eye that she must not laugh, else why was the girl with two eyes and brass jewelry per- mitted to laugh unreproved? Here comes another poor creature, timid and not pretty in the vulgar sense of the word,-that is, she has not pink cheeks nor bright- eyes, but she has orphan sisters and a little brother to provide for, so her cheek is pale by reason of the sorrow resting upon her heart and the overmuch labor she has to perform. When school duties are over for the day, this mother-sister has to clean the house and wash the clothes; and cook the food for the little helpless beings depending upon her, and thus work and anxiety have made her prematurely old, and given her a dejected look, which is a subject of brutal jest with the reverend doler out of teachers' soup. As the present subject is standing there waiting for her turn, she is turning over in her mind the best method of dividing the drop, in order that each may get a share, and that it may reach round and cover the most urgent demands upon it. She becomes absorbed in deep and pain- ful thought. Johnny's little naked toes stare at her, and Maggie's old broken hat waves before her mind's eye; she is wondering when she will be able to make the chil- dren look more genteel. The grocer's bill and the baker's are to be paid, the house rent and the fuel must be pro- vided for, and then there will be nothing left with which to dress the children; so the careworn sister is trying, in imagination, to eke out the pittance and make it cover twice its ability. So deeply is she absorbed in this finan- cial scheme, the treasurer has to repeat her name more than once ere she is aware that her little check awaits acceptance. 22   254      DOINrGS IN MARYAND, When the penny-happy and pound-sorrowful woman retires, the facetious minister of the gospel remarks to a commissioner standing near,- "I wonder you elect such sour-looking old maids. What a grum, stupid creature that is! When I get the super- intendence I shall see that none but pretty girls are elected." This with a wink. "But," said "the commissioner addressed, "that is one of our most efficient teachers." "Can't help that, sir; I go for the pretty girls." Again winking at Commissioner A, when they both laughed a coarse, vulgar laugh, in which some of the poor creatures,- waiting for their soup, joined. Some people don't know when they are insulted, but there are others who do, and they don't forget it, either. A teacher, with some flesh on her bones, next advanced to receive her drop; when she retired, the Soup-Ladle re- marked, "That woman has not work enough, or she would not acquire flesh so rapidly. I advise the removal of a teacher from that school, and the doubling of this one's duty, then the salary thus saved can be added to mine; but ascertain first if she has influential friends; if she has, let her alone, or we may burn our fingers." The above was said in an undertone, but not so low as to be inaudible to some present; among the number, Mat- tie was a compelled and silent spectator of this disgusting scene, until she could bear it no longer. Weakened by long indisposition, she was unable to endure what her characteristic fortitude might otherwise have sustained. Giddy and blind, she staggered from the office, staggered out upon the pavement, staggered against a lamp-post, and, layinghold of it for support, vomited blood. A vio- lent hemorrhage, the result of physical weakness and mental torture, rendered her unable to walk; a person   OR MATILDA DOUGLAS.        255 passing obtained a carriage, into which the sufferer was put, and she reached home with life flickering in the socket like the flame of an expiring lamp. CHAPTER LI. A VISIT. - My mother, when I learned that thou wast dead, Say, wast thou conscious of the tears I shed? Hovered thy spirit o'er thy sorrowing son, Wretch, even then life's journey just begun?" AuGusT--the weary teachers' Sabbath of the year- has come at last I Mattie is extremely feeble; health not restored, nor likely to be. That typhoid, as the doctor calls it, has shaken her terribly; yet, he says, " she ought to have been better long ago; he can see no reason why her system does not react more readily. She is young and sound, and why she lingers on in this half-dying con- dition puzzles him to tell. But now that she has vacation she must seek change of air and change of scene, must go to the country, run up to the-top of the highest hill every morning before sunrise, must resolve to throw off her ill health. Nothing like a will in getting over a spell of sickness, as well as in getting through every other diffi- culty," Mattie has long desired to gaze again upon the scenes of her childhood, to visit the friends of her early youth, to stand once more by the grave of her mother and that of her most generous patroness-the sainted Mrs. Allston. Strange that these two beings, the two brightest stars in   256      DOINGS IN MARYAND, Mattie's little heaven of memory, should repose side by i side, their " sacred dust" mingling into one. She thinks if she could but press her aching. heart to the fresh, green mould that covers them it would soothe its pain, and now that her health demands change of air, she will leave her father for a little to the care of faithful Nannie, and gratify the long-cherished wish of her heart. She will take with her a handsome but chaste tablet, and have it placed upon her mother's grave. She wrote to Mrs. Butterfield, to apprise her of her coming, and engage board for a few weeks. That good soul was overjoyed to hear the news, and all the taste and ingenuity of which she was mistress were put into requisition to decorate a chamber and fur- nish a table worthy of the expected guest; for Mrs. But- terfield scouted the idea of compensation. The motherly heart of the kind woman yearned over the " friendless child," as she still called Mattie; now broken in health and seeking her hospitable roof, and she determined to make the visit as useful and pleasant to the invalid as possible. The kindly welcome of a true and generous heart, how sweet it is to the oppressed and griefsick soul! The draught of pure sparkling water to the thirsty palate is as grateful, though it issue from unhewn rock, as if flowing from a marble fountain of richest workmanship. At the appointed time, Mrs. Butterfield was promptly at the cars with her carriage to meet the expected guest. The kind woman was shocked at sight of the object that presented herself. The pale face, the emaciated limbs, the hollow 'eye, the languid step, all so different from the plump, bright, rosy, energetic being who had left the l neighborhood but a few years since. "Well," she exclaimed when she had got Mattie fairly in the carriage, " if this is the effect of town life, if this is   OR MATILDA DOUGLAS.        257 the result of an itching for fame and money, I want none of it I I hate the city!" she said, in the heat of her indig- nation caused by the sight of Mattie's pitiable condition. "I would not live in the city to become as rich as old Flum. But, however, child, as I say, it's of no use to cry over spilt milk, but go to work and mend the piggin. That's my way, so I'll do my best to pick you up a little, and you shall have my pony all to yourself, and you must take a ride on him every day, early in the morning, and against you return I will have a nice breakfast of dainty slap-jacks and stewed chicken with fresh eggs ready for you; and for supper you must eat mush and new milk, and on churning days you must drink plenty of my nice buttermilk. Ah I that will be the medicine for you I My buttermilk has cured many a case of consumption! And then you must laugh and be merry. Why, child, you are too young to sit down and die i" Mrs. Butterfield's regimen would have been excellent for diseased lungs; but a sick heart, alas I what remedies can reach that? The heart must be its own physician; if it cannot -cure itself, none need prescribe. Mattie grate- fully accepted the proffered pony; she was unable to com- ply with the doctor's directions and run up to the hills and down to the valleys, but she scoured the country with her pony's feet. Every spot loved in childhood received a call. Even the little brooks that woke the sleepy forest with their pleasant babbling, upon whose margin she had chased the butterfly and listened to the singing bird, were not for- gotten, and especially was that one remembered whose dark bosom had been for a time her grave. What thoughts stirred her heart as she gazed again upon its troubled waters I The generous youth who had rescued her, where was he? Long years had passed, and she knew not of his fate, only the gossip of the neighborhood said he was 22*   258      DOINGS IN MARYAND, , studying in foreign parts,--studying to become "master of m the art that was mistress of his heart, as he had expressed it to her long years before. Thoughts of his noble deeds and of his noble mother, with all her subsequent life and its attendant suffering, brought thus vividly before her by association, stirred Mattie's spirit to its very depth, and her soul gushed forth in song. Not such, however, as startled the air, or woke the echo in its hilly home, but drawing forth pencil and pocket-portfolio, she wrote the poem which the world has read and will continue to read. That poem was the Rescue. CHAPTER    LII. SURPRISE. "Love, like the wren upon the eagle's wing, Shall perch superior on ambition's plume And mock the lordly passion in its flight." AFTER the discovery Professor Waverly bad made con- cerning the previous occupancy of the Fairy Cot, as he called what had formerly been called the old field-house, it possessed an interest amounting to fascination for his artistic fancy. Scarcely a day passed that he did not pay a visit to the premises, drink water from the shell-paved spring, pluck flowers from the garden and fallen walls, read the time of day and set his watch from the unique sun-dial; and then, throwing himself upon a verdant bank, lie for hours and watch the little bees as they flirted in and out of their richly-furnished home. The spot had a sacredness in his eyes which he carefully concealed from   OR MATILDA DOUGLAS.        259 Mary Flum ; and- he secretly determined that as soon as he came into possession of the means he was marrying, to purchase, at any price, the little farm, to which the cabin was an adjunct, and then to make of the old ruin the love- liest grotto eyes had ever beheld or fancy pictured. He resolved, in spite of Mary Flum,-he would not care to spite her after the knot was tied,-to call it Douglas Grotto, to have the name emblazoned on stone over the door. Thither he would transport his books, and amid murmuring waterfalls and sweet perfume from creeping vines and blooming flowers, he would indulge in feasts of soul and feasts of sense. This grotto should be his retreat when weary of the world and her, his books his bride, and the room in which Mattie slept ere she dreamed of him, the bridal chamber of his heart. One morning this pilgrim to the shrine of something he had never asked himself what, found the door of the cabin open. "Ah!" he exclaimed, "some rascally night-prowler has taken the liberty to sleep here; but I'll rouse him from his sylvan slumbers, and kick him from the door."  He approached, the vine that crept across the stone sill lay bruised and tangled, evidently the foot of an intruder had been upon it. "The vandal!" exclaimed pilgrim, replacing the bruised tendrils,-" and I so careful of it that I would not enter for fear of soiling a leaf." For the first time, although a daily visitor to the spot, the professor mounted the step and stood within the cabin door. "Is any one here?" he shouted at the top of his voice. No reply, save echo. He advanced within the room; on the damp hearth, as if fallen from the mantelpiece, lay a pocket-portfolio.   260     DOINGS IN MARYAND, "Ah!" he exclaimed, " some artist has been here, and, after sketching the rare beauty of the outside, wished to take a survey of the interior, sauntering off, forgetting his portfolio I'll look at the drawing, anyhow, and see if it is better than my own." He opens the binding of blank leaves; but why does his cheek so strangely change its hue? Why do his eyes start almost from their sockets? Is it a picture he sees before him? It is not a picture but a poem; and well he knows the writing, for he has seen the hand trembling by his side translating Latin. The man was bewildered, mystified. "She must be in the neighborhood," was his conclusion, "and yesterday was here, naturally enough, to see her old home"Un- consciously he turned the page, caption after caption passed before his excited vision. The book was filled with poetical expressions. Mattie's genius had at last de- veloped itself. The rock was smitten and the water gushed. Writing had not made her love, but love had made her write. Waverly turned the pages backward and forward, like one in profound meditation, and not knowing exactly what he did, he read the captions and then turned back and read them again. "My Mother's Grave," "Home of my Child- hood," "Oh, that we had never met!" "Grief that weeps not," "i The Rescue," "Where shall we bury Love?"This heading, more than the rest, attracted his attention, and he commenced reading the poem; he had only completed the first line, which ran in- this wise, "In the crushed heart make ye a grave," when a rustle outside the door startled him. "She might be coming I I would not meet her for the world 1"And, throwing down the papers, he bounded from the house. His horse was fastened outside; he mounted, and, dashing the rowels deep into the sides of the animal, flew like lightning from the place. He   OR MATILDA DOUGLAS.       261 peered furtively at every bush and tree as he passed, lest Mattie might start up, specter-like, and impede his progress. Why did the man of honor fear? The word that would have been actionable in law had never been spoken. That day Mary Flum remarked that " lovey was look- ing pensive and worried; he must be getting tired of the dull, lonesome life he was leading; she would invite the society -of the neighborhood, and give him a dinner." No sooner said than done. The housekeeper was at once cited to appear, and a dinner for company ordered on the next day at five. The housekeeper, accustomed to Miss Mary's whims, assured her everything should be ready. A servant was then dispatched with the invita- tions. The next day came, and with it the dinner. The com- pany were delighted, the wine flowed, the jest sparkled; the professor was the gayest of the gay, and did the hon- ors of the house as if he had been accustomed to it all his life. But when the guests were gone, when he had handed the last lady to her carriage, and, with merry laugh ring- ing out upon the cool night air, had wished her pleasant dreams of those she loved; when he had led Miss Mary to the foot of the stairs, and kissed good-night upon her alabaster hand; when he had retired to his own chamber, and his head was upon his pillow, the party, Miss Mary, and all else forgotten, the last thought that crossed his brain ere he sank-into the oblivion of repose was the little portfolio lying on the damp hearth in the old cabin. That caption, "Where shall we bury Love?" surmounted the fumes of wine, and stole through his brain like the odor of flowers steals through a house. Just sinking into for- getfulness, he started with the sigh, "Yes Where? Ah I where?"   262      DOINGS IN MAR YAND, Neither did a night's repose banish the stinging thought, for the first that came to him on waking was the same,- "Where shall we bury Love? where, oh, where?" He sat upon the side of his bed, and, with Newton-like absorp- tion, pondered the great problem. "Wonder if I could get possession of that portfolio again? I should like so much to read that poem, and, in- deed, all of them, and then I would return it. Wonder if she came yesterday and took it away? Wonder where she is staying in the neighborhood? I'll just ride over before she can possibly be about, and if the papers are yet there, I shall bring them away, read them, and put them back." Thus cogitating, he dressed, mounted his horse, and sped with all haste to the cabin. The door was open as on the previous day, and there lay the portfolio just where he, nervous man, had thrown it. With a thrill of joy he snatched it up, thrust it into his breast-pocket, and then rode furiously from the place. As it was early in the morning, and long until the break- fast hour at home, the professor determined to extend his ride by taking a circuitous route, and thus to gain the main road at last, while, at the same time, he could enjoy new scenery and become acquainted with new paths. The one he had now chosen lay through the woods, and the leaves of the trees were heavily laden with the dew of autumn, which sh'owered upon him as his hat came in con- tact with the overhanging boughs. To avoid this incon- venience, this early explorer struck into an open lane which presented an avenue of escape, and this change of route brought him to the Allston estate, and in full view of the towering shaft which Bill had sent from Italy to honor his mother's grave. Fit son for such a mother. Waverly had desired to examine, critically, this monu- ment. It was constantly talked of in the neighborhood,   OR MATILDA DOUGLAS.        263 and extollpd as an effort of surpassing taste. A connois- seur in art as well as literature, our learned man consid- ered himself umpire in both; and now' was a favorable opportunity, perhaps, to prove to all around that he could find flaws in perfection, and lay upon the ground this tower of boasted beauty. He did not stop to analyze his feelings, but certainly since he had heard that Allston was the savior of Mattie, and had risked his life to save hers, thus challenging her lasting gratitude, he felt for him some strange and indefinable dislike, and nothing could have given him more pleasure than to have proved by all the rules of art this costly monument a botch! C HAPTER    LIII. MATTIE AMON( THE TOMBS. "Love has perished! list! how they tell, Beating pulse of mine, his funeral knell. Love is dead, ay, dead and gone! Why should I be living on?' THE pony was promptly at the door every morning by sunrise, according to the directions of good Mrs. Butter- field. The gentle animal seemed to sympathize with the frail creature whose weight he bore, and never would budge a step faster or slower than was agreeable to her mood. When she mounted, he would complacently neigh out his welcome, and, tossing his dainty head, seem to say, "( Let me rouse you to a little fun." But there was no fun in Mattie. She was a prey to the deepest melan- choly, and shunned society like a fugitive from justice,   264     DOINGS IN MARYAND, sighing only for the shelter of the peaceful grave. Under the influence of such feelings she would plunge into the forest and spend whole days in its peaceful and somber shade, or else sit by the side of her mother's grave and that of her generous patroness. During those lonely days she did sometimes write, but never read; no book but the book of nature possessed any interest for her morbid mind. She had absented herself from the graveyard while the workmen had been employed in placing the tablet upon the grave, and, on this eventful morning, hastened to view the completed work. The most important events of our lives generally come to us at the most unexpected moments, and little did Mattie think, as she quitted the hospitable abode of unpre- tending generosity on that eventful morning, that ere she again entered its clean and kindly precincts the disease which she thought incurable would be cured, the consump- tion that was consuming life would be rendered innocuous, and consume no more. But how? Waverly, as we have told, had come to sneer, if possi- ble, at the monument, or rather, at Bill Allston's taste in monuments; and thus Mattie and the man met at the tomb. When he entered the inclosure, she was standing behind the noble shaft, and quite obscured from view, until a near approach, by its commanding figure, conse- quently the parties were quite near each other ere thev were aware of the fact that solitude in that sequestered spot was not complete. The surprise, of course, was mutual, and was great. Mattie thought she saw an ap- parition. Had he, for whom she was dying, been sent to her like heavenly manna to Israel of old? or, alas! had he come, perhaps, like Caesar to Brutus at Philippi? With breath suspended, eyes dilated, nostrils expanded, lips apart, hands stretched forth as if to ward off a blow,   OR MATILDA DOUGLAS.        265 she looked the statue of surprise, white as the marble near which she stood. The man of strong nerve and mighty self-possession, learned in the school of the world, was scarcely less unnerved than the fragile girl before him, -she whose life-blood was fast ebbing forth, dyeing the arrow himself had aimed. He started back, exclaim- ing, "Oh, ah yes, yes I I might have expected it,-Miss Douglas visiting her mother's grave." No sooner had the tones of that well-remembered voice, every note of which sounded like mutterings from a grave in her heart, reached the ear of the terrified girl than an uncontrollable flood of pent-up feeling rushed upon her. She lived in one moment concentrated months of agony. She lived too fast to live long; her head swam, her sight failed, her limbs relaxed, she was sinking to the earth. For one moment Mrs. All- ston's monument sustained her; the next Waverly had sprung forward, and received in his arms the insensible girl. He had by this time in some measure recovered from his own extreme perturbation, and felt a strong de- sire to get out of the scrape as quickly as possible; so he laid his burden down upon the ground, her cheek resting upon the slab just placed upon her mother's grave, and, mounting his horse, rode to the nearest house, which hap- pened to be that of the overseer. With the utmost com- posure, he informed the inmates that a lady was sick in the graveyard, and required instant attention. Upon receipt of this intelligence, whites and blacks with one accord exclaimed, "It is Miss Douglas l" and bolted forth in rapid chase, each trying to be first at the spot. Mattie's habit of visiting the graveyard was well known; hence the surmise. Waverly watched from a distance until he saw Mattie lifted into the arms of a stout negress, big Dinah carrying her and little Dinah supporting her feet; then, putting 23   266      DOINGS IN MARYAND, spurs to his horse, he was soon out of sight and sound of the annoying incident. When Mattie recovered consciousness, she found herself in the house of the overseer of the Allston property, his wife and a troop of blacks standing over her, each one anxious to propose something for her relief; and as sooni as she opened her eyes, Mrs. Plowman ordered the room to be cleared and the utmost quiet to be observed  throughout the house, that the invalid might have comrn plete repose. Mattie's first inquiry was, "How did she come there? Did the gentleman whom she met in the graveyard   I bring her?"; i"La, child," replied Mrs. Plowman, ' he did not even get off his horse." The voluble woman then went on to detail how the man on the horse " had galloped up and told them that a lady was sick in the graveyard, and how the blacks had toted her home, and how they and herself had been bathing her face and rubbing her hands, and how glad she was to see her come to at last." At this stage of the narration a servant entered, and inquired what Miss Mattie would have for breakfast. "Prepare her toast and tea, with fresh eggs," said Mrs. Plowman.  "No, I thank you," spoke Mattie.  "I would rather return to Mrs. Butterfield's at once: she will be anxious about me if I do not return at the regular breakfast time." "I have sent to tell her of the events of the morning, and the condition you are in, and she will be here pres- ently: in the mean time you must take some nourishment, because you are extremely weak." The thought uppermost in Mattie's mind was, "What could Professor Waverly be doing in that neighborhood? i and, most of all, what could have brought him to the   OR MATILDA DOUGLAS.       267 graveyard?"This perplexing question she pondered and repondered, without any hope of a solution, because she supposed that as Mrs. Plowman had not mentioned his name she did not know it; but in this Mattie was mis- taken. A stranger can scarcely come to, and certainly not remain in, a country neighborhood, for any length of time, without having everything in connection with himself known and discussed. At last Mattie ventured the question, "Do you know, ma'am, who the gentleman is that found me fainting in the graveyard, and where he is staying in the neighborhood?"That was enough; the question opened the floodgate of Mrs. Plowman's volu- bility, and a torrent was the consequence. She gave an account of Mary Flum's matrimonial engagement to the professor, of his travels with the family, of the improve- ment upon the extensive and valuable property which he designed, and of which he did not hesitate to speak,- proud man H-and which topic was the last sensation in the neighborhood. The simple-hearted country-people deemed the learned professor somewhat of an adventurer, and therefore his affair at Flum's was freely talked of, and plenty of jokes were made about it, not unmixed with a little scorn as well. This part of the subject being disposed of, Mrs. Plow- man-as what woman would not?-launched into an ani- mated description of the bridal paraphernalia, the talk of all the tea-tables for a score of miles around; and espe- cially of the twelve dozen night-caps, the envy of all the girls. Thus rattled on the well-meaning woman, with the best intention,-that of amusing the invalid until her breakfast should be ready and her friend arrive. It is said that words are things; and great things they are, for they rule the world; but little did the gossiper think of the importance of hers on this occasion, for long   268.     DOINGS IN MARYAND, ere the gossip was finished the scales bad fallen from the eyes of the hitherto infatuated girl. As the reader must have seen ere this, Mattie was a person of strong sense and firm will; only this sensation --which we have no means of designating but by the term love,- perfectly indefinable, but none the less fatal, as we have before remarked, and which fact most of us know to our cost-had for a time completely bewildered and led captive her better judgment. Pressing her hands upon her eyes, with her head buried among the pillows to conceal her emotion, Mattie lay like one asleep, but listening with an attention that was fear- fully intense. She suppressed her breathing, lest a word might be lost. The narrator went on with the story, gayly, carelessly, as a child might play with a loaded six-shooter; but in those bullet-words was life, and not death; they were like the message of a compassionate judge to a heart- broken prisoner, and long ere the story was completed, as a bird escapes from its prison-cage, Mattie's spirit had passed from death unto life. "I am free I I am free!" she mentally shouted. "O God, I thank Thee, I am free at last; my bonds part asunder like flax in the flame I Now I know why I was despised: my crime was poverty I Poor, foolish dupe that I was, never to have thought of that In my infatuation, I supposed I had been guilty of something too inelegant or too harsh for his refined nature, or that I did not measure up to his supreme standard of female excellence; and now, behold, he is marrying an acknowledged idiot, ugly and deformed. Oh, what a dupe I have been to my own sick fancy! what an insane estimate I have put upon that man's character! but from this moment and forever I am free from the delusion of love 1" So profound was Mattie's reverie, so completely was   OR MATILDA DOUGLAS.       2C9 she lost in thought, that Mrs. Plowman had to repeat the information several times that breakfast was waiting for her. "I have no need of breakfast," she exclaimed, rising from the bed; "I feel as strong and well as if I had just eaten an ox." And she laughed a wild hysteric laugh. Mrs. Plowman looked sharply at her, and shook her head. "I wish," she said to the servant in waiting, "that Mrs. Butterfield would come. I think we ought to send for a doctor right away." Just then the wished-for visitor was seen advancing up the lane. Mrs. Plowman ran out to meet her, and, with mysterious look and gesture, whispered, "I think there is something wrong in Miss Douglas's mind. I tell you it is more the mind than the body that is sick in that girl's case," said the shrewd woman; " and if I were you I-would send for Dr. Bramble immediately, and get at the facts." "Poohl poohl nonsense!" indignantly exclaimed Mrs. Butterfield; "no such thing! The poor child has been broken down with hard work, nursing a sick father and teaching a large school; the wonder is that she did not die long ago. And then the putting up of that grave- stone brought things all back fresh to her memory and quite upset her." "Well, I am greatly mistaken," replied the incredulous Plowman, "if there is not something on that girl's mind that upsets her more than gravestones, or nursing, or teaching; and I'll bet my year's spinning that she ends her days in a madhouse." "I shall not let her go to the graveyard any more," said the kindest of Butterfields, "and I shall churn every day and make her drink the'buttermilk: she only stands in need of plenty of buttermilk!" 23*   270      DOINGS IN MARYAND, CHAPTER     LIV. RECOVERY. "Brave resolution, I am proud to see So sweet a graft upon a wormwood tree, Whose juice is gall, but yet the fruit Most rare." MATTIE'S affair in the graveyard created some gossip in the neighborhood, as of course it would. In the country, where incidents are scarce, a slight circumstance assumes an air of importance, after passing through the multitudi- nous versions which it receives in its progress from mouth to mouth. The servants on the Allston plantation soon carried the news to those on the Flum plantation, and Miss Mary's maid, getting hold of the story, as it related to the professor, of course lost no time in communicating it to her mistress. The amiable Miss Mary was scorn- fully indignant that her affianced should trouble himself about such a girl as Matilda Douglas. "Why not let her lie in the graveyard and die? If she died there, they could easily dig a hole and put her in and save trouble. Poor people had'no right to expect any better treatment than was given to dogs," said the petted child of fortune. Summoning the professor, she interrogated him closely as to his participation in the affair, now the gossip of the neighborhood. He replied, very coolly, that "he went to the Allston family graveyard, as he had long intended to do, to examine .the much-talked-of monument which young Allston had placed over his mother, and there he    OR MATILDA DOUGLAS.       271 saw a girl who seemed to be exhausted and in the act of fainting; he hastened to give the alarm, and the people whom he notified of the fact all with one accord exclaimed, ' It is Miss Douglas 1' and that was all he knew about the matter." "Faint, indeed! the insolent upstart I Those poor, common people never faint; it is only ladies that faint," said Miss Mary. "She pretended to faint for a decoy!   She thought you would support her in your arms, because I  she saw you were a gentleman, and perhaps you would stay all day with her and fall in love with her, as they do in novels at such times. It was all a scene like those they I  act in the theatres, and I suppose she thought herself quite a heroine. Really, the assurance of the common people in this country is beyond endurance. I wish, lovey, you would go to Congress and make a law to put down the common people, for really they will take the country one of these days if something is not done to suppress them." The professor smiled, and replied, "Certainly, dear Mary, your wish shall be my law in all things.! As soon, how- ever, as the compliant man could get away from this dis- agreeable interview, he went up to his chamber and locked in his trunk the little portfolio, which yet occupied the pocket of his coat and pressed against his heart. As he hid the unbound sheets among his clothes, he muttered to himself, "That girl has so little sense or delicacy or dis- cretion, she would as soon search my effects as not, if she took it into her silly head." All Mattie's plans for exercise were changed after the scene in the graveyard. She determined not to ride or walk in any direction where there was a probability of meeting Waverly. "I am ashamed of myself," she said to herself, " thus to have permitted a jaundiced fancy to absorb my life, to drink up my blood like a sirocco. I   272      DOINGS IN MARYAND, will crush from my heart all remembrance of this delusion and its object. My better judgment tells me he is un- worthy of the pure, unadulterated love of an honest heart. For his sake I would have toiled in poverty all my life; there is nothing compatible with honor that I would not have braved to make -him happy; and, behold, I have been wasting my heart's wealth of love upon a mercenary wretch who has sold himself for gold. Had his heart refused to love me because its greatness required something superior to my humble self, something more in- trinsically worthy of his,exalted standard of taste and re- finement than I dare believe myself to be, then I could have respected him yet the more, would have bowed in reverence to the greatness I could not emulate. But this- it surpasses belief!" She said to Mrs. Butterfield, "I shall not ride out for exercise as usual, but shall walk in the garden until I am tired, and then rest under the trees. Perhaps walking and fresh air will enable me to sleep; it is for want of sleep that I am wasting away. All the night long I lie tossing from side to side, eyes wide open, and turning ever to morning's door, wishing, hoping, praying for the first faint tint of lovely day to come and release me from my prison. If I could but sleep, I would get well at once." "You don't drink buttermilk enough," replied Mrs. But- terfield; "but I am delighted to hear that you are not going out of sight again, for I should be uneasy about you and think perhaps you might be fainting somewhere and none to help you. How fortunate it was that the gentle- man came along just as you fainted, or you might have lain there and died all by yourself." "Though I am yet weak, there is no danger of my fainting now," replied Mattie, "for I feel my cure progress- ing. My heart is stronger; I shall faint no more."   :OR MATILDA DOUGLAS.       2T3 "-Oh, yes; that is the buttermilk, then," cried the de- lighted maker, enthusiastically. "I knew my buttermilk would cure you; it is the best thing in the world for weak insides." And thus our friends go in and out among us, and some- times die upon our bosoms, and we know not the cause. Had Mattie died at this time,-and she would have died had she not been a person of strong resolution,-consumption would have received the blame; and although that monster does cruel work, yet he is not the assassin he is said to be, for thousands die of a broken heart where one dies of con- sumption. At last fatigue, fresh air, and resolution over- came the nervous wakefulness, and blessed sleep triumph- antly chained the sufferer's pain. Improvement was now perceptible to every one, and each day added to her stock of strength. The spell that had bound her was broken, the specks of yellow and purple ceased to bewilder the ex- cited vision, and floated away like mist before the risen sun. With the healthy:reaction came a longing for home; and, indeed, a longer time had been spent away than was at first intended. The convalescent wished again to stand by the bedside of the dear invalid left behind, and to soothe, by every attention, his protracted suffering. Her heart, released from its bitter thraldom, returned to its pris- tine allegiance with redoubled strength, and she promised her Maker and herself that, true as the magnet, never again should it swerve from the pole of self-sacrifice; that hence- forth no thought should intervene to exclude her father from her sole devotion. And now, bidding farewell to the kind woman whose motherly heart had yearned so tenderly over her, Mattie returned to the scene of active duty. Before leaving the neighborhood, however, she sent to the old cabin for the portfolio, which she remembered to have left upon the   274      DOINGS IN MARYAND, mantelpiece. It was gone!"No matter; it is of no con- sequence," she said. "I suppose some mother-rat has appropriated the papers to make a bed, for her young, or perhaps some passing sportsman took them for gun-wad- ding, considering them of no account; and, indeed, they were not of much, for I wrote those poems to ease an ach- ing heart. The associawion connected with them is not pleasant; I am glad they are gone., And thus genius ever underrates itself. CHAPTER- LV. A WEDDING. "H Hear the mellow wedding-bells, Golden bells! What a world of happiness their harmony foretells! Through the balmy air of night, How they ring out their delight! From the molten golden notes, All in tune, What a liquid ditty floats To the turtle-dove that listens while she gloats On the moon!" A WEDDING is being celebrated in the most magnificent style in one of the most gorgeous of our Southern palaces. The preparations for the occasion have been immense; money has been poured out like water. The cost of the bride's dress would be a snug little fortune for many a one, and the jewels she wears would furnish capital for a mer- chant. On the day of the wedding the grandfather of the bride presented the groom elect with a check for the com- fortable little sum of fifty thousand dollars, merely for loose change, for market-money with which to commence house- i..n^.n; +ltf, ,1dA man a id. But. before the sun declined,   OR MATILDA  DOUGLAS.      275 the thriftydgroom had invested to the best advantage the fifty thousand dollars, not doubting but that enough loose change for housekeepinog purposes could be found scattered in Miss Mary's workbasket, or tied in corners of pocket- handkerchiefs, or stuffed in fingers of old gloves. No greater contrast in nature could be presented than I   that which was afforded by the sight of these two persons i o as they stood together vowing to be one. She, the puny, humpbacked, imbecile cripple; he, the tall, majestic, firm- ,knit, symmetrical man, possessing that combination so rarely found united in either man or woman-beauty and intellect. We can think of nothing that would so much resemble this unsightly union as the mating offa splendid Arabian courser with a miserable donkey. But, then, externals are not all; if the donkey had a soul I but when there is neither soul nor body, what is there? Why, they tell, the golden bells, from out their molten golden cells, with their molten, golden notes all in tune,-they tell of the rapture that impels to the ringing of the gold I gold I gold I to the ringing and the shining of the gold I As Professor Waverly approached the altar with that girl on his arm, a sense of his own moral degradation came over him so vividly that his- head sank upon his bosom, and his eye refused to meet the eye of any one present. So perceptibly did he shrink as to elicit remarks from many of the " dear five hundred friends" assembled to honor the occasion; but when it was over, when the knot was tied which may be cut but cannot be untied, when the generous old wine had freely circulated, the man of the downcast look threw off his dejection and assumed a gayety which passed with the bride and her doting grandfather for genuine happiness. To a keen observer, however, there was a compression about the mouth and a gleam in the eye which told as plainly as words could have   276     DOINGS IN MARYAND, told, that the lucky man cursed his fate,-a fate which had made him the petted dupe of Fortune's sneering smile. He resigned his bride to the care of her dozen bridesmaids, and, to divert his thoughts, joined the card-players. He never played so badly in his life; he was unable to con- centrate his thoughts upon a single throw, and, as he lost continually, how he wished that he could stake his bride! Regardless of loss, he played with desperate avidity, seem- ingly afraid to look from his cards, lest he should see the woman he had sworn to love and cherish. A lady among the numerous guests so strikingly resembled Matilda Doug- las that whenever she approached the unhappy man his forehead became moist and clammy, the end of his nose and the tips of his fingers grew cold as though a chill ap- proached, and he would call vigorously for more wine I And thou, neglected bride, as thou reposest upon thy pillow of down, trimmed with the richest lace money could procure, dream'st not that he who reposes by thy side, and, in scorn and mockery of words, calls thee wife, would willingly, could he but clutch thy gold, see thee given a prey to the ravenous jaws of all-devouring beasts, or precipitated down that bottomless abyss whose depth is only equaled by eternity, and whose perpetual moan of hollow-sounding woe is the echo its black caverns give to the unceasing wail of spirits lost I lost 1 lost I A few days after the marriage, Mrs. Waverly com- plained to her husband that he had made her so mean a wedding present,-nothing but a simple ring,-and, in her pouting, pettish way, she said, "You might have given me something handsome out of the fifty thousand dollars grandpa gave you; but I really believe you think more of money than you do of me," The new-made husband smiled a grim, dry smile, and replied, "Really, Mary, you have commenced curtain-lectures early."   OR -MATILDA DOUGLAS.        27T CHAPTER LVI. AUTHORS AND CRITICS. "He that writes, Or makes a feast, more certainly invites His judges than his friends; there's not a guest But will find something wanting or ill drest." AN incognito poet or poetess-none but the initiated knew which-had just crept into the public prints, slyly, silently, as a mouse might creep into a cheese-box, and those cats of creation, the critics, had got their paws upon the poems, which, like motherless and fatherless orphans, were wan- dering, unprotected by a name, up and down among the periodicals of the day. Some, of course, damned with faint praise, because that is the sitting-on-the-fence style, and the party may jump either side hereafter. Some, as the cat plays with her victim before slaughtering it, toyed with the effusions long enough to make an article fill a certain space, and then swallowed them at a gulp. One cat in boots said the poems reminded him of the child spoken of in Pickwick; the poor infant had swal- lowed twenty-five wooden beads, and as the father ran along the street, carrying the little unfortunate to the doc- tor, the beads rattled so loudly in the child, that passers-by looked up into the heavens, and down  into cellars, to find where the noise came from, but could find nothing save rattle, rattle, rattle I Another said the poems were mere clippings of ideas from everything that had ever been written. Another 24   278      DOINGS IN MARYAND, said they were unmistakably original, they were so outre and nondescript. One of the most celebrated of the critic crew--a crusty old bachelor, with all his manliness dried up in him,--no wonder he was crusty-swore the poems were written by a woman, because they were as soft and insipid, as faint and flat, as an over-ripe squash. Another said the poems were certainly written by a man, because they showed a strength of character of which a woman was incapable. One said the rhythm was good, but the ideas poor. Another said the ideas were grand, but the rhythm imperfect. One poor henpecked fellow said the poems were unquestionably the effusion of a manly heart bruised and lacerated by a termagant wife. Notwithstanding all this was said by that class of writers who can say better than they can do, the poems under discussion had taken the public fancy, and were being read all over the land, read and appreciated by a peo- ple who do not wait to know the opinions of those who, to make up an article, very frequently denounce a book without so much as reading it. The balls and dinners given to the bride-Mrs. Waverly -were both numerous and splendid. The professor was freely introduced into, and cordially received by, the fash- ionable circle that was his wife's by inheritance. He was a man of brilliant parts, highly accomplished, and of good character in the general acceptation of the term. His matrimonial speculation, among men of the world, only elicited a smile and a shrug; it did not depreciate him in the eyes of SOCIETY, and the wonderful institution called by that name opened its doors and admitted him. As the professor's taste in literature was established, he was often made umpire on a contested point. The poems of which we have spoken were then being issued, and   OR MATILDA DOUGLAS.        27 9 were much the topic in refined circles. The professor openly declared himself the champion of these produc- tions, and announced his intention of taking up his pen- weapon in their defense. He pronounced them far above mediocrity, and predicted great things for the future of the talented author, if the critic catawaulers did not, in their thirst for the blood of authors, frighten this evidently timid and unpretending claimant from the field. So eulo- gistic was the learned man, and so fiercely did he battle for the writings under discussion, that a suspicion obtained credence to the effect that himself was the author. This insinuation brought him out, and he repelled it, by pro- claiming the author to be a woman. He said he was well acquainted with her, and knew all about the publication of the poems. Mrs. Waverly was not in the least interested in litera- ture, and, in fact, knew so little of the matter as to be scarcely able to distinguish prose from poetry, and cer- tainly not between poetry and rhyme; but the animation of her husband, when defending this woman-author, aroused her jealousy, poor thing, and she exclaimed, "Oh, some old flame of the professor's, no doubt, or he would not be so heated in her defense." The professor colored slightly, but took no notice of his wife's abrupt sally,- she was famous for abrupt sallies,-and went on to pre- dict great things in future for the talented writer, and a high position in the literary world. "And I dare say she will take my position, too, one of these days," said his wife, with another abrupt sally. And now, poor bride-poor with all thy riches-we bid thee farewell! When we hear of thee again, thou wilt be cold in thy marble tomb, reposing by the side of thy weak and too indulgent grandfather, in the grand family mauso- leum.   280      DOINGS IN MARYAND, CHAPTER     LVII. MATTIE AN AUTHOR. "Some are cradled into poetry by wrong, And learn in suffering what they teach in song." IT must have occurred to the reader of the last chapter that the poems so elaborately patronized by the learned man had some connection with the little portfolio found on the murky hearth of the ruined cabin. When the eulogizer pocketed those papers, he certainly intended re- turning them to the owner after having gratified his curi- osity (whether laudable or not we do not pretend to say) by a perusal of their contents. But the opportunity of returning them never presented itself, and, like Pluto's shadow, the package still followed the purloiner. In justice to him, however,' it must be said that neither note nor message could have been transmitted to Mattie with- out the knowledge of Miss Flum, and that would have spoiled all his prospects; neither did he know where she was staying in the neighborhood, and he dared not ask. So the little portfolio, with its eloquent contents, still lay undisturbed at the bottom of a securely locked trunk. No doubt it suggested itself to the mind of Waverly to put the papers where he had found them, as in all proba- bility the owner would return for them; but a dread of their falling into stranger hands, as they had fallen into his own, prevented this easy method of getting rid of them. At last a bright thought flashed across his pondering brain. "These poems are above mediocrity. I will publish them,   OR MATILDA DOUGLAS.       281 and perhaps the author may yet live to bless rather than to curse my name!" This was the new thought, and with the thinker to will was to do. Mattie found the periodical which contained her effu- sions upon her table, the first intimation she had of their continued existence. Many complimentary remarks ac- companied the publication, and a solicitation for others, begging the author's pen not to remain idle when it could yield gems with every stroke l Now, the great question with the writer was, who could have published these lost and almost forgotten papers-? Certainly not the tender mother-rat into whose keeping Mattie's mind had consigned them as bedding for her young; nor yet the passing sportsman,-oh, yes; this last thought afforded a clue I Some passing sportsman or excursionist had found the papers, and who so likely to be the person as Professor Waverly? His restlessness was proverbial in the county. People said he would rather live in the woods with the owls, than in the house with his affianced. Mattie at first considered this conjecture an established fact, and then she reasoned upon it until she rejected it; for why should she expect kindness from him? He had shown her nothing but contempt since the day on which he stole her heart and then cast it from him as a thing unclean. Thus did she reason, conjecture, and reject. The poem entitled "The Burial of Love" was not pub- lished; withheld from public gaze by the man who made the misery, because he felt it to be too sacred a heart- throb for the eye of the curious. It told its own story too plainly,-the bleeding heart dripping all the way; and herein lay Mattie's strength as a writer; her pen was a pencil; the reader saw as well as heard. Mattie was grateful to the publisher for withholding this poem, and 24*   282      DOINGS IN MARYAND, that circumstance, more than any other, served to fix sus- picion on Waverly, because he only could have understood those lines, and all the intensity of anguish they por- trayed, even then but half expressed. Every nerve of the poor girl's quivering heart was being torn from its clasping-sheath when those lines were written. To ease the burden that was insupportable, she poured forth her soul in mournful numbers; told the story of her love in simple but sadly plaintive tones, and such as were well understood by him, the cause of all this suffering. We have seen that one generous impulse was aroused in his selfish heart, and perhaps it was this poem that did the work, with its wail of "love, love that was her all of wealth, and had been wasted like water in a broken bowl." The poem entitled "The Rescue," and which embodied the history of Mattie's flight from school, her dip into the flood, her escape from impending death, her gratitude to the brave boy her preserver, was admitted by the most fastidious to be an effort of superior merit. And this poem made Mattie's fortune. Letters flowed in upon her, offering rival prices for her contributions, and thus mys- teriously was she made acquainted with her rich and graceful intellect. She delighted in nothing now so much as in her pen, and prose and poetry gushed forth as water from the smitten rock. Every effort was received with a fresh burst of applause from this most friendly of reviewers, and the remuneration given was generous to profusion. Who could this unknown benefactor be? was of course, to Mattie's mind, a constantly recurring question. She knew that Waverly was a literary man, and that he once wrote for pay; but she did not know that he was now master where once he served. Had she known this, all   OR IATILDA DOUGLAS.         283 doubt would have been at an end. Since, however, this unknown friend chose to shroud himself in mystery, the recipient of his bounty, with great good sense, made no effort at discovery, but quietly toiled on, and gratefully gathered the fruit a kind and beneficent Providence, who brings good out of evil, had placed within her reach. After a time she discarded the small shot of literature, and, taking courage from the past, attempted the bullet, as Sir Walter Scott calls the volume in contradistinction to the random sheet. Her success was even greater than before, and now the full-fledged author stood confessed. Fame and money lay at her feet, filled her lap; it was scarcely necessary for her to stoop to pick up the golden and flowery gems of wealth and plaudits that bestrewed her path. st Though the world should thee disown, Turn not coward and despair; Prove thou the rejected stone True to the Eternal Square, And the mighty Builder may, In the wondrous scheme of man, Set thy life some glorious day The grand keystone of his plan." [ '   284      DOINGS IN MARYAND, CHAPTE R    LVIII. DEATH. "Death is the privilege of human nature, And life without it were not worth our taking. Thither the poor, the prisoner, and the mourner Fly for relief, and lay their burden down." IT matters not how long death may have threatened a loved one, we are unprepared for the blow when it falls. We are unprepared to acquiesce in a severance of hearts, because we have no means of knowing that they will ever be reunited. Mattie had labored for her father until his existence became the stimulant necessary to exertion. Many a time and oft would she have given up, yielded to the fate that seemed ready to engulf her, and implored death to relieve her of herself, only that her father, help- less and unsolaced, depended solely upon her care. For his sake, then, she must strain anew those jaded powers, nmust rouse, as by a mighty effort, those flagging energies, must make another effort to hold up, and hold on. NPow that he is gone, she will have but little heart to work. Fortunately, her work is done. A kind Providence ushers upon her another epoch, and removes from her generous care the mainspring of her action when its existence is no longer necessary. Had Mattie been nourished in the lap of luxury, in all probability those powers of mind which she possessed might never have been developed; hence misfortune proved a blessing, and by throes of deepest anguish her talents were brought forth,-were made effect- ive. These, nourished by stern necessity, like the snow-   OR MATILDA DO UGLAS.       .85 flower, blossomed and exhaled sweets when all else was dead. The ill management of Mr. Douglas and his subsequent misfortune threw upon his child the burden of his life and her own. Nobly did she battle with adverse fortune, and gloriously did she triumph; and he lived to see her through it all,-to see her placed beyond the reach of care. True, her own industry and ability, by the blessing of -Heaven, had accomplished the work; but her, un- looked-for success was to her father a gilding of his even- ing cloud after a stormy day; and his language to Mattie was, "Now let me depart in peace, for I have seen thy glory."  The night is lighted by the silver moon for a center- lamp, and her starry adjuncts, as side-lights, glitter round. The air is hot and oppressive. Mattie has been seated by her father's bedside the livelong day, fanning him and ad- ministering refreshing draughts. It is obvious to all that he is sinking rapidly. Now a cooling breeze sways in and out the thin drapery hanging at the chamber window; with the breeze comes the perfume of flowers growing in the yard. The sick man has requested the light in the room to be extinguished, and all but his daughter to with- draw. Said he, "Let me have the moonlight; I only want the light that God has made, and I want to view his won- drous works once more in this lower world, ere I go to gaze upon his greater glories in regions of never-ending existence. And now, Mattie, my love, come and lay your head upon my pillow for the last time; lay your cheek to my cheek, your hand in my hand, while I pass this dark river whose chilling waters lave my feet. Mattie, I have grievously sinned against God, and against thee, my child; but "where much is forgiven, the same loveth much." I am happy. Behold the silver lining of yon lovely cloud I from   286      DOINGS IN MARYAND, out its shining folds your mother looks. She beckons me away. I come I I c-o-m-e! I come!" The hand relaxed its grasp, the cheek fell cold against Mattie's cheek,-all was over. And thus in the moonlit chamber, alone with his daughter, the sufferer for many a weary year was launched upon that dark stream which bears all to their destined port. CHAPTER    LIX. REMORSE. "If hearty sorrow Be a sufficient ransom for offense, I tender it here; I do as truly suffer As e'er I did commit." A SHORT time after the death of her father, Mattie received an invitation to participate in the editorship of a popular New York journal, to which she had been a voluminous contributor. The offer pleased her well: she desired change of scene and labor, something new to divert her thoughts at that melancholy period,--most melancholy to her, for her father had become like a loved infant whose smile and clasp of hand were indispensable to her happiness. Would that our land could boast more such daughters! Honor and renown were nothing to Mattie unless shared by some loved being; he was all she had to love, and, now that he was gone, life had no duties left,- and what is life worth without duties to perform and labor to share with those we love? Mattie was busy one day in packing her books prepara-   OR NMATILDA DOUGLAS.       287 tory to taking up her residence in the metropolis of America, and had given directions that no visitors should be admitted. The old servant had scarcely received her orders when she came running into the library in the most excited manner, saying, "Oh, ma'am, a woman has entered the kitchen by the alley, and will take no denial, but refuses-to leave the house without seeing you. She says ' it is a matter of life and death,' and she will not trust me with the message 1" "I will -go to her," said Mattie; and, slipping her purse into her pocket, she descended into the kitchen. Said the visitor, "I am come to you, ma'am, at the request of a person who is at my house, and, I believe, in a dying condition; she thinks so herself, and says she can- not die in peace without seeing you." "Who is she?" interrogated Mattie, in great astonish- ment. "Her name is Gilt," replied the woman. Now, Mattie at once perceived that this was a poor Irish- woman, of the class usually called washerwomen, or, as the French say, blanchisseuses, and that the fashionable Mrs. Gilt should be domiciled in such unfashionable quar- ters as the house of a woman of this class was perfectly incredible. "You have certainly an impostor with you," said Mattie. "The lady whom I know by that name could not be with you in the condition described." "Yes, ma'am," replied the woman, " she is, indeed; her daughter turned her out of the house, and, sick and poor, she came to me for a night's lodging; in the morning she was unable to go away, and there she is yet, and there she will be, until she is carried out in her coffin." "Her daughter turn her out of the house? Why, you surprise me beyond measure I I cannot realize what you say can be true i" replied the mystified Mattie.   288     DOINGS IN MARYAND, "Well, ma'amn, come and see for yourself, and you will find what I tell you is the truth. Her daughter keeps a boarding-house in the outskirts of the city, and the poor old mother was not pleased with her imprudent conduct, and said something to her on the subject, when the vile wretch struck her own mother and drove her into the street. I live in an alley near them, and make my living by wash- ing. As you will think, ma'am, I have little to give away; but when the poor woman came crying to me, I could not find it in my heart to turn her off, and so you know as much as I do of the affair entirely." "I cannot realize an act so atrocious!" said Mattie, still incredulous. "Well, the poor old soul said it was the judgment of God upon her for the way in which she had treated a young girl that came to her house, asking aid and assist- ance, which she refused, although they owed the child's father money. Now, you are the person; and the dying woman wishes to see you and ask your forgiveness before she goes to the other world." "I will go to her at once," said Mattie, " and my par- don she shall freely have, for I had almost forgotten her existence, and certainly did not remember it in anger. But what has become of their wealth? You say her daughter is keeping a boarding-house?" "The old woman says that her daughter's husband, Grandspirt or Grandsquirt, I don't know which, went through with all his wife's money, and with hers too, and as much as he could get of the other daughters, and reduced them to poverty by his gambling and specu- lating in fast horses, and finally drank himself to death." "Where is the other daughter, Caroline, of whom you speak?" inquired Mattie. "She married a young physician, and went to the West   OR MATILDA DOUGLAS.        289 to live," replied the woman, "and the old mother wishes to go to her if she can find the means when she recovers; but, indeed, ma'am, she will never more walk out of my house, I am sure of that." "I will see her at once," said Mattie, and immediately accompanied the messenger to the bedside of the sick woman; neither did she go without her purse. At sight of Mattie, poor Mrs. Gilt choked qnd coughed, and appeared strangling with emotion. "Oh, Miss Douglas!" she gasped, "I have thought so much of the treatment that I gave you in your days of helpless childhood when you asked my assistance in procuring bread for your sick father, and I refused it, although we owed him the money; when I coldly turned you from my door and put in circu- lation a false report about you, that I felt as if I could not die without asking your forgiveness. When I found we were losing our money by the dissipation of my un- fortunate daughter's husband, I often told the girls that we were not lucky on account of the money we owed your father; but Belinda would not listen to me, and now I believe the poor girl has lost her mind, for she has turned me fronDher house and left me to die in the street." "Arrah, the painted hussy I She has not lost her mind, but has the devil in her!" put in the Irishwoman. "Oh, child, how was it that you did not starve to death, as my wicked daughter hoped you would?" asked the sick and penitent woman. "God took care of me and raised me up friends among those upon whom I had no claim," replied Mattie, "and He will also take care of you if you put your trust in Him; for He hath said,' None that cometh to me will I cast out.'" "But I am so unworthy, and have been so great a sin- ner, can there be mercy in the sweet heavens for me?" 25   290     DOINGS IN' MARYAN4D, "' Tbough thy sins be as scarlet He will make them white as snow,' is the divine promise," replied Mattie. "If I could but go to my dear Caroline and die under her roof, I would be content," continued Mrs. Gilt; " but I am unable to travel if I had the means, and there is nothing left for me but to die in a pauper-house." "You shall not die in a pauper-house," said Mattie; "I will provide for you the rest of your life." The afflicted woman essayed to speak, but tears choked her utterance. Mattie now approached the woman of the house and requested her to go for a physician at once, as she thought-Mrs. Gilt required immediate attention of the very best kind. Mattie sat by the side of the sick woman until the medicine man arrived, who gave it as his opinion that the patient might live a few days and she might die in a few hours, as it was evident she had received some internal injury. He then questioned the patient closely, who at last confessed that she had been pushed down- stairs. She made this admission evidently with great reluctance, fearing to implicate her wretched daughter. The doctor ordered an opiate, and left. Mattie adminis- tered the medicine and waited until it took effeCt; then, promising the nurse to return in a short time, she bent her steps to her own house for the purpose of procuring nourishment for the sinking woman. On Mattie's return, she found Mrs. Gilt asleep; presently she coughed, and awoke. Seeing a sweet face bending over her, she extended her arms as if to embrace the visitor; they fell powerless by her side. Mattie took one of the emaciated hands, and pressing -it, said, "My friend, the messenger is not far from you; if you have a request to make, make it now. Shall I send for Belinda?" "Oh, no I no!" shuddered the dying woman, " see me buried yourself, and write to Caroline, but don't tell her all 1"   OR MATILDA DOUGLAS.        291 Another fit of coughing seized the unfortunate woman, she threw up a mouthful of blood, fell back, and expired. Mattie attended to the funeral, provided a decent coffin, neat and plain. A hearse and one carriage composed the funeral cortege. The coffin-maker, the Irishwoman, and Mattie were all that followed to the grave the once fash- ionable Mrs. Gilt; and thus the weak and wickedly ambi- tious woman was ushered into her long home. Mattie then wrote to Caroline of her mother's death, softening the facts as much as possible, nor ever once intimated that the hand of charity--her hand--hbad provided for that mother a grave and death-bed attendance. CHAPTER     LX. THE ARTIST, "Immortal Art! where'er thy rounded sky- Bends o'er the cradle where thy children lie, Their home is earth, their herald every tongue." "ONG( years have passed, and the boy, Bill Botherme- not, as his companions for sport, but not derision, called him, is yet a voluntary exile from the land of his birth. He had vowed a vow within himself never to return until he returned one of those of whom his nation must be proud. His spirit has held long communing, through their works, with the spirits of the great departed. He has spent years in the society of Raphael, Michael Angelo, Titian, and other of the masters, who defy alike the grave and the conquests of time, and who now stand with one   292      DOIaNGS IN MARYAND, foot upon the mighty past, and the other ever speeding on till the consummation of all things shall blot out the re- membrance of earth and that which her sons call great. We are told there will be a new heaven and a new earth, but whether the great things of the old earth will be the great things of the new, we are unable to decide. Allston lingered near the immortal efforts of these im- mortal men until his soul caught the spark that had lighted theirs, until he, like them, could create, by his own will, forms that seem to live and breathe, such as need not lan- guage to convey a thought, but make the attitude of a finger or the expression of an eye tell the cherished secret of the defying lip. His purpose is at last accom- plished, and now he will return to his much-loved home- land, and although he does not expect it, yet he will re- ceive the ovation which a nation's just and generous pride is ready to bestow. Borne upon the breeze comes the news,--Allston, the great American artist, is returning home, laden with the toil of years, and will soon be here to lay his rich treasure at his country's feet. Shall the offering be spurned, or will Columbia acknowledge the ob- ligation?  She willl As the vessel that contains this precious freight nears her bed in New York harbor, salutes from deep-mouthed cannon cleave the air,-as a conqueror comes he is ushered in, and thousands crowd to greet him; to look upon him;  to hold him by the hand,--this Titian of the later day,-and to say, Welcome I thrice welcome home again, gifted son of America I When the day that was named for the opening of his pic- ture-gallery arrived, crowds from all parts of the nation throng the portals of this temple of glorious art. Artists from east, west, north, and south come to enlarge their capacities at this fount, and drink deeper inspiration at this shrine. Men of taste and money come to purchase paint-   OR MATILDA DOUGLAS.        293 ings that shall descend to their posterity as heirlooms of priceless value, because they can never be replaced. The white-haired patriarch comes with deep emotion, and swells the tide of eulogy that is rolling over the author of this new creation. Mothers bring hither their infant sons, hoping the mantle of inspiration may fall upon them, and that they too may become Allstons I Lovers escort to this enchanted place the objects of their devotion, for the chance of winning a smile, by comparing the loved one to some beautiful creation of the painter's fancy, and last, though not least, bright-eyed beauty comes with her serene smile,-for the artist is a bachelor I Among the number who visit the shrine of genius, there is one that most attracts the attention of the great artist. This pensive, pale-faced creature comes at early morn and sits till dewy eve, and then only goes when he is told the gallery must be closed for the night. This is an artist too, with all the fire of aspiration burning deep into his soul; but he is a poverty-bound man, he cannot get away to foreign parts, and must struggle as best he can to obtain the mistress of his heart,-Fame. Insensible to all the stir of life that flutters round him, he is intent only on dyeing into his soul those magic tints, those rich colorings,-fastening to his brain those faultless attitudes with which this monarch of the pencil has invested his immortal conceptions. From an unob- served position, Allston closely scans the workings of that expressive face,-he sees those thoughts, and a triumph for him is written on every flash and beam of the young man's eye. The master-artist well understands the de- votion with which the student gloats upon that little inch of canvas, passed unobserved by the ordinary spec- tator; he can estimate the cost of brain bestowed upon it, -it is a gem, and he lingers before it until every shade 25*   294      DOING S IN MARY AND, of its magic tints is stamped into memory, never to be erased. This poor pale-faced creature, with his threadbare coat, little thought of the interest he was exciting in the mind of the master-painter, and that he was even now pinning him upon his sheet. Seizing a favorable opportunity when the student was most absorbed, Allston sketched him in such perfect nature that you could but believe the man was framed. The portrait spoke all the restless fire of hope deferred that flickered in his eye; the deep-drawn breath, as if it were a never-ending sigh; the longing agony that burned like fever on his brow; the parted lips, the nostrils spread; in fact, the very fingers said, "How can we clutch it,-how?"This portrait, placed in the most conspicuous part of the gallery, held its constant crowd. Every one that entered recognized the perfect resemblance to the ever- present, ever-absorbed original. One day when the gallery was crowded to repletion, Allston announced his intention of selling a portrait by lottery, so that all might have a chance of possessing it. The price he fixed at five thou-, sand dollars, the money, he said, to be applied to a chari- table object Of course chances were taken faster than names could be recorded. Every one present, except the object of it, understood the well-timed benevolence, and the look of agony that was upon his young face, when he turned away unable to take a chance, was painful to behold. "Will you not take a chance?" asked Allston. "I am not able," replied the student, coloring deeply. "Then I will make you a present of ten," said Allston. The youth opened his great brown eyes upon the artist as though looking up to God. Ten chances were placed to his credit, one of which bore the prize, and thus, without ever suspecting the fact, he won himself, and received the portrait and the five thousand   OR MATILDA DOUGLAS.        295 dollars. He was now almost as great an object of interest as Allston himself, who, to complete the magnanimous job, took the student for his pupil. The young man's fortune was, made. Matilda Douglas is in New York, and, by the papers, knows all that is passing in the studio-gallery of the artist. Does she come to swell the tide of adulation, to renew her acquaintance, to claim the privilege of calling the great man friend? She comes not, -and why? CHAPTER      LXI. DOST THOU REMEMBER? "When shall we come to that delightful day When each can say to each, ' Dost thou remember?' Let us fill urns with rose-leaves in our May, And hive the thrifty sweetness for December." AMONG the most admired of Allston's paintings was one which, by a strange coincidence, he called "The Rescue." This painting told the story of a young girl in danger of being drowned; a boy was battling with the flood and bearing her from the water. In the background was seen the old school-house, from which issued the children, open- mouthed, eager for the fun of catching and conveying the fugitive back to punishment. Rather than be captured, the girl trusts the treacherous semblance of a bridge; the stick, rotten at heart, like many a seeming friend who, when the moment of trial comes, proves false, parts beneath her feet, and she is precipitated into the boiling flood. The fragments of the broken stick lay in the water so   926      DOINGS IN MARYAND, naturally that one every moment expects to see them float along; and so perfect were the illusions of the painting that a sensitive lady rushed forward to wring the water from the girl's dripping hair. And the men (generous fel- lows!), regardless of patent-leather and gaiters of the softest texture, ventured to the very verge of the stream to give a helping hand to the noble boy that contended with the foaming current and intrepidly bore his burden to the shore. The effect of a first view of this picture upon individuals was as various as their temperaments. Some clapped their hands, some sank upon their knees, some melted into tears, others stood in speechless, almost breathless, silence, spell- bound to the spot. A crowd was constantly gathered round this master-piece of the artist, great in all his works, but greatest far in this. Upon the countenance of the heroic boy was written so strongly the expression "I'll succeed or die," that spectators, by some mysterious link- ing of the soul with truth, involuntarily turned and looked upon the artist, as if to say, "That boy is the prototype of yourself." By a strange coincidence, we said, this picture was called The Rescue. A poem, bearing the same title, was then being republished, and was again the talk of literary cir- cles. The poem appeared to be the key to the painting, and the painting but the realization of the poem. How could such a coincidence occur? A pen-painter in America writes a poem, and an artist in Italy, without having read one line of it, personates every prominent character, and lends his energies to the work intended to be his master- piece. When separated, the poem and painting seemed fragments, when together, a perfect whole; and yet they had been constructed with oceans rolling between. The poem was shown to Allston; instantly he felt who was the author. There are some things we need not be   OR MATILDA DO UGLAS.       297 told: we feel them. Said Allston to a friend, "I must find the writer of this poem, for I believe it has been written by a woman, and if so, she is the original of my drowning girl." Replied the friend, "The poem was written by a woman, and one well known to the literary world; but that she was a friend of yours I had no idea." The artist was soon a regular visitor at the residence of Miss Douglas. Said he on one occasion, "Mattie, how is it that you have never visited my gallery, when my greatest effort was made in commemoration of our first acquaint- ance?" She replied, "That painting was the reason I never came. I knew I could not view it unmoved, and I did not wish to make an expose of realities which perhaps you preferred should be regarded as simply the offspring of a teeming fancy." "I have no objection to the truth being known," he said; " although I might be censured for presenting myself to the public as the hero of a chivalrous performance, yet my object in painting that picture was not self-laudation. Thoughts of you, Mattie, have haunted me all my life of absence. I loved you because you loved my mother; you seemed the only person except myself that appre- ciated my noble mother as she deserved to be appreciated. True, she was a favorite with all who knew her, but my love asked for her and would be satisfied with nothing short of adoration. You participated with me in my deep devotion; hence you seemed a part of myself, like a sister at first,--and oh, how often I have wished you by my side that-we might speak together of that dear motherl But to return to the subject of the picture," he continued; "you know I took your likeness, before I left home, with the intention of painting it anew when I improved in the   298      DOINGS IN MARYAND, art, and, finally, I determined to paint you in such con- nection that no degraded lodgment should be the recepta- cle of that which represented you. I intended you to grace the scene where taste and refinement dwell, where the smile of intelligent beauty would be lavished upon you, where chivalry would bend upon you his compre- hensive gaze and feel his pulses thrill. All of artistic power that I possessed I threw into that painting, Mattie, but my motive was not a selfish one; and now, as I look back upon the past, I am astonished that I could permit so many years to roll by and seek no communication with one of whom I so often thought, whom I esteemed so much. But my one idea was to become a painter, and upon that single throw I staked my life. I have won, thank God, and now I feel like one just aroused from a trance, just returned from an ideal world back to the real- ities of a life that, by my rapt seclusion, I had wellnigh ignored." Finally a visit to the picture-gallery was arranged. Mattie was to come when no strangers would be there, early in the morning, "ere the tide of fashion rolled its careless car to pleasure and to play." The appointed morning found the artist at his gallery much sooner than usual, waiting to receive his expected visitor, Hle strode impatiently up and down the hall, as if something of uncommon weight pressed upon his spirits and made him restless and uneasy. A carriage stopped before the door, he sprang down the stairs with a single bound and quickly returned bearing a lady upon his arm. Together they stood before the renowned painting, "The Rescue."  The remembrance of what Mattie had suffered and enjoyed, since the occurrence here so strikingly por- trayed, rushed upon her heart with a flood of mingled   OR MATILDA DOUGLAS.        299 memories of joys and sorrows. Bursting into tears, she sank upon her knees before the picture.  The artist kneeled beside her, and, passing his arm around her, pressed her to his bosom, murmuring in her ear, "My own by right of rescue!" CHAPTER     LXII. "Titles of honor add not to his worth Who is an honor to his title." A PRINCELY-HEARTED, public-spirited Grinnell, of New York, gives a reception to the great modern painter. All brother artists, all the literati of the city, are invited to meet and make the acquaintance of the Titian of America. This will be no ordinary occasion. Such a congress of great spirits the world seldom witnesses. Mattie Douglas is a celebrity now, and she too will be there. Professor Waverly has come opportunely to New York on business; he is well known to brothers of the quill, who are happy to obtain for him a card of admission to this unique gath- ering. What a strange meeting, after so many years of separation, will take place to-night I Said Mrs. Grinnell to the ladies in the dressing-room, "Now, girls, I shall expect rare conquests here to-night, or you are not good diplomatists. Allston is a bachelor, remember, and there will be lots of bachelors beside; and then, there-will be that handsome and intelligent million- aire widower from Maryland, Professor Waverly,--a de- cided catch I He is worth a couple of millions or more, and has but one child, a sweet little girl, the image of   300      DOINGS IN MARYAND, himself. Now, if you girls let him slip through your fingers to-night, I shall declare you deserve to be old maids. Mr. Willis introduced him a few evenings since; when he took a sociable tea with us, and asked, in a very pointed manner, if Miss Douglas, the literary favorite of the day, would be here to-night. It seems they are old friends, but have not met for years. Miss Douglas is from Maryland, too, and I want one of the New York girls to carry off the prize. "But," said one of the ladies, laughing, "what is the use of our setting caps when he is already prepossessed, as you say?" "The prepossession may not be reciprocal, though," replied the hostess. "It is reported that Allston is paying marked attention to the talented authoress." "Well, she can't have both; there is some comfort in that thought," said another lady, gayly. And thus in merry mood they passed the time until the hour of recep- tion arrived. The apartments prepared for this occasion are worthy of remark. When the chandeliers were lighted, the mov- able panels thrown back, a perfect fairy-land of elegance and beauty was disclosed to the astonished vision. It were impossible in a pen-picture to do justice to the scene, so we abandon the attempt; and yet, for all the grandeur here displayed, such classic taste prevailed that nothing could be called vulgar, flaunting, or bizarre; as much of nature as could be used for decoration was ac- cepted. The splendid garden and conservatory were bril- liantly illuminated, bands of music, stationed at intervals, added sweet sounds to sweet perfume and gave enchant- ment to the scene. The extensive and well-filled con- servatory was not only lighted but furnished, and an in- vitation extended to all to enter and help themselves to   OR MATILDA DO UGLAS.        301 whatever floral gems they most admired. The floor was spread with rich rugs, lounges and tete-a-tetes were sta- tioned round for those who wished to linger amid the poetry of nature. The throng of arrivals was over, the company had paid their respects to the host and hostess, and offered their congratulations to the distinguished guest of the evening, when, with bustle and importance, Professor Waverly was announced. After presentation to the artist, the professor stood by his side for some time, conversing with him, and ostensibly paying him court; but really to show to ad- vantage his splendid person, and to receive the admiring gaze of the assembled crowd. Hle then sought Mrs. Grin- ;nell, and requested her to present him in form to Miss Douglas. Mattie received him kindly, cordially, but with the same ease and indifference, to all appearance, that she would have received a perfect stranger. He seated him- self by her side, and never, for a moment, left it. They conversed on general topics; he congratulated her on her literary distinction, and attempted to flatter her by assert- ing that she had never received half the applause which her rare genius deserved. Mattie assured him that she was well satisfied with her success. "Fame had come to her unsought and unex- pected," she said; "and, in all candor, she did not think her efforts merited half the commendation they had re- ceived. " The refreshment-rooms were now thrown open, and the guests invited to enter. Waverly escorted Mattie to the tables, and assiduously attended her during the repast. After the pleasures of the palate were sated, the guests dispersed themselves as best suited the fancy of each. Some- entered the brilliantly lighted garden, some ap- proached the music, and the dance began; others sought 26   302      DOINGS IN MARYAND, the rooms appropriated to fashionable games, each one seeking the kind of pleasure that pleased him most. Waverly, with Mattie upon his arm, bent his steps to the conservatory. "I wish," said he, "to cull a bouquet for a lady that is here to-night. Will you assist me, Miss Douglas, in making the selection?" She assented, of course, and they entered the paradise of flowers. No others were there,-they were alone. Seating her upon a lounge, he said, "And now direct me while I cut as you dictate." Mattie designated first one rosebud and then another, this pink and that white flower, this- scarlet and that green branch, this yellow and that purple, and so on luntil the task was nearly completed. "And now," she said, "to crown the whole, give me that white camellia.' "Yes," he replied, "that will be a suitable finish to the chapter of love you have embodied there, and that remark brings me to the subject on which I wish to speak." He seated himself beside her, she resigned the flowers to him; he took them, and then, presenting them back to her, said, "They were intended for you, Miss Douglas, and, with the flowers, permit me to offer the hand that holds them,-my heart is already yours; for I declare to you, upon the honor of a gentleman, that you are the only woman I have ever loved." Mattie did not accept the flowers, and he laid them in her lap, continuing to talk: "The proposal I now make would have been made when I first became acquainted with you, had my circumstances been such as to justify the step. I thought money, as the procurer of worldly comfort, indispensable to happiness; in this I was mistaken. I obtained money adequate to my largest desire, but with it a void existed in my heart which-neither fame nor money could fill. Had I my life   OR MATILDA DOUGLAS.       303 to live again, I would marry the woman of my choice, and labor for her support." Mattie arose from her seat, pale, almost breathless, and said, in a low, husky voice,- "Professor Waverly, let us go hence." "No, no!" he exclaimed, seizing her hand and reseat- ing her, "you must not leave the place until you decide my fate; but first hear me, hear all I have to say. I have a little bud of promise, sweet as the sweetest and purest flower in that collection [pointing to the flowers which now lay in a heap on the floor], and to no woman upon earth would I confide her but yourself. She is an heiress, too, of immense wealth. And what is a vain, weak, ,wealthy woman but a prey to the first adventurer that crosses her path? Had my daughter but your society and guardianship I would be content, even should I be taken from the world. I could ask for her no better counselor, no truer friend, than yourself. Oh, Miss Douglas, accept the precious charge I bring you; the salvation of an im- mortal soul may rest upon your decision!" Mattie again attempted to rise. Said she, "Professor Waverly, you are too late; I cannot listen to you longer; it were dishonorable in me to do so." He pressed her hand to his lips, and, flinging himself upon his knees before her, besought -her not to dash from his heart a lifelong hope, the hope of one day possessing her. "Remember," said he (his meanness was always oozing out), " you are indebted to me for your fame and fortuneI It was I who introduced you to, and gave you prestige in, the literary world. I have been the champion whose pen-weapon was wielded for you with no ordinary strength. Mine has been the ' Hidden Hand' that sustained you, for I have never lost sight of you for one day since we first met, but, like a brother, I have A,   304      DOINGS IN MARYAND, watched over your interests; my eye has followed you continually for good, and surely for this I might ask a little kindness in return. Be a mother, then, to my mother- less child; if you cannot love me, love her, and I am con- tent." Mattie found it was necessary to be explicit. Seating herself again upon the lounge, she requested the man kneeling before her to be seated also, and then said,- "I admit, Professor Waverly, that I owe you a debt of gratitude, for I have always suspected that to your management of my humble efforts I was indebted for the favorable manner in which they were received by the public, and that your able pen encouraged me to perse- vere, and sustained, applauded, and rewarded me when I did so; but, Professor Waverly, your request has come too late I It is out of my power now to grant you the meed of grateful recompense you ask, for I am the betrothed of another, and of one to whom my debt of gratitude is even greater than it is to you, for he saved my life 1" "What!" he exclaimed, " are you engaged to Allston?" "I am." He clasped his hands upon his brow as though a bullet had pierced his brain, and exclaimed, "Great Heaven, what have I lost I Genius wedded to genius, what greater happiness could the gods bestow?" While he thus sat with his hands over his eyes, Mattie noiselessly left the bower. The professor gained the house by a private passage, and, hastily writing a few lines to the hostes9 excusing his abrupt departure, immediately left. / Mrs. Grinnell sought Mattie, and laughingly accused her of banishing the professor. Said she, "When last seen he was in your company, Miss Douglas. I shall hold you responsible for his safety."   OR MATILDA DOUGLAS.        305 Allston, too, seemed to think the affair a curious one, and bantered her about looking so pale and nervous by 'inquiring, "If she had not killed the professor and buried him among the flowers?" She murmured in his ear, "I will explain all when I have an opportunity. Please say no more on the subject now. " The amusements and festivities of the occasion pro- gressed until gray morning streaked the east, and then the guests reluctantly separated to seek their chambers and repose. Mattie, too, sought her chamber, but found no repose. Chords in her heart that had lain paralyzed for years again quivered with an emotion that seemed to indicate returning life. Oh, reader, beware how you touch those notes, whose tones must forever linger on the stringsl Neither were Mattie's the only sleepless eyes that morning. Waverly tossed upon his pillow quite as restlessly as Mattie did upon hers, his brain actively working, scheming, scheming, scheming. "If it be in the power of the strong will to perform what the strong mind dictates, the prize shall yet be mine!" This was his resolve, and ere he left his couch his plan of operation was completed. 26* F-^   306      DOINGS IN MARYAND, CHAPTER    LXIII. DUPLICITY. "I, under fair pretense of friendly ends, And well-placed words of glossy courtesy, Bated with reason not unplausible, Wind me into the easy-hearted man And hug him into snares." FROM the night of the reception given to the artist, Waverly paid him the most assiduous attentions, culti- vated his acquaintance most industriously, was present at the gallery every day, frequently at his lodgings, accom- panied him on his visit to Mattie, and, by this last means, gained familiar entrance to her house and presence. And then, his manner was so genial to Allston, so humble to Mattie; no indication of anger or pique, jealousy or ill feeling, gave the slightest token that a deep and well-con- certed scheme for the possession of one of the parties and the destruction of the other was every day developing before their eyes. On one occasion Allston remarked to Mattie, "Waverly is a clever fellow, but I cannot divine his motive in wishing me to drink so freely; he would buy wine by the hogshead, I believe, if I would drink it." "Oh, William, I hope you do not gratify him?" she exclaimed. "Certainly not, Mattie. You need not look so alarmed; I am not such a novice as-to be seduced in that way; but judging from Waverly's intercourse with myself, I should pronounce him an improper person for the companionship of young men."   OR MATILDA DOUGLAS.        307 Said Mattie, "William, I am afraid Waverly has some motive in his conduct in this respect;- indeed, under the circumstances, his excessive kindness to you is unnatural and suspicious. I have, and for good reasons, a strong distrust of Waverly's honor. I believe him to be unprin- cipled." Allston laughed. "You ladies," he said, "have so many fears that really I think you all require protection. We men never think of half the apprehensions which dis- turb the peace of your more sensitive nerves." Mattie remained intensely silent her thoughts were troubled. Why is it that women instinctively feel danger near, while men laugh to scorn these delicate and intan- gible premonitions? Allston and Waverly were both expert chess players; both were fond of the game, but they played so equally well that it was tedious work when they played together. Said Waverly to Allston, "Let us stake something of real value, to make the game interesting; it is such dull work without an incentive." "Agreed," replied the painter, thinking one of his pictures against a certain sum of money would be the proposal. Said Waverly, with a significant look, "I will stake a hundred thousand dollars against Matilda Douglas." Allston's Southern blood blazed hot into his expressive face; but, trying to conceal his anger, he said, as politely as his feelings would permit, "Waverly, you jest, or I would resent what you propose as an unpardonable insult." "I am not jesting, my dear fellow," replied Waverly, ; f iwith the most perfect sang-froid. "Come, take a common- sense view of the matter; you have impaired your fortune by a foreign residence these many years, and all your property, except the home-farm, is gone. Now, here is a   308      DOINGS IN MARYAND, chance for you to recover it,-a fortune awaiting your ac- ceptance. Resign the field to me,-you know what I mean,-and I will lay half a million at your feet." Allston foamed with rage. Said he, "Waverly, what kind of a scoundrel do you take me for that you ask me to sell the woman whom I have promised to marry, whom I have asked to marry me?" "If she loved you," said Waverly, "I would not ask it. But I have reason to believe that she loves me, and that alters the case, you know." "It is false!" cried Allston, fiercely. "I believe what you say is most infamously false, and you are a conceited, contemptible fellow to make such an assertion." A gleam of deep and sinister meaning passed over Waverly's face and shone in his eye; it said, "Come on, my boy, I am ready for you in any manner you please ;" but his lips said calmly, almost sweetly, "Why, Allston, my poor, deluded fellow, ask Mattie herself; she cannot, and I believe she will not, deny the fact." Allston snatched up his hat and rushed from the house, determined to know the worst at once. "If she loves Waverly, then my life is cursed," he said, in his heat of blood; and on his way to Mattie's house he called at his hotel and got his pistol, and, as he clutched the life- destroyer, he muttered between his clinched teeth, "If she says she loves another than the man she has promised -to marry, I'll blow out ny brains and die at her feet." As the unhappy man rushed along the street, blind with rage and jealousy, he stumbled against everybody he met. Presently a strong, manly arm encircled him and held him fast. Said a well-known voice,-           1 "Allston, where under heaven are you going in such haste, with a pistol in your hand? Why, man, the police will arrest you for carrying weapons openly 1"   OR MATILDA DOUGLAS.        309 "I 'will put it to my heart, then, and save them the trouble of an arrest," said he, scornfully and bitterly. "What!" exclaimed the friend, "shall your high sun go down in blood? Shall your proud fame plunge from its zenith to the darkest abyss? Oh, no, no, that must not be! You are not yourself just now, so you must permit me to decide for you. And come, Allston, in all candor, trust me with your trouble, tell me what is the cause of this fury. If it be necessary I will die for you, but you must not die yet." Allston was touched, his feelings softened, he resigned the pistol to his friend, and, placing his arm in his, said, "Lead where you will, Fred, I will tell you all." The friend led the excited lover to his lodging. Said he "Allston, you were going in the direction of Miss Doug- las's house when I met you. Is there not a woman at the bottom of this affair? Dear help us poor fellows, these women do lead us such a dance 1"  When quietly seated in Fred's chamber, Allston related to him all that had taken place between himself and Waverly. "And is that all?" exclaimed Fred, with brightening face and voice.  "Why, man, I am rejoiced there is no harm done after all; for rest assured there is not one word of truth in the assertion of that conceited fop. If she loves him, why don't she marry him? She refuses him, evi- dently, or why would he wish you to resign the field' to him; why ask you to sell your chance? The contempti- ble sneak I Allston, if you wish it I will fight him, but I shall consider the pistol disgraced that shoots such a fellow," said Fred, laughing. "But seriously, Bill, be guided by me in this matter, and I will direct your course. Join myself and a  party of sportsmen who are going up the Hudson. Remain away from the city for some time, write to Miss Douglas excusing your absence, and desig-   310     DOINGS IN MARYAND, nate the point at which you can receive her letters. Nothing like absence and letters to bring out the facts." Allston was buried in such profound and painful thought that he did not even hear what Fred was saying. At last he spoke: "I remember now to have heard Mattie's opinion of Waverly, and she has cautioned me with regard to him, saying she thought him unprincipled. Would she thus speak of the man she loved? Mattie is a woman of high- toned character. She would not say one thing and think another. I am really ashamed of my precipitancy, Fred, and am truly glad that I did not see Mattie while in that excited condition; she must have despised me." "Well, I have brought you safely this far," said Fred; "now trust me for the rest of the journey, and let us start to-morrow on this hunting expedition. You know we are going hunting for facts now as well as beasts. I warrant you we shall find both." Mattie received a note from her affianced informing her of his departure from the city and requesting her to write to him at a certain point named. She was somewhat sur- prised at his abrupt departure without one word of adieu, but never for a moment dreamed of the whirlwind that had wellnigh swept her from her moorings. A few days after, as she was riding down town in a street-car, the cafstopped opposite a pistol-gallery, and a party of young men from the gallery entered the car. Said one to his friends, "Is not that Waverly a splendid shot? Can't he wing the pigeon beautifully?" Said the friend, "There is some other kind of pigeon he intends to wing; I should not like to be in that fellow's way, for as he surveyed his shot to-day, right through the heart of the figure, he muttered, ' Yes, I'll do it, if it costs me a million 1"'    OR MATILDA  DOUGLAS.      3" The cold sweat burst upon Mattie's brow as this con- versation fell upon her ear. She hastened home and tried by every means in her power to shake from her heart the uneasy feeling. "I see no way," she said, "to shield Allston from the malicious and covert designs of this un- principled wretch but hasten our marriage; and, how- ever indelicate it may appear in me to do so, I will, rather than he shall fall a victim to this assassin at heart. His intention is evident to my mind, and this is the reali- zation of my intangible foreboding; he intends to draw the unsuspecting man into a quarrel, challenge, -and shoot him." Mattie was as prompt in action as just in drawing an inference, and she instantly wrote to Allston, urging his return. She told him " she was unhappy in his absence, and, besides, although he might feel shocked at her want of delicacy in making such a proposition, yet for good reasons, which she would explain to him afterwards, she wished their marriage to take place immediately." After Mattie had written this, to her dignified idea, rather humiliating letter, she leaned her head upon it and wept; then raising her eyes to heaven, she exclaimed, "Here witness, spirit of his sainted mother, that the promise I made to you long years ago is now sacredly kept. When you fed my famishing father I promised that your kindness should be returned to you or yours. The deed is done. I have interposed myself between him and the murderer's bulley.1' "I understand it all," said Allston, as he triumphantly showed Mattie's letter to Fred. "Waverly is impor- tuning her with his attentions; she wishes to get rid of him. I approve of her decision, and will immediately place her beyond his reach.7' Waverly called upon Mattie in Allston's absence, and   OJ      J ad LgL aIVdU U llY AJtIV flA J UXAY aL"n was refused admission. He wrote to her, his letters were returned unopened. She knew nothing of the game of chess at which he wished her staked and lost, as they say a Russian will sometimes gamble away his wife and chil- dren; but the picture of that pistol-gallery, with its figure shot through the heart, was constantly before her mind's eye. Allston came quickly in answer to the summons. Mattie fell upon his neck and wept. "I am so happy," she said, "to see you return in safety." "From what source did you apprehend danger to me, Mattie?" he inquired. "That is a secret at present," she said; " but I will tell you after we are married." "I have a secret to tell you also,"' he said, laughing; "and, when on this day week I call you mine before the world, no happier man that world can boast." )   A .MATILDA DOUGLAS. 313 CHAPTER      LXIV. FAREWELL! "And like some low and mournful spell, To whisper but one word-Farewell!" AND now there is another Mrs. Allston to sit at the head of the family board on the old plantation, to ride in the family carriage that has never been used since the death of the noble woman whose name another noble woman bears,-a fit successor to the first. Mattie owns the ground which contains her mother's grave. No plow- share will ever pass over that spot. Mr. Douglas has been removed and buried by the side of his wife. "In death they shall not be divided," she said; and so Miss Mary Flum's prediction will be verified,the Douglas family will all be buried in the Allston family graveyard. A costly shaft, beautiful as the one which covers Mrs. Allston, has been placed upon the grave of Mr. and Mrs. Douglas. Mattie often visits the sacred inclosure, and kneeling upon the luxuriant grass, gives thanks to God for the great deliverance he wrought for her since the day on which she fainted in that place and lay upon her mother's tomb as insensible as the clay beneath or the marble above. Allston proposes again to visit foreign lands, and his wife is happy to be the companion of his rambles. Now that the child of want has wealth and fame; now that he who once scorned her alliance lays his name and fortune 27   314     DOINGS IN MARYAND, at her feet; now that the husband, child, and fortune of her scornful rival is presented for her acceptance; now that the sword of the chivalric would leap from the scab- bard in defense of one so courted and so renowned; now that she wants nothing for which a reasonable heart could ask, she will devote herself and all her subsequent life to one who had compassion on her helplessness, and protected her when no other protection was near. She says the "kindness sowed for me, and greater yet for mine, met not unthankful ground, but yielded him his own with fair in- crease, and I still glory in it." We say Heaven's blessing be upon her in her noble resolve, may she be as happy as she deserves to be I And Mattie is happy; but the brightest link in memory's chain is her father, and the thought of what she suffered and endured for him spreads an ever- present ray of sunshine upon her heart. May her setting sun be gilded into double brightness by reflection from that great luminary the refulgence -of whose glory fills all heaven,-even the sun of righteousness I A short time after Mattie's return to Maryland a message came from the neighboring depot to the effect that two ladies were there waiting for an opportunity to visit her. Although at a loss to conjecture who could thus unheralded and unexpected seek her out, she dispatched the carriage promptly. Two passengers returned in it, the one a smiling matron, the other a young, beautiful, and graceful girl. "Well, I see you don't know me, nor Molly, either," said the mother. "Oh, yes; I do now," replied Mattie. "Molly has come," continued the mother, " to bring you a wedding present, and it is all of her own work." Display- ing for Mattie's admiration a beautiful blue satin pin- cushion embroidered with white, and slippers for herself   OR MATILDA DOUGLAS.       315 and husband, also a smoking-cap, all richly and elegantly wrought. The young artist, anxious to escape the praise bestowed upon her efforts, glided into the yard to examine the flowers wrought by the hand of Nature. The mother's eye fol- lowed her lovingly, and when out of hearing, said the doting parent, "Is she not a lovely creature, Mrs. Allston? -and it is all your fault, you did it all." Mattie, smiling at the blunder, replied, "She is indeed a charming girl, and I wish I had committed more faults of the same kind." The reader will readily recognize in Molly the babe that was in its mother's arms when she rented the rooms to Mattie, and will also remember the promise the mother exacted of the young teacher to educate her little girl, and "make her a lady with sweet manners like herself." The promise had been kept. All these many years had Mattie paid for the education of this child, and now came the harvest of the seed sown in faith and hope. Like a gra- cious shower had been Mattie's life, refreshing and bene- fiting all that came within its influence. To the rest of our companions, by the way, our farewell is soon spoken. Kind-hearted Mrs. Butterfield still takes delight in making her buttermilk, and glories in the thought that it saved Mrs. Allston's life. Mrs. Plowman listens to the oft-told story, but shakes her head and smiles incredu- lously. As we have seen, the stylish Mrs. Gilt has been gathered to a grave destitute of style, and Belinda has descended to the lowest depths of degradation. Caroline is cheering on her young physician husband with the assurance that she would rather do justice than to live splendidly. The genus Snipe-Slytickle can always be found where systems of education are supported at the public expense;   316      DOINGS IN MARYAND. where weak men are easily befooled and corrupt ones re- quire tools for their unsightly work,-which tools they intend to purchase out of the public treasury. Mr. McGilhooter did achieve the much-coveted superin- tendency, but did not retain it as long as it took him to wriggle himself into it. Like the rectorship, the superin. tendence proved a seat of sand. Professor Waverly says he will never marry again, but devote himself to the education of his daughter. "He in- tends," he says, " to make her a Matilda Douglas." But, alas I such beings are not fashioned by the hands of man. He alone makes them who causes one mountain to tower above its fellow, and the neglected flower to bloom sweetest of all. And now, indulgent reader, to you, too, we must say farewell. These pages were written to wile away the tedious hours passed at the bedside of an invalid parent; if they have amused you they have performed a double duty, for they have also amused me, and the simple moral of my simple story is simply this: WORK AND PRAY. "' .    POPULAR WORKS PUBLISHED BY J. B. LIPPINCOTT & CO., PHLADELPHA. WILL BE S EN7 BY MAIL, POST-PAID, O01 RECEIPT OF PRICE. Forgiven at Last. A Novel. By )eannette R. HADERMANN. I2mo. Fine cloth. $1.75. "A well-told romance. It is of that "The style is animated, and the charac wrder of tales originating with Miss Char- ters are not deficient in individuality."- ,otte Brontd."--V. Y. Even. Post.  Phila. Age. The Old Countess. A Romance. From the Ger- man of EDMUND    HOFER, by the translator of "Over Yonder," "Magdalena," etc. I2mo. Fire cloth. 1x. "A charming story of life in an old volved to compel wonder and suspense, German castle, told in the pleasant Ger- and ends very happily."--The North man manner that attracts attention and American. keeps it throughout."-The Phila. Day. "An interesting story."--The Inquirer. ' The story is not long, is sufficiently in- Bound Down; or, Life and Its Possibilities. A Novel. By ANNA M. FITCH.    I2mo. Fine cloth. $I.50. "It is a remarkable book."--N'. Y.  "The author of this beaok has genius; Even. Mail.             it is written cleverly, with occasional "An interesting domestic story, which glimpses into deep truths ... Dr. Mars- will be perused with pleasure from begin- ton and Mildred are splendid characters." ping to end."--Baltimore Even. Bulletin. -Phila. Presbyterian. Henry Courtland; or, What A Farmer can Do. A Novel. By A. J. CLINE.   I2mo;  Fine cloth. $1.75. "This volume belongs to a class of I valuable.... The whole story hangs well prose fiction unfortunately as rare as it is together."-PhiZa. Press. Rougegorge.       By Harriet Prescott Spofiord. With other Short Stories by ALICE CARY, LUCY IL HOOPER, JANE G. AIUSTIN, A. L WISTER, L C. DAVIS, FRANK LEE BENEDICT, jetc. 8vo I With Frontispiece. Paper cover. 50 cents. "This is a rare collection."-Chicago "The contents are rich, varied and at Even. Yournal..           tractive."-Piltsburg Gazette. "Admirable series of attractive Tales." -Charleston Courier. The Great Empress. An Historical Portrait. By Professor SCHELE DE VERE, of the University of Virginia.   i2mo Extra cloth. $1.75. "This portrait of Agrippina is drawn I almost dramatic in its interest n--N. V. with great distinctness, and the book is Observer.   PUBLICATIONS OF 7. B. LIPPINCOTT & CO. Nora Brady's Vow, and Mona the Vestal. B) MRS. ANNA H. DORSEY. I2mo. Fine cloth. $1.75. "These interesting tales describe Ire- ancient Irish: and'Nora Brady's Vow' land and her people in ancient and modern illustrates the devotion and generosity of times respectively. ' Mona the Vestal' the Irish women who live in our midst to gives an account of the religious, intel- friends and kindred at home."--Phia rectual, political and social status of the Ledger. Helen Erskine. By Mrs. AM. Harrison Robinson. 2zmo. Toned paper. Fine cloth.    1.50. "There is a varied interest well sus- Higher praise we can give it by saying ;ained in this story, and no reader will that the tone is pure and elevated."--Th complain of it as wanting in incident. Agce. The 9uaker Partisans. A Story of the Revolu- tion. By the author of "The Scout"    With Illustrations. I2emo. Extra cloth. $x.5o. Paper cover. 60 cents. "It is a story of stirring incidents turn- some illustrations will still further recom- ing upon the actual movements of the war, mend it to the young people."--V. Y. and is told in an animated style of narra- Times. tive which is very attractive. Its hand- One Poor Girl. The Story of Thousands. By WIRT SIKES.   i2mo. Toned paper.    Extra cloth. $1.5o. "A deep interest attaches to the vol- which appears many an appeal which ume."-St. Louis Republican.      Christian men and women might well "It is a moving story of a beautiful ponder."--Watchman and Reflector. girl's temptation and trial and triumph, in Asspasia.    A   Tale.    By   C. Holland.       im o. Tinted paper. Extra. cloth. $1.25. "It is a very interesting sketch of a life reading, and we commend it to extensive of vicissitudes, trials, triumphs and won- circulation."-St. Louis Democrat. derful experience.... It is well worth The Professor's Wife; or, It Might Have Been. By ANNIE L. MACGREGOR, author of "John Ward's Governess." i2mo. Fine cloth. -I. 75. "The story is admirably related, with- great skill in drawing and individualizing out affectation or pretence, and is very character."--Phila. Press. touching in parts. Miss Macgregor has Only a Girl. A Romance. From the German of Wilhelmine Von Hillern. By MRS. A. L WISTER, translator of "The Old Mam'selle's Secret," etc.    Fourth edition.  X2mo. Fine cloth. $2. "This is a charming work, charmingly moral lesson it teaches, it is equal, if not written, and no one who reads it can lay it superior, to any work of the character that dowt without feeling impressed with the has for years come under our notice."-- superior talent of its gifted author. As a Pittsburg Dispatch. work of fiction it will compare favorably "Timely, forcible and possessing fah in style and interest with the best efforts more than ordinary merits y--PAi of the most gifted writers of the day, while NartA A merican. in t#he p rity Qf its tone, and the sopno                     I   PUBLICATIONS OF 7. B. LIPPINCOTT & CO. True Love. By Lady di Beauclerk, author of "A  Summer and Winter in Norway," etc.      i2mo.  Fine cloth. $I.25. "Is a pleasing little story well told."- "Many of the scenes of her novel are Nf. Y. ndeendent.           drawn with truth and vigor . . . The in- "This pleasantly told love story presents terest is sustained throughout the story." pictures of E..nglish society that will repay -Hearth and Home. thbe reader."--Pittsburg Gazette. Carizno. By the author of "Doctor Antonio," "Lorenzo Benoni," etc. 8vo. Illustrated. Paper cover. 35 cents. "It is beautifully written, and is one of ple and wholesome storycharminglytold. " the best delineations of character that has  --Brooklyn Eagle. been written lately."--Phila. Day.    "Strange and deeply interesting."-Nl. "It is a capital little story .... A sim-  Y. Hearth and Home. Walter Ogzilby. A        ovel. By Mrs. 7. H. Kin- zie, author of "Wau-bun, etc."   Two volumes in one vol. I2mo. "9 pages. Toned paper. Extra cloth. $2. "One of the best American novels we constructed incidents. Even the graduat. have had the pleasure of reading for some ing week at West Point, though a hack. time. The descriptions of scenery are neyed subject, is presented with the charm spirited sketches, bringing places before of freshness as well as reality. This is the reader, and there is nothing strained, a thoroughly good novel." - Philada. sensational or improbable in the cleverly- Press. Askaros Kassis, the Copt.- A Romance of Modern Egypt. By EDWIN DE LEON, late U. S. Consul-General for Egypt, I2mo. Toned paper. Extra cloth. $I.75. "This book, while possessing all the based on miscellaneous facts, which he characteristics of a Romance, is yet a calls 'A Romance of Modern Egypt,' and vivid reproduction of Eastern life and man- in which he vividly depicts the life of ners."--N. Y. Times.         rulers and people."--Chicago Advance. "He has written us this thrilling tale, Beyond the Breakers. A Story of the Present Day. By the Hon. ROBERT DALE OWEN. 8vo. Illustrated. Fine cloth.  $2. "'All readers of taste, culture and sure, and can say for it that which we thought will feel attracted and impressed could say of few novels of to-day-that Dy it. . . . We have, for ourselves, read it we hope some time to read it over again." with deep interest and with genuine plea- --aV. Y. Ind&penidnt. Compensation; or, Always a Future. A Novel. By ANNE M. H. BREWSTER. Second edition. I2mo. Fine cloth. $I.75. "It is an interesting work, and particu- it is too gentle and too delicate."--Phila. larly so to those who are musically in- Iorth A merican. dined, as much useful information may be "The writer exhibits a happy talent for gained from it."-Boston Post.     description, and evinces a rare taste and "We recommend this book to all who genius for music."-Boston Recorder. ae not longing for agony; for such patrons   PUBLICA TIONS OF 7. B. LIPPINCOTT & CO. Advice to a Wife on the Management of her own Health, and on the Treatment of some of the Complaints incidental to Pregnancy, Labor and Suckling; with an Introductory Chapter especially addressed to a Young Wife. By PYE HENRY CHAVASSE, M D. Eighth edition, revised. .6mo. Neatly bound in cloth. $I.5o. "From this advice any woman may  doctor's lore is given in the style of plait gather some precious ideas as to the care modern conversation."-Philata. Ever. of her health. The manual is very popu- Bulletin. lar in England, where it has passed through "Possesses undoubted value for those eight rapid editions, and we know of no to whom it is addressed."-Chicago Jour- similar work where an equal amount of nal. Advice to a Mother on the Management of her Children, and on the Treatment on the moment of some of their more pressing Illnesses and Accidents. By PYE HENRY CHAVASSE, M D. Ninth edition, revised. x6mo. Neatly bound in cloth. $1.50. "For such, and for those who want to and has undergone a careful revision by rear children judiciously, but need proper Sir Charles Locock, the first physician- counsel, the present volume is one of the accoucheur to Queen Victoria. -N. Y most valuable treatises ever published. Even. Post. The new edition contains many new notes, Maternal Management of Infancy. For the use of Parents. By F. H. GETCHELL, M D. I6mo. Cloth. 75 cents "We warmly recommend it for its good "This little work is deserving the care sense, clearness and brevity."- The Phia. ful attention of all entrusted with tl' Press.                management of infants."-The Inquire,. Dictionary of Daily Wants. A          Cyclopeedia em- bracing nearly 1200 pages of Sound Information upon all matters of Practical and Domestic Utility, containing 980 Engravings. One handsome I2mo vol.  Half Roxburgh, $3.75. The "Dictionary of Daily Wants" may channels, into one arrangement and sys- be said to have done for matters of Prac- tem, by which they may be easily foun. tical Utility in Domestic Affairs what the and applied. great naturalist Linnseus did for the Sci- The sale of nearly xooooo copies of thie ence of Botany. It has brought thou- work affords the best evidence of its in sands of useful items, scattered in dis- trinsic value. order through an unlimited number of Dictionary of Useful Knowledge. A Book of Reference upon History, Geography, Science, Statistics, etc., wit' 570 Engravings. A Companion Work to the "Dictionary of Dail Wants."  Two handsome I2mo vols., containing over I500 page. Half Roxburgh, $5. Dictionary of Medical and Surgical Knowledge, and Complete Practical Guide in Health and Diseases, for Families, With 140 Engravings. One handsome x2mo vol. of 755 pages Half Roxburgh, $2.50. The Editor of this volume has brought professional study, to the task of prepaa he experience of more than thirty years ing this work. f' active practice, and overf/rty years of   PUBLIC TIONS OF y. B. LIPPINCOTT & CO. Tricotrin. The Story of a Waif and Stray. By OUIDA, author of "Under Two Flags," &c.     With Portrait of the Author from an Engraving on Steel. I2mo. Cloth, $2. "The story is full of vivacity and of "The book abounds in beautiful senti- thrilling interest." -Pittsburg Gazette. ments, expressed in a concentrated, corn "Tricotrin is a work of absolute power, pact style which cannot fail to be attractive. some truth and deep interest."-- . Y. and will be read with pleasure in every Day Book.               household."-San Francisco Times. Granville de Vigne; or, Held in Bondage. A Tale of the Day.  By OUIDA, author of "Idalia," "Tricotrin," &c 12mo. Cloth, $2. "This is one of the most powerful and century, so prolific in light literature, has spicy works of fiction which the present produced." Strathmore; or, Wrought by His Own Hand. A Novel.  By OUIDA, author of "Granville de Vigne," &c.     l2mo. Cloth, $2. "It is romance of the intense school, Braddon and Mrs. Wood, while its scenes but it is written with more power, fluency and characters are taken from high life." and -brilliancy than the works of Miss -Boston Transcript. Chandos. A Novel. By Ouida, author of "Strath- more," "Idalia," &c.  I2mo.  Cloth, $2. "Those who have read these two last- what exaggerated portraiture of scenes and named brilliant works of fiction (Granville characters, but it is a story of surpassing ie Vigne and Strathmore) will be sure to power and interest."-Pittsburg Evening read Chandos. It is characterized by the Chronice. same gorgeous coloring of style and some- Idalia. A Novel. By Ouida, author of "Strath- more," "Tricotrin," &c.  l2mo.  Cloth, $2. "It is a story of love and hatred, of those whose refined taste enables them to affection and jealousy, of intrigue and de- appreciate and enjoy what is truly beau- votion. ... We think this novel will .-- tiful in literature.-' A bany Evening tain a wide popularity, especially amoLg youraaL Under Two Flags. A Story of the Household and the Desert.  By OUIDA, author of "Tricotrin," "Granville de Vigne," &c. I2mo. Cloth, $2. "No one will be able to resist its fasci- of Ouida.. It is enough of itself to estab- nation who once begins its perusal."- lish her fame as one of the most eloquent Philada. Evening Bulletin.      and graphic writers of fiction now living." "This is probably the most popular work -Chicago Journal of Commerce. Ouida's Novelettes.       First Series, Cecil Castle- maine's Gage. Second Series, Randolph Gordon.      Third Series Beatrice Boville. Each of these volumes contains a selection of "OUIDA'S"Popular Tales and Stories.    x2mo. Cloth, each $1.75 "The many works already in print by of pleasing narratives and adventures alive this versatile authoress have established to the memory of all who are given te her reputation as a novelist, and these romance and fiction."-N. Haven yow. short stories contririte largelv to the stock   PUBLICATIONS OF 7. B. LIPPINCO 'T & CO. The Old Mam'selle's Secret. After the German of E. Marlitt, author of "Gold Elsie," "Countess Gisela," &c. By MRS. A. L WISTER. Sixth edition. x2mo. Cloth, $1.75. "A more charming story, and one which, of ' The Initials,' the dramatic unity of having once commenced, it seemed more Reade, and the graphic power of George difficult to leave, we have not met with for Elliot."-Columbus (O.) Yournal. many a day." -The Round Table.     "Appears to be one of the most interest. "Is one of the most intense, concentrated, ing stories that we have had from Emuope compact novels of the day. .. And the for many a day."-Boston Traveler. work has the minute fidelity of the author  Gold Elsie- From the German of E. Mfarlit, author of the "Old Mam'selle's Secret," "Countess Gisela," &c. By MRs. A. L  WISTER.  Fifth edition. I2mo.  Cloth, $I.75. "A charming book. It absorbs your I   "A charming story charmingly told."- attention from the title-page to the end."--  Baltimore Gazette. The Home Circle.  Countess Gisela. From the German of E. Mar- litt, author of "The   Old Mam'selle's Secret," "Gold Elsie," "Over Yonder," &c     By MRS. A. L. WISTERm    Third Edition, i2mo. Cloth, $I.75. "There is more dramatic power in this of the reader from the outset"--Pitsburg than in any of the stories by the same Gazette. author that we have read,"--^.0. Times. "The best work by this author.-- "It is a story that arouses the interest Philada. Telegrapk. Over Yonder. From the German of E. Marlitt, author of "Countess Gisela," "Gold Elsie," &c. Third edition. With a full-page Illustration. 8vo. Paper cover, 3o cts. "'Over Yonder' is a charming novel- this author will find in it a pleasant m- ette. The admirers of 'Old Mam'selle's  troduction to the works of a gifted writer." Secret' will give it a glad reception, while  -Daily Sentinel. those who are ignorant of the merits of Three Thousand Miles through the Rocky AMoun- tains. By A. K. MCCLURE. Illustrated.    i2mo. Tinted paper Extra cloth, $2. "'Those wishing to post themselves on agreeable and charming style."-Bradford the subject of that magnificent and ex- Reporter. traordinary Rocky Mountain dominion   "The letters contain many incidents of should read the Colonel's book," -N ew Indian life and adventures of travel which ypok Times.              impart novel charms to themr."-Chicagr "The work makes one of the most satis- Evening Journa. factory itineraries that has been given to "The book is full of usefiul information.' us from this region, and must be read -New York Indelendent. with both pleasure and profit."-Philada. "Let him who would have some propel North A msrican.           conception of the limitless material rich- "We have never seen a book of Western ness of the Rocky Mountain region, read travels which so thoroughly and completely this bock."-Charleston (S. C.) Courier satisfied us as this. nor one written in such   PUBLICA TIONS OF . B. LIPPINCOTT 6' CO. Bulwer's Novels.       Globe  Edition.    Complete  in twenty-two volumes. With Frontispiece to each volume. Beau- tifully printed on fine tinted paper. i6mo. Extra cloth, $33, extra cloth gilt top, $38.50o; half calf, neat, $55; half Turkey, gilt top, $66; half calf, gilt extra, $66. Each novel sold separately. as below, in extra cloth, at $1.50 per volume. The Caxtons ............ i vol. Zanoni .................. vol. My Novel   ..............2 vols. Pelham ................. vol. What will He Do with It?..2 vols. The Disowned ...........I vol. Devereux............... I vol.  Paul Clifford .............. vol. Last Days of Pompeii.. .. vol.  Ernest Maltravers ........ vol. Leila, Calderon and Pilgrims. v. Godolphin....... ........ vol. Rienzi.....        vol. .....Alice................... vol. The Last of the Barons.. i vol.  Night and Morning....... vol. Harold ................. vol.  Lucretia ................ I vol. Eugene Aram ........... vol.   A Strange Story ......... vol. "The Globe edition of Bulwer is very "The Globe edition of Bulwer furnishes neat and satisfactory-more satisfactory a model well worthy of imitation."- than any other issued in, this country."- Philada. Age. Philada. North A merican.      "As to execution and price, there is no "The Globe edition is remarkable for a better edition in the market."--Chicago judicious combination of cheapness, legi- Evening yourmal. bility and beauty."-Charleston Courier. "We congratulate this well-known Phi- "We have repeatedly borne witness to ladelphia publishing house upon furnish- 'he pre-eminence of the Globe over all ing so complete, so legible, so compact other editions, in respect to cheapness, and so beautiful an edition of the writings neatness and convenience of size."-Cin- of this breat novelist. The America i cinnati Gazette.,          book-buymg and book-reading public wi-; "The clear-cut type, delicately-tinted not fail to place this fine edition upon their paper and tasty binding of this Globe edi- library shelves. It is the best cheap edition tion of Bulwer's works cannot be awarded of Bulwer that we have ever seen. It is too much praise."--Rural New Yorker. offered at the low price of $1.50 per volume "We repeat what we have so often be- at which price the purchaser gets the besi fore stated-that the Globe edition is the part of the bargain."--Providence Even- best ever issued on this side of the Atlan- ing Press. tic."--VNew Orleans Times. Readers Novels.     Illustrated Standard Edition of Charles Reade's Novels.  Complete in ten vols.  12mo.  With Engraved Frontispiece and Vignette Title to each. HandsomeD bound in extra cloth. Price, $15 per set. Extra cloth, gilt top $I7 per set. Sold separately, in extra cloth, as follows: Hard Cash..............  $x.75 The Cloister and the Hearth$L.75 Love me Little Love me      Griffith Gaunt ............ 1.50 Long .................  .50 Peg Woffington .......... 1.25 Never too Late to Mend.. 1x75  Christie Johnstone....... 1.25 White Lies.............. 1.50  The Course of True Love Foul Play ..............  .5o  Never did Run Slmooth.  .zi   PUBLICATIONS OF 7. B. LIPPINCOTT T            CO. Agnes Wentworth.         A Novel. By E. Foxton, author of "Herman," and "Sir Pavcn and St. Pavon"       xzmo, Tinted paper. Extra cloth, $i.50. "This is a very interesting and well-told age of most of the noveP issuing from the story. There is a naturalness in the group- press. "-Pittsburg Gazette. ing of the characters, and a clearness of "A novel which has the merit of being definition, which make the story pleasant written in graceful and clear style, while a d fascinating. Phases of life are also it tells an interesting story."-The Inde presented in terse and vigorous words. ... fennt. It is high-toned and much above the aver-  Siena. A Poem. By A. C. Swinburne. [Repub- lished from Lipiincot's Magazine.]   With Notes.   i6mo.  Tinted paper. Paper covers, 25 cts. "Is polished with great care, and is by "One of the most elaborate as well as far the best composition we can recall from the most unexceptionable of his produc- Swinburne's pen, in more than one of its tions.'"-N. Y. Evening Post. effects."-Philaa.. North Am rerican. Recollections of Persons and Places in the West. By H. M. BRACKENRIDGE, a native of the West; Traveler, Author Jurist. New edition, enlarged. I2mo. Toned paper. Fine cloth, $2. "A very pleasant book it is, describing, ingly full of interesting facts and anec- in an autobiographical form, what was dotes respecting a period of Western his- 'The West' of this country half a century tory, which, when the rapid growth of the ago."-Philada. Press.         country is considered, may almost be called "The writer of these 'Recollections' Pre-Adamite."-Boston Evening Tran. was born in 1786, and his book is accord- script. Infelicia. A Volume of Poems. By Adah Isaacs MENKEN. I6mo. Toned paper. Neat cloth, $i Paper cover, 75 cts.  With  Portrait of Author, and Letter of Mr. Charles Dickens, from  a Steel Engraving.   Fine cloth, beveled boards, gilt top, $1.50. "Some of the poems are forcible, others with the living author's form, and it serves are graceful and tender, but all are per- to drape the unhappy life with the mantle vaded by a spirit of sadness."--Washing- of a proper human charity. For herein ton Evening Star.           are visible the vague reachings after and "The volume is interesting, as reveal- reminiscences of higher things."-Ci- ing a something that lay beyond 4he vul- cinnati Evening Chronicke. gar eyes that took the liberty of license Dallas Galbraith. A Novel. By Mrs. R. Hard- ING DAVIS, author of "Waiting     for the Verdict," "Margaret Howth," "Life in the Iron Mills," &c.   8vo.  Fine cloth, $2. "One of the best novels ever written for equal or superior to any previous achieve an American magazine."-Philada AMorn- ment."-Philada. Evening Bulletin. 9iu Post.                "We therefore seize the opportunity to 'The story is most happily written in say that this is a story of unusual power, all respects."- The North A merican.  opening so as to awaken interest. and "As a specimen of her wonderful in- maintaining the interest to the end."-- tensity and passionate sympa llies, this Yh'e Natizonal Bartist. sustained and wholly noble -romance is      
         
       
   
