
    ----CITATION----
        Mortimer, C. B., (b. 1807). Marrying By Lot .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC7295
    ----FULL TEXT----
         
       
          
             
             
               MARRYING BY LOT. 
               A Tale OF THE PRIMITIVE MORAVIANS. 
             
            BY CHARLOTTE B. MORTIMER, AUTHOR OF "MORTON MONTAGUE;" "BETHLEHEM AND BETHLEHEM SCHOOL." 
            
               NEW YORK: 
               G. P. PUTNAM & SON, PUBLISHERS, 661 BROADWAY.
             
            1868. 
             
            Entered according to Act of Congress, in the year 1868, by G. P. PUTNAM & SON, In the Clerk's Office of the District Court of the United States for the Southern District of New York. 
            
               THE NEW YORK PRINTING COMPANY, 
               81, 83, and 85 Centre Street, NEW YORK.
             
          
          
             
            CONTENTS. 
             
               PREFATORY NOTICE. 5
                
               PREFACE. 7
                
               INTRODUCTORY.-Elsie Ashley and the Stranger Families. 13
                
               CHAPTER I.-The Moravian Maidens. 51
                
               CHAPTER II.-The Tracy family and Elsie. 61
                
               CHAPTER III.-Lizzie Brunner. 69
                
               CHAPTER IV.-Mother Neisser and Ellinor Waldemar. 76
                
               CHAPTER V.-The Baptism of little Ellinor. 85
                
               CHAPTER VI.-Mother Neisser's sickness. 94
                
               CHAPTER VII.-Elsie and Rosalie Steinberg. 99
                
               CHAPTER VIII.-Mother Neisser's anxieties about Benigna. 107
                
               CHAPTER IX.-Interesting conversation between Elsie and Rosalie. 114
                
               CHAPTER X.-Lizzie Brunner, Sister Winny and Moravian hymns. 121
                
               CHAPTER XI.-Benigna's troubles and the departure of the Tracy family. 131
                
               CHAPTER XII.-Elsie Ashley's distress. 138
                
               CHAPTER XIII.-Revolutionary War and the Sisterhood. 145
                
               CHAPTER XIV.-The Officer's Love-letter. 154
                
               CHAPTER XV.-Lieutenant Morris and Wilhelmina Leitner. 166
                
               CHAPTER XVI.-Conversation on "Marrying by Lot." 173
                
               CHAPTER XVII.-The Drawers and the Drawn. 181
                
               CHAPTER XVIII.-The Marriages. 187
                
               CHAPTER XIX.-Eugene Moehring and Louisa Bender. 192
                
               CHAPTER XX.-Father and Mother Neisser. 198
                
               CHAPTER XXI.-The Single Sisters' Festival. 203
                
               CHAPTER XXII.-Benigna and Elsie join the Church. 210
                
               CHAPTER XXIII.-The Missionary Family. 216
                
               CHAPTER XXIV.-Edward Walton and Elsie Ashley.224
                
               CHAPTER XXV.-Father Neisser's death. 229
                
               CHAPTER XXVI.-Massacre of the Christian Indians. 234
                
               CHAPTER XXVII.-Benigna's sickness. 238
                
               CHAPTER XXVIII.-Mother Neisser's death. 244
                
               CHAPTER XXIX.-Bishop Von Watterville. 252
                
                
               CHAPTER XXX.-Uncle John and the strong box. 258
                
               CHAPTER XXXI.-Return of the Tracy family. 263
                
               CHAPTER XXXII.-Benigna Waldemar. 269
                
               CHAPTER XXXIII.-Emily's Baptism. 274
                
               CHAPTER XXXIV.-Bishop Steinberg and Frederick Tracy. 280
                
               CHAPTER XXXV.-Emily's sickness. 285
                
               CHAPTER XXXVI.-Her death. 290
                
               CHAPTER XXXVII.-The funeral of Emily. 295
                
               CHAPTER XXXVIII.-Fredericks love. 301
                
               CHAPTER XXXIX.-Bishop Steinberg and Benigna. 311
                
               CHAPTER XL.-Benigna and Frederick. 319
                
               CHAPTER XLI.-Bishop Steinberg and Doctor Tracy. 327
                
               CHAPTER XLII.-Interesting conversation. 331
                
               CHAPTER XLIII.-The Conference meeting and Benigna's decision. 342
                
               CHAPTER XLIV.-The Orphan's prayer, and the patting. 348
                
               CHAPTER XLV.-Uncle John. 354
                
               CHAPTER XLVI.-Sister Rosalie's marriage. 360
                
               CHAPTER XLVII.-Elsie Walton. 365
                
               CHAPTER XLVIII.-Brother Lieber. 373
                
               CHAPTER XLIX.-Conversation between the Sister-friends. 380
                
               CHAPTER L.-Brother Von Blankenstein. 384
                
               CHAPTER LI.-Little Grace and her mother. 390
                
               CHAPTER LII.-The marriages and the wedding feast. 396
                
             
          
          
             
            PREFATORY NOTE. 
            THE very estimable lady, whose name appears on the title-page of this volume, was called away to her rest not long after it was written, and before its passage through the press. It is with a painful sense of the loss which has come upon a large circle of friends and fellow-laborers in a good cause that, in compliance with the express wish of her only and surviving sister, I undertake the office of commending the present work to the notice and consideration of the public, and bespeaking for it the attention which it so well deserves. 
            Miss Mortimer was a Christian lady of excellent culture, refined taste, and high-toned principle, and was also possessed of no mean skill in the use of the pen. This has been shown by her several and varied contributions to literature in former years. The volume now before the reader will, in my judgment, fully confirm and establish the good opinion which the public have been led to form of her productions, and will reward the attentive perusal of all into whose hands it may fall. 
            
               J. A. SPENCER, S. T. D. 
               NEW YORK, May, 1868.
             
          
          
             
             
            PREFACE. 
            "WHAT! Marrying by Lot?" "How strange!" "How was it done?" "Do tell us all about it!" Such and numerous other inquiries and remarks of similar import, having been frequently and urgently made to me relative to this most peculiar custom of the Primitive Moravians, originated the present volume, where will be found in detail ample illustrations of this extraordinary mode of settling the matrimonial destinies of the whole of a Christian denomination. And it is in compliance with oft-renewed promises upon the subject that this relic of a bygone age of an interesting people is here presented to the public, not only for the purpose of satisfying the curiosity of the reader, but to afford certain and correct information of an entertaining and instructive fact in ecclesiastical history. 
            Yet ere I enter upon my task, to prevent a repetition of the misapprehensions, and other disagreeables attending my publication of "Bethlehem and Bethlehem School," or indeed, the exhibition of any unkind expression of feeling in consequence from the Moravians themselves, and, in short, to do all in my power consistent with the circumstances of the case, to conciliate them upon the subject, I shall say a few words to them in reference thereto, especially to those of the Society who allowed themselves to become so unnecessarily excited about the contents of that little work. I desire them to believe I had no unfriendly motive whatever, much less intention of offending any of their number, when penning those sketches; so neither have I in writing again of them. Hence it was altogether a needless waste of sensibility on their part, which I trust ere this, upon calm consideration, their better natures have enabled them to perceive, and that they will judge this work more favorably than its unfortunate predecessor. 
            But, in order to do this effectually, they should remember the important fact of the great changes which have occurred in their Church since its renewal in Germany, and more particularly within the last half century-changes so metamorphosing, at least the American branch of it, that the present members of their communion, who generally are not familiar with the peculiar features of Primitive Moravianism, can scarcely be expected to be able easily to recognize a faithful and graphically drawn portrait of the ancient worthies of their people. And because we do not see ourselves as others see us, it would be no marvel if they cannot even trace any other resemblance to the venerable originals than a caricatured likeness, and pronounce them, as they did those described in that little book, altogether as being nothing more than burlesqued representations. That such, however, is not the case can easily be proved by visiting some of the Moravian Settlements in Germany, where, according to information recently obtained, I learned that the Society still maintain to a great extent the rules, regulations, and practices established by their fathers in primitive times, and among whom, doubtless, counterparts of the individuals I have described, without difficulty, could be found. 
            I would say further to the Moravians, I wish it to be distinctly understood by them, I am not writing at all of their Church as it is now constituted, but that this work is, as it purports to be, descriptive of an altogether anterior period of its history, an explanation of one of the peculiarities arities which so strongly stamped it a century ago; containing facts of a people whose Christian philanthropy, godly zeal, thorough devotion to the service of God, holy faith and trusting confidence in Him, fervent piety, self-denial, and heroic self-devotion in the cause of their Divine Master, have been unequaled, and scarcely found a parallel since the days of the Apostles. Such, I believe, were the Primitive Moravians-a denomination of Christians whom, taught from my cradle to reverence, I have ever regarded, with unqualified, respectful admiration; nor could I desire to write aught else but what would command corresponding emotional sentiments in the hearts of all their fellow-Christians who may read this simple record of characteristics, which so prominently distinguished them from the rest of Christendom. 
            Besides, I can assure the Moravians, if for no other reason than being the daughter of one of the most respected and distinguished of their clergymen, who spent his whole manhood in endeavoring by every effort in his power to advance both their spiritual and temporal welfare-and by his blameless-aye, holy life, and consistent piety, was such an honor to their Society, and shed so great a lustre upon the Moravian character, as to produce an interest in their behalf among Christians of every denomination, unfelt and unrealized before-if for no other reason than this, I say, I would not, if I could, willingly, purposely write a single word disparagingly either of the Church or any of its members. 
            And to the readers of this work generally, I would say, that in penning these memorabilia of these interesting Christians I am laboring under considerable and embarrassing disadvantages, arising from several unfortunate circumstances which render the undertaking an unusually delicate one. For, in addition to my birthright in the Society, and my leaving it, I am writing about a people who, I am told, wish to reserve to themselves the exclusive privilege of being their own historiographers in regard to obsolete customs and usages of their Church, now so unpopular among them that they are seldom spoken of, and are rapidly passing into oblivion; in regard also to peculiarities of their primitive times, which their present Society looks upon with morbid sensitiveness, more especially the one described in this volume, containing facts in the domestic history of this by-gone age of their Church, of which the younger portion of their people know so little that these illustrations of mine, descriptive of some of the venerable, antique specimens of Primitive Moravianism, will probably be as new to them as to the general reader. 
            All these circumstances combined, the discerning public can easily perceive, place me in a singular and trying position with the Society in regard to this book. I constantly realized this while preparing it for the press-and in consequence was exceedingly particular when writing it, and careful to give nothing as verities but what I received from credible sources. And sympathizing with their prejudices and nervous sensibility upon the subject, I have endeavored so to arrange my narration that not the most sensitive of the living representatives of the present Moravian Church, nor any of their primitive progenitors, could find any reasonable cause of offence in a single paragraph within its pages. 
            In conclusion, I would observe of the facts given, they were all furnished me by their own people, and by quite a number of them; that some were again and again related by different individuals, and are the gathering of many years; besides, I consulted letters and other written papers, and, where I could, gleaned information from the printed records of the Society. In short, in every way in my power, I strove to obtain the proper materials for this work. It was my earnest wish, in connection with this narration, to give nothing but a simple statement of actual occurrences, as well as to fit them to the persons to whom they really originally belonged. This plan, however, I did not find practicable, and in consequence was obliged to alter it. Instead, I have to acknowledge of the various persons, mentioned in my story, that all are not real characters. Neither did the facts stated all happen to the same Sisterhood or Settlement, nor at the time specified-this arrangement is altogether my own. I am thus explicit, to avoid any unpleasant misunderstanding upon the subject. 
            The imagination and the pen could find ample materials to draw upon, to elucidate this peculiar custom of the Primitive Moravians; and many a story of thrilling interest could doubtless be written thereon-no marvel, therefore, if a thin veil of fiction has been woven in this tale to invest its characters with the romantic interest inspired by their fervent piety and self-devotion. That I have done this I candidly admit; but while a part of the story is apocryphal, most of it is perfectly authentic, and founded upon actual occurrences. 
            
               C. B. MORTIMER.
             
          
       
      
         
            Marrying by lot 
             
                
                
               INTRODUCTORY. 
                
                  I. ELSIE ASHLEY. 
                  THE fortune of war had brought this young lady to the Settlement of my story. She was a fair young girl of prepossessing manners and appearance, an orphan, of English parentage; and the circumstances connected with her bereavement, together with her present sojourn among the Moravians, are so interesting that I cannot forbear briefly narrating them, together with a portion of her subsequent history, although she belonged not to the same fold as her associate maidens of the Moravian Sisterhood. 
                  Elsie Ashley was the daughter of Colonel Ashley, an officer of considerable merit in the British service. Her mother was a very amiable and pious lady, whose example exercised such a favorable influence upon her husband that he also became a decided Christian, and, in every sense of the word, a truly estimable man. They had several children, but none survived their infancy save their eldest born and only daughter. On Elsie, therefore, they lavished all the rich store of their parental affection and watchful care. 
                  She inherited her father's disposition, his thoughtfulness, strong susceptibilities, and natural firmness of character, but in appearance she strikingly resembled her beautiful mother. Very amiable and affectionate withal, she was a general favorite; but by her parents regarded as the bright vision of their hopes-they almost idolized her. 
                   
                  Attentively did they mark the development of her pure mind, and sought to strengthen it in the most effectual manner. They knew it was out of their power to shield her from the trials and afflictions which encompass mortality; but they wisely endeavored to fit her to meet them with proper fortitude and resignation. They instilled upon her young mind lessons of heavenly wisdom. Many were the pious sentiments thus inculcated, not one of which failed to make a lasting impression upon their daughter, although it must have been difficult for one so caressed, and in the springtime of a joyous existence, to realize that the pleasures of earth perish like the flowers, and that a pall could be thrown upon her happiness. But with confiding love, she believed all they told her, and so profited by their sage teachings that her mind was prematurely matured, and at sixteen all the peculiar traits of her character were fully developed. 
                  Elsie was just entering on this fascinating era of a woman's existence, when the counsels of a sensible and judicious mother are the most important and valuable to her daughter. When the health of that parent became so delicate as to arouse the fears of her attached family, Colonel Ashley in particular became alarmed, and trembled with anxiety over the precious life of this treasure of his heart. Yet he felt not for himself as much as for their darling child, to whom the loss of such a mother at her tender age would be irreparable. 
                  Soon after this Colonel Ashley received orders, officially, to proceed with his regiment to the north of Ireland, to assist in quelling the disturbances with which that unhappy country was then agitated. 
                  For several years antecedent the professional services of Colonel Ashley had not been required. He had spent this interval of quiet in the bosom of his own home in England, in the enjoyment of the, domestic circle. The scene was now to be changed, and the prospect of separation from his family caused much sorrow. Mrs. Ashley plead that she and Elsie might accompany him as far as Dublin, to be as near as possible to him. Her husband readily yielded to a request which his own heart had also suggested; besides, he hoped the sail across the Channel, with the change, would prove beneficial to her. Accordingly he hired out their snug cottage and furniture, and then departed, taking with them a faithful domestic who had lived in their family a number of years. 
                  Arrived at Dublin, Colonel Ashley had scarcely time to procure them comfortable lodgings ere he was obliged to hasten to his post of duty, which happened to be in the immediate neighborhood of Gracehill, the principal Moravian Settlement in Ireland. 
                  I am speaking of the Insurrection of the Hearts of Steel, as it was called. This occurred, I think, between the years 1770 and 1772. A party of the rebels were unfriendly to the pious efforts of the United Brethren established at Gracehill. They made an attack upon this Settlement for the avowed purpose of destroying it. The reason they gave for this outrage was that the Moravians had taken the land upon which Gracehill was built from its former possessors, and they were determined to lay it waste with fire and sword, in order to drive them away. This was nothing but pretence, however, for they must have known that they had obtained a legal right to it. The outlaws fired in the windows of one of their largest houses, when they wounded several of the inhabitants, and did other damage in the place. 
                  Immediately upon Colonel Ashley's arrival, several of the principal persons of the town waited upon him, to put themselves and their people under his protection. They were courteously received, and he promised to befriend them all in his power as circumstances required; and soon his services were actively employed in their behalf. He and his corps of bravo men valiantly defended the place, and they succeeded in preventing present destruction; but it was not until Lord O'Neil, from whom was purchased the perpetual lease on which Gracehill was built, had represented the matter to Parliament, that effective measures were taken by Government for restoring tranquillity to the country. 
                  In the mean while several serious skirmishes had occurred between the king's forces and the rebels, in one of which Colonel Ashley received a severe thrust from a bayonet. At his request, he was taken to Gracehill. Here his wound was directly dressed, and a nurse provided who faithfully attended to him. It was a frightful-looking gash, but not at first considered dangerous. A violent inflammatory fever, however, set in, and, in consequence, soon after his recovery became doubtful. 
                  Information immediately had been sent to his family to apprise them of his situation; but they were, at the same time, advised not to venture to come to him, as it would be unsafe for them to travel thither. 
                  More than a fortnight had passed since this sad event happened. Colonel Ashley still lived, though evidently declining. It was the dusk of the evening, when a covered cart stopped at the inn-yard in Gracehill. Almost directly afterwards, a young female, pale and excessively agitated, came out of it and hastily entered the house. She betrayed the most anxious expression of countenance, while her whole frame trembled with emotion, as in hurried and almost incoherent words she made some inquiries. Then bursting into a flood of tears, she sank into a seat, clasped her hands tightly together, and raising her eye upward, fervently ejaculated a prayer of thanksgiving that her beloved father still survived. This scarcely done, she followed an attendant into the room of the dying officer. 
                  Affecting, indeed, was the meeting between that parent and his only child, and it would be difficult to determine which feeling predominated in the hearts of each, joy or sorrow. Methinks it must have been the former, it being an unlooked-for happiness to both that they had met again on earth. They were thankful for this unexpected privilege, and rejoiced; however, so much of sadness mixed with regret accompanied this gratitude, that they appeared to be truly unhappy. No marvel at it, either, for the wife and mother was not there to mingle her sympathies with theirs, and with her gentle voice and hands to administer to the comfort of the dear invalid. 
                  From the moment Mrs. Ashley heard the sad news of her husband's misfortune, she was persuaded in her mind that he would never recover from it. Then, could she have followed the promptings of strong impulse, she would immediately have hastened to him; but she directly perceived, from her increasing feebleness, her inability to undertake the journey. Then her affectionate heart, in its yearnings of sympathy for this fondest object of her regard, and now of so much tender anxiety and solicitude, earnestly desired to do whatever she could under the circumstances best calculated to contribute to his comfort and happiness. And realizing what a blessing Elsie would be to her father if with him, she determined to use every effort in her power to enable her to send her to the beloved sufferer as quickly as possible. She thought not then of her own fragile health, and how essential to her very existence, especially at this season of gloom and despondency, was the companionship of their beloved child; but, true to the unselfish spirit of the most devoted affection, she willingly yielded up this cherished gratification, and immediately set about making arrangements to accomplish her purpose. 
                  It was a bold and perilous undertaking for a young, inexperienced, and attractive girl like Elsie to travel thus almost unprotected through a country abounding with lawless rioters. Mrs. Ashley was sensible of this, yet she wavered not in her intention. Pious affection prompted every preparation, which she speedily made under the influence of strong agitation. She hastily devised a plan, which she communicated to Nancy, by whose instrumentality, on the same day, she found a trustworthy man who promised early on the ensuing morning to be ready to take charge of the youthful Elsie, and convey her with all possible speed to her father. Mrs. Ashley, on his return, promised handsomely to remunerate him for his trouble, on presenting certain evidence of his having fully discharged his trust. 
                  After he left, Elsie was informed of the arrangement. At first she hesitated; and well she might, for she had never before been separated from her mother, and, like an unfledged bird, was fearful of trusting herself abroad, alone, and unprotected. Besides, the manner of travel proposed was so disagreeable, that no wonder if her nature recoiled from it. But Elsie Ashley possessed a mind, character, and disposition of no ordinary stamp. And, remarkably docile and obedient to her parents, she had been accustomed to make their wishes her rule of conduct; she therefore yielded at once to her mother's desire, and signified her willing acquiescence to proceed on her pilgrimage of filial love in any way she should consider most fit or proper. She was to be taken in a covered cart, herself nearly enveloped in hay, as the safest mode for a young, lonely female like her to travel. At the appointed hour on the following morning the timid girl, prepared to go forth on her novel journey, threw herself into the arms of her mother, and wept her sad adieu. 
                  "Take to your father, my beloved child," sobbed Mrs. Ashley, "your mother's undying love; and tell him that, although not permitted to see him again on earth, his happy spirit I hope first to greet in our eternal home in heaven, where I humbly trust, through Divine mercy, to meet him to part no more." 
                  Elsie started, and, looking at the pale, wan countenance of her mother, exclaimed: 
                  "And are you, too, to die, and leave your poor Elsie! Oh, then, send me not away, I entreat you;" and with a wild shriek of bitter anguish and fearful trembling she clung closely to her. 
                  "Weep not thus, my daughter; your tears quite overcome me. God only knows, my darling, the trials and afflictions which are meted out for your portion. But sadden not this bitter moment by the anticipation of this being our final leave-taking. Cheer up, my precious one; the Lord will not, I trust, for your dear sake as well as mine, take me hence while you are absent; indeed, I am assured of my prayers in this respect being heard, and that you, my Elsie, will be alike the ministering spirit to bless the last moments of both of your parents. And now farewell, my dear child. I hope God will forever bless you, my cherished treasure; and under the shadow of the Almighty's wings may you always rest." 
                  A long and tender embrace followed; the mother pressing her daughter affectionately, as if it were all but death to part with her, and both weeping as if their hearts would break. 
                  Nancy stood by powerfully affected, and after reiterating an oft-repeated promise of entire devotion to her mistress during her absence, Elsie Ashley stepped into the humble vehicle provided for her, and, at the behest of one almost expiring parent, went to attend upon and console the last moments of the other. 
                  "My precious father shall not die, if devoted, watchful love can save him," was the resolve of this affectionate girl as she took her place beside his sick-bed. She fondly imagined that by unwearied constant attention she could stay the hand of the destroyer. "Yes," said she, "I will try to cheat death of his intended victim, and then, perhaps, my dear mother may recover. "She smiled at this delightful fancy sketch, as she thought of the bliss of the realization of this bright vision of happiness. In such pleasing anticipations she beguiled many an otherwise sad hour, and continued to indulge in them, even when it became evident to every one else that Colonel Ashley was certainly dying. 
                  When that dream of hope dispelled, alas! how poignant was the agony of that child of sorrow. None but daughters who have drunk the same cup of sorrow-been visited with similar afflictions-with alike kindred circumstances in being deprived forever of the guardian and guide of their youth-their best protector and ablest friend-the only strong arm of manhood they had to lean upon, and he a fond, judicious, and devoted father-can realize the trials of this bereavement, and yield her their heartfelt sympathy. 
                  For nearly a week after the arrival of Elsie, Colonel Ashley lingered upon the threshold of eternity-on the borders of the invisible world. A day or two previous to his departure he sent for one of the clergymen of the place, who administered the sacrament to him and his daughter. 
                  Never before had Elsie partaken of this Ordinance. She therefore made her first communion in the chamber of her dying parent. As she knelt by the bedside to receive the sacred emblems blems of her Saviour's love, her young heart became powerfully impressed with the deceitfulness of the fairest promises of life, and the uncertain tenure by which we hold our most cherished and valued earthly enjoyments. Her pent-up feelings rendered her perfectly miserable, and as soon as possible after she sought retirement, when, calling upon God, she fervently implored his help and assistance, with the comfort which He alone could bestow, earnestly entreating that he would enable her to submit with resignation to all the dispensations of his providence, whether joyous or grievous. She cast the anchor of her hopes in heaven, and felt that her prayer was heard. And when the awful and dreaded moment arrived which rendered her fatherless, it enabled her with pious hope and confiding faith to raise her eyes upward and feel, "I have a father still, a Heavenly Father, who will never leave me or forsake me." 
                  Perceiving his end approaching, after many tender messages to his beloved wife, and much affectionate and valuable counsel to Elsie, Colonel Ashley requested the presence of several of the good people of the place, who had evinced toward him much sympathy and kindness. To their protection and care he commended his afflicted daughter until she could be restored to her anxiously expecting mother. Surrounded by these kind friends, with his hands clasped in those of his child, he calmly and peacefully expired. 
                  Agreeably to his request, he was interred in the quiet Moravian cemetery at Gracehill. He had desired that his obsequies should be performed by the good minister who had so faithfully visited him in his illness, and the whole to be conducted in the most simple and unostentatious manner, with the peculiarly beautiful and solemn services and rites of the community. But not so was he buried. A vast concourse of military in the neighborhood, among whom was the regiment he had commanded, assembled, and his funeral was marked with all the pomp and pageantry usually observed toward an officer of his high rank. 
                  The sorrow-stricken girl spent the greater part of the next morning beside the grave of her beloved father. In the afternoon noon she started for Dublin, as providentially an excellent opportunity offered, which she gladly embraced. But with indescribable emotions she bade adieu to a place and people, that through sorrow had become endeared forever to her affectionate remembrance. In due time she was again clasped in her mother's arms. 
                  Elsie found her sadly altered. When the news of her husband's death reached her, although she expected it, she was so overcome by the sense of her bereavement as to be obliged immediately to take to her bed, and was now really very ill. She rallied, however, considerably after Elsie's return, and for several clays appeared comparatively better. Her disease being purely of a nervous nature in its origin, her very existence sometimes seemed entirely to depend upon keeping her mind tranquil. This she struggled hard to do on account of Elsie, for whom she earnestly desired to continue to live on until she could place her under the guardianship of some kind friend or relative, all of whom were far distant at this period. 
                  The only near connection of Colonel Ashley living was a brother, a surgeon in the British navy. He was very much attached to his niece-would doubtless prove very kind to her were she under his care; but he was a single and homeless man; besides, unfortunately, at this time absent at some foreign port, the whereabouts of which Mrs. Ashley did not know. She could not therefore, if she would, consign her daughter to his charge. 
                  All her own family except herself had emigrated to America soon after her marriage. They settled in the United States, where they were in thrifty and prosperous circumstances. She had always kept up a correspondence with them-and immediately upon her arrival at Dublin, with prudent forethought, wrote to one of her brothers; and subsequently, as soon as Elsie left her to at tend to her dying father, she addressed him again to inform him of it. In each of these communications she spoke of the critical state of her own health, and in the last entreated him to come to her without any delay. She felt that she could not long survive, and had bequeathed her beloved Elsie to his charge, being well assured that he would faithfully befriend her interests, and love her dearly for her sake. She wished much to place this sacred bequest in his hands, likewise to intrust to him the management of her little property. 
                  Almost imperceptibly to every one save herself, she declined, and as she neared the tomb, her affectionate anxieties with regard to this treasured tie of earth, became more and more intense; and frequent were the prayers she sent to the Throne of Mercy, that God would, raise up some kind and efficient friend to shield her shorn lamb in her lonely orphanage-to comfort and sustain her until her uncle arrived. 
                  The heart of Elsie Ashley well nigh broke when she saw the mother she so fondly loved-her bosom friend and choicest blessing-thus perishing before her eyes. But when she heard her maternal anxieties on her account, and marked how in consequence she suffered, although almost overwhelmed with accumulating sorrow, this devoted girl in the strength of her affection so successfully struggled with her feelings, as to indeed become the light and sunshine of that gloomy chamber, a personification of hope gilding the pathway to the tomb. 
                  Mrs. Ashley lingered about two months after her last letter was dispatched, and then died. But not alone did she leave her Elsie to weep in solitude over her sad bereavement, and to realize to the full the meaning of that saddest of words-a friendless orphan. No, that dying mother's prayers had been heard, and heavenly spirits, clothed in human form, hovered around her bed, who soothed her last moments by promises of their protection and friendship. 
                  The clergyman who visited her had interested several respectable persons in behalf of these lonely and afflicted strangers. Among these was a very worthy family in easy circumstances of the name of O'Blenis. These people in particular manifested a kindly sympathy in the troubles and trials of the isolated, disconsolate and, unhappy Elsie. They proffered her their friendship, and affectionately pressed her to come and share their home. Thither she accordingly went. But with these hospitable and excellent people ple she and Nancy were scarcely domesticated, when her uncle arrived. 
                  Mr. Walton had been sailing on the broad Atlantic for nearly six weeks, and was much grieved to find his sister not surviving his coming. Warm-hearted, benevolent, and of an affectionate disposition, he directly manifested so much kindness and fatherly attention toward his niece, that he succeeded, stranger though he had previously been, in easily gaining upon the affections of that confiding and distressed young being, who, as she sobbed out her griefs upon his shoulder, and experienced his tender sympathy, felt herself no longer a desolate orphan. She believed her trials were now ended, and the sweet vision of a cheerful home amid kind kindred allowed her to indulge in bright and happy anticipations. 
                  Her uncle was so fortunate as readily to dispose of her property in England at a fair valuation, also in settling her other affairs. Elsie then bade adieu to the noble-hearted and generous friends who had so kindly sheltered her-and, accompanied by her kind guardian and trusty servant, embarked for her new home in the Western world. After a pleasant voyage they arrived safely in New York, where they took passage in a sloop for Newburgh, in the neighborhood of which town most of her relations were located. 
                  The Walton family consisted of three brothers and two sisters. They were all married, but one of the latter was a widow, and, with her two children, residing with her eldest brother. The other sister, on her marriage a few years before, had removed to Pennsylvania, where her husband and brothers owned considerable landed property. 
                  The grandmother of Elsie still survived, and lived with her guardian, her mother's favorite brother. His wife was a busy, bustling woman, very much devoted to her domestic duties, and lively, good-tempered, amiable, and affectionate. She was the mother of three fine children-two sons and one daughter. Their names were Robert, Edward, and Kate-the latter a sprightly, pretty-looking girl, and the youngest of the trio. 
                  Among all these maternal relatives Elsie Ashley received a cordial welcome, but in this household especially she became an object of interest and love. There was so much of character in the sweet girl-such deep thought, strong principles of duty, charming disposition and fascination of manners, such beauty of mind and person, that she irresistibly won all hearts to love her, as soon as they learnt to appreciate her admirable qualities. Her grandmother, to whom she immediately became devoted, in particular was much affected by her striking resemblance to her mother when at the same age; while between her cousin Edward and herself soon existed the most endearing and fondest ties of affection. 
                  He was a youth some five years her senior-a tall, handsome fellow, of a frank and generous nature; in short, just the kind of man calculated to please her fancy, and enslave her affections. Their mutual friends smiled upon their attachment, and thus happily situated, with parental care again fondly watching over her, and surrounded by loving spirits, the very soul of our orphan was comforted, and for a space she luxuriated in the blessings which she enjoyed. 
                  Nor did the religious sentiments which had given her fortitude in the season of adversity, fade from her remembrance now in the sunshine of prosperity. No, they were too deeply impressed upon her youthful heart to be quickly effaced. But again the horizon of this lovely child of earth was to be overclouded. 
                  The first circumstance which occurred to cast a shadow over her pathway, was the separation from her cousin Kate, who married a merchant from New York, and immediately removed to that city. Next, the Revolutionary War broke out. It was productive of much distress to her family, for some were Loyalists, while others took the oath of allegiance to the new government, and formally abjured all subjection to British power. Party spirit rose high. It caused discord among the dearest friends, and thus the hitherto tenderly attached brothers of the Waltons became estranged. 
                  Mr. Robert Walton, Sr., the guardian of Elsie, had, for some years, been desirous of shifting his family to his rich and beautiful ful land on the Susquehanna. This unhappy state of feeling made him resolve to expedite their going thither. Accordingly he gave orders to have a block-house immediately put up for their accommodation, which they were to occupy until a better habitation could be built; and on account of the troublous aspect of the times, he hastily made every other necessary arrangement for their departure. 
                  There were no steamboats or railroads in those days. A considerable part of the country on their route of travel was in a rough, rude state, with bad roads, containing only a sparse and widely scattered population. Hence it was no small matter for a family situated like theirs to remove to such a distance, having so much of personal property to dispose of. But they adopted the most convenient mode of conveyance. Large Jersey wagons were provided, in which their furniture and luggage were carefully stowed. This baggage-train started off one bright spring morning under the direction of the younger Robert. A little while after, the other members of the family followed. They proceeded first to New York to see Kate, with whom they remained a few days. They then resumed their journey. 
                  Nothing of particular note occurred to relieve the monotony of their way. For some days they were not gladdened even with the sight of a human habitation, except now and then they came to an old deserted cabin tumbling into decay, or an apology for a house perhaps erected for the passing traveller to shelter him from the fury of the elements, or protect him from the wild beasts which frequented those wilds. 
                  Several days afterwards our lonely travellers had passed the boundary line between New Jersey and Pennsylvania. Presently they came to a region of country abounding with scenery, grand and impressive. Here the road was close to the river. On each side of it were to be seen very high mountains, which seemed to have been cleft asunder by some violent concussion of nature; whose large impending rocks maintained a most formidable and awful aspect. One craggy height especially attracted theft attention, which from its prominence had received the name of the Devil's Pulpit. Repeated rains had so entirely washed away the earth from the rocks, that the large trees growing between them Appeared to have fixed their roots in solid masses of stone. 
                  The whole appearance of the country before them was very rigged--but, withal, pleasant. As they proceeded they found a brook at the foot of every mountain, sometimes so deep as to be scarcely fordable. These streams, called creeks, retained their ancient Indian names, as for instance: Sandichnoch, Bucbabuck, etc. A little further they came to a place where they halted to dine. 
                  On looking about they found themselves surrounded by prospects surpassingly beautiful, romantic, and picturesque. So new and delightful was this to Elsie Ashley that she could not repress her natural enthusiasm. A passionate admirer of wild scenery, she enjoyed it the more, but never had she been thus gratified in witnessing such a glorious scene as this. 
                  While their simple meal was preparing, accompanied by Edward, she strolled off on a tour of further observation and discovery. They clambered one hill-top after another, surveying each new view with added delight, while ever and anon they amused themselves by picking up some of the gorgeous or simple flowers which grew in luxuriant profusion in that lovely wild. 
                  They were, however, but a brief space thus employed, and just entered a beautiful glen, when they perceived they were not alone in this solitude. 
                  Several strange voices met their ear, engaged in singing some peculiar metrical rhyme. As they neared the spot from whence the sound proceeded, it suddenly ceased. Ascending another eminence, our youthful pair saw a group of persons just below them on a grassy knoll. They were nine in all-six females, the remainder of the other sex. The dress of all was peculiar, except that of two of the former individuals, who were attired la less hovel style, more in accordance with the fashion of the times. But the greater part of them had a foreign appearance. Edward and Elsie soon discovered they were Germans, and at first conjectured that the majority of them were newly arrived emigrants. Yet, as they looked and listened, these impressions became vague and uncertain. 
                  Two of the females were much older than the others-a very venerable looking man was evidently the husband of the senior matron, and the father of the most interesting of the girls, who were of the respective ages of fourteen, sixteen, and twenty-three. These directly became engaged, with basket and knife in hand, filling the former with various articles sought for diligently under the direction of the one I have just particularized, their male companions assisting them-the elder ladies, meanwhile, employing themselves in knitting. 
                  The horn summoning Edward and Elsie to dinner, announced their proximity. Upon this the whole number looked up and around, and listening to their retreating footsteps discovered them. All of these people directly started in the same direction, headed by the venerable old gentleman of the party. Perceiving this, Edward and Elsie slackened their speed. In a brief space after, they were overtaken, and a mutual introduction followed. And as the hands of each of the strangers grasped the others, they told their names, and gave some account of themselves. 
                  Most of this company were Moravians. It consisted of Bishop Steinberg, his wife, and daughter, besides a German brother and his wife, just imported to fill a vacant situation in the Society in this country; of a Mr. Leitner and daughter; also a lady with her daughter, who were friends of the Leitners. All could speak English except the newly arrived foreigners. 
                  The whole party were on the way to visit Gnadenhuetten, on the Mahony, a small but important Settlement of the Society. They had proceeded thus far safely, but here the axle-tree of their conveyance broke, when they alighted and dispatched the driver with the vehicle to the nearest blacksmith's shop, distant several miles. To beguile the time of his absence they first engaged themselves as Edward and Elsie heard them, in singing together some of their favorite hymns, a practice then common among the Moravians-their people generally being very fond of vocal music, especially of a devotional kind. This over, Rosalie Steinberg, the eldest of the three girls, to gratify her botanical taste, took the opportunity of adding to her collection of mosses and specimens of wild flowers. She and her associates were thus occupied when discovered by the cousins. They had succeeded during their journey in gathering quite a number of new and rare varieties of these natural productions, besides found several curious petrifactions of different insects, woods, etc. With all of these Rosalie especially appeared exceedingly delighted. Her intellectual face and simplicity of manners pleased Elsie, who was also prepossessed in favor of her companions. 
                  As soon as Mr. Walton saw the strangers approaching with his children, he advanced to meet them-and, after a friendly greeting, gave the whole party an invitation to partake of their frugal repast, which they gladly and thankfully accepted. Some more provisions in consequence had to be prepared. This done, the Moravians dined with their kind entertainers. In the meantime the good Bishop and his daughter, together with the young girls, were very conversable and entertaining. These all could speak English, and the majority of them very well. The rest said but little-some, indeed, from their ignorance of the language not being able even to understand any part of the conversation. They found the venerable clergyman both agreeable and well informed, evidently regarded with a great deal of reverence by the rest of his company. In addition, they discerned a tone of humility and simplicity of character in the whole of their group, which charmed the Waltons and Elsie. 
                  Bishop Steinberg informed them they were not altogether on a pleasure excursion-he being deputed to visit the Settlement of Gnadenhuetten to remove an erroneous impression which prevailed there of its inhabitants, that they were selling provisions to Indians and others who favored the British cause. In consequence, a strict examination was to take place upon his arrival, when the falsehood of the accusation would be fully and satisfactorily proved. 
                   
                  A variety of other subjects was then gravely discussed. Thus pleasantly passed nearly two hours, when the repaired vehicle of the Moravians drove up to take them away. 
                  Yet, although this association was so transient, the whole party separated with mutual feelings of respect and very good wishes for each other's welfare, regretting that their companionship had been for so brief a period; yet none felt so deeply interested as Elsie Ashley, whose sensations were indescribable in renewing her acquaintance with the Moravians, a people whose very name had become enshrined in her heart with the most tender recollections, and she felt that a chord had been touched there which would never cease to vibrate. 
                  Nothing else deserving especial notice transpired to our travellers during the remainder of their journey. They followed the course of the noble Susquehanna in a northerly direction through a country of lofty precipices and romantic scenery. For a space they met not a single human being in this charming wild-but saw here and there the deer bounding along the sides of the steep declivities of the mountains and hills. 
                  The new home of the Waltons was situated in one of the most fertile and beautiful locations in the far-famed valley of Wyoming; while his sister resided in one perhaps equally so, in point of richness of soil and charming prospect. She lived about fifteen miles further up the river. Both neighborhoods were comparatively thickly settled, but with a mixed population, some of whom were Indians who lingered near these their native forest wilds long among their favorite hunting-grounds, which they were unwilling to leave in quiet possession of the pale-faces. 
                  Between these people and a portion of the white inhabitants at this period, existed the most rancorous animosity, produced by their jealous feuds and unhappy dispositions, rendering them alike dangerous to each other. Mr. Walton, who was appointed a Justice of the Peace, sought to conciliate both parties by kindness, but only partially succeeded. 
                  The family almost directly visited Aunt Millicent, the sister of Mr. Walton whom I have just mentioned. Elsie, never before having seen this sister of her mother, was particularly interested. She hoped to be able to trace a resemblance between her and this beloved mother, but could not discover much. She found her sorrowing over the loss of her only child, and both herself and husband full of gloomy apprehensions concerning the future safety of their residence. 
                  After returning from this little jaunt, the family settled down to their respective duties. Mrs. Walton attended to her domestic concerns, Elsie aiding her where she could. Mr. Walton was also very busy, for, besides his official duties, he had other avocations which kept him much engaged. Robert was fully employed in conducting the farm, while to Edward was assigned the charge of providing every necessary of the family-purchasing all their provisions in addition to assisting his mother in household matters whenever she required it. His duties, therefore, were altogether purely domestic, enabling him and Elsie to be in almost constant companionship. In this delightful period of frequent communings with each other, the mutual affection of these cousin-lovers became more intensified than ever, and they realized to a greater degree the strength of the tie which bound together their young, trusting, loving hearts, and felt it was as precious as life itself. 
                  The sunbeams of happiness danced around them, and they lived on in joyous love, indulging in naught but bright and glowing anticipations of the future, although their marriage had to be repeatedly deferred-first in consequence of their removal, then afterwards because of the troublous state of the country, more especially the neighborhood in which they lived. 
                  Thus one year or more passed. Meanwhile the Revolutionary war continued. It is well known how prolific with disastrous circumstances it proved to the white settlers in the beautiful Valley of the Wyoming. Disturbance after disturbance occurred, outrage upon outrage was perpetrated both by the white men and their savage foes, until it became almost deluged with blood. 
                  During this interval Mr. Walton, finding his block tenement both inconveniently small and uncomfortable, erected a more commodious and pleasant residence for his family. It had been previously settled, that soon after its completion Edward and Elsie were to be married; but again the cousins were doomed to be disappointed, for just the evening preceding their nuptials, a very serious outbreak occurred which put the lives of the inhabitants of that vicinity in jeopardy. In consequence, their marrying was out of the question, and instead the family felt compelled to separate. The gentlemen, however, considering it their duty, determined to remain to guard their property, and took some pre cautionary measures for their safety, but deemed it prudent for the ladies to retire immediately to a more secure and peaceful situation. After consulting upon the subject, to meet the wishes of the parties themselves, Mrs. Walton concluded to go to New York to her daughter, while Elsie, who would not consent to be such a distance from Edward, resolved upon seeking an asylum nearer home, and, remembering hearing of several Moravian settlements in Pennsylvania, made up her mind to go to the most convenient of them. Edward accompanied her to this retreat, where he continued until the return of Robert from New York, to which place he had escorted his mother. 
                  Edward and Elsie experienced some difficulty in reaching the Settlement. When they arrived they found many troops in the vicinity, a circumstance to cause them to hesitate whether she had better remain; but on inquiry were perfectly satisfied of the safety of the locality, and in consequence she immediately took lodgings there for a present permanency. Nearly a fortnight afterwards, Robert returned, when the two brothers hastened to rejoin their father. 
                  Again the desolating influences of war had brought this soldier's daughter to a Moravian Settlement, and she came now, as then, bearing a heart burthened with sadness, and the painful remembrance that while sojourning among this people she had first become acquainted with grief. There were very tender reminiscences connected with the sorrowful history of her stay at Gracehill she could never forget, and memory, which can travel so speedily over time and space, now distinctly recalled these hallowed scenes of suffering, misery, and wretchedness. As Elsie pondered upon these, she wept. But she turned from this sad contemplation, and employed herself in carefully reviewing the mercies she had since enjoyed-the flowers of happiness strewed in her path, the new ties of affection cheering her young being into a glad existence, rendering it as beautiful as a poet's dream. As her mind rested upon these invaluable bestowments of Heaven, her heart bounded with grateful emotions. Then she contrasted it with her present situation-how changed her condition-her cup of earthly bliss dashed from her lips, just as it filled before her. The recurrence to her mind of all these diversities of her darkened lot, saddened her spirits. In truth, with her experience of life's strange vicissitudes, the uncertainties of its fairest promises, and her own blighted prospects, no marvel if Elsie now appeared inclined to be of a pensive mood. 
                  Yet although apt to be easily depressed, and disposed to feel every disappointment very keenly, and to suffer much from her strong sensibilities of heart-her natural cheerfulness-buoyancy of spirits-hopefulness of disposition-together with a certain reliance upon the good providence of God-enabled her to support herself under her present trials, especially as she soon found objects of interest around her of a novel and pleasing character which so occupied her time and attention, as to divert her thoughts in a measure considerably from the painfulness of her present situation. 
                  Thus cheered by these and her internal resources of consolation, directly upon her arrival at this Settlement she changed the current of her feelings from the contemplation of her own peculiar trials to thinking of other subjects, and seeking in friendship both for solace and support. 
                  Elsie found in the village all her travelling acquaintances of a summer or two previous, and but a brief space intervened ere a mutual cordial recognition took place. Time had changed them but little since their casual meeting near the banks of the Susquehannah, except Wilhelmina Leitner, now transformed from a gay, sporting child to a sedate, quiet young woman. 
                  The Bishop almost immediately called upon Elsie, and soon afterwards she formed an intimacy with his daughter, and became a frequent visitor at the Leitners'; and thus we leave her for the present, to speak of other persons connected with my story. 
                
                
                  II. THE STRANGER FAMILIES. 
                  OTHERS besides Elsie Ashley sought refuge in this place from the horrors of civil war. Indeed during the greater part of the first three years of our national struggle for independence, this was more or less the case in several of the Moravian Settlements in Pennsylvania, in consequence of the protection afforded by the Government because of the accommodations granted to the American army. The large houses of the community-the Brethren's and Sisters'houses being found very suitable for barracks, hospitals and arsenals, were used for that purpose; which brought a great array of troops in these hitherto peaceful quarters of the Society. Most of the conflicts were at the North, and at the period I am now writing, the field of the principal combats was still in that part of the colonies. The battle of the Brandy wine quickly followed by the battle of Germantown, and a few days after General Howe with a large army entering Philadelphia, and other like circumstances, brought a vast number of military into Pennsylvania. 
                  The Moravians were much opposed to a belligerent spirit. Like the Quakers, they advocated peace, quiet, and harmony. They adopted as a principle of their community, not to interfere in the politics of the country where they lived-nor to use weapons of warfare, either for or against it. For this reason they took no part with the Convention formed in Pennsylvania, when the United States declared their independence of the mother country. 
                  They were in consequence suspected of being traitors to the commonwealth, and of course subjected to trials; yet, notwithstanding, they maintained their ground, while they completely vindicated their conduct. They satisfied the Colonial Government of their loyalty to any power which God in his providence should appoint over them; but asserted their peaceable disposition-and besides, avowed scruples of conscience against taking the oath of abjuration then required. 
                  This was at the very commencement of hostilities, when the number of stranger visitors at the Settlement was perhaps greater than at any other time during the war. 
                  Among these were three families who will now claim our attention. I shall designate them by the names of Brunner, Tracy and Waldemar. 
                  The first of these had preceded Elsie Ashley for some weeks-indeed had been there several years before. The second family came to the place only a few days after herself-while the last-named arrived in the Settlement about two months later. 
                  I shall introduce them in the order of their coming. 
                  Mrs. Brunner and her daughter Lizzie constituted all her family staying here, she having besides two sons in Philadelphia. Her husband, formerly a respectable sea-captain, had died only a few years before, leaving her with these three children. She was a very weak-minded, coarse, ill-bred woman-a very superficial character-a person who thought more of herself than any one else did. Her daughter resembled her in many respects, only more refined in manners-lively and gay in disposition-full of fun and frolic-self-willed, artful and cunning-in fact, thoroughly spoilt by her indulgent mother, who suffered her to grow up with all her faults unconnected, un-amended, or improved. Such was Lizzie Brunner, whom I here present to my readers. 
                  From this brief outline of her most prominent characteristics, it will readily be believed she was not at all popular in the place-and of course among a people of such strict notions of propriety as the Moravians of that age, any association with her could scarcely be tolerated. In truth, they considered her conduct altogether, generally very reprehensible, and desired to have as little communication with her as possible. 
                  The Brunners came from Philadelphia-so did the Leitners-and Captain Brunner at one time was connected in business with Mr. Leitner. This circumstance originated the acquaintance between the two families, and for a space they were quite intimate-it first brought the Brunners to the Settlement-afterwards the cheapness of living had induced them to come again-and now the present state of the country. But their familiar intercourse with the Leitner family was considerably restricted, owing to the causes I have mentioned. In truth, the situation of Lizzie at this period was not at all pleasant or congenial to the lively girl, and sometimes the restraint imposed upon her fretted her considerably; yet she usually continued to appear at least tolerably satisfied, amusing herself with jesting at the strictness and prudery of the people, and endeavoring to put a don't-care look upon all their frowns at her conduct. 
                  The next family of whom I shall speak were altogether very different to the Brunners, and although their sojourn in the Settlement commenced several months after Elsie's, yet as nothing of material importance to the interest of my story occurred during that interval, I will, without any circumlocution, at once introduce them to my readers-Doctor Tracy, his sister-in-law, Mrs. Tracy, with her two children, Frederick and Emily, and a domestic. The former, however, tarried but a short space until the rest were somewhat domesticated in their new quarters, and the lady had decided to remain permanently for some time. This party, together with Elsie, found accommodations in the only inn at the place, the Eagle Tavern, where having settled them, I will give some particulars of their history. 
                  The family were of New England origin, and very respectable people, of a high class in society, genteel, refined, and in easy circumstances. The husband and father, a merchant of Philadelphia, but absent in Europe the last six months on important commercial business, leaving his wife and children under the guardianship of his only brother, a respectable physician of Philadelphia. The little daughter of this gentleman being a puny and delicate child, the uncle prescribed pure country air as her best restorative. Then the question arose, where to take her. Mrs. Tracy would have preferred retiring to the beautiful summer residence of the Doctor in the vicinity of the city; but the whole of the surrounding district being at that time filled with troops, rendered it impracticable. Her brother having previously visited this Settlement-been pleased with the salubrity of the locality-its quiet and neat appearance-and, in short, receiving such a favorable impression of the place, he strongly recommended them to go there, and in consequence they went. 
                  Mrs. Tracy was a lady between thirty and forty years of age, of pleasant countenance, though not handsome-kind-hearted and amiable-very domestic, and a devoted wife and mother-of a retiring nature, and rather reserved with strangers, yet when well acquainted, generally disposed to be friendly and sociable. 
                  Her son, Frederick, was a fine, noble-looking lad, about thirteen years old-of an open, ingenuous countenance, lively, exceedingly good-tempered, bright and intelligent. He was the eldest of her family, and a very healthy and promising youth. 
                  Not so his little sister Emily, the sole survivor of the other four children of her parents. She was naturally a very sweet, affectionate child, but of such feeble and frail constitution as constantly to keep alive the tender anxieties of her doting mother lest she should lose her. Two brothers and a sister had followed each other in rapid succession to the grave a couple of years before, while she, more delicate than either of them, continued to live on. This gave some encouragement to the mother; but years added not much strength to the fondly cherished one-yet, as she still survived, she hoped with care her system might be braced, and her life preserved. Her uncle the Doctor, however, did not indulge such sanguine expectations; yet he believed it possible that the child might be materially benefited by the change, and perhaps the brief space of her existence be extended thereby. 
                  But to see her as Elsie did the morning subsequent to her arrival, such a result appeared neither a desirable nor probable circumstance, and it required the hopefulness and love of an affectionate mother either to entertain the idea or the wish that it should be so. In fact, the little girl really was; so exceedingly emaciated and so feeble, as to render every exertion painfully distressing. But this exhaustion and suffering probably were caused by her journey, as only a few days afterwards she had revived considerably, and appeared much better. 
                  Elsie Ashley directly called upon Mrs. Tracy-proffered her kindly attentions-manifested strong sympathy in her peculiar trials-made friends with the children, and established quite an intimacy with the whole family-a perfectly natural circumstance on her part, with her friendly, social disposition, in her lonely and isolated situation. Yet she did not accomplish all this at once; but the fact of her being at the same house, and her accommodations almost opposite to Mrs. Tracy's, added to her rare attractiveness of manner, soon won this lady from her natural shyness into familiar intercourse with her, and made the association a very agreeable one to both parties. Bishop Steinberg, with Rosalie, Mr. and Mrs. Leitner, Mrs. Brunner and Lizzie, together with several of the present resident strangers, seemed disposed to show her similar attentions; but the condition of little Emily, and her own reserved nature, disinclined her to entertain visitors. For this reason, though she appreciated the kindly motive of these people, she did not cultivate their acquaintance, and presently they almost altogether ceased to visit her, except the good Bishop and his daughter, and Lizzie and her mother; by this time Elsie discovered that the two latter were not at all popular among these Moravians, and the intimacy between them and the Leitners had much diminished. 
                  Thus several weeks passed, nothing in the meantime to be noted here transpiring in the place. 
                  At this period there came a fearful account of a dreadful destruction of property in the Wyoming Valley, about twenty miles south of the Walton locality. Several houses had been entered, plundered and then destroyed by fire, while the frightened inmates were scattered in various directions. This occurred several months previous to the great massacre of Wyoming. 
                  The information of this distressing event was almost directly followed at the Settlement by the arrival of a large party of the sufferers themselves. It was a bitter cold day when these unfortunate people arrived. They were in a wagon, and on horseback, and consisted of an aged couple-half a dozen children, three young men, two adult females, and a half-grown boy, one of the servants of the family. 
                  They were Mr. and Mrs. Waldemar, Sen., their three sons, the wife and five children of one of them, a daughter, and a little girl, the orphan child of a deceased son, and a servant boy, the only one of their domestics who shared their flight. 
                  This family were originally from the State of Connecticut, but moved to the Wyoming Valley about a dozen years previous-being, like Mr. Walton, allured to that particular locality by the beauty and fertility of the soil. They were thrifty and prosperous farmers, owning not only a large tract of land in that district, but had besides a considerable quantity in the Genesee country, in the State of New York. Their habitation was situated near one of the most beautiful wilds of the Wyoming Valley. 
                  Many Indians lived in their vicinity, whom, although hitherto never molesting the Waldemars, they for some time had suspected of entertaining evil designs against them. This feeling latterly had much increased, because of the depredations already committed by these savages in the neighborhood, and in seeing several of them skulking near the premises, evidently avoiding observation-the recent threats of some of them, together with other suspicious conduct. But what excited the greatest alarm to the whole family, some of the same Indians had been seen watching, apparently with a great deal of interest and attention, the movements of little Ellinor, the favorite grandchild of the old people, and the universal pet of the household. 
                  About this period, with prudent forethought, the brothers resolved to endeavor to secure their most precious movables. For this purpose they provided a large box, wherein they deposited these treasures, consisting of valuable papers, some old family plate, together with a quantity of gold coin. They then buried the box deep under the ground. This undertaking was scarcely accomplished, when they were suddenly surprised by the savages, who, after destroying their mill, plundered their storehouses, and next proceeded to their residence. Yet ere they reached it, the inmates had precipitately fled-some on horses, the others on foot. The family experienced considerable difficulty in removing the old people. They happily succeeded, and all escaped safely into the woods. Presently after nightfall a bright light shot up in the darkness. Their merciless enemies had fired their dwelling, and long before the dawn of the morrow it was a heap of ashes. In the meanwhile a storm commenced, and by-and-by it rained in torrents. The whole party became suddenly drenched; the old people especially suffered much in consequence. 
                  While in this sad plight, a friendly wagoner passed near them with his team. He stowed them all in his capacious vehicle, and took them to his house, where they were obliged to stay a few days on account of the illness of several members of the family, produced by the great fright and exposure they had incurred. When sufficiently recovered, their kind host enabled them to pursue their way, and brought them at their desire to this Settlement, where they purposed to remain for the present, and, indeed, until they had settled the whereabouts of their future home. 
                  For some weeks the whole of this company stayed at the Eagle, but were in a different part of the building from the Tracys and Elsie Ashley. For a space, the adult females of this band of homeless wanderers were secluded from observation; they remained almost entirely by themselves, and were not visible even at meal times. In fact, all of this family were sufferers more or less from the terror and fatigue of their perilous journey of so many miles, in which ever and anon they had been startled, either by the appearance of ah Indian-a suspicious-looking white person-a party of lawless marauders-or by fancying they heard the stealthy steps of some of their red foes pursuing them. 
                  The effect of this was most sensibly felt by the venerable heads of the family, who both for some time previous had been rather in feeble health. To them particularly it proved a sore trial, to see their beautiful property laid waste, their pleasant and comfortable home destroyed, and their forced banishment from scenes endeared to them by interesting associations. Besides the sufferings and anxieties of that fearful night, the exposure they then endured had told seriously upon their aged frames. Indeed all the circumstances connected with their flight so painfully affected their shattered constitutions, it soon became apparent that neither of them would probably ever recover from it. No marvel, therefore, if their sons and daughters should feel disinclined for society, and continue to be disposed to keep perfectly retired in consequence. 
                  But not so the children, who did not realize these trials, nor the anxieties which weighed down the spirits of their elders. They soon wearied of seeing their sad countenances, and of the confinement of their own rooms. They wandered out, and but a little while after made the acquaintance of Frederick Tracy, who brought them into the room where his mother and sister were. They were a fine group of children, from the age of four to fourteen, two girls and four boys. 
                  Mrs. Tracy immediately became particularly interested in the youngest of the girls-a bright, happy creature, full of affectionate feelings for everybody who wanted them, and so beautiful withal, that the eye could never tire with looking at her. She was one of those fair blossoms of earthly mould, who directly, impress the beholder with a sense of their loveliness, and you are apt to fancy as you mark the ever-varying expression of countenance, that you are gazing upon the reflection, of some pure spirit, belonging to a higher and holier sphere. This incarnation of heavenly loveliness bore the name of Ellinor, after her paternal grandmother. She was an orphan, but so kindly cherished, so dearly loved, by all her family, that she could not possibly realize her early bereavement. 
                  This association perfectly delighted Frederick. He had felt the want of companions, which these young people supplied, for the two elder of the children were boys, and near his own age. Besides, they were very different from any of those with whom he had been accustomed to associate-so guileless, innocent, and unsophisticated in manners. The contrast both amused and pleased him. His little sister was also gratified with her new playmates, especially with little Ellinor. The Waldemar children and Mrs. Tracy's directly became intimate. They were frequently together, participating in the various amusements common to their age, and generally a very happy, merry party. 
                  But one day when Emily was rather more feeble, irritable, and impatient, though Ellinor was engaged with her cousins and Frederick in an interesting play, the child observed it, and suddenly stopped her playful mood, then stole quietly away from her joyous companions to the couch of the little sufferer, and there, with an artlessness and sweetness of manner peculiar to herself, gently endeavored to soothe and comfort her. And thus afterwards she beguiled many a tedious and weary hour of the little invalid's confinement. No marvel, therefore, the sick child soon became very much attached to her, and fretted whenever she left her, also that her very presence cheered Mrs. Tracy-while to Frederick it was a perfect enigma, how the lively little girl could voluntarily relinquish their juvenile sports, their childish pleasures, for the peevishness of sickness. 
                  But Ellinor Waldemar was all heart-and that heart brimful of all sorts of kindly, sympathetic sensibilities. She delighted in giving and receiving affection, in making others happy. In the indulgence of the latter amiable impulse of her nature, she seemed to lose all consideration of self, but thought only of the object in view-and when she created happiness it only added to her own. Hence she became a general favorite. Everybody loved her. They could not help it-such a sweet, lovable, gentle being. And wherever she went, her presence seemed to bring with it a pleasant and delightful influence. Ellinor was nearly two years the senior of Emily, then scarcely six years of age. 
                  Several weeks of this intercourse glided by. It was now the middle of February, and the weather intensely cold. In the meanwhile all the young men of the Waldemar family were more or less away. Being excellent sportsmen, they frequently came home with quantities of venison, bear's-meat, and wild fowl, and sometimes such a quantity of them they not only supplied the table of the Eagle, but had more than sufficient for the whole of the rest of the Settlement; and by this means the family not only, were now enabled to pay their daily expenses, but, in consequence of the scarcity of animal food, and the high prices of provisions, generally had a handsome surplus remaining. 
                  Thus the brothers employed themselves until spring. During this interval they were forming their plans for the future domestic arrangements of the family. They wished to procure a farm--but none to suit their views could be had in the vicinity; and they were still talking and inquiring upon the subject, undetermined where to locate. 
                  While in this state of uncertainty the children continued to be frequently with Mrs. Tracy's. 
                  But presently a change came over little Ellinor. She continued, it is true, her visits with her cousins-but she only remained a few moments at a time; then with tearful eyes would hurry away, saying she must go, for her dear grandparents were not well, and wished her beside them. At length one morning she came not, neither did either of her cousins. By and by, Mrs. Tracy dispatched Frederick to inquire the reason, who heard that both of the old people were very ill. With this report he hastened to his mother. Elsie was present when he returned. She immediately went to their apartments to make further inquiry, as well as to proffer her services, which being thankfully accepted, a moment more brought her to the bedside of the venerable pair. She directly perceived the old gentleman was evidently near his end. He noticed no one, and bad been for several hours in a heavy stupor. 
                  She found Mrs. Waldemar not so low, yet in a very precarious condition. They were a fine-looking couple, the old lady strikingly so, although very much emaciated from care and sickness. The daughter, their youngest child, a young woman of about eighteen years of age, of interesting countenance, and remarkably neat in her person. She was just about giving her mother a narcotic as Elsie entered. 
                  "Not now, dearie," said she, gently pushing it aside, "but I will take it presently if I need it. I wish first to see father wake up again," looking anxiously at her husband as she spoke. 
                  "But, mother, dear mother," replied the daughter, as calmly as she could, "suppose it is a long while ere his sleep is over. If you would rather not have the medicine just yet, pray take the composing powder to quiet your poor nerves," weeping as she spoke. 
                  "Dearie, don't take on so and I will. Where is it, Annie?" Her daughter handed it to her, but she had scarcely swallowed it when the quick ear of affection perceived that her husband breathed unnaturally. 
                  "Hark!" said she, "what is the matter? Raise him up, stranger, if you please," she exclaimed with unwonted energy, "he is dying! my dear Josey is going! Here, place my hands in his, that I may be with him even to the last. Look, dear husband, I am still close to you-your Nelly is yet with you, and she will soon follow you to where there is no more trouble-no bad Indians-no wicked white men-no one to make us afraid." As she spoke, she turned towards him; yet he replied not. 
                  "Ellinor, my darling pet, kiss grandpa; sing him that pretty hymn he loved so well, and perhaps, dearie, you can charm his good old spirit back to us for a little while longer." 
                  The child obeyed, and sang with thrilling pathos her simple verse. The venerable man still retained consciousness. He heard her sweet voice, and essayed to speak, but in vain; he only faintly smiled, and in a few brief moments after, there was a gurgling noise in the throat, several long respirations followed, and then his weary and worn-out frame had attained its rest. 
                  This dispensation of Providence brought about the family a number of the good people of the Settlement, to show those Christian acts of kindness and attention so necessary on such trying occasions, and especially situated as they were entirely among strangers. All the brothers happening to be absent on the morning of the decease of their father, added to the embarrassment of their sister, being thus left almost alone to make the first arrangements with regard to his honored remains. 
                  Bishop Steinberg and Rosalie, with Mr. and Mrs. Leitner, were in particular very kind to these afflicted persons; but the daughter of the good divine rendered herself most efficiently serviceable in attending to the comfort of the venerable widow, who really was so feeble as to require constant care. Elsie assisted Rosalie in her tender ministrations of kindness. The children were cared for by herself and Mrs. Tracy, the latter lady at the same time giving the family the most substantial proof of interest and sincere sympathy. 
                  Fortunately, ere that sad day closed, the sons returned. They found their mother very much weaker than when they left her. Indeed, the old lady failed rapidly from the period of her husband's departure. She was more composed, however, than they could have expected. But this resulted from the impression upon her mind of soon being re-united to the beloved partner of her life, an unspeakable comfort to her. Yet there were moments when a dark shadow rested upon her spirits, which caused her considerable distress. 
                  It was concerning the future of the little Ellinor-the petted plaything of her aged heart. It seems that this darling child had been taken from the arms of her dying mother when scarcely six months old, by her father, who put her into those of her grandmother, with the promise she would from thence supply that parent's need, which pledge she renewed a little more than three years later, when he himself lay stretched upon the bed of death. 
                  All this had added to the interest and love which bound the little orphan so closely and strongly to the heart of the old lady. She felt herself now dying; then what would become of this fondly cherished little being-to whom should she bequeath this sacred trust? She had a thousand anxieties concerning her-they haunted her even in the moments when she dozed. 
                   
                  Sometimes during this interval she entertained the idea of the child being stolen by those savages who had regarded her with such evident interest, when nothing would convince her to the contrary but to have little Ellinor closely nestled to her. 
                  "You must never let them have you, darling," she said, "promise me that-and mind, never go near any of them again; for they will carry you away-yes they will, my pet, to make you a little papoose. Come closer to me; you are safe in your grandma's arms, where would that I could ever hold you." 
                  "Mother, dear mother," said one of her single sons, "do calm yourself. The Indians shall never have Ellinor, I promise you." 
                  "She is safe from them while you are here, I believe," the old lady answered, "but God knows where you will live, and what will become of her." 
                  She had besides, a host of fears concerning the health of the child which her children for some time in vain endeavored to remove. They assured her the child should always have a safe abiding place under their roof-tree-be tenderly cared for, and provided with every comfort in their power; that her health and her life should ever be precious in their sight. 
                  "I believe you, my kind, good, dutiful children," she replied, "but, dearies, you are all houseless yourselves now, and it may be long in these troublous times ere you get again comfortably settled, and my tender lamb, my sweet nursling, my orphaned darling, you know, is too delicate to bear much exposure." 
                  These were undeniable arguments-unanswerable objections-for though the brothers had secured a present home between thirty and forty miles distant, it was in such a rough district of country they probably would have to encounter many severe hardships and privations, which they could not but fear would perhaps be perilous to her frail and delicate constitution. 
                  This placed them in a quandary-for though the little girl had some maternal relations, they were far away in Connecticut, and the journey long and tedious thither. Besides, perhaps they could not receive her. Thus she had no other certain home but theirs. 
                   
                  They spoke, however, encouragingly to their mother-again reiterating the promises regarding her. The old lady next reminded her children of the interest the child held in their box of buried treasures, which all assured her they would not forget. 
                  "And do make yourself entirely easy about little Elite, dismiss every anxiety relative to her," said one of the sons, "for we will certainly do the best we can for her." 
                  "I believe you, Johnny dear," she replied, "and I commit her therefore to your keeping, and may God watch over you for good, and direct you in your precious trust. And God bless you all, dearies, and send you back again, a happy and comfortable home." 
                  From this period, the dear old lady appeared to be perfectly satisfied about the future of little Ellinor, and altogether in a calm and happy state of mind. 
                  The day following this conversation Mr. Waldemar was buried. That morning Mrs. Waldemar seemed no worse, though evidently very feeble. At her desire, Ellinor did not attend the funeral, but remained alone at home with her. There was something peculiarly solemn in her manner on this memorable occasion. She looked at the child a long time with unutterable affection. 
                  "Come near me, dearie," said she. Ellinor got upon the bed beside her, put her arm around the old lady's neck-kissed her over and over again. 
                  "You will never forget me, my child; always think of your grandmother with love-how precious you were to her-and remember your grandpa and I are in heaven, and strive to get there too, won't you, my pet? for heaven is made for such as you-and God loves good children; and come now sing to me the same beautiful hymn you did for father." Ellinor commenced it. Her little voice trembled with emotion." Stop, stop a moment, dearie, will you, to give me one of your sweet kisses. "She looked strangely-the child was terrified, but embraced her, and as she did so, received the last breath of her venerable relative. Yet, unconscious of this, she continued to press those pale lips, and was thus found a few minutes after, when the family returned from the grave of their father. 
                  A week later, not only was Mrs. Waldemar buried, but her family had scattered-the sons, with the wife and children of the one, to their new home in the wilderness, while the young aunt, with her orphan niece, still remained at the Settlement. 
                  But they were no longer at the Eagle. They had shifted their lodgings to the house of a childless couple of the name of Neisser. These people were Germans, but could understand and speak English, though imperfectly. They were very affectionate in their way to these desolate strangers, and soon became exceedingly attached to the little Ellinor. Indeed, so much so, they earnestly desired to adopt the sweet child as their own. The lovely young orphan, whose little heart was so expansive in its feelings, immediately returned their affection with interest. She was strangely attracted to them-perhaps the very circumstance of their being rather advanced in years may have reminded her of the grandparents she had just lost, and made her thus love them. 
                  But when they proposed this arrangement to the aunt, it greatly distressed her, being too fond of Ellinor readily to listen to any such proposition. Yet, again and again they urged their wishes, and so wrought upon the child's feelings, that she herself became quite willing to stay where she would be so kindly treated, and no bad people to hurt her. 
                  A month later, one of the uncles arrived to take his sister and niece away. The old folks acquainted him with their desire, but he would not listen to such an arrangement. He was the same uncle to whose care the old lady had particularly bequeathed the child. 
                  Presently the wagon was at the door, and little Ellinor just about entering it, when she accidentally slipped, fell and broke her arm-consequently she could not then leave. 
                  Mother Neisser considered this a providential occurrence, and as he nursed her little favorite, again pleaded for permission to keep her as her own; but her relatives still refused her request. 
                   
                  It so happened, however, when little Ellinor had sufficiently recovered to be able to travel, her uncle heard that the small-pox prevailed through the region of country they would have to pass-besides, large troops of soldiery were to be seen in every direction on their route of travel in anticipation of a battle. 
                  These serious circumstances combined again postponed their journey, and, subsequently, when the aunt felt compelled to join her family, other considerations, equally as weighty, induced them to waver in their determination of insisting upon taking the child away. 
                  The old lady now, if possible, urged the matter more strongly. She assumed the probability of the whole tissue of circumstances happening by a Divine direction. This view of the case directly impressed both the uncle and aunt. It caused them to re-consider the proposition, ponder well upon it, and talk it over with each other. While they were thus conferring together upon the subject, all the past anxieties of their beloved mother in relation to this dear little girl presented themselves, and passed rapidly in review before them; and they remembered especially how she dreaded the effect of a wilderness life for her. Then the idea occurred to them, that could she now be consulted in reference to this proposal of Mother Neisser, perhaps she would advise them, at least in a measure, to comply with it. Following this suggestion, they determined to allow little Ellinor to remain with the old lady for the present, but with no promise at all of a permanency to the arrangement. And thus they settled the question, yielding their wishes to what seemed best for the comfort and interest of the child, and consented to leave their darling little niece for an indefinite period to the guardianship of Mr. and Mrs. Neisser. Yet, immediately afterwards, these fond relatives fain would have retracted the whole arrangement, and taken the child with them; but, finally, agreed to her staying, but with the proviso, that if she pined for the home of her kindred, or became in any other respect dissatisfied with her situation, they could remove her immediately. Hence, they left her with the idea that probably the separation would be only a temporary one. 
                  It was now about the middle of May. While all these circumstances were occurring-I mean from the time of the death of the old people to the departure of the aunt from the Settlement-frequent intercourse bad been maintained between their friends at the Eagle with the little Ellinor. She went there many times with her aunt, and they in return came often to see her. And since her accident, Elsie more particularly had been attentive to the little girl. In truth, she was become very fond of her. Several reasons existed for this predilection. The very similarity of their situations gave her a strong claim upon her love-both orphans, from the same district of country, and alike driven from it by the ruthless savages. These circumstances, without any other, would have been sufficient to create an especial interest in her behalf. But, in addition, it was excited by the artless innocence and extraordinary beauty of the child; her amiable and affectionate disposition, and the very many lovable traits of her character, also impressed Elsie, that she took her at once to her warm, loving heart, as a fond object of regard. 
                  Hence, presently, we find her, though so young, a dearly cherished friend-the pleasant companion of many of her lonely hours; and when Elsie was almost overcome by grief and sorrow, with her peculiar sweetness of manner, tenderly soothing and beguiling her out of the melancholy which then, in spite of herself, so painfully oppressed her spirits. 
                  And in the interchange of such kindly sympathies, a friendship, firm and enduring, was formed between Elsie Ashley and Ellinor Waldemar; and in their future history, which is blended with the following tale, it will be found that this companionship and association, notwithstanding the disparity of their years, proved mutually beneficial to these sister orphan friends. 
                
             
             
                
                
               MARRYING BY LOT. 
                
                  CHAPTER I. 
                  THIS custom originated in the Society coeval with the renewal of their church, at the period when, full of zeal and religious fervor, the devoted feelings of the pious Moravian exiles were of fitting mood for the adoption of any such extraordinary measure. 
                  When we consider the particular circumstances of these colonists-the elements of which their characters were composed-the age in which they lived-their visionary enthusiasm and ardent piety-it is not a matter of surprise that singular absurdities were introduced among them; nor that women, having the natural disposition of their sex to sacrifice themselves for those they love, possessing hearts burning with love to God and zeal to do his service, should in child-like faith and simplicity originate this peculiar arrangement. 
                  For this strange usage of theirs, though not first proposed by the single Sisterhood, emanated from a portion of their number, in consequence of a settled determination on their part, which resulted in the adoption of this truly queer regulation in the Society. Some of these were young girls, scarcely past childhood, with little or no experience of life, and probably few, if any of them, had been tried in the affections of the heart; but all loved the Saviour, and their impressible natures were stamped with strong ideas of religious obligatory duties. 
                  And fully imbued with the remarkable fervor of piety then animating the Society-their total abnegation of self-firm attachment to their newly restored Zion, its offices and institutions-besides having implicit confidence in the wisdom and fatherly care of the elders appointed among them--these devoted daughters of their church placed the treasury of their domestic happiness in their hands-with a dedicatory vow had it laid upon the renovated altar of their faith. Thus they established this custom, which continued to be faithfully practised by their people for about a century. From their historians we extract the following account of it: 
                  "Among the earliest emigrants to Herrnhut came a young girl of fifteen, by name Anna Nitschman, of such remarkable piety that, notwithstanding her extreme youth, the Society proposed and accepted her by lot for the responsible situation of elderess of the single Sisterhood there. Soon afterwards she influenced seventeen of these young maidens to enter with her upon a solemn engagement to devote themselves entirely to the Lord-and, among other things, to listen to no proposition of marriage except through the elders of the Society-thus referring their choice to the decision of the church, rather than to their own judgment. Indeed, in consequence of the strict rules then enacted by the Society, which almost prevented any social intercourse between the sexes, especially the young people generally, opportunities were rare of forming any tender attachment among them. Yet, notwithstanding this deprivation, it did not prevent their desire of marrying. Such being the case, and the Sisterhood continuing firm in their resolve, the candidates for matrimony among their brotherhood had to consult the elders upon the subject, who, not wishing to take upon themselves the responsibility of so delicate and momentous an undertaking, concluded to dispose of it in the same way they settled other questions of serious import submitted to them, where human discernment could not possibly foresee the result-to ask the counsel of Heaven to direct them through a decision by lot." 
                  Thus originated this practice of the primitive Moravians, stud from that period no marriage could be contracted in the Society without the sanction of the elders-nor a promise of marriage given or received except in their presence. This rule was so rigidly observed, that scarcely any in their Society of their male members would have ventured to allow himself even to express a particular partiality for either of their Sisterhood until presented before the Conference as a Clebs desiring matrimony, and then only with the privilege of having her first proposed, but with the understanding, however, if the decision of the "lot" decided against his wishes, he should be willing to resign such a connection. 
                  In order fully to appreciate this arrangement of the Society, it is necessary to state here, that the Primitive Moravians like their ancient church, with a powerful sense of the wonderful providence of God manifested to them as a people, earnestly wished to yield themselves implicitly to His guidance and direction. They considered their church as a Theocracy-as thoroughly under the Divine government as that of the Jews of old; and to enable them to ascertain the Divine mind upon the subject-to realize, as sensibly as possible, Him to be really, immediately superintending their church-regulating and giving impulse to every wheel, spring, or movement of their whole ecclesiastical rule, they adopted the use of the "lot," regarding it as a means whereby God might vouchsafe to show them His will-to counsel and direct them to do his pleasure. 
                  Indeed, through this channel of communication with Heaven, their whole church politic was governed-internally and externally; at home or abroad; aye, in the most private domestic affairs of life. In truth this practice at one time became of such common use in the Society, many of their people would scarcely take a journey, make a visit, or even write a letter without having recourse to it. But be it observed, the custom was never practised without a great deal of prayer and childlike-faith in the observance. Hence the wonderful happiness, prosperity, and success of their church during the period of its continuance, giving it a prominence and respectable position, perhaps otherwise not obtained, among the other Protestant Christian denominations-entitling them to be considered as indeed a peculiar people of God. 
                   
                  But to return to the subject of their "marriages by lot." Their method of procedure on these occasions will be found in the following pages, in a variety of instances taken from actual occurrences; and though this manner of selecting a partner for life may seem very strange and unnatural to my readers generally, it is a remarkable and well-authenticated fact, that connubial unhappiness was of rare occurrence among these simple-minded children of faith. And I have been told concerning the band of eighteen maidens who originated this singular custom, all married, and became either the wife of a minister or missionary--besides were, without any exception whatever, remarkably happy in the partners thus chosen, and, with their husbands, were excellent examples to others in the conjugal state, and led exemplary and useful lives. I know nothing more of either of them except of Anna Nitschman, who, after many years of valuable service as an elderess of the Sisterhood, became the second wife of Count Zinzendorf, and survived him only about a fortnight. And now to my story. 
                  It is within one hundred and fifty miles of the metropolis of our Union, in a Settlement of the Primitive Moravians, and nearly a century ago, where I wish my readers to fancy the principal events happened they find recorded here. The place itself much resembled their early Settlements in Germany-in the style of the buildings-general features of character-also in the appearance of the people, who, in fact, with but few exceptions, were precisely the same as those colonists. They were remarkably neat, orderly, quiet, industrious, economical-simple and retiring in their habits-quaint in their manners, unusually grave and thoughtful, strict religionists and stern disciplinarians of their ecclesiastical rules and obligations, but, withal, kind-hearted and affectionate. 
                  There were but few houses in this Moravian village-sufficient, however, for the wants of the inhabitants, for, like other Settlements of the Society, they were commonly arranged to accommodate several families. In addition to these residences were some larger. 
                   
                  The Gemein Haus (Congregation House) for their clergy and the other officials of the Settlement-the conomics, or Unity's Schools, institutions of learning especially designed for the education of the children of their ministers and missionaries, and training young men for the sacred office-and desides, three other buildings-for the bachelors, maidens, and widows among them; ycleped by the Society, the "Single Brethren's," the "Single Sisters'" and the "Widows'" houses-whore each of these divisions of their people lived entirely by themselves. These establishments were among the peculiarities of the Primitive Moravians, and originated from a supposed desirable requirement. They answered the purpose intended, in being secure, cheap, and comfortable homes for their numerous inmates, where they were able to obtain a respectable livelihood-enjoy Christian fellowship with each other; to cultivate a growth in piety, and prepare for future usefulness in their church. They were usually large buildings, because of the various kinds of business pursued in them and the many individuals accommodated therein. And here they were wont to continue to sojourn until they changed their life of single blessedness for the matrimonial yoke-the Brethren generally obtaining their wives from the Single Sisterhood Institution of the Society, and sometimes the Widows' House. 
                  It is in the Sister House of the Settlement of which I am writing, where it is to be supposed lived the maidens of my story-also that the whole number together amounted to rather more than one hundred, all under the especial spiritual charge of an elderess appointed for the purpose, a truly excellent woman and a very important personage among them. These single females were from the ages of fourteen to fourscore years. Quite a proportion of these were aged-a proof that the life of a religious celibate of tranquil mind is favorable to longevity. 
                  The Society composing this Sisterhood were from various ranks in life-some in comfortable circumstances, but the majority were poor and obliged to earn their daily bread. Few were liberally educated, and a portion of them could neither read nor write. Yet all had been carefully instructed in lessons of heavenly wisdom, which well supplied to them the place of human lore. These Moravian Sisters were from different parts of the world, but most of them came from Germany, being the children of the original founders of Herrnhut, the mother Settlement of the Society, or of other German Settlements. 
                  Among this congregated band of maidens were upwards of twenty between the ages of sixteen and thirty, who, with a few other subsequent residents of the same establishment, will! be mentioned more or less in these recorded illustrations of Moravian marriages by lot. Of this selected number, all were either daughters of ministers, missionaries, or belonging to emigrant families, save three or four, and nearly all were among their poor sisters. About a half a dozen, however, were in easy circumstances. 
                  There were two sets of three sisters, Paulina, Frederica, and Catharine. Englehart-Theodora, Angelica, and Maria Rauch-besides three others of two each-Frauche and Veronica Miller-Amelia and Rosina Schmidt-Susan and Dorothy Stoltz; also their cousins, Sophy and Annie Dohlman, who, with Christiana Huber, Mary Weiss, Caroline Hoffe, Annie Caritas Knauisse, Henrietta Klbing, Mary Ann Schneider, Catarina Steinbeck, Louisa Bender, Augusta Mhring, Rosalie Steinberg, and Wilhelmina Leitner, completed the set. 
                  To enter into a detailed history of all these different persons would take more time and place than can be afforded here; therefore, gentle reader, expect it not. But as my object is to state fully the whole circumstances of such a marriage, with the consequences resulting from this connection so formed in every condition of life, I present this formidable array of the Sisterhood, though only to particularize a few individual instances, while I give merely a brief outline of the others. 
                  Of this company of maidens I have selected two, who have already been mentioned in this book, Rosalie Steinberg and Wilhelmina Leitner, both interesting girls, and among the heroines of my story, the former being one of Its principal characters. She was the elder of the two, and the only child of Bishop Steinberg, then an eminent man in the Society. He had been connected with the Moravians about a dozen years, previous to which time he resided with his family in one of the cities in Germany. Rosalie was intelligent and amiable, fond of reading, yet more of study-naturally cheerful, of a happy disposition-of excellent judgment-very observant and discreet withal; in short, remarkably talented, of unquestioned superiority, and a very useful person in the Settlement. Her opportunities for acquiring a good education had been limited; nevertheless she possessed an accomplished mind-a highly cultivated intellect. For these attainments, she was indebted mainly to her own persevering efforts in gaining knowledge, aided by her uncommon native abilities. 
                  Fortunately her position in early youth had been favorable for the development of her mental powers, and to satisfy the cravings of an unusually inquiring mind-her father at that period holding a Professorship in a College or Seminary, associated with gentlemen distinguished among the literati of the day, with whom Rosalie had frequent opportunities of conversing, and being informed upon subjects generally deemed too profound for the understanding of children. In this choice circle of strong intellects her mind was formed, and received impressions which told greatly upon her future character. 
                  Possessing a retentive memory, Rosalie Steinberg garnered in remembrance many of the observations and teachings of these sage instructors, and though but a child at the time, then drank sufficiently of the Pierian spring to obtain an almost insatiable thirst for knowledge. Hence, subsequently, when having but few of the usual means of increasing her stores of information, she turned to those within her reach, and looking at the book of nature, that inexhaustible volume of wonders, she perused and studied its ample pages, and so advantageously to herself as to render her familiar with many of the countless species both of animate and inanimate creation, from the loftiest forest trees to the simplest flower or shrub-of the various fossils, stones, and minerals abounding in the earth. In like manner the insert tribe claimed her attention, and of these she gathered specimens of numerous kinds, and had collected together quite a museum of natural curiosities. In fact, Rosalie was an excellent self-taught naturalist, and being of a communicative and sociable disposition, and having the faculty of imparting her knowledge, and making her listeners interested in her subject, caused heir to be not only an entertaining but instructive companion. She was a general favorite, and while her sisters felt her superiority, it did not lessen her popularity with them, but on the contrary it resulted in nought but pleasurable feelings, because of her kindly nature, find the aptitude of her disposition of readily conforming itself to the minds of those about her. Yet she had but few intimates among the Sisterhood. Of these, one was Wilhelmina Leitner, the only child of her parents, a highly respectable couple, who desired this companionship for their daughter, in the hope of its proving beneficial to her. Rosalie, at the period of which I am now writing, was nearly twenty-five, and Wilhelmina just sixteen. 
                  The Engleharts were the daughters of a Moravian missionary, still toiling in an unhealthy but promising field of labor, where their mother had died several years before. According to the established custom of the Church, their children had been early sent from their parents, and found a home in this Settlement, where they were taken care of and educated. Their cousin Christiana belonged to a numerous family of very worthy people, both descended from Moravian emigrants. They were poor, and much respected. 
                  Mary Weiss and Caroline Hoffe were both orphans-the former friendless, until she found an asylum in the Sisters' House of this place; the latter emigrated to this country with her father from Germany a few years before. He soon after died, since which period her home had been in this establishment. She was considered wealthy, having an independent income. 
                  The Millers were daughters of one of their faithful and efficient clergymen, always laboring among poor people. Such was the case with the parents of Annie Caritas Knausse, but with this difference, that the latter were pursuing their toilsome and self-denying duties with very little apparent success. They were settled in the Blue Mountains, and had to struggle with great hardships and severe difficulties. This daughter was one of nearly a dozen children. She conducted the dress-making business for the whole Settlement, which enabled her to afford some assistance to her family. 
                  Louisa Bender was the eldest child of the physician of that community, the most opulent man in the town, and a very dignified-looking personage. 
                  Augusta Mhring was the eldest daughter of the resident clergyman of that congregation. Amelia and Rosina Schmidt were her mother's sister's children. Their father had the management of the baking establishment of the Settlement. Henrietta Klbing was the child of an aged missionary pair. 
                  Katrina Steinbeck, one of the neatest, trimmest little bodies possible-a busy, bustling creature, and perhaps the most useful of the Sisterhood of that place in a pecuniary point of view-was imported from their Settlement at Zeist in Holland, about four or five years previous, to preside over the millinery business of this Society-also to superintend the embroidery department of her associate maidens. A remarkably homely, quick-tempered little body-but so obliging and kind as to make herself a general favorite. 
                  Mary Ann Schneider's parents were Moravian emigrants. Her father followed the carpenter's trade. He and Brother Rauch, a mason, both excellent men and good workmen, were the architects of the town, and conducted these branches of business well and profitably for the Society. 
                  Susan and Dorothea Stoltz were sisters-poor and hard-working, but very kind-hearted and pious. Both of the Dohlmans lived at home; they were cousins-the father of Sophy being a respectable mechanic and resident of the village, while the mother of Annie was the widow of a missionary. She had two other children, both employed in the missionary service. 
                   
                  Mingling with this company of sister maidens was Elsie Ashley, whose history I here purpose to continue in connection with Rosalie Steinberg and Wilhelmina Leitner. They will claim more of my attention than any of the others, together with their more juvenile friend, Ellinor Waldemar. These were very superior to the rest in many respects, and their histories were especially interesting. The three former were of the respective ages of sixteen, twenty, and twenty-five, when here introduced to the reader, while the latter was between eight and nine. Besides these will be found some notice of Lizzie Brunner, who, although not a Moravian, and of a very different stamp of character, yet, living in the place, and obtaining some notoriety, must not be omitted to be mentioned here. 
                  The Leitners as well as the Brunners were from Philadelphia. These families, as I have mentioned, were old acquaintances. They had formerly been very intimate, but now their association was considerably restricted owing to the conduct of Lizzie, who very much annoyed the good people of the place by her thoughtlessness and wilfulness:-her fondness for fun and mischievous propensities, not being at all consonant with the views and practices then allowable in the Society, they condemned as shocking improprieties. 
                  In truth her present situation was not at all congenial to the lively girl, and sometimes the restraint imposed upon her fretted her considerably-yet generally she contrived to mate, herself appear at least tolerably satisfied. But she made their strictness and excessive prudery the subject of jesting-and though their peculiarities amused her, she did not like the people. She said that they were too starch-stiff and prim to suit her. Lizzie, however, had very little personal communication with any of the settled inhabitants of the place. Indeed she associated with none except the Leitners, and these, as I have stated, she did not visit frequently. 
                
                
                   
                  CHAPTER II. 
                  BISHOP STEINBERG'S family, with the Leitners, and a few of the Sisterhood, were the only ones of the inhabitants capable of speaking the English language fluently. Nearly all the rest of the people were thorough Germans, and not many, besides, could even understand English. But the numerous strangers then sojourning in the place formed sufficient society for themselves-thus preventing that isolation of feeling which otherwise certainly would have been realized. Indeed, counting the soldiers, these far outnumbered the real population of the town. 
                  As for a space Mrs. Tracy and her family not only remained in this Moravian settlement, but, from the results of their connection with the strongest example I have given in illustration of the marriages by lot in the Society, became blended with an interesting part of her history, in consequence they will be frequently mentioned in this sketch. I resume my notice of them from about a fortnight subsequent to the period we last spoke of them, when the uncle and aunt of little Ellinor resigned her to the guardianship of Father and Mother Neisser. 
                  Since that event not either of her friends at the Eagle had seen the child, a circumstance much regretted by them all-aye, indeed considered quite a deprivation, and felt especially such by the invalid, now somewhat improved in health. She missed her little playmate sadly, fretting the more at her absence because she had no other to supply her place. The human mind naturally longs for association-a friend to talk to and sympathize with. In some this disposition is greater than in others-yet, with few rare exceptions, all crave this fellowship with their kind. In fact, we are so constituted that the indulgence of this feeling, and the desire of its being reciprocated, is almost necessary for our happiness, and we are apt to pine for the want of it. Even little Emily Tracy realized the truth of this. She loved to tell her mother of every ache and pain-to be soothed by her fond maternal voice-to have her brother about her speaking in lively tone-cheering her with considerate attentions; and dearly too she had learnt to prize the watchful tenderness and pitying affection of Ellinor Waldemar. 
                  And Mrs. Tracy too-what would have become of her with her affectionate nature in her peculiar situation, had she not found a willing ear to listen, and a congenial heart to share her sorrows? She found these desirable requirements in Elsie Ashley. They were now intimate-these two trouble-stricken ladies-and this companionship proved a great solace and support, as well to the separated wife and anxious mother, as to the isolated orphan girl-the almost widowed bride. 
                  Elsie could truly sympathize with Mrs. Tracy, having drunk like her the cup of affliction and disappointments-besides made similar experiences to herself in watching the dying couch of those she most fondly loved; and at this time her young heart mourned in very wretchedness over blighted prospects, also trembled with painful anticipations of the future-ever fluctuating between anxious hopes and fearful apprehensions. Well for the sweet girl, her hopeful nature and happy disposition inclined her to indulge more in pleasing than in gloomy anticipations-to be cheerful if she could-and even when desponding herself, to endeavor to cast it off and speak encouragingly. She could thus rally Mrs. Tracy's drooping spirits, notwithstanding her own sad condition. 
                  Just then, however, some gleams of sunshine gladdened the hearts of the twain. Elsie's lasted but for a brief period, caused by the coming of her beloved Edward on a hasty visit to her. He told of a recent outbreak in the valley near them, which, though fortunately immediately quelled, present appearances boded to be only temporarily. In anticipation of such a calamity occurring, and their property in jeopardy, his saddlebags were laden to their utmost capacity with money and other valuable effects of the family, which he brought to his cousin for safe keeping. Edward was well, but looked care-worn and anxious; yet he succeeded in keeping up Elsie's spirits, giving her the impression that, although the savages might continue to annoy them by depredations upon their property, they probably were too much in fear of the white settlers to commit any barbarities among them, although they had repeatedly menaced the lives of several of them. Edward concealed from Elsie the real truth of the case, that they themselves were among the persons threatened when he left home-the whole white population of that part of the valley were in the greatest possible state of alarm. He remained with his cousin only a few hours, his departure being expedited at the earnest desire of his father and brother. Yet ere he left, Doctor Tracy arrived to pass at least a part of the summer with his sister and her family, much to the delight of them all. His coming just then was rather unexpected. 
                  But in the midst of their happiness, the Tracys did not forget little Ellinor. Days had passed into weeks since her last visit to the Eagle; neither had the family any other opportunity even of seeing her. This very much annoyed little Emily; but in vain she fretted, Frederick scolded, while Mrs. Tracy and Elsie were lost in conjecture as to the real cause of her absence. But it was not the dear child's fault, as will directly appear. 
                  The Moravian Settlement of my story is located in a beautiful part of the country, in the midst of a lovely, picturesque region, abounding with romantic scenery and pleasant walks; besides, it contained many delightful shady nooks for the weary to stop and rest awhile. 
                  In such a retreat Mrs. Tracy and her family, with Elsie, were gathered the afternoon after the arrival of Doctor Tracy. The uncle had recommended frequent exposure to the mild atmosphere of the pure country air, as especially favorable to the little invalid, and directed her to be brought under its influence as often as circumstances admitted. This advice as yet had been but very little acted upon, because of the number of strangers in and about the place-Mrs. Tracy being too timid to venture much out alone, unprotected by a suitable male attendant. 
                  The uncle selected a spot where the nurse carried the child, carefully placing her in her sick-chair. At the time of which I am now writing, she had thus settled her, reclining beneath the branches of a large forest tree. From thence there was a gentle declivity to the river, a beautiful stream of water, rather shallow, and in some places quite fordable. The opposite side presented a prospect beautifully varied with hill and dale, forest and meadow land. 
                  Mrs. Tracy and Elsie were seated near the child-the former engaged in some light sewing, while the latter, with pencil and paper, employed herself in sketching the lovely landscape before them. The Doctor sat upon a bench between the ladies, with an open book in one hand, while with the other he ever and anon pointed out some of the most striking features of the glorious vision of beauties which surrounded them. 
                  Frederick and the servant were not there, having wandered some distance farther to collect wild flowers for his little sister. 
                  I have said that the health of little Emily improved, but on this day she evidently was quite feeble. The young gentleman and the servant were away rather long. In the meanwhile, the poor child became quite exhausted. She was hungry, faint, restless, and peevish, and continued to fret unceasingly. Presently, steps were heard approaching. Elsie advanced to ascertain who it was, hoping to see Frederick, but instead, directly afterwards she pressed Ellinor Waldemar to her affectionate heart. In a brief space more, the sweet child had bounded into the arms of Mrs. Tracy-then hugged and kissed little Emily-tears mingling with the loving caresses. 
                  It was a moment of unalloyed happiness to all of that little party, but none perhaps enjoyed it as much as that tender orphan. 
                  Ellinor had a little girl with her, but some years her senior, who carried a kettle of strawberries the twain had just gathered. This girl was a recent arrival from Europe. She came with her family from the borders of Switzerland-could neither speak English nor German, but a mixture of very bad French, the patois peculiar to her native province. 
                   
                  I The first moment of this happy meeting over, still Ellinor continued weeping. 
                  "Why do you cry, my dear child?" inquired Mrs. Tracy. 
                  "Indeed I cannot help it," she sobbed out, "I am so glad to see you all again." 
                  "You are a dear little girl, but we were afraid that you loved your new friends so much, that you would forget us." 
                  "Oh-no-no!" replied Ellinor, evidently distressed at this supposition-"you would not say so if you knew how much I do love you, dear Mrs. Tracy, Miss Ashley, and Emily. And Freddie too-where is he?" 
                  "He went away with Jane somewhere, a considerable time ago; we expect him back every moment." 
                  "But why have we not seen you before this, Ellinor?" asked Elsie. 
                  "Well, I don't know-I have asked Mother Neisser very often to let me go to you, but, somehow or other, I have never been able to come-and I felt so very lonesome, too, without you all, since auntie and uncle John went away." 
                  The child here first perceived the Doctor. Mrs. Tracy then presented her to him as Ellinor Waldemar, the particular friend of Emily-the little favorite of all the family. 
                  "And you must let me love you too, my sweet little girl," said he-saying which he drew her gently towards him, and kissed her. 
                  "Oh, I am so hungry," murmured the sick child plaintively-Ellinor heard her. 
                  "Then I am the more glad that I am here," said she. "See! I have got something so very nice for you." Hereupon she ran to her attendant and got the strawberries. Next she opened the kettle, and filling the cover she passed it around among her friends. "Dear Mrs. Tracy-dear Miss Ashley, and Doctor, please take some, and let Emily have plenty of them." They all took a few. "See here! how many I have got, so pray take as many more as you want." 
                  "You are a dear, generous child, Ellinor," said Mrs. Tracy, fondly kissing her, "but we cannot allow ourselves to rob you." 
                  "But you won't," she replied, "for I can have as many more as I choose to pick." 
                  "Indeed! where did you get them?" inquired Elsie. 
                  "Why, Susel and I gathered them in yonder field a little while ago." 
                  "But surely for yourselves and Mother Neisser." 
                  "Why-yes"-she answered with a little hesitation. 
                  "Then what think you she will say? Perhaps she may be displeased." 
                  "Oh-no! I guess not-I do not believe that she will care at all, for it cannot make any difference, if we only get enough by supper-time. So please take some more--do-please." 
                  All scruples being now removed, they gladly accepted the fruit. At this juncture Frederick and the servant returned laden with flowers, and quite a variety of beautiful mosses. The former was delighted to see Ellinor-but in the midst of shaking of hands and numerous inquiries, his mother interrupted him, to hurry him away to the Eagle with the servant, to procure some bread and butter, sugar, milk, saucers and spoons. 
                  Ellinor remained with the party until their return. In the interval, many questions were asked the child concerning her present situation. Yet though she appeared satisfied, if not contented with it, both ladies fancied they perceived a little cloud resting upon her hitherto calm brow-they thought she spoke under some restraint, not quite in her natural joyous tones-and with a cautiousness unusual to her. 
                  The artless and affectionate manner of this interesting young orphan girl, which from their first acquaintance so completely charmed the Tracys and Elsie, was destined to add a bright link to the chain of circumstances connecting them with this Settlement. It fettered their inclinations, and caused them all the more willingly to continue to tarry in the place. With each and all the party, she became an especial favorite. But doubtless the fact of her devotedness and affectionate attentions to her afflicted daughter, strengthened the attachment of Mrs. Tracy, and added to the claim she felt she had upon her heart. Besides, as I mentioned, she was the only juvenile associate her children had now in the place. No marvel, then, that they were loath to part with her. 
                  Yet she promised soon to see them again; then, after a fond and oft repeated farewell, away she hied to the strawberry patch, followed by Susel, to gather another picking for Mother Neisser's supper table. 
                  As she wended her way, the heart of the gentle girl throbbed with pulsations of pleasurable sensations. In truth, she felt completely happy. Perhaps, as coming events often cast their shadows before, she may have experienced some undefined feelings of the prospective happiness connected with the delightful group of friends she had just left. These may even then have scattered a pleasant influence upon the pathway of this interesting girl. But be that as it may, all was now perfect sunshine within. She tripped merrily along-soon reached the field-there, so industriously assisted Susel, that they accomplished their task within the necessary period of time. 
                  The very next day after this, Ellinor and her friends had a similar meeting-and thus several more. A week of almost daily intercourse hereupon followed-always underneath the branches of that noble forest tree, with that beautiful stream gliding so peacefully before them-Susel continuing invariably to accompany her. 
                  At length one day it happened the girl could not be spared for the purpose, Mother Neisser having too many occupations for her at home. Hence Ellinor feared being disappointed in seeing her friends. But Mother Neisser was very fond of fruit-of strawberries in particular-and she very much craved to have a supply for her evening meal. 
                  "Oh, let me go by myself and gather you some," said she coaxingly. She readily obtained permission-then soon equipped herself for the business. 
                  Ellinor had proceeded but a few steps on her way ere she espied Frederick Tracy with the servant a short distance before her. In a moment more they turned around, and, recognizing her, stopped-next hastened to meet her. For a space they talked together, when the twain concluded to join her in the picking and have a regular fruit frolic. Yet, before they started, Ellinor must see the rest of the family, who cordially welcomed her. The servant in the meanwhile went to the inn for a basket, etc. When she returned, the trio started forth on their expedition. 
                  They found most of the strawberries gone-but after a considerable space obtained a sufficiency. This done, they hurried back to their expecting friends, where they remained together for an hour or more-very happily enjoying themselves. They took no note of time until they perceived the sun fast approaching the west. Then Ellinor hastened homeward. She went rapidly along, and came merrily singing into Mother Neisser's kitchen, with her store of strawberries, happiness beaming in her young, sweet, innocent face. She met the old lady at the door looking anxiously. 
                  "Where did you stay so long, my child?" she inquired. 
                  Ellinor directly, candidly, and frankly told her, together with all the little incidents which had occurred, and what a pleasant time she had in consequence. Hereupon the mother looked grave. The child in her happiness did not notice this, but continued in a coaxing tone- 
                  "They want me to spend the day with them soon. May I go, dear mother?" 
                  "We will talk about that another time," replied the old lady-"but you stayed away a great while, and you do not know who has since arrived here to see you." 
                  "Who-who?" asked Ellinor, looking hastily around. She quickly espied her uncle John. In a moment more he had caught her up-tenderly embraced, her-and was holding her tightly in his arms. 
                  "We were very anxious to hear about you-if you were well and happy, and how you are doing, my dear little Ellie," said her uncle, "and I could not be satisfied without judging for myself self; so I have come here expressly to see you-to tell you how dearly we all still love you. I am glad to find you looking so hearty, and to hear that you are such a good little girl. I hope you really are well and perfectly contented?" 
                  "Oh yes dear, uncle John-but then I do want sometimes so very much to see you all-and have Delia, Willie, and dear little Johnny and Eddie to play with me." 
                  The uncle sighed-dashed a tear from his eye; then opening a parcel- 
                  "See here what I have brought you, a nice cake which aunt Annie made on purpose for you." 
                  "Dear auntie," said the child, "how is she? and aunt Margaret, and all the rest of them?" 
                  "Not any of us are getting along very well now. Indeed I fear the place is rather unhealthy; for all of the family have been more or less sick most of the time since we went away from here. But I am glad I shall be able to give such a good account of you, dear." 
                  The uncle and niece passed the remainder of the evening together. The next morning he left. Previous to this, however, Bishop Steinberg and he had a long conversation in reference to the child-the result of which will appear in a succeeding chapter. 
                
                
                  CHAPTER III. 
                  ELSIE ASHLEY had now resided in this Moravian Settlement nearly eight months. During this interval, she not only renewed her acquaintance with the Steinbergs and Leitners, but besides, had formed that of every other individual of the Society who could either speak or understand English. Among these, as I have mentioned, were a few of the Sisterhood. 
                  In addition to this, she was in the constant habit of frequenting their public religious services-had been at many of their various festivals, and observed quite a number of their peculiarities liarities; but, notwithstanding, as yet had obtained but very little reliable information concerning the real history of the people. This ignorance was not from want of interest or curiosity upon the subject. On the contrary, the longer she lived among the Moravians, the more desirous she became to be correctly informed about them. But she had not had the proper opportunity of gratifying herself in this respect-or rather she did not use the right means to obtain it. 
                  She continued, however, to observe them closely, and found much about them both new and strange to claim her attention; thus for a space she kept her mind very much occupied. 
                  The arrangements of the different ages and sexes into divisions or bands, as they were called, then universally practised throughout the Society; the sittings of each of these in separate rows by themselves; the uniform dress of the Sisterhood, so quaint and odd in appearance-their simple ribbon, badges of their condition, designating by their color whether the wearer was a maiden, wife, or widow; the celebration of their distinctive festivals for these various classes and relations in life, with other kindred peculiarities,-all these excited her attention, and made her curious to become further acquainted concerning them. 
                  It is a marvel that she did not then make some inquiries of Rosalie Steinberg. And, in truth, Elsie thought of doing so, but hesitated from scruples of delicacy. Perhaps she thought this might not be agreeable to her friend, and that in consequence it would place her in an embarrassing position. Yet, be that as it may, she refrained from questioning her in reference to it. 
                  There was one person, however, ready to enlighten her upon the subject-that, too, gratuitously. This was Lizzie Brunner. She appeared to have a wonderful knowledge of the people, and abounded in anecdotes of them. She professed to be well informed concerning their history, and to be able to satisfy her queries about their various peculiar customs, usages, and regulations; but she really knew very little of them, the greater part of her knowledge being fancied, the production of her own fertile brain, and many of them too absurd and ridiculous to be believed at all-and Elsie did not credit them. 
                  I have stated that the Brunners were in private lodgings. They had found accommodations at the house of a worthy, simple-minded couple, who lived in the main street, close to the Society's store, and in the near neighborhood of the Gemein Haus. 
                  They were not the only boarders, having in addition a middle-aged gentleman with his wife, both very quiet and orderly people, and an elderly widow. These, together with one female domestic, constituted the rest of their family. 
                  This latter individual was a spinster, a Welch woman-a hardworking, faithful creature, whose devotion to her mistress was only excelled by that she rendered to her Maker, through the belief and practices of her dear church. She had been brought up in the Society, and became exceedingly attached to its rites, ceremonies, and ecclesiastical rule. In short, she was a pure specimen of primitive Moravianism, in its original simplicity of one hundred and twenty years ago. 
                  This truly pious maiden of all work was short, stout-built, remarkably homely-featured-had not much mental capacity-entirely uneducated and ignorant-guileless and good-tempered withal. Her name was Winnifred Davis, but she generally went by the cognomen of Sister Winny. She was somewhere near forty years of age-had lived in the Settlement about half her life, always in a subordinate situation; yet, nevertheless, ever treated as an equal in the family which she served. This custom then prevailed in the Society-no one being allowed to consider another inferior to them on account of filling an humble position in life. As this worthy woman figures somewhat in my present narration, I here introduce her to my readers. 
                  It will be seen that Lizzie Brunner was the only young person in this house. Not that the good couple with whom she lived were childless: they had several children, but all were living elsewhere, and married except one son; he was still single, and one of the teachers of the Society in a Settlement some thirty or forty miles distant. So Lizzie had no companion of her own age in the family. Besides this, she had scarcely a youthful associate in the village. Elsie visited her, but only occasionally. 
                  She was too volatile for Elsie-too heedless and thoughtless in expression and manner; but yet she did not condemn her conduct as some of the good people of the place did. She soon perceived that she was thoroughly spoiled by indulgence, but could not discover that she did any act intentionally, which might be considered either very wicked or immoral, and maintained that all her errors, in a great degree, were to be attributed to her defective education. Indeed, she felt disposed to pity more than to blame her, especially because she had such a mother. Of her, Elsie had a very unfavorable opinion, and, in fact, she positively disliked her. 
                  Mrs. Brunner was so arrogant, captious, and ill-natured, that she made herself excessively disagreeable. Always scolding about somebody or something, she rendered every one around her as uncomfortable as possible. That she and her daughter received no attention in the place, and particularly that Mrs. Leitner's family now scarcely ever visited them, annoyed her greatly. The fact was, that both mother and daughter were becoming more and more unpopular throughout the Settlement. 
                  In truth, the Moravians highly disapproved of the whole of their conduct-being so contrary to their rigid rules, they were perfectly disgusted. In consequence, they positively forbade any intimacy between Lizzie and the young people belonging to them. This was the reason why the Leitners so seldom visited them. 
                  But Lizzie Brunner did not allow this circumstance to vex her. She had too much pride for this, and by this powerful ally she contrived to restore her mother to tolerable good humor upon the subject. She represented to her their own importance-how vastly superior they were altogether to these simple-minded Moravians. 
                  "And you may depend upon it," continued she, "the reason of their unfriendliness, their unsociability, is the consciousness of their inferiority to, us, and therefore they do not presume to be more familiar." 
                  "They act wisely, then," was the reply. "I really believe that you are right, and I am glad they are so humble. But the Leitners should not entertain such an opinion, for they surely are very respectable, and quite our equals." 
                  Saying this, she bundled herself away to their house to inform this worthy family of their elevated position in her estimation. Yet, notwithstanding, they were as coldly polite and reserved as before, and did not afterwards increase their intimacy with herself and daughter. 
                  Lizzie meanwhile enjoyed herself as much as she could under the circumstances. The want of companions made her neither lonesome nor discontented as long as she had something else to supply their place. She was too thoroughly engrossed with self-too much accustomed to create her own pleasurable excitements, to feel the loss of association, as she otherwise would have done. And as long as her mirthful and mischief-loving disposition supplied her with amusement, she could be pleased and satisfied. Lizzie, being naturally very inquisitive, and in her present situation among a people abounding in peculiarities, had enough to excite her incessant surprise. She soon became excessively curious, and having nothing else to do, no person with whom to while the time away, she busied herself in taking note of them for the purpose of ridicule. Yet, she found herself at a loss to whom to apply for the materials of her desired information. She tried Sister Rosalie, but without any success; next, she asked her hostess, but she was not the least communicative upon the subject; afterwards she made some inquiries of Mrs. Leitner, with no more satisfactory result. 
                  Nothing daunted by these failures, she hit upon another expedient to accomplish her purpose, which she deemed certainly would succeed. She resolved to assume a religious character-then join the Society. Yes, the cravings of her nature must be gratified, even though Christianity should have to blush as she presented herself at the shrine of the most devoted of her votaries; and she, the wild, reckless, and mischievous Lizzie Brunner, put on the cloak of piety, and, in the simple garb of their primitive times, appeared as a serious, demure, and staid Moravian Sister. 
                  Immediately upon forming this resolution, her whole deportment altered-a complete metamorphosis took place. Lizzie looked thoughtful, and sometimes rather melancholy-was silent, and appeared at times quite abstracted-attended church regularly for a few weeks-then humbly requested permission to become a member of the community. 
                  This caused her to be visited by some of the devout of her sex, also by Bishop Steinberg, who talked and prayed with the young hypocrite. A couple of months after, she desired confirmation, but the "lot" did not favor her application, which apparently very much pained her; yet she adopted in part the dress of the Sisterhood, and continued to behave remarkably well. 
                  Rosalie now more frequently visited her; so did her good father. Both had keen penetration. They closely observed Lizzie. The artful girl, being fully aware of this circumstance, was exceedingly guarded, in consequence, in her conduct, wearing before them her mask astonishingly well. Although she still conducted herself unexceptionably, and quite consistently with her assumed character, both the Bishop and his daughter suspected her motives, neither of them having sufficient confidence in the sincerity of her professions to satisfy the queries she made concerning some of the most important of the peculiar regulations of the Society. 
                  Thus Lizzie was again baffled in her expectations, yet determined as ever in her purpose. 
                  While all these events were transpiring, she had professed quite a friendship for her hostess and Sister Winny, with both of whom she was now in high favor. Towards the latter she manifested in particular a great regard and kindly interest, besides acting generously towards her. 
                   
                  Still bent upon her object, and resolved to continue to persevere in accomplishing it, Lizzie was considering what artifice she should next make use of to enable her to succeed, when it so happened she heard Sister Winny in an adjoining apartment. The pious Moravian maiden was wont to sing or pray while engaged at work. She was then singing, though in rather unharmonious notes, and in very particular metre and style, what appeared to be a stanza or verse of some hymn. 
                  Lizzie listened a moment or two, when the thought suggested itself to her mind, that perhaps this humble, unlettered, insignificant being, might be rendered subservient to her wishes. Following this idea, directly thereupon she entered the room where Sister Winny was-expressed the greatest pleasure in her singing-complimented her on her voice-next requested her to repeat the strain, because it afforded her so much delight, and begged to have some more of them. 
                  The simple-minded woman, much flattered by this notice of her vocal powers, never before pronounced melodious, readily consented. She sang, and when tired, recited several hymns. 
                  It is proper to remark here, that in the earliest ages of the modern church of the Moravians, they introduced among them a variety of the strangest hymns possible. Some of these were remarkably quaint and singular, both in style and expression-others very figurative and obscure in meaning-many of them, indeed, were so much so, as to be perfectly unintelligible to the present reader. A portion of these, as well as of the others, were nothing but doggerel rhyme. Yet all, doubtless, were the productions of good pious people, and as such they should be regarded, though they will ever have a tendency to excite a smile, even upon the face of gravity itself. 
                  No marvel, then, that the specimens Sister Winny gave, provoked the laughter of Lizzie Brunner-they being some of the most comic versifications of primitive Moravian feeling. But she had the art to conceal their effect in a great degree from the good woman, by putting her handkerchief before her face. Lizzie, commanded her risibles with great difficulty. 
                   
                  "How beautiful!" exclaimed she, as Sister Winny concluded, wiping her eyes as she spoke; "it is really quite affecting. How very interesting these hymns are-and your peculiarities, too, I dare say are equally so-Do tell me all about them, dear Sister Winny, won't you?" at the same time rising and leaving the room-adding, as she left, "I will be back directly." 
                  Lizzie returned after a brief space, with a piece of pink ribbon in her hand, which she presented to the unsuspecting Moravian sister to put, she said, in her "Sunday go-to-meeting cap." 
                  "I thank ye, my child," she gratefully replied; "I do not believe but that, after all, ye are better than they think ye to be-young folks will be young folks-apt to be lively and foolish unless they be brought up in the dear Brethren's congregation-and then they bees all old men and old women." 
                  "But," answered Lizzie, "you know I am trying to be very good, and I do hope by and by I will." Lizzie spoke with such apparent sincerity, the worthy woman could not doubt her. 
                  "God bless the poor child!" she exclaimed, regarding Lizzie with affectionate interest. 
                  "But good, kind Sister Winny, you will indeed tell me of all these queer customs you have in your church." 
                  "I will, my child-but ye must not hurry me too much. These blessed practices of ours must be spoken of with great reverence and respect, ye know. I cannot stop now in my work to acquaint ye, but I will begin when I have time to sit down to my knitting." 
                  And thus this conversation ended, Lizzie being well pleased with the result. 
                
                
                  CHAPTER IV. 
                  WE return again to our little favorite, Ellinor Waldemar. The morning after her uncle left, she was rather sad-but Elsie and Frederick came to see her, which greatly enlivened her. Mother Neisser did not make her appearance throughout the whole of their stay-though Elsie asked repeatedly for her. 
                  In truth the old lady now found herself in rather a disagreeable able quandary. Though naturally kind-hearted, and disposed to be very indulgent to the child of her adoption, yet, nevertheless, she was a Moravian, and possessed all the peculiar features of character which so prominently distinguished them in those days. Both herself and husband belonged to the pure, genuine stock of the primitive Moravians. 
                  The old gentleman's father was one of the original settlers of Herrnhut, and suffered as much as any of his brethren from papal tyranny and persecution, previous to his emigration from Moravia. 
                  He made several attempts to leave his native land ere he succeeded-and once, on being retaken, was thrown into a loathsome dungeon, and so long deprived of air and nourishment as nearly to cost him his life. Then the torture was applied, and his feet put in the stocks-and again the sentence had gone forth, that he was to die at the stake; but in each of these instances he was preserved through a wonderful interposition of Providence. 
                  A portion of Mother Neisser's family were the companions of this poor exile's flight when he escaped from the dungeon, torture, and the stake. All these circumstances combined perhaps had rivetted the fetters which bound these twain of their descend ants in the matrimonial yoke. 
                  Both of this worthy pair were truly excellent persons-possessing, in a great degree, the principal features of character then common in all the Settlements of their Society-were simple in manners, affectionate, kind-hearted, yet, like many of their denomination of that day, had exceedingly contracted views in general, which cannot disparage them in the estimation retired any sensible individual; it being a natural result of their  way of living-total seclusion from the world at large, and the peculiar associations and influences by which they were constantly surrounded. In truth, it is very likely that both were entirely ignorant of this mundane sphere without the pale of the dear Brethren's Unity. 
                  I question much if either of them, during all the period of their sojourn upon it, had ever left the borders of their people, even to take a glimpse beyond. They had, however, their impressions of it, which fastened the convictions on their minds of its being a vast theatre for every kind of wickedness, where Satan reigned and his followers triumphed. Hence they more highly esteemed the privileges they were enjoying in being separate from this mighty throng of evil-doers, and preserved from their fascinating, dangerous, seductive temptation in being securely sheltered there-in the Christian Ark built by the fathers of their Church for themselves and their children. 
                  These good people heartily subscribed to every regulation and observance established in their beloved Zion. They revered and strenuously supported them both by precept and example. In fact, they were among that class of individuals in the Society who almost considered the whole ecclesiastical constitution of their church as being dictated by heavenly wisdom-while some of the sermons and hymns composed at about the same time, notwithstanding the great defects in their composition, they regarded as being written under inspiration. Such were the provisional parents of Ellinor Waldemar. 
                  Entertaining these sentiments and prepossessions, the Mother was strongly prejudiced against the stranger friends of her adopted daughter. She regarded them with suspicion and distrust, fearful they might give injurious impressions to her young mind by filing it with worldliness and vanity. Besides, the old lady was somewhat jealous of them, lest they should obtain a greater share of the affections of that fond, loving being. For these reasons she secretly resolved to put a stop to the intimacy between them. Then the question arose in her mind, how best to accomplish this purpose. Little Ellinor had so wound herself around her childless heart to make it difficult to resist her affectionate pleadings-her coaxing requests. Nevertheless it became her duty, she argued, for they might lead her beloved one astray. So she gathered together the stern parts of her nature to nerve herself to do it-and how she succeeded will presently appear. 
                  The same day of which I have been writing, Bishop Steinberg called at the Neissers'. He came purposely to see them in reference to little Ellinor. Yet ere he could enter upon the purport of his visit, Mother Neisser commenced speaking to him of the intimacy subsisting between the child and the strangers at the Eagle-told of the wish they had expressed to have her visit them-together with the child's earnest desire to do so. 
                  The old lady appeared very much troubled in consequence, and asked his advice about the matter. She was evidently very undecided how to act, and desired his opinion concerning the propriety of this intercourse. She herself thought it best to prohibit it altogether in the future, and suggested whether it would not be advisable, as a preliminary step, to stop her intimacy with the Ashley, as she called Elsie. 
                  The good Bishop's judgment on the subject did not coincide with hers. This excellent man was a true Moravian, one of their very best men, though not a strenuous supporter of some of the rigid rules of the church. He had seen more of life in the great world than most of his brethren; consequently his views and sentiments of human nature were not so theoretical, confined, and speculative as theirs. He was liberal-minded, noble-hearted, sensible, and generally very judicious. 
                  Bishop Steinberg entertained a high regard for Elsie-and a very favorable impression of Mrs. Tracy. The little girls had no other playmates, and he thought, with their dispositions and situated as they were, no harm could possibly result from the association. Besides, he believed that Elsie could be of essential advantage to their interesting young protege; he therefore advocated allowing the continuance of their intimacy. 
                  The old lady then reminded the Bishop of the boy; mentioning the fact, that Ellinor of course would constantly be brought m his company; in addition, were not all these strangers staying at the public house? 
                  These reasons were powerful, and proved irresistible arguments in favor of her objections-stumbling-blocks of difficulty which the worthy Bishop could not set aside. 
                  But all were now seeking private lodgings-besides, Mrs. Tracy intended to send Frederick away somewhere to school. With these prospective arrangements before them, the Bishop recommended until these events occurred, Ellinor should not be permitted to visit them. 
                  "But she need not go to the tavern-she may meet them elsewhere." 
                  "Certainly, my dear Sister, and what then?" 
                  "Why, you forget the boy," she anxiously answered. 
                  "True-true. Well, Mother Neisser, suppose we forbid her from having any further communication at all with the family at the present. 
                  The old lady was not yet perfectly satisfied, though she seemed relieved in mind. 
                  "I came here this afternoon," said the Bishop, "particularly on account of the child. It is now a settled matter she is to remain with us, and consequently will henceforth be considered as belonging to our congregation. I have just ascertained from her uncle the fact of her never being christened. This duty, therefore, is yet to be performed, and I wish it soon to be attended to. But this ordinance cannot be administered to her as an infant, because she is old enough to understand something of the nature of the rite. For this reason she is to be instructed and prepared for it. And as Brother Mhring, the minister of our congregation here, cannot speak English, my daughter Rosalie and I will do what is necessary-and I wish you would tell the child of this, also that we mean to-morrow to talk with her upon the subject." 
                  While this conversation occurred, little Ellinor was perched in a cherry-tree, filling a basket with the fruit. Presently she cast her eyes in the direction of the burying-ground, and saw her friend Elsie walking towards her. Immediately she called Out her name. Elsie, hearing her voice, looked up and discovered her; whereupon the child scrambled down the tree, and soon the twain were together in Mother Neisser's kitchen. Elsie came to request the old lady to let Ellinor return with her to spend the afternoon. 
                   
                  The little girl, perfectly delighted, hastened with her to the house. On the threshold of the sitting-room they met Bishop Steinberg just leaving. 
                  Elsie waited not for his departure to proffer her request. Mother Neisser made no reply, but looked at the Bishop to answer for her. He hesitated a moment-then very decidedly declined granting the permission. But, perceiving the countenances of both clouded with disappointment, and the big tears gathering in the eyes of Ellinor, he kindly observed he was sorry to see them so much grieved, giving Elsie as an objection the circumstance of her residing at the Tavern, this being a forbidden place to their young people. Then, turning to Ellinor, he tenderly said: 
                  "How are you, my dear child? Are you well? I hope every thing is going on in a blessing with you. I am glad to hear such a good account of you from Mother Neisser. God bless you! and make you a blessing in the dear Brethren's church." 
                  This was very much the usual style of language used in those days by the ministers and elders of the Society, when speaking to any of the juveniles of their charge. Ellinor looked at him with tearful eyes, vainly endeavoring to reply to his queries, but, from a feeling of reverential awe and respect, she could not; then, with a "Peace be with you," followed by a cordial pressure of the hand of each, he left the house. 
                  Elsie continued for some time longer with Ellinor. Again the child was all life and animation, forgetting her disappointment in the pleasures of present happiness. She showed her friend how she was learning to spin-offered to teach her; then amused both Elsie and the old lady by her awkwardness at it, till, at length, the latter, overcome by her childish humor, laughed heartily. 
                  By and by Elsie rose to leave, when the child craved the ear of Mother Neisser for a few moments in private. They withdrew together to the adjoining room, where words of entreaty were heard, succeeded by repeated thanks and kisses-next, Elsie was pressed to stay to supper-afterwards Ellinor accompanied panied her to the bottom of the garden, followed by Susel's father with a basket of cherries and ripe currants, which the child had coaxed from the old lady as a present to little Emily. 
                  They were, however, scarcely gone, ere Mother Neisser felt dissatisfied and vexed with herself, In truth, she could not withstand the pleadings of Ellinor. They proved irresistible. In fact, the little girl so quickly succeeded in obtaining the favors she asked, that the old lady really tad not the opportunity of reflecting upon what she granted. Yet, directly afterwards, she regretted it; and, ashamed of her want of firmness, she immediately determined to be more decided in the future. In consequence, when Ellinor returned to the house, a revolution seemed to have taken place in her whole nature. She had schooled her wavering mind, and resolved upon her course of action. Galling the child to her, she prohibited her in the future from going to the Tavern without her express permission, threatening to punish her if she did. 
                  "Why not!" was the inquiry. 
                  "It is not proper in you to ask me this question," she replied. The little girl burst into tears. "You heard one of the reasons from the Bishop," she added. 
                  "Not even to see dear Miss Ashley and little Emily?" 
                  "No!-not even to see them." 
                  "Then can I never visit them again?" she exclaimed, sobbing bitterly. 
                  "No-I repeat-you are never to go there again, unless absolutely necessary, or I send you." 
                  "But, why not?" 
                  "I have told you that you have no right to ask, therefore say no more about it," she answered, looking rather sternly. 
                  Ellinor, both astonished and terrified at this unexpected change of conduct in her hitherto kind and indulgent friend, said nothing more, but quietly retreated into the farthest corner of the room, distressed and unhappy. The child did not understand all intended by the interdict given, but yet she comprehended sufficient to know that she could not see her friends as heretofore, which troubled her greatly. She wondered what had occurred, so to alter the mood of the old lady; but she durst not question her any further concerning it. 
                  The little girl, unconscious to herself, had now entered upon her course of discipline. Her young, tender nature was beginning to pass through the ordeal of trials necessary to its allotted destiny. And thus she commenced it. 
                  It was the first time in her brief life that she had been addressed in the tones of harshness, or had threatening language used to her-and it sank deep into her little heart. 
                  Ellinor believed the Mother to be very angry with her-yet could not conjecture her offence. Long she sat in that lone spot, deeply distressed, ever and anon looking anxiously towards the old lady, hoping to hear some kind word from her-Mother Neisser meanwhile very busy engaged, and apparently not noticing the child, who at length felt so uncomfortable that she asked permission to retire, and went to her little dormitory with very depressed feelings, where she sobbed herself to sleep. 
                  Nor was the old lady happy-though perfectly satisfied that she had done right. She was only pursuing the course of discipline then usual in the Society; for the Moravians adopted very strict rules and regulations in the government of their children-who from infancy were trained implicitly to follow them. And in their earnest desire to be altogether truly a religious people, they prohibited every thought and action as sinful, which had not a sanctifying influence-hence permitted no amusements except in connection with their church festivals and birthdays, when gayety was tempered by religious feeling? and devotional exercises. Even while engaged in their allowed recreations, their harmless plays, whether walking or sitting, their little voices were frequently heard lisping their hymns, or raising them in prayer. 
                  In truth, their whole method of training the youthful mind, even from that tender age, was calculated to stop the gush of native joyousness of feeling-the sprightliness and sportiveness of childhood; in fact, to crush all the natural sensibilities of the human heart,-I mean the sensual, earthly part of it-cultivating instead altogether the spiritual and divine portions of their being. Thus their children were generally remarkably quiet, thoughtful, and serious. Many of them were as grave as their elders, presenting the appearance of countenances far more mature than their years-of having old heads upon young shoulders. These truly devoted and excellent people were, doubtless, influenced by their high religious character, their ardent piety and fervent zeal, in adopting their extraordinary, unnatural, and severe discipline in their church-and far be it for me to speak disrespectfully upon the subject. Yet they must pardon me when I say, that I believe some of their regulations were as absurd and oppressive as any introduced among the most pious zealots of modern times-though, for the greater part of a century, they were all scrupulously and rigidly observed by these disciples and descendants of the Bohemian and Moravian exiles. 
                  As Ellinor Waldemar, from early childhood, lived among the Moravians-was adopted into their Society-and from her orphanage came immediately under their control, consequently entirely subject to the discipline of their church, I mention some of its peculiarities in connection with her history; hence the reader can observe the effect they had upon her tender and impressible nature. Yet ere this could be done, it will be seen that a great change came over the very spirit of her young being-a perfect metamorphosis took place. Her will, thoughts, inclinations, purposes, and motives of action were alike trammelled. All gayety of heart had to be checked-the effervescence of youthful feeling subdued-her warm affections and sensibilities to be put under control, and her mind, as it were, formed anew-cast into the mould of pure Moravianism. Thus much of the beautiful naturalness of her character was gone-all altered save her affectionate disposition-her unselfish, generous, ingenuous nature. 
                  How all this was accomplished will be seen as our story progresses. 
                  We left the sweet child in the privacy of her own little chamber, where, for a space, she still continued to weep, and felt very unhappy. But inexperienced childhood seldom dwells for any considerable time upon unpleasant circumstances, neither is it apt to indulge in disagreeable anticipations. Hence, though Ellinor keenly felt this trouble, and still remembered the whole cause of it, slumber soon rested upon her eyelids; and ere she became aware of it, found herself in the land of forgetfulness and dreams, and slept soundly until the morning sun peeped into her windows and awakened her. Yet scarcely had she perfectly roused, ere her memory brought back the painful conversation of the preceding evening. 
                  It made her feel embarrassed and timid with regard to the Mother, but she was no longer sad. Indeed, it would have been quite unnatural for one of her joyous and sanguine temperament long to continue so. Besides, children are not wont to brood over disagreeable recollections, and rarely look into the future, except to see brightness. 
                  Both of her adopted parents met her at the foot of the stairs, and very kindly accosted her. The mother, in particular, was very friendly. All the child's troubles, consequently, were now banished from remembrance, and she sat herself down at the breakfast-table with an unclouded mind and cheerful countenance. Mother Neisser directly thereupon informed her of the purport of the Bishop's visit on the preceding afternoon, also of his intention, as well as of his daughter, to see her on that day upon the subject. 
                
                
                  CHAPTER V. 
                  DIRECTLY after the usual children's meeting, the same morning, both the Bishop and Sister Rosalie paid their expected visit to the little Ellinor. 
                  "You have never been baptized, I am told, my dear child," said the Bishop; "you have therefore no share in the covenant of promises, and are still without the pale of the Christian Church. And do you not, my dear, desire to be entitled to these precious promises of our Saviour-to be received in his flock, as one of the precious lambkins of his fold-to feed in his pasture, and to be led and cared for by the good Shepherd of Zion?" 
                  The little girl looked up timidly into the face of the venerable man, but said nothing. He repeated the question, gently stroking her head. The child raised her eyes again to his revered countenance. She had all the strong, respectful feeling natural to humanity, especially in childhood, for conscious superiority-for preeminent goodness. She was awed by his manner, and betrayed considerable agitation. 
                  "You wish to belong to the Saviour, do you not, my dear child?" 
                  "Oh, yes, sir," she softly murmured, as she placed her little hand into that of the Bishop. 
                  "I thought so, my dear; and now I hold your hand as a pledge that from henceforth you will belong to our dear Lord and his people. Do you understand what I mean, my child?" 
                  Ellinor did not fully comprehend all he said, which the good Bishop perceiving, remarked: 
                  "I shall have to speak much more to you relative to this matter, my child; but I will say nothing more at present, but leave you to my daughter, Sister Rosalie, and I wish you to listen with attention to her. She will explain to you, in a simple manner, the nature of the blessed ordinance you are to receive-to prepare your young heart for a proper participation of it, so that it may prove a blessing to you." 
                  Ellinor was now given a course of religious instruction, principally by Sister Rosalie, a lady well calculated for the purpose-no one in the Settlement, perhaps, being better qualified for such an undertaking. 
                  When duly prepared, at a specified time the elderess of the little girls took Ellinor by the hand, led her into the church, and presented her for baptism. She was attired in simple white, and the ordinance took place before the whole congregation. 
                  Two godfathers and three godmothers were appointed for the occasion:-the Bishop, his daughter-a widowed sister of the place-together with Bishop Von Watterville and his wife. The two latter, not being in the country, were represented by proxy. All these individuals were seated on two benches facing the congregation-each sex on their appointed side of the church. 
                  It was customary in these times of the Society, at the baptism of any except infants, to give the recipient of the rite an additional calling name to the one they had previously borne. This they denominated their Christian name. Consequently, on her baptism the little girl had another bestowed upon her. They gave her the name of Benigna-in compliment to the lady of Bishop Von Watterville, one of her chosen sponsors. And from this period, although the child still retained the name of Ellinor, she was no longer called so by the Society, but altogether known and spoken of by them as Benigna; therefore we shall thus designate her in the future. 
                  Immediately subsequent to this interesting event, the Society placed Benigna under the religious teaching and guidance of the widowed sister whom I mentioned as being one of her godmothers. 
                  They taught the child to regard this venerable lady as her spiritual mother-her special adviser and counsellor-to watch over her with godly jealousy-she feeding this lamb of the flock of Christ with heavenly manna-directing her inexperienced steps aright-onward and upward-impressing lessons of heavenly teachings upon her pure and innocent heart-leading her gently to the fountain of living waters-therebathing her young spirit in its saving stream-thus striving to prepare her to become a faithful handmaid of the Lord on earth, and afterwards for a blessed inheritance of his kingdom in heaven. 
                  Such were some of the responsibilities of this office; but because of the inability of this sister to speak English, and Benigna as yet but imperfectly understood the German language, it prevented her directly entering entirely upon the duties of her charge. Indeed all she at present could do, was occasionally to visit her, and by kindly notice and manner endeavor to gain the child's confidence and affection-question Mother Neisser concerning her, and advise with the old lady upon the proper course of conduct to be adopted towards her. 
                  But this sister being inefficient, good Bishop Steinberg and Sister Rosalie, also her god-parents, would divide the duty with her-thus enabling both these excellent persons, especially the latter, immediately to obtain an influence upon the little girl. 
                  During the progress of these arrangements, Benigna did not see any of her Mends at the Eagle except Elsie Ashley, and she but once, and then only for a few moments. But they became acquainted with the whole circumstances of the case front} the Bishop himself. They were all deeply interested, and had many questions to ask upon the subject. 
                  "But why change her name? surely Ellinor is quite as much a Christian one as Benigna. Indeed I have never heard it before," said Elsie. "Pray is it a Moravian appellative?" 
                  "Oh, no," answered the Bishop-"not exclusively so, by any means; though it is a very common one with us, as are all the names of the different members of Count Zinzendorf's family. But I think," continued he, "it is very significantly applicable to our young sister. It is derived from the same word as benignity-in Latin, benignitas-from bene and gigno, which signifies the quality or disposition for producing good. It is used as synonymous with benevolence, kindness, and tenderness. Now, in my judgment, young as she is, this dear child possesses all these amiable qualities of character in a very great degree, and I do earnestly hope and pray that she may indeed be a blessing, a chosen instrument of much good among us." 
                  The day succeeding her baptism, Benigna Waldemar went by invitation to the Sisters' House, to take the vesper meal with her elderess. Mother Neisser accompanied her. When there, they took her into many of the numerous apartments of the establishment-sitting-rooms-work-rooms-the general refectory-dormitories-sick-room, and the chapel. The latter was very plainly furnished with backless benches, as seats for the Sisterhood-a common table, with little or no drapery about it, and a chair for the officiating minister. Besides these, it had a pine-cased harpsichord. 
                  The first-named of these apartments, the sitting-rooms, wore each generally occupied by several of their number, two of whom had, in partnership pro tem., a table and several other necessary household articles. These ate their breakfast and supper together, while the whole of the Sisterhood all dined at one common refectory, yet with some difference of fare, some tables being more expensively provided than the others, in order to accommodate all parties. 
                  Ere I pass from this department, I would observe, in reference to the economy and cheapness of living in these institutions at the period of my story, that a plain, substantial, hearty dinner was afforded at the expense of only seven pence, Pennsylvania currency; and that for one month the Sisters could be provided with the same, at a charge of fifteen shillings and sixpence of this money. Thus all, even the poorest and most shiftless of their single women, if only industrious and employed, under ordinary circumstances could manage to obtain their own livelihood. 
                  In some rooms, Benigna and the Mother found the inmates spinning, knitting or sewing, or employed in weaving-while other Sisters, in making either pin-cushions or painting watch-papers, manufacturing filagree boxes, embroidering, or engaged in some equally useful occupation. 
                  But what interested the child more than any of these pursuits, was her visit to the candy-room, where she saw one of the Sisters making peppermints and sweet wafers. This good woman was a great favorite with the children, who called her by the name of Sister Benel Peppermint. The Sister associated with her had a remarkable gait, caused by singularly shaped feet and toes, which caused her to receive the cognomen of Sister Polly Steeple-toe. 
                  In another room, an ancient, venerable-looking Sister, an octogenarian, with a mind nearly lost in its dotage, arrested the attention of the child. She scarcely retained any consciousness of passing events, but like aged people generally, whose memory is gone, she lived altogether in retrospective occurrences-her thoughts ever wandering back to the scenes of her childhood and youth, roaming away among the native hills and valleys of her far distant fatherland. She was now the principal songstress in this establishment-her feeble voice ever and anon breaking upon the ear, singing, in discordant measure, some of the Moravian hymns of the olden time. 
                  Mother Neisser and Benigna found her thus engaged when they entered the room. Something about the child evidently particularly pleased her, for, directly upon her coming, her almost vacant countenance lighted up with unusual animation. She patted her upon the head-repeatedly kissed her-mumbled something unintelligible-then fumbled in her pocket, from whence she presently took out a soiled piece of coarse paper, but carefully folded, which she handed to the child. It proved to be a rough portrait of Papa Zinzendorf, as she called the Count. Some thought it a striking resemblance, and of course considered it a valuable present. The old creature had probably brought this with her from Germany about thirty years before, and treasured it as a valuable remembrance. Benigna looked at the picture, then would have returned it; but the aged Sister shook her head negatively, and could not be induced to receive it back again. The child, therefore, was allowed to retain the portrait, and, in return, gave her the few pennies she had with her. 
                  Last of all, they went to the apartments of the elderess. Here they remained a considerable time, when her Superior prayed with Benigna, and talked to her in a serious and impressive manner-but the whole of it being in German, much of it was lost to her youthful auditor; yet by dint of Mother Neisser's efforts, together with those of another Sister called in for the purpose, the child understood sufficient to make her very thoughtful. 
                  Soon after Vesper, they left for the Widows' House, in order to visit Benigna's spiritual mother, where she passed through a similar ordeal of religious exercises. And from henceforth daily was she more or less thus occupied with one or another of these chosen guardians of her soul. 
                  The following week was the annual festival Celebration of the little girls-since changed to the childrens' festival. Benigna in consequence attended several very solemn meetings. The child was very much impressed by these services-a fact carefully observed. 
                  The same day Elsie visited her young friend; unfortunately, she had Frederick. with her. They had not seen each other for several weeks. This circumstance added to the pleasure of Benigna on the occasion, who was perfectly delighted at her coining. Mother Neisser was vexed the moment she saw the boy, and made the visit a short one by peremptorily ordering the little girl out of the room, and telling Elsie that she could not allow her to return. 
                  They were gone but a few minutes when Rosalie Steinberg came in. Being a great favorite with the old lady, she warmly welcomed her. Yet Mother Neisser was still much perturbed, which did not escape the observation of Rosalie, who kindly inquired the cause. The old lady, knowing her friendship for Elsie, and the opinion she entertained of the Tracys, hesitated-and then resolved not to mention the reason of her excitement, although she fain would have made a confidant of her, and desired her assistance in checking further intimacy between them and Benigna. 
                  She could not, however, prevent herself from dropping some expressions regarding these friends of her adopted child-not very kind or friendly; from which it became very evident to Rosalie that they in some way had produced this unpleasant state of feeling. Rosalie, in return, spoke very strongly in favor of all these strangers, more especially of Elsie. 
                  Mother Neisser had a high opinion of her judgment, and Rosalie possessed considerable influence over her-she directly believed that this primitive Sister had allowed herself to be biassed by erroneous impressions, which had strongly prejudiced her. Of this she strove to convince her. The old lady, though of hasty temper, was easily appeased. By and by Rosalie succeeded in completely calming her, and restoring her to good humor-then, ere she left, she obtained permission for Benigna to visit her on the morrow. 
                   
                  Elsie, as an invited guest at the Bishop's the next day, was with her friend more than an hour before the child came. Presently she became the subject of conversation. 
                  "She is a dear little girl," said Elsie. 
                  "Yes, that she is;" responded Rosalie-" and one, I trust, whom our Saviour especially loves. My father is much interested in her. He believes she has a very tender conscience-is religiously inclined-possesses strong susceptibilities-is remarkably amiable, and very docile." 
                  "She is all that, you may depend," replied Elsie, warmly. "She is uncommonly winning and attractive; and yet I do not believe that Mother Neisser either loves her as she ought, or always treats her well." 
                  "Why! what makes you suppose so?" inquired Rosalie in surprise. "I have always thought quite the contrary-that she is exceedingly fond of her." 
                  "Then she has a strange way of manifesting her affection. She is, I think, very strict with her-besides, she speaks very cross to the child. Only yesterday, when I was there, I saw and heard sufficient to persuade me that this impression is correct. Something had happened, I suppose, to ruffle the temper of the old lady; but whatever it was, Benigna, from her manner, must have been totally unconscious of it. We were together-the child as happy and cheerful as usual, when the Mother came in with lowering countenance-spoke exceedingly harsh to her, very peremptorily ordering her immediately out of the room, and not to return. I observed the poor dear little thing quail under her glance-tremble-then, silently weeping, instantly obey her." 
                  Rosalie was much astonished and grieved upon hearing all this. She remembered how she found Mother Neisser directly afterwards, and thought she had now a key to her excitement-yet she could not gather from this conversation the reason for her extraordinary conduct-hence was unable to give any satisfactory explanation to Elsie. She therefore immediately changed the subject, by taking up the programme of the little girls' festival tival which lay upon a table near her, and began talking about it. She inquired of Elsie how she liked the celebration. 
                  She expressed herself pleased with it-but wondered it was confined exclusively to the little girls. She thought their young brothers should be permitted to join in the festival. 
                  "They have their own day," was the reply. "Besides, it would be contrary to our rules to allow any such thing." 
                  "Why?" asked Elsie. 
                  "Simply because we do not think it best to permit any such association. We are very peculiar in this respect, I know; but we have some prohibitory rules and regulations, which prevent our young people of either sex having much acquaintance with the other. Indeed there is so little intercourse allowed between them, especially the young or unmarried people of our Society, that it almost amounts to none at all. This commences in early childhood, and is carried out even in our churches, as you, doubtless, have already frequently noticed." 
                  "Yes, I have observed this peculiarity of yours, and it immediately struck me as a singular arrangement. How very extraordinary it is, however! But how do you manage with regard to the brothers and sisters of one family? Are they not allowed to associate together?" 
                  "We used formerly to separate them in a great measure, even from infancy; but this practice is now set aside-yet they are kept as much apart, as can conveniently be done; but from the age of ten or twelve, the intercourse between them almost entirely ceases-or rather from this period there is very little opportunity for familiarity between them." 
                  "How very strange this is!" exclaimed Elsie. "But pray tell me the meaning of it." 
                  "It is intended to make us more faithful in our calling-to increase our piety, and to enable us to be more zealously devoted to our Saviour's service." 
                  Benigna here entered the room, and caused the farther discussion of the subject to be postponed to another opportunity. The little girl at first was not as cheerful as usual. Her sweet countenance tenance wore somewhat of a troubled, anxious look; but, by and by, the cloud dispersed, and the sunshine of happiness again brightened her face. 
                  Elsie left the same time she did; but she had become so much interested in her conversation with Rosalie, that she determined to resume the subject at the earliest opportunity. 
                
                
                  CHAPTER VI. 
                  A FEW days after the occurrences mentioned in my last chapter, Mother Neisser became quite ill from a severe pain in her head. It originated from an ugly-looking sore on the right cheek, an inch or two below the eye. The pain extended all over the face and neck, causing the most intense suffering. 
                  When Benigna first saw her thus, her little heart was so troubled she could do little else but cry. But presently, when the necessity forced itself upon her mind that she must be attended to, and knew of nobody but Susel and herself to perform those duties, she aroused herself from her grief and tried to exert her abilities in endeavoring to get whatever the old lady desired, to make her comfortable. Father Neisser went for Doctor Bender, who prescribed a plaster-some medicine, and an anodyne. Benigna received instructions from him how to put on the one-to give or apply the others-and so with every prescription given. 
                  It so happened the little girl in her young life had seen much of sickness. Her grandmother was one of those useful people who, by dint of much practical experience and observation, had fitted herself successfully to alleviate many of the bodily sufferings of her fellow-creatures. She lived in a part of the country where, for many miles, there was no physician. In various cases she proved an excellent substitute, not only in her immediate neighborhood, but also throughout quite an extensive district, where her services were asked, and freely given. 
                  Sometimes she had the child with her, who noticed and remembered a portion of her grandmother's advice, and whatever else she said on these occasions; but her knowledge was necessarily very limited, yet sufficient to give her some little idea of the care required. Besides, she had a natural tact for the duties of a nurse. It accorded well with her kind, benevolent, and sympathetic nature. 
                  So faithfully and satisfactorily did she now perform the office of one to the old lady, that she positively refused to have any other. And as that lovely and gentle little being hovered around her sick couch, adjusting her pillows, bathing her fevered brow with her soft hands, or otherwise administering to her comfort, Mother Neisser, if never before, thanked the Providence which had sent this sweet spirit of consolation to her childless home, to comfort and soothe her in anguish-aye, and to beguile the time of the wearisome days and nights appointed to her. No marvel either, if she then found the cords of affection tighten winch bound her to the child, that she realized how hard it would be to part with such a blessing. 
                  It caused the heart of the dear little girl to fluctuate with pleasure to find, though so young, she could be of such acceptable service to her sick friend; yet, withal, the bitter mingled with the sweet in her cup of thanksgiving and joy-for her patient, at intervals, was so irritable, exacting, and unreasonable, that it wore heavily upon her; it really made her quite ill. 
                  The sore proved to be a very bad tumor. It had to be cauterized repeatedly, and afterwards it would not heal. And the weather being very warm, it became loathsome and offensive. This very much affected the child. She grew pale and languid. She pined for the want of fresh air-besides, she suffered from the effects of having her young and tender feelings always upon the rack. 
                  A number of the Sisters again and again offered to relieve her, but Mother Neisser continued to refuse their kindness, so far as personal attendance was concerned. Her dear child, she said, should only take care of her. Thus she persisted for nearly three weeks, when fortunately a favorite female cousin of hers arrived to see her. She had heard of her indisposition, and came purposely to take care of her; whereupon the old lady at length consented to let Benigna rest awhile from her labor of love and duty, and by the recommendation of the Doctor allowed her the privilege of walking out frequently. The cousin remained a fortnight. We will follow the child through this halcyon period. 
                  It was a treat to her to feel free from the restraints and weariness of the sick-room. The first morning of her liberty, Elsie very opportunely called-a circumstance which rendered her indescribably happy; but her friend felt shocked and sad at her altered appearance. She consulted with Father Neisser and the Doctor upon the subject-when the permission was repeatedly reiterated, that she could freely go out and in; and she was told to take plenty of exercise in the open air, in order to recruit her health and spirits. 
                  "May I ramble about with Miss Ashley?" she inquired. 
                  "Yes-yes-you may, my child," answered her adopted father. 
                  And gladly now she used this privilege. Together the twain took many a stroll, but never did she venture into the immediate vicinity of that prohibited spot, the village tavern. 
                  It was then her intimacy with the Tracy family was renewed. Benigna met them the very first time she was thus wandering along with Elsie. 
                  Her appearance among the little group produced perfect delight. Emily immediately came running to her, chiding Benigna for her long absence-then hugged and kissed her. Mrs. Tracy held her in a long embrace-while Frederick greeted his former playmate with real, cordial pleasure-glad to have her again as the companion of his sports and rambles. Nor must the Doctor be forgotten-he too, had his words of kindness and tokens of friendly interest to bestow. All were highly gratified-and Benigna, as was her wont when thus excited, wept for very joy. 
                  No marvel that the poor child, in her happiness, did not think of the prohibition concerning these dear friends. It appeared an age, said the children, since they had had such an enjoyment And question upon question had to be asked. Many of these were in reference to herself. 
                  They soon spoke of her baptism. 
                  "And this has given you quite a different name." 
                  "Yes," answered the child-and I am now called Benigna." "Which do you like the most, that or Ellinor?" inquired Emily. 
                  "Oh, Ellinor to be sure! because my grandmother's name, and my own dear mother gave it to me just before she went to heaven. Grandmother told me that my father wished me to be called Agnes after her; but when she felt she could not stay here any longer, and that dear grandmother was to have me, she said she wished it changed to Ellinor; and this is the reason why I love it so dearly." 
                  Mrs. Tracy and Elsie were quite affected. 
                  "Well, my darling child," said the former lady, "with us you will always be little Ellinor Waldemar." 
                  "Then ever call me so, do please, dear Mrs. Tracy." So it was settled that, although in future everybody else called her Benigna-to these dear friends she would still continue to be Ellinor, even if they inadvertently adopted her baptismal name-as, in truth, it still belonged to her. 
                  Mrs. Tracy next inquired about Mother Neisser. Benigna gratefully acknowledged this kindness, and had so many friendly interrogatories to answer, that quite a space elapsed ere she could give more than a passing notice to little Emily. 
                  She had not seen her for more than two months. She found her much improved in health. Indeed there was now an unmistakable change for the better in her whole appearance-which Benigna directly perceived, the moment she turned to observe her more particularly. Emily stood by her brother, laughing at his pranks with a dog; Frederick was teaching a variety of new tricks. 
                  The little girl had been exercising considerably, causing a fine glow in her usually pale cheeks-and with her coal-black eyes, and happy expression of countenance, she really looked remarkably ably well. In a moment more Benigna had joined her, when they and Frederick were directly pleasantly engaged together. 
                  Benigna was now inexpressibly happy-and again her friends heard her merry laugh among them; The girls and Frederick now amused themselves for hours together with their books and toys under some shady knoll, or in playing "Hide and go Seek," "Hot-butter-blue-beans"-or in other simple sports of childhood-and thus they spent many a pleasant hour. 
                  In the meanwhile, time did not pause in its course-on the contrary, it seemed to speed its way with uncommon rapidity. The fortnight of recreation had glided by-Mother Neisser was better, and her cousin returned to her own home, leaving Benigna, with renovated health and spirits, to resume her place in the household. 
                  The old lady had so far recovered as to be able to be about the house, to attend in part to her domestic affairs; but she continued to suffer enough to keep her constantly irritable. She was disposed again to be very exacting with the child. In truth, though much relieved, the sore had not yet healed-and an occasional sharp, shooting pain through the head, proceeding from, it, together with other unfavorable circumstances, gave premonitory symptoms of it again proving troublesome. 
                  At this time Mrs. Tracy received a letter from her husband dated at Paris, mentioning the probability of his business requiring him to remain much longer abroad. He wished very much to have his family with him, and proposed, in the event of his not being able to return in six months, to endeavor to make some arrangement for them to join him. 
                  Elsie by the same mail got tidings from her friends, which filled her with anxiety. Edward wrote of fresh difficulties between the belligerents of the Wyoming Valley, and their hostility to each other was becoming more alarming than ever. 
                  Mrs. Tracy now had her mind agitated with the present aspect of her situation. She was exceedingly anxious to be reunited to her husband, yet would fain avoid crossing the ocean while so many elements of discord and warfare were floating on its surface face. Each of the ladies participated in the anxieties and perplexities of the other, and in this reciprocal sympathy both were relieved and comforted. 
                  Immediately thereupon both parties shifted their lodgings from the Eagle to private accommodations. They were not so fortunate, however, as to be able to continue together-Elsie's new home was near the Bishop's residence, while the Tracys obtained rooms very near to the Neissers. 
                
                
                  CHAPTER VII. 
                  ELSIE'S removal brought her into the same house with the Brunners-an arrangement exceedingly pleasing to Lizzie, who had begun to weary with her monotonous state of existence, and feel the want of companionship. Elsie did not much fancy her society-yet not only tolerated it, but for a space allowed some intimacy, a circumstance not to be wondered at, on account of her social disposition, and the twain being nearly of the same age. 'Besides, as yet, she judged her conduct more favorably than the Moravian people did, simply for the reason of her directly perceiving Lizzie to be thoroughly spoiled by excessive indulgence, and could not discover her committing any gross improprieties intentionally. She believed her faults to be more of the head than the heart-in a great measure the result of early mismanagement; hence she felt disposed more to pity than to blame her, and Lizzie had the art to fasten this conviction upon her mind. The deceptive girl, though with great effort, still maintained the character she had assumed, and really conducted herself so unexceptionably as to cause her to be rapidly overcoming the prejudice entertained against her. In consequence, the Leitners permitted Wilhelmina to visit her several times, but used the precaution of accompanying their daughter. 
                  During this interval, Lizzie's popularity with Sister Winny continued to increase, and the good soul, not questioning her motives, readily satisfied her numerous interrogatories concerning ing her beloved church-thus furnishing the artful girl with the information she wanted. She had now a large stock of this kind of historic materials, some of which were curious enough, being mixed up with traditionary legends connected with the early times of the primitive, Moravians. 
                  While Lizzie thus proceeded with the unsuspecting domestic, in like manner, for an especial object, she cultivated the good opinion of her hostess. 
                  By way of explanation, it is necessary here to mention the fact of the unmarried son just then visiting his parents. A quiet, humble, unobtrusive individual-very diffident and retiring in his manners, even to awkwardness, when in company-artless and unassuming-with more piety than learning or common sense, and perfectly ignorant of the world. He had withal rather a pleasant countenance. Such were his endowments and acquirements-his lineaments of character and appearance. With nothing in particular about him to attract or interest-but exactly the kind of person to become the dupe of the designing and mischievous. Lizzie was not slow in discovering this, and, it will be seen presently, took all the advantage she could of these circumstances. 
                  Her natural propensities were restless for employment; her mask now became troublesome; yet she determined to continue to wear it until she had accomplished her wishes, and, closely watching over herself and her opportunities, she warily pursued her course of action. 
                  From the various information she had obtained, through Sister Winny, of the peculiarities of the Moravians, she very carefully noted those which she thought she could render available as subjects of ridicule. Among these, the whole of the arrangement concerning their marriages-marrying "by lot"-became the most prominent; and it caused the greatest curiosity, astonishment, and most numerous inquiries. For these emotions the girl deserved no blame, since this was perhaps the most exciting and interesting of their customs, especially to young persons. 
                  Had Lizzie therefore merely expressed these feelings, it would have elicited no particular remark, such being an usual circumstance. But, on the contrary, she not only did this, but screamed and laughed outright-exclaiming against the absurdity of this practice-at the same time secretly resolving to make it the principal butt of her ridicule. In addition, she forgot herself so far as to speak rather unguardedly upon the subject to Sister Winny. 
                  The worthy woman, who was not very sharp-witted, consequently easily imposed upon, could not at all comprehend her conduct-however, it evidently much annoyed her. Lizzie immediately perceived this, and the imprudence she had been guilty of. She could not but regret it, and told Sister Winny so; at the same time, she humbly apologized for the offence-then gave her a second ribbon for her cap, and soon satisfied the credulous, amiable creature of her behavior being only the result of thoughtlessness. 
                  "And now, dear Sister Winny, to prove to me that I am forgiven, do read to me a little out of that book of yours," saying which, she handed her a small pamphlet of the Moravians. She gave it to her upside down. 
                  The mischievous girl had long suspected the poor woman could not read at all-which was really the case. 
                  Sister Winny put on her spectacles, and, not discovering the mistake, commenced giving her a portion of the contents she knew by heart. She looked so ludicrous, however, and altogether appeared so ridiculous to Lizzie, she could not help laughing-but, fearful of the woman seeing it, hastened out of the room, pretending to sob as she went. 
                  Sister Winny followed her-kindly inquiring what was the matter. Lizzie did not answer immediately, but at length sobbed out- 
                  "Oh, nothing at all! only what you read was so exceedingly touching. But, Sister Winny, do read some more. I think I can bear it now." 
                  The simple woman again took up the pamphlet, holding it as before. Lizzie could scarcely control herself. 
                  "But see, Sister Winny, you have got the book upside down!" 
                   
                  "Have I, my child? well it makes no difference anyhow. I can read all about those blessed times just as well that way as any other." 
                  Lizzie here could no longer command herself. She laughed till she cried-but turned her back upon her companion as she did so. Then, somewhat recovering herself, she exclaimed- 
                  "Well, Sister Winny! you are really without exception the most wonderful woman I ever met with, and you quite overcome me; you must not mind my tears." 
                  "Poor child," was the reply, "I hope indeed ye are properly impressed-and I am thinking that by and by ye will become right good." 
                  Elsie here came in. Sister Winny left them. Lizzie commenced telling her in confidence some of the information she had been receiving relative to the Moravians. Lizzie never repeated anything as she heard it, and she gave Elsie a very distorted account of the whole, especially with regard to their marriages. 
                  "Only think! said she, "they marry a large lot of them at once-making one ceremony of it-leaving the parties to select their respective partners afterwards, which they do, by drawing lots; and so the business is settled." 
                  "This is very strange, indeed!" said Elsie, "and I cannot believe you are correct about it." 
                  Lizzie maintained that thus she had been told. Elsie, however, could not credit this absurd statement, together with others she gave her concerning these people, notwithstanding Lizzie's assertion that they were all verities. 
                  These stories, nevertheless, increased her interest and curiosity to be rightly informed about them. But who could she ask? Again she thought of Rosalie. The feeling of delicacy she had with regard to making inquiries of her still remained; yet she was now become so much interested in the Society, that at length she resolved to hesitate no longer, but to refer to her for reliable information upon the subject. 
                  Elsie was apt to be occasionally very much depressed in spirits, and at this time especially, owing to the peculiar circumstances of her present situation, with so much anxiety and uncertainty hanging over her future. One day when unusually sad, it so happened that Mrs. Tracy, with her family, was away at a neighboring village-neither was Rosalie at home. She was thus left alone to brood over her melancholy thoughts and anticipations, for Lizzie Brunner was no company for her when in such a mood. But her heart at this moment yearned particularly towards Benigna, whose thoughtful and sad countenance now plainly told that she too, though so young and pure, had made acquaintance with trials. 
                  As Elsie had changed her lodgings, she anticipated no objection from Mother Neisser to the child's visiting her. But when she asked her permission, the old lady did not seem inclined to grant it-yet, at length gave a reluctant consent-but on the condition she should not remain long. The old lady looked vexed, and was rather repulsive and forbidding in her manners, which pained Elsie, who feared that she had unwittingly offended her. 
                  She mentioned this to Rosalie when she next saw her. She had just then returned from seeing Mother Neisser, who made her acquainted with the whole circumstances of Elsie's visit. 
                  "Make yourself easy, my dear friend," she replied. "You have given her no cause of offence-neither is she angry-though she has some unpleasant feelings regarding you." 
                  "Of me!" interrupted Elsie, quite astonished; "why, what have I done to trouble the old lady?" 
                  "Have a little patience and I will explain it to you," answered Rosalie smiling. "The truth is, the good Mother too late in life assumed the duties and responsibilities of a parent. She has a thousand anxieties about little Benigna. I found her in great perplexity concerning her. The old lady is really an excellent woman, but does not possess much strength of character-is very hasty in her temper and opinion-is deficient in judgment-has very limited views of human nature-and, though apt to waver in her decisions, wishes to govern with firmness. She is withal, theoretically, a rigid disciplinarian of our rules and observances, and earnestly desires to train Benigna to the strict observances of them all." 
                  "Well, I certainly do not mean to interfere in any of these sir arrangements or views of hers." 
                  "But the old lady apprehends that you will-though perhaps unintentionally. 
                  "How?" asked Elsie. 
                  "Benigna is exceedingly attached to you. You have already considerable influence over her, and the more you associate the greater will be that influence. This Mother Neisser evidently dreads, and hence her anxious fears." 
                  "The old lady surely does not suppose I would say aught to the child disrespectful of the Society, or anything else that she or any of you could disapprove," said Elsie, rather excited. 
                  "I hardly know what she does think-perhaps it would be difficult even for herself to tell; but these are some of the reasons of her strange conduct towards you. 
                  "Some, you say-pray has she anything else against me?" 
                  "Not exactly; but be calm, my dear Elsie, and I will try to answer you. You know what a lovable little creature Benigna is. The Mother realizes this. Indeed the child has completely won her heart, and she is constantly uneasy lest others should steal her affections from her." 
                  "Then she is jealous of me, I suppose," said Elsie smiling. 
                  "She may be somewhat so; but that feeling does not appear to be the principal difficulty just now with her. She is more afraid of the Tracy family. She does not seem to wish to destroy all communication between you and the child, but I believe is determined, if possible, to prevent any farther intercourse between them." 
                  I cannot imagine why she makes this distinction," said Elsie much surprised; "and suppose association with them to be more injurious to Benigna than mine is," she continued, laughing. 
                  "Yes, but she does, though not on Mrs. Tracy's account, but because of her children. She seems to be exceedingly suspicious and distrustful of them." 
                  "Why? What have the innocent children done to merit this feeling? What mischief, pray, can she apprehend from either of them?" 
                  Rosalie did not immediatly reply to this interrogatory. But presently she said- 
                  "We must put an entire stop to their acquaintance, at least for the present, and you must assist me, my dear Elsie." 
                  "Why?" she asked, in amazement. "Surely they are very respectable and excellent people." 
                  "I do not dispute that-but"-and she hesitated a moment, and then continued, "In fact it is against our rules to permit Benigna visiting there." 
                  Why, my dear Rosalie?" 
                  "There is no objection either to Mrs. Tracy or to her little girl, it is only on account of her son. He is the great obstacle in the way." 
                  "Why, what has Frederick done?" 
                  "Nothing wrong that I know of; indeed, I believe him to he not only a fine, manly boy and promising, but very unexceptionable in his general behavior. There is no fault to be found with him personally, except because of his sex. You recollect I told you that we do not permit boys and girls to associate with each other." 
                  "True, I remember you said so. But Benigna is really so innocent and childlike." 
                  "I grant this, but nevertheless she is a girl, and the junior by several years of Frederick Tracy. Both inherit the common feelings of humanity, and though pure as an icicle, and innocent as angels, may be tempted to sin." 
                  "Is it really possible that you judge thus!" exclaimed Elsie laughing. "I do think that the good people who framed this law must indeed have had queer notions. They could not have understood human nature at all." 
                  "There you are entirely mistaken. On the contrary, they understood it but too well," replied Rosalie. "And remember, my dear Elsie, that this was one of the fruits of their fervent piety and godly zeal." 
                  Elsie looked at Rosalie. She thought, perhaps, the discussion of the subject was unpleasant to her, and would have directly changed the conversation, but Rosalie, after a brief pause, resumed it- 
                  "You no doubt think us a singular people, and so we are-and the more you become acquainted with our peculiarities, you will be confirmed in this opinion; but we are not the fanatics, or visionary enthusiasts, which some suppose us to be, and the better knowledge you obtain of our whole system of ecclesiastical government, the more you will be convinced of the truth of this assertion. And all the strange customs you will see among us, you will find that they are based altogether upon strong religious feelings-a fervency of spirit to serve our Lord-a devotedness of heart to his service, a self-sacrificing disposition, which prompts us willingly and cheerfully to crucify our affections and our very wishes upon the altar of our faith." 
                  "But is this really necessary? is it a part of our Christian duty to do this'? to make such sacrifices?" 
                  "Yes, we believe them to be a proof of our love to our Lord." 
                  "You excite my surprise, my dear Rosalie. I am all curiosity to learn more. I wish to know all about your rules and regulations." 
                  "Well, ask what you please, and as far as I can I will inform you, for I feel assured, my dear Elsie, that no idle curiosity prompts you, but a desire for proper information. And I trust you have sufficient respect for us as a Christian people, neither to ridicule nor condemn whatever of our regulations your judgment may see fit to disapprove." 
                  "Certainly!" replied her friend. "I am exceedingly interested, and you may expect a great many questions." 
                  "You must defer asking me any other now," said Rosalie, look, ing at her watch, "as I am compelled to leave immediately." 
                   
                  "Yet one word more, dear Rosalie; will you permit me to tell Mrs. Tracy any part of this conversation?" 
                  "I would rather not-at least for the present." 
                  "But what of the interdict regarding Benigna and the children?" 
                  "You can do as you please about that, dear Elsie-upon second thought, I believe you had better defer saying anything to her for awhile, as Frederick possibly may accompany his uncle, who, I am told, intends leaving next week for Philadelphia." 
                  And thus the conversation ended. 
                
                
                  CHAPTER VIII. 
                  WE are about the commencement of October in the same year. There had been considerable rain. The atmosphere, though not positively cold, was chilly and damp. 
                  Mother Neisser again lay upon her bed in excruciating agony-her face now far more painful than before. It was in a high state of inflammation. Delirium ensued, and for a space she became quite frantic. Unfortunately, her husband, at the same time, had a severe attack of inflammatory rheumatism, while the woman, who usually could be called upon to assist in the household affairs, was also very unwell. Susel had to take care of her mother and the younger children, leaving Benigna entirely alone with the invalids. 
                  The child, too, was far from well-perfectly unfit to nurse others. Yet she did her best, but with all her endeavors, could not manage to get along comfortably. Her duties were truly onerous, enough surely to dishearten her, for the Mother grew worse, while the Father became no better. 
                  All the Doctor's prescriptions seemed useless-no benefit resulting from the use of them. To add to her trouble, it had been raining almost incessantly for the last few days, preventing visitors of every kind. This, too, produced a depressing influence. 
                  Weary and dispirited, besides feeling quite ill, Benigna seated herself by a front window and mechanically looked out. She was pondering on what had best to be done for the relief of all parties, when she saw Doctor Tracy pass the door towards the lodgings of the family. Suddenly a new hope sprung into her little heart, and without waiting a moment for reflection, she threw a hood upon her head and ran after him. 
                  Doctor Tracy had preceded her in the house but a few steps. All of the family of course were delighted to see her; but not as usual did she meet them. She wore a very troubled look-the tears trembled in her eyes-while her whole appearance was haggard and care-worn. 
                  Bursting into tears, Benigna told her sorrowful tale, entreating the Doctor's kindly aid in making the sick ones well. She found him all sympathy and kindness, while the whole family endeavored to soothe her. At first, however, the worthy man hesitated to comply with her earnest entreaty, because they had already employed another physician; but Benigna's tears prevailed, and he followed her into the room where the sufferers lay. 
                  It was a heaven-born thought of this little girl, and a godsend to these afflicted people, Doctor Tracy being a very experienced and excellent practitioner. Under his skilful treatment, his patients soon became very much relieved. 
                  But Mother Neisser's case proved to be one requiring a surgical operation, to afford any permanent relief. In fact, this ought to have been earlier done, but not consenting to it, outward applications and medicines were used, affording only temporary alleviations of suffering, instead of removing the disease. In consequence of this improper treatment, she would certainly lose the sight of one eye, if not of both-hence, perhaps, ultimately might become entirely blind. 
                  She had been under the care of Doctor Tracy for nearly a fortnight, when on the coming morrow he intended to leave for Philadelphia. Mother Neisser, though much improved in her general health, had not yet been sufficiently strong for the application of the knife, but she very much desired to have him perform the operation ere he left. Benigna again earnestly pleaded with him in behalf of her afflicted friend, to stay and do it, while with tearful eyes she expressed her gratitude to him for his already kind and efficient services. Again she succeeded. He could not resist her entreaties; and he did remain, much to the joy of the young orphan's affectionate heart. He was a superior surgeon, remarkably quick and expert in the business. 
                  Benigna staid with the old lady during the whole of this season of suffering, assisting the Doctor as far as she could in getting the necessary bandages ready. Yet, when about commencing to operate, the Doctor wished her to retire; but the old lady objected so much to her absence, that she continued with hen Then, desiring to be useful, she held the Mother's head, though her own little arms had to be steadied and supported while she did so. Mrs. Tracy and Elsie were witnesses of this act of filial and heroic devotion, and they, with the Doctor, marvelled greatly at the spirit of uncomplaining perseverance manifested on the occasion by this sweet child. 
                  The operation was very skilfully and successfully performed. The Tracys were exceedingly kind, attentive and generous withal-for the Doctor would not accept a farthing for the invaluable services he had rendered-while it would be difficult to enumerate all the nice, choice delicacies his sister caused to be prepared, to strengthen and brace up the feeble woman. All these favors, they said, were to be placed to the account of Benigna, because of her affectionate and dutiful disposition-also to the love the whole family bore her. And they asked nothing in return, except the permission given to this dear interesting girl of visiting their little Emily often in the future-more particularly as, in the event of Frederick leaving, the child would have no playmate, and they feared, if thus situated, she might become unhappy and discontented. 
                  Mother Neisser, poor dear old soul, now found herself in a quandary more unpleasant than ever before, because called upon to act directly contrary to her expressed wishes. The request made, though a simple one, could not be granted without an infringement upon a long-established rule of the Society-for Frederick had not yet left, and the child consequently would unavoidably come in immediate contact with him. 
                  But a great revulsion had taken place in the mind of Mother Neisser concerning these good people. She was now thoroughly ashamed of her previous prejudices against them, which under the influence of their kindness had evaporated and dispersed, even as dark clouds before bright sunshine. Both herself and husband felt under great obligations to the brother and sifter. In their heart of hearts, they were truly grateful to them. They had sincere respect and friendship for the Doctor, while the old lady really loved Mrs. Tracy, and the better she became acquainted with her, the greater was the regard she entertained for her. 
                  And willingly now, could she consistently do it, would she have allowed Benigna to visit in her family. Yet could the interdict be removed, while that noble-looking, handsome Frederick remained in the way. She feared not. Uncertain, however, how to act about it, she sent for Bishop Steinberg, to confer with him upon the matter. 
                  Soon after the coming of this venerable father in the house, Benigna was summoned to their united presence, where she also met her elderess. These worthy representatives of the Primitive Moravians plainly and gravely stated the case to her. At the same time, they informed her very particularly of this peculiar rule of the Society-then said, that, in view of the circumstances, permission would be granted her to visit the family, provided she would not allow herself to play with Frederick Tracy, nor even to notice him, except when absolutely necessary-neither to think of him at all. 
                  That same day she spent some hours with the Tracys, and again on the morrow, when the Doctor with Frederick left for Philadelphia. 
                  On the morning previous to then departure, Doctor Tracy called to take his farewell of the Neissers, and to leave some general directions to the old lady with regard to herself. He startled both of the worthy pair, by the proposition of taking upon himself the future guardianship of the young orphan. In short, he wished to adopt Benigna as his own, in the place of an only child who died two summers preceding. Doctor Tracy lost his wife but a short time previous to the occurrence of this sad bereavement. Since then he had felt lonely and desolate. The artless innocence, unsophisticated manners, and lovely disposition of Benigna, had so charmed him-so completely won his interest and regard, that he offered to receive her in the place of the dead-to educate and provide for the little girl as he would were she his own daughter, leaving her at his death the bulk of his large fortune. 
                  Not either of these considerations had the least weight with the childless parents of the orphan. But, on the contrary, Mother Neisser seemed almost vexed about it. She knew the value of the treasure she possessed in the child-and no inducement whatever of any worldly advantages he could offer would allow her to part with her. Indeed, the old lady became so excited upon the subject, that the good Doctor gladly took his leave. 
                  For four or five months subsequent to this, nothing occurred to interrupt the intercourse between the Tracys and Benigna Waldemar. The children were daily together. 
                  During this interval, Benigna went regularly to school, but only about three hours at a time. Nor were her spiritual interests neglected. The watchful guardians of her soul 'attended faithfully to their trust, and the seeds of piety which they had so assiduously cultivated, had germinated-were budding, and promised to expand into rare beauty. Yes, Benigna Waldemar was becoming truly a disciple of the Saviour-one of the loveliest blossoms in the garden of the Lord; and the sweet influence of her piety, her charming example, was felt by all those with whom she associated, especially by her little playmate, her intimate friend, her beloved Emily. 
                  This little girl, though still of fragile appearance, had so much improved in health, that her mother was more sanguine than ever of her ultimate entire recovery. Benigna and she enjoyed themselves greatly together. They agreed remarkably well, but sometimes, unwittingly, Emily brought her friend into trouble. To instance this:-Once she coaxed Benigna to let the servant dress her hair. It curled naturally, and she soon made it look beautiful. The innocent child herself was so pleased with her appearance, she ran home for Mother Neisser to see her. But it did not accord with the old lady's notions of propriety. She thought it the gratification of a sinful indulgence, to be promptly checked. She told Benigna so, then added- 
                  "And did you now look into a glass, my child, perhaps you would see the devil peeping over your shoulders and grinning at you." 
                  Benigna shuddered and trembled with fear as she heard this dreadful speech-and no marvel that she hereupon passively submitted to the clipping off of all her beautiful tresses. 
                  But we are anticipating in our story. Now change we the subject in our narration, to speak of other interesting circumstances which occurred in these same wintry months. 
                  During this interval Elsie Ashley had continued to observe the peculiarities of the Society, and to make inquiries of her friend Rosalie concerning them. She informed her of the origin of several of their festivals, which much interested her. The manner of their celebrating Christmas particularly pleased her. 
                  In a coversation she had with Rosalie about this time, she spoke of the friendly relations now existing between the Tracy family and the Neissers. Although Elsie had been told of the circumstances connected with their present intimacy, she was not acquainted with all the details; nor could she understand how the old lady could so readily overcome all the obstacles in the way. 
                  "I am very curious to hear all about this strange affair," she said to her friend. 
                  "Well, I believe I can satisfactorily explain it to you. Mother Neisser, you know, was strongly prejudiced against Mrs. Tracy. 
                   
                  She entertains, you are aware, a general antipathy or repugnance to association with strangers; besides, she labored under the impression that the Tracys were proud and haughty, as well as worldly-minded people; but when she became acquainted with them, her opinion gradually changed-while the recent valuable services and kindnesses she so generously received from them, have penetrated to her inmost soul, and filled it with grateful emotions." 
                  "But, notwithstanding all this, how happened it that she allowed Benigna to visit the family while Frederick remained with them? I have been told she so strenuously objected to her going there on his account, because, according to your rules, it could not be permitted. What removed her scruples?" 
                  "True, some difficulty existed in settling that question. It put the Mother in considerable perplexity; especially this indulgence being the only thing asked by the Doctor, in return perhaps for the salvation of her life. Mother Neisser saw my father, to ask his advice upon the subject. He, I must tell you, never deemed it necessary to enforce the observance of this rule of our Society in this case. He has several reasons-the principal of which is that the Tracys are merely sojourners here, probably for no great length of time, and not likely ever to return again; besides, he considered Benigna's extreme youth. In addition, Frederick's position and circumstances of his future life will probably be so different as to so alter his tastes that, should he even now have a predilection for the child, it would likely be remembered only as such boyish fancies usually are. 
                  "With this view of the matter, my father could not anticipate unpleasant results, as the consequence of a present occasional association with him. Hence he did not take any steps to prevent it, but, on the contrary, had several weeks previouly talked to this effect with the old lady. And really, Elsie, she need not I think have any anxiety about it, for Mrs. Tracy and both of her children are to sail for Europe in the spring, where they expect to stay permanently." 
                  "But did I really understand you correctly, that no intercourse course between our sex and the single brotherhood is allowed in your Society?" 
                  "Yes, we rarely ever have even a short conversation with each other, except in the presence of a third person." 
                  "Then, if you are so strict in this respect, pray how do you manage your courtships and marriages?" 
                  Rosalie smiled, and was about answering, when, unfortunately. for Elsie, her father entered the apartment, and inquired of his daughter concerning something he wanted, which took her immediately out of the room. 
                
                
                  CHAPTER IX. 
                  BENIGNA WALDEMAR had lived in this Settlement of the Moravians about a year, when her uncle John again visited her. He was not directly from home, but on his return from the neighborhood of his former residence in the Wyoming Valley, whither he had gone for the purpose of endeavoring to collect a considerable amount of money due to himself and brothers from people in that vicinity. 
                  As money had become a scarce commodity, he found it rather difficult to get it, but ultimately succeeded in gathering between eighty and a hundred pounds. Of this he insisted upon leaving twenty pounds for his little niece. He brought her, besides, some nice woollen stockings, and a pair of warm mittens, all of which aunt Annie had knit for her. 
                  Mr. Waldemar gave a very discouraging description of the state of the country generally, throughout the whole of that unfortunate district of Pennsylvania. The war then raged in its greatest fury. The seat of it was at this period principally at the North. It seemed to be concentrating in New Jersey and Pennsylvania, and the people in the Valley were as turbulent and hostile as any. 
                  Strife and murders were common, and the apprehension was very strongly entertained that great outrages and much bloodshed would soon be perpetrated. 
                  Thus Elsie had new cause for alarm, but Mr. Waldemar calmed her by saying he believed the inhabitants in the neighborhood of her uncle's home were just then comparatively quiet. 
                  The visit of Mr. Waldemar was the cause of producing considerable anxiety on the minds of both Father and Mother Neisser, since he came with the desire of having his niece restored to her family. Her aunt Annie particularly missed her, and pined to have her again. The only objection, however, to this arrangement, was the circumstance of their new home not being in a healthy locality, and she could be far more comfortable in this Settlement than with them. 
                  Her adopted parents urged this consideration upon her uncle, together with all the other beneficial effects of her present situation. Mr. Waldemar readily admitted this; expressed himself perfectly satisfied regarding these desirable advantages, and said, that as far as himself and brothers were concerned, they would say nothing to prevent the continuance of the present arrangement respecting her. Finally he consented not to say anything farther upon the subject until spring-Father and Mother Neisser secretly hoping that circumstances would meanwhile occur which would altogether prevent this change. 
                  The interesting subject of conversation between Rosalie Steinberg and Elsie Ashley, interrupted in the last chapter, was resumed at their next meeting. 
                  Rosalie then entered into further explanation, and when she had made Elsie fully comprehend the nature of their prohibitory laws-how they were carried out, even in regard to the marriages of the Society, together with the arrangements adopted by them in consequence in disposing of themselves in marriage, she was perfectly surprised. 
                  To Elsie, the whole appeared a most singular, strange, unnatural usage, and one she was certain she could never comply with. And no marvel that she thought so, since the fond witcheries of a happy love had cast their magic spell upon her heart and charmed her young being, with all its delightful fancies. In vain, therefore, did Rosalie Steinberg vindicate this custom. Laughingly, Elsie replied: 
                  "No, no, my friend! you are not able to convince me of the propriety of marrying in this way. Why, dearest Rosalie! it seems to me that it cannot be productive of ought but fancied happiness, no matter how good and devoted you may be." 
                  "Call it by what name you will, yet, nevertheless, I repeat we are happy in our marriages." 
                  "Well, then, you must be destitute of some of the common instincts of humanity-have a sort of stoical philosophy about such matters, and be, as Lizzie Brunner says, soulless and heartless, although so spiritual and heavenly-minded." 
                  "Believe this not," responded her friend, with a sigh, looking unusually grave; "but rather that it is altogether the result of constant discipline of our wills and affections to a supposed sense of duty, added to. a strong confidence in the providence of God. You know, we trust not to our weak and erring judgment in deciding any of our important concerns, and feel that in this momentous one, our first desire should be for heavenly direction. But in adopting this extraordinary plan of action in the selection of our partners for life, perhaps it. is not so difficult for us as you may imagine, to become reconciled, contented-aye, even very happy in our allotted destiny, since our people are already bound together by the chain of affectionate sympathy and friendship, as a band of united brethren and sisters." 
                  "Then this chain of sympathy and friendship is changed, by heavenly magic, into love, I suppose," said Elsie. 
                  "Not love, as you understand the word. But this sacred tie of union, which is cemented by our common love to our Saviour, makes us feel as if we were all members of the same family, who have all similar interests at stake and purposes to gain. For this reason we are, from early childhood, trained in the principles of Christian charity, and are taught, in particular, to exercise them among ourselves. Hence, when any of our people are in any trouble or affliction, they experience the liveliest interest and attention from the rest of the community in which they live. Thus also under joyous or prosperous circumstances. 
                  "And while bearing, or rather lightening each other's burdens, by participating in our mutual joys and sorrows, we strengthen the bond of our holy consanguinity; and this constant sympathy, together with reciprocal sentiments of genuine respect and esteem, so assiduously cultivated among us, tends to prepare our hearts to concentrate our feelings and interests more readily upon one object. 
                  "Not to invest it with the illusions and false colorings of fancy, which is common to those who fall in love, as it is termed. Thus you perceive that our marriages are contracted with far different views than mere natural gratification, or inclination. As sons and daughters of the Lord, all we desire is to have a well-chosen companion, whom we can learn to regard in the light of a much valued friend-to journey with us through life's troublous way-to assist us in the discharge of all our duties-share in our earthly pleasures-to help us onward in our religious course-and, finally, to be fellow-partakers with us in our heavenly inheritance." 
                  "But," inquired Elsie, "how is it possible that this kind of friendship for the whole can be of such a nature as to suffice for forming the basis of happiness for a lifetime of the most endearing and intimate companionship?" 
                  "I trust I shall be able to answer you this question satisfactorily. In the first place bear in mind, if you please, that we are all educated in the same principles, which inculcate the necessity of submitting our own inclinations of preference, if we have any, to the decision of our church. Then, with minds moulded alike, our elder and elderess and married friends advise and instruct each party in their respective duties." 
                  "But suppose that the dispositions, habits, and manners are totally different, how can you make them congenial? Pray, what course do you pursue to accomplish this object?" 
                  "We are told to study them, and the necessity is impressed upon both parties of exercising mutual forbearance, patience, and kindness. The wife is especially recommended to seek to please her husband, by endeavoring to meet his reasonable wishes-to consult his tastes, and assimilate them, if possible, to hers-to consider his comfort and happiness equally with her own-and, in short, to exert her best abilities to make him a good and faithful helpmate." 
                  "But should either party not have been brought up in your Society, how then would you produce the same results?" asked Elsie. 
                  "Our friendly and affectionate family feeling soon inspires so much confidence, that a knowledge of any particular disposition is usually easily acquired, and many other facts elicited which go to make the sum total to judge of the character. They are all put together, and when such an individual wishes to marry among us, considerable effort is made to select a mate for him, supposed to possess suitable qualifications for such a companionship." 
                  "And if you have parents, is it not necessary to obtain their consent in taking this step in life?" 
                  "Oh certainly, Elsie! and this is done when the proposal is made known to their daughter." 
                  "But suppose they should not approve of the match, would that prevent the marriage?" 
                  "I know of no such case ever having occurred. In fact, they, as well as their children, regard the whole of the matter as being divinely directed, and hence, if the proposition is agreeable to the parties themselves, the parents are expected not to oppose it, but, on the contrary, make themselves satisfied." 
                  "And is not sufficient space permitted between the consent of a couple and the solemnization of their marriage, to allow them to become somewhat intimately acquainted with each other-or do you entirely forego the delightful season of courtship?" 
                  Rosalie smiled upon this question being put to her. 
                  "This delightful season, as you term it, is not necessary, as the sentiments usually entertained by both parties were wholly dispassionate; yet, they often did not marry until several weeks after, during which time they generally had some opportunities for intercourse-but they met as friends and rarely became lovers, though their feelings subsequently were apt to warm into a high-toned attachment, which might be considered as an exhibition of pure love in its social and domestic character. You perhaps doubt it, my dear Elsie; but I believe that notwithstanding our methodical, unworldly, and business-like way of getting married, you will find that our married folks are quite as happy as others generally are." 
                  "It may be so," she answered; "but, nevertheless, I candidly confess I think I am too much a child of earth to be happy in a marriage thus formed. And though my heart, under the expansive influence of Christian sympathy and love, might be prompted to feel a Platonic friendship for the whole brotherhood of humanity, yet I am confident, were I to consent to link my fate indissolubly with either of them, I must first entertain a particular personal regard for that individual. Loving and being beloved with entire devotion of heart, I consider as absolutely necessary to insure happiness in marriage. If you, dearest Rosalie, had ever been the recipient of such delightful emotions, and experienced the pleasures of a well-placed reciprocal attachment, methinks you could not possibly content yourself with a husband thus chosen-one whose tastes, habits and disposition, it may be you would find not at all congenial with your own." 
                  "You are speaking under the influence of that passion, I fancy," mildly retorted her friend; "therefore you thus argue; but you judge me not fairly. Such love as you have described was proffered me by one, who shared my childhood's home as my father's ward; and I rejected it, not because an unworthy or unsuitable connection, but the 'lot' decided against it, and doubtless it was wisely ordered, notwithstanding the pang it cost me, for he is now slumbering with the dead." 
                  Sadness passed over the fine countenance of Rosalie Steinberg, as she confessed this early sorrow of her heart, and the conversation was instantly changed. But long did it linger in the mind of Elsie Ashley, with whom the subject had now received additional interest; and she resolved to see and judge for herself, and thus be informed by actual observation, whether the married part of the community were as happy as was represented. 
                  Her opportunities for close observation, however, were much circumscribed, as she visited intimately only in the families of but few of the inhabitants, and they belonged to a superior class of the Society. Among some of these, there appeared to exist the most kindly sentiments of respect and regard for each other, which a sober mutual friendship could inspire; while in several instances, a stronger attachment, bearing a semblance to the most devoted affection, seemed to subsist between the parties. 
                  Yet, withal, it appeared perfectly passionless; and the young girl pondered in astonishment at this new modification of Love-and deeming it passing strange and wonderful to find human nature so refined, that it could thus trample in the dust one of its most tender and dearest instincts, and nevertheless be happy in the conjugal state. 
                  Her speculations upon the subject were interrupted by the unexpected appearance of her cousin Edward, who gave her a sad account of the state of affairs at home. He informed her that the animosity of the contending parties had now become stronger than ever. A more rancorous spirit prevailed, and it extended more or less through the whole of the Valley, and on the banks of the Susquehannah, many miles farther. 
                  There had recently been a very serious outbreak in their neighborhood, between some of the white settlers and their savage foes, which was speedily followed by another, and though both were quickly put down, their natural animosity had not abated, but seemed rather increasing, and much apprehension of further and more bloody hostilities was fearfully anticipated. 
                  Her cousin stated that New Jersey and Pennsylvania were now rapidly filling with troops in preparation for a battle, which many expected soon to take place. He therefore urged Elsie to continue to remain where she was, notwithstanding the wish of Kate and his mother to join them in New York. Elsie promised him she would. He then handed her a bag of coin, after which he hastily left her, to rejoin his father and brother. 
                  It so happened that about this time Elsie found she could be accommodated with lodgings at the Neissers'. 
                  It seems that, like most of the other inhabitants of this Settlement, the Neissers were not the only occupants of their house The-building belonged to them, but they occupied only a small part of it; the rest they let to another Moravian family, who now wished to relinquish one of their apartments. It joined Benigna's; but was a much better room. Elsie no sooner heard this than she made application for it. They gladly accepted her offer much to the joy of Benigna, and to her own satisfaction. 
                  But I am again too fast with my story-she is not there yet but is still in the house with the Brunners; where we leave her until we have related some more of the mischievous Lizzie's sayings and doings. 
                
                
                  CHAPTER X. 
                  WHILE all the events I have just been narrating were transpiring, Lizzie Brenner still pursued the line of conduct she had prescribed to herself-in the mean time continuing to prosecute her inquiries satisfying her curiosity, and forming plans for future action. 
                  As the manner of settling the marriages of the community had fastened upon her mind perhaps more than any other of their observances-besides, afforded the best opportunity of displaying her mischievous and fun-loving propensities, she resolved, as I have already intimated, to make this usage the principal subject of her ridicule. 
                  It so happened she had just been made acquainted with the particulars of this peculiarity, when the single son of her hostess arrived on a visit to his parents. 
                  Lizzie immediately observed that he scarcely noticed any of the female portion of the family-in fact, seemed to avoid their society. Curious to know whether this indifference was real or assumed, she determined to experiment upon him, to ascertain the true state of the case. 
                  In pursuance of this resolution, she made efforts in various ways to attract his attention, but for some time with very little result; next she became devoted to his parents, showing them many little kindnesses. She did this, apparently, so naturally, without the appearance of any design whatever, and altogether with so much delicacy of conduct, that no one suspected her motives. Thus she spread her net to lure her victim. 
                  Still, be it understood, Lizzie Brunner did not consider that she was doing anything particularly wrong-I mean as far as it concerned the young man. In fact she believed herself perfectly excusable. She had her own reasons, she said to herself-she would probably do no harm-but might possibly have a great deal of sport in consequence. 
                  Thus this thoughtless girl reasoned, and hence she continued firm in her purpose; but she was foiled in this plot of hers for the present, by the shortness of the stay of the young man, and the suddeness of his departure. 
                  But Lizzie possessed considerable tact and management-a particularly taking manner, when she chose, to any one, which she assumed only when she had an object to gain. 
                  By dint of the exercise of this talent, she continued to impose upon her hostess and Sister Winny; and to make the latter in particular a complete tool in her hands. She had studied her part well. 
                  The simple-minded Moravian spinster, besides being an authentic source of information on the then existing customs, observances and practices of the Society, was alike familiar with those which were generally in use in the early ages of the renewal of the church. She had her mind stored with all these blessed mementoes of the former happy times among them, as she expressed herself; and, although she could neither read nor write, she was well acquainted with innumerable quaint passages from their writers, both in prose and verse. And nothing delighted her more than to tell them to her pleased and wondering auditor. 
                  In truth, Sister Winny was an inexhaustible fund of information tion of this kind. In fact, the dear Brethren's congregation was all she knew of life-the only world of which she retained any recollection; and she bought their books, though she could not read them; but she cherished them with not less feeling of reverential awe and respect. Thus, although Sister Winny was so sadly deficient in her education, she owned the Bible, the Moravian Hymn Book, Text-Book, and the writings of some of their divines. And they were quite serviceable to her, for the good creature lost not an opportunity to hear their contents from some of the readers in the Society; and as she possessed a very excellent memory, and was remarkably attentive, she remembered considerable of what she thus heard. She had now, indeed, a storehouse of these recollections, as well as of the history of the people; and as the good soul was very communicative when in the mood, Lizzie found her altogether the chronicler she had so earnestly desired. All that was necessary was to preserve her confidence. It was done by appearing deeply interested in her narrations, and manifesting the greatest reverence for the subject. 
                  A portion of the knowledge Lizzie thus acquired, she retailed to Elsie, giving, however, her own version of it. Before her, she so far displayed her real feelings, as to laugh at, and almost ridicule these usages; though a moment after, she would check herself, and affect even, to her, to have considerable reverence and respect for them. But to Elsie her whole conduct seemed a my very. She did not know what to think of her. She mistrusted her sincerity, although she could not penetrate her motives. 
                  In fact, Lizzie's mask was wearing off, in spite of all endeavors to keep it on. 
                  The intimacy of the twain now reached its height. They were on terms of very friendly intercourse, for Lizzie had brought in requisition all her attractive influences to attach Elsie to her. 
                  Still Elsie felt uncomfortable in this close connection, and resolved, without knowing exactly why, to detach herself from it as soon as she conveniently could. Hence, the opportunity of shifting her lodgings to the Neissers was the more gladly embraced. 
                   
                  But ere this event occurred, it will be seen that Lizzie conducted herself in such a manner as to justify the unfavorable impression she had begun to entertain of her. 
                  Only a few days previous to the removal of Elsie from this house, while seated in her own room, situated upon the first floor, and quite near to the kitchen, where Sister Winny was busily engaged in some domestic affairs, Lizzie entered to retail a new edition of information concerning this people, just received from Sister Winny. 
                  "Only think," said she, "how amazingly queer they are-how odd they marry-pairing their folks like stockings, but not matching them as you must gloves. And so particular, too, with their little boys and girls, not allowing them to play together, or even sit side by side. Indeed, I believe they think both of these harmless arrangements as very sinful. Nor do they either, when dead, even permit the brothers and sisters of one famiy to be buried by one another. How very strange this! Is it not!" 
                  "Their ideas on the subject are certainly very singular," replied Elsie; "but as we are not acquainted with their reasons for having such regulations among them, I think we cannot judge fairly of the matter. But being such pious, excellent people, their peculiarities only add to the interest one must feel in their behalf." 
                  "Well, I do not know about that! A part of their notions are certainly very absurd," replied Lizzie. "And really you could not avoid laughing, if you were informed of some of the things Sister Winny has told me." 
                  "What things?" inquired Elsie. 
                  Lizzie hereupon began to narrate them. Elsie was listening to her with an interest blended with surprise, when both heard the following words, in a sort of recitative, from the pious domestic: 
                         
                           "Blest times now we see: A grief it would be, 
                           If we nothing knew, Of Guinea's barb'rous crew, 
                           Stiffick's woody spots, The noisy Hottentots, 
                           The little Wolgar Russians, And St. Crux's Coffins." 
                        
                     
                      Lizzie laughed immoderately. Elsie involuntarily joined her. 
                  "But I believe it is a hymn she is singing," said Elsie, checking herself. "If so, pray do not let us ridicule it." 
                  Lizzie, however, did not stop. 
                  "A hymn!" she replied, "very likely indeed! It is nothing but gibberish, whatever else it may be called-just like a great deal else she tells me-such unintelligible jargon, that no one, not even themselves, I warrant you, can understand it. Now what can be the meaning of all this:-The little Wolgar Russians-and St. Crux's Coffins? All these Russians to be buried in those coffins I suppose." 
                  "Well, really I cannot understand what any of it refers to," answered Elsie; "but I dare say the whole has a very significant meaning." 
                  "Hark!" interrupted Lizzie, "she has changed her tune. I wonder what she is singing now." The words were: 
                         
                           "In Europe, each station, 
                           And beyond the ocean, 
                           In America, and Africa, 
                           Also in Asia." 
                        
                     
                   
                  "Now, do you call this poetry? and a hymn too! And just as difficult, I am sure, as the other to comprehend." 
                  But before either of them could fully catch any part of it, the good woman, as she was in the habit of doing, struck up another: 
                         
                           "Hyperboreis, 
                           Tandem Soriis, 
                           Haply to some soul, 
                           Near the Northern Pole." 
                        
                      And then again another: 
                         
                           "Ye Devils, let me do my task; 
                           Te Angels, your kind aid I ask; 
                           Ye Brethren, love me still; 
                           Ye Foes, let me love you howe'er; 
                           Ye Fellow Lab'rers, help me here: 
                           My working is from no self-will." 
                        
                     
                   
                   
                  "Now, I am certain!" exclaimed Lizzie, "that the first of these was not all English, nor could it be German, but some barbarous language, I fancy; and old Satan himself inspired the second, for don't you observe she is singing of him. Oh, Sister Winny! Sister Winny! this is too bad indeed! too much for saint or sinner." 
                  Lizzie by this time was thrown entirely off her guard. She not only continued laughing, but went on to make sport of the people in the most unsparing terms-mimicking the walk of one-the way another talked, then how other members of the Society sat in church, help their hands, etc., and, singling out other subjects for the like attacks, she was still going on, when Elsie stopped her, having listened to her with the most perfect astonishment until she could no longer remain silent. 
                  "Lizzie Brunner!" she exclaimed, "is it possible that you can speak so?" 
                  "I cannot help it," she replied; "they are altogether so absurd and nonsensical." 
                  "And, with these sentiments, you really meant to join their community!" 
                  This remark brought the thoughtless girl back to reflection. She immediately perceived she had gone too far-it embarrassed her, tears came into her eyes from pure vexation at her imprudent conduct. 
                  Elsie looked at her and noticed her emotion. "I hope you really did not mean what you said," she observed. 
                  "You certainly misunderstood me," was the reply. 
                  "I hope so," quietly responded Elsie. 
                  "I am sure you did-indeed I am, and I would be very sorry if even for a moment you entertained the idea that I intended to make fun of the Moravians in any way whatever; but you know I have such spirits, am so very excitable, have so little self-control, and, besides, such natural fondness for everything droll and amusing. So pray don't think ill of me for what I said just now, and I beg you not to repeat it." 
                  Elsie promised her to try and forget it, provided she was more careful in the future, though far from being satisfied with the excuses she made for her behavior. 
                  Just then, Sister Winny, who happened to be in an unusually tuneful mood, sang the following: 
                         
                           "An image of this wondrous work we view, 
                           In her, whom his kind eye doth still pursue, 
                           The Church of the Brethren, 
                           Who's the Lamb's Esther, 
                           And of the Protestants, the eldest Sister, 
                           And Servant glad." 
                        
                     
                   
                  Here she was interrupted by the entrance of Sister Rosalie into the kitchen. She inquired for Elsie, and but a brief interval afterward the two friends were engaged in an interesting tte-tte.
                   
                  Elsie's mind being so full of what had just occurred, no sooner had Lizzie left them alone than she immediately began to talk to Rosalie about it. 
                  "I do not wonder," said her friend, "that this part of our devotional exercises should be a matter of curiosity to you. I believe, however, that I can explain it all satisfactorily to you. I shall therefore be happy to hear any question you may wish to make in reference to it." 
                  "Thanks, dear Rosalie, for your kindness; I will directly avail myself of your offer. In the first place, then, what is the origin of these singular versifications? And why do you make use of them?" 
                  "I am glad you have thus commenced your interrogatories, because you will probably become the better informed upon the subject. But before I reply to you, we ought to have the English version of our hymns to refer to. I believe Sister Winny has a copy. I will go and borrow it from her." 
                  The book was quickly procured. It was, I believe, the edition published in 1754. 
                  "Now, Elsie, what are the hymns or verses to which you particularly referred?" 
                  All, by the aid of the pious songstress herself, were soon found. 
                   
                  "Well, repeat to me, if you please, dear Elsie, your first query," said Rosalie, smiling. 
                  "I asked the origin of these rhymes?" 
                  "In reply to this question I would say, they were the compositions of some of our very best people, who were more pious than poetical. Indeed, I fancy they had no poetry whatever in them; yet they doubtless imagined themselves possessed of the gift-more especially, as really much good has been effected by them, strange and singular productions as some of them certainly are. The three first are parts of missionary hymns-and all the places or countries mentioned are stations the Brethren have planted among different heathen nations." 
                  "But what means this allusion to coffins?" interrupted Elsie. 
                  "It refers to the great mortality which prevailed in the Island of St. Croix, among the missionaries when they first went thither to establish a station. We have several other verses in allusion to this sad circumstance; one of which reads thus: 
                         
                           "Ten in the earth were sown as seed. 
                           Lost to man's expectation. 
                           Yet on their graves, our faith doth read 
                           Seed of the Negro nation.' 
                        
                      And you must know, my dear Elsie," continue d Rosalie, "such was the devotion of our people, notwithstanding it frequently happened that the same vessel which took out a company of these self-sacrificing heralds of salvation to the poor, enslaved Africans, brought back the intelligence of all having fallen victims to the climate, every one being numbered with the dead-yet others were always speedily found to supply the place of their perished brethren and sisters. And it was under the influence, or inspiration I may term it, of such verses as these, and the two following ones you mentioned, that they went forth as willing victims, to die for the salvation of their fellow-men." 
                  "How very interesting all this is," said Elsie, "and tow truly good and zealous in the cause these missionaries of yours must have been; but how curiously some of these hymns are worded." Then, taking up the Hymn Book, and looking over its pages, she read this stanza: 
                         
                           "The Lamb's wounds' purple glances, 
                           Whence health commences, 
                           Our wedges are, and lances, 
                           In the world's heart." 
                        
                     
                   
                  "Now what can be the meaning of all this? It has its own signification, doubtless, but very strangely rendered." 
                  "It refers altogether to the sufferings of our Saviour-the burden of most of our hymns, as well as the favorite subject of our discourses, and theme of contemplation. This verse was originally in German, and, like many others, is very badly translated." 
                  "Here is another, Rosalie, which, pray be kind enough to explain to me: 
                         
                           "Holy seven Spirits, find Wicks, then take them, 
                           Fit them for Lamps, soon kindle them, and make them 
                           Bright round the Lamb." 
                        
                     
                   
                  Rosalie took the book, glanced through the hymn, then replied with seriousness: 
                  "These lines were suggested by this prophecy of Isaiah:-'The Spirit of the Lord shall rest upon him-the spirit of wisdom and understanding, the spirit of counsel and might, the spirit of knowledge and of the fear of the Lord.' And this is generally the case with our hymns; some portion of Scripture being in the mind of the pious writer when he penned it." 
                  "But how singularly this one is expressed!" 
                  "That is, as I told you, because a great many of our dear brethren and sisters in Germany wrote verses who were neither poets, nor had any proper ideas of poetry. They were in a state of ecstatic piety-in a constant religious excitement. Then they supposed themselves inspired, which made them commit many absurdities, besides producing these queer rhymes. Yet, how-ever, it is no less true than strange, that although they were written nearly half a century ago, and have been out of favor with a considerable number of our people for a long time, yet many would be very sorry to have them kept out of our new collection." 
                  "Yes; I have frequently noticed the old folks shed tears while singing some of these Moravian hymns," said Elsie; "but as I understand only a little German, I did not know what affected them so much. But this reminds me, Rosalie, of a circumstance about your hymns which occurred only a few days ago. I happened to be in the Widows' House, when I heard one of the old Sisters singing; I listened, and heard these words"-searching the hymn book as she spoke- 
                         
                           "'Plur, Gloria, 
                           And Memoria,' 
                        
                      "and several other similar lines, which I cannot find here. All of them, I think, are Latin; I could not make out their meaning; I therefore inquired. The Sister repeated the words. 'I really cannot understand it,' said I; 'Nor I, either,' replied this old lady. 'Then why do you sing it?' I asked. 'Because,' answered she, 'although I do not know what this verse means, it always makes me so particularly happy, that I think it must be remarkably fine;' and she wept as she spoke. Now what do you think of this, Rosalie?" 
                  "Why, that she is probably an old simple-hearted Moravian Sister, a real Herrnhutter; perhaps the daughter, sister, or widow of some of these ancient rhymers of the Society. I have talked with a number of these good old souls, and found that apparently they neither reasoned nor judged for themselves, but were perfectly happy and content in adopting the portraiture of the thoughts and feelings of others, no matter how ridiculous they were. They must consider these opinions and judgments so all-sufficient that it is not necessary for them to have any of their own. It is a pity they do so; as some of these Sisters, in consequence, seem really so simple that they almost appear to be fools." 
                  At this moment Sister Winny entered the room with a letter for Elsie, which Put a stop to this conversation. 
                
                
                   
                  CHAPTER XI. 
                  WEEKS and months have glided down the stream of time since we last spoke of the Tracys and Benigna Waldemar. We return to them now, just as the winter season is breaking up, and spring is near at hand. 
                  Since we have noticed them, little Emily's health has realty much improved. She and her friend, Benigna, have had a real pleasant time of it-no interruption to their intercourse-every day being more or less together. They were living on in a state of happy enjoyment, constantly loving each other more and more. 
                  In the meanwhile, Mrs. Tracy became quite a frequent visitor at the Neisser'. Indeed, she began to be so ever since Elsie had taken up her residence with them. 
                  It is astonishing how very much acquaintance changed the feelings of prejudice which the Mother had for these two ladies. They were new high in her favor. She regarded them both with real affection, and delighted in speaking of her worldly friends, the Tracys and the Ashleys, They, in turn, were pleased with the quaint manners, sincerity, uprightness, and simplicity of character of both herself and husband. 
                  Mother Neisser was an excellent housekeeper; and no one in the place knew how to make better crullers, doughnuts, apple-cake, and pies than she did. Indeed, she never prepared any article indifferently-whatever she placed upon her table being remarkably savory and good. And Mrs. Tracy, with Elsie, now had an opportunity of knowing this-the former lady, with her little daughter, being her frequent invited guests at different meals; at least during the early part of that winter. Afterwards they were, in a great measure, prevented by an afflictive domestic calamity presently to be told. 
                  During this intimate companionship, Mrs. Tracy became more and more interested in Benigna Waldemar; while Elsie watched over her with a sister's fond affection. The child, though now far more serious and thoughtful than formerly, was evidently, at this period, lighter of heart and happier in feelings than for several months previous. 
                  It is a pity to disturb this happiness-to interrupt the quiet bliss of all these amiable people. Yet such is life-an ever-changing panorama-a shifting scene of clouds and sunshine, of joys and sorrows. 
                  This is the certain experience of all of us-none can escape-from the highest to the lowest of the human family-the richest to the poorest among them, whatever be their rank or condition here, all learn to know the mutability of this sublunary state; and that smiles and tears both belong to earth as well as the sunshine and the storm; that the cup we have to drink is mixed, the bitter with the sweet-and well for us to realize, that though the sunlight is pleasant, there is a shadow to its brightness, and that the sweets of life often have their bitterness even in the enjoyment. 
                  As the most delightful weather often precedes a tempest, so in life; our happiest moments are frequently the precursors of sorrow and trouble. And it became the lot of little Benigna Waldemar, at this period, to make this sad experience. About the close of February, clouds began to rise upon the beautiful horizon of her domestic happiness-to overshadow her young heart, and oppress it with innumerable cares, griefs, and trials. 
                  First, Father Neisser was struck with paralysis, which not only disabled him from his accustomed business, but rendered him almost helpless. It very much affected his right side, while his poor old head shook terribly. 
                  This calamity was a great shock to the Mother, who, though still far from well, had, in the enjoyment of her newly acquired friends, passed truly a pleasant season. Her spirits became immediately very much depressed in consequence; in addition, she discovered her eye-sight failing; it dimmed and dimmed more every day, which could not but increase her dejection. Troubles seldom come singly. So it proved at present with this family, for soon afterwards their tenants gave them notice of their intention tion to move-thus leaving the most of their house vacant, besides making that deficiency in their income. 
                  It so happened, about the same time, poor little Benigna Waldemar heard the afflictive intelligence of her aunt Annie's death, from a malignant fever which prevailed throughout the whole of the neighborhood where she lived. Several others of the family besides herself were attacked by this epidemic; but the rest recovered, except her uncle John, who still continued very ill with It. So wrote another uncle of the child's, her uncle Edmund, who also informed her that she had a baby cousin, who was called by her name, Ellinor Waldemar. 
                  This was the first letter the young orphan had ever received. This circumstance alone would have made it very interesting to her; but, apart from this consideration, the contents were of such a nature as to awaken in the heart of the affectionate and sensitive girl the keenest emotions of sensibility. Her uncle gave her a very particular account of the death of her aunt-of the strong affection she ever felt toward her, manifested even to the close of her life. She had always regretted parting with Ellinor; but that feeling passed away as she neared eternity-then she considered the event as wisely ordered. "But tell her," said she, "that I loved her not the less, though I submitted to the sacrifice." 
                  "And as a proof of this, my dear Ellinor," continued he, "she was constantly thinking what she could do for you. And, although in feeble health ever since we have been here, and laboring under peculiar embarrassments to procure the requisite materials, she contrived to make you several necessary articles of clothing, some of which you have already received, and the others will be sent as soon as possible. Besides, when dying, your dear aunt Annie desired that fifty guineas of her portion of money in the strong box should be given to you as the last memento of her love. This, however, you cannot get until after this cruel war ceases, when your own share will at the same time be handed to you." 
                  Her uncle then spoke of her future. He explained to her, fully, the present situation of the family-in an unhealthy locality, and destitute of many of the needful comforts of life. He told her of the anxieties of her grandmother with respect to her-of their promises in consequence, and that he and her other uncles, believing her present condition to be far more desirable than theirs, had decided to let her remain with Father and Mother Neisser; and to consider the present arrangement they had made with the old people as a permanent one. Hence they would no more interfere with their wishes in this matter. Her uncle went on further to give Benigna a great deal of good advice, assuring her, at the same time, of their continued interest and affection for her, and impressing upon her, in as forcible language as he could, the fact of the whole family, one and all, ever loving her dearly; and that nothing but dire necessity had permitted their agreeing to this separation. 
                  This letter had a very powerful effect upon Benigna. The death of her aunt was a sore trial to the young orphan, for she always had been exceedingly fond of her, and in return was assured of the warm affection of that kind, loving heart. Benigna had rested upon it, and she associated this beloved relative in all her bright and joyous future; she ever hoped that aunt Annie and herself would again be reunited and enjoy a world of happiness together. 
                  This delightful vision now faded from her heart, and the certainty of being henceforth permanently separated from the rest of her kindred, sent a chill to the very soul of the child. The present situation of Father Neisser perhaps made these circumstances press more painfully upon her heart The poor little girl found herself in a peculiarly embarrassing position, which, though so young, her sensitive nature felt most keenly. 
                  Benigna knew it, for she was repeatedly told that her adopted parents probably would no longer be able to provide for themselves, and consequently be unable to take care of her. Yet the old people would not for a moment hear of being relieved of their charge, not even when Bishop Steinberg asked them. 
                  "She is our greatest blessing and comfort," the Mother answered in reply, "and nothing but death shall separate us." 
                   
                  And thus did the little Benigna Waldemar continue to live on with this afflicted pair-the child of penury, if not of want although had renewed his offer of adoption, prefacing it with a liberal present to the childless couple. 
                  By particular request, he promised that his generous proposition should be carefully concealed from the little girl; yet, when that sensitive young being, in her feeling of dependence and desolation, sobbed her griefs upon the maternal bosom of Mrs Tracy her kind friend could not forbear, as she wiped away her tears to assure her the was not the isolated orphan she supposed herself to be, but that the were hearts which longed to embrace her as their own, to hail her as their daughter. 
                  This was, indeed, comforting to that poor child's heart. It encouraged her in the arduous duties now imposed upon her and they were not few. 
                  Benigna now found enough to do, in assisting as far as she could in the domestic affairs of the household-besides in attending to the old gentleman, in cutting up his food-feeding him together with ministering to many of his necessities. 
                  And truly faithfully, and with the most perfect devotion of character, did this sweet girl perform her appointed task, striving meanwhile always to be contented and cheerful. 
                  The admirable conduct of one so young and tender, under these trying circumstances, commanded universal attention and respect, while it excited great interest in her behalf. Everybody seemed to regard the dear child with especial favor and Jove for her devoted spirit, self-denying labor of filial duty; and a general disposition prevailed to lighten her load of anxious care. 
                  Soon afterwards the pecuniary prospects of the Neissers began to brighten in consequence of the Father's shop, together with a portion of the disposable rooms of his dwelling, receiving tenants; very quiet, respectable, and orderly people, but not belonging to the place, nor to the Society. 
                  Almost immediately after this last occurrence, Doctor Tracy, With Frederick, unexpectedly arrived to bear the family away with them, preparatory to their leaving for Europe to join the husband and the father. 
                  The Doctor intended to place them under the charge of a gentleman, a friend of theirs, married to a French lady of large expectations from wealthy relatives. One of these had recently deceased. They were going to France for the purpose of securing a valuable property which this individual bequeathed to her. They secured a passage in a French frigate, to sail during the coming week, where the Doctor fortunately was able to obtain the like accommodations for his brother's family. 
                  It was a sad parting between the little girls. To Benigna it proved especially distressing-and no marvel at this either, since she lost so much of her little all of earthly human ties by their departure. In fact, I question if Emily, dearly as she loved her friend, felt the separation very keenly, except on Benigna's account, as her little heart had so many bright and happy anticipations to mingle with her sorrow. 
                  But the intensity of feeling manifested by Benigna was enough completely to unnerve her as well as her mother. The poor child wept bitterly, clinging to them both in the agony of her grief. 
                  The good Doctor was very much affected by it-and then again he pleaded permission to be allowed a father's care towards that lonely one; but with no success whatever, save the permission granted to be her friend and benefactor. He had brought Benigna quite a variety of presents-some interesting, useful books, and a couple of new dresses; to these he now added several pieces of gold coin. 
                  Mrs. Tracy, too, had her gifts to bestow; but the sight of them, instead of affording the child any pleasure, seemed only to add to her sorrow. The poor little girl had no other playmate besides-no other juvenile companion to divert her thoughts and feelings, when almost overcome by her present peculiarly trying situation. No marvel then at her distress, and her being so afflicted at this providence. 
                  "And I am afraid that you will forget me, dear Emily, when you are away in that far-off country," sobbed out the distresed girl. 
                  "Indeed she will not," replied her mother. 
                  "And, perhaps," said Emily, "I may come back again when I am big, and stay with you a long while. Shall I coax papa and mamma to bring me?" 
                  "Oh, pray do!" was the answer; "and until then I will think of you very often, and always love you." 
                  "And we will all ever continue to love you dearly, my sweet child," said Mrs. Tracy, affectionately kissing her; "and should we return to this country, we will certainly come here again. In the meanwhile, we intend to write to you, and you must answer our letters." 
                  This idea pleased Benigna very much. 
                  "And will you indeed send me letters, and will Emily write?" "We certainly will; and now may God bless you, my dear, and remember that we will always be your friends." 
                  And these kind words and promises of the future somewhat comforted the child, and softened the pang of their separation. 
                  From this date, however, the change which had really taken place in Benigna Waldemar became more apparent than ever. She was so thoughtful-had such an anxious countenance-seemed disposed at times to be so very sad-and, indeed, appeared to realize more deeply than before, her lonely and isolated lot, together with the hardships of her present situation. She evidently pined for her absent friends, and would frequently, even in her sleep, sob out their names. Once Elsie surprised her weeping bitterly. 
                  "What is the matter, dear?" she tenderly inquired. "Everybody I love is going where I cannot see them," she replied, "and presently I shall be alone in the world-no mother, no sister, aunt or kind uncle or friend to love me." 
                  "Do not say so, my dear sweet little girl," answered Elsie, pressing her close in a warm, loving embrace. "Benigna, dear, you must not think so; you will always have plenty of friends." 
                  Yet the child continued to weep. 
                   
                  "But, dear Miss Ashley, if only I had a mother, a real mother, like Mrs. Tracy, how glad I should be! And I have been thinking too, that you wont stay here always, and then how dreadfully lonely I will be, and I can't help crying." 
                  In truth, the little girl, though she could not find language to express it, was realizing the difference of character between the sober, disciplined feelings of those who had the charge of her-kind though they meant to be, and certainly were in their way-and the warm gush of unrestrained, genuine affection, which had been so freely lavished upon her-first by her kindred, then by the Tracys and Elsie Ashley. She found, comparatively, no responsive sympathy to her warm, ardent nature, in the love manifested to her by her adopted parents. They loved her, she knew, and so did others in that community; and though she did not question the sincerity of their regard, she craved something more congenial to her own strongly, ardently loving disposition. 
                  Elsie understood the conflict of feeling which now agitated the highly sensitive Benigna. It deeply pained her to see her thus affected. She strove again to comfort the poor child, and presently she succeeded in soothing her, by kindly sympathy and affectionate endearments. 
                  But she ever remembered this tte--tte with the young orphan, when she thus poured out the desolation of her heart, the spirit-yearnings of her nature for companionship with its kind; and it but added to her interest in this child of sorrow. 
                
                
                  CHAPTER XII. 
                  SCARCELY had Elsie left the house where the Brunners lodged, ere the son of the hostess returned again home. Lizzie, intent upon her object, immediately busied herself to accomplish it. From pure mischief, as I have stated, she determined to attach him to her. The reason she afterwards gave was, that she wished to ascertain whether a Moravian could really fall in love. 
                  But Lizzie had to exercise her peculiar tact of management considerably ere she met with any encouragement whatever. 
                  The prohibitory rules and regulations of the Moravians being then still in full force, the unmarried folks were so closely watched, that she found it exceedingly difficult to have any personal communication with the young man. 
                  But every obstacle only stimulated her the more in this enterprise. She had, in consequence, however, to puzzle her brains much ere she could devise a successful plan of operation. 
                  Besides, she found the youth very shy, totally ignorant of coquettish attentions; he was so scrupulous, fearful, and exceedingly conscientious withal. Yet she ultimately succeeded, and he became completely her captive. Then, did Lizzie sport with his feelings, and cast him off as a worthless plaything? My answer to this query is no; and the reason was, the girl had been caught in her own trap. The fact is, she had become almost too much interested in her victim, and she loved him passing well. 
                  He was, as I have described him, quite a common-place young man, both in endowments and acquirements, but rather good-looking; he was poor-a teacher of little boys, and had some intention of entering the ministry. 
                  And Lizzie Brunner really fancied she loved him; and lie, forgetting alike the promises and pledges of his Brotherhood, and his duty to his Church, plighted his troth to this thoughtless, foolish girl, so very unsuited to him in every way, but more particularly unfitted to be the wife of any clergyman whatever. 
                  For a period now, clandestine interviews and a secret correspondence occurred between the parties; yet it was perfectly impossible to keep an affair of this kind long concealed. 
                  The young man, fearful of detection and the consequences to himself, became exceedingly unhappy, and troubled with anxious apprehensions. Then he reproached himself bitterly; for had he not been guilty of a dreadful sin in not resisting his fair temptress? He was unfaithful to his Church, and no longer worthy to be called her son. 
                  White thus distressed he received a summons from his elder to a Sprechen. This was a serious conversation, usually altogether upon religious matters, where the spiritual interests of their charge were particularly noticed-a practice frequently observed by the Moravians in those times. 
                  To this appointed confidential friend, the poor young man now unburdened his heart of this secret trouble, and candidly told him the whole affair. Next it became the subject of Conference meeting. In consequence, the young man immediately afterwards left the Settlement, and about the same time Lizzie Brunner received a visit, when she too was sprechened, and told she must directly leave the place But the wily girl took on such a tone of penitence, appeared so truly sorry for what she had done, and made so many promises of amendment, that the good Moravian people kindly forgave her, and permitted her to remain. Yet they now recommenced watching her more closely, and again put the young part of their community upon their guard concerning her. 
                  From the date of these occurrences, only a few days intervened, when Rosalie Steinberg, accompanied by her father, went to visit a highly valued friend living about twenty miles distant, who was in declining health. Elsie, with whom she had now become intimate and in almost daily association, missed her greatly, and very much regretted her absence. 
                  About a fortnight later, Elsie received a letter from her cousin Edward, evidently written in great haste, under strong excitement, and with considerable anxious apprehensions, because of the perilous position himself and family were placed in by the savages in the neighborhood. He said the state of the whole surrounding country had become truly alarming, and dangerous to the safety of the white population generally. The most dreadful threats had been uttered, and the most fearful results were anticipated; which were speedily realized, for the very next day following the one upon which he wrote, they were surprised by a party of these lawless aborigines, who, after plundering the house of everything valuable, had set fire to the premises, captured its inmates, consisting of Mr. Walton, his sons and domestics, and carried them away. Their lives only were spared through the interposition of one of the murderous gang, because, fortunately, he happened to be under great personal obligations to Mr. Walton. Their captors took them no body knew where; but it was conjectured they went to Canada. 
                  A rumor of this distressing catastrophe soon reached the Settlement, and, as usual, somewhat exaggerated; for it said that the whole family were murdered. It caused deep grief to the heart of Elsie Ashley, and for a space she refused to be comforted, and, in fact, became almost distracted; and she continued in this sad condition until she heard, from various sources, the true state of the case, and received a positive assurance that none of her family were killed; and, with the hopeful disposition of her nature, this was sufficient to allow her to indulge in pleasing anticipations of seeing them again. 
                  But clouds of anxiety would sometimes pass over her mind, disturbing its serenity; then she occupied herself in some useful pursuit, which tended much to tranquillize her mind. 
                  She instructed her little friend Benigna Waldemar, now dearer to Her than ever. The child continued to go to school, but not regularly, on account of the condition of the old gentleman. Elsie attended altogether to the cultivation of her mind, and to teach her to write with English letters. Besides this, she assisted the young orphan in her onerous duty of filial attention to her adopted parents; thus lightening the cares of the little girl, and rendering her the happier and more cheerful. 
                  The heart of Elsie Ashley, with a keen sense of her own bereavements, at this period kindled with livelier interest and sympathy towards that isolated one, who had so much earlier than herself become acquainted with life's saddest woes; and, as she looked upon her fair, delicate countenance, and marked how sorrow had already clouded its lovely lineaments, she resolved to take her more closely to her affection, and, while opportunity offered, do all in her power to render her young life pleasant and happy. 
                  Her wail of lamentation, when the Tracys left, she could never forget. She then looked into the very depths of the heart of that fond, sensitive little being. And now as she thought of her future, she was lost in a maze of conjecture as to what would probably be her ultimate destiny. She often wondered, should the sweet child survive to womanhood with her strong susceptibilities, her warm, ardent, loving nature, if she could ever submit to the regulation of her church, and marry "by lot." She deemed this a perfect impossibility, and thought that, instead, she would feel herself compelled to a life of celibacy. She was still very impulsive-the sport of her own feelings-noble, generous, and kind-hearted-disinterested in her nature-always wishing to please, and to make others happy. Elsie had observed these to be her prominent characteristics. 
                  Yet these blossoming virtues, and charming traits of disposition, were even then being, moulded into another form by a course of rigidly exacting discipline; and now, more than ever, was her young mind to be subjected to this fettering influence, since death prevented the claim which nature had demanded. 
                  She was taught to regard the sad event of her several bereavements, as probably a particular providence to decide her place of habitation. 
                  And thus Benigna ever considered it; henceforth yielding a hearty willing submission and obedience to every requisition and exaction expected of her; and I have casually heard several anecdotes illustrating some of the beautiful traits of her natural disposition, which, although they did not all occur just at this period, I here give: 
                  Upon uncle John's last visit, he gave his little niece a number of pennies-how many I do not know. These pennies were in her own possession. She kept them clean and bright, and made them look as well us the pieces of gold Doctor Tracy subsequently presented to her. As coin of every kind was rather scarce in those days, the child set a very high value upon them. She had them not long, however, when Bishop Steinberg mentioned in her hearing, the pressing want of money for the missionary cause, and told of the necessities of the poor heathen. Benigna immediately softly stole out of the room, gathered together her store of pennies, returned, and placed them in the Bishop's hand, the voluntary offering of her little heart. 
                  Again. A family of German emigrants arrived at the Settlement just after the dresses were made which Doctor Tracy presented to her. The children were in a ragged condition. Benigna saw them. Her compassion was excited. Quick as thought she ran for one of her new dresses, which she would have given to the Mother had she not been prevented. 
                  Another, and I must be done. The Neissers raised silk-worms. A small portion of them were placed under the care of Benigna, as her own, with the understanding that all the profit of them should belong to her. She carefully attended to them, and the amount of money she realized from the silk the first year was a little more than two dollars. Instead of appropriating it to her own use, as she had a right, she put it in the heathen box with the request that it might be applied for the benefit of the Indians; the very tribe, if possible, who had destroyed, the homestead of the family. 
                  And the dear little girl seemed so delighted with Elsie's instruction; was grateful and affectionate in return; and, withal, continually manifested towards her so many endearing qualities of character, that no marvel if it but added to her interest in her behalf. Thus Elsie found the duty exceedingly pleasant, which she had imposed on herself, of cultivating her pure young mind, while Rosalie and her elderess, together with the other members of the community who watched over her religious state, continued to have their own satisfaction and happy anticipations concerning this fair blossom of their spiritual nursery. 
                  Elsie greatly missed her friend Rosalie; it tended to make her the more inclined to despondency. In the interval of her absence, various were the feelings which agitated her. But she continued to live on the promises of hope, although the cloud of uncertainty rested as impenetrably as ever upon the whereabouts of her beloved relatives. 
                  Her aunt still continued in New York with her cousin Kate, who had recently lost her only child. Both were very much depressed about the fate of the dear scattered members of their family. They wrote very despondingly to Elsie, whom they earnestly desired to come to them; but she found this impossible-no opportunity offering to journey in that direction, except occasionally in a stage, a conveyance often filled with such a rude and boisterous set, as to render it very unpleasant, as well as highly improper, for a young girl like her to travel in them alone and unprotected. 
                  Besides, in the event of Edward being still alive, he would first seek her there, as she promised him to remain in the Settlement. Besides, another consideration of some importance influenced her. It will be recollected that her cousin, in several of his hurried visits to her, had brought with him considerable money and plate, together with various other valuables belonging to the family. In short, everything desirable to be saved, which he could conveniently carry about his person, or upon his horse. 
                  He had intrusted these various articles to her keeping, believing they would be safer with her than at Wyoming. If she went to New York, she would wish to take them all to his mother, which, of course, in the present state of the country, abounding with lawless soldiery, was entirely out of the question. This inability to comply with the wishes of her aunt and cousin made her very sad. And, in pondering upon the subject, also the possible situation of her uncle and cousins, she allowed her imagination to brood over prospective troubles, until she became perfectly miserable. 
                  At this period, Elsie realized to the full the painfulness of her situation, for, notwithstanding she had become almost as one of the Moravians, and earnestly desired their sympathy, she asked it not, nor told the cause of much of her secret sorrow; but nursed her grief in silence, because, from the nature of it, she did not expect them to understand her feelings. 
                  Perhaps, if Rosalie Steinberg had been near her in those moments ments of suffering, she being such a sensible and affectionate girl, Elsie might have made an exception with regard to her, and confided her troubles to her; but, unfortunately, she continued absent. To Heaven, then, alone could that desolate and afflicted child of humanity turn to look for solace; nor did she seek it there in vain. Her paroxysms of agonizing apprehensions disappeared, and, supported by her faith and love, again she permitted herself to listen to the sweet whisperings of hope, and to indulge in fond dreams of the future. 
                
                
                  CHAPTER XIII. 
                  IN the meanwhile the war continued with unabated vigor, and with no prospect of a permanent cessation of hostilities. Then again the whole of the surrounding country filled with troops. The principal seat of action was still at the North. The contending parties were now resting from a severe battle, and preparing for another. A portion of the American army retired to this Settlement with their sick and wounded, besides some prisoners. Here now was seen a vast array of military. 
                  As Elsie saw them, she thought of the battle-field near Grace-hill six years before; the scenes she had witnessed there-her father's sufferings and death-her mother's-and then her own trials at this sad period; and the young girl shuddered as her mind recurred to that season of sore affliction. Then she pondered upon her present situation, and she wept at the vision remembrance conjured up of the horrors of war. 
                  The Moravians, from principle, being averse to warlike proceedings of every kind, it made the coming of these belligerents in their midst particularly disagreeable to them, and they fain would have got rid of them as quickly as possible, and, beguiled by promises, they had hoped ere this such would have been the case, but, instead, were compelled to provide for a considerable number more this winter than previously. 
                   
                  Accommodations had to be found for all these persons, a portion of whom were quartered upon the peaceable inhabitants of the town, and in some instances were so closely stowed together, as to oblige them to sleep spoon-fashion, and upon the floor, much to the discomfort and inconvenience of the family. 
                  Indeed, a stranger to the peculiarities of the Society of that day could scarcely realize the annoyance the whole of this arrangement occasioned to the quiet order and pacific disposition of that Moravian community, or how it interfered with their systematical rules and regulations. Those which referred to their unmarried folks were particularly affected by it-their mateless Brethren being deprived of their usual residence, while their maiden Sisterhood, in consequence, became the objects of anxious solicitude and apprehensions-more especially, as some of these strangers were scarcely in the Settlement ere they were attracted to several of these Sisters, and seemed disposed to give trouble on their account. 
                  Precautionary measures, therefore, were immediately taken to secure these precious ones of their fold as much as possible from the gaze and attention of these people. For this purpose all of the Sisterhood were removed to the Sisters' House, where they could be kept more secluded from observation than in their own homes. Then they were gathered together in their own Chapel, where the settled minister of the congregation counselled them regarding their conduct, and warned them against these men of war. He forbade the Sisterhood from doing aught which might attract their notice, and in church not even to look in the direction where they were seated. 
                  Strict regulations were in like manner directly made, in reference to their behavior in the Sisters' House, some of which were found rather difficult to enforce. For instance, the young inmates were prohibited ever from appearing at the windows, lest they should be seen; but, as might be expected, no sooner did they hear the least of a drum than a portion of them at least were tempted to disobey. Thus their vigilant guardians had enough to do to watch them. 
                   
                  Elsie, in consequence of these restrictions, had now for a space to do all the visiting between herself and Rosalie. On the first opportunity she asked her friend- 
                  "How long, dear Rosalie, are you to be thus caged?" 
                  "Why, really, I do not know. I am afraid, for a considerable time, since there is no prospect of our single Brethren being able to obtain possession of their house." 
                  "But suppose the war should last ten years longer, think you this restriction would not be considered so burdensome, to some of you at least, that you might be tempted to break through it?" 
                  "I trust not! But I hope and pray we may never be subject to this temptation." 
                  "Well, what harm would you anticipate, should this really be the case?" asked Elsie, smiling. 
                  Rosalie shrugged her shoulders, and looked very grave. Elsie continued- 
                  "Pray what danger do you apprehend?" 
                  "Why, the most disastrous effects upon our piety and our zeal! We would soon lose our child-like faith and simple reliance upon our Saviour, and become, like too many of the rest of the world, seekers of our own gratification only, acting according to our own natural inclinations." 
                  "I do not understand exactly what you mean, Rosalie. If you refer to a marriage based upon worldly affection alone, I cannot find anything so dreadfully wicked in that. Besides, we are but following one of the laws of our nature which God himself has implanted in us. Has not he himself sanctioned this intercourse between us and the brotherhood of humanity? for you know Adam was scarcely created ere infinite wisdom decided that it was not good for man to be alone. God did not then choose to make another man for his first associate, but gave him a woman to be his helpmate, companion, and friend." 
                  "You argue well, dear Elsie," replied Rosalie; laughing; "but you remember God did not permit Adam a choice." 
                  "True! but then he knew, of course, exactly what he would naturally like the best!-what would most conduce to his happiness!" 
                  "But you forget that as yet Adam had not sinned." "No, I do not; but if, with sinless perfection, just after he had made him, and that too in his own image, his earthly happiness, even in the beautiful bowers of Eden, would best be secured in having fellowship with woman, surely it cannot but be natural that fallen humanity should have the same cravings, and like this association." 
                  "It is natural, I admit," answered Rosalie; "but remember this first companionship brought death into the world, and all our woe." 
                  "And the second twain we read of, my dear Rosalie, you recollect, did no better. The one killed the other, though they were alone in brotherhood." 
                  But the one sin was the consequence of the other!" 
                  "Yes, it certainly was; but perhaps if Adam had had such a companion given him as Cain, instead of his Eve, Satan might have employed some other means to stain his soul with sin, than the tasting of a forbidden fruit. It may be he would have made use of the high intellectual powers of man; then stamped the image of his own hateful nature upon him, filling him with, pride, revenge, and murderous feelings, until, like Cain, the one would have destroyed the other." 
                  Rosalie shuddered. 
                  "You are wandering now away, far from reality. We have no right, I think, to speculate in this manner. But I plainly see, Elsie, from this language of yours, you do not approve of these separate institutions of ours; or rather, of our regulation of non intercourse." 
                  "You are right! I do not; and simply because I cannot think it either reasonable or necessary. But, my dear Rosalie, notwithstanding that I do not coincide in your opinion regarding this subject, yet I cannot but respect the whole arrangement, because of the strong, pious feelings which originated this measure; perhaps I do not yet comprehend you fully, and may presently think differently of it." 
                   
                  Almost directly after this conversation, on account of the gallant propensities of the military characters, to whom I alluded at the commencement of this chapter, the Sisterhood were kept more closely confined to their establishment; and at this time, Elsie, too, sought a refuge in this asylum, Mother Neisser having now a number of soldiers in her house. 
                  I have hinted that some of the Sisterhood were not very obedient to the new rules and regulations. Wilhelmina Leitner was perhaps the most frequent of these transgressors, and many if severe sprechen did the poor girl receive in consequence. This naughtiness was not premeditated, but altogether the result of a thoughtless, impulsive nature, which, while under the parental roof, had been accustomed to much indulgence. Martial music pleased her fancy more than any other. It is no marvel, therefore, that she instinctively drew as near as possible, to listen to it; and sometimes she really forgot herself so far, as to push the thick curtain aside, and her fair face peeped out. More than once she quickly retreated-blushing, as she met the eye of the elegant and fascinating Lieutenant Morris. In fact, through this indiscretion of hers, the place of their retreat was discovered to her lover, as well as to Captain Vincent and Lieutenant Lee-the former the admirer of Elsie Ashley, while the latter professed to be very much enamored with Pauline Englehart. 
                  All of these officers were respectable, honorable gentlemen, and belonged to good families; but neither of them had had any opportunity of forming a personal acquaintance with their sweet nuns, as they called them, except Lieutenant Morris, who managed to introduce himself to Wilhelmina while still residing with her parents, and had several brief interviews with her. He was not only struck with her beauty, but charmed with her simplicity of manners and artlessness. He found himself more and more interested in her, until he determined to win her if he could. 
                  The Moravians did not then encourage early marriages, very few of the females marrying while in their teens. And previous to their arriving at the age of eighteen, they were not admitted into the band of the Sisterhood; but from the age of twelve until that time, they were ranked in a class denominated Great Girls, where they were gradually prepared to fulfil the duties of maturity. 
                  Wilhelmina Leitner was, therefore, not yet considered eligible for matrimony; and no thoughts of the kind had entered her young head. The parents having strictly adhered to the Moravian rules, the subject of her marriage had never been broached in her presence. Hence this innocent girl, not suspecting Lieutenant Morris to mean anything serious by his flattering words, was both pleased and amused with his fine compliments. She manifested a child-like pleasure whenever she saw him, while he, in turn, became more and more captivated by her. 
                  The pensive beauty of the lovely English orphan had directly penetrated the heart of the gallant Captain Vincent, who longed to share her sorrows and sympathize in her griefs, hoping that this participation, together with the devotion he felt, would elicit reciprocal sentiments. 
                  But the most conspicuous in point of striking loveliness of appearance, among all that group of Sister maidens, was Pauline Englehart-a fragile, consumptive-looking young creature, with a complexion fine as Parian marble, cheeks tinged with the most delicate roseate hue, and very black eyes, which sparkled with uncommon brilliancy when under the least excitement. Lieutenant Lee had but once seen her thus, yet this proved quite sufficient to completely fascinate him. 
                  Besides the officers, several of the soldiery had favorites among the Sisterhood. Two of them were daring, reckless young men, fond of adventure, with rash and impetuous tempers, ever impatient of restraint. The twain had long been intimate associates, but now a like interest bound them together as friends. They adopted plan after plan to effect their object; and some were tried, but in every one they were foiled. Still they determined to persevere, resolving that, if every other effort failed, they would have recourse to stratagem to accomplish their purpose. Affection, however, did not prompt them as much as the excitement of such an enterprise, though Dorothea Stoltz was pretty enough to have caused this feeling. 
                   
                  Two of the officers were presently favored with fulfilment of their wishes in proffering their suits-with what success will directly be seen; and soon afterwards a train of events occurred which brought the love affairs of all these gallants to a crisis. 
                  Elsie Ashley, at this period an inmate of the Sisters' House, was not trammelled by the same restrictions as her companions. As she did not belong to the Society, she had permission to pass in and out during the day as much as she pleased. 
                  Elsie still continued her instructions to Benigna Waldemar. Several of the officers lodged with the Neissers, which in feet caused her to leave. She generally met with one or more of these, but most frequently with Captain Vincent, who purposely sought her presence, and thus formed an acquaintance with her. 
                  To Elsie, the very fact of his being a soldier was sufficient to insure a kindly notice, and she received his attentions with so much warmth of manner that it encouraged him soon to avow his sentiments. The blushing girl in surprise and astonishment heard him-then, after a moment's hesitation, firmly rejected his offer; softening her refusal, however, by informing him of her prior attachment to her cousin Edward. She wept much as she told her tale of suffering affection, and her distress proved to him at once conclusively the hopelessness of his suit. 
                  The Captain was a noble-hearted man. With a generosity and kindness which did him credit, after thanking her for her candor, and the confidence she reposed in him, he gently sought to comfort her, by promising to use his best endeavors to ascertain the fate of her relatives. They parted with mutual feelings of respect and regard. She saw him but seldom afterwards, as he studiously avoided a meeting. 
                  The day succeeding this interview was a great festival celebration of the Society. This was an occasion when all classes and ages, married and single, young men and maidens, the children even to the babies-in short, the whole congregation assembled together in the church. 
                  Of course the whole band of the Sisterhood was there, and their first public appearance in that place for some weeks. Thither most of the strangers repaired. Our two lieutenants were among the number, and had a good opportunity of looking uninterruptedly upon their chosen maidens. For the little German cap, then universally worn by the whole Sisterhood, left the for face of the wearer so completely exposed, that not an expression of the features could be concealed. Observation but increased their admiration, and Lieutenant Morris was highly delighted on perceiving that Wilhelmina Leitner now and then cast a furtive glance towards him, blushing as she encountered his ardent gaze. 
                  Pauline Englehart sat there unconscious of the emotion her beauty excited; so, also, with Dorothea Stoltz, who, placed between two very homely-looking Sisters, appeared to greater advantage. 
                  But few of the maidens, except those I have described, were at all pretty, though several besides were singled out as objects of special attention. 
                  Many of the single Sisters dined and supped that day at their own homes, or with some friends. 
                  It was late in the afternoon. Wilhelmina Leitner had just separated from her parents to return to the Sisters' House, when, at a little distance before her, she perceived Lieutenants Morris and Lee. No sooner did the former observe her, and alone, than joy sparkled in his eye, and, leaving his companion, he hastily advanced towards the blushing girl. But a brief period passed after this ere he had declared his passion. 
                  Wilhelmina looked anxiously around as she listened to him, trembling with agitation and distress; for, deep in the recesses of her young heart, love lay shrouded and concealed, only waiting the bidding of some powerful impulse to rush forth. Her susceptible nature, in truth, was affected with more than common interest in behalf of her gallant and handsome admirer, and, pleased with his manners and appearance, she would have favored his pretensions, had she dared to do so. Lieutenant Morris watched her speaking countenance with anxiety, while he waited for her reply. 
                   
                  Various and conflicting were the emotions which oppressed the poor girl in the pause which ensued. Young, artless, and child-like, as she still was, she could scarcely realize the rigid discipline of the church in relation to such matters; yet she understood sufficient to be aware of her being in a dangerous position-one that might be productive of much sorrow and trouble both to herself and parents. This vividly presented itself to her mind. But, always haying been treated as a child, and the subject of love and marriage as yet quite new to her, the innocent and ignorant maiden found herself placed in circumstances singularly embarrassing and perplexing. 
                  Wilhelmina, trained by her parents to submit with willing obedience to all the rules and regulations of the Society, had hitherto found the yoke easy and the burden light; the reason was, no one interfered with the warm feelings of her heart-I mean mere earthly feelings-yet this could continue only as long as she felt and acted like a child; but now the case was different. She had passed into another period of existence, and its strongest feelings and impulses were alike under strict discipline and restraint-were forced by the tyranny of a custom to be checked-aye, and perfectly subdued. 
                  Wilhelmina now, in a moment, became aware of this; and although she did find her nature instinctively to rebel in this instance, and inclined to follow its own Promptings, yet this being a forbidden love, she must not indulge it, but instantly crush it. Thus she reasoned, and so she determined to act. Accordingly, assuming as much composure as she could command, she entreated Lieutenant Morris to cease speaking thus to her, for it would be sinful in her to love him. Then, bursting into tears, she rushed from his presence. 
                  As she did so, she suddenly encountered what she supposed to be one of the old Sisters of the community-the figure being dressed in the style and fashion worn at that period by the most primitive and ancient of their number. She had green glasses on, and her face was bound up with a handkerchief, while upon her head she wore the remarkable bonnet, generally only made use of by them when travelling. But she spoke not, though she seemed carefully to watch Wilhelmina as she turned rapidly towards her parents' residence. 
                  From this period, Lieutenant Morris was generally secretly advised when and where he could meet with her, besides receiving encouraging assurances from the same source, of his ultimate success. All these communications were in writing, and he had no suspicion from whence they came. 
                  The poor girl was now perfectly miserable. So young and inexperienced, she knew not what to do, or how to act. Fain would she have confided the whole affair to her dear mother's ear; wept her griefs upon her bosom; and sought in her maternal advice and sympathy for counsel and support; but an undefinable fear of involving her thereby in trouble, deterred the affectionate girl. 
                  Wilhelmina thought of Lizzie Brunner; of the severe judgment passed upon her. She was not fully possessed of all the particulars of her indiscretion, but she regarded her as a warning, as a serious example to others. 
                  Her unsuspecting parents accounted for the pale cheeks and distressed spirits of their child in the fancy she liked not her change of living, but pined for the shelter of her own home, and the affections which encircled her there. 
                
                
                  CHAPTER XIV. 
                  LIEUTENANT MORRIS was nothing daunted by the refusal and abrupt departure of Wilhelmina Leitner. On the contrary, her visible distress encouraged him. He now constantly beset her path when going to or coming from her parents. Yet his bearing was ever so respectful, kind, and gentlemanly-so courteous and agreeable, that Wilhelmina became more and more fascinated with him. Her situation was now perilous. She trembled like a guilty thing whenever she met her rover; and yet for the moment ment she was the happier; and though continuing to flee his presence, yet she would have grieved from her very heart had he not been at the trysting-place when she came to it. 
                  At this period, frequently about dusk, was seen a young female, dressed in the costume of the Sisterhood, accompanied by one or more of the soldiers, walking in different places on the outskirts of the village. They commonly remained together some time-the former ever and anon looking around her, as if fearful of detection. These meetings did not escape the observation of the Moravians, but immediately excited considerable attention and remark among them, conjecture being rife as to who the parties really were. All the young Sisters were interrogated upon the subject, but every one pleaded ignorance in the matter-still the Society feared the female belonged to this division of their people. 
                  The elderess of their Institution exercised more than her wonted vigilance over her charge. She held them under close restrictions, but they were not always under her immediate eye; sometimes they visited their parents, or other friends; when, if alone, the rules of the Society obliged them to return ere the day closed-a regulation now strenuously insisted upon; but if several were together, or had a friend with them, they could remain later. Most of the Sisters, however, returned early-all, except Wilhelmina Leitner, and several others similarly situated with herself, having friends in the place. Yet notwithstanding all these precautionary measures, the same female form, with her military attendant, still appeared as usual; and, rather singular, notwithstanding efforts to the contrary, continued to prevent discovery. Presently, some thought the figure and manner like to Wilhelmina Leitner, but they directly rejected the idea of its being her, because of the known character of her worthy parents, and her hitherto usually discreet conduct. 
                  Thus several weeks passed without settling this annoying question. During this interval the young girl met again that strangely attired woman, who at length accosted her by name. She spoke in broken English, with cracked voice; informed Wilhelmina she knew all-sharply reproved her; warning the poor frightened girl of the consequence, and threatening an exposure unless she made a friend of her. 
                  Wilhelmina instinctively shrunk from any communication with her, because she found something peculiarly disagreeable and repulsive to her in the manners of this female. Yet, tortured in 'her feelings, and sensitively anxious to prevent further mischief, she finally resolved to make a confidante of Elsie Ashley. She communicated to her, without any reserve whatever, all that had transpired between herself and her lover. Wilhelmina found in her the Mend she needed in such an emergency, one capable of being an excellent adviser. 
                  Elsie immediately, with intuitive knowledge, seemed to understand all her feelings without her expressing them. She manifested the liveliest interest in listening to the simple narration of this pure-minded and unsophisticated child of nature, while with artless simplicity she disclosed all her anxieties, hopes, and fears; also her tender sensibility when referring to the object of them, thereby unconsciously betraying herself, more or less influenced by the strong bias of interested feeling. 
                  As Elsie made this discovery she trembled at the possible results, marvelling greatly if that fair young creature, with a character as yet scarcely formed, just at the age when the passions are the strongest, in the very spring-time of womanhood, could willingly resign a desirable connection, to a young fancy promising so much happiness in the prospective. She wondered much if thus early in life her youthful mind had been so thoroughly disciplined to the peculiar principles of the Moravian system as to be able readily to succeed in checking the warm gush of genuine feeling, and sacrifice her natural inclinations upon the shrine of a religious faith and church usage. 
                  But respecting this peculiarity because of the people who practised it, made her exceedingly cautious how she spoke to her companion upon the subject. She freely entered into her feelings, pointed out wherein she had acted improperly in the matter, quieted her excitement, and then suggested various prudential measures to regulate her future conduct, in the hope of preventing a repetition of the Lieutenant's attentions. 
                  Elsie next spoke of the queer old Moravian Sister-told her not to make herself unhappy about her; but to endeavor to keep out of her way, advising Wilhelmina not to walk out alone, and proposed hereafter always to accompany her when visiting her parents. 
                  There is a charm in the unguarded confidence pertaining to the friendships of our youth. This Wilhelmina realized in her now very intimate intercourse with Elsie. She was her sole confidante-the only repository of this trial of her heart, and the temptations to which, in consequence, she became exposed. It established a secret bond of sympathy between them. And in Elsie's judicious counsels and kindly interest, the feelings of this simple-minded, innocent girl became tranquillized, and she was again comparatively happy, and thus we leave her for the present. 
                   
                  But how speeds the wooing of Lieutenant Lee, and the other gallants of our tale? It seemed as if the fates frowned alike upon them all, and their various successes I here narrate. All of their maidens were poor, being obliged to earn their own livelihood. I say all of them; yet Pauline Englehart, though in needy circumstances, could not do it-her health being really too delicate for much exertion. She sewed and knit a little; but the avails of her labor were so trifling that she had almost altogether to be provided for by others. In consequence, the Society gave her her board and lodging; while her own sisters, assisted by some friends, supplied her other wants. She possessed got much intelligence, and could not speak a word of English. The rest of these Moravian maidens were thorough Germans, a fact of which their admirers were totally ignorant. 
                  In vain had Lieutenant Lee sought an interview with Pauline Englehart; yet, not discouraged by the disappointment, he resolved to write to her, and thus introduce himself and proffer his suit. But he knew not how to proceed to effect his object. IIe was a well-meaning man-sincere, I believe, in his intentions, but very ideal and speculative in his notions of persons and things; could be easily persuaded, and, withal, entertained a high opinion of his own judgment. 
                  During all this time Lizzie Brunner was not idle. She soon formed quite an extensive acquaintance among these strangers, with whom she became more popular than she ever could have been with the settled inhabitants of the place. Her lively disposition and fondness for fun, pleased and amused. In fact she became quite a favorite, particularly among the soldiers. The house where she lodged had as many of the military stowed into it as could possibly be accommodated. Lieutenant Lee happened to be among the number, while the two soldiers were billeted upon the next-door neighbor. 
                  Lizzie, vexed and mortified, but not discouraged, at the failure of her last undertaking, was constantly upon the look-out for another; when she discovered the fancy of the soldiers, she was perfectly delighted-being exactly the thing to suit her in her present mood, it could not fail to please her. 
                  With such good materials to act upon, together with an excellent opportunity for precisely the kind of excitement her nature then craved, no wonder she encouraged them in their romantic folly. Yea, she went farther than this; for, in addition, she promised, in the prosecution of their designs, to aid them all in her power. 
                  But neither of the trio admirers knew, as yet, even the names of their fair ones; nor could she inform them until Sister, Winny told her. Then, much to her surprise, she learnt they were Pauline Englehart, Dorothea Stoltz, and Veronie Miller. It added to the interest of the affair, since she knew the mental deficiencies of the former. Lizzie, I say, was perfectly aware of this circumstance-besides, that all these Sisters were not only entirely ignorant of the English language, but were thorough Moravians-genuine, faithful followers of Anna Nitschman, and her seventeen associate maidens, whose singular vow concerning their marriages had excited her ridicule and contempt. 
                   
                  These facts increased her desire to make the most of these love affairs, and, anticipating considerable sport in consequence, she determined to render the despairing admirers as much assistance as she possibly could. 
                  Lizzie Brunner now had plenty to do. Her fertile brains suggested various plans and means to accomplish their object, sometimes advising the Lieutenant very differently from the others, and never acquainting either party of the interest she was taking in his companions, and enjoining perfect secrecy upon all. Thus they remained entirely ignorant of the part she took in relation to each with regard to all these matters. 
                  But the strict seclusion in which the Sisterhood was kept almost precluded the possibility of even seeing them. How, then, could these admirers have any personal intercourse with their fancied favorites? Lieutenant Lee then suggested to Lizzie, writing to Pauline. 
                  "That is an excellent idea," she replied. "The Moravians, you know, always address each other in Scripture style of expression." 
                  "I was not aware of that. I have heard they are guided by the Bible in deciding their marriages; but how, Exactly, I have not been informed." 
                  Lizzie hereupon gave him an account of their way of marrying; as may be expected, it considerably varied from the truth. In fact she gave a complete burlesqued description of the whole affair. 
                  The Lieutenant laughed heartily. 
                  "But are you sure they really only make use of Scripture language?" 
                  "Certainly!-besides, I know they are particularly partial to the writings of the Apostle John; and they inculcate, his sentiments upon the subject of love upon the minds of their young folks. Now, you might gain their favor at once, and further your own object at the same time, if you use his language in penning a love missive to your beautiful Moravian nun." 
                  The idea took the fancy of the officer. Hence a very curious epistle indeed did lie indite to Pauline. He quoted a number of passages from this apostle; then closed his letter thus: 
                  "And now I beseech thee, lady, not as though I wrote a new commandment unto you, but as a message, that we love one another. Yet, I have many things besides to say unto you, which I would not write with paper and ink, but I trust to come unto you shortly, and speak face to face, that our joy may be full." 
                  This communication he sealed, then directed; but how to get it to her? was the question. Lizzie declined taking it, or indeed having anything to do with the sending of it, fearful of becoming implicated in the matter, and getting herself into trouble in consequence. 
                  The Lieutenant could find no other person who he believed would not betray him-nor any one, even on a bribe, willing to deliver it. Lizzie, thereupon, suggested the mail; and, accordingly, he put it into the post-office of the village, to insure this precious billet-doux arriving at its desired destination. 
                  At this period it was an established rule in the Sisters' House, that every letter addressed to any of the young Sisters, unless coming privately, was brought to the elderess, and subjected to her supervision previous to its being placed into their hands. 
                  Now, it so happened, that Pauline Englehart had no correspondents whatever-therefore, when this letter came, it excited the more curiosity and surprise. 
                  The stately elderess, as she looked at the bold, manly hand of the superscription, exclaimed: 
                  "What can this mean!" 
                  Then, breaking the seal, she read the contents. She was truly shocked at the daring of this officer, who, thus, with pious speech, sought to lead off one of the lambs of her flock. After consulting another of the elderesses and the elders, she summoned the fair girl before her, when, with the obnoxious letter in hand, she announced the fact of its being addressed to her, and told briefly what it contained. Then this conscientious official anxiously inquired what she knew of the writer, exhorting her; as a faithful daughter of the church, not to give heed to it, but to regard the affair as suggested by the devil to tempt her to do wrong. 
                  Pauline, surprised and bewildered, scarcely knew what she said in reply-but enough was elicited to satisfy her spiritual instructress that she had no cause for apprehension on her account, she not even having the slightest knowledge of the gentleman. Indeed, her terror of her lover's profession alone, while it was perfectly ludicrous, was sufficient to warrant her indifference to him. So no further notice was taken of the matter, and the Lieutenant's love-letter was consigned to oblivion. 
                  The soldiers had no better success than Lieutenant Lee. With some, however, the fancy was so slight, that they soon became perfectly indifferent. But such did not seem to be the case with the two I have spoken of-or, perhaps, they continued to indulge it merely for the sake of mischief, or their fondness for adventure. But, be it as it may, the casual and unlooked-for appearance of Dorothea Stoltz, with several of the others of the Sisterhood, excited them to immediate action. Her admirer, Mr. Gray, directly went up to her, began to talk, and, seeing her not disposed to listen to him, but to move off, caught hold of her to detain her. Not understanding a word he said, and his manner of Behavior being new and strange to her, she became exceedingly frightened, and, quickly releasing herself from his grasp, she precipitately fled, her companions doing the same. 
                  It now became real sport to Mr. Gray and his associates. They pursued them to the Sisters' House, where the poor girls, almost terrified to death, had already entered. Full of the excitement of the affair, they demanded admittance-which being denied, they threatened to pull the building down. 
                  It so happened, unfortunately, all the elders, and other influential male representatives of the Society in the place, were absent at this time, attending to some church business in a neighboring Settlement-a fact the soldiers knew of, being informed of the circumstance by Lizzie Brunner, and they took advantage of it. They continued their threats until the poor agitated Sisterhood, in their alarm, opened their doors, and admitted them; yet not until they had secured Dorothea Stoltz, Pauline Engelhart, Wilhelmina Leitner, and the other likely-looking young Sisters. 
                  The soldiers were exceedingly disappointed when, instead of meeting with the objects of their search, they saw none but a number of either wrinkled old maids or ugly young ones. Their adventure now speedily came to a close-for immediately measures were taken which stopped them; yet, notwithstanding, the poor single Sisterhood were afraid to venture from their domiciles until these disturbers of their peace had left that part of the country, which happily occurred but a little while after. 
                  Our Sisters, meanwhile, were frequently anxiously questioned and lectured about these sons of Belial, and warned of the dangerous consequences which might ensue from any intercourse with them. At length, they were ordered away, and the good people promised themselves restoration to quiet and good Border. The Sisters, however, were still kept together in the Sisters' House, as scattering troops, ever and anon, continued to pass through the Settlement. 
                  But I am anticipating. Ere the last circumstances recorded took place, another transpired, connected with my story, which I here give. It refers to one of the regulations of which I have already spoken, but only partially. 
                  I have stated, that during the period of the Revolution, while the American army stayed at this Settlement, the Sisterhood were not permitted to be out after night unattended. 
                  But the Moravians had strict rules upon the subject previous to this time. They were great advocates for early hours. They expected all their people to retire, at least to their homes, by nine o'clock p. M.; and it was an unusual circumstance for them to be either visiting or walking out after that hour. With their young people they were very particular in this respect, more especially with the young Sisterhood. None of these were permitted to walk alone after night-fall, unless some urgent, unavoidable necessity existed. Then two of them, at least, were generally together. Hence, clandestine interviews with any of the other sex was an almost impossible occurrence. 
                   
                  Yet, notwithstanding this, the solitary female continued to saunter abroad at the early evening hour, with her military escort, still preserving her incognito. The mysterious couple had repeatedly been followed, in order to ascertain who the female really was, but with no success whatever; she always managed to get out of the way, and elude discovery. 
                  It so happened, when curiosity was most intense upon the subject, Annie Dohlman startled the elderess and her Sisters, with the information of this person being certainly no other than Wilhelmina Leitner. At first, no one credited her assertion, but she insisted upon her statement being true-that she, herself, had just seen her in company with one of the officers, a very handsome man, who was talking very earnestly to her-she, meanwhile, crying bitterly. 
                  It was then recollected that she had left the Sisters' House, a few minutes before, to visit her parents. This fact, connected with the circumstance of her appearance resembling that of the unknown female, seemed to confirm Annie Dohlman's narration. 
                  In truth, this meddling busybody had surprised the lovers together-and Wilhelmina saw her when about retreating from them; the poor girl, in consequence, became so much frightened that she hastily left the Lieutenant, and hurried to her mother, whom she found quite sick and in bed. 
                  About half an hour subsequent to this, the elderess was seated in the snug, comfortable parlor of the Leitners, talking with the father of Wilhelmina. She had come to investigate the truth of this sad affair. Yet, ere she did so, some desultory conversation took place. 
                  Mr. Leitner soon mentioned the illness of his wife, which, though not of a serious nature, was sufficient to make him somewhat anxious about her. He then expressed a desire of the mother to have her daughter with her until she became better; and remarked that both parents thought Wilhelmina herself would be benefited by the change, as she did not appear well, and unusually grave and sad. 
                  The good elderess, of course, could not refuse this request, but hesitated in her reply. At length, she asked the worthy Brother, if it might not be imprudent to let her leave the strict surveillance she was under at the Sisters' House, as long as any part of the army remained in the vicinity. 
                  "Why! what do you mean, my dear Sister?" inquired Brother Leitner. 
                  "I mean," answered the elderess, "that as Wilhelmina is rather attractive in appearance, so young and inexperienced, and girls of her age are apt to act foolishly, and be guilty of improprieties of behavior, I think it would be far better to let her remain where she is at present. In fact, my dear brother, I very much fear that the poor child is even now already being tempted to go astray by one of these dangerous fighting characters." 
                  Mr. Leitner was very much surprised and agitated, but recollecting his poor sick wife being in the adjoining room, and fearful of her hearing the conversation, he beckoned the elderess into another apartment. 
                  "Pray, my dear sister," said he, as soon as they were seated, "do explain yourself; tell me what my Wilhelmina has done, to cause you to speak of her in this way." 
                  The elderess then told him the reason of her visit, and how it; grieved her to entertain such a suspicion of his child. 
                  The father was very much shocked, but he could not believe for a moment that his daughter would behave so indecorously, yet he immediately left the elderess to bring the poor girl into her presence. Wilhelmina trembled excessively, for in truth she was very much agitated. Her father informed her of the errand of the elderess, together with all the impressions entertained of her, in consequence of the story Annie Dohlman had circulated. 
                  "And is this true or not, my daughter?" inquired the anxious father. 
                  Wilhelmina's only reply were tears. The elderess then interrogated her; still she did not answer-for what should she say? what had she to tell that would not distress her father? 
                  "Surely, my child," continued he, "you have not been so thoughtless, so imprudent, as to do such an improper thing-night after night to wander abroad alone, expressly to be in the company of a strange man!" 
                  "No!-no!-believe me; I have not done so! nor ever would," sobbed the daughter. 
                  Her father was immediately persuaded of the innocence of his child, but not so the elderess. 
                  "Then was it not really you whom Annie Dohlman met with one of the officers?" she asked. 
                  This could not but embarrass Wilhelmina; but before she could reply to it, Mr. Leitner exclaimed in a tone of triumph- 
                  "Seeing is believing, it is said. Look! there, if I mistake not, goes the young woman and her soldier!" 
                  And sure enough, just beyond the village, walked together this mysterious pair. 
                  "Now, Sister Hornel," he continued, much excited, "the evidence is before you that this young girl is not my daughter, she being here; and I hope you are not only convinced of my child's entire innocence, but will have the kindness of removing this unpleasant impression concerning her from the minds of others-and I never thought otherwise," he added, "though my poor heart was terribly shaken, by the mere idea of such a, thing." 
                  "That I certainly shall do, and with the greatest pleasure," she replied, affectionately kissing Wilhelmina; "but do you not think this young woman bears a resemblance to your daughter?" 
                  "She does, indeed, unfortunately for my poor child; and I wonder who she is. But I pray you, my dear sister, to remember that it is not she-and do not forget to give publicity to that fact." 
                  This the elderess again very gladly promised to do. Thus this unpleasant affair ended, much to the relief of all parties. But it made Wilhelmina more anxious than ever before to continue to conceal her meetings with the Lieutenant, and terminate them as quickly as possible. 
                
                
                   
                  CHAPTER XV. 
                  I HAVE stated that Elsie Ashley had become the guardian of Wilhelmina Leitner in her visits to her parents. But this arrangement between the friends more particularly referred to the evening, Elsie frequently accompanied her there to take tea with the family. Then it was her wont to return with her to the Sisters' House. At other times she would go to the house after tea-stay a little while with Mr. and Mrs. Leitner; afterwards she and Wilhelmina would walk back together to the Establishment. 
                  But once it so happened that Elsie was unexpectedly detained until much later than usual; in consequence, Wilhelmina left her father's house early. 
                  She had proceeded but a few paces on her return to the Sisters' House, when suddenly the ancient and primitive-looking Moravian woman presented herself before her. 
                  "Where are you going, my sister?" squeaked the old creature in broken English. "I ax you the question, though I know all about it-and that the devil is tempting you in this bloody man, who lives by killing his brethren of the same flesh." 
                  Wilhelmina shuddered. 
                  "It is not so! believe it not I" she replied, bursting into tears as she spoke-looking around anxiously, while she trembled violently. 
                  "Yes, I know it all-that the son of abomination loves you, and you love him in return. It must be told, and you, child, disgraced." 
                  "Do not say so, I beg of you," sobbed the frightened girl; "indeed, you are mistaken." 
                  The woman seemed to enjoy her distress, which only aggravated that of Wilhelmina. 
                  "The Conference will make a public example of you, I am thinking, because you are Brother Leitner's daughter." 
                   
                  The poor girl now wept as if her heart would break; then renewed her entreaties to the woman not to talk so. 
                  "You are fearful of exposure, that's it." 
                  "Indeed," said Wilhelmina, "believe me, and do not judge me so harshly." And then the poor thing wept more than ever. 
                  At this juncture Elsie very opportunely made her appearance. 
                  "Pray what is the matter?" she earnestly inquired. Wilhelmina clung to her in terror, while she pointed to the woman. 
                  "Who is she?" Elsie asked. 
                  Wilhelmina did not know; but she related to her friend the substance of the conversation between them. A sudden thought occurred to Elsie. She went up close to the woman-narrowly observed her for a moment, then, much excited, exclaimed: 
                  "I am sure I am right! I know who you are-and is it possible, Lizzie Brunner, that under this guise, in poor Sister Winny's cast-off garments, you can play with the feelings of the child of your best friend?" 
                  Then pulling off her handkerchief and spectacles-sure enough, it was the wilful, mischievous girl. 
                  "Tell me, candidly, why have you done this?" asked Elsie. 
                  "Solely for fun, or a kind of revenge, because all our intimacy has been entirely broken up by the family, and I thought I would worry them a little for it. But this is not all the tricks I have played them." 
                  "What tricks?" 
                  "Never mind," she replied; "all will be found out in due time"-saying this, she laughed heartily at the fright she had given Wilhelmina; she seemed to enjoy the joke, as she called it, very much. 
                  But this proved to be about the last of her exploits in the Settlement; for the very next day after, Mr. Leitner dispatched a letter to Philadelphia, which soon brought one of her brothers to the place. This was followed by the almost immediate departure of the mother and daughter, much to the joy and satisfaction of all the community. 
                  With her disappeared the strange young woman in the attire of the Sisterhood-neither she nor her lover ever being seen again in the place. But when, a few months after, they heard of the elopement of Lizzie Brunner with Mr. Gray, the former admirer of Dorothea Stoltz, they learned, at the same time, of these two being the mysterious pair, and that, from pure mischief, and a spirit of retaliation, Lizzie had procured a dress of the same pattern as Wilhelmina's-then imitated her in other respects-to represent her as nearly as possible, so as to be mistaken for her; and we have seen how she succeeded, and into what trouble she might have brought the poor girl. 
                  The next event we shall notice is the birthday of Wilhelmina Leitner, which always received considerable attention from her fond parents. She was now eighteen years of age. The majority of the younger part of the Sisterhood were invited by Mr. and Mrs. Leitner to an entertainment of good things. 
                  It was the Vesper-feast-the favorite inviting meal among the Germans. The good Bishop with his wife-the Sisters' elderess-the clergyman of the congregation and his wife, with several other friends, were present. But neither Rosalie Steinberg nor Elsie was there-the former visiting a sick friend, and the latter prevented from going by a severe headache. 
                  This meal took place about two hours after dinner. It consisted of hot and cold meats, cake, fruit, sweetmeats, coffee, and sometimes wine. On festive occasions, a kind of sugar-cake, the birthday cake, graced the board. 
                  The table of the Leitners was loaded to profusion till near evening, when the company separated. 
                  The Sisters, accompanied by their elderess, had almost reached their quarters, when Wilhelmina discovered having forgotten to bring some little articles with her she very much needed. She walked with Pauline Englehart, and taking her with her, they retraced their way homeward for them. The distance was short, but most of it through a by-path, not much frequented and lonely. They had proceeded but a few steps when, suddenly, Lieutenants Morris and Lee appeared before them. 
                  As the regiment to which they belonged had for some days left the place, their appearance was both unexpected and startling to the young girls. No sooner did the officers recognize the maidens than they quickened their pace, and ere the affrighted Wilhelmina became aware of it, the former had drawn her gently aside, and again pleaded his passion with the most persuasive and eloquent language. Then, taking a ring out of his pocket, he entreated her to accept it as a pledge of his sincerity. The poor girl, agitated to excess, was perfectly confounded by surprise, and for a moment the tumult of her feelings overcame her. She mechanically allowed him to slip it upon her finger, nor did she utter a word in reply to his impassioned inquiries, but- 
                  "My dear parents!-Oh no, it cannot be!" while the big tears coursed their way down her beautiful checks. 
                  "But if I see them, and obtain their consent, will you not then be mine?" 
                  For a moment she hesitated-then, looking at him through her tears, she replied- 
                  "They cannot give it, if they would-it is of no use-you must not." 
                  Here a sudden stop was put to this colloquy, and the parties were separated. The cause was this-Lieutenant Lee, not knowing the fate of his letter, and believing that Pauline Englehart had never received it, gladly embraced this opportunity of explaining himself to her. 
                  I have said that this poor simple girl did not understand English-therefore, although she could not but guess the subject of his discourse, his vehement manner so alarmed her, that her imagination immediately conjured up the most dreadful apprehensions of personal danger, and presently she rent the air with her screams. Her cries reached the ears of the Leitners and others, who hastened to the spot. 
                  Our lieutenants, hearing approaching footsteps, quickly retreated, much annoyed at this interruption of their adventure. 
                  They had scarcely made good their exit, when the poor girls found themselves surrounded by their friends, Who were axiously inquiring what was the matter. Both were too much perturbed turbed to give any immediate satisfactory answer; and Wilhelmina, throwing herself into her mother's arms, begged to be taken home with her. The request was granted, while some of the sympathizing community escorted the trembling Pauline to her lodgings in the Sisters' House. 
                  Arrived safely within her own family dwelling, and closely nestled into, her mother's arms, Wilhelmina not only told her the cause of her agitation, but, ere she left her for the night, confided to that anxiously listening parent the secret of her hapless acquaintance with Lieutenant Moms; with glowing cheek she described him, and then went on to tell the history of his love and her own heart's sufferings; after which, covering her face with her hands, she wept bitterly. 
                  Mrs. Leitner, herself experiencing the happiness of reciprocated affection in her own felicitous marriage, immediately understood the cause of this emotion, and realized the painful situation of her child. Her fond heart trembled for her; but, believing rest now indispensably requisite, she gently soothed her sorrows by endearments, and then retired to seek her husband. 
                  The affectionate pair slept not much that night; but ever and anon the fervent prayer was sent unitedly from their loving hearts to Heaven for Divine direction to themselves, and strength to their darling child, to enable them all to act properly in this sad affair. 
                  Mr. Leitner resolved to seek Lieutenant Morris on the morrow, to have an explanation with him; but ere he put his intention into execution, that gentleman anticipated him. 
                  He came, with testimonials of his character and the respectability of his family, to ask those parents for permission to address their daughter, avowing the wish of obtaining this desire of his heart as being the sole object of his present visit to the Settlement. 
                  Mr. and Mrs. Leitner were much pleased with the whole bearing of this gentleman. He appeared so amiable in his manners, polished and well-bred, and regarded Wilhelmina with such respectful admiration, they did not wonder their daughter found him irresistibly attractive. But, being Moravians, they could not give him any encouragement whatever. They frankly told him so. Lieutenant Morris, however, did not understand how this circumstance could interfere with the forming of this connection. He next asked permission to see Wilhelmina; which request her parents could not comply with, for, in addition to the consideration of the object of such an interview, Wilhelmina had passed an uneasy, restless night, and was then quite sick with feverish excitement. The fine countenance of the Lieutenant clouded with disappointment in not seeing her, while it manifested sorrowful concern on hearing of her illness. 
                  At this juncture Elsie Ashley very opportunely came in. Mr. and Mrs. Leitner, after briefly mentioning all the circumstances of the case, requested her to assist them in convincing Lieutenant Morris of the impossibility of their giving their consent to his wedding their daughter. 
                  "Her parents acknowledge," said he to Elsie, "that she reciprocates my affection, and that I am so happy as to have impressed them favorably-then why, in the name of nature and of love, do they wish to withhold their consent to our union-to force from the heart its instinctive yearnings, its natural desires?" 
                  Elsie, in reply, explained the rule regulating the marriages among the Moravians, to all of which the whole Society, without exception, were bound to submit-thus rendering it impossible for Wilhelmiua to marry him. Yet he could not comprehend the propriety of this unnatural course of procedure. 
                  "But surely it is a barbarous custom, thus forcibly to prevent the union of two fond beings, evidently calculated to make each other happy. Why, it is using the human will as a piece" of machinery, which can be made to fit other material perhaps perfectly dissimilar and unsuitable!" 
                  "I belong not to the Society," answered Elsie, "and I fully agree with your sentiments, although the people seem perfectly satisfied. Their system has, as yet, been attended with the happy result, that none of the parties thus mated have ever been known to wish either to be divorced or separated." 
                   
                  "Yet I cannot but regard it as a species of religious fanaticism, and the sooner it is changed the better. Think you this a possible circumstance, Miss Ashley, and that I may still have a chance of winning my fair Moravian flower?" 
                  Elsie smiled. 
                  "I cannot but believe that this usage will be discontinued among the Moravians, but it is not probable there will be any alteration in our day; their people generally being much attached to it." 
                  "Tyrannical custom, this!" exclaimed he-"it is very cruel not to permit me even to see her again." 
                  "Nevertheless, it must be so. Her parents anticipate trouble in consequence; and let me persuade you, therefore, by the love you bear her, not to inflict this trial upon her, but to withdraw yourself from here as speedily as possible, and thus restore tranquillity to her and peace to this worthy family. Pardon me, Lieutenant Morris, for speaking thus; the necessity of the case is my only apology." 
                  Yet he loitered a space longer; then, finding he could not overcome the scruples of Mr. and Mrs. Leitner, he bade them and Elsie farewell, and departed without seeing the fair girl whose future he had hoped to identify with his own. They never met again. 
                  Yet for a space did the recollection of this trial of her heart haunt the memory of Wilhelmina Leitner, though told to banish the remembrance from her mind, and no one was permitted to refer to it in her hearing. She left the place soon after, accompanied by her parents, on a visit to another Moravian Settlement in Pennsylvania, where she remained several weeks. 
                  The fancy of Lieutenant Lee for the beautiful Pauline died a natural death when he discovered her weakness of intellect, and her other deficiencies; and he left the place, sadly mortified by the whole affair. 
                  Thus unpropitiously terminated the love adventures of these military gallants of the Revolutionary war, with the fair Sisterhood of that secluded little Moravian Settlement. 
                
                
                   
                  CHAPTER XVI. 
                  A FEW weeks subsequent to these occurrences, Elsie received a letter from Captain Vincent, informing her of the fact of himself and some of his men coming up to a party of savages, from whom they learned that others of their tribe had with them several Schwannacks (white people, or Europeans), whom they meant to hold as captives until the close of the war. He had in vain endeavored to ascertain their names, but promised to continue his efforts and inform Elsie of the result. In the mean time he sent her this intelligence. 
                  This letter, although it contained no certain information of her uncle and cousins, cheered Elsie, because she directly persuaded herself of their being these captives; and, with the sanguine feelings of youthful affection, fondly hoped and believed, not only in their escape from the Indians, but safe return to their family-in fine, that her beloved Edward would yet be restored to her. 
                  To this period Elsie had continued to keep the secret of her heart's greatest sorrow concealed within the sanctuary of her own bosom. But now she resolved to tell Rosalie Steinberg, then just returned to her home, death having released her from the kindly offices of ministering friendship. As she listened to the history of her love-heard her simple tale of disappointed hopes:-and marked the expression of sadness upon her lovely countenance while she spoke of this trial of her heart, her affectionate nature prompted her to offer every consolation in her power. Rosalie, from her own experience in some measure, could participate in her grief and sympathize in her trouble; yet, with her peculiar training, it was manifest that she considered it wrong, if not sinful, to indulge in such devotion of feeling to any earthly object. 
                  "You surely do not mean to say it is wicked in me to love my cousin?" inquired Elsie. 
                  "Not the love, but the kind," answered her friend; "poor, erring humanity, in its natural cravings, yearns for an affection from its fellow, sometimes almost idolatrous. It thus seeks to build its own happiness upon beings like itself, while it is prone to render cold service to the Lord our Saviour and Redeemer. And if we, poor sinners, become the slaves of our feelings toward each other, no marvel if the act itself brings its own punishment with it. Hence the thousand anxieties and nameless fears to which such persons are subject." 
                  "I know that it is the great duty and chief business of a Christian to labor to make all the affections, with all their motives, tendencies, and operations, subservient to the word and will of God; but yet"-- 
                  "Oh, my dear Elsie!" said Rosalie, interrupting her friend, "there must be no qualifications whatever; we should give ourselves unreservedly to Him, and our love to our Lard ought to be the spring of every action; His will should not only be ours, but submitted to with willing acquiescence; hence, in my opinion, we ought not to place any of our affections at our own disposal." 
                  "If you reason right, then, why the congeniality existing between some individuals, by which they are mutually attracted to each other? Surely, Rosalie, this is implanted in our natures in order to guide us in forming our attachments?" 
                  "It is given to us, doubtless, for wise purposes; but I think you will find it more the case with regard to the forming of friendships, than in settling a marriage. 'Tis true, my observations have been very limited; but I am strongly of the opinion that much of this talked-of sympathy of tastes, reciprocity of feeling, with other kindred sentiments, said to bias and dispose the mind in this connection, is more fancied than real." 
                  "Love is blind, you know, and this is the reason why there is so much ideality about it." 
                  "Then we should not blindly follow its impulses," quickly retorted Rosalie. 
                  Elsie laughed. Her friend joined her. 
                  "Ah, Rosalie! surely no woman of strong sensibilities could subscribe to such cold philosophy, unless their affections had been purified from all earthly dross in passing through the crucible of some severe, heavy discipline." 
                  "Then what think you of our Wilhelmina?" 
                  "She doubtless is suffering," said Elsie; "her mind has been cruelly tortured lately; yet, I confess, she is a perfect enigma to me." 
                  "Why?" 
                  "Because she certainly seemed very much interested in Lieutenant Morris, and if so, bow she was able to resist his love, when her own feelings were so powerfully pleading in his favor, and trample upon her own heart, is a mystery to me." 
                  "It is the effect entirely of our religious training, which inculcates the necessity of this heroic self-denial and sacrifice of all our selfish considerations." 
                  "But what a blight there is upon her young spirits!" 
                  "However, it is only temporary; and mark me, dear Elsie, she will successfully overcome this weakness, and her affectionate nature by and by will probably gladden the home of one of our worthy Brethren; and her married life may, perhaps, be as pleasant, if not happier, than if she had become the bride of wealth, and moved in the ranks of folly and fashion." 
                  Elsie looked doubtingly; she then asked: 
                  "Surely all your Society are not alike obedient in following this regulation? Do you not, Rosalie, find occasionally a refractory Brother or Sister, who, notwithstanding all your strict rules, form some intimacy, and weave around their hearts the mystic chain forged by love, and cemented by affection, and so strongly too, that they could not rest satisfied in any other connection?" 
                  "Cases like this do occur, though very rarely; but such individuals thereby lose their church privileges; they no longer belong to us." 
                  "Not irretrievably, do they?" 
                  "Why no-but-" 
                  "But they must say they are very sorry, and promise not to do so again, I suppose you were going to tell me," Elsie laughingly replied. 
                  Rosalie was much amused with the turn the conversation had taken, and shook her head in reply. 
                  "I should think," continued Elsie, "that although your Society are so watchful and wary with your young people, there would be, nevertheless, occasionally a run-away match among you." 
                  "Such instances do sometimes occur; but they have been few and far between. Only about a year and a half ago, two couples, brothers and sisters of two families here, made up their minds to intermarry. They were so determined in their choice, they would not risk a decision "by lot," but evaded complying with this obligation of our Church by marrying; they went to a neighboring village, where they were married. Neither of these parties informed any of their friends of their intention, and they arranged the whole affair in such a way that not a suspicion was entertained of their project until after they had left the Settlement. It was altogether a scandalous affair, but they have had their deserts already, for they did not prosper, and are now, I am told, miserably poor. But, my dear Elsie," she continued, "you will soon have a good opportunity of forming a better judgment of our regulations in these matters; of knowing how we conduct our marriages, as several of our Brethren are about being married here." 
                  "I really am delighted to learn this," was the rejoinder of Elsie, "for I confess I have considerable curiosity upon the subject. But do tell me, Rosalie, will the whole of the Sisterhood have to be exhibited one by one before these Brothers, to give them the opportunity of making a selection? and do they cast lots for one, and then another, until they get a wife? and do they have a hat containing the names of all the Sisterhood, which they first shake up before they pick out one? or do the poor things all stand together in a row for the Brothers to choose their mates?" 
                  "Neither way," replied Rosalie, laughing so heartily that she could scarcely speak. 
                   
                  "Or is it customary, as Lizzie Brunner told me, to have an equal number of both Brothers and Sisters stand up at a time, to be married all with one ceremony, and their respective partners afterwards chosen 'by lot?'" 
                  "What an absurd idea! Indeed, my dear Elsie, this is the most extraordinary fancy upon the subject I have ever heard! But it is purely an invention of Lizzie Brunner's, I imagine. No! I assure you nothing of the kind is ever done in settling our marriages; and with every couple the whole ceremonial is repeated, except in the concluding prayer and blessing." 
                  "I did not believe Lizzie at the time; the thought, however, struck me just now to ask you, but I hope I am not offending you by my strange questions?" 
                  "Not at all! though really you have very odd ideas about it," said Rosalie, smiling; "and perhaps I have not heard them all yet. Come, Elsie, give me the rest; I am prepared to listen to any question you wish to ask, relative to this matter." 
                  "I thank you, dear Rosalie. I suppose that a list of all the marrying Sisterhood is written out, and when either of you refuses a Brother, your name is put down at the end of it, and you will not have a chance again until all the others have been tried?" 
                  "Again you are mistaken," replied her friend, who was so much amused with all her strange interrogatories, she could scarcely answer her. "But, I think, I have never explained to you our arrangement in settling these affairs." 
                  "No, you have not; and I shall be very glad to hear all about it." 
                  "To begin, then," said Rosalie. "Their method of procedure is, as I understand it, as follows: When any of our Brethren desire to be married, he expresses his wish to his elders, or directly to the Conference, either personally or in writing, who thereupon discuss the propriety of the step-examine into his circumstances; and if not well known in the Society, particular inquiries are made relative to his character, peculiarities of disposition, habits of life, together with other needful etcteras. "When every item of information has been gathered, if it then appear he is prospectively unable to support a family, unless there should exist a cogent reason for deciding otherwise, they do not consider him eligible for matrimony; but if they are satisfied upon this point of importance, and no other serious objection presents itself, he becomes a candidate for this change of condition. 
                  "He is then asked," continued Rosalie, "if there is any Sister for whom he entertains a particular preference. Should such be the case, he mentions it. Then when his marriage is brought before the Conference, a special prayer is made in reference to this subject, and the name of this Sister being given, the Lord is solemnly inquired of, if it is His will that they propose for this Brother such a Sister, mentioning her name-thus leaving it optional with both parties, in the event of an affirmative reply, to consent, or refuse the proposition." 
                  "Then, if I understand right, this is but a preliminary step in the proceedings?" 
                  "Just so," replied Rosalie. 
                  "What next is done?" 
                  "If the answer is favorable to the proposition, this Sister thereupon is taken in the 'lot' for him." 
                  "But," interrupted Elsie, "suppose the lot decides in favor of the match, and the Sister chosen has really no personal acquaintance with this Brother, how will she know if she can ever like him well enough for a husband?" 
                  "She is guided by her impressions in rendering her reply, and she is expected, before doing this, to make it the subject of prayerful consideration. But let me go on with my description of this important ceremonial. After the Sister has been chosen, two papers previously prepared, and tightly rolled up, are placed together in a box. One of these has yes, the other no, written on the inside. The box is handed to a member of the company, who takes out one of these papers, which he passes to his next neighbor, who opens it and reads its contents. If it is the paper containing no, it is expected to stay all further proceedings ings with regard to this Sister, as such a decision is considered binding." 
                  "Then, if I understand right," said Elsie, "this couple, after such a decision, could never marry each other, even if the Sister happened to have a fancy for this Brother." 
                  "Not so, but usually her name is immediately withdrawn and another is proposed in her place. Then, after mature deliberation, whether these parties would be suitable for each other, the same course as before is always adopted, and so on until the reply is in the affirmative." 
                  "But should the parties feel a repugnance to marry any other person, surely they would not be compelled to?" 
                  "Certainly not! and sometimes the Brother prefers a life of celibacy, rather than submit to have any other companion." 
                  "But, Rosalie, cannot the Brother propose again for the same Sister?" 
                  "This has recently been done; but formerly I believe no such case occurred; and, strange to say, it sometimes happened, upon the second or third trial, the lot proved propitious to their wishes, and this Brother and Sister have at length been united." 
                  "Well, I am glad of that; and surely there is some love in such a match?" 
                  "I suppose so, but I am not in favor of such marriages. It seems too much like flying in the face of Providence, to set our wills so directly against the choice of Heaven. But let me go on, dear Elsie-where was I when you interrupted me?" 
                  "Just where your poor Brother, at length, had a wife selected for him." 
                  "True, but he is not yet sure of her. The result is then made known to him, and if he approves of it, the proposition is submitted to the lady. Should, however, the Brother not feel satisfied in his mind that he could be happy with this Sister, or have any other objection to the match, he is not obliged to marry her, but it is again brought before the Conference and another Sister is tried," 
                  "I hope the Sisters have the same privilege to reject an offer as the Brethren," said Elsie. 
                   
                  "Certainly! and if either of them do not regard her chosen husband with favor, she has the same right as the Brethren have to decline the proposal. Each has the same privilege to take or refuse one another, and without the risk of giving any offence whatever." 
                  "How very peculiar and interesting all this is I But do tell me, Rosalie, how many times are you allowed permission to refuse such an offer?" 
                  "As often as we please." 
                  "But are you not proposed only a certain number of times?" 
                  "Why, no!" 
                  "I thought this was one of your rules." 
                  "Why this supposition, Elsie?" 
                  "I cannot exactly say-but perhaps I got the impression from the great number of single women among you." 
                  "That arises from various circumstances," replied her friend, "all of which I cannot now explain; but you know I mentioned, that in the case of some the fault was entirely their own; a life of celibacy having such charms for them, they would not exchange it for the trials and perils of matrimony. But, Elsie, I am determined not to enlighten you any more at present upon this interesting subject. And perhaps, when you have yourself seen the whole of this arrangement of ours, you may think more favorably of it. Indeed, my dear friend, I am particularly anxious concerning this, because I believe this usage of ours to be a great obstacle to your becoming one of us." 
                  "You judge right, dear Rosalie; for my predilection for your Society is indeed so great, that I should probably have joined it ere this; but never! no, never could I conform to this Moravian regulation!" 
                  She spoke with so much earnestness as to excite a smile from Rosalie, who, notwithstanding, was hopeful of her entire conversion to their system. Yet for prudential reasons she refrained from expressing this opinion; but directly after changed the conversation. 
                
                
                   
                  CHAPTER XVII. 
                  IT caused no little sensation throughout the whole of that quiet Moravian Settlement, especially among the Sisterhood, when it was announced that wives had to be provided for five missionaries, besides two lay resident Brethren. No marriage had been solemnized in the place since the commencement of the war; for the Society, with their characteristic prudence, discouraged matrimony in such troublous times, unless contracted under circumstances which perfectly justified it as necessary. This, together with the unusual number of candidates offering, caused more than ordinary excitement upon the subject. 
                  Of the latter Brethren, one was the warden of the congregagation, while the other, the only store-keeper allowed in the place. These two offices were frequently held by the same individual; but, on account of the onerous duties of the former in this place, there was this division of labor. In those days of the Church, the brotherly feeling prevalent in the Society did not permit more of them to conduct any kind of business in any of their Settlements than could readily find a support from it-and no competition was allowed, lest it might produce unpleasant results. 
                  Three of the missionaries had arrived in the Settlement, while the other two, not being able conveniently to leave their stations, requested their partners to be sent to them. 
                  This last arrangement very much astonished Elsie. 
                  "Surely, Rosalie, you must manage differently in such cases than with the others, since it cannot be possible you should be able to know how to select for such individuals, more especially if they are not personally known to any of your Conference, and are strangers to most of the rest of you." 
                  "These cases are only stronger exemplifications of our childlike faith and confidence in our Lord," she answered; "and our Brethren who make such an application, fully resign themselves to this peculiar way of ascertaining His holy will, and are prepared pared to follow implicitly what they suppose to be heavenly direction. Hence they do not reserve to themselves the right of refusing any Sister who is proposed-and the proposition, of course, is first submitted to the Sister. The Conference proceed in such cases somewhat different than the usual manner. They make a question to ascertain whether the Saviour approves of such a Sister for this or that Brother." 
                  "Well! are your Sisters found equally willing to consent to this arrangement?" 
                  "They generally are." 
                  "Then how do you proceed farther?" 
                  "The Sister who is chosen is immediately informed of the decision. She is not bound, however, to accept it, but is taught to consider it a solemn call from God, to try herself before him. She seeks by prayer to know the Divine will, and then acts according to the impressions she receives." 
                  "But what a wonderful degree of faith and resolution it must require to enable a delicate, sensitive woman to go thus forth to wed a stranger, whom perhaps after all she cannot like." 
                  "The same is the case, you know, with royal marriages," replied Rosalie, "the only particular difference between the two, being rank, station, position and wealth in the one, and self-denial, poverty, with, perhaps, sufferings in the other." 
                  "But yet their situations are not so similar as you represent, methinks," continued Elsie, "for, if I understand you, the Brethren who are thus supplied with wives, have sometimes no knowledge whatever, even of the names of their chosen partners, until they appear before them: whereas, on the contrary, the other party not only know of theirs, but themselves solicit the alliance." 
                  "I grant I did not take this view of the matter when I spoke. And yet our Sisters are asked, and that, too, by a monarch greater than any earthly potentate. One who has loved us with an everlasting love; and, impelled by its sacred impulses, we feel bound obediently to submit to our Saviour's leading-to throw off all our natural timidity, and readily, cheerfully, to sacrifice rifice every private, personal feeling-and we enter upon our calling sustained with His support and blessing." 
                  Among the single Sisterhood, especially the junior portion of them, notwithstanding their apparent efforts to the contrary, it directly became evidently manifest that these contemplated marriages were a subject of intense interest. It was attended, however, with this peculiarity-that the heart of each of these maidens did not palpitate in anxious anticipation for herself alone, but for all her companions; though every one was, of course, most interested in herself, and the greatest amount of personal consideration in the matter. But perhaps the sentiments they generally entertained, were a wholesale fellowship of sympathetic sensibilities, if I may so express it, resulting from the peculiarities of the social and personal character of their Society. It allowed no jealous rivalry among them; yet their hearts throbbed with the same feelings, and thrilled with kindred emotions of anxious expectancy. 
                  The day but two preceding the eventful one when these marriages were to be brought before the Conference, was the Sabbath day. 
                  The whole of the Sisterhood were in their appointed seats at church at all the services-thus giving the Brethren whose fates would probably be linked with some of that loving company, an opportunity of seeing them. The rule of the Society, forbidding to the young people even the casual glance to the opposite side of the church, was not on this day enforced, simply because it could not be. Each party seemed to take advantage of this rare liberty, and it is a question which did it the most. Certainly the Brethren took a more extensive range, while the gaze of the Sisterhood was almost concentrated upon the present candidates for matrimony among their dear Brethren. 
                  There they sat, all the youthful maidens of that Moravian Sisters' House, arrayed in their most becoming attire-to be looked at, and inquired of, by the expectant bridegrooms-each of whom had one or two friends beside him to answer the interrogatories he chose to make concerning any particular Sister. 
                   
                  And now, for the space of the brief interval to this important pending event, the excitement visibly increased. What added to this feeling, was the discovery that one or two of these dear Brethren were more than usually desirable. 
                  The elderess of the single Sisterhood, during this period, was a personage of very great importance in the place; for she prepared the list of Sisters, and much reliance was placed upon her judgment in the selection, as well as the opinion she expressed of each of them and their suitability for the partners proposed to them. Some of the interested sought now to propitiate her favor. 
                  Conspicuous among that group of candidates for matrimonial felicity was Annie Dohlman, now twenty-eight years of age. She possessed some good qualities, but other very bad ones-being a tattler, busy-body, and deceptive-disposed to scatter the firebrands of mischief among her associates, with whom she mingled as the only black sheep. Of course she had few friends. This Sister was one of those unfortunate spinsters who remain single from necessity, and not from choice. She was exceedingly anxious to be married. Suddenly, a change came over her-she was metamorphosed into a kind and amiable woman-so affectionate and considerate to her companions-so pious and devout in her religious duties, and so filially attentive to her dear elderess. 
                  In appearance, she was rather fine-looking, of a good figure, dressed neatly, and possessed a very loud, clear voice. She now indulged the hope, that among so many chances, she would certainly have an opportunity to get a husband. She desired to be the wife of a missionary, and to commend herself to these dear Brethren. She used her vocal powers to her best ability-appeared devotedly pious-spoke in laudatory terms of the missionary life, and her hope to be called to that service. But although, perhaps, she might have been sincere when she thus talked, her conduct was, at the same time, so indiscreet, as to increase the prejudice against her. But loudly, on that memorable Sabbath, did she raise her voice, to sing her way into favorable notice. 
                  The elderess, a very sagacious old lady, saw through her manuvres, and only quietly smiled. 
                   
                  The important time at length arrived when all these marriages were to be arranged. 
                  That of missionaries, and others holding official situations among the Moravians, required the sanction of the Unity's Elders' Conference, or of one of the Provincial Helpers' Conference, which convened in this Settlement for that purpose. 
                  The elderesses of the Sisters were both present-the single Sisters' elderess bringing with her the list she had made, which she presented to the presiding officer. 
                  After mature deliberation, and fervent prayer for spiritual guidance, reverently and solemnly they proceeded to propose partners for their dear missionary Brethren. These did not allow themselves to have any preference for any particular Sister; the selection of their companions for life being left entirely to the decision of the Church. Susan Stoltz and Mary Weiss were drawn, and accepted by two of the missionaries then in the place, while Sophy Dohlman and Christiana IIuber were the chosen brides of the absentees. 
                  The other missionary, three or four years before, had been to this Conference upon the same errand, when he desired very much to propose for Rosalie Steinberg. Being something of a naturalist, he fancied they possessed kindred minds. But her opinion did not coincide with his. She accidentally heard his intention to ask for her, but through the influence of her father prevented it from being tried by the "lot." Afterwards, he proposed successively for several others of the Sisters, who either refused him or were negatived by the "lot"-so that he was obliged to go to his field of labor unblessed with a helpmate. Dissatisfied in being thus thwarted in his wishes, the unhappy and unfortunate man now desired them to try it again-yet, with no better success; and, after several failures, he withdrew his name, resolved to make the same application in another Settlement-for a bachelor he was determined not to be any longer, if he could help it. 
                  In truth, though in many respects a worthy man, he had spoken so foolishly and imprudently in the place, of the manner he meant to manage his wife, as to render him so very unpopular among the Sisterhood, that those who were asked could not be induced to marry him. However, his words proved to be nothing more than idle talk-for when he at last succeeded in obtaining this long-sought treasure, never was a man more thoroughly under petticoat government than he-ay, and I am told appeared to like it well too, being, he said, "superlatively happy." But I am anticipating, and must return to where I left off in my story. 
                  It was early in the evening of the day subsequent to the preceding occurrence. The younger portion of the Sisters were all assembled in their usual apartment, either engaged in sewing, knitting, or in other useful occupation. The journals of some of their missionaries, which had been sent for their perusal, were just being read by one of their senior associates, when the door softly opened, and the confidential attendant of their elderess quietly came in. Expectation being on tiptoe, and the Sisterhood knowing her errand, no sooner did they perceive her than an excitement was directly visible upon the countenances of all that gathered band. She paused a moment, then smiled- 
                  "What you are reading is really very interesting," said she; "don't you think so, my dear Susan Stoltz?" looking significantly at her as she spoke. 
                  Susan replied by simply saying "yes;" then immediately rose and left the room. 
                  By and by the same messenger returned, walked up to Mary Weiss, and while apparently looking at her work, whispered something in her ear, when she too retired; afterwards again, twice did this little woman reenter in like manner, to summon the other two chosen brides. 
                  Each of these maidens was first very affectionately greeted by their elderess; next invited to a seat-then told, that by the direction of our Lord she was commissioned to propose Brother (mentioning his name) to be her husband; adding, that it was a high honor to be called to serve the Saviour-and in giving her hand to a servant of the Church she would be enabled to do so and a very efficient manner; that she sincerely hoped and prayed, if she consented to this proposal, she would earnestly seek for divine support and assistance, to enable her faithfully to discharge all the duties appertaining to it. She recommended to each of then, to make the matter a subject of frequent fervent prayer, and not to come to a decision without the most serious reflects; some time being allowed them to resolve the duties required of them; how they would be situated at their respective stations, and whatever was known of the character and disposition of their offered husbands. 
                
                
                  CHAPTER XVIII. 
                  THE following Sabbath not any of these chosen Sisters had as yet given her decision. The congregation assembled, as was their wont, in church; among them the drawers and the drawn in that matrimonial lottery; no marvel again there were wandering eyes, and beating hearts which throbbed with peculiar feelings-not with the grosser ones of an earth-born love, but kindled from the altar of religious faith, and glowing with intense devotion to God. 
                  The evening succeeding this, there was a clustering around that little band of chosen brides; when, with much emotion, one and all of these devoted ones solemnly declared their determination of accepting their proffered destiny, and were happy in the prospect of being usefully employed in the service of their dear Lord and Master. 
                  This had already been communicated by their elderess to the Conference, who immediately sent the intelligence to the bridegrooms elect. 
                  Soon afterwards came the betrothal; when, in presence of the Conference, their elderess, and mutual friends, the parties were solemnly pledged to their destined partners, and each gave her right hand successively to the different members of the Board as a token of their having consecrated themselves to their sacred work Then a prayer, especially applicable for the occasion, was made, followed by an appropriate hymn. Refreshments succeeded. After partaking of these, the newly betrothed received the blessing and congratulations of the whole assembly. 
                  This meeting was generally the introductory interview between those who had in such a peculiar manner plighted their faith to each other. A short season only, commonly not more than a week, for farther acquaintance, usually intervened ere they were married, during which interval both parties were obliged by their rules to be so guarded in their conduct, that it must have been painfully embarrassing, and surely it could scarcely be denominated a courtship. 
                  Such, in brief, I believe to be a true and unvarnished history of the whole course of procedure formerly adopted by the Primitive Moravians, in settling their matrimonial destinies. 
                  It has been the theme of many an idle jest-often excited the speculation of the curious, and been a marvel to a wondering world; giving, at the same time, a degree of romantic interest to the people themselves who practised it. 
                  I wish to speak of it with becoming reverence. I admit that it appears singularly unnatural to the general mind to marry thus; but, be it remembered that most of these devoted people possessed a simple, child-like, confiding faith which enabled them, in an astonishing manner, to crush their own wills and desires, and to rely entirely upon Divine direction in every event of their lives. 
                  There were cases, too, and they not unfrequently happened, I have been informed, where, if the individuals concerned had been consulted in the usual manner, they would have made the same choice as the "lot" decided; but not so with regard to all the maidens of whom I have been writing; nevertheless, neither of them had any fears or misgivings about their fitness for each other, nor had a doubt of their future happiness. They were willing to shelter themselves under the canopy of domestic and social love, without deeming it necessary to realize much more than an ideal impression of the nature of this sentiment. 
                  They considered their marriages as being made In heaven-and surely love, in its purest state, would necessarily follow in a connection thus appointed. Hence they could not only calmly and trustingly consent to a union thus formed, but could willingly relinquish all other ties of kindred and association, and accompany their partners to a distant land. Yea, and two of their number had not even seen their chosen companions for life. Hence they could not possibly entertain for them a stronger feeling than respect, with perhaps a large share of that sympathizing interest which I have mentioned as so prominently characteristic of the Moravian community in the primitive times of their Church. 
                  One of these brides, Sophy Dohlman, left a fond and widowed mother, who would then be bereft of all her children, every one being employed in the missionary field. She resigned them cheerfully, because of the work they were to be engaged in. And now, when age and feebleness were come upon her, she would be a childless mother. This good woman was but one of many examples which might be quoted of the self-sacrificing, self-denying spirit which then prevailed among the Moravians. 
                  Immediately after the marriages of the missionaries were decided, the other Conference met to choose mates for the warden and store-keeper. The same solemnities were observed as on the previous occasion. The "lot" was first used in behalf of the former Brother. He selected Rosalie Steinberg, but the "lot" drew a negative. Of this he was immediately informed. He regretted it very much, as he very highly esteemed her. He then mentioned Wilhelmina Leitner. To this some objection was made, on account of her tender age, and the recent affair with Lieutenant Morris. But the warden still desiring it, she was proposed, and the "lot" decided in the affirmative. 
                  Her parents were pleased with this proposal, but pleaded her youth as a reason for refusing their consent to an immediate marriage-besides, they urged the necessity of more time to eradicate cate the impressions of her previous attachment. They were both well acquainted with the warden, whose excellent character they appreciated; and, considering him a very suitable match for their only child, resolved that if he would consent to wait a while, they would then willingly bestow her on him, provided Wilhelmina was not averse to it. To this the warden agreed. 
                  The "lot" declared in favor of Catharine Englehart for the storekeeper. She was a very amiable and deserving young Sister, of whom her elderess, and all who knew her, spoke favorably. But this Brother, though he had seen her among the Sisterhood, was so slightly acquainted with her appearance that he could not distinguish her at all from the others. However, after some inquiries, and an opportunity to notice her in particular, he returned a favorable answer. The proposal was then submitted to her. It was an excellent offer to the poor girl, and, after a little hesitation, she accepted it. 
                  These triple marriages were soon, after all, solemnized. 
                  In the celebration of their marriages, the primitive Moravians were as peculiar as in their preliminary arrangements; but they did not all observe exactly the same ceremonial. I am speaking now of the way they were conducted in their Settlements, where, shut out from the rest of the world, and with all their usual officials about them, they could and did manage their affairs just as they pleased. 
                  This ceremony always took place in church, before the whole congregation. The brides were dressed with scrupulous neatness. When their toilet was completed, these maidens were received by their elderess, who took them to the elderess of their married Sisters, to whom she formally delivered them. This lady gave them a kindly greeting, and, at the given time, conducted each of them separately into the church, where simultaneously their intended husband was escorted thither by the elder of the same choir. Here the congregation and minister had previously assembled; the respective friends of the parties occupying the most prominent situations in the front. 
                  Their entrance was announced by the organ and violin, together with various wind instruments, sounding forth what might be termed a religious epithalamium. Just before the table fronting the pulpit, a sufficient number of chairs were placed for the different couples, whither they were led and seated-the brides on the one side, the grooms on the other-while the brides elect sat together at the head of the front bench, directly next the wedding group. 
                  The officiating clergyman gave out a hymn. Afterwards he first addressed the assembly, and then these couples. This done, the following verse, or another of a like import, was sung antiphonically: 
                  
                      
                        All. 
                         
                           "Thee, God of love and peace, 
                           We magnify and praise, 
                           Jesus, who on the cross 
                           Didst bleed and die for us: 
                         
                     
                      
                        Sisters. 
                        In thy salvation we rejoice, 
                     
                      
                        Brethren. 
                        And give thee praise with heart and voice. 
                     
                      
                        All. 
                         
                           Conscious, that all the happiness 
                           We in the married state possess, 
                           Flows solely, gracious Lord, from thee; 
                           For this thy name we glorify. Amen." 
                         
                     
                   
                  On the singing of the last line, the minister slowly left his place, and advanced towards the marrying party-"the elder and elderess of the married people doing the same. The latter had with her a small parcel neatly put up in white paper, which when she neared the brides she carefully opened. It contained some bright blue ribbon. Hereupon the minister asked them the usual questions; afterwards he joined the hands of the respective parties. Then the elderess herself untied the ribbon of the caps of her young Sisters (they always wore caps in church), when the pink ribbon of maidenhood was exchanged t for the blue one of matrimony. The elder and elderess gave the kiss of peace-the former to the grooms and the latter to their brides; after which the minister blessed the newly-wedded, commending them and the lone brides of the distant missionaries to the prayers of the whole assembly. Then this hymn, or a similar one, was sung:- 
                         
                           "Since them, O Lord, with thine own hand 
                           Hast tied our sacred marriage band, 
                           Grant that thy dying love may be 
                           The source of our felicity. 
                           Our souls and bodies, Lamb of God, 
                           Besprinkle with thy precious blood; 
                           Subdue what's carnal, by the death, 
                           That godly we may live by faith. 
                           With mouth and hand our choir to thee 
                           Vows homage and fidelity, 
                           Till we our heavenly home shall gain; 
                           Thereto, Lord Jesus, say Amen." 
                        
                     
                   
                  And now this service was over. Congratulations followed, and then the congregation scattered. Afterwards, a more private meeting was held, where only the relatives and friends of the parties were present, together with all the members of the Conference; when wine and other refreshments were served, and friendly conversations were for a period indulged in. 
                  A few days only elapsed after this, when the missionaries departed for their fields of labor; the two brides elect accompanying the newly married couples to the West Indies, where they were, in due time, united to their stranger bridegrooms. 
                
                
                  CHAPTER XIX. 
                  WITH a strange mixture of emotions of deep interest Ashley take note of all these extraordinary marriages; and, judging of the hearts of others by the warm sensibilities of her own, she could not yet comprehend how an union formed entirely upon such a basis could be sufficient to insure the quantum of felicity necessary to satisfy an ardent, affectionate disposition. 
                  But the conduct of Rosalie Steinberg and Wilhelmina Leitner puzzled her more than the rest. 
                  It appeared very evident the former felt much interested in the warden, and disappointed that the "lot" did not favor her union with him; yet the effect was apparently transient-and calmly did she listen to Mr. and Mrs. Leitner, as they spoke of the probability of his marrying their daughter. Elsie, however, fancied that her countenance beamed with peculiar pleasure when the worthy parents urged her, as they said, at the request of the warden, to be more than ever with Wilhelmina-to imbue her with her sentiments, in order to impress her youthful mind, if possible, with the beautiful lineaments of her own. 
                  Wilhelmina, with the ductility of childhood, and seemingly without much effort, as readily agreed to all their propositions, thus preparing herself to yield a willing submission to the wishes of her family, and the choice of the Church. She knew that they both possessed naturally strong feelings, therefore could not understand them. 
                  She ventured to talk the matter over with her friend Rosalie, who, in reply, said: 
                  "I acknowledge, my dear Elsie, that there are cases, and I speak from experience, when our natural feelings may for a moment array themselves against this regulation of ours-for, believe me, we are not stoics. Some of us have suffered deeply in casting off, or checking, an earth-born affection." 
                  "But if the object should be pious-one who, like the warden, for example, was in every respect suitable, methinks the inclination might be gratified; that the propriety of such a marriage could not be questioned would be so convincingly apparent, there need be no occasion to have recourse to the lot.'" 
                  Rosalie sighed. 
                  "Thus it indeed appears-yet 'man proposes, but God disposes.' You know, Elsie, human judgment is weak and erring; our short-sightedness makes us incapable of understanding what is best for us. Hence, when we commit our destiny to our Heavenly Father, it is with child-like, filial confidence in Him that He will certainly Direct it aright." 
                  "Do tell me, dear Rosalie, if either of the Sisters who are just married had any previous attachment." 
                   
                  "The secret history of their hearts I am not acquainted with but from their secluded manner of living I should judge not." 
                  "Well, this is probably the reason why they so readily acquiesced in this arrangement." 
                  "Perhaps so; yet believe me, my dear Elsie, that if I marry I shall as cheerfully and promptly go forth to accomplish my destiny as they did; and you know I have been oppressed with the burden of earthly love-have felt all its torments, all its charms. And oh! dear sister of my heart, believe me, that far, far preferable to any human feeling, any earthly desire, is this repose of the soul on the Saviour; and most favored of mortals are they who can thus trust themselves under the shadow of Divine care. Our Sisters, doubtless, were actuated solely by a sense of duty. The principle they acted upon is the mainspring of that self-denial-that unreserved dedication of themselves unto the Lord-that zeal and devotion to His service, and willing acquiescence to His will, which has often distinguished the members of our communion. And as every blessing comes from God I cannot but believe that a marriage thus contracted must ever form a happy connection." 
                  "This I would think might be the case with missionaries, and others who are influenced purely by their religious fervor and pious zeal; but that it should always attend other marriages, I confess, to me seems not as probable." 
                  "Look at our Sister Wilhelmina," replied Rosalie; "see, she is already beginning to be cheerful, and will, as I told you, become perfectly resigned to the decision of the Church." 
                  "I marvel much at her-but I suppose she is of a very pliant nature-yet surely she could not have had such strong feelings of regard for her noble-hearted and generous lever as I gave her credit for, or she could not so easily have been made willing so soon to give encouragement to another proposal. Perhaps she is one whose feelings are all on the surface, who have no depth or intensity of sensibilities." 
                  "I think you are greatly mistaken in her, if such be your opinion; but remember, my dear Elsie, early habits and impressions sions are not easily obliterated; and when but a child she became subject to our rules and regulations; taught, though so young, the necessity of self-discipline and perfect obedience to them." 
                  "But the human heart is naturally so perverse and wayward, and she so inexperienced in its mysterious yearnings, its requirements, that she may deceive herself; her affections may be crushed, but not extinguished-therefore, after all, he may not be happy with her chosen husband." 
                  "I do not anticipate any such misfortune," answered Rosalie; "I have the fullest confidence that she will, ere that time, have entirely subdued this unfortunate attachment. But, my dear friend, wait until she has doffed the pink ribbon for the blue; when, as you are so intimately acquainted with her, and she is so confiding, you will have a fine opportunity of forming an accurate opinion of her sentiments on the subject; and I doubt not she will then satisfy you of her having completely conquered herself-having no thought or feeling that would shame her plighted faith to her husband." 
                  Elsie shook her head, doubtingly. When she looked into her own heart, notwithstanding the religious feelings impressed there, she found the devoted affection she cherished for her beloved Edward still the great charm of her young being; and, under the powerful influence of her passionate, tender love for him, she judged thus. Hence, had she not previously become so strongly biased in favor of the Moravians, she probably would have considered this usage of theirs as fanatical, and the sect as visionary religionists. But these prepossessions and sentiments of regard for them, instead, only increased Elsie's interest in the people, exciting more and more of her curiosity and wonder. 
                  But while pondering upon the singular circumstances of these matrimonial alliances, another event of a kindred nature occurred in the Settlement, which in like manner deeply interested her-although she scarcely knew the parties concerned, except by sight. 
                  The case was simply this:-A mother died some twenty-two years before, leaving an only child, an infant son, whom, when dying, she particularly commended to the attention of a very dear friend, who, having lost her own babe about the same time, took the little boy in the place of the dead, and cherished him as her own. 
                  The father of her nursling, a clergyman, had his sphere of labor soon after changed; but on his removal, at the earnest entreaty of the adopted mother, left the child with her; and for twelve years or more he knew no other parent's care, and when from boarding-school, had found no other home than hers. 
                  In the meantime, sons and daughters were born in this family; nevertheless, the foster-son was as kindly welcomed and as dearly beloved as ever-and no marvel either, he being an affectionate, amiable lad-comely, frank, generous and warm-hearted. Nor is it surprising that among the children of that household he should have found one especial favorite. After the lapse of those twelve years or more, this minister was again re-appointed to his former charge. In the interval of his absence he had married again, and had now several other children besides the son of his first wife. These two families directly renewed their intimacy, and between the eldest daughters of each a very close bond of friendship soon existed. 
                  I am speaking of the families of the Rev, Mr. Moehring, the minister pro tem. of that Settlement, and of Dr. Bender-the two young girls being Augusta. Moehring and Louisa Bender-while that of the youth was Eugene Moehring. 
                  The boy had become a man; the little Louisa grown to womanhood, and rather an interesting girl. Ere this, however, intercourse between these young people had become more and more restricted, until the time arrived when it was altogether forbidden. There were no longer glad meetings after long separations-but the pure attachment of childhood remained; and while fond memory lingered upon those days of innocent enjoyment and happiness, the embers of childhood's impressions were kindled into love. 
                  Eugene Moehring was the first to make this discovery. His feelings were strong and impetuous; but he was a pious youth, destined for his father's profession, and, besides, thoroughly imbued bued with all the rules and regulations of the Moravians. Yet, by and by, his cheek paled, he grew thin and pensive. His friends attributed this state of health to hard study, and some fears were expressed of his being perhaps consumptive. Good Doctor Bender was consulted. He faithfully examined his patient, quietly shook his head, remarked the case was somewhat peculiar, and he must soon see him again. His affectionate adopted mother and his foster-brothers and little sister clustered around him with kind, sympathetic inquiries; but Louisa could not mingle with them, on account of the interdict-yet she felt the most, though she said little. But she and Augusta Moehring were now more intimate than ever. It thus chanced, notwithstanding the rigid rules of the Society, Eugene and Louisa sometimes met. And yet, more unfortunate for the twain, on one of these occasions Eugene fainted, and for a space was left alone with the compassionate Louisa, while his sister Augusta, very much terrified, ran for Doctor Bender. 
                  Not long after this, Eugene was ordained, and became a candidate for clerical duty in the Church. He offered himself as a missionary, and received a call to labor in one of the West India islands. He desired to be married before the went. He proposed, Louisa Bender, The "lot" proved unpropitious to his wishes. He would not try another Sister. After this, he became paler than before-sad and dispirited-then too ill to go to his appointed post. Poor Louisa suffered, too, and that deeply-and when in the ravings of delirium, Eugene Moehring blended her name with all his fond imaginings, Doctor Bender and his kind-hearted wife first realized that the sickness of their foster-son, had been entirely occasioned by his love for their daughter. 
                  The Doctor, from his wealth, talents, and worth of character, was a man of considerable importance in that community, while Mr. Moehring, in the elevated position he held as the minister of the congregation, was highly esteemed and respected. Both were very influential men, and their examples of conduct were of some consequence in the Settlement. Though they felt as fathers, and trembled with anxious concern over the happiness of their children, yet, as members of the Moravian Church, they were bound to sacrifice their feelings upon the shrine of duty. Accordingly, although this connection would have been exceedingly agreeable to both families, if Heaven had so willed it, yet both of the friends now felt constrained to frown this youthful attachment to extinction. 
                  But this could not be. The affection which commenced in the very budding of childhood, so increased with their growth and strengthened with their strength, that with both parties it had become an essential part of their nature, and as dear as life itself. With Eugene, in particular, it was an all-absorbing passion; and he found that even his piety, though truly sincere, was not as strong as his love. He could not make this sacrifice for it. In vain, therefore, the good Doctor and his father urged him to seek to change the current of his feelings by travel. Instead thereof, he resolved to try his fate anew; and presenting himself before the Conference, he repeated his request to be married, and again desired Louisa Bender. To this they at first objected, as she had been already tried, but at his earnest entreaty they consented. This time the decision was in the affirmative. And Eugene Moehring and Louisa Bender were soon after united. 
                  "How strange!" remarked some. 
                  "But it was only a trial of our faith, my dear Louisa," said the happy husband, "for God and our dear parents certainly designed us for each other;" and with the happiness of their mutual love beaming in their very countenances, did they go forth together to their appointed work. 
                
                
                  CHAPTER XX. 
                  ALMOST directly subsequent to the departure of the military from the Settlement, Elsie Ashley left the Sisters' House to return to the Neissers, much to the joy of little Benigna Waldemar. A day or two after this, a letter came to Benigna from Doctor Tracy, inclosing another from her beloved friend Emily, the first she had ever written to her. 
                  An epistolary intercourse had been maintained between Mrs. Tracy and Elsie; but, from various causes, these communications were not frequent, but, like "angels' visits, few and far between!" Benigna had only written one. It was her first effort at letter-writing. It pleased the whole family very much, and brought an answer from every one of them. 
                  To Benigna, who had never supplied the place of her beloved Emily in her heart, and cherished such an affectionate remembrance of the rest of the family, this event was of deep interest. It added much to the lonely orphan's happiness on the occasion, that all these dear friends wrote to her. One sheet was filled by Mrs. Tracy, Emily, and Frederick, while the good Doctor also sent her a letter; each, and every one, manifesting their continued interest and regard for her, expressed in the kindest terms. 
                  The Tracys were residing in a beautiful villa in the vicinity of Paris, where Frederick and Emily had various professors and instructors to attend to their education. The family lived quite retired; not mingling much in the gay society of the French metropolis, but participating moderately in its amusements, and forming a very agreeable circle of acquaintances. 
                  Mr. Tracy had been very successful in business, having accumulated a handsome fortune. He intended presently to retire from the active duties of commercial life; and, did circumstances warrant it, would probably soon after return to his native land, "So you see, my dear child," continued Mrs. Tracy, "the anticipations we indulged in on our departure may indeed be realized." 
                  Underneath the seal of the Doctor's letter, Benigna found a guinea in an envelope, which he sent her, he said, to buy some little nick-nack in remembrance of his regard. All these circumstances strangely affected Benigna: another drop in her cup of rejoicing being thus added to that lovely, affectionate, and gentle girl. And she needed some such consolation just then; for, in truth, the situation of the young orphan was becoming more and more trying and difficult for her to endure. It is sad to see "the cherub wings of childhood burdened with the cares of age;" and how painful for a child to feel the anxieties of maturity resting upon her young heart-yet such was the experience of Benigna Waldemar ere she had scarcely seen ten summers. 
                  The Neissers had become in very impoverished circumstances, produced by the war and the continued ill-health of the father. Much arduous duty in consequence devolved upon the child. They were too severe; and presently her pale, haggard countenance manifested this so much as to excite the fears of even the mother. 
                  The old people at this time had no tenants, except in the shop and rear building; which, together, with the sum they received from Elsie, was their only income, and not enough for their support. But there is always a kind over-ruling Providence watching over the good and the helpless, and when their worldly affairs are darkest, and most perplexed, some relief is unexpectedly obtained. 
                  It so happened in this instance;-several missionaries and their families from the West Indies, together with two missionary couples from one of the Indian stations in North America, came into the Settlement to stay awhile. These all had to be accommodated with lodgings. Some of them took apartments at the Neissers'; thus all their vacant rooms were filled-and as soon as the arrangement could be made, they boarded with the family. 
                  In order to do this, however, it was necessary to employ a responsible faithful woman to take charge and perform the laborious part of the household duties. Fortunately, directly thereupon the services of Sister Winny could be secured-and as she understood the whole routine of housekeeping, and possessed all the other requisites for the undertaking, they engaged her. This arrangement lightened Benigna's care and anxieties considerably. 
                  Benigna, at this period, raised a considerable quantity of silkworms, and in addition had several bee-hives. From these sources she obtained some little money, but not much; yet sufficient to encourage her to continue to keep them. 
                  Her adopted parents, notwithstanding their poverty, did not encroach upon either of the little sums belonging to Benigna. They had immediately placed the twenty pounds her uncle gave her out at interest; so also the three guineas which Doctor Tracy handed her on account of the child; and they fain would have added the last guinea she received from him, but they found this impossible. In truth, until this period, the personal expenses for the child were exceedingly trifling, owing to the articles her aunt Annie provided, and the considerate kindness of Mrs. Tracy, who had several times presented Benigna with different pieces of clothing. 
                  The Neissers now for a space enjoyed comparative prosperity. Under Sister Winny's care everything was well regulated in the house, notwithstanding the infirm state of both of the heads of the family. The good woman always liked Miss Ashley; but the little Benigna soon became her especial favorite. Indeed, she loved the sweet child better than she did any other human being-and she would have declined no service she could render her, appearing always the happiest when she had her near. 
                  Benigna, in return, loved the good creature very much. And this friendship proved of real service to both, dissimilar as were their characters, dispositions, and situations. The first, and perhaps the greatest proof of this was, that by this means Sister Winny was no longer the ignorant woman she had been; for Benigna taught her to spell and read, while she the more gladly and willingly did all she could for the child, to lessen her labors and cares. 
                  Besides, the Moravian hymns and stories had now indeed an interested and pleased listener; listeners, I should have said-for Elsie, too, heard them with pleasure; and many a tale of wonderful escapes, or cruel deaths, were now told to the two friends, not only by the pious domestic, but by Mother Neisser. 
                  The old lady did nothing else of domestic work at this period, of any consequence, but spin and knit-and when engaged in the latter employment she was most inclined to talk. She told Elsie and Benigna of the wonderful escape of her own father out of a dungeon, from whence he expected to be taken to the stake and die; that by some fortunate accident, just the night previous to his intended execution, not only did he find the door of his cell open, but the outer gates unfastened; thus he escaped without difficulty. The real state of the case being the absence of the jailor-and his deputy and sentinels, neglecting their duty of seeing to the security of the prisoners, were drinking and carousing in another part of the building, far removed from their charge. 
                  Another history she gave in relation to her mother's father, who was subjected to the most cruel and unheard of tortures-at one time suspended in a chimney over a straw fire, which fortunately being damp, saved his life. Yet the smoke tormented him. Afterwards his persecutors threatened to have his ears cut off, then to be burnt alive at the stake. In the meanwhile they confined him in a dungeon swarming with frogs, mice, and other vermin. But he was rescued from his sufferings by a destructive fire in the place, which destroyed the greater part of it, including the jail. In the confusion it occasioned he made his escape. 
                  Then again, Mother Neisser gave a narrative of her husband's father's suffering and persecution in his native land for the sake of the Gospel; and finally of his being put upon the rack and tortured until his persecutors thought him dead, and then threw him into a ditch like a dead dog. But he had only fainted, and presently revived-then tried to make his escape, but his lacerated limbs prevented him. Providentially, at this moment his situation was perceived by a passer-by, a very humane, good man, who assisted him to his house, where he remained concealed until able to effect his escape out of the country. 
                  Then Sister Winny would sing some snatches of Moravian hymns, like the following:- 
                         
                           "The Brethren coming from Moravia's land, 
                           Have given to their dear Saviour heart and hand; 
                           They've suffered gladly for him, and will give 
                           Their souls and bodies freely to him, while they live." 
                        
                     
                      And again: 
                         
                           "Blest Church of poor sinners, sing praise to the Lord, 
                           To Jesus, the Nazarene, the flesh made Word; 
                           Who forms thee so glorious, out of his pierced side, 
                           And makes thee, in blood washed, his beautiful Bride. 
                        
                         
                           Thy God, thy Creator, thy nature put on, 
                           Because disobedience had made thee undone; 
                           He left his throne royal, a Child he became, 
                           And bore in his body thy baseness and shame. 
                        
                         
                           So like a curs'd rebel, he's nailed to the tree, 
                           Forth shedding a blood-stream for thee, and for me, 
                           Delivering his Spirit up to his dear Sire, 
                           Cries out, 'It is finished;' and so does expire. 
                        
                         
                           No bone shall be broken, the side shall be bored; 
                           This shall be the token of Jesus, the Lord: 
                           So pierceth the soldier his side, and a flood 
                           Out gushes; he cometh with water and blood." 
                        
                     
                   
                
                
                  CHAPTER XXI. 
                  THE next event of interest occurring in the Settlement in relation to the characters of my story is the celebration of the Single Sisters' Festival. 
                  It was the 4th of May, 1780, and fifty years since their banded union had been formed to marry only in the Lord. Faithfully, I believe, the maidens had kept this vow, and continued to acquiesce in this singular arrangement; for their simple, child-like confidence in the use of the "lot" to determine their married destiny, with few rare exceptions, continued as strong as ever. Each year they had renewed their pledge-though this particular day was not set apart as a festive memorial of it until fifteen years later: hence, without any prochronism, this year it could be regarded as a semi-centennial anniversary season of this truly remarkable occurrence. Thus they considered it; and while again renewing this resolve, because of its being just fifty years from the period of the organization of their association, they determined to observe the day with more than the usual ceremonial. 
                  It was almost too early in the season for many flowers; but some May roses were blooming, with violets, daffodils, cowslips, forget-me-nots, and a few others. 
                  They collected for the occasion as great a number as they could, and roses being their favorite flowers, they supplied themselves with a large quantity of them. They decorated their own private chapel with wreaths of these-fifty pink and red roses in each, while a table in the centre of this room had two elevated illuminated pyramids. One of them contained the names of all the eighteen maidens who originated this peculiar custom-while upon the other were inscribed those of the present members of the Sisterhood in the Settlement. The 4th of May, 1730, was upon the former, and on the latter, 4th of May, 1780. Wreaths of flowers, each containing fifty roses, joined these pyramids, while here and there upon the table, were a number of roses and flowers in pairs, tied together with a piece of blue ribbon. 
                  Elsie, Rosalie, and Wilhelmina were together at the table. The arrangement of these flowers attracted the attention of the former. 
                  "What is the meaning of this?" she inquired. Rosalie smiled. 
                  "Cannot you guess?" she asked. 
                  "Why, no!" 
                  Rosalie looked archly at her, and pointing to the blue ribbon, replied: 
                  "Well, then, I must tell you, I suppose. It means, that although we are now single, yet we do not expect always to be so; and the blue ribbon, you know, is the color worn by our married Sisters." 
                  "It is quite a significant idea," said Elsie, "and the flowers, how very prettily they are arranged! Why, here are some forget-me-nots! a very good fancy indeed; and I would suggest that these should be sent to some of the dear single Brethren!" 
                   
                  "Oh shocking, my dear Elsie!" replied Rosalie, trying to look serious, "this is too much in the Lizzie Brunner style-not at all Moravian-like, I assure you. Why such a thing would be an unheard-of impropriety among us!" 
                  "But although you are so very particular, yet as you are allowed to present the idea of marriage here by the emblem of united flowers, suppose we take the liberty of going a little farther, and give an individual character to a few of them. For instance, I know at least of one of your party who ere long expects to leave your ranks, and probably make her last appearance at this festival. What say you, Sister Wilhelmina, is not this so?" 
                  She smiled, as she quietly replied in the affirmative. 
                  "Then we can represent you and the good warden by this beautiful pair of roses, so fancifully tied together with a true Moravian knot." 
                  "Yes, it is really true that I am at length to be married to dear Brother Dober, and we are to be betrothed to each other next week," she continued, her face at the same time beaming with pleasure. 
                  This news, though expected, somewhat startled Elsie, and after she and Rosalie had congratulated Wilhelmina, she whispered to, her friend- 
                  "May I ask her the question, if she is really happy in the prospect of marrying the warden, or if she is only following the impulse of what she considers to be her duty?" 
                  "Certainly, my dear Elsie; satisfy yourself by making as many inquiries of her as you please upon the subject." 
                  Wilhelmina immediately assured her that, although she had not had the opportunity of becoming much acquainted with the warden, she felt convinced she had placed her happiness in very secure keeping; hence she accepted this chosen partner of her destiny with her whole heart. 
                  "Well! fifty years you have observed this strange custom," said Elsie, musingly, "and I wonder, Rosalie, if you will continue it fifty years more!" 
                   
                  "I trust so, and other fifties besides, I hope," answered this true daughter of the church; "and, depend upon it, we will be willing to continue to conform to this regulation as long as we are devoted in spirit to our Lord as we now are, have the same child-like confidence in his gracious leading, and retain our strong love and interest in each other." 
                  Their conversation was here interrupted by the preparatory bell for the morning service. This was held by the venerable Bishop Steinberg, who, after taking a survey of his interesting auditory, delivered an address or homily to them in language similar to the following: 
                  "We have now assembled, my dear Sisters, to keep your annual pleasant festival. It gives me peculiar pleasure to see you all before me on this occasion, and from my heart I congratulate you, dearly beloved in the Lord, that ye still are mindful of your covenant, and are resigned to the will of our Saviour, preferring to be directed by his gracious leadings than to follow the counsels of the worldly-minded. I look around me and see all those that were present on your last festival-none of you have been removed by death or otherwise; but instead, your numbers are increased by the addition of two more single Sisters from Germany. I welcome these dear Sisters among you with joy, and hope that you all will submit yourselves anew to the Saviour, and, on this great celebration of yours, consecrate yourselves with fresh devotion to his blessed service. 
                  "Oh, yours is an enviable situation, my dear Sisters! if you really love our Lord in sincerity and truth, and are determined to give to him alone the best affections of your hearts! When girls arrive at years of reflection, what can they do better than this, and with soul and body surrender themseves to their Saviour as his entire property? Certainly he has purchased them with his own blood, and delivered himself unto death for them. This passage of Scripture ought, therefore, to be well established in their hearts: 'He died for all, that they which live should riot henceforth live unto themselves, but unto him which died for them and rose again' (2 Cor. v. 15). And (Rom. xiv. 7), 'None of us liveth unto himself, and no man dieth to himself. For whether we live, we live unto the Lord, and whether we die, we die unto the Lord,-for to this end Christ both died and rose and revived, that he might be Lord both of the dead and living.' 
                  "Thus they resign themselves entirely (as a handmaid of Jesus ought, who is the Lord's sole property, and whom he has so dearly bought) to the will and good pleasure of their Lord; and whatsoever he pleaseth to do with them, although it may be hard and disagreeable, they answer with yea and amen. The Holy Ghost worketh to this end with each of them, to teach, lead, and guide them with incomprehensible fidelity, wisdom, and grace. As long as any one remains in her single state, she careth for the things of the Lord, 'that she may be holy both in body and spirit' (1 Cor. vii. 34). She endeavors to be preserved by his grace from 'the love of the world' (1 John, ii. 15), and knows she is to 'keep her heart with all diligence' (Prov. iv. 23), and also, that the end of the commandment is, 'charity, love, out of a pure heart, and of a good conscience, and of a faith unfeigned' (1 Tim. i.5).
                        See Spangenberg's "Exposition of Christian Doctrine," p. 344.
                     
                   
                  "Yet, should any of you, my dear Sisters, be asked in marriage by any of our dear Brethren, ponder well upon it ere you reject the offer-for it may be that ye may be called upon by our dear Lord to enter into this holy state. For marriage is to be looked upon as a wise institution, approved of by God for mutual assistance-the promotion of comfort and happiness; and it is a highly honorable condition. Therefore, should such a proposal be made to you, and you feel assured in your heart that it comes from the Lord, you should comply with it for his sake, though you know beforehand, that you will meet with more difficulties and trials in the married than in the single state. But if a Sister is not convinced of this, and has reason to apprehend, besides, that she shall suffer in her soul and depart from that happy path in which she is in her present condition, she has then, according to Scripture, liberty to remain single. Therefore, dearly beloved Sisters, be ye watchful over yourselves; and may our good and gracious Lord, the Bridegroom of his Church, ever be with you, bless you, and wholly sanctify each and every one of you. And whether married or single, may you continue to be his faithful servants unto your life's end." 
                  An excellent dinner followed this exordium; for the Sisters always entertained themselves very liberally on these occasions. On this day they all fared alike-those who were too poor to afford the expense being provided with this meal by such of their associates as had the ability to do it. 
                  I have been told on this auspicious festival occasion they were a happy party-that long array of Sister-maidens-and though many a joke was passed upon their single blessedness, and much harmless speculation prevailed upon its continuance, and guesses as to who of them, perhaps, would leave their ranks the coming year, and be among the missing at their next anniversary-yet all were contented to remain even as they then were. Indeed, they were altogether so happy and cheerful, they entirely confuted the assertion of the discomforts and miseries of a life of celibacy-or at least proved that old maids can be quite as happy as other people; so said Elsie Ashley, laughing, to her friend Rosalie. 
                  "And it is really so; for no people on the earth can be happier than we generally are," she replied. 
                  In the afternoon they held their love-feast, which was conducted with the usual solemnities. Then the Sisterhood partook of the Cup of Covenant together, during the singing of the following or another appropriate verse:- 
                         
                           "We who here together are assembled, 
                           Joining hearts and hands in one, 
                           Bind ourselves with that's undissembled, 
                           Christ to love and serve alone." 
                        
                     
                   
                  They concluded the meeting by giving each other the Kiss of Peace, and closed the exercises of the day by a beautiful liturgical service. 
                  The festivities of the day were closed by a serenade from the jingle Brethren, who stood before the Sisters' House, and played some of their choicest and most beautiful pieces of church music. These performances lasted a considerable time. 
                  Elsie, as an invited guest, participated in all these services, so new and novel, with a deep feeling of interest. But the whole being conducted in the German language, much of it would have been lost to her, had not Rosalie Steinberg kindly acted as interpreter. 
                  She was much amused tat the earnestness of her friend in giving her explanations; and when she had told the substance of the address, laughingly remarked:- 
                  "Well, your father, I observe, knows how to reconcile you all to your destiny-but while he said enough to comfort the single among you, I perceive that he does not particularly recommend a life of single blessedness." 
                  "You are right, Elsie; but the reason he spoke as he did this morning was, because some of our Sisterhood become so attached to this mode of living, that they cannot be induced to give it up; and, in consequence, our single Brethren who wish to get married, sometimes experience difficulty in getting wives." 
                  "Depend upon it, my dear Rosalie, that the best way to remove that trouble would be to allow an occasional intermingling between all the young people. It would be the very best remedy for this want of sympathy and natural feeling." 
                  "It might really have that effect," said her friend; "but certainly another, which would be a serious objection to trying this experiment." 
                  "What?" asked Elsie. 
                  "Why, we would begin to suit ourselves, and then farewell to the use of the lot" 
                  "And what then?" 
                  "Why, we would degenerate into mere worldlings, and soon lose altogether our simplicity of character-our devotedness of spirit-which God forbid! Oh, no, dear Elsie! this remedy would be worse than the difficulty, believe me; but as this idea is distressing to me, pray let us dismiss the subject." 
                  A week or two subsequent to this conversation, the marriage of the warden with Wilhelmina Leitner occurred, much to the gratification of her parents; while she submitted to her destiny, like one who, if not a fond, was a willing bride, and well satisfied with the husband selected for her. 
                
                
                  CHAPTER XXII. 
                  SOME months had passed since Elsie and Benigna again shared the same home, when the former received a letter from Captain Vincent, informing her of his having heard of a party answering to the description of the missing members of her family, being certainly on the Canada side of the river St. Lawrence, almost opposite to Niagara. They were said to be under the charge of several Indian warriors, who kept strict guard over them to prevent their escape. He believed them to be the same of whom he had previously written, but he could not obtain any more positive information concerning them. This letter was soon followed by one from New York, mentioning a report which had just reached there, of several Americans, captives of the savages, having been recently treacherously killed by them, and the surmise prevailed of Mr. Walton and his sons being the unfortunate victims. 
                  And now, for a space, an anguish which almost overwhelmed her preyed upon the heart of Elsie Ashley, for she allowed herself to believe the sad tale, because all the family besides were mourning these beloved ones as among the dead. It was in this season of keen sorrow she realized to the full extent her lonely and isolated condition; she felt the want of that participation of feeling which the heart craves when passing through any particular affliction, and she sighed for the companionship of some affectionate spirit, who could penetrate into its deepest recesses, and understand how to pour the balm of consolation in her aching heart. But, shut out from these kindly sympathies by her peculiar situation, the effort to calm her agitation became the greater. It is true that Rosalie Steinberg and Wilhelmina Dober both sought in their way to comfort her. But, though kindly done, the serene countenance of the one, with the calm look of the other, only aggravated her distress. And both were indeed very kind and attentive, but Elsie believed they only bestowed pity upon her-that they had no sympathy for such kind of suffering; for she argued, if they really heartily felt for her grief, they could not wear so muck the look of gladness. 
                  But the pale, tearful face of Benigna Waldemar, while with quivering lip and trembling tongue she tried to console her, was like an angel of peace and comfort to her troubled spirit. It had an irresistible effect, and perfectly subdued her; and, clasping her fondly to her heart, the two orphans mingled their tears. 
                  In fact, though Benigna Waldemar did not understand her sorrow, the child, young as she was, had experienced that isolation of feeling which only the lonely in heart know; she had felt the like aching void which is inseparable from a solitary being. She possessed all those yearnings of the soul arising, from her peculiar condition-her finely constituted mind, so sensitive in its nature. 
                  We all crave companionship with our kind; and, as I have stated, since the departure of her friend Emily, Benigna had no associate of her own age with whom she formed any intimacy whatever. In fact, she had not the opportunity to do so; and, shut out from nearly all intercourse with children, no marvel, therefore, if her warm, loving heart attached itself the more strongly to Elsie-that she could, in a measure, realize her present isolation-somewhat partake in the mental agony of her distressed friend, and thus really assimilate her feelings to hers. 
                  With the instinctive sensibilities of her own affectionate nature, she touched some sympathetic chord in the heart of the desponding girl; used just the fitting words that were needed, which gently soothed her. The sweet child, noticing that her attentions were really agreeable to Elsie, continued her efforts and often succeeded in diverting her thoughts from gloomy anticipations. 
                   
                  Thus two or three weeks passed, when another communication arrived from Captain Vincent, corroborating the account of a murder having been committed, but stated positively that only one person had been killed by the savages, and he a lone captive. To the hopeful disposition of Elsie Ashley, this was quite sufficient to revive her drooping spirits, and encourage pleasant anticipations. 
                  Elsie now devoted herself more than ever to her dear, good, little comforter, as she fondly called Benigna, whose rapid improvement of mind under her culture, was frequently spoken of, while her exceeding loveliness of person and disposition, with her winning ways, could not but increase the interest, and endear the child more and more to her. 
                  But Elsie presently perceived that the health of her little favorite was becoming very delicate. She had a fearful cough, accompanied by a pain in the side; symptoms supposed to indicate a tendency to consumption, the disease of which her mother died. 
                  Elsie watched over, and nursed her with trembling anxiety and fondness. She was astonished at her spirituality and heavenly-mindedness-her patience and resignation. At length she became alarmingly ill, and many thought she certainly must die. But Benigna Waldemar feared not the great destroyer. She smiled with ineffable joy when told that probably he was near at hand to bear her away-for she regarded him as the kind messenger sent to convey her willing spirit to heaven, of which place she had the most delightful imaginings. 
                  However, she had not yet accomplished her destiny. This fair plant of heavenly birth was not only to bud on earth, but the lovely blossoming of her virtues and transcendent piety were to be so spiritually fragrant and fertilizing as to refresh her fellow-Christian associates; and then, to help to make some of the waste places of the earth to bloom like the rose. 
                  It is believed that coming events sometimes cast their shadows beforehand perhaps it was so to the young Benigna as she lay in her feebleness, convalescing from that fearful illness. Her mind seemed to glance into the future, and when she received back the precious gift of life, it was to consecrate it and herself to the future service of Him who had thus renovated her being. Henceforth, she determined, child as she was, not to live for herself alone, but to fulfil all the duties of a Christian life; and that supreme Jove to God should be the predominant principle to govern all her actions. Deeply impressed with this subject, she frequently discussed it with Elsie, who in turn became deeply interested in the conversation of this young disciple. 
                  Benigna was scarcely convalescent when her uncles, John and Edmund, with her eldest cousin, George, arrived to see her. They were all so changed, she would not have known them. The two latter only remained a short time; but her uncle John had come with the intention of staying in the Settlement through the winter, and in the spring to start from thence, with two of his nephews, to the farm held by the family in the Genesee country. 
                  In fact, their present location proved so very unhealthy, that the sooner the family could leave it the better. And besides, since the death of their sister Annie, who was a general favorite with them all, the place had become perfectly hateful to her brothers, more especially to her brother John, who had now left it with the determination of never seeing it again. 
                  The first wish of all the family was to return to their former residence in the Wyoming Valley; but that district of country being still very unsettled and disturbed, they feared venturing it. Hence their present arrangement. 
                  Much to the delight of both uncle and niece, Mother Neisser could accommodate Mr. Waldemar in her house. He arrived just, before Christmas, and remained until the beginning of April-a halcyon period of bliss to Benigna-one of the happiest spaces of time she ever experienced. Thus another portion of sweetness was added to the mingled cup of the young orphan. 
                  And it was doubtless by the ordering of a kind Providence that her uncle arrived just when he did-at the moment when the child required many little delicacies, which the poverty of the Neissers, or other circumstances, rendered it difficult for them to procure; besides, it relieved Benigna's sensitive nature from the feeling of pecuniary obligations to her adopted parents, which she knew they could ill afford. 
                  Uncle John, who was a first-rate sportsman, brought her every variety of bird that could then be found in the neighborhood, while he supplied the whole Settlement with game of every kind. Indeed, uncle John was, for the time being, a very important personage in that community-for none could so handle the rifle-while besides, he had the best luck in fishing, and was, withal, so good-natured, kind, and obliging. 
                  But the wheels of time will roll over and produce their own wondrous changes, though we would sometimes fain stay their revolutions if we could; and thus, regardless of the wishes of Benigna Waldemar, it brought the period for the termination of her delightful intercourse with this beloved relative. 
                  In the very commencement of the month of April, her cousins George and Josey, with their father, Mr. Joseph Waldemar, arrived at the Settlement. It was now nearly four years since Benigna had seen so many of her kindred at one time-it made her very happy; they remained only until the next day, when uncle John also left. His going rendered Benigna very unhappy for a season. 
                  The next event I shall mention is the marriage of Frauchie Miller, who, as well as her sister Veronie, were good-looking, pleasant, and sensible Sisters; the one twenty-three, and the other twenty years of age, daughters of one of their missionaries. Sister Frauchie married a widower with several children. Her husband was a farmer belonging to the Society, and lived about a quarter of a mile out of the Settlement. She had been intimate with his deceased wife; so his family, as well as himself, were well acquainted with her. He was an estimable man, and a good match for her. 
                  This marriage had one circumstance attending it different from any that preceded it, they being the first couple in the place who went upon a wedding-trip. 
                   
                  The fact was, the farmer owned a stage, which he kept for the convenience of the people in the place, as well as for his own especial profit-being the vehicle used by Bishop Steinberg and his party when Elsie Ashley first made their acquaintance near the banks of the Susquehanna about six years before. It was a clumsy and heavily-built affair; yet, nevertheless, it served its purpose well, and never better than when it wheeled off with its proprietor and his fair young bride. 
                  Just previous to the above event, Elsie Ashley received another letter from her relatives in New York, written in great depression of spirits. They did not believe the account last received from Captain Vincent, because the other sad rumor had again been told them, and in such a manner as they supposed to be the most reliable information. 
                  The frail fabric of blissful anticipations now fell; and hope perished from the heart of Elsie Ashley concerning the fate of her beloved Edward. Then fain would she immediately have gone to her aunt and cousin, to sorrow with them over their mutual bereavement; but the state of the country rendered it as impracticable as ever for her to go thither alone. Hence she deemed it advisable to stay where she was; but again abandoned herself to her grief, and refused to be comforted. 
                  In this season of despondency, Elsie admitted no one to see her except Benigna; she was her sole companion, but not as before did she receive her attentions; she was experiencing that desolation of the heart when nothing less than the compassionate companionship of some one who had passed through a similar ordeal of suffering will suffice to comfort and console. She longed for such a friend to sympathize with her, and to calm her wounded and agitated soul. But this paroxysm of agony ceased; and then she looked down at the anxious and loving countenance of Benigna, then reading aloud some of the precious promises of Holy Writ; and as she listened, she became more tranquil. 
                  The impressions and resolutions made in her sick-room were not forgotten by the child, and her first act on her recovery was to present herself to her elderess for confirmation. This rite is usually solemnized among the Moravians in the last week of the, Passion season, which occurred within ten days after the departure of her relatives. 
                  And hers was no formal faith, but a beautiful exemplification of early piety-a fair and lovely personification of those Christian graces which should ever adorn a child of God, an inheritor of the kingdom of heaven. 
                  Elsie listened to her pious conversation with profit, interest, and attention. It was at this period she greatly progressed in spiritual attainments; and, while thus secluded from all other association, she resolved upon being a Moravian. And when Benigna, scarcely twelve years of age, came forward to take upon herself the Christian profession, by her side knelt her dearest friend, her beloved Elsie. She joined the Society at the same time, and immediately adopted the peculiar style of dress of the single Sisterhood, Then, feeling that none could ever fill the place in her affections so long cherished for her beloved Edward, she secretly determined upon a life of single blessedness. 
                  Yet she lived not in the Sisters' House, but continued to sojourn with the Neissers; and the hearts of Elsie Ashley and Benigna Waldemar grew now close together-the mystic bond of one faith, and a fellowship of feeling, cementing their strong affection. 
                
                
                  CHAPTER XXIII. 
                  IT was early in the summer of the same year, 1781, that a missionary party arrived at this Settlement from one of the West India islands. The greater number of them consisted of a family of five, namely, a father, mother, with their three children; besides these, were two other children belonging to another missionary Brother, then recently widowed. 
                  All these children were brought to this place to be placed in the care of the Society; to be maintained and educated by them, according to an established custom of the Community. 
                   
                  The whole company, for a few days, lodged together at the Neissers', when they divided; the two half-orphans being else where accommodated. 
                  All of the children were very young-not any of them being over six years of age. Those belonging to the missionary pair were six, four, and two; the others, six and three years old. The parents of the former were both in delicate health-the effect of the: climate and repeated attacks of yellow and other fevers. The mother particularly so-she appeared consumptive. This lady was rather interesting in appearance, and very pleasing in her manners. She was a native of the Emerald Isle, and possessed all the strong sensibilities of affection for her family so characteristic of that people. Indeed, she loved her children with passionate fondness. Yet she was very devoted to her calling-sensitively anxious to discharge her duty faithfully both to her husband and to the Church in whose service they were mutually engaged. 
                  The pair remained in the Settlement for several months, the family in the meanwhile keeping together. During this interval, the poor mother at times suffered intensely, in anticipation of her coming trial, when she would be separated from her little ones, and return to the West Indies without these treasured objects of her love. 
                  They were all inexpressibly dear to her; but her youngest born, from its tender age and delicate constitution, seemed more closely bound to that fond mother's heart than the others. "My Annie and Katie are both dear, very dear to me, and God knows how lard it will be for me to part with them. But Crissie, my darling, it will surely break my heart to leave you." 
                  On saying this, the distressed mother burst into an agony of tears. "And she will forget me too-the mother who loves her so much." And thus she repeatedly wailed forth-and more and more frequently as the dreaded moment neared, when this painful separation was to take place; and she refused to be comforted, because of the reason of her grief. 
                  Yet during all this interval, yea from the moment Benigna Waldemar understood why the dear lady was so unhappy, did she, with her winning, affectionate manner, strive to chase away that dark cloud from her heart. 
                  Indeed, it seemed to be the lot of the young orphan ever to have her tender feelings upon the rack, either for herself or others. Her susceptible and sympathetic nature, as it found occasion, seemed ever ready to compassionate those who were suffering trials, or were in sorrow. 
                  And at this period she had enough of this kind of painful excitement, for Father Neisser's condition was getting rather worse, the mother becoming more infirm, while the pale and sad countenance of her friend Elsie told that the canker-worm of grief still preyed upon her. But this sweet spirit of consolation hovered about them all-speaking, in soothing tones to one, mingling her tears with another, or performing some office of ministering kindness. 
                  She gave a ready ear to the suffering mother; gently sympathized with her; then told her of the sorrow which had gathered around her own cradle; afterwards of her other early bereavements, her lonely condition, the desolation of heart she ever since frequently experienced, and which she feared she would always feel. 
                  "But yet," continued Benigna, "the Lord is very good to me; he takes such kind care of me; and he will do the same to your dear children, I believe." 
                  "But if my children should forget me-their own, fond mother!" 
                  "They shall not, I promise you, if I can help it; I will talk very often a great deal about you, you may rely upon that." 
                  "And even should I die you must continue to do so." 
                  "I will! I certainly will!" 
                  "Oh! how dearly I love you, for saying this! "she answered. "And now make me another promise, I beg of you, and I will pray to our Lord to bless you for it. I am not to live long; yes, I am sure I shall soon die! I have a presentiment of this: that when I part with my dear children I shall see them no more in the flesh. But listen to me, dear Benigna; child as you are, you are a woman in feeling. Give heed to what I now say:-Whenever the moment comes that I am called hence, you will know it, for my Saviour, surely, will grant my last earthly wish to see and bless my little ones; as my spirit wings its way heavenward, it will be permitted to come and see my children-would I could then bear my Crissie away with me. But be that as it may, from that moment think more of my children-watch over them more than ever, befriend and love them more from that time-if riot for their own sake, for their mother's, who asks you. You will promise me this-won't you, my dear?" 
                  "I will love them dearly, whether you live or die. Indeed I love them very much already," answered Benigna, greatly excited, and almost terrified by this conversation. 
                  The poor mother seemed both relieved and satisfied. This unburdening her heart of its load of maternal anxieties and fears had a composing and tranquillizing effect. 
                  Only a day or two subsequent to this conversation, in the evening, the poor lady bent weeping over the forms of her sleeping children. She had come to take her last farewell of them. Then, while the gathered tears dropped upon the faces of her unconscious darlings, Benigna Waldemar stole softly in, wound her arm gently around the neck of the distressed mother, and in that loving embrace, and with tears pouring down her own cheeks, sobbed forth a reiteration of her promised pledge. Then again she reminded that sorrowing parent of the love and goodness of God-of his beneficent and providential care. As she spoke her sweet countenance glowed with the hopes her trusting faith inspired. The effect was electrical. 
                  "True! true;" said the mourner, "and I will give these, my most precious gems, into His holy keeping! He will preserve them safe from all harm, and I trust restore them to me in His heavenly kingdom." 
                  He who had permitted this trial to that fond missionary mother, was now strengthening her to bear it. Kneeling down by the couch of the sleepers, her husband beside her, she breathed a fervent prayer in their behalf; then, she stooped over them and imprinted upon each little rosy mouth their mother's last kiss. The cloud then gathered again over her heart-for a brief space she gave way to strong emotions; afterward, though the tear of affection still trembled in her eye, she could leave that room and the house with comparative composure. 
                  Some weeks had passed since this missionary pair had sailed from Philadelphia for their home in the West Indies. In the meanwhile, the children were becoming thoroughly domesticated with the Neissers, where they were to remain until old enough to enter the Unity's school in the place-Benigna Waldemar faithfully caring for them wherever she could, as well as her youthful inexperience suggested, and according to the directions given her. 
                  None of them were very robust; but little Crissie was the most delicate, and this continued very perceptibly to increase after the departure of her parents. The people generally thought her too young, at just three years of age, to feel this deprivation deeply for any length of time; yet she evidently pined considerably for her mother, and seemed discontented with her present situation. But she was naturally timid, reserved, shy, and very thoughtful; and such dispositions generally suffer most when among strangers. 
                  At length, one day, the little child appeared unusually abstracted and unhappy. She cried a great deal, and could not be induced to play with her sisters, or to be amused with her playthings, but instead, would ever and anon sob out: "Mamma, poor, dear mamma!" and refuse to be comforted. This mood continued, I do not know how long; but some nights after, she screamed out in her sleep: 
                  "Mamma! Oh, mamma! Annie! Katie! see, here is dear mamma come back again!" 
                  Her sisters by this time were both awake. Annie exclaimed: "Where is mamma, Crissie? I don't see her." 
                  "There! there she is!"-starting up and pointing in a certain tain direction-"just there; don't you see her? dressed in a beautiful white frock; and she is very white, too, and so pretty; dear mamma!" 
                  "I can't see her yet!" exclaimed Annie. 
                  "But I do!" said Katie; "there she is, coming quite close to Crissie!" 
                  "Oh, yes! I believe now, I see her, too!" said Annie; "but she looks very sick-see, she smiles at us. Oh, mamma! dear mamma! do come and stay with us a great while!" 
                  Benigna, who slept in the same room with the children, and had not been asleep, heard the whole of this strange circumstance. It affected her very peculiarly; for immediately she remembered what the mother bad said with regard to seeing her children in the event of her death: she became excessively agitated. Just then, Elsie and Sister Winny entered the room. 
                  "What is the matter here?" inquired the former. 
                  "I have all the pretty things you bought me, yet!" said Crissie, "and I will get them to-morrow to show them to you. Oh, mamma! dear mamma! how glad I am that you are come back again!" 
                  "You are dreaming, dear child," said Elsie; "your dear mamma is not here, but is gone back to the West Indies." 
                  "But she is! and Annie and Katie have seen her too!" 
                  "But where do you see her?" inquired Benigna. 
                  "She was there-close by me just now-but I don't see her any more," said the child, in a distressed tone; "but won't you find her for me?" 
                  "Why, what is the meaning of all this disturbance?" inquired Mother Neisser, as she groped her way into the room. 
                  "Nothing; but the children are seeing their mother's wraith, I am thinking," replied Sister Winny. 
                  "You will try to find her for me, won't you?" again asked the child. 
                  "My dear little Crissie, you are mistaken, believe me; your mamma is not here, I assure you; come, go to sleep, and then, perhaps, you will see her again." 
                  Elsie hereupon took the little girl in her arms, laid her on the bed beside Benigna; she immediately nestled close to her, shut her eyes, and went to sleep. 
                  Early the next morning Crissie was up; had awakened her sisters and Benigna, hurried to be dressed, then ran into the room formerly occupied by her parents, with the expectation of finding them there. Her sisters were both of the same impression; and when they found no beloved mamma there to welcome them, the trio cried as if their little hearts would break. Presently, the two elder girls were deeply engaged. 
                  "What are you doing, my children?" inquired Mother Neisser. 
                  "Playing funeral, as we have them in the West Indies. We are going to bury a big person first-then a little one." 
                  Benigna, as she heard this, turned pale and trembled. She looked up and saw Elsie approaching. She immediately directed the attention of her friend to the children. 
                  "That is not a pretty kind of play," said Elsie. Here are your blocks and your dolls; come, let me make a house for your babies, and then we will put them in." 
                  Accordingly, she arranged the building; the children seemed interested, but still each of their young faces looked sad. They soon tired of this; in a little while the house was pulled down, one of the dolls dressed in a long white slip, then placed on one of the narrowest blocks, and slowly borne along to represent a funeral, the two older girls, in the meanwhile, humming out some funereal ditty. 
                  "Don't you think this is altogether very strange?" inquired Elsie of Mother Neisser. 
                  "I do, indeed," said the old lady;" "and it makes me firmly believe their poor mother has entered her rest, and that she went last night; besides, I am persuaded in my mind, as she was leaving this world, the Lord granted her desire to see her children once more." Then, turning to Benigna, she asked, "Did you mark the time last night, my child, when Crissie said she saw her mother?" 
                  "Not exactly, but nearly so;" she replied. 
                   
                  "Then carefully note it down; and, besides, remember the day of the month. I shall tell it to some of our people for I cannot but think the whole circumstance so very strange indeed!" 
                  And she mentioned it to Sister Rosalie, and several others, that very day. 
                  But the most extraordinary part of this singular occurrence remains to be told The same evening little Crissie became suddenly all, and before morning died; about thirty hours after her vision-dream. 
                  The dear little girl was immediately impressed with the idea that she would not recover. She told Benigna and her sisters sue bad to go, because her mamma could not come back again and wanted her with her. 
                  She breathed her last in the arms of Benigna, who now, for the second time in her brief existence, came in such close contact with the grim messenger; the first with a saint (her grandmother) and now with this little angel. The idea to this heavenly-minded girl was both. beautiful and pleasant. 
                  About six weeks intervened after the death of little Crissie when information was received at the Settlement that the vessel in which the parents of the children embarked had been so unfortunate as to fall into the hands of privateers, who after capturing and plundering Her of her cargo, and nearly the whole of her provisions, together with every thing else valuable which they could find, abandoned her with her crew and passengers to their fate. That after suffering the deprivation of every comfort, and being nearly starved to death, they were discovered by a large well-armed merchant ship, and by them safely taken to the island of Jamaica. And further, that, ere that friendly bark reached there, the missionary saw his wife perish before his eyes. She fell a victim to those merciless pirates-for her constitution was already too much shattered to bear such hard usage; and she died, literally, for want of proper nourishment, and the absence of necessary comforts. 
                  She was very happy in the prospect of death; her last words, I have heard, and as near as I can recollect them, were these-she had been speaking of her children: 
                  "It is all right, and I feel it now, that I left them all behind; and I thank the Lord that he so ordered it." Her lips then moved for a few moments in inaudible prayer. Afterwards, raising her feeble voice, she exclaimed: "Oh! how good the Lord is! I see them again-all of my dear children-and my Crissie and I shall be together, to part no more!" An unearthly smile passed over her pallid features, a few respirations followed, and her soul had departed. She died at night of that same day of the month, and as near as could be ascertained, within the same hour her children saw her; the precise time being never known, because her husband did not note it. 
                  Yet, with regard to all the other circumstances of the case, there was such a remarkable coincidence, that no marvel if, in consequence, many of the good people of the place were inclined to believe the spirit yearnings of that mother were gratified; and, as it quitted its frail earthly tenement, it winged its way over the blue waters-next athwart the land, until it reached those powerful magnates, her beloved children-where earth-born feeling attracted it downwards-there it lingered long enough to manifest itself to them; that she tarried just sufficient space to see death place its icy seal upon her darling Crissie-then smilingly resigned herself entirely to the fell destroyer. 
                  Reader! the above is a singular narration of circumstances that are said actually to have occurred, only a little later than the time I have mentioned. It is among the recollections of my childhood; and when first narrated to me, one of the children of this missionary still survived, and may yet live, for aught I know to the contrary. 
                
                
                  CHAPTER XXIV. 
                  ABOUT a month previous to the termination of the preceding history, namely the death of little Crissie, Benigna Waldemar's uncles, aunt, and cousins made her a hasty visit on their way to the Genesee country, where the majority of the family at least intended in the future to reside. 
                  Uncle John had put up a block house for their accommodation; besides, he and his nephews had farmed so industriously and successfully, as to insure an abundant supply of provisions and necessary comforts for the winter. 
                  The family were all more or less broken down by ill-health, but seemed very glad to make this change in their place of abode. 
                  They came in a large baggage wagon-the best method in those days of moving a numerous family. 
                  Mr. Joseph Waldemar, at this period, was the father of eight children; hence Benigna had to be introduced to three new cousins, Ellinor, Nugent, and Annie, all born since her separation from the family-the last an infant, only two months old; but she had scarcely time to form any acquaintance with these little strangers, or even to talk to the others, on account of the shortness of their stay. 
                  The uncles told their niece, that none of the family purposed returning to Pennsylvania until peace was established in the country, when probably she would soon see one or more of them. 
                  It was now nearly six months since Elsie Ashley joined the Moravian Society-had become a member of their Church; and it was five years since she came there as a place of refuge from the horrors of civil war. 
                  It had been a very momentous period of her life-fraught with various strange vicissitudes; yet there were many fond associations connected therewith, which she felt indelibly impressed upon her young mind. 
                  During this interval of time, how changed had become the aspect of her life's future picture! how blighted were its brightest promises of happiness! how withered were all her dearest hopes! And on glancing within her inner self, in the recesses of her heart's deepest chambers, how different were its feelings-its promptings-its purposes of action. 
                   
                  In truth, a great revolution took place in her mind within this period. She had learnt much, and suffered considerably; and neither in vain; for both were acquired under the hardest of teachers-experience and necessity. Elsie had profited by their lessons, and become resigned to her destiny; besides deriving benefit to her own soul by her trials and disappointments. 
                  But another great and important change had come upon Elsie which, though almost unconscious to herself, was materially altering her disposition and character. This was produced altogether by her frequent intercourse with Rosalie Steinberg, added to the fact of all her other associations being entirely with the Moravian people. She was assimilating more and more to them. Rosalie and she continued to be very intimate; and perhaps she, more than any other person, stamped the principles of pure Moravianism upon her mind, and attached her to its peculiarities; but the example of the gentle and pious Benigna acted more upon her heart, and established her Christian character. 
                  Elsie had written to her aunt and cousin Kate immediately upon her admission into the Church, when, after stating the circumstance, she expressed her intention to continue in the Settlement until the termination of the war, and then return to them, perhaps to remain permanently. 
                  And because nothing farther had been heard of her uncle and cousins, doubt settled into certainty as to their real fate. And as she wept over the remembrance of her beloved Edward, she renewed her secret vow, to allow no other earthly love to claim the affections so long given to Mm; and consequently, that she would persevere in her resolution ever to remain single. But she was not destined to travel life's pilgrimage alone; nor was the horizon of her hopes to be forever clouded-the rainbow promises of her youthful dreams were to be realized. Yes, the sunbeams of love and happiness were again to scatter their blessings upon the pathway of Elsie Ashley. 
                  At the period of which I am now writing, a young man, strangely attired, was seen perambulating the town, the singularity of whose appearance attracted much attention. His dress resembled an Indian hunter's of those days. He walked through the principal street with a disturbed air, while, ever and anon, he would stop and anxiously look into the windows of the houses he passed; and then, heaving a deep sigh, again he pursued his way. By and by he encountered several men; of them he made some inquiry; they pointed to a particular dwelling, to which the young man immediately sped with eager steps. 
                  At length he paused before the residence of the Neissers, where he rapped at the door. Yet ere this last act was done, Benigna had noticed him-she believed him to be an Indian, and calling Elsie, directly brought her to the window to see him. She cast but one glance at the stranger-it was sufficient-she could not be mistaken; and rushing wildly forward, in a moment more found herself in the arms of her cousin. 
                  Yes, her dear Edward still lived, and, in truth, his own dear self now so fondly clasped her in that loving embrace. And his brother, too, was alive; but not so their beloved father-he being the lone captive of whose death Captain Vincent informed Elsie. The savages had cruelly murdered him some months before, while attempting to escape. Edward and his brother would probably have shared the same fate had they been near; but providentially, at the time, were separated from him at some distance, with some of the more peaceable of their tribe. 
                  Both Edward and his brother had only recently made good their flight from the Indians. They effected it through the management of one of their former female domestics. This woman had married an Indian, over whom she obtained considerable influence, and she ceased not to exercise it in behalf of her master's sons until she saw them liberated from their captivity. The two brothers had travelled in company until the day before, when they parted-Robert, to go to his mother, and Edward, to seek Elsie. 
                  The cousin-lovers found each other materially changed in outward appearance, but with unaltered feelings of reciprocated affection. It was about four, years since their last meeting. They had mutually suffered in their separation; but so happy were they now, that each individual moment sufficed, in its fulness of felicity, to atone for all their past sorrows and grievous disappointments. Anxious to see the other members of his dear family, Edward urged an almost immediate departure, and it will readily be believed he had not much difficulty to persuade his cousin to accompany him to their mutual friends and relations. 
                  But Elsie now found herself placed in rather an unpleasant quandary; for, as she had become a Moravian, it was her duty either to resign Edward or to give up her church membership. And did she hesitate? My answer is, No, not for a moment. She immediately determined upon what course she ought to pursue. She had joined the Society when under the impression of Edward's death-and in that case had resolved never to marry at all. 
                  Nor was Elsie as yet a convert to the Moravian system of forming marriages; besides, the whole circumstances of the case were such, she believed, as fully to justify her in following the dictates of her own pure heart. Satisfied with the rectitude of her resolves, and bearing a countenance radiant with affectionate emotion, she placed her hand into that of her beloved Edward, in the presence of Bishop Steinberg and Rosalie, as she said: 
                  "Though heaven claims all my best affections, I cannot resign this, my fondest earthly blessing-nor do I believe God requires it of me." 
                  "The matter rests entirely with you, my sister; your own heart must decide this question," replied the Bishop. 
                  "It has decided," replied the happy girl; "and my duty to this, my plighted husband, is to tread life's rugged road with him, as the sharer of his pleasures and the soother of his troubles. Blame me not, therefore, if I marry him! Yet dear, very dear, to my heart, will ever be the recollection of my sojourn in this place, and of the kindly friendships I have here made!" 
                  "But, nevertheless, in spirit you will ever remain our sister," said the Bishop, "and hold a place in our affectionate remembrance." 
                   
                  "Then, ere we go, allow me to crave, as a precious boon, that you bestow upon us both your paternal benediction." 
                  "Most willingly!" replied the venerable man. 
                  Hereupon they knelt down-these recently united lovers, beside each other-while Bishop Steinberg, in fervent and impressive tones, first prayed for their mutual happiness, then gave them his fatherly blessing. 
                  Then Rosalie and Elsie parted, with the promise of frequent correspondence with each other. 
                  Last of all, Elsie bade farewell to Benigna-now the brightest link of interest and love connecting her with this little Settlement of Moravians. The companionship between these two orphans had been so tender-so replete with interest-and such a source of mutual happiness, that its severance could not but be deeply felt by both of them. Their sad adieu over, the impatient Edward hurried Elsie onward; and soon they were wending their way to New York, where they arrived in the course of two or three days. 
                  The warm greeting which welcomed their arrival, and the bliss of that happy family reunion, are far easier to be imagined than described; though that happiness was dampened by the absence of the loved husband and father, and the recollection of the shocking termination of his valuable life. 
                  In this affectionate home we now leave Elsie Ashley for the present, grateful and contented in the felicity of her heart, and with nought but delightful anticipations in the prospective of her existence. 
                
                
                  CHAPTER XXV. 
                  AND now retrace we our steps to that Moravian Settlement, to note the events which subsequently happened there. 
                  To begin with our favorite, Benigna Waldemar. The departure of Elsie Ashley proved a great deprivation to her, as, in consequence, she became more lonely and isolated than ever before. And she felt it greater, because she had not obtained a substitute-not any one with kindred sensibilities, for the orphan to rest upon with the same confiding affection as she used to, in this beloved friend of her heart. In fact, there was not an individual now remaining in the Settlement except Rosalie Steinberg, who really understood her character, though so pure and transparent, so free from guile and artifice of every kind-none besides, who had looked down in the depths of her nature, learned to appreciate her rare excellence of disposition, and to be bound to her by any particular feeling of interest; and she, from her age and position, and occupying the relation she did to Benigna, inspired too much reverence and respect to allow the silken cords of intimate companionship ever to form between them. 
                  They who have followed the history of this lovely girl ever since she came to the Settlement, will perceive that it always was her lot to have scarcely any associates of her own age. She had spent most of her time with much older people than herself; the majority of whom, it must be confessed, though good and kind in their way, and personally friendly to her, possessed little congeniality of disposition, similarity of feeling, and kindred sensibilities. 
                  But her friend Elsie had well supplied this deprivation, by her affectionate and considerate kindness, her judicious care and attention. She accommodated herself in many respects to her juvenile associate; had, when necessary, brought down her own fine mind to the level of Benigna's; was her playmate and companion, as well as her instructress and friend. Hence she felt her absence more keenly than she otherwise would have done. 
                  Besides, Benigna had arrived at the age when the loss of just such a companion could not but be most sensibly felt. She was coming to that interesting period of girlhood, when the force of companionship tells much stronger upon the character than at any other time; when the heart of a young, sensitive, and ardent-natured female is most apt to depend upon friendship for its greatest solace and support. 
                   
                  Benigna felt these cravings-the yearnings of her spirit for communion with its fellow. As I have mentioned, she possessed naturally a remarkably delicate and finely constituted mind, sensitive in the highest degree; while her affections were strong and deep, sincere and permanent. 
                  The peculiar discipline to which the young orphan was subjected the last four years and more, had only modified these beautiful lineaments of her character. Her pious teachers and superiors had successfully directed them heavenward; yet she was an earth-born creature, and nature would assert its right. It earnestly desired communion and sympathy of soul for this fond, loving, and confiding being. 
                  Yet, from all the common springs of happiness which usually gild the steps of childhood to womanhood, she was in a great measure debarred; and instead, her young life, it will be seen, experienced an accumulation of sorrows, difficulties, and troubles, which but for her fervent piety and gentle virtues, would probably have crushed to the earth this fair blossom of human mould. 
                  Indeed, the farewell tears of Benigna on account of the departure of her friend Elsie, were scarcely dry upon her cheek when this night-cloud of trials and afflictive dispensations began to descend upon her devoted head. 
                  First-Father Neisser died. This event, though really a relief to the dear girl, was a calamity to her, since she had become tenderly attached to the old gentleman. Then a great change took place in the domestic arrangements of the family-Mother Neisser directly thereupon selling her house and shop, together with part of her furniture, and moving into the Widows' House. She took Benigna with her. 
                  The young orphan, at the same time, was offered a home among the Sisterhood, although she did not as yet belong to their band; this Institution receiving unmarried females even younger than at her age. 
                  The poor girl was now compelled to earn her own livelihood, Mother Neisser being no longer able to support the twain. Indeed deed, her means were inadequate for her own necessities; and it will be seen that Benigna, though so young, had to exert herself for both, to provide comforts for her surviving adopted parent. 
                  Being too young to be employed as a teacher, and as she was an excellent seamstress, remarkably neat and quick, besides having considerable taste and skill for various kinds of fancy needlework, it was proposed that, for the present, this should be her mode of obtaining her living. 
                  In fact, the old lady had been obliged, during the last two years, in consequence of her pecuniary embarrassments, to borrow so much money upon her property, that, after the expenses of her husband's funeral were paid, she had only five hundred dollars left. The interest, of course, on this small amount would in no way support her, especially as it only yielded four per cent. Besides this, however, her widowed condition entitled her from a Tontine in the Society to a life annuity of twelve dollars; and, added to this, she had sixteen more coming from another source, owing to a peculiar arrangement then common in the Society with persons of small means-of giving them double interest on a certain sum for life, on condition of the whole principal of that amount afterwards becoming the property of the Society. Thus two hundred dollars would entitle an individual to eight per cent, instead of four-and this would be continued as long as the person lived, be the number of years many or few. 
                  Two hundred and fifty dollars were still due upon the house; but this belonged to Benigna, Father Neisser having bequeathed it to her. She could not, however, receive the principal in five years or more; only the interest, which was ten dollars annually. This sum, together with the interest on Benigna's former little capital of twenty pounds and three guineas, made their joint income a trifle more than sixty dollars. 
                  As, with the strictest economy, a lone female in either the Sisters' or Widows' House could manage to live at about seventy dollars a year, and sometimes even less, if she took her turn in attending to some of the domestic duties of the Establishment, and entirely waited upon herself, hence, had the good mother been capable of rendering these services, with the addition of doing some spinning, or other easy kind of employment, the whole of this small income might have sufficed to afford her a comfortable subsistence. But, unfortunately, Mother Neisser was now blind and almost helpless. 
                  Benigna cheerfully gave up her little annuity, besides promising to do all in her power to contribute towards supplying this deficiency, in addition to providing for herself; and, with the sanguine feelings of inexperienced youth, fancied she could easily do so. But her young fingers would have to work early and late, and with the least possible interruption. 
                  To accomplish this, it was deemed best that she should, during the day, be in the Sisters' House. Everything was arranged accordingly; and as the two buildings were almost contiguous to each other, it was hoped that there would be no difficulty with Mother Neisser upon the subject. 
                  But the good people were mistaken. The old lady was deaf to all their representations about such an arrangement. She would not hear of it at all, no matter what were the consequences; nor could her mind be at all calmed, until the sweet girl had thrown her arms around her neck, wiped the tears from her sightless eyes, kissed her again and again, and promised never to leave her. 
                  And she did stay entirely with the old lady, notwithstanding the many trials and sufferings it brought upon her. And thus we leave her for the present. 
                  The next occurrence in the place affecting any of the characters in my story, was the call and acceptance of Sister Rosalie to fill the situation of a teacher in the Unity's Female Boarding School, at Salem, in North Carolina; and soon after she took her departure for that place. 
                  Just previous to this event, Louisa Moehring, with her husband and two little boys, twins, returned from the West Indies-Eugene being in a lingering consumption, of which he soon afterwards died. 
                  About the same time, another missionary Brother came to the Settlement, to be provided with a wife from among the Sisterhood. This poor dear Brother was subject to epileptic fits, and besides had but one eye; these infirmities proved no obstacles in the way of his wishes; for the very first Sister who was drawn for him, Annie Caritas Knause, without any hesitation, consented to the proposition; yea, cheerfully accepted him as her destiny. 
                  So Sister Rosalie wrote to her friend Elsie Walton; and, at the same time, she mentioned that their Sister Wilhelmina was fulfilling her predictions, in being a very happy and contented wife. The warden made her an excellent husband, and they were now the parents of one child, a sweet little girl. 
                  And in speaking of Louisa Moehring, Sister Rosalie observed, that the wedded life of the poor thing proved as sad as it was unfortunate-because her husband had always been ailing, and she could not but think it a pity this couple had ever married. 
                  A little after the departure of his daughter to the South, Bishop Steinberg went on a visitation to some of the missionary stations of the Society in this country. His wife, who was in feeble health, did not long survive his absence; her death was sudden, and just then unexpected. 
                  But I am, as is my wont, again anticipating in my story. I leave, however, retrogression to my next chapter. 
                
                
                  CHAPTER XXVI. 
                  WE return, in our narration, to the spring of the same year, 1782. The whole Moravian Society, at this period, were deeply agitated by the news of a dreadful massacre which was perpetrated among their Indian converts on the banks of the Muskingum, and as some of the Victims, as well as their missionaries, formerly resided in this Settlement, the people in the place generally, more particularly sympathized with the sufferers. We will, therefore, give a brief narration of this dreadful tragedy. 
                   
                  The Moravian Brethren, about ten years previous, had been compelled, through the treachery of some of their savage foes, to abandon a flourishing missionary settlement located upon the Susquehannah. They hereupon, with the whole of their Indian flock, numbering in all rather more than one hundred and forty persons, emigrated to Ohio, to occupy a considerable district of country previously allotted to them by the Council of the Delaware tribe, for missionary purposes; that it should belong exclusively to the Christian Indians, and no others to be permitted to settle upon it; besides, the condition was annexed, that all Indians dwelling on its borders should be directed to behave peaceably to the missionaries and their converts, and neither disturb their worship nor prevent any from attending the preaching of the gospel. 
                  On this land these people presently planted three Settlements. The location was thought to be a favorable one for the missionaries to extend their sphere of labor among our aborigines, since, in every direction, around them were scattered portions of their tribes. 
                  Hence, although the prospect in almost every other respect was very discouraging, and the situation of the missionaries generally attended with the greatest privations, toils, and dangers, even at the peril of life, yet dauntlessly these heroic servants of their Lord indefatigably and faithfully persevered, with the most devoted zeal, in prosecuting their self-denying labor of love and duty to those perishing heathen. 
                  Scarcely, however, had they pitched their habitation in this moral waste, ere they began to be persecuted, not only by their savage neighbors, but by their more cruel foes, the white people, who, as a pretext for their conduct, represented the whole of the Indian tribes in North America to be the Canaanites, and, like them, should be extirpated from the face of the earth. 
                  Unfortunately, at this period much bad feeling existed among the North American Indians; some of whom were extremely hostile to the Christian Indians, not only on account of their forsaking heathenism, but because they would not take any part in the Revolutionary war. They had remained perfectly neutral, by the advice of their missionaries, who inculcated the doctrine of living peaceably and quietly with every one. 
                  But this the Indians found impossible; and the more forbearance they exercised, the worse they were treated. At length they were forced to quit their beautiful Settlements, just as they were gathering in the ripened corn, their potatoes and other vegetables, their garden stuffs, the fruits of their industry and toil. They had to leave all these behind. 
                  They were driven forth like the deer of their own native forests, and were escorted by a troop of savages, commanded by English officers. For four weeks they kept them, journeying about one hundred and twenty-five miles, then abandoned the whole party to their fate, in a country where there was neither game nor any other kind of provisions. Here they were soon in danger of starving; and, compelled by hunger, a number of them resolved to return to their Settlements, in order to gather and secure a quantity of corn. 
                  These poor wanderers encamped at, or near their former beloved home. They pitched upon a spot where, directly upon their Arrival, all unitedly, industriously worked, day and night, in gathering and husking their corn, afterwards putting it in a place of security. The whole undertaking was accomplished, their task completed without experiencing either interruption or molestation, and with lightened hearts they were about returning to their families, when a band of between one and two hundred white men suddenly appeared in their midst. 
                  They were all Americans; and the Indians supposed they had nothing to fear from them, hence were not at all alarmed. These people professed to be their friends, and under this guise persuaded, the poor unsuspecting creatures to deliver to their keeping their knives, with every other defensive weapon which they had about them; promising if they did so, to take them safely out of the reach of danger from their enemies-afterwards abundantly providing all of them with food, and whatever else they needed. 
                   
                  The Indians at first hesitated to accede to such a proposition; yet these people soon succeeded in gaining their confidence by their kindness of manner and apparent sincerity; and they more readily gave it, because some of these pretended friends seemed to be pious. However, as soon as they had accomplished their object of getting their victims completely in their power, they appeared in their true characters, as a set of atrociously villainous miscreants, incarnations of wickedness, willing vassals of their master, the Prince of Evil: they then told these unfortunates they meant to kill them. 
                  In vain they pleaded for their lives, for their murderers were determined upon their destruction-the horses, with the other property about them, being of sufficient value to seal their doom. And added to these were the rich, fertile, and beautiful lands owned by these Indians-lands of which these wretches coveted the possession, and believed they might be able to obtain if they destroyed them. 
                  Hence they continued to turn a deaf ear to their earnest entreaties of not killing them. They were impatient, and wished to commence their diabolical work immediately, but at length were prevailed upon to spare them until the morrow. 
                  My pen almost refuses to write the consummation of this bloody deed; especially as busy memory, in connection therewith, conjures up the sdays of my babyhood and early childhood; for I was born among these poor Indians, and near the very spot where these fiends in human form slaughtered so many of the missionary fold; and many tales of thrilling interest relating to that horrible event, though it occurred so many years before, are among the strongest of my earliest recollections. 
                  But from this digression I turn to finish this painful history. I have said that their merciless murderers granted them the favor of living until the next day. Then this horrible wholesale murder was perpetrated. They took these poor, innocent people, men, women, and children, bound them with ropes, two and two together; then they led them into a couple of houses, which their executioners called slaughter-houses, where they scalped and murdered dered them. Ninety-six persons were thus cruelly put to death. 
                  But the faith of these devoted people was strongly manifested as they neared the moment of their destruction. It triumphed over the agony of their frightful doom. Sweetly they sang praises to God their Saviour, rejoicing in the hope of a blissful reunion in heaven. And their voices, as their spirits joined them when they took their flight heavenward, travelled through the regions of space-visited the Moravian Settlement of my story-floated awhile over it, blending their notes of harmony in an unearthly song of blissful rejoicing at their eternal escape from their inhuman foes. 
                  So says the legend connected with this bloody catastrophe; besides, that a number of the inhabitants of the place, as they listened to the wondrous strains of these slaughtered members of their communion, were, in consequence, impressed with the idea of its being the precursor of evil tidings from some of their dear missionary brethren. 
                
                
                  CHAPTER XXVII. 
                  THE wheels of time are performing their second annual revolution, and are well-nigh round again, since the commission of the horrible affair mentioned in the preceding chapter. 
                  Nothing of particular moment occurred during this spate, in relation to my story, to be recorded here, except that in the interval Theodora Rauch and Rosina Schmidt married, both to respectable mechanics; the former living in the Settlement, while the other came from Salem, in North Carolina. 
                  In the early part of this period, Pauline Englehart died, followed the next summer by her sister Catharine; both were victims of consumption. The latter left but one child. Her marriage with the store-keeper, though of brief duration, proved a happy one. 
                  Sister Rosalie, in the last year, had been twice asked in marriage, yet continued single-once, being negatived by the "lot," while the other she herself declined. Some persons fancied she refused this offer because she was disappointed with regard to the other. But be that as it may, she was as cheerful as usual, pursuing her appointed round of duties with faithfulness and acceptance. 
                  A little later than this, Sister Hornel retired from her situation as elderess of the Sisterhood on account of ill health, when a Sister from England succeded her. 
                  We now return again to Benigna Waldemar, to give but a brief outline of her history in the two years or more which have passed since we last spoke of her. Faithfully had the sweet girl redeemed the promises of her earlier youth, in being the greatest earthly blessing to her adopted mother. 
                  The old lady had become entirely helpless, and was, besides, quite infirm. With this consequence of age, her irritability of temper much increased. It rendered her more and more exacting and unreasonable in the requirements she made of her protegee, who presently had to give her so much of her time and attention, as to preclude the possibility of her doing very little of anything else; consequently she was compelled continually to encroach upon the principal of their small capital, and now nearly one-half of the five hundred dollars was already spent. 
                  Their expenses, latterly, had been much increased by the additional wants of the old lady; for, with the capriciousness of sickness, she often fancied expensive nourishments; besides, her condition became such as to render it impossible for Benigna any longer to take the sole charge of her; and as yet, she could not be persuaded to remove into the sick-room of the Establishment. 
                  There were few to lend a helping hand gratuitously to the lovely orphan in her labor of filial love and duty; for almost all the Sisterhood were themselves in necessitous circumstances; besides, the distress which prevailed because of the war was so felt by the inhabitants generally, that everybody seemed to have enough to do in attending to their own concerns, and those immediately connected with them. 
                   
                  This, notwithstanding Mother Neisser's condition, and Benigna's devoted attention to her, excited the observation and interest of the good people, yet, as the latter uncomplainingly and quietly continued her arduous and severely trying charge, no particular notice was taken of it. 
                  The heart should have something to cheer and gladden it, or its sorrows and trials will prove too hard to bear. It will be borne down by suffering, if there is nothing on which to lean. 
                  The poor desolate orphan, at this dark period, had nothing save her piety and gentle virtues to sustain her; yet these in a measure failed, since her young heart, though bathed in the dews of divine grace in its experience and humility feared that she had deceived herself; and the discipline she was now undergoing was sent because she was so sinful, and that God had been very angry with her. 
                  No marvel, then, that she became desponding; yet she grappled with her various trials and hardships as well as she could; the Lord supporting, although she knew it not, because of the thick cloud of darkness surrounding her. 
                  Not a gleam of sunshine for a period illumined this gloom-no, not even a letter from Elsie or the Tracys, though she had last written to all these friends; besides, she had given the Doctor an account of her present situation. 
                  To add to her troubles, the old lady grew worse and worse in health, more and more fretful and troublesome. Indeed, now she was in a pitiable condition, being exceedingly diseased with a cancerous affection, which seemed to have extended in every direction through her system. 
                  Hence she required the attention of a much older head land stronger frame than the young, tender, fragile Benigna. The condition of both could no longer fail to excite the observation of the community generally. They now insisted upon the old lady being removed to the sick-room of the Institution, there to be taken care of by a nurse provided for the purpose. But Mother Neisser would not go without Benigna accompanying her. So the poor girl went. 
                   
                  Yet, notwithstanding all the devoted attention-the self-sacrificing spirit of this deeply afflicted orphan, there were those who inconsiderately expressed the opinion that she might have earned more money, and managed better than she did; but, as they probably would not have done any better were they placed in the same trying situation, their judgment in the case was entirely worthless. 
                  Their injudicious remarks upon the subject unfortunately reached the ears of the sensitive girl, and told sadly upon her heart and feelings. She suffered keenly, and it made her, although in failing health, redouble her exertions, toiling at her needle early and late-frequently stealing the time from her accustomed hours of sleep. 
                  In fact, Benigna thus taxed her young and tender frame too much-for, in consequence of this undue exertion, she presently became alarmingly ill. 
                  And now came the season of the greatest distress to both of these afflicted pair; for she, as well as the old lady, had to be taken care of by others; and, with their small amount of funds, this was indeed a calamity. 
                  There lay Benigna Waldemar, raving in the delirium of a brain fever. Close by her, on another bed, was the suffering Mother, whose feelings now it would be difficult to describe; suffice it to say, she was distressed and agonized in the extreme at this condition of the child of her adoption-the dearest object of her earthly love. But a brief space passed ere the sorrow and trouble-stricken girl had unconsciously revealed the secret corroding cares which, like a canker-worm, were preying upon her very life-blood; and, as the old lady listened to her tale of helpless 'misery, she painfully realized the fearful extent of the dear girl's sufferings. 
                  Bitterly, then, did she lament; while ever and anon she turned her sightless eyeballs in the direction of the almost sacrificed victim of devotion to herself. She felt her way to her burning hand, grasped it tenderly, when the scalding tears fell upon it, as she thought of her love and tenderness, of the filial duty Benigna had ever shown to her, and of the rich blessing which that gentle and lovely being had proven to her childless heart. She also remembered how her hasty temper sometimes rendered her unkind; while, from pure selfishness, she had, notwithstanding urgent entreaties to the contrary, kept the dear girl from a state of comfort-aye, and probably independence, to continue to share her humble lot. 
                  Mother Neisser was now nearing eternity. The silken cords which bound her to earth and finite objects were soon to be severed. The faculties of her mind, however, though somewhat impaired, preserved a vivid remembrance of all these facts, and, as it recurred to this period of the history of Benigna, she became affected with undefinable emotions. Yet, though she felt deeply the misery entailed upon the dear girl in remaining with her, she could not reproach herself for it; for what would have been her own condition had she acceded to the proposition of separation from one who ministered so kindly, gently, and uncomplainingly to her necessities? Here her cogitations were interrupted by the ravings of Benigna. 
                  "Work-work-work! yes, indeed I do-from morning to night-night to morning! but more-more I must do-yes, I must-more-they tell me so!" 
                  "What do they tell you?" tenderly inquired the Mother. 
                  "That I must work-work-yes they do-I will, I will-but I can't, I can't-O Lord! my heart is breaking! my head, my poor head-O Lord, help me! help me!" 
                  "Poor dear child!" exclaimed the old lady. 
                  Benigna, at this moment, became partially conscious, but not recognizing the voice, exclaimed- 
                  "Where! who! what are you! who calls me child? I have no mother"-half-consciously gazing around. "Would to God I had a mother; but I am an orphan-a poor orphan!" 
                  The poor girl here became quiet a few moments-it appeared, from exhaustion. By and by she continued- 
                  "This tedious work-it can't be done to-day-and yet it must-must-oh dear, what shall I do?" 
                   
                  "My poor child!" again sobbed forth the distressed Mother. 
                  "Yes, poor child, indeed!" was repeated by the compassionate nurse-the elderess of the Sisterhood-and several others who were present. 
                  "Child, did you say?" exclaimed Benigna, raising herself up, and looking wildly around; "who says she is my mother?" 
                  "I-I!" said the affectionate new elderess, then just recently arrived; "look upon me, my dear child, as a mother to you indeed." 
                  The sick girl, yet half bewildered, strained her vision to regard her. 
                  "Not my dear Mrs. Tracy, I am sure-or Elsie either!" and she heaved a painful sigh. "And yet you look and speak so kind." 
                  The new elderess was a remarkably handsome woman, with a very sweet expression of countenance, and, withal, one of the kindest and most tender-hearted of human beings. She hereupon stooped down, passed her arm gently around the young orphan, pressed her kindly to her heart, and embraced her. 
                  Benigna now seemed perfectly exhausted, and for a little while said nothing more but apparently dozed-the elderess meanwhile sitting near, with the hand of the invalid in hers, and tenderly hatching her. Presently she opened her eyes, when she perceived that loving and benevolent countenance still observing her. As she met its affectionate look she faintly smiled. 
                  "And are you indeed my mother? I thought she went away long ago-but you look just as I think she does; yes-yes-you must be my own dear mother! then do take me away with you to my father-to heaven; joy-let me go!" endeavoring at the same time to raise herself up. 
                  "Say not so, Benigna, my child!" exclaimed the old lady, vehemently; "you must not leave me-your poor old blind mother begs you to stay for her sake. And oh! blessed and compassionate Saviour of the world!-of me, a poor sinner-let her not die yet-spare her, this precious lamb of thy fold-spare her, but take me instead-a poor, worthless old creature. Oh, spare this blessed child, to bless my dying bed! Gracious and merciful God, oh, grant this, my prayer!" 
                  As other passionate exclamations were uttered, it became apparent that Benigna was not in her senses. But this only lasted for a brief space, for, with returning reason, came immediately the knowledge of the cause of her illness, aggravated by the appearance of the old lady, which she felt too acutely for her weak condition to bear. She had only time to give the afflicted woman some endearing token of recognition, when she relapsed into a state of perfect unconsciousness. 
                  Benigna lay perfectly quiet; but only a short time intervened, when the Mother, perceiving, the hand within hers becoming cold, wildly shrieked out that the dear child was dead-and then fell apparently lifeless upon the floor beside her. 
                
                
                  CHAPTER XXVIII. 
                  IT was a strange sight to look upon-these two children of humanity as they lay there, each upon her own bed, but yet near together; both in a state of insensibility-the old woman, and that fair young girl; neither of them conscious, but both stricken down, as it appeared, at the same moment, by the relentless destroyer-the one so wrinkled and diseased, blind and helpless through infirmities and age-the other, like a beautiful flower, fading before its time, by some blighting, baneful influence. 
                  There they lie, Mother Neisser and Benigna Waldemar-the adopted mother and her foster-child-both as if they were sinking together in that deathless sleep from which there is no waking, until the morn of the resurrection; and long it was ere either of them at all revived. Indeed, had not Doctor Bender just then come in, it is more than probable that this might have actually occurred; but he administered powerful stimulants and restoratives; presently, they both gradually recovered frond that death-like swoon. 
                   
                  Benigna revived before the Mother; but for several days afterwards she was again fearfully ill-apparently on the very threshold of the grave, struggling for life, and battling with death. 
                  At this period it became positively necessary to remove the old lady out of the room; which, however, could not be accomplished without some opposition and difficulty-she only consenting to it upon the representation that the dear girl's life depended upon the most perfect quiet and repose. 
                  When this happened, Benigna lay in a heavy lethargy, from which she would either sink into the arms of death, or wake to consciousness and convalescence. At this juncture, beside the couch of that meek and patient suffering orphan, were some individuals who watched for this crisis with the deep interest of an affectionate regard, and faithfully was she nursed and tended by these banded ministering spirits in human mould. 
                  And with them sat a bold and manly form, who, notwithstanding the rigid rules of the Society, came and took his place among these Sister maidens, and observed her with anxious solicitude and love, for the dreaded change of the disease; while ever and anon the big tears might be seen coursing their way down his sunburnt but handsome face. It was her uncle John, arrived that morning on his way to the Wyoming Valley. 
                  Beside him sat the Bishop, also awaiting the issue, ready, if necessary, to administer the last rites of the church, and with his paternal benediction place this precious lamb of his flock into the arms of the great Shepherd of Israel. 
                  The poor old Mother, too, though now more and more perceptibly declining, anticipated the critical moment with the keenest emotions of anxiety-when the decision could be rendered whether the young, innocent, pious, and self-devoted Benigna would live or die; but she could do nothing more than pray for this child of her affections, and occasionally to grope her way to her room door, to listen for some sounds from the dear invalid. Once, indeed, she managed to steal into it; then, with tottering steps, presently found herself beside the bed of the unconscious girl, when she kissed her, shed tears upon her pallid cheek, breathed fervent prayers and blessings upon her young head, then solemnly bade her farewell. 
                  And this was their final meeting on earth-for almost immediately after, an internal tumor ruptured, which speedily terminated the existence of the old lady. 
                  In the meanwhile, Benigna remained in the same heavy stupor, with only brief intervals of partial consciousness; but at length the disease of this now thrice-rendered orphan came to a crisis. Death relinquished his icy hold of the sweet girl, though seemingly with great reluctance; and, early on the morrow subsequent to the happy release of Mother Neisser, she aroused from her lethargy-free from pain and perfectly rational, yet fearfully feeble-reduced to the helplessness and weakness of delicate infancy; indeed, so debilitated, that for a space it was difficult to preserve the glimmering sparks of, her frail existence. 
                  Her condition then excited universal attention, and everybody who could, gladly did something towards aiding in the restoration of this truly devoted and self-sacrificing girl; while her Sister friends continued faithfully to nurse her. A nature that lived so much upon kindness and affection, could not but thrive under such treatment; and she did grow better, though slowly. 
                  Foremost among that band of Sister maidens, was Sister Melville, the new elderess of their Establishment, whose interesting history I purpose to make the subject of my pen at some future period. Suffice it to say, at the present, that her countenance was but the index of her soul; altogether as beautifully fair and lovely. 
                  This dear lady, while she showed the invalid unremitting attentions and kindly interest, had her heart strongly knit to hers in the sacred bonds of true Christian consanguinity-a firm land enduring friendship. Soon she dearly loved the isolated and lonely orphan, and resolved to take her henceforth under her especial care and watchful guardianship. 
                  And there, too, was Rosalie Steinberg-the dear Sister Rosalie of her childhood-the spiritual guide of her youth-just returned from her successful mission to the South. 
                  Nor must I forget to mention Sister Winny, her humble friend, who cheerfully, voluntarily, gave up her other engagements, to contribute her share of kindly attentions to her young favorite. 
                  And last, though not least, her beloved uncle John, who would soon return from the Wyoming Valley. 
                  It was some time, however, ere she knew of these drops of sweetness in her cup of affliction-nor of others which her Heavenly Father had sent, to charm her back to life. But I must not anticipate. I retrace my wandering steps to the sick-room of the feeble girl, just as she is convalescing from that fearful illness. 
                  Almost directly upon consciousness being restored, Benigna's thoughts recurred to Mother Neisser. She looked around the room, when, perceiving neither the old lady nor her bed, she anxiously inquired concerning her, but was still too weak to bear hearing the naked truth. 
                  "Make yourself easy about her," replied the good elderess; "we removed her from here on your account." 
                  "But how is she?-may I not see her?-where is she now?" together with various other similar questions, she anxiously asked. 
                  In answer to these interrogatories the elderess told her that, the Mother was doing very well-being in the very best hands, and could not be better provided for. This seemed to satisfy her for a time; but as her strength returned, Benigna became very anxious about the future. She shuddered at the diminished resources of support, and the probable necessities of the old lady. 
                  Sister Melville, in consequence, deemed it proper to inform the dear girl that her afflicted and aged friend was no more. 
                  "Your faithful labor of duty and love towards the Mother is now over, my dear child," said she. "Our Saviour saw it was too much for you, and has kindly taken her to himself." 
                   
                  "Then I am again all alone in the world," sobbed poor Benigna, as a feeling of her desolation and isolated condition vividly presented itself to her. 
                  "Say not so, my child," replied the good elderess; "the Saviour is now more than ever your friend. He is the father of the fatherless, and the orphans are his peculiar care; and he is better than a thousand parents." 
                  "But earthly ties are very dear, and I have none now here; all-all are gone, and I have nobody in particular to care for me." 
                  "My beloved child, believe not this; you are certainly mistaken, and very much so too. I am your friend, and so are Sister Rosalie and the Bishop; besides many of our dear brethren and sisters, especially here and in the Sisters' House. And you have other friends also, as these packages I am sure will testify." 
                  "Please do let me see them! Pray, who are they from? When did they come?" 
                  "Do not be so excited, my child, and I will directly tell you. They all came since you were taken ill. This parcel," pointing to one of them," arrived, I believe, by a private opportunity from Philadelphia-while Sister Rosalie brought you this," placing her hand on another, "which I think she said is from a Mrs. Walton, whom you both know very well. She tells me it was enclosed in one of hers, which she received some time ago; and this letter I hold in my hand is from a dear uncle of yours, who will be here presently to see you." 
                  Benigna now wept for very joy-her heart was fall of happiness. 
                  "Nay, nay, my child," said Sister Melville, "this must not be, I cannot allow it. I shall have to put these mementoes of your friends away until you are better able to hear them." 
                  Presently Benigna was more composed. 
                  "Now, which shall I open for you, my child?" 
                  "All!" she exclaimed with trembling delight. "Oh, please do let me hear the whole of them!" 
                   
                  The good lady shook her head. 
                  "Nay, nay, my dear daughter, this will never do; I cannot permit this. Remember you are still very weak-it would excite you too much. You must be satisfied with hearing the contents of only one at present. I think I will open this first," at the same time breaking the seal of Elsie's letter. 
                  This epistle was nearly six months old-a circumstance, however, which did not make it the less welcome or interesting. The sheet was filled with a variety of pleasant descriptions and incidents, together with delightful reminiscences-affectionate and kind feelings towards herself, all of which greatly gratified her. She was evidently as happy as possible-her domestic felicity having been recently increased by the birth of a second child. 
                  Presently the package was opened. It contained three letters. These were from her friends the Tracys, who informed her of their still being in France, but were hoping soon to return to the States, Mrs. Tracy and Emily both wrote on the same sheet, while Frederick's was by itself. All expressed their continued interest and kindly regard for the orphan girl. 
                  Sister Melville read them first to herself, then communicated the whole of the contents of the two former to Benigna; but the son's she would not, although his was in truth the most interesting of the three, and valuable in the information it gave of the habits and manners of the people-its description of places, sights, and characteristics. 
                  The good lady was a rigid disciplinarian of the Church; a strict exacter of its rules and regulations. Hence the very circumstance of this communication being addressed to her by a young man was quite sufficient, not only to prevent her from letting Benigna have it in her possession, but made her consider it possible to be rather dangerous, if not highly improper, to allow her even to hear it all read. Yet the elderess paused a while for reflection upon the subject. She was a sensible as well as an excellent woman. "It contained nothing objectionable, but, on the contrary, is altogether both instructive and entertaining." Thus she argued; then she briefly narrated the contents to Benigna; after which, she immediately destroyed the interdicted thing. 
                  The other letter was from the worthy Doctor. It inclosed a bank-note of which he knew, from the tenor of her last communication, could not but be an acceptable gift. He stated that he was suffering from illness when it came to hand-did not even hear of it until a few days before, and had taken the earliest opportunity to send a reply, "and in a way too," continued the kind writer, "which I hope will prove to you that you are still remembered with interest and regard by me." The letters from France had arrived a fortnight before, in a vessel which made a very long passage. His dates from there were much later. He had heard from the family repeatedly since. His brother was retiring from business, having realized a splendid fortune, and on the point of embarking for his native land to enjoy it there. "So we may expect them soon, and I think it very likely it will not be long afterward ere you see them and me again." 
                  The last letter was from her dear uncle John, and fall of affectionate and kind expressions, together with anxieties for the future concerning his beloved niece. He mentioned his hasty visit to her, and the distress he felt in finding her so very ill; also at her present pecuniary situation. 
                  "But cheer up, dear Ellie," he continued, "you shall be relieved of this, I promise you, when I come back; which I expect will be soon. 
                  "When I saw you so sick, and away from all your natural born friends, my heart ached terribly; but you know, dearie, we consented to all this, only because we thought it the best arrangement we could make for you; and I hope you believe this, and that I, for one, would never have allowed you to be given up to strangers, but because of this cruel necessity. 
                  "All the while we stayed in Pennsylvania, after we fled from our own comfortable home, we were constantly in a great deal of trouble, and I often thanked God that you were spared from sharing it; and we are still under a cloud, but I am in hopes, as there is peace, we will now do better. 
                   
                  "But a change-a very great change-is about to take place in our domestic relations. Your uncle Edmund is soon to be married; he will then remove to the North-Western Territory,
                        Now the state of Ohio.
                      where some of his intended wife's family are already settled, while I purpose, at least for the present, to be at Wyoming; but how long, God only knows. I cannot bear to sell the old place, where our family lived so long, and so happily. And yet there are so many sad associations connected with the latter part of our stay there, that I do not believe I shall be contented to remain, at least for a permanency. 
                  "At all events, my continuance at present will be but of short duration, as I have only come to look about me, to see how affairs are in that part of the country, and to try to arrange some business matters; besides, to secure our strong-box. I hope to find it safe, and as soon as I can afterward, I shall be back to you. So make haste, Ellie dear, and get well enough to let it be a really pleasant visit to both of us. I have got a great deal more to tell you, but will reserve it all until then. 
                  "And now God bless you, dear child, and send you speedy good health, and much happiness." 
                  What a change now passed over the very spirit of her existence, and how pleasant were the thoughts and delightful the anticipations of the gentle and affectionate Benigna Waldemar; and how bright and beautiful did the world suddenly appear to that sensitive young orphan, pining as she had been for the companionship of kindred communion, as she looked into the blissful prospective, which at present promised to reunite her quickly to so many of her dearest friends! 
                  By and by Sister Rosalie came in, to sympathize in her joy, in which the good elderess cordially participated. The feeling of desolation and sadness which had almost blighted her young being, was gone; happiness beamed in her countenance; it filled her heart with gratitude and love. It proved a perfect panacea, and from henceforth she rapidly convalesced. 
                  As soon as she had sufficiently recovered, she was removed to the Sisters' House, to the private apartments of Sister Melville. In her kind care we leave her now, while we take note of some of the other events which occurred in the Settlement, anterior to and during her illness, which have not been recorded, but should not be omitted, on account of the connection they bear to my tale. 
                
                
                  CHAPTER XXIX. 
                  THE long Revolutionary struggle was now over; war had ceased, and these United States were rejoicing in the blessings of peace, liberty, and independence. 
                  The Moravian people, as a community, suffered much from the conflict, although none of them, if I have been correctly informed, engaged personally in the contest. Their pecuniary embarrassments had become great in consequence. From these, however, they immediately began gradually to recover, as soon as peace was again firmly established throughout the land; trade revived-their various business commenced to prosper-while the labors of the husbandmen were rewarded by fruitful fields and abundant harvests. 
                  Such was beginning to be the case at the Settlement of my story, when that community of Moravians, in common with its sister ones in this country, were thrown into some agitation by the non-arrival of quite a congregation of their people from Europe, who had set sail from thence some five months or more, and had not since been heard of. 
                  Two of the party were the venerable Bishop Von Watterville and his lady, who was a daughter of Count Zinzendorf, the great patron and benefactor of the modern Church of the Brethren. 
                  He came as a commissioned Deputy from the General Synod of the Church at Herrnhut, to visit all the congregations of the Moravians in this part of the world. 
                  More than fifty years had now revolved since the renewal of the Church of the United Brethren. In the mean while, onward they had pursued their way, considerably increasing both in Christian countries and in regions where the standard of the Cross of Christ had hitherto never before been planted. Their character as a Christian people, devotedly pious, and zealous of good works, was now favorably known, and though burdened with great difficulties in supporting their various and extending establishments, were in a happy and prosperous condition. 
                  But an important era had now arrived in their history. On turning to this part of it, I find that at the Synod of 1775, it commenced by the adoption of some resolutions made expedient by the changes already taking place in the Society in general, especially with regard to its external relations and circumstances; besides, to define more clearly the principles which formed the basis of their brotherly union as a Christian community. 
                  In reference to the latter, Bishop Holmes says: "These resolutions, by the blessing of God, had a powerful influence in purifying the theology of the Brethren from any puerile and offensive notions; and in producing general unanimity on the fundamental doctrines of the Gospel. They likewise served more fully to organize the Constitution in laying down certain fixed principles as its basis." 
                  The Brethren still maintained the faith of the ancient Church in every essential principle of doctrine and constitution; but they carefully revised and amended the whole; rejecting whatever was deemed either objectionable or liable to be misconstrued. 
                  In fact, as the Society was constituted upon its reorganization at Herrnhut-formed not only of the Moravian emigrants, but of pious zealots of various other Christian denominations, each having their own views of doctrine, ecclesiastical rule, rites, and ceremonial observances, which they strenuously insisted upon introducing into the Church to adopt among her articles of agreement, and the disposition of the leaders of the enterprise of founding this Settlement being to harmonize the inhabitants into one beautiful Unity of Brotherhood, they endeavored as much as they could to meet all their wishes upon the subject. 
                   
                  It is no marvel, therefore, if the result was, they abounded in whimsicalities and absurdities; especially as, at that time, the condition of the religious world was such as to afford but little light, and still less practical knowledge, to suggest a system of government best calculated to promote the great design of their union-of evangelizing the heathen. But when these good people, I mean the influential members of their Society generally, began to be more enlightened, and obtained clearer ideas of the matter, they realized that many of the practices prevalent in their ancient Church, as well as those adopted to please the other colonists, because so fondly cherished by them, were altogether intended for another age, and could not, without detriment to the Society, be continued in practice unless considerably altered. 
                  Yet, though such was the conviction of the most intelligent of their people, the majority of the rest could not, without the sacrifice of much feeling, accede to this arrangement; they were divided upon the expediency of giving any of them up; but from this period, because some of them became unpopular, the propriety of this measure was the subject of every succeeding Synod. 
                  The Moravian people were not singular this respect. Other denominations of Christians have been, and were then, in the same position. They all had their own peculiarities, observances, and notions, which, in a like manner, they have been compelled to give up in consequence of changed opinions upon the subject. 
                  The Moravians, from their peculiar arrangements with regard to their considerable landed property, their missionary operations, and other external matters connected with them as a religious community, had perhaps more to alter or modify. 
                  Thus we find that at the Synod of 1782, the essential principles of the ecclesiastical constitution of the Church were revised; some of the peculiar regulations of the Church were somewhat altered to suit the changing times, and the different complexion of mind of the present members of the whole Society. At the same time it was proposed to issue another edition of the English Hymn Book-to omit all those deemed objectionable, either from their quaintness of style, bad translation, lame versification, or, from some other reason, considered necessary to leave out. Yet this, however, was not fully concurred in until several years later, at the Synod of 1789, because of the attachment of the people to those poetical effusions of some of their dear Brethren. But at length they agreed upon their obliteration from the collection; whereupon most of them were consigned to oblivion, and among them, I believe, all those which I have given in a former part of this book. 
                  The war bad greatly impeded the regular communication between the European and American branches of the United Brethren's church. It extended even to their epistolary correspondence, subjecting it to much delay and uncertainty. 
                  Travelling to and fro was also accomplished with considerable difficulty. On this account no American delegate appeared at the Synod in Germany of 1782, which was a great disappointment, as well as a serious matter of inconvenience, as at this time the new order of things I mentioned was being introduced into the church; which, from their peculiar relation to each other, necessarily had a great influence upon their whole community. 
                  In consequence of this total absence of all representation from America, the Synod deemed it expedient, as soon as possible afterwards, to hold a visitation in all the establishments and congregations belonging to their Unity. This was one cause of the Bishop s commission. 
                  Besides, another reason existed why a delegation to this country from the mother church should just then be sent. 
                  The introduction of a republican form of government in the United States brought with it the dissolution of the former religious establishment. They had no longer a national church. This necessarily would effect a complete change in the ecclesiastical management of the various Societies belonging to the Moravians, hitherto conducted in this country upon the same plan as in places similarly situated in Europe, where there was an established church. 
                   
                  In such countries, the Moravians established what they termed Societies-being religious associations in connection with their church, the members of which attended the public ministry and the sacraments in the parish church, but had their own private religious services, and adopted such parts of the Brethren's Constitution as were suited to their circumstances. These Societies had their own chapels, and an ordained minister of their own church to labor among them.
                        See Holmes's History, vol. I, p.298
                      Thus these religious associations must have been nothing more than simply attending their meetings, adopting a few of their regulations, while they continued in communion with the ecclesiastical establishment of the land. 
                  But as there was no longer any national church in these States, and all religious denominations were allowed to possess equal rights and privileges, the Brethren could plant churches throughout it as they pleased; enjoying complete liberty for the full exercise of the ministry and discipline of their Church. And besides, too, there were other matters, grave and important to the interest and prosperity of the whole Moravian community, which had to be discussed, and then acted upon. 
                  Hence this visitation of Bishop Von Watterville was anticipated with eager delight, and, being a man of considerable influence in the Society generally, and, together with his wife, universally beloved by their people, much real pleasure and gratification was expected. And no marvel, therefore, that, when month after month had passed without tidings from them, or any of the party that embarked with them, great apprehensions were entertained of the safety of the vessel, as well as the lives of her passengers. Indeed, his friends in America began to fear that some dreadful calamity had happened, when information was received from the missionary station at St. John's, Antigua, of the whole company having arrived safely there. It seems that the voyage had been most perilous, replete with disasters of various kinds. 
                  They must have had an exceedingly ignorant captain-very little acquainted either with navigation or geography, if we are to judge by the manner he managed his vessel, and his whole conduct. 
                  They set sail from the Texel. After tossing upon the broad Atlantic for six weeks, in the meanwhile encountering several severe gales, they found themselves near the American coast. Then they were driven about by contrary winds for ton weeks more, the captain never venturing to endeavor to land. Indeed, it is doubtful at this period if he really knew where he was, since, one morning, he actually announced to his anxious passengers his belief in the probability of having sailed past this great continent during the night. 
                  The weather at this time had become intensely cold-the vessel in a damaged condition; there was a total want of fresh water on board; besides, the provisions were nearly exhausted. 
                  At this period the condition of some of the passengers was pitiable in the extreme. The good Bishop, in particular, suffered in consequence. He had previously been in declining health-hence he felt the deprivation of comfortable and nutritious food the more sensibly. At last, nothing could be had to eat and drink, but sea biscuit and sour beer. The old gentleman had no teeth-nor could any water be procured to soak the biscuit in, but sea water; and both this and the beer made him quite ill. 
                  The Bishop and his companions now, repeatedly, urgently besought the captain to steer for the West Indies, which at length he agreed to do. 
                  The Brethren thought he finally acceded to the entreaty in expectation of being liberally compensated for it by the Bishop, who, from his rank and official situation, together with the great respect his people showed him, he considered a very important, distinguished, and, perhaps, wealthy personage. 
                  At length, to complete their misfortunes, their ill-fated vessel struck upon one of the rock. They were shipwrecked upon one of the cliffs which surround the island of Barbuda. The ship fast filled with water; two boats were immediately lowered for the passengers and crew; but, with difficulty, they were preserved from a watery grave. 
                   
                  Thee Governor of the island no sooner heard of this calamity, than he gave orders for all the passengers to come to his house, where they were hospitably entertained; and, by his active kindness, effectively assisted in obtaining most of their things from the stranded vessel. With him they remained ten days; when his Excellency sent them, in one of his own sloops, to the island of Antigua, where they arrived a few hours after, without any farther accident. 
                  Here, among his dear missionary Brethren, the venerable man had to rest awhile; for his health was much impaired by the privations and hardships he had suffered on his voyage. Yet, ere he left this portion of the world, he visited several of the missionary stations of his Brethren in that quarter, and did not arrive at his first destined port of debarkation until the following June, and at the Settlement of which I am writing, a week or two later. 
                
                
                  CHAPTER XXX. 
                  WHEN Benigna Waldemar took up her abode in the Sisters' House, she was the youngest in that Establishment; but goodness, kindness, and the other gentle virtues know no age; besides, she possessed the same winning manners and lovely disposition that distinguished her childhood, and made every one who really knew her, dearly love her. 
                  Sister Melville, who directly became so much interested in her, and could appreciate all the beautiful characteristics of her disposition, with undiminished kindness and attention continued to watch over her returning health, which, though still improving, was yet far from being restored. 
                  Her illness had made her, if possible, more lovely in appearance; but she remained feeble, and looked exceedingly delicate and fragile. Her mind had settled into a peaceful calm, but there was little or no cheerfulness about her. An indescribable something seemed to prevent it-something which she could neither define nor understand. Not that she was at all melancholy, but inclined to be serious and grave beyond her years. Perhaps this was a consequence of her sickness, and would presently wear off; or it may be produced by her present association with the good elderess, who was very much of such a temperament. But whatever was the cause, it did not settle then into a permanency, as we shall presently see. 
                  Sister Winny, who was now a working Sister in the Establishment-that is, one of those who received her board as compensation for certain services she rendered in the house-was employed the residue of her time by Sister Melville, to wait upon hen This gave her the opportunity, which she gladly made use of, to do many little acts of kindness to her favorite, young Sister Benigna; she still thought as much of her as ever, and the good creature evinced it wherever she could, in preparing many a nice little article of nourishment for her, besides in various other ways. 
                  Presently uncle John returned, which gladdened the heart of the young orphan girl. He was so kind and affectionate-so tender and so anxious-so desirous to do all he could for her-proposing first a drive, then would go out and shoot her some birds, besides showing her a thousand other little kindnesses. In truth, this dear relative had suffered much in feeling, on account of the situation of his niece, the only child of his favorite brother; and when he looked upon her, as she lay upon her bed of languishing, and heard what had reduced her to this extremity, he determined to do all in his power to prevent a recurrence of the like calamity. 
                  By and by he produced the strong box, which he opened in the presence of the Bishop, the elderess, and his niece. He took from thence a leather bag, filled with guineas, marked outside in the plain legible handwriting of her deceased grandfather, "For the little Ellinor, our William's orphan." 
                  On counting the gold there, he found two hundred and eighty guineas; besides this, were her mother's brooch, a silver tankard, and a deed of two hundred acres of the Wyoming land-her father's share of this property. He next opened another hag, of about the same size-her aunt Annie's inheritance-containing about the same amount, out of which he took fifty guineas-her bequest to Benigna, and added it to hers. 
                  "And now, my dear sir," said uncle John, "I wish to intrust this little property of my niece to you; but pray how shall this money be invested?" 
                  Bishop Steinberg hereupon informed Mr. Waldemar, that if the whole was placed in the hands of the Society they would allow her four per cent, annually, to be paid half-yearly, or the other arrangement I have mentioned, of a life annuity of eight per cent, per annum. 
                  He did not give heed to the latter proposition, but in answer inquired- 
                  "What income is necessary to support her comfortably in the Sisters' House?" 
                  The Bishop replied, that certainly twenty pounds sterling, or about one hundred dollars a year, would be a sufficiency, though most of their Sisters had less. But Benigna, in addition to the three hundred and thirty guineas, had the two hundred and fifty dollars bequeathed her by Father Neisser, besides the twenty pounds which Mr. Waldemar himself once gave her, the three guineas Doctor Tracy formerly presented to her, the twenty pounds he recently sent her; she also had rather above two hundred dollars, the residue of the old lady's little property; mating altogether something more than two thousand two hundred dollars, besides her land. 
                  "But I suppose it would not be well to sell that at present," said Bishop Steinberg. 
                  "It was my mother's wish," remarked uncle John, in reply "that in lieu of this land, if my niece desired it, one hundred guineas should be given her; and I am ready to count out this sum in place of it, if you, my dear sir, should deem it advisable in me to do so." 
                  The good Bishop consulted with the elderess and the warden den, who were appointed joint-guardians of the young orphan, while uncle John explained the whole matter to his niece. The proposition being agreed upon, he gave the money instead; when the transfer of the property was made, the deed was replaced into the strong box. 
                  "And now, Ellie dear," continued her kind uncle, taking out twenty guineas more, "you must receive this from me, to help to make you well; and God knows, I wish the amount at least ten times greater." 
                  That same day the uncle and niece, accompanied by Sister Melville, the Bishop and Sister Rosalie, were in Brother Leinbach's stage on a little pleasure excursion, in which uncle John had invited them all to join-the proprietor of the vehicle acting as their driver, and, as was his wont, serenading them on the way with some of his musical notes, blown through the leaf of a tree. He had quite a variety of tunes, and when he got tired of the leaf, he, ever and anon, raised his voice in singing. He had stentorian lungs, and made the welkin ring, in sounding forth in tuneful melody some of the Moravian hymns of the olden time. The party returned the same evening, and on the following morning uncle John left, but with the expectation of seeing his niece again within a year. 
                  Benigna Waldemar at this period was just sixteen years of age. Still as sensitive as ever-truly pious, and, withal, transcendently lovely both in person and mind. Much had she learnt in the hard school of adversity-and it strengthened her to bear the sunshine of prosperity. She possessed now the blessing of independence-which, because of her former penury, she knew how to appreciate; and, with her kind benevolent nature, no marvel if she could often realize the wants of others, and take pleasure in relieving them. Her heart, which had always rejoiced to make others happy, revelled in the delight it experienced in administering to the comfort or pleasure of others. And wherever there was sickness, sorrow, or want, there hovered, if permitted, that gentle being, endeavoring to relieve it by her affectionate attentions. 
                   
                  And faithfully, through all her trials, yea until her sickness prevented it, did she look after and try to befriend the sisters of little Crissie, in remembrance of her promise to their deceased mother. The little girls were still in the place, and as both of them were rather delicate, her kindness was the more acceptable. Yet, because of her youth and inexperience, she knew not what best do for them, therefore asked Sister Melville, who kindly advised her in the matter. 
                  But now shift we our subject to other persons connected with our story-for two of the Brethren have arrived in the place, looking for partners, as fellow-travellers in the pilgrimage of life. One was a young man-the other a widower with a houseful of children; these constituted nearly the whole of his personal or real estate-in short, all his worldly wealth. 
                  When these marriages began to be spoken of, Sister Katrina Steinbeck, the neat little Moravian milliner, presented herself before the elderess, to remind her that she wished to be considered a candidate for matrimony. 
                  Sister Melville smiled, and asked her the reason of her informing, her of this. 
                  "I mention it, Sister Melville," replied the bustling little Sister, "because I am so useful here. Sister Hornel used to say, she did not know how I could be spared. Now, if I really thought it my duty to remain all my life in the Sisters' House, I would feel obliged to be content; but as this is not my impression, and I am rather tired of cutting out caps for my Sisters, and drawing patterns for their embroidery, I would wish at least to have a chance of leaving it." 
                  "Then have you never been proposed for any of our Brethren?" 
                  "I believe not!-and I suppose it is because they were afraid I would be drawn." 
                  "But, my dear Sister, are you not happy in your present situation?" 
                  "Oh, yes!" replied Sister Katrina, "but I think I would like the change-and you will be kind enough to put me upon the list." 
                   
                  "Certainly, my clear Sister, and if you have really not been tried, your name shall be the first I will give." 
                  Upon this, Sister Katrina seemed satisfied; then hurried quickly out of the room-her courage beginning to give way, and almost frightened at the bold step she had taken. 
                  Presently the Conference met to mate these Brethren, and when the widower's case was mentioned, Sister Melville, true to her word, proposed her worthy Sister, Katrina. It was affirmatively drawn. 
                  All the members of the Conference thought it a most excellent match, and congratulated the poor widower upon it, strongly recommending this Sister, advising him to accept this destiny. He glady did so. 
                  The proposition of course had next to be submitted to Katrina herself; but when she heard the number of his children, and she was told that some of them were quite small, and of his poverty, her heart failed, and, contrary to the expectation of Sister Melville, she declined the offer, saying she believed it would be better to continue on in a life of single-blessedness, making caps for her Sisters, than to take care of so large a family. 
                  But it so happened that the unfortunate man the same day fell and broke one of his legs, which laid him up quite a considerable time. At this sad accident, it is astonishing how interested Sister Katrina became in him-how much her sympathies were excited in his behalf! 
                  Then again the little woman presented herself before the elderess, to tell her that she had changed her mind, and as soon as this dear Brother had recovered, she would marry him. 
                  And she kept to this decision; for, about two mouths afterwards, she left the Settlement as his bride. 
                
                
                  CHAPTER XXXI. 
                  BETWEEN two and three months after the occurrences last mentioned with regard to Benigna Waldemar, a travelling carriage riage brought to the Settlement the friends of her childhood, the Tracy family. 
                  Benigna was with Sister Rosalie when they arrived. She heard it almost directly-and tarried only until she had obtained the permission of her elderess-then hastened to see them. 
                  But in sorrow-yea, in deep affliction she met them-for the husband and father was no more-and the health of Emily had again become in a precarious condition. 
                  Mr. Tracy died suddenly on board the ship, when returning to this country, within a day or two of reaching Philadelphia. 
                  The family party were not the same as before. Frederick was not-among them, being still in Europe, where, according to an arrangement made with his father, he intended to remain until the ensuing autumn. But the good Doctor was there-and besides, a married sister of his, a Mrs. Parish, who had come with the intention of staying a few days with the afflicted family. 
                  All were clad in the deepest habiliments of mourning, save the invalid, who, in a white dressing gown, reclined upon a cushioned settee. She was pale as monumental marble, except her lips and the centre of each cheek, the former of which had a bright red color, while the latter a more delicate rosy tint-the very shade with which consumption beautifies the victim it marks as its prey. 
                  Emily had always continued frail, and of uncertain health; but it was only within the last year her friends began to entertain serious apprehensions concerning her ultimate recovery. Her physician directly prescribed the south of France, and her father proposed taking her there instead of returning to America; but Mrs. Tracy preferred bringing her back to her native land, and to the Moravian Settlement, where her health had, when a little girl, been so much benefited; fondly hoping that it might again have the same salutary effect. 
                  Nearly six years were now passed since the family went abroad. What an alteration had time made among these dear friends at this period! All of them bore the impress of these added years. 
                   
                  The Doctor looked considerably older. He had become partially bald-while much of the hair on his head was changed from raven black to silvery gray. 
                  On Mrs. Tracy's fine benevolent countenance, care, anxiety, and sorrow were leaving their sure and certain marks. But Emily! dear Emily! how altered was she; and to Benigna, how different were all these dear friends in appearance, than her imagination had pictured them to be-while she herself seemed quite as much changed, to both the Doctor and Mrs. Tracy. 
                  In truth, the faces of each were wearing the livery of their own hearts, thoughts, and experiences. When Benigna first saw these cherished friends again, although it afforded her exquisite pleasure, yet it powerfully affected her; and she wept abundantly as she looked upon that mournful group, and found herself fondly embraced-first by one, then by another dear member of this beloved family. 
                  Presently, she went to Emily-bent over her-fondly caressed, at the same time whispering in the ear of the sick girl the hope of her soon being better. 
                  Emily seemed at first a little shy-not immediately distinctly remembering her. This Benigna perceiving, she mentioned some little circumstances, interesting to both, which had happened on her previous visit-reminding her of their many pleasant walks and juvenile sports; next, she told of their grief at parting, and how she had promised never to forget her. 
                  "Nor has she, my dear Ellinor," said Mrs. Tracy. "I often spoke of you to her, and she will presently recollect you." 
                  And she did evidently return to her remembrance-though not as strongly as Benigna desired. She seemed to live more in her memory as an ideal character than as a real person. Yet one impression she retained of her, which so delighted the young orphan that it compensated for all her other forgetfulness. She remembered her mother had called Benigna her little comforting angel; and, as she recalled this pleasant reminiscence, the invalid smiled-and oh, how gratefully pressed the hand of Benigna, when, in the warmth of renewed interest and rekindled affection, she promised to endeavor again to minister to her comfort, to be a spirit of consolation and kindness, in soothing the wearisome tediousness of sickness. 
                  "You will then let us see you frequently, my dear child," said Mrs. Tracy. 
                  "Yes, certainly, if I can obtain the consent of my elderess." 
                  Mrs. Tracy here recollected the objection formerly urged against Benigna's visiting them at the tavern. 
                  "We are here only transiently," she observed; "we expect to leave the Eagle to-morrow for private lodgings; therefore I suppose there will be no objection to your coming." 
                  Benigna did not immediately reply; then answered- 
                  "I do not know positively. Our Society is so strict about such things; but believe me, my dear Mrs. Tracy, if I do not come it will not be my fault." 
                  And with this understanding she soon after returned to the Sisters' House. 
                  Various now were the emotions exciting Benigna Waldemar on this return to the Settlement of the friends she had long so earnestly desired to see, and whose coming she had anticipated with so much pleasure. But every thing about them being so different than her fancy had imagined it would be, the contrast painfully affected her. Yet how glad it made her that they were again near her, though her rejoicing was mingled with so much sadness and disappointment And besides, she had another damper to her feelings on the occasion, though the innocent girl, perhaps, was not fully conscious of it-this being the absence of Frederick Tracy from that loved circle. 
                  As Benigna thought upon these things, she met Sister Rosalie, to whom she communicated all the particulars concerning her visit to these dear friends; then consulted her in relation to the continuance of her intercourse with them, entreating her to use her influence with the elderess and the Bishop for that purpose. 
                  Rosalie readily promised to do this. But, nevertheless, Benigna heard nothing in reference to it, and remained in doubt as to the result for several days. In the interval, the family had shifted their lodgings; and it so happened, were accommodated in the same house where Elsie Ashley for some months formerly found a home. 
                  The interdict with regard to the strangers had not yet been removed, when, as Benigna was entering the Widows' House, on an errand from Sister Melville, a little girl handed her a note. 
                  It was from the good old Doctor, chiding her for her long absence, and requesting to see her, if possible, the same afternoon. 
                  Benigna hurried with her business, then retraced her steps quickly back to the Sisters' House; nor did she stop until she found herself in the presence of the elderess, when she pleaded her own cause. Sister Melville gravely heard her-looked anxiously-hesitated, and refused her request. Benigna again urged her wishes. She spoke of the afflicted mother-the suffering daughter-the good old uncle; and of the affection and happiness they had so freely bestowed upon her; then, bursting into tears, she again entreated leave to go and see them. This moved Sister Melville; then, after a moment's pause for reflection, she yielded to her wishes on the condition that she should be very circumspect in her conduct, and not stay too long a period with them. 
                  Permission was no sooner granted than Benigna hurried away to her anxiously expecting friends. She met the Doctor at the door. 
                  "My dear child," said he, "why have you not been to see our Emily before?" 
                  "Simply because I could not," she replied, with a disturbed countenance;" but pray do not ask me any questions about it, if you please, for it makes me very unhappy." 
                  He looked at Benigna, surprised at her peculiar manner, following her into the room where his sisters and Emily were. 
                  Mrs. Tracy had several trunks open before her, which she was busy in unpacking, while various articles of wearing apparel were scattered around in different places in the apartment. 
                  "My dear girl, how glad I am that you are at length come," said Mrs. Tracy, affectionately kissing her. "We have been disappointed in not seeing you before; and my poor Emily has scarcely spoken of anything else but yourself since you were here. How altered you are, my love-so grown and improved." 
                  "Yes, she is greatly changed," said the Doctor; "and very much for the better, I should judge; yet a little rustic I perceive," continued he, smiling, "just enough to make her the more interesting. And now, Ellinor, my daughter, I wish to make you and my sister Parish well acquainted; she loves you already from what I have told her of you. I hope you are still the same sweet girl you used to be; and trust that heart of yours, my dear, is unchanged in its warm, loving character; and that you and Emily, poor girl, may be as good friends as you formerly were." 
                  The tears stood in Benigna's eyes-for a moment, she could not speak. 
                  "How good! how kind you are, dear Doctor Tracy! Oh, you do not know how glad I am to find that you still regard me so kindly-that you all are continuing to love me." 
                  Then, turning to Mrs. Tracy, she continued: 
                  "During all these long years you have been away, my dear mother-friend," throwing her arms around her as she spoke, "I have always remembered you all with, unutterable affection; and now that you are here, I feel a pleasure which nothing but that affection could produce. Indeed, ever since we met again, you have scarcely been out of my thoughts-was constantly craving to see you, yet I could not come until now." 
                  Mrs. Tracy looked at her sweet face, and, observing its troubled appearance, said no more upon the subject. She changed the conversation by showing a quantity of Emily's dresses, which she had brought from France. Some among the most costly and beautiful were entirely new, and never had been worn-then again, there were several others yet unmade. In a little while she had told Benigna to select a couple of these for herself. She chose a white muslin and a spotted cambric, then quite a new and expensive article of dress. 
                   
                  "And you must let me give her one too," said Emily; another was selected, a dark print, of a genteel and neat pattern. 
                  In a brief space afterwards, the young orphan and Mrs. Parish were chatting together as if they were old acquaintances, when they were joined by the Doctor and Mrs. Tracy, together with Emily, whose feelings towards her former friend were completely restored. 
                  The Doctor kindly inquired of Benigna concerning herself. She told him considerably of the history of her life since she had last seen him. The family were all very much interested;-but when she gave an account of her trials, difficulties, troubles, and sickness, and a brief narration of the circumstances attending the death of Mother Neisser, all were affected to tears, even the stranger lady-all wept over these accumulated trials of the young orphan. 
                  In the midst of this kindly sympathy, Benigna was obliged to leave her friends and hasten back to the Sisters' House. She went immediately to Sister Melville, to report her return. She entered the apartment of the elderess, looking happier than she had ever seen her, bringing the benefactions of her friends for her to look at, and then gave her a faithful narration of her visit. She was so candid and ingenuous in her conduct as to induce the good lady in consequence to allow her to go again; and thus she repeatedly succeeded in being able to visit these friends. 
                  Soon Bishop Steinberg, with his daughter, called upon the Tracys, and renewed their acquaintance with the family; and presently afterwards, the good elderess herself; and Sister Melville directly became so much interested in all of them, that she not only no longer opposed Benigna's visits there, but frequently accompanied her. 
                
                
                  CHAPTER XXXII. 
                  THE Tracy family now drove out every fine day in their travelling carriage, Benigna often bearing them company; and it was very serviceable to her. From this period she rapidly improved in health, and never had she been happier. 
                   
                  Mrs. Parish, instead of only remaining a few days, as she first intended, was still at the Settlement. She had become quite as much interested in Benigna as the rest of her family-and would have been equally glad to adopt her. She was a widow, and childless. Thus time passed, and swiftly it glided by. 
                  Presently the autumn came, and with it Frederick Tracy arrived at the Settlement. The first time Benigna saw him she looked at him over and over again over she recognized this playmate of her childhood; he was so much changed. She could not but be struck by his appearance, being so very unlike her idea of him. Doubtless the contrast he presented to his Sister made it the more so. 
                  Frederick Tracy was a fine, healthy-looking young man; had grown up remarkably handsome; was polished, refined, and elegant in his manners-an accomplished young gentleman, and uncommonly promising; yet evidently possessed the same affectionate and noble-hearted character which had impressed Benigna in his boyhood. At the moment of her again meeting him, she found him gazing with fond affection upon his Sister Emily, apparently deeply distressed at the ravages which disease was making upon her fragile form. 
                  Near the invalid, upon a table were several glass jars, containing different kinds of jellies-with a number of boxes and papers, filled with various sorts of confectionery, which he had brought her. All these things had been recommended to him, either as beneficial in cases like hers, or as nice delicacies to tempt her appetite. 
                  At the time when Benigna entered the room, the brother and sister were alone, and Frederick so much engaged with Emily that he did not perceive her coming, neither did the sick girl see her friend. But Mrs. Tracy, followed by the Doctor, came in a few moments afterwards, and presented them to each other. Frederick started with surprise and pleasure. 
                  "Is this indeed my former playmate, Ellinor Waldemar?" exclaimed he, cordially shaking her by the hand. 
                  "It is! it is!" she replied, returning the pressure as warmly; "and I must say too, are you indeed the Frederick Tracy of my childhood?"-and then, how many questions' had they both to ask; how much happiness the twain enjoyed, recalling some of the incidents of those days-each retaining a distinct remembrance of that happy age of their earlier youth. 
                  Thus they passed an hour or two of delightful intercourse, and were as happy as in the blissful period of their first acquaintance; and there was no alloy to that happiness, for even Emily enjoyed it. She so rejoiced in the return of the brother she so fondly loved, and in seeing the pleasurable excitement it produced upon the home circle, that it really seemed to do her good, and make her feel better. 
                  I say there was no alloy-neither did there exist any, except in the heart of Benigna Waldemar; for she knew that now probably her intimacy with all these dearly cherished friends would almost altogether cease. It was a painful anticipation, but she strove to banish it, in order to enjoy her present brief time of happiness. 
                  Benigna judged rightly-for from this date she could no longer visit the family unless accompanied by her elderess or sister Rosalie, because it would be infringing upon one of the rules of the Society. But objections had recently been started against this regulation; some of the good people deemed it unnecessarily strict and rigid, and in fact an unreasonable requirement, and were in favor of allowing a limited mingling of the unmarried portion of their community among themselves. The number of advocates for the adoption of this measure was, however, as yet, considerably in the minority, the majority still entertaining the wish of maintaining the prohibitory laws upon the subject. 
                  I have said that Benigna had no longer the privilege of being alone with her friends, enjoying pleasant tete-a-tetes with one or another of them, and mentioned the arrangement made to enable her to continue her friendly association with them. It was faithfully observed for several weeks, until it happened one day, when they expected her coming, neither of her usual attendants was able to accompany her. These circumstances presented a barrier to the gratification of this anticipated pleasure which the good elderess, knowing it would be a great disappointment to all the parties concerned, deeply regretted, and would fain gladly set aside if she could, more particularly as her absence would doubtless be deeply felt by Emily, who would be much annoyed by it, and rendered unhappy. And as she had become much interested in the invalid, and entertained a high respect for her mother and uncle, it quite grieved her to be the occasion of any discomfort to them. Then she thought of Benigna, so quiet and retiring, modest and discreet in her conduct-so conscientious, pure, and good-so calculated to inspire confidence-she surely would not abuse the privilege; and she resolved to trust her. 
                  Acting upon this impulse, she summoned her before her. Sister Melville received the young orphan with her usual kindness, but looked anxious and thoughtful. 
                  "I have sent for you, my dear Benigna, to talk upon a very serious matter with you. You know the regulation we have concerning our unmarried people, especially young persons, and that in consequence your intercourse with your friends, the Tracys, has, since the arrival of the son, been very much restricted-Sister Rosalie and I always from that time being with you. But to-day it appears neither of us can bear you company, and I am placed in a dilemma how to act." 
                  "Oh, Sister Melville! dear Sister Melville, let me go; I will do nothing wrong, I assure you-nor to grieve you, I promise." 
                  "Dear child," replied the elderess, "but I am afraid of the young man." 
                  "Afraid of Frederick?" she innocently replied; "pray do not believe he would do me any harm, he has always been good and kind to me." 
                  "No doubt of that, my dear, and yet I fear him." 
                  "But why?" 
                  "Perhaps because he is so good and kind-so affectionate and attractive. My child! my dear Benigna!" continued the good lady, "the tender object of so much of our hope and promise; you, whom everybody must love, can we expose you thus! to the influence of temptations which you may not be able to resist; to the voice of a charmer who may lure you to forgetfulness of the vows which you are expected to pledge yourself to perform? Oh, ask me not, my dear young Sister, to place you in this peril!" 
                  "But, dear Sister Melville, how can my visiting Emily do all this?" Benigna innocently inquired. 
                  "By bringing you frequently in contact with each other; and this positively must be prevented. Fain would I, my dear child, save you from this sorrow." 
                  Benigna could not yet understand her-being not at all aware of her own fascinations, and how attractive they were to the other sex. She was entirely ignorant of the tender passion; for the Moravians, in carrying out their peculiar notions upon the subject, relative to this part of their rules, made love a forbidden subject of discourse among their young people-at least to those of as tender an age as Benigna; besides, she had been so carefully watched and closely observed, as to keep her remarkably innocent regarding these matters. But the manner of the elderess startled her. Then again she pleaded permission to go; the good lady shook her head negatively; her scruples were not yet removed. 
                  "You are beautiful, my child; it is a dangerous gift, and often ruinous to the possessor. Beware lest it prove a snare to you!" 
                  "Then I am sorry I have got it, Sister Melville; but tell me, if you please, of what I am in danger-what I am to guard against-and I will be entirely guided by you in my conduct." 
                  Yet again and again she renewed her request. At length she prevailed; but only on the stipulation and promise being given that she would not make a long stay, and waste no time or attention upon the gentlemen of the family, especially on Frederick Tracy, whom the good lady represented as a particularly dangerous character. She even prohibited her from entering into conversation with him, unless she could not avoid it. 
                  As soon as all this was settled, Benigna hastened to her friends, who were almost tired of waiting for her; staid her given time, then returned to the elderess, having a countenance radiant with happiness and innocence, and told her all the particulars of her visit, and ended by begging Sister Melville to let her go again on the morrow. 
                  Her ready obedience, together with the account she gave of herself, pleased the elderess. She looked at the sweet girl a moment-smiled, then granted the wish-but with the same restrictions as before; and thus she continued to prefer her requests, and obtained them by her coaxing entreaties, her winning, persuasive powers. 
                  A few days, however, after this first visit, much to the relief of the elderess, Frederick left for Philadelphia. He went with his aunt, Mrs. Parish, intending to return in a fortnight. 
                  In the interval of his absence, Benigna was allowed a much longer time with her friends; and she passed the greater part of every day with them. 
                  I have spoken of the fondness of the orphan for doing fancy needle work. She was naturally very industrious, and at this time embroidering on satin, with floss silk, a picture of Moses in the bulrushes, which she intended as a present for Mrs. Tracy. Every part of it she kept carefully covered, except the spot she was working-to preserve it nice and clean, as well as to conceal it from the observation of her friends. 
                  This she now took with her to employ herself upon it; yet she progressed but slowly, because of the shortness of the days: it was then October, and the weather becoming cold and disagreeable. Time glided rapidly by-bringing the fortnight to a close, and Frederick with fresh delicacies for his sister. 
                
                
                  CHAPTER XXXIII. 
                  IT is four months since the Tracys returned to the Settlement. In the meanwhile Emily grew no better; yet she declined so gradually, that even the experienced judgment of her uncle could scarcely perceive it. Her mother and Frederick thought her health improving; and so did Mrs. Parish, and all cheated the child with the hope of her final recovery. 
                  Benigna was the only member of the party who really expressed no opinion upon the subject; yet she alone spoke to her of death, the grave, and eternity; and so sweetly did she discourse of its solemn realities, and with such pathos and tenderness, that no one checked her, while the sick girl herself listened with deeper and deeper attention, until at length her heart became so softened that religious truths were easily impressed thereon, and she became really and truly a Christian believer-an earnest and sincere disciple of the Saviour. Thus, while her outward frame was decaying, the indestructible, immaterial, and ever living principle of her being became renewed by the sanctifying influences of the Holy Spirit, fitting her for a blissful immortality beyond the grave. 
                  Oh! it was a sublime spectacle-a sight, methinks, to gladden the angelic hosts, to see that lovely young creature only of sixteen summers, on whose brow and soul Heaven had set the seal of its ownership, with glowing tongue and beaming eye directing a more youthful candidate for eternity into the path of piety-the road to eternal happiness. Yes, such was the mission of this blessed one to the sick and now dying Emily-aye, and to her mother besides; for she, too, heard her not in vain. She received the lessons of heavenly wisdom in her very soul, accepted the offered mercy which Benigna so sweetly described, and learned to love her Saviour and her God. 
                  While all these important events were transpiring, other effects resulted from the frequent communications Benigna had with the family. She had again excited the powerful interest of the good Doctor-while to Frederick she became the object of especial regard; and ere he himself really knew it, he was loving her with all the warmth of his ardent nature. Yes-he, the intellectual, polished, elegant and wealthy Frederick Tracy, who could have mated with the proudest and most aristocratic in the land, was deeply in love with the pious and pure-minded, gentle and unsophisticated, but beautiful girl; and would gladly have taken as his bride the young orphan, Benigna Waldemar, the fairest, and the most youthful of the Sister-band of that Moravian Sisters' House. 
                  Thus the apprehensions of the worthy elderess were not groundless-the temptation was to come upon her-the charmer to lure her from duty-sorrow was to be in her heart-and a cloud to rest upon her beautiful countenance. 
                  But ere we enter upon this portion of her history, we will return to the chamber of the invalid, and tarry with her awhile, to note a few of the incidents which occurred there during this period. 
                  As Benigna's presence had become so necessary to her sick friend, and she herself was so truly pious and prudent withal, the elderess no longer withheld her consent from the continuance of her visits; and, indeed, when solicited, did not object to her staying altogether with the afflicted family. Accordingly, she again brought her embroidery frame, and made her home with them for the present. 
                  And thus she passed the winter. Then spring came, but brought no returning health to the feeble invalid. Indeed, early in March, she was very ill, and from that period failed more rapidly. 
                  The first event of interest which happened in relation to the character of my story, which I notice, was the baptism of Emily. This was first brought about at the suggestion of Benigna, then acted upon by her own desire. As soon as Benigna ascertained that this rite had never been performed to her sick friend, she strongly urged the duty of having it done. She remembered her own case, and never had forgotten the instruction given her upon the subject. 
                  "You believe in the Saviour, dear Emily, then why not receive the seal of his covenant, and be united to his visible Church?" 
                  Emily did not answer immediately. 
                  "I do-and yet I do not know enough about the rite. I am altogether so ignorant of the true meaning of it, and how I ought to feel about it, and if I am really fit for the ordinance." 
                   
                  "Oh, dear Emily," replied Benigna, "let not these objections prove obstacles in your way. You can soon be properly instructed upon the subject by our dear Bishop, and taught by the Holy Spirit to feel as you ought, and your mind rightly prepared to receive this blessed ordinance." 
                  Almost immediately after this conversation, Bishop Steinberg was requested to visit this young disciple in order to qualify her for this solemn service. 
                  Emily had to be baptized as an adult on account of her age. The service differed somewhat from the one used at Benigna's, because she was a child, and in such cases sponsors were always appointed, while adults have none; hence the responsibilities and vows taken with the latter are only upon the recipients themselves. On this account much careful instruction is wont to be given, and formerly the candidate was, for some time previously, under very strict discipline and rigid rules, spending a great portion of it in solemn exercises of religious devotion. But, in circumstances like the present, some of these observances, on account of the condition of Emily, were obliged to be dispensed with. 
                  But the Bishop faithfully attended to instructing her-carefully expounding to Emily the gospel-simply setting forth the plan of salvation, until he was well satisfied with the answers and frame of mind of his pupil. In consequence, he administered this ordinance to her. 
                  Emily had scarcely been thus admitted into the visible flock of Christ, when she earnestly desired another favor-a participation in the Holy Sacrament of the Lord's Supper. And this, too, was granted, though not as soon as she desired; for, at the time appointed, she had a weak turn, which caused it to be deferred. 
                  But presently she was better; and then did she, with Benigna, the elderess, Sister Rosalie and the Bishop, receive these memorials of their Saviour's dying love. 
                  Her mother was the only spectator present when her almost angel-child thus ratified her baptismal vows. She supported the feeble Emily in her arms during the whole of this solemn service. All, save herself, were habited in snowy white-the Bishop in his linen surplice, and the maidens, from their Superior down to the sick young girl, in plain white garments with the Moravian cap of book-muslin upon their heads, tied under the chin as usual, with pale pink ribbon. 
                  It was a scene of thrilling interest in that chamber of sickness-that little group of lowly worshippers-the aged man of God and his daughter, the placid-looking elderess, the mourning mother, her dying child with her youthful friend beside her, the attractive influence of whose piety first kindled the flame of pure devotion in the heart of this interesting young sufferer-so drawn its affections and aspirations upward-so plumed her wings to soar heavenward-so spiritualized and etherealized her very nature, that she was willingly quitting her hold of life, relinquishing without a sigh, all the pleasurable prospective before her, as the child of affluence-the idol of affectionate relatives-regarding all these blessings as nothing, compared to the glorious inheritance she expected to receive beyond the skies. 
                  The weather had been very changeable for the last few weeks-sometimes warm, then chilly or wet. This greatly affected Emily, who was too feeble to go out; afterwards happened a succession of very pleasant days, when she revived again sufficiently to be able to resume her usual drives in the neighborhood-her uncle or Frederick, if not both, generally accompanying her-also her mother and Benigna. 
                  It was during this period of her debility that her mother first abandoned all hope of her recovery, and realized that her daughter would indeed descend to an early grave. Yet not until the last-mentioned occurrence of her taking the Communion, did she allow herself to believe it possible her death might be near; then, when she admitted the idea, she was constantly dreading the summons. 
                  Benigna, in this interval, became more and more indispensable. She continued to minister her kindly attentions to her sick friend, now rendered far dearer to her than ever; besides, to soothe the aching heart of the widened mother, to tranquillize her troubled mind, to cheer them both with heavenly promises, to be their comforter and stay-their solace and support. 
                  Mrs. Tracy, fully appreciating these gentle ministrations of affectionate sympathy manifested by the sweet girl, became more endeared to her in consequence. She now cherished the hope, she might yet hold to her maternal heart that loving, amiable, kind being, claiming, as a privileged right from her, a daughter's filial duty and affection. 
                  Mrs. Tracy suspected her son's attachment-it gave her pleasure. She hoped it would be reciprocated; and the fond fancy cast a ray of sunshine upon her gloomy horizon. Emily, too, entertained an earnest wish that her mother should always have this precious comforter near her; and she resolved herself to request this favor from her friend, as the last earthly boon she would crave of her. 
                  While all these thoughts and purposes were passing through the hearts of the mother and daughter, the good bishop had made his observations-and he, too, had resolved upon a course of action in the matter. For while watching the spiritual growth of this sick blossom of mortality, and by his prayers and counsels aiding her to be transplanted into the garden of heaven, Bishop Steinberg first perceived the love of Frederick Tracy for Benigna Waldemar. 
                  It immediately caused him great anxiety, more especially because through his influence principally, the elderess had permitted such frequent intercourse between the parties. He remembered how Mother Neisser anticipated this attachment-how much apprehension she had upon the subject, when the sweet girl was still a child-and how preposterous her fears then appeared to him, though now it seemed they were well founded. 
                  Yet Benigna apparently remained unconscious of the state of the young man's feelings towards her. Being so thoroughly occupied in her attentions to the invalid, perhaps it had entirely escaped her notice; so the Bishop thought, and that she regarded Frederick only with the warmth of sisterly interest and friendship. Therefore he indulged the hope, that by judicious management a successful check could be put to the aspirations of the young man, thus preventing all further difficulty resulting from his present intimacy with Benigna. So he determined, as the wisest and best course, to let the gentleman be acquainted with the peculiar arrangements universal in the Society for settling their matrimonial connections. 
                  An early opportunity presented itself, when the conversation took place between them which will be found in the succeeding chapter. 
                
                
                  CHAPTER XXXIV. 
                  FREDERICK had been "making some inquiries relative to the Church. 
                  "Are the Moravians like the Episcopalians, or the Roman Catholics?" he asked. 
                  "We resemble the former the most. Our faith is similar; and we hold to the same ecclesiastical regulation of three orders in the ministry, which we, like them, can trace to apostolical succession. But we differ from each, and indeed from every other religious denomination, in our internal arrangements-our domestic code of rules and laws." 
                  "I know you have some peculiarities," replied Frederick," but I am entirely ignorant of most of them. Your style of dress I recollect, especially that of the ladies, amused me very much, when first I saw it-and the manners of your people, too, seemed in general quaint and strange. But every Society has, I suppose, its distinctive peculiarities, just as nations have their own particular customs and usages." 
                  "That is true, my young friend; but yet generally there are more points of resemblance between them. But we differ greatly from every other sect or people." 
                  "Will you be kind enough to tell me some of these points of difference?" 
                   
                  "I refer particularly to our peculiar solemn observances-the rites and ceremonies at our festive celebrations-the manner of conducting many of our services-the method of training our young people, and yet more especially, the belief we entertain of the Divine government of our Saviour in the Brethren's congregation." 
                  Frederick could not understand the meaning of the good Bishop, which he, perceiving, continued: 
                  "We do not claim to have this right exclusively-to consider ourselves thus favored; but we argue that the Lord is Head of our Church, as we have placed ourselves directly under his particular care, and have invoked his guidance,-and we believe he has made an especial covenant with us and accepted us as his peculiar property. Hence we refer everything to him, and with childlike confidence submit ourselves to his will and pleasure." 
                  Frederick was mystified. 
                  "Really, my dear Sir," said he, "I cannot understand you-for surely you do not consider yourselves God's peculiar people!" 
                  "We certainly are, yet not exclusively so, I repeat again; nil true followers of the Saviour are entitled to think so; but there is no denomination of Christians besides, who I believe so thoroughly desire to know the Divine will, in order to be governed by it, as we professedly do-and certainly there arc none who so determinedly crucify their own wills and inclination, in maintaining this principle, or adopt such extraordinary measures to accomplish it." 
                  "Does this affect the every-day circumstances of life!" 
                  "It does, my young friend, even in the dearest domestic relations," 
                  "Pray how, may I ask?" 
                  "Why! we do not even write to one another-visit our friends-take a journey, settle in a new locality, or marry a wife, without consulting the Divine will ere we act; for whatever we do, we wish to be done to the Lord; and whatever we purpose, we submit first to him for heavenly direction." 
                   
                  "But how can you obtain this knowledge-how ascertain the will of God?" 
                  "By fervent and earnest prayer, together with childlike faith, and trust in providential leadings." 
                  "I confess, my dear Sir, I cannot yet understand you. Will you be so kind as to explain to me how you find out the mind of God?" 
                  "Certainly! we make use of the 'lot' in forming every decision." 
                  "The lot!" exclaimed Frederick, "you perfectly amaze me!" 
                  "Yes, my young friend-and we regard its use with thankfulness, as the means granted to us for learning the Divine mind, when the Lord does not give us to know his will in any other way." 
                  "But yet it is incomprehensible to me how you can ascertain to a certainty, that you really are fulfilling the purposes of God by adopting this extraordinary method of procedure." 
                  "Yet, nevertheless, we do; we have the most perfect confidence in it. But though we resign ourselves to the use of the 'lot' we do not always feel compelled to adhere to its decision; because sometimes we may have conscientious scruples against the proposition made; and then its decision is not binding. And all our happiness as a people is derived from this singular custom, and, as I have mentioned before, all our matrimonial connections are thus formed." 
                  "All married by lot!" exclaimed Frederick Tracy; "surely this is too strange to be true!" 
                  "Yet, strange as it is, this is certainly the case; and thus my daughter, Benigna Waldemar, and all our other Sisters, together with every one of our marrying Brethren, will have their marriages determined." 
                  "Not all! for I am sure Benigna Waldemar never could be satisfied to marry in such a way! She is too affectionate, has too much feeling, too much heart and soul, and is entirely too sensitive, I am confident of that. No, Sir! she will never marry so unnaturally!" 
                   
                  "Then she will remain single, which I sincerely hope may not be the case; since she is so admirably calculated for domestic life. However she is still too young to think of these things; yet I have every confidence in her being as willing as the rest of the Sisterhood cheerfully to comply with this regulation." 
                  Then, laying his hand upon the arm of Frederick, the good Bishop looked earnestly at him, saying: 
                  "But try her not, my young friend! try her not!-tempt not this precious lamb of our fold to wander into forbidden pasture; to swerve from her duty to her God and her church. She is tender-hearted, impressible, and affectionate; youthful feelings are strong, and the passions easily excited. Oh! tempt her not, my dear young man; promise me this!" 
                  Frederick was powerfully affected. In vain he essayed to reply, but could not speak. He turned deadly pale-and, trembling with agitation, endeavored again and again to say something in answer to the Bishop, yet could not. It seemed as if utterance was denied him. Then, greatly to his relief, several persons entered the apartment, which put an end to the conversation. 
                  That same day, just as Emily had dropped into a quiet and comfortable sleep, Sister Rosalie came to inquire how she was, and to see Benigna. A few minutes after, she had persuaded the latter to accompany her to her father's to take the Vesper meal with them. There they met Sister Melville, the elderess. It was a preconcerted arrangement between these three stanch Moravians thus to meet their young Sister, in order to satisfy themselves concerning her present state of feelings with regard to Frederick Tracy, as well as unitedly to give her their counsel and advice respecting her general conduct. 
                  Benigna was as candid and artless as ever. She had no secret to conceal, but spoke unreservedly and innocently of every member of the family. She mentioned them all with much affection. Emily she called not only her friend, but her very dear sister. Frederick, her dear kind brother; Mrs. Tracy, her much loved mamma, and the Doctor, a dear good uncle. 
                   
                  Her heart seemed brimful of every grateful and affectionate feeling towards them, while her eyes glistened with emotion, as she told of the many kindnesses she experienced from these valued friends. 
                  "Uncle Doctor has just returned from Philadelphia," continued she-"he brought me a beautiful work-box, which I must show you all. It has every article that I want when I sew; besides a number of other things. Oh! is he not a dear, good man? and I love them all so dearly," continued the warm-hearted girl. 
                  "They are very kind, certainly. And it is right that you are grateful, my dear Benigna," replied Sister Melville-"but you must not let it make too deep an impression upon your mind." 
                  "Yes," added the Bishop-"we are thankful, my child, that the Lord has raised you such excellent and kind friends; but you must remember, my dear, they are but temporary blessings; therefore enjoy them while you have them-yet, let your affections sit loosely upon them, since, as they do not belong to us, your connection with them cannot be of long continuance." 
                  Benigna started-turned pale-and looked pained at this remark. 
                  The good Bishop went on: 
                  "You know, you are a daughter of our Church; and she has stronger claims upon you than any earthly being. These good friends of yours are worthy of your gratitude, but you must not love them too well." 
                  "Is it possible that I can do this?" inquired the unsuspecting girl. 
                  "Yes, you certainly can, my daughter," replied the elderess; "you may indeed be tempted to this sin; therefore, watch over yourself, my child; guard well that young and tender heart of yours. Let the Saviour's image and love dwell there, be the supreme object of your affections, and may our Lord keep you unspotted from all sinful desires, and preserve you from evil." 
                  Much more was said to the sweet girl. In the whole conversation, her words and actions were carefully scrutinized; yet nothing ing was elicited thereby to furnish sufficient reasons for placing a barrier to her intercourse with the afflicted family; much to the relief of the worthy trio, but more especially to the Bishop, who particularly felt how painfully unpleasant such a course of procedure would necessarily be in its consequences to all parties concerned. 
                  During her absence, several friends of the Tracys from Philadelphia had arrived, who were still with the family when Benigna returned. They remained in the Settlement a day or two, when they left for the Delaware Water Gap. 
                
                
                  CHAPTER XXXV. 
                  THE evening of the same day found Benigna by the bedside of Emily, who, refreshed by her nap, seemed quite bright and cheerful. Yet there was a sultriness in the atmosphere which presently affected her; but ere she became sensible of this, she had asked Benigna to read to her, or tell her something interesting. 
                  "I have exhausted my stock of stories I believe, dear Emily, but yet I will try to recollect some little circumstance to amuse you." 
                  Benigna was considering what it should be, when, turning towards a window, she observed a dark cloud rising, and almost immediately afterwards heard the sound of distant thunder. She looked anxiously at her sick friend, knowing her constitutional predisposition of being excessively frightened. 
                  "Do not be alarmed, dear Emily," said she, "we are going to have a thunder-storm;" and, taking her hand in hers, she continued: "Would that you were a child, Emily, then perhaps I could beguile you out of this fear, even as I myself have been in the days of my childhood." 
                  "Well-I will try to fancy myself one-and believe just as implicitly whatever you tell me." 
                   
                  "Well, then listen to my story. Some time ago, there were two little girls, sisters-both of whom used to be so terribly frightened at thunder and lightning as to put them into convulsions. Their poor mother, sadly distressed, prayed to God to take pity upon them, and in some way relieve her children of their terror. Her prayer was heard and granted; for one day, as the clouds were preparing to discharge a heavy artillery, and her little ones clung to her in affright, an angel of light whispered in their ear to fear not-'for when the thunder is rolling over your head, think that the angels have gathered at one of their solemn meetings-and the sound you hear is the moving of their seats-and when you see the lightning, imagine they are snuffing their candles. Then the children ceased from their trembling, nor ever after feared a thunder-storm. They always thought of the friendly visit of the angels, and fancied the sister-spirits assembling for their heavenly worship." 
                  "Is that all?" inquired Emily. 
                  "It is," replied Benigna. 
                  "What a beautiful story! and see now, I am as much a child as those little girls were, for although the storm is becoming truly terrific, yet I feel wonderfully calm and pleasant. But, perhaps, dear Benigna, it is because I no longer fear death. Oh! what a blissful thought it is, that when I die I shall be forever with the Lord, and with the angels in heaven. Oh, Benigna! what a delightful place heaven must be, with angels always about us, and we constantly near the Saviour, singing beautiful hymns, or listening to the seraphic sweetness of others. But I am so tired now-I believe I have talked too much-I feel so very strange," and almost immediately after saying this, Emily fainted away. 
                  Her mother and Benigna were very much alarmed, it being a new occurrence-they supposed her dying, and so did the nurse. The uncle and brother were fortunately near at hand-both were immediately summoned-the former directly applied restoratives. Yet long she remained in that death-like swoon, which Doctor Tracy attributed to her increasing debility, and a probable over-tasking of her feeble frame. He calmed the agitated feelings of the party, by assuring them that he did not apprehend any immediate danger, or any serious effect as the consequence of this seizure, provided she was kept as quiet as possible, and every excitement avoided. 
                  During this interval of anxious feeling, Benigna had her attention attracted to Frederick, who, with pale and haggard countenance, supported himself by one of the foot-posts of Emily's bed, intently gazing alternately at his suffering sister, his mother, Benigna, and vacancy. 
                  She knew how fond he was of his sister-that he almost idolized her. The creature of impulse, the kind and sympathetic Benigna, could not refrain from going to him; touching him gently on the arm, she said: 
                  "Be not so distressed, dear Frederick. You know your uncle thinks that Emily will soon be better again. And yet, if she does not, my brother, only imagine her happiness-she will enter the heaven she just now so sweetly anticipated. It was only a moment before, and as she spoke I noticed her countenance wore such an expression of unearthly sweetness, that methinks perhaps a vision of the unspeakable glories of heaven then passed before her enraptured sight. If this really happened, I wonder not that she became insensible to every earthly object-even to her dear mother's love and fond attentions." 
                  Frederick was weeping. 
                  "Grieve not thus, dear brother," she continued, mingling her tears with his-"indeed, you ought not, if you consider the happy condition of dear Emily. Think how blessed will be the change to her-from sickness and suffering to heaven and eternal enjoyment. Oh, let this comfort and console you, dear Frederick!" 
                  She had taken his hand as she spoke-he pressed it repeatedly-then whispered her to withdraw with him into an inner apartment, where he gently led her, and seated himself beside her. 
                  "Dear Frederick-my brother," murmured the unhappy young man, "say those words again, dearest Benigna." 
                  "Why?" asked the innocent girl. "Are you not my brother, dear Frederick? Have not your mother and Emily given you to me!" 
                  "Heaven's blessings rest on them for it; but say that you love me too, sweet girl; and with the same affection I bear towards you." 
                  "Certainly I do!" unhesitatingly replied the unsuspecting girl. "I dearly love you." 
                  "Love me!" he repeated-" do I hear aright! Do you really love me, my sweet Benigna?" 
                  "Yes, you must know I do! I could not help loving one so good and kind as you are." 
                  Just then, Benigna heard an inquiry for her. 
                  "I must go," she said. 
                  "Yet, one word more," said the impassioned young man, "you must promise always to love me!" 
                  "Would that make you happy, now?" 
                  He smiled, and nodded assent. 
                  "Yes, always!" answered the innocent girl, "for you know I told you, I cannot help it," she artlessly continued. "So let me go, dear brother, to Emily, for she wants me." 
                  Frederick here hastily pressed her to his heart, imprinting a kiss upon her cheek, immediately after which she left him. 
                  Benigna was not a little surprised at his manner, especially at his leave-taking; yet it made no particular impression upon her young mind, for, being still ignorant of the real meaning of what he had said to her, she did not suspect his intentions; nor that she had by her replies to his queries given him any encouragement to suppose she entertained any idea of marrying him. 
                  In fact, as Benigna Waldemar had, as yet, not thought of her own marriage, and knew of no other way of forming this connection but by the use of the "lot," it is not to be wondered at that she really did not at all comprehend the meaning of Frederick, and answered him as she did. 
                  Thus, having her conscience still unsullied by a stain on its spotless purity, she returned to the sick-room, and unembarrassed met the fond mother with not a cloud upon her heart, save that of anxiety for the beloved invalid, who was so feeble for several days afterward as entirely to absorb the thoughts of her friend. 
                  Emily, from this period, very perceptibly declined. Day by day she faded surely, and certainly. Her nights were so restless and uncomfortable, and she withal so feeble, that it became necessary to have watchers with her. Her mother, Benigna, the Doctor and Frederick alternately sat up with her, two at a time. Sometimes Sister Rosalie took her turn. 
                  Thus, more than a fortnight passed, when again she seemed better. It was one of those wonderful revivifications so common in wasting, lingering diseases, which often are the precursors of death-the last brightening up of the flickering lamp of life in the socket of its earthly case. 
                  Emily was so cheerful, and appeared so strong-had such a good appetite, that even the almost perished hopes of her mother began to put forth blossoms anew. But the sick girl herself indulged in no such fallacious expectations; probably she felt the death-worm still feeding upon her vitals-or perhaps, because of the pleasant dreams she was constantly having of heaven-or it might be, that even then she saw the commissioned angel who was sent to bear her spirit away to its home of rest and hope. 
                  But be that as it may, Emily was impressed with the presentiment of her young life being about to close. 
                  Besides, the season was very unfavorable for an invalid-the weather changeable-sometimes quite warm-then there was a cold storm, succeeded by several editions of the same kind of chilly temperature, which stripped the trees of their foliage, strewing the ground about them with leaves of many-varied hue. 
                  At length the storm ceased. It cleared off deliciously pleasant, and the sun smiled again upon the decaying world. 
                  Near the sunset of this lovely autumnal day, Emily had another fainting fit. It did not continue of as long duration as the preceding one, but it was attended with some alarming symptoms. 
                  Yet, notwithstanding, the succeeding night Emily passed more comfortably, and seemed to be considerably revived for several days after. 
                
                
                  CHAPTER XXXVI. 
                  IT is now the latter part of September-one of the months so particularly fatal to a consumptive invalid. 
                  About fifteen months before, the Tracys had returned to the Settlement, in the vain hope of prolonging the existence of the feeble and frail Emily, but instead, she came there to die, and we are now on the threshold of that solemn event. We have but a few more particulars to give concerning her, and then we must bid her a final farewell. I have said that she revived, but only for a short period-she soon became again much more feeble. 
                  Some months previously she had expressed the wish, in the event of her death, of Benigna having all that part of her wardrobe she could render available to herself; since then, from time to time, she had named other articles-among them a silver cup, a dessert spoon, her sick-chair, and some gold coin which had been presented on different occasions to Emily by her father. These gifts she now bestowed upon Benigna, taking the same opportunity, with her own thin, tremulous, and transparent hand, to remove from its depository a doubloon, which she requested her mother to give to Bishop Steinberg, as a remembrance from her. 
                  "And now-now, come closer to me, my dear sister. Kiss me, my kind Benigna! you love me, I know; then do make me a promise, will you? Dear mamma wishes it, so does dear Frederick, and uncle Doctor too. Promise me that you will not refuse it. Perhaps it is the last thing your sister Emily will ever ask of you." 
                  "What is it, dear Emily?" tenderly inquired Benigna. "Oh, I will grant it, I assure you, for there is nothing I can deny you." 
                  "God bless you, dear Benigna, for saying that; then you will take my place when I am dead and gone. You will let dear mamma have you for her daughter-then she and poor Frederick need not be so sorry that I went away so soon from them to heaven." 
                  Upon saying this, she took the unresisting hand of Benigna and placed it within that of her mother and brother. She clasped them together fondly in her own, smiled, then sweetly said: 
                  "I can die content now. Ever may you be together, my dear mamma, my brother, and my sister. Oh! my blessed comforter, my precious friend, how I thank you!" 
                  "But Emily, dear Emily! what is it you mean? tell me what you expect of me; what I am to do," exclaimed Benigna. 
                  But the dying girl heeded her not. 
                  "Poor mamma, dear mamma, and Frederick, do kiss me now. Oh! hold me tightly to your heart, ere I go away. Where is my dear uncle?" 
                  "I am here, my darling angel!" said he, tenderly embracing her. 
                  "Not yet-not yet an angel-but soon I hope to be among them-with the blessed company of the redeemed-singing their beautiful hymns. Don't you see them? Hark! don't you hear them-their delightful voices?-they are preparing for their worship, and I am wanted to join them;" and she sank back on her pillow, perfectly exhausted. 
                  The weeping group thought her pure spirit departing; but this did not prove to be the case. It was still to linger for a short space in its earthly tabernacle. 
                  After a restorative had been administered, and again frequently repeated, she partially revived; but the fluttering pulse, the clammy skin, the irregular breathing, with other kindred symptoms, showed her to be evidently sinking. She thereupon was in a stupor for several hours. 
                  About six o'clock in the morning she opened her eyes. 
                  "Mamma-uncle-Benigna-Frederick-keep near to me, all of you, until they come to take me away,"-looking around with almost a vacant gaze-then added, "I do not see them now-they are gone somewhere-but they will be back presently, Have hold of me, dear Benigna, till then." 
                  She reached forth one hand to her friend, while she gave the other to her mother. The cold damps of death were now settling upon her brow. 
                  "Do you think that she will soon leave us?" anxiously whispered Benigna to Doctor Tracy. 
                  The uncle felt the pulse of his expiring niece, made some other examinations, then replied: 
                  "She may possibly survive until the afternoon, but this is doubtful." 
                  "Then had we not better send for the Bishop and Sister Rosalie?" she inquired. 
                  Benigna made this query because of the usual practice among the Moravians of performing certain solemn services to the dying. The Doctor answered: 
                  "I think we had better wait a little longer. It is rather too early to disturb the old gentleman." 
                  Benigna paused but a brief space, ere she had beckoned the nurse to her, who almost immediately thereupon left the room. 
                  Emily then appeared to slumber for a short time; afterwards, commenced pitching about, catching at nothings, coughed, and was exceedingly restless-all the while panting for breath. 
                  Some nourishment was given, when Benigna asked: 
                  "Shall I read to you, dear Emily?" 
                  She faintly nodded assent-then whispered, "the 23d Psalm, and the 43d chapter of Isaiah." 
                  Benigna opened the Bible, and in a tremulous tone read: 
                  "The Lord is my Shepherd, I shall not want. He maketh me to lie down in green pastures: he leadeth me beside the still waters," etc., etc. 
                  This was Emily's favorite Psalm. Benigna then went on: "But now, saith the Lord which created thee, O Jacob, and He that formed thee, O Israel. Fear not, for I have redeemed thee, I have called thee by thy name-thou art mine. When thou passest through the waters, I will be with thee, and through the rivers they shall not overflow thee. When thou walkest through the fire, thou shalt not be burned; neither shall the flame kindle upon thee. For I am the Lord thy God, the Holy One of Israel, thy Saviour." 
                  When Benigna had finished this verse, the hand in hers relaxed its hold; this caused her to look up-which she had scarcely done when Mrs. Tracy shrieked out: 
                  "She is gone-my precious child is dead!" 
                  And there lay Emily, with the pallor of death upon her young face-that mysterious change had passed over her, and she was indeed dying. In vain they now tried to revive her. 
                  "Speak, my dear Emily, and tell me that you yet know your mother. See, it is her love that is encircling you!" and, as she said this, she raised her in her arms, pressed her to her throbbing heart, and wildly fondled her." And here, my darling lamb, is Frederick, your brother! Do look at us once more, my precious child!" 
                  The dying one, though fast sinking into the cold embrace of the destroyer, evidently yet retained perfect consciousness; and that fond heart of hers still yearned to respond to her mother's affection. She turned her face towards her-endeavored to speak-but utterance came not. 
                  "Oh! if you can neither speak nor look at us again, my beloved daughter, try to give me one of your own sweet smiles." 
                  A contortion of the muscles of the face about the mouth then took place, followed by a smile-and such a smile it was; first, with such an expression of pain-then changing its character to that of such indescribable sweetness, that methinks her angelic spirit could alone have placed it there. 
                  While all this painful scene was enacting, the Bishop, with his daughter, had entered the apartment, and at this moment his voice in prayer was heard-then Sister Rosalie joined him in singing a hymn to the departing spirit-next, this man of God approached the expiring girl, and spoke these words in a slow and impressive manner: 
                   
                  "My child, do you know you are about to die? that you will soon be in the presence of the Saviour and Redeemer, and are you happy in the prospect?" 
                  There was no answer to this question-but a movement of the lips as if to speak. 
                  The Bishop repeated the question-again she essayed to reply. 
                  "My daughter," he continued, "are you still resting, trustingly and hopefully, upon the Saviour?" 
                  The expiring young saint here opened her eyes-fixed them with a steady gaze upon the Bishop-made a violent effort-then distinctly answered, "I am." 
                  "Then let us give thanks to our dear Lord for this unspeakable goodness and mercy." 
                  And the good man thereupon breathed out a short, but fervent prayer-afterwards, placing his hand upon her head, he solemnly imparted to her the last blessing; thus commending her soul to her Maker and Redeemer. 
                  "The Lord bless thee, and keep thee-the Lord make his face to shine upon thee, and be gracious unto thee. The Lord lift up Ms countenance upon thee, and give thee peace-in the name of Jesus. Amen." 
                  Scarcely had the Bishop pronounced this benediction, when suddenly, with quite a strong voice, Emily exclaimed: 
                  "Yes-sweet it is, to rest upon his love-the valley and shadow of death-I fear no evil-for he is with me. They are coming-yes, they are here again-the beautiful angels-and I am going there with them-yes, oh! how delightful it is-heaven-mamma-joy-" then fell back in the arms of her mother, who had again just raised her-gasped a few times, and she was gone. 
                  A perfect stillness of some moments succeeded in that chamber of death, save the sobs and the moans of the sorrow-stricken bereaved. 
                  The Bishop, with his daughter, and Benigna, now fell on their knees, and for a while were engaged in speechless prayer-the silence at length being broken by the clear melodious voice of Sister Rosalie, singing in dirge-like strains, the following appropriate monody: 
                         
                           "Now rest in peace,- 
                           Dear sister, rest in peace: 
                           Our prayers when dying thee attended, 
                           Thou'st ended thy mortal life, and now always 
                           Beholdest Jesus face to face; 
                           The holy angels did convey 
                           Thy soul to realms of endless day, 
                           There bless thee, God the Father and the Son, 
                           Thee bless, the Holy Spirit, Three in One, 
                           Thou there ador'st the Lamb that sitteth on the throne. 
                           Then rest in peace, 
                           Dear Sister, rest in peace!" 
                        
                     
                   
                
                
                  CHAPTER XXXVII. 
                  ALTHOUGH this distressing event came not unexpectedly upon Mrs. Tracy, yet it almost overwhelmed her. The death of her husband had well nigh unsettled her intellect; but at the time the state of Emily's health was such as to cause great anxiety. It aroused the mother from the stupor of grief into which that providence had plunged her, and in concentrating her thoughts and feelings upon her suffering child, her attention had become so absorbed, that she appeared to have in a measure cast from her the burden of this great calamity. 
                  But when she saw, notwithstanding all the efforts of her love, her sickly blossom fade and perish, and lie a cold inanimate corpse before her, it opened afresh the floodgates of her grief. It brought back vividly to that affectionate heart the remembrance of this severe affliction, which added a poignancy to her present bereavement; and her feelings now were torn with anguish on account of her husband's death, as well as that of their darling child. 
                  Benigna now hovered about her with tearful eyes; pale, and almost silent, ever and anon putting her loving arms around Mrs. Tracy, and giving her one of her gentle kisses; and the sorrow-stricken mother would return her affectionate endearments, press her tightly to her throbbing heart and call her her own dear daughter. Indeed, her presence seemed so indispensable to the afflicted lady, that no opposition was made to her remaining until after the funeral. 
                  "My blessed comforter, best friend of my beloved Emily-dearer now than ever for the kindness rendered-the cherished companion of my future life-ray loved one forever," she softly whispered, as the tears coursed down her cheek, and fell upon the hand of the weeping and bewildered girl. "Oh! my precious Benigna; be ever to me my own dear child-my companion through life, my sweet guide to heaven. Always be near me, the guardian angel of my home, the soothing minister of consolation to my widowed and bereaved heart." 
                  Benigna replied only with her tears, for her heart so overflowed with emotion she could not speak. In truth this was the severest affliction her young heart had ever known; for although she had mourned over the loss of several of her kindred, together with those of her foster-parents, there was a difference of feeling in this case. In every one of these instances, the individuals were much older than herself, neither had she been with either of them when they died, except her grandmother; and as this occurred when so very young, she scarcely realized the event. 
                  But in Emily Tracy she lost the most beloved juvenile companion she ever had. Their friendship proved of the most endearing character. This, added to the whole circumstances of her long illness and death as connected with herself, was of such intense interest, and fraught with such singularly exciting events, that no marvel if they produced powerful feelings and influences upon her mind. 
                  She had been the constant associate of that beloved one for many months-watching the breaking down of her earthly house, the gradual tearing up and loosening of her clayey tenement; meanwhile directing her in her journey to the tomb, guiding her willing spirit heavenward, and going with her, as it were, even to the very entrance of the valley of the shadow of death. 
                  All this had been done, and that, too, in companionship with the fell destroyer. It was the first time in her young life she had been thus painfully situated, and it excited all the powerful susceptibilities of her nature. 
                  Besides this, was the warm friendship of all the family, to each of whom Benigna felt that it needed not the ties of blood to form the strongest and most enduring affection; for the love she bore them was truly as great as if they really were thus connected. The deepness of her sorrow at this affliction evinced this; for she could not have grieved more if Emily had indeed been a dearly beloved sister, as well as a friend; and in the sequel it will be seen, was only equalled in its intensity by the suffering she experienced when called upon to separate herself forever from the other members of that fondly loved and highly valued family circle. 
                  But we have our foreshadowings of the future, a vague presentiment of what is to happen to us. Thus it was with Benigna Waldemar. She felt a sinking of the heart-a sadness of the spirits, accompanied by a desolation of feeling, which she feared portended some new and sad calamity. It seemed as if a dark shadow lay before her, while a heavy cloud hung over her devoted head. It filled her with painful apprehensions, and caused her to feel very anxious and troubled. 
                  As is the usual custom among the Moravians, the musicians announced from the church steeple that a spirit had left its earthly tabernacle, while the direction in which they pointed their instruments, together with the requiem they sent forth from thence, told where and upon whom the solemn visitation had fallen. Only one person had died in the Settlement this year; and as death was of such an unfrequent occurrence, the inhabitants the more sensibly realized its presence. A general quiet prevailed, while seriousness sat upon the countenances of all. 
                  Next came the preparations for the burial-for, by Emily's especial wish, her remains were to rest permanently in the cemetery of the place. A spot was selected and purchased-not among the strangers' allotted portion, but in the row designed by the community for the young girls of her own age-a suggestion of Benigna's, and acceded to, because her departed friend had by Baptism and the Lord's Supper, become a received member of the Society. 
                  After a consultation with the Bishop and his daughter, and several others, the funeral arrangements were made; Sister Rosalie making it her duty to superintend the preparation of the body for the grave. She attended to the shrouding and coffining of the dear remains; then took her turn with some of the other Sisters, in watching beside it until the day of interment. 
                  She gathered flowers, too, to deck the funeral bier; but had some difficulty to procure them at this season of the year, as there were no hot-houses, or conservatories, in the Settlement, or scarcely any pot-plants, but her own. Yet she managed to get a few. These were tastefully arranged about the coffin; while in the clasped hand of Emily she placed a half-blown white rosebud-a significant emblem of her youth, purity and innocence. 
                  Then came the parting embrace between the living and the dead, ere the remains were borne to their first receiving tomb, the Dead House of the place. 
                  Benigna was seated near the head of the coffin, gazing upon the calm, placid features of her dear deceased friend, when the door of the apartment opened, and Doctor Tracy, with Frederick, entered, supporting between them the widowed, and now again bereaved mother. 
                  They brought her directly opposite to where Benigna sat. There she leaned weeping over the lifeless body of the daughter she had so fondly loved-so long anxiously watched, and faithfully nursed; and as she imprinted the last kiss upon her marble brow, and received back naught but the icy chillness of death, her heart was wrung with the painful consciousness of her bereavement, and riven with grief. 
                   
                  The uncle and brother next took their final farewell of the fond object of so much love and care, followed by Benigna, who, with gushing tears rolling down her cheeks, pressed her burning lips upon those of her Sister-friend; and as she did so, that dark shadow again passed before her-the same feeling of desolation and loneliness of which I have spoken, and she wept the more in consequence. Frederick left his mother's side, and hastened to her. 
                  "I am all alone again in the wide world," sobbed she. "Father and Mother Neisser, and Emily, all are gone." 
                  "Say not so, dearest Benigna," he softly replied; "you know that there are hearts which love you as well as they did; you have still another father and mother; besides, remember you have me," he whispered; then gently taking her hand, he led her to his mother, and, hearing advancing footsteps, they all withdrew together from the room, surmising rightly that the bearers had come to take away the dead. 
                  It was on the first day of October, and very delightful weather, the day appointed for the funeral of Emily Tracy. It took place in the morning. As usual, the great bell tolled to summon the people to attend. Then group after group were seen, wending their way to church, all in perfect silence. Among them came the bereaved family, dressed in the deepest mourning. 
                  Presently the solemn services began by singing a funeral hymn; next the settled clergyman of the congregation delivered a short discourse in German; afterwards Bishop Steinberg gave a brief biographical sketch of the deceased in English. This over, they sang another hymn, also in German; during the last singing, the musicians and bearers withdrew. At the same moment there was a movement among the Sisterhood, and eight young girls of about the age of the deceased, preceded by their elderess, slowly followed them. 
                  The whole congregation soon after were standing before the corpse house, directly in front of which the coffin had been placed. The eight young girls were arranged on either side, all dressed alike, in white dresses, provided by the family. The mother, with the brother and uncle, immediately in the rear. Then came Benigna Waldemar, leaning on the arm of Sister Rosalie. She, too, was habited in white, in the beautiful cambric presented her by Mrs. Tracy, and with gloves and ribbons to match. 
                  All the Sisterhood, as usual, wore no hats, but had caps on, and every one, save Benigna, had theirs fastened with the badge of their maidenhood-a delicate shade of pink ribbon or cherry color. Hers was white-the only emblem of mourning permitted her to put on for the occasion. 
                  After the assembly were properly disposed of, the following English verses were sung:- 
                         
                           "How sweetly this our sister sleeps, 
                           Enjoying endless peace, 
                           The grave wherein her Saviour lay 
                           Will be her resting place. 
                           Nought can disturb this heir of life, 
                           All worldly cares are fled; 
                           To be with Christ was her desire, 
                           And she's now perfected," 
                        
                     
                   
                  This finished, the procession walked slowly to the burying-ground, headed by the musicians and the clergymen; the former blowing forth the customary funeral dirge. 
                  Arrived at the destined spot, the congregation took their places, according to their banded classes-the males and females being separate. And thus they stood around the grave of Emily Tracy, where they continued the remainder of the burial service, of which a more particular description I purpose giving elsewhere. I shall mention only the hymn sung, as it was English, a translation from the German:- 
                         
                           "Let us this sister's corpse inter, 
                           While we God's word in memory bear, 
                           That it shall rise again one day, 
                           No more be subject to decay. 
                           It is but earth, from earth it came, 
                           And now returns into the same; 
                            
                           But under earth no more will lie, 
                           When God's loud trump shall fill the sky. 
                           The soul doth ever live with God, 
                           With grace already here endowed, 
                           And from all blot and stain of sin, 
                           By Jesus' precious blood made clean. 
                           Our sister's sorrows, griefs and woes 
                           Are now come to a happy close; 
                           Who since she did Christ's yoke embrace, 
                           Dead in the body, lives always. 
                           This body leave its rest to take, 
                           We to our stations will go back, 
                           And serve our Lord with cheerful heart, 
                           For soon we, too, shall hence depart. 
                           Christ our Redeemer will us aid. 
                           Since by his blood he us hath freed 
                           From Satan's power and endless pain, 
                           To him all honor doth pertain." 
                        
                     
                   
                  After this was sung, a prayer offered, and a benediction pronounced, the solemn services were over. The congregation then dispersed; all left, save the band, playing their last requiem, and the bereaved family, with Benigna, the Bishop, and sister Rosalie. These tarried until the sexton had filled up the grave, and the musicians departed, when in like manner they slowly quitted this receptacle of the dead. 
                  Benigna was still with her friends; but she had received permission to continue with them only for a definite portion of the day, being expected to return to her former home in the Sisters' House. 
                
                
                  CHAPTER XXXVIII. 
                  IT was late in the afternoon of the same day;-the moment had come when Benigna Waldemar had to leave her friends. 
                  "Must you go, my dear child?" said the Doctor; "cannot you at once remain with us?" 
                   
                  "Indeed I dare not I" she answered; "for I Lave positive orders to be in my room in the Sister's House this evening." 
                  "But you know, my dear, you will be no longer under their control; you are now our child." 
                  "Oh, my dear sir! pray, what do you mean?" replied Benigna, very much excited. "Is it your intention to take me with you?" 
                  "This is certainly our wish," said he. "I thought it was perfectly understood between us that you were to become our daughter. Surely you so promised Emily?" 
                  Benigria looked embarrassed and distressed-then burst into tears. 
                  "What is the matter, my child-why are you so troubled?" 
                  "Oh dear, what shall I do! I did not know she meant that, and yet--" 
                  "And yet what, my dear?" 
                  "Why, I love you all so very dearly, that it would make me very happy to be always with you." 
                  "And even thus we love you, my child. Mrs. Tracy and myself both bear you so much affection that we jointly claim you as our property. She is to be your mamma, and I your papa. You do not object to this, my dear, do you?" 
                  "Oh, no! certainly not!-but I cannot, indeed I cannot!" she sobbed out. "Oh! do not tempt me to do this. I promised not to do aught to displease them. Oh! indeed there must be some mistake!" 
                  "No mistake at all, my dear; but you are confused and bewildered." 
                  "I believe I am; but really you must have misunderstood me, for I dared not do such a thing without leave." 
                  The Doctor, very much surprised, continued; 
                  "But would you not like to come and live with us, Benigna-to be our daughter, to share our love and hearts, even as Frederick? You would be in a home of plenty and elegance, surrounded by every luxury as well as comfort, where our constant study would be to make you as happy as possible." 
                  "Oh, I know that! and so dearly do I love you all that I need not these things to make me happier. But dear, good Doctor, did you and Mrs. Tracy indeed intend to do all this for me, to take me as your own, and give me the kindly protection of parental love?" 
                  "We do, my dear child; and with you and Frederick, his mother and I anticipate to spend the remainder of our days, and at our death to leave you joint-possessors of our united fortunes." 
                  Benigna, to whom the idea of wealth was entirely new, was really so unacquainted with the importance generally attached to it, as not to be dazzled by its prospective acquisition-nor did it influence her decision in the least. She replied: 
                  "Frederick may have it all-that is not what I want-but a father, mother, and kind brother. I have none of these blessings, and my heart craves them more than any other. And just the father, mother, and brother I so earnestly desire. But let me shut my eyes and ears against this delightful proposal, lest the temptation become too great for my poor weak nature to resist, or I become miserably unhappy; for I know I cannot accept your kind, generous offer." 
                  "Then I understand," said the Doctor, "you object to the proposition, only because you believe the permission will not be granted. But I cannot imagine, my child, what right any of the people here have to interfere in the matter. You are not bound to them in any way, are you?" 
                  "Oh, yes I was," she answered; "when I first came to the Settlement, when you were all here before." 
                  "How?" 
                  "By being adopted into the Society; and I have ever since been trained to the rules and regulations of the Church. I have promised obedience to all of their rules, and do not feel at liberty to take any step without consulting them." 
                  "But would the Church not cancel any such arrangement, provided it was for your benefit?" 
                  "Indeed, I do not know!" 
                  "Then I will myself try them by asking the question; so cheer up, my daughter;" saying which he kissed her affectionately. 
                   
                  "Frederick, dear brother, good-bye," said Benigna a moment or two afterwards; "I am sorry I have now to leave you." 
                  "Yet you will return to us to-morrow. You know we expect to start in the afternoon for Philadelphia." 
                  "I will try to come in the morning; but where is your dear mother?" 
                  "In her own room." He then accompanied her to the door. 
                  "My dear child," said Mrs. Tracy, tenderly embracing Benigna, "would that you could now stay with me altogether; but I suppose you have your own little arrangements to make previous to our going. But let me see you as early as possible to-morrow." 
                  Benigna had not the heart to enter into any explanation with her, yet she could not refrain from tears, which immediately started some from the eyes of her friend. 
                  "See, you have made me weep again, my dear! Oh, this death! my Emily-my dear Emily;" then her tears flowed fast. 
                  "But our dear Emily is so happy in heaven. Oh! let us no longer grieve for her, but dry up our tears, and rather rejoice that she is safe with her Heavenly Father," said Benigna. 
                  Mrs. Tracy pressed her hand silently-then fondly kissed her-again repeated: 
                  "Be sure, my love, to be here as soon as you can to-morrow; we may go as early as mid-day." 
                  Benigna merely bowed-she could not utter any reply-she saw again that dark shadow before her, and felt the cloud would soon break. 
                  When passing out of the room she encountered Frederick-he followed her. He noticed that Benigna looked distressed and troubled. He tenderly inquired the cause. 
                  "Say nothing to your mother, dear Frederick, but I am very unhappy. I feel so desolate and wretched, I know not what to do. I am sure that a heavy calamity is before me;" and she wept incessantly as she spoke. 
                  "You are nervous, dear girl," he answered;" but do not encourage such sad forebodings." 
                   
                  "I am afraid something is going to happen to prevent our future intercourse, and that when we separate, we never meet again." 
                  "But surely you go with us?" 
                  Benigna answered not for a space; then said: 
                  "I should indeed be glad, to do so! but I fear not; and then who knows if we shall ever meet again?" 
                  "Say not so, dearest Benigna!-believe it to be only an idle fancy; for are you not ours by every sacred tie? Is not the promise to the dead binding? Besides, can I not urge a nearer and dearer claim? Are you not mine, my own sweet Benigna? mine-now and forever-are you not my best beloved, my promised bride?" 
                  "Bride!" said the innocent girl, involuntarily shrinking from him in alarm; "what mean you by saying this to me?" 
                  "That I love you! and to remind you that you told me you returned my affection!" 
                  "Returned your affection, dear Frederick!-explain yourself, for I do not understand you!" 
                  She appeared very much agitated. Frederick looked at her, both surprised and perplexed. 
                  "Calm yourself, dearest Benigna," said he, gently taking her hand, "and listen to me." 
                  He now recalled to her remembrance the conversation between them on the memorable evening when Emily had her first fainting fit. 
                  "You know then I told you how dear you were to me; and you in return gave me the happy assurance of your love." 
                  He then explained to her the nature of his feelings towards her, being far different from the attachment of a brother," and such the kind of love he wished reciprocated by her. 
                  "And you have loved me thus, dear girl! your own sweet lips have told me so; then why this confusion and distress?" 
                  While Frederick had been speaking, the truth had gradually broken in upon the innocent mind of Benigna. She was agitated with innumerable thoughts and feelings, new and strange. A mist seemed to fall from her heart and eyes; and in the secret depths of the former there was a struggle; and the strife which took place there, no human eye or ear will ever know. At length she wildly exclaimed: 
                  "I see it all now, dear Frederick! Oh, why was I so blind! Have pity upon me, your poor Benigna!-my dear brother, let me tell you all, yes all! I will bare my whole heart before you." 
                  He drew her closely to him-spoke soothingly-though himself powerfully agitated. 
                  "Not now, dearest Benigna, but when you are more calm." 
                  "It must be done now!" she answered. "Listen to me, my good, kind Frederick! My love to all your family is greater than I can express. Suffice it to say, there is none in the wide world so dear to my very soul; but even: as I love your mother, so do I love you. And dear will you all ever be to this poor aching heart of mine. But oh, Frederick, my brother, it is the only love I can give you, since any other would be a grievous sin in a daughter of our Church. Oh, I have pained you, my generous and noble-hearted Frederick! But you will forgive me, my brother, won't you?" 
                  Frederick could not reply. He looked at the sweet countenance of his beloved one; then pressed her more closely to his heart, while their scalding tears mingled on the cheeks of both. The feelings of the twain were painful in the extreme. Presently Benigna threw herself upon her knees-prayed for Divine strength-then, ere the astonished Frederick was aware of it, rushed from his presence. 
                  Benigna arrived at the Sisters' House in a state less difficult to imagine than describe. She was still pale and terribly excited; her mind agitated with anxious apprehensions. She was almost overwhelmed with the declaration of Frederick's attachment. The knowledge of the nature of the sentiments he entertained towards her, while it opened her eyes to the truth, caused her to realize the painfulness of the position in which it placed her. It made her look into her own heart, probe its feelings, and study its secret yearnings. We will not undertake to say what she discovered there; perhaps she as yet scarcely knew herself. But as memory brought before her all the scenes and events they had shared together-their mutual joys and sorrows, the warm love of the dead, as well as that of the living, which so fondly encircled them both, together with the generous and devoted affection of the noble hearted brother for herself-she wept with very agony and bitterness of grief. Yet she was so young and inexperienced; so little acquainted with the heart's real necessities, its earnest longings; was such a stranger to the hidden springs of its various emotions, that she could neither fathom nor understand the depth of their character. 
                  She could not have defined the thoughts and feelings which now crowded upon her pure mind, because the innocent girl herself did not comprehend them. Yet, notwithstanding, she wished them told, to be relieved of the burden of their weight, which really oppressed her. 
                  Besides, Benigna knew it to be her imperative duty to inform her elderess of the whole of the perplexing and trying situation in which she was now placed. Hence she directly sought her, but did not find the good lady at home. Next she thought of Sister Rosalie. Unfortunately she too was absent. Both had gone together, almost directly after the funeral of Emily, on some important business to a neighboring settlement, where they expected to be detained for several days. She had no one else in the Establishment whom she knew sufficiently well to confide in; and not any person in the place besides, except Bishop Steinberg-and to him she felt a sensitive delicacy in telling him any of the circumstances-therefore she concealed all within the repository of her own faithful heart. 
                  The Sisterhood noticed her haggard and distressed countenance, and, supposing it caused alone by grief for the dead, endeavored to console her; but not touching the right chord for sympathy, only added to her wretchedness. 
                  She retired supperless to bed-sick, sad, with an incalculable load of sorrow depressing her spirits, and rendering her feelings painfully distressing. This increased, the more she reflected upon her unhappy condition. 
                  It was not only the anticipation of the breaking up of the tender friendship, the severing of those blissful ties which connected her to this dearly beloved family, which so painfully affected her, but the impression that some parts of her conduct might be considered censurable. This, to the pure-minded, ingenuous, conscientious, highly sensitive, and tender-hearted Benigna Waldemar, was exceedingly trying. She scarcely slept that night-the watchers finding her almost every hour on her knees, engaged in silent prayer and weeping. 
                  In the meanwhile the Doctor, agreeably to promise, had called upon the Bishop in reference to the adoption of Benigna. The venerable old gentleman was considerably startled at the proposition. He manifested some excitement, while he requested some further explanations. 
                  "Mrs. Tracy and I," continued the Doctor, "have long coveted the possession of this sweet girl as our own; more particularly since she perceived that her daughter could not live. And the hope of this wish being realized, I believe, enabled the mother to bear up as she has done under this great affliction. Indeed, poor Emily herself so strongly desired it, that, not long before her death, she earnestly made the same request of Benigna. And as she has no relations here, but is a lone orphan, I presume there will be no objection to our taking her with us. We intend to act towards her exactly as if she was our own child, and she will be handsomely provided for at our death." 
                  "You certainly present strong inducements in a worldly point of view, for our willing acceptance of your generous offer, for which I thank you," replied the Bishop; "but pray, have you said anything to the dear child on the subject?" 
                  "I have." 
                  "I am very sorry for this," he answered; "yet perhaps it was best. How did she bear the proposition?" 
                  "It excited her considerably; but she is very passive and submissive, having no will of her own to express her desires in relation tion to it; though I am confident she would be both pleased and satisfied with such an arrangement." 
                  The Bishop looked grave and thoughtful. "Your are mistaken, my dear Sir," said the venerable man, "in supposing our Sister Benigna is desolate and friendless. She is not without relations here, nor is she an orphan. She has numerous brothers and sisters, besides fathers and mothers, in the church, who are all deeply interested in her. She is a much loved member of our family-is indeed a precious lamb of our fold, and requires such tender care, that no wing of protection should be extended over her, except it was under the special favor of our dear Lord." 
                  "But we will not interfere at all with her religious sentiments. We live very near Philadelphia, and she can constantly attend the Moravian Church there if she desires." 
                  "Yet she would enter the world and be exposed to its fascinating influence-then lose her beautiful simplicity of character, and perhaps degenerate into a mere worldling; or, at best, be but a lukewarm Christian." 
                  "Do not have such fearful apprehensions concerning her, my good Bishop; her piety is her greatest charm to us, and I promise you, nothing shall be said or done to mar the beauty of its character." 
                  "But should she leave here, she would probably marry out of our connection, and this would destroy her church membership with us," said the Bishop, looking keenly at the Doctor. 
                  "What is the reason of this, my friend? I should suppose such an event need not make any difference at all." 
                  "It certainly would," he quickly replied. "In the first place, the manner of marrying in the world is entirely different from ours-besides, we find so many impediments in the way of a continued connection, that we have been obliged to adopt this regulation; yet we are far from regarding that union of heart as dissolved which connects us with such persons, when they are one with us in spirit." 
                  "But suppose, my dear Sir, that such an individual, after marriage riage, should wish to renew their church membership-would you refuse the request?" 
                  "Why, no! though generally we do not consider it desirable, since the oversight of such a person, and of the children, should there be any, would be impracticable, not to mention other difficulties, unless both the parties become members of the Church." 
                  "But to return to Benigna. What am I to understand in reference to her? Will you not consent to our wishes?" inquired the Doctor. 
                  "I cannot make myself responsible for such an act," the Bishop replied; "neither is it optional for me to decide so important a question. It rests for our Conference, and upon herself. I shall have to lay the matter before them, ere I can answer you." 
                  "What time will all this occupy?" 
                  "It is impossible for me to say, as her elderess is not at home, and it is somewhat uncertain when she will return." 
                  The Doctor looked at him inquiringly. The Bishop continued: 
                  "My dear Sir, all events and circumstances in life are under the direction and leadings of our dear Lord. We believe this implicitly." 
                  "And so do I," responded the Doctor; "and the great chain of circumstances and events which influence our lives, is linked in with the designs of a superintending Providence." 
                  "Thus far we are agreed," said the Bishop; "but we wish to know these leadings, while we earnestly desire heavenly guidance; hence, in every matter concerning us, at all important, we humbly raise our hearts to Heaven, and inquire, 'Lord, what wouldst thou have me do?'-then we seek to ascertain His holy will by the use of 'the lot.' And this has been the blessed means of settling many an embarrassing question. To a decision of this kind we must submit this proposition regarding our Sister Benigna. But her elderess should see her first, to have some conversation with her upon the subject; for, ere we use it, she must be prepared to have full confidence-to yield voluntary submission and entire acquiescence in its decision, even although it may be adverse to her own wishes." 
                  "This determination, I suppose, is unalterable?" said the Doctor. 
                  "It is." 
                  "And if that decision should be in our favor, you will then willingly and cheerfully give her up to us?" 
                  "Yes-certainly; provided she herself desires it; but we must not, in the interval, endeavor to influence her." 
                  "You will, however, permit her, in the meanwhile, to visit us?" 
                  The Bishop hesitated a moment-then agreed to this arrangement. 
                
                
                  CHAPTER XXXIX. 
                  THE succeeding morning found Mrs. Tracy quite indisposed. She had slept scarcely any during the night. She now painfully realized her bereavement to its fullest extent-tine severity of the blows inflicted upon her, that of being a widow, and almost childless. She could think of nothing else for some moments-afterwards over the memories of the past, as connected with her beloved dead. 
                  They came before her with all the vividness of a retentive memory, aided by strong affection. Alternately, she thought of her fond and devoted husband, and their affectionate and darling child-of that noble and manly form which had won her youthful heart-of their young, fair, and innocent daughter-the one cut down in the very prime of life and usefulness, the other in the spring-time of existence, just as the beautiful bud of childhood was expanding into the blossom of early maturity. No marvel if the recollection of these blighted hopes, these perished blessings, should force the scalding tears down her cheeks, and that for a time she abandoned herself to her grief, and in consequence became feverish and really ill. 
                   
                  The absence, too, of Benigna she sensibly felt; and, as her mind rested upon her, it seemed as if a ray of sunshine broke through the gloom of her sorrows; and oh! what a bright vision of the future presented itself in that darkness-for the Doctor had not yet informed her of the result of his conversation with the Bishop. Yet her condition on the morrow was such that, if no other reason existed, their departure from the Settlement must be postponed. 
                  But hours passed by, and yet Benigna came not; The Doctor, in the interval, told his sister and nephew the substance of his conversation with the Bishop in reference to their proposition. It excited them both considerably; and the views entertained by the venerable man upon the subject, together with the novel course purposed to be pursued in order to settle this question. All were hopeful, however, that "the lot" would be propitious to their wishes. 
                  "I am glad," said Frederick, "that there is no prohibition to keep her away from us until that time. Do, uncle, manage to get her here as soon as you can, will you?" 
                  The Doctor thereupon directed his steps to the Sisters' House-but the elderess being from home, his message was not delivered to Benigna until endorsed by permission from the Bishop. 
                  A short space subsequently, Benigna appeared before him, pale, and with swollen eyes. She looked embarrassed; and there was a peculiar character in her sad smile, also in the tones of her voice. She seemed very unhappy, and oppressed, apparently, with some grievous burden. Nor did she at all brighten, until clasped in the fond maternal arms of Mrs. Tracy, listening to her loving words of endearment; although they could not but ultimately add to the weight of her troubled mind. 
                  "You do not appear well, my child," she tenderly remarked. 
                  "I have, not slept much last night," Benigna replied. 
                  "Neither did I; therefore, my love, put your head upon the pillow beside me, and let us try to get a comfortable nap." 
                  Benigna complied, and Mrs. Tracy soon slumbered; but a long interval elapsed ere she could-her mind being too busy and active with painful thoughts, her feelings too powerfully excited. At length, however, her senses yielded to forgetfulness; she sunk into a heavy sleep. 
                  Mrs. Tracy awakened not for several hours, and then was quite refreshed. Her eyes immediately rested upon Benigna, who now suffered with a violent headache. 
                  "How very ill you look, my dear child," said she; "I fear you are suffering from your devotedness to me and mine, and that our present trial is too much for your affectionate heart." 
                  Benigna's only reply to this was tears. Mrs. Tracy, in like manner, wept. 
                  "But this must not be," continued she; "I cannot bear to see you so unhappy. Tell me, my dear, what can I do to comfort you?" 
                  "Nothing," answered Benigna-" nothing I know of, my dearest friend, but to promise me that you will never think me ungrateful, and always love me." 
                  "Think you ungrateful, or ever cease to love you! It is impossible for either of these to be the case; but what has put such an idea in your head, my child?" 
                  "Oh, I cannot tell! but I am so wretched!" and she burst into tears. 
                  "Perhaps I understand the cause; but do not distress yourself about that, but believe that the whole affair will turn out just as we desire." 
                  Benigna looked inquiringly. 
                  "I am very sanguine of this," continued Mrs. Tracy, "because the whole chain of events throughout, I think, plainly indicate that it is to be so." 
                  Benigna wonderingly listened. 
                  "I suppose you are aware that my brother has made the proposition to the Bishop, and heard his reply to it?" 
                  Benigna started-" What?-when?" she nervously asked. 
                  "Oh, for adopting you as our daughter. For this purpose, he had an interview with him last evening. I thought you were acquainted with the circumstances." 
                   
                  "Oh, no, I am not! Pray what did he say?" Mrs. Tracy hereupon gave Benigna a brief account of this visit. She then observed: 
                  "I think it is a very strange way to decide this question; but, as I told you, my love, I have no fears as to the result; for I confidently believe that the same kind Providence which directed our first acquaintance, will so overrule events as to prevent our separation." 
                  "Do you really believe so, my dear friend?" asked Benigna. 
                  "I certainly, firmly do! We have always, my dear child, been deeply interested in you-and were particularly partial to you; and when I consider what a rich blessing you would be to us in the future, the mutual advantage it would be to both parties, I cannot doubt God's goodness so much, as to suppose that such will be the case." 
                  "A gleam of sunshine seemed, suddenly upon this, to pass athwart the horizon of the lovely orphan; even through the dark cloud which still hung so fearfully over her. She threw her arms fondly around Mrs. Tracy, and as they tenderly embraced each other, said- 
                  "Well, let us fancy it will be so; it is so delightful!-and you to be my dear mother; besides, there is good, kind Doctor Tracy,-what must I call him-uncle, or father?" she continued, again lovingly kissing her beloved maternal friend. 
                  "We mean both equally to adopt you, my child; he loves you as a parent, and wishes to be regarded as such. But have you no curiosity to know something of the house where you would live, and how you would be situated?" 
                  "Why, yes!-but perhaps I had better wait until I am sure of going there; because if I am, after all, disappointed, I should only feel the worse for it." 
                  The Doctor had entered the room as Benigna was saying this. 
                  "Do not let us anticipate such a misfortune," said he, smiling, "but indulge in a contrary idea." 
                  "But yet, dear uncle, father, it will not do to be too sure, you know; besides, it matters very little to me where I am, or how I live provided I am with you and dear Mother Tracy-and you both always love me." 
                  "You are a dear, affectionate girl," replied Mrs. Tracy, tenderly embracing her. "But where is Frederick, my dear boy?" 
                  "Here, mamma," quickly answered the young man, who was seated in the inner apartment I have mentioned, in an abstracted, melancholy mood. 
                  "Come hither, my son, seat yourself by me-there, close by Benigna," 
                  Frederick advanced, and mechanically did as she requested. Then, putting his hand into that of the young girl, she added- 
                  "You must always love each other; and may God bless you, my dear children." 
                  Both were painfully embarrassed, and very much overcome; while the Doctor whistled and left the room. 
                  To the relief of the twain, fortunately, immediately after this a letter was brought in to Benigna from her friend Elsie, which directly changed the conversation. It was the first she had received from her since the one which came during her illness, now nearly eighteen months ago, and it gave her very great pleasure. It seems she had written another, as this was the second letter she had sent from the date of the last. Elsie wrote in her usual pleasant manner. She appeared perfectly happy, in prosperous circumstances, and was the mother of three fine children, two sons and an infant daughter. 
                  The rest of the day passed without any other external event occurring to be recorded-yet fraught with so much of real enjoyment in the interchange of kindly and affectionate sympathies, that no marvel if in the youthful and loving heart of Benigna Waldemar, this period of her life should ever be garnered in her memory as among the most delightful and endearing hours of intercourse, as invested with feelings and recollections of more than ordinary exciting interest. 
                  And sweet was the sleep of that lovely innocent that night, beside the mother who so dearly loved her; nor did either of them reck the war of the elements without, for it was storming fearfully; nor did they dream of the tempest so soon to fall upon their own devoted heads. 
                  The following day it continued to rain, and it came down in torrents almost incessantly until the afternoon, when it abated, and for a short space the sun shone. 
                  During this interval a message came from Bishop Steinberg, requesting immediately to see Benigna. She entertained a great veneration and respect for this excellent man, who exercised considerable influence over her. 
                  She found the old gentleman in his study, with several of his Brethren and Sisters. They all looked very solemn and grave, but gave her a very friendly reception. They were engaged in a conversation in German, a language Benigna now perfectly understood. The Bishop asked her some common-place questions of the Tracy family, then spoke. of their proposition to adopt her-ending by inquiring whether it would please her. 
                  Her answer was very simple and touching: 
                  "Emily gave them to me when she was dying, to be my father, mother, and brother, and I do love them all very dearly." 
                  "But, my dear child," answered the Bishop," you know you were already adopted by us when you were a little girl, soon after you escaped being butchered by the Indians." 
                  "Yes-I remember; but they will be my father and mother, and dear Frederick my brother-and I should be very happy to have such good and kind relations." 
                  "Then you would be quite willing and pleased to leave us?" 
                  "Oh, no!" replied the affectionate girl. "I should be very sorry to go away from you; indeed I think it would make me quite unhappy;" tears meanwhile gathering in her eyes. 
                  "But you know, my child, if we resign you to them, you certainly will not continue to remain here." 
                  He then explained to her what her probable condition would be-a life of ease and luxury, in exchange for her simple, though independent condition. 
                  "It is a very tempting offer, I grant you, my dear child, in a worldly point of view-for I believe they are very rich people, and besides are generous and amiable; yet notwithstanding this, perhaps fraught with a great deal of peril to your precious soul; for there may be shoals and quicksands beneath this gilded surface. Indeed, these are always to be found amid the gay thoroughfares of fashionable society, and they often lead their votaries to eternal perdition." 
                  Benigna shuddered. 
                  "But, dear Brother Steinberg, surely I need not participate in such follies and vanities? Indeed I do not like them, or ever should." 
                  "You may be mistaken about that. Perhaps you do not know yourself sufficiently to warrant such confidence in yourself. It is better never to be tried, my child, than to have to resist temptation. But yet it may be the will of our Lord for you to go with these kind friends of yours. He may have raised them up for the express purpose of taking care of you in the future. I was, I confess, at first very adverse to this proposition-but on considering it well before our Lord in prayer, I came to the conclusion that such might be the case. Therefore, my dear child, we purpose to submit it to him by the 'lot,' entreating him to direct us according to his holy will and pleasure. We mean to do this as soon as Sister Melville returns. Yet ere we make use of this blessed means to ascertain the will of our Lord, you must, my Sister, be perfectly willing to acquiesce in its decision; although it may not coincide with your own wishes-yea, even should it interfere with your dearest feelings." 
                  The Bishop said this very emphatically-looking earnestly at the poor girl, as if he wished to read her very soul. 
                  The conscious Benigna blushed, trembled violently, at the same moment burst into tears. 
                  "Our Lord," continued Bishop Steinberg, "asks nothing of us but what we can do. He demands no sacrifices of us but what we are able to make, neither does he require more of us-than we can perform. Therefore, if we are his dutiful children, we should not only seek to know his will, but earnestly strive to do it. I trust, my dear Benigna, that you belong to this class of his family, and are prepared to render him the submissive obedience due to a tender and kind father, who has purchased you with his own precious blood, and brought you into his congregation-has hitherto carefully watched over you, and provided for all your wants and necessities. Am I right, my dear Sister, in supposing that you value this high calling, and wish to be his faithful and true handmaid?" 
                  "I hope so," she meekly replied. 
                  "And are you perfectly willing, with childlike faith and resignation, to submit to the leadings of our Lord in the disposal of yourself at this time?" 
                  Benigna now was excessively agitated; for a space she could not speak. 
                  The Bishop repeated the question. 
                  "I think I am; but yet, how can I promise all this? It is too much. What shall I say?" clasping her hands reverently; then looking upward, while her lips moved. "Oh, dear Brother Steinberg," she continued, "do pray for me, and so please do all of you," turning to the rest of the company present-"all of you pray for me, that when I am tried I may not be found wanting in my duty to my Saviour, and to his Church," added Benigna, very much excited. "But, my dear, good friends, I beg of you to talk no more to me for the present about this, for my heart is full, and my poor brain so confused that it quite bewilders me." 
                  "Then you can Retire, my child," said the Bishop, "but to the Sisters' House, until to-morrow morning, as I wish you to ponder well the subject of our conversation; and I recommend you to bring up the case yourself before the Lord in prayer." 
                  "But give me your blessing, if you please, dear Brother Steinberg, ere I go." 
                  "Certainly, my dear daughter." 
                  Benigna hereupon knelt before her venerable spiritual father, who, placing his hand upon her head, solemnly pronounced these words: 
                  "The Lord evermore bless thee, precious lamb of the flock of Christ, and have thee always in his holy keeping. In the name of Jesus. Amen." 
                  She then rose. All present were visibly affected; while she, with stifled sobs, left the apartment. 
                
                
                  CHAPTER XL. 
                  JUST as Benigna left the house, quite near the door she met Frederick, whom she had scarcely seen since the morning. 
                  He was waiting for her, and observing her agitation, paused a moment, then tenderly inquired the cause. 
                  Benigna shook her head, but did not reply. 
                  "I wish you would allow me to share your sorrow. Will you not, dearest Benigna, grant me even this poor privilege?" 
                  "Dear Frederick! my good, kind brother, how I thank you for all your kindness?" she faintly murmured through her tears. "Pray do not be angry with me, yet this cannot be; but I am very glad I have met you, as I cannot return to your mother this evening. Tell her, if you please, that at the Bishop's request I am to sleep at the Sisters' House to-night, but Y intend to be with her as early as I can in the morning. And now good-bye, dear Frederick." 
                  "Cannot you give me a few words more?" 
                  But Benigna heard him not. She was hurrying away as fast as she could towards the Sisters' House, her heart oppressed with various contending emotions. 
                  The pious girl did as the Bishop suggested. She sought privacy as soon as possible, when she faithfully communed with her own heart, examined its feelings as far as she was capable, fervently prayed for heavenly guidance, for a spirit of submission and resignation to the Divine will; then committed her future destiny to the Lord, entreating him to grant her the needful strength and firmness to yield a willing acquiescence in the direction of his Providence. 
                   
                  Benigna felt somewhat relieved after this; yet, with a presentiment of the trial she dreaded coming upon her, the cloud darkened about her heart; she was in a maze of trouble, a labyrinth of perplexity which produced moments of intense agony. 
                  Again the poor girl passed a sleepless night, and the morning found her really ill-indeed, so much so as to render her scarcely able to rise; yet ere she breakfasted, she hastened to her beloved friend, eager to explain to her the cause of her absence, and to seek in her warm affection and sympathy a solace to her distressed mind. But no sooner did she see her than the tumult of her feelings completely overpowered her; she sank into a chair, and commenced to weep. 
                  "What is the matter with you, my dear daughter?" anxiously inquired Mrs. Tracy; but tears still came instead of words. "See, here is dear Frederick!" continued her friend, who being still ignorant of what had transpired between them, was mistaking her emotion. 
                  "Oh yes, dear Frederick!" answered Benigna, turning towards him, placing her tremulous hand within his; then bursting anew into tears. 
                  "What means this, my children?" inquired the anxious mother. 
                  "That I love her-passionately love her!" answered the excited Frederick. "I have told her so, and asked her to be mine; yes mine! and I fondly thought she would consent to it-but no-although she calls me dear Frederick, she loves me not! she rejects my offer!" 
                  Benigna groaned, and hid her face in the lap of Mrs. Tracy. 
                  "Oh, mother!" continued the impassioned young man, "plead for me! she will not turn a deaf ear to you! I am sure, she cannot!" 
                  "Then leave us a while, my son," and she beckoned to him to withdraw. As soon as they were alone- 
                  "Now tell me, my darling, the reason of all this; explain to me what has happened," raising her up, and caressingly putting her arm around Benigna, and pressing her to her fond and affectionate heart. Again Benigna groaned, and her agitation was intense. 
                  "What has Frederick done, to distress you so much? or why this repugnance to him, my child? Come, tell your mother all about it." 
                  "Yes-you are, indeed, a precious mother to me!" she at length found utterance to say. "And Frederick too, dear Frederick! so good, so kind, so generous and devoted. I must call him all that, although he reproaches me. Oh, pity me, kindest and best of friends! but do not condemn me-and tell him so too-for he must not dislike me; promise me that, won't you," weeping bitterly as she spoke. "I will tell you all." 
                  "My beloved child," said Mrs. Tracy, interrupting her, "I think I can assure you of my unalterable affection; and with regard to Frederick, I do not believe you can irretrievably offend him. But what is the matter with him?" 
                  Benigna then gave Mrs. Tracy a faithful account of all that had occurred between Frederick and herself-of her surprise at his proposition-of the agony it produced-of her ignorance of her own heart's real yearnings-her earnest wish to do right-her anxious apprehensions-her fearful anticipations-and, in short, many of the distressing emotions which it had awakened within her. 
                  "And why, my dear child?" 
                  "Because of the rules and regulations among our people which do not allow us to have such feelings-neither are we permitted to marry without the pale of the Society; besides, no marriages can be contracted without the consent of our Elders' Conference. But I have never before either thought or talked of these things-nor have I ever been accustomed to associate at all with gentlemen-nor am I in the least acquainted with the ways of the world-so, if I have done anything wrong in my conduct to dear Frederick, or have sinned against the rules of my Church, it was done in ignorance, and really because I did not know any better." 
                   
                  "Then you do love Frederick, my dear?" 
                  "I do not understand exactly what you mean!" replied the innocent and artless girl, "but it seems to me that there is no one in the wide world whom it would grieve me so much to offend-there is none, I believe, whose happiness is so precious to me as his; and to think he is angry with me now, and believes me unkind and cruel, my generous and high-minded brother!" 
                  "But, my child, you know it is not a sister's love he craves-he wishes you to become his wife. It is with pleasure I perceive that you love him with the same affection he bears you. I am sure you reciprocate his attachment; then do not let a false sense of duty prevent your accepting him. I should very much rejoice if your union did take place. Oh, let me hold you to my heart as my daughter, indeed! Oh, Benigna, my beloved one, be this precious blessing to my widowed, bereaved, and lonely heart!" 
                  For a moment poor Benigna could not reply. 
                  "I marry your son! I, Benigna Waldemar, be the wife of Frederick Tracy? Impossible!-it cannot be!-such a destiny would be too happy, too great for me! no, no, it cannot be! I must shut nay eyes and heart against such a blissful future!" 
                  "Why?" asked Mrs. Tracy. 
                  "You forget, my best friend, my more than mother, that it would be transgressing one of the principal rates of the Society, and be considered such a sin-such a grievous sin." 
                  "What an absurd idea! Do you fealty suppose, my love, that because poor Frederick does not belong to the Society, he must necessarily be bad?" 
                  "Oh, no! he is all goodness! but yet-" 
                  "But yet what?" 
                  "Oht I cannot tell!-but in pity to me ask me no more questions. I only know that I am a member of the Society-they expect me to keep their rules; and if I break them, they will be very much displeased with me." 
                  "But these, I suppose, are not binding except in a Settlement like this; and if it is decided that you can leave here with us, what then? Surely you will no longer be subject to them?" 
                  "Indeed I know not-but really I am so bewildered, and my head aches so badly, I hardly am conscious what I am saying." 
                  "But one question more, clear child, and then this painfully interesting conversation shall cease for the present. Are these rules and regulations the only obstacle to prevent your listening favorably to poor Frederick?" 
                  Benigna made no other reply to this heart-searching query but tears; and then the simple words: 
                  "Would that you were my mother, and I your daughter!" 
                  "And Frederick," quickly added Mrs. Tracy, "where would you place him?" 
                  "Dear, dear Frederick!" was all the answer she gave in reply; "but I feel very sick," she continued, "both my heart and my head ache as if they would break." 
                  Then Mrs. Tracy kindly soothed the suffering girl; bid her be calm, herself bathed her fevered temples, attended to her little wants, and carefully watched her, while she sunk into a restless and unrefreshing sleep. 
                  Presently she woke, but not to consciousness; the highly wrought excitement of her nervous system had produced the temporary delirium of a brain fever, and for several days she was more or less overcome by it. Then the tell-tale tongue revealed secrets of that fond, loving heart. 
                  It told of the sorrows and sufferings of that gentle being, when she found that earthly feeling usurped the place where religion ought to reign; the strivings of that sweet spirit to subdue the cravings of its nature; her endeavors to tear from remembrance the fond, endearing promises of future happiness, so temptingly desirable in prospective; and while she spoke of the warfare within, of her hopes and fears, her earnest yearnings, they who heard her could look into the secret depths of her heart-into the very wells of her life-see, through her transparent mind, the mingling of the various currents of her thoughts and feelings-learn to know the very springs of all her powerful emotions- the fervor of her affections-the devotedness of her piety-together with the strength of those principles of duty which had been so carefully instilled there as to mate herself willing to lay down her dearest treasure as a sacrifice upon the altar of her religious duty. 
                  During this interval the elderess, with sister Rosalie, returned home. They almost directly visited the suffering girl, who, being too ill to be moved, had to remain where she was; but Rosalie immediately took her place beside the sick-bed to assist in nursing her. 
                  It was only a brief space after, ere she discovered the cause of poor Benigna's illness; and as she listened to the sad tones of her sweet voice, witnessed the maternal tenderness and devotion of Mrs. Tracy towards the gentle invalid, observed the pallid countenance and speechless grief of Frederick, together with the kind attentions of the worthy uncle, she more fully comprehended the nature of the endearing relationship which subsisted between the parties, and learned to estimate in some degree the great sacrifice of feeling it would cost to sever it. 
                  There they sat-that widowed mother, childless uncle, and the devoted lover-all watching with fond anxiety beside the couch of the lovely orphan girl; all with willing hearts and ready hands to administer everything in their power to her comfort, and the restoration of her health. 
                  It was not according to Moravian rules of propriety to allow these male visitors in the sick-room of their young Sister; but in vain were all such interdicts in this case. They could not now be enforced; and, encircled by so much affection, no marvel that she soon convalesced. 
                  And when, with returning consciousness, the recollection of her painful position recurred to the sweet girl, and she gave vent to her feelings in prayer and weeping, for the sin of loving those who so fondly watched over her, and cherished her with such intense devotion and affection-then Rosalie Steinberg became perfectly unnerved, and she too wept and prayed. 
                  It happened at this stage of her illness that Benigna first became aware of the fact of Rosalie being with her. They chanced to be alone at the moment. Immediately there was a tumultuous throbbing of her heart, and, bursting into tears, she wept bitterly. 
                  "Oh! Sister Rosalie," she at length softly said, "save me! save me!" 
                  "From what, dear Benigna?" 
                  "From myself," she wildly exclaimed. 
                  Rosalie did not exactly understand what she meant-but believing her yet partially delirious, soothingly replied: 
                  "Do not talk so, my Sister, you have nothing to fear-so pray be not so agitated." 
                  "But you do not know all-how my heart is changed-how many wrong thoughts and wishes it has, and whichever way I turn, whatever course I pursue, I must grieve some of my good friends." 
                  "I see it all-and I pity you sincerely," said Rosalie. 
                  "I am sorely tempted," continued the sick girl, "and it is such a sweet temptation. Oh! pray for me, Sister Rosalie, for poor Benigna Waldemar." 
                  "Yes, my beloved Sister, I will-and the Lord I know will hear us; but compose yourself, and think no more of this now," and she brushed away her gathered tears as she spoke. 
                  In a short time after, while experiencing some kind attentions from Mrs. Tracy, the remembrance of their tender intercourse, their intimate companionship, her well-tried friendship, her generous intentions towards her, all rushed like a mighty torrent through the very chambers of her soul. It completely overwhelmed her, and, flinging herself back upon the bed, she shed tears of the bitterest grief. 
                  "My more than mother, my dear Mrs. Tracy," she at length sobbed out, "I cannot leave you! Oh! tell me what I am to do?" 
                  "You must stay with me, my love, then all will be well. Surely you have suffered enough already from these arbitrary rules of your Society. It can easily be arranged if you will only agree to it; you are, however, still too weak to talk any more-so let us dismiss the subject for the present-be comforted, and try to be calm." 
                  But when the strongest feelings of our nature are passing through such an ordeal, it is exceedingly difficult to become composed. Hence Benigna continued agitated, though she partially succeeded in stilling the tumult within. 
                  Mrs. Tracy herself being quite indisposed from her accumulated anxieties, troubles, and cares, rendered this more especially necessary; and the sweet girl, true to her own self-enduring character, so schooled her face and actions, as to cheat her kind friend into the belief that her mind had become more tranquillized and happy. 
                  Yet she more and more realized the actual position in which she was placed; the necessity of nerving herself for the coming crisis of her fate; and felt that the active principles of her pure religious faith could alone support and sustain her-was the only thing to enable her, in willing submission, to resign herself to whatever should be her allotted destiny. And with deep and fervent piety she did most earnestly endeavor to prepare herself by prayer to tear away from her heart all obstacles between her own wishes and duty to her God and her Church, and with sincerity to say, "Not my will but thine be done"-and, "Do with me, Lord, as seemeth good in thy sight." 
                  While thus engaged the elderess came to see her, to have a preparatory talk previous to the matter being brought before the Conference, to be submitted by them to the "lot." 
                  Benigna was still too feeble to say much; but Sister Melville gathered sufficient in the conversation to satisfy her that this nursling of the Society, in deed, in truth, was disposed obediently to acquiesce in the required obligations of her Church; and in like manner was well pleased with the general tenor of her conduct-respectful, candid, impartial, artless and ingenuous; although the strong feelings she manifested at the idea of an entire separation from the friends she so dearly loved seemed so deeply distressing to her, that the good lady could not but fear what the final result might be, if the decision should be adverse to her going with them. 
                  Directly after she had left, Frederick and his mother entered, and, as Sister Rosalie was absent, had her for a space entirely to themselves. They found her still weeping. Both sought to comfort her, endeavoring to shake her resolution, and to make her promise at all events to remain with them. 
                  "I cannot do this! indeed I cannot!" she replied! "but lest I should not have another opportunity, allow me to speak to you a moment, dear Frederick. I hope you are convinced, my dear brother, of my ignorance, and my mistake; and that you will forgive me all the sorrow I caused you in consequence. Something tells me that we shall soon be parted, and I would not that you left me either angry or grieved at aught I have done or said. Oh, say, dear Frederick, that you will ever think kindly of me." 
                  Frederick could not speak in reply; but pressed her hand to his lips, kissed it, and sobbed aloud. 
                  "Oh, my brother!" she continued, taking his hand affectionately within hers, and looking at him mournfully through her tears, "I owe you much, and God knows all I feel for you; but it is not becoming in me to tell it. It is not right for a daughter of my Church to be so fretted by an earth-born attachment as to forget the superior love she owes to the Saviour-the duty of religion over the dearest objects of human affection. Then forgive me, dearest Frederick, forgive me! and as a sister, even as Emily herself loved you, suffer me evermore to think of you." 
                  Frederick was too much agitated to reply; but holding her fondly to his heart, again and again embraced her-then hearing advancing footsteps, he hastily withdrew. 
                
                
                  CHAPTER XLI. 
                  Two hours after this, Benigna had another visitor, Bishop Steinberg. He found Mrs. Tracy with his daughter and the Doctor in the room, and Benigna seated in the chair bequeathed to her by Emily. Her maternal friend had one arm around her, while each hand of hers was retained within those of her kind parental friend. Her eyes were still swollen and red with weeping, but she appealed rather more composed. 
                  The conversation naturally soon turned upon the interesting event of the morrow, which was to decide whether Benigna Waldemar should continue under the sheltering wing of the Moravian community, or be transplanted into another atmosphere, under the canopy of that domestic love which even then so fondly encircled her. 
                  The colloquy was principally carried on between the gentlemen, the Doctor asking many questions, which the good Bishop as readily answered. He learned from him the particulars of the religious ceremonial which would take place on the occasion, investing the whole transaction with a great deal of solemnity. 
                  Yet, although he entertained great respect for the people who possessed such entire faith in this observance, he could not reconcile to his mind the propriety of this extraordinary mode for settling such an important question, more particularly in cases like the present, when the mutual advantages to the parties most immediately concerned were so very apparent, and the whole connection of circumstances seemed so plainly to be the result of a Providental direction. He believed it to be perfectly unnecessary. 
                  "Let me state the case," continued the Doctor. "Here is this dear young girl, bereft of all the nearest, tenderest ties of kindred-a lone orphan-a creature full of warm and affectionate impulses-possessing a heart throbbing with all the kindly sympathies of our nature to an exquisite degree-yearning for pure domestic affection, and painfully realizing the want of those endearing relations which make life so pleasant and desirable. Here she is in her loveliness and "strong susceptibilities of feeling, an isolated orphan; while beside her sits one with whom the tendrils of her fond, loving heart are entwined-to whom she has been bequeathed by the dead, and who loves her so truly and devotedly that she would fain take her to her home and her heart, as her own dear child, regarding her as a precious gift from heaven, to cheer and comfort her bereaved spirit. 
                  "Nor will she lack a father's love and tender care; for I, too, crave parental feelings and privileges toward her; and, as the daughter of our adoption, it would be our delightful study to promote her happiness and comfort in every possible way; we would surround her with every earthly blessing, render her young life as happy as we can, and both now and at our death liberally provide for her. The dear girl is not calculated for a life of toil-of daily exertion for a living; she is too frail and delicate for hardships of any kind." 
                  "But, my dear Sir," interrupted the Bishop, "she is not in a dependent situation. She has at present an income quite sufficient for her support." 
                  "Pray, may I ask, how much has she?" 
                  "About one hundred dollars per annum." 
                  "This I should think inadequate, even with the greatest economy. But let me urge you to think of all I have said upon the subject, my good Bishop, and consider whether it is really right thus to oppose our wishes. Is it positively necessary to go through this singular ceremonial, in order to decide this question of her leaving or remaining?" 
                  "It is-being according to our usual custom, to decide any important matter; besides, our young Sister herself has agreed to have it settled in this manner. You certainly, my dear Doctor, present very forcible reasons for the acceptance of your kind and generous offer; and, in behalf of our Sister Benigna, I sincerely thank you. Yet, nevertheless, allow me to say that I consider we have stronger claims upon her than you have. But we estimate worldly considerations differently. With us temporal advantages are nothing, in comparison to spiritual ones. 
                  "These last our young Sister enjoys with us in an eminent degree. From early childhood she has been under our sheltering care. We received her among the lambs of our fold when she had scarcely escaped from the scalping-knife or capture of the poor outraged savage; we then gently took her by the hand -we led her through the green pastures of our beautiful Zion; we fed and nourished her with, heavenly food. She has been bathed in the dews of Divine goodness, as she drank with us from the fount of living waters; and now we hail her, not only as a child of our Church, but as a daughter of the Lord, and, as such, one of the fair heiresses of the heavenly Canaan, the land of promise to all faithful believers and followers of our Saviour. 
                  "Yes, Sir! she has thus been trained and educated; her young steps and affections were directed heavenward, and, through our humble instrumentality, she has been fitted for a life of usefulness upon earth, also for an eternity of happiness in heaven. 
                  "Marvel not, therefore, that we feel a godly jealousy, an anxious tenderness toward this flower of our garden-that ere we consent, to her being transferred into other hands, to be under different influences, we wish to implore the Divine counsel upon the subject. 'Man proposes, but God disposes' all events. We believe if we seek to know His will in reference to any of our concerns, we can certainly ascertain it by means of the 'lot.' Being firmly persuaded of this in our minds, we intend to make use of it, to settle what to us appears a momentous question; therefore, are prepared to yield a hearty amen to the answer, should the 'lot' decide against our dear Sister's remaining with us. I also feel assured, though the result may be such that she may find herself, in consequence, placed in painfully trying circumstances, that, nevertheless, she earnestly desires in like manner to be submissive on the occasion. 
                  "Let me pray you, therefore, my good friends, not to check her praiseworthy endeavors to discharge a distressing duty; but rather summon the necessary fortitude to submit to this separation, if it must be, with resignation, believing that it is wisely ordered by an overruling Providence." 
                  While he thus spoke, tears were fast falling down the pale cheeks of both Mrs. Tracy and Benigna. 
                  "We will have to join your Society,. I am thinking, in order to secure our prize," observed the Doctor. 
                  Just then Frederick entered the room. 
                   
                  "Yes!" he exclaimed, with somewhat of his wonted animation, "I am ready to do so directly. Your people shall be my people, and here will I dwell, provided this dear girl can always continue with us. What say you, Bishop, to this proposition?" 
                  The old gentleman smiled, shook his head, and then replied: 
                  "We make no such bargains, young man, with any one joining us. Besides, our prohibitory laws are so strict, and so rigidly enforced among ourselves, that you would seldom have the opportunity of personal intercourse with Benigna; for, from henceforth, if she stays with us, she is placed under the same surveillance as the other maiden Sisterhood of her age generally are, to be subjected to the like order of discipline." 
                  The Doctor hereupon commenced to make inquiries concerning some of the peculiar regulations in reference to them-especially of the manner of determining marriages in the Society. 
                  "I refer you to my daughter for answers to your interrogatories upon this subject, as I must now leave you, my friends. You will find her thoroughly acquainted with all our peculiar arrangements, and she is perhaps more interested in this one at the present than I am," continued the Bishop, glad to have the topic of conversation changed. "No one understands the features of our ecclesiastical constitution better than she does-and being very communicative, you can obtain every information from her you may desire relative to it." 
                  The Bishop then shook hands with all the family; and, with a "Peace be with you all," took his leave. 
                
                
                  CHAPTER XLII. 
                  THE Tracy family, having become quite intimate with Sister Rosalie, felt no hesitation in immediately besieging her with innumerable questions-more especially the two gentlemen; and so interested presently were the whole group in the conversation which ensued, as to banish for the time the remembrance of all their unpleasant thoughts, as well as their anticipated trial. 
                   
                  "Well, Sister Rosalie," said Frederick, "do have the kindness to satisfy us concerning some of your marvellous customs and practices." 
                  Rosalie smiled, and expressed her willingness to explain any question they might ask. 
                  "I desire to be informed, lady," said the Doctor, "how your marriages are arranged?" 
                  "Oh, do tell us all about it!" interrupted Frederick. 
                  Rosalie described the whole course of procedure-told how the proposition was made and acted upon-of the list drawn up, and rendered to the assembled Conference; to all of which they listened with the most profound attention and interest. She was proceeding to mention the further course of action in the matter, when the excited Frederick interrupted her with: 
                  "Pardon me! but why this long list? and what do they do with so many names for one person? I should think one enough at a time!" 
                  "And so it is," answered Rosalie; "but then they must have sufficient for to make a selection." 
                  "Then I suppose they take a large parcel of them, throw them together into a hat or box, shake them up, then pass it to the man who is to be married to take one out." 
                  "Not so, exactly," replied Rosalie, smiling; "that important individual is not at all present." 
                  "Well, that is strange! and is he perfectly quiescent upon the occasion?" 
                  "He is entirely so." 
                  "Then, who draws for him?" 
                  "One of the Conference." 
                  "But suppose he should not like the selection, is he compelled to marry the lady?" 
                  "Oh, no; not at all." 
                  "Then can they draw for him again?" 
                  "Certainly." 
                  "But I suppose he has to wait until his turn comes again?" 
                  "Do you mean," asked Rosalie, "whether he is obliged to remain single until all his marrying Brethren have been before the Conference on the same business?" 
                  "Yes, madam, I do." 
                  "This is not the case," she replied. "He may try successively until a selection is made, agreeable to both parties." 
                  "Then have neither sex the right of marrying any particular individual, and are they not allowed to indulge in any secret preference?" inquired the Doctor. 
                  "Our Sisters do not, or, if they do, they generally wisely conceal it; but the Brethren, who always are the applying candidates, are privileged to have a choice. But if the 'lot' is adverse to it, they are expected to acquiesce in the decision. They are allowed still to choose for themselves; they can name another Sister, but after a failure with the first, they usually leave it with the Conference to make the selection." 
                  "How passing strange!" said Frederick. 
                  "But it is not possible that all your people follow out this singular observance?-that they all marry in this way?" said the Doctor. 
                  "We cannot marry in any other way. No marriage is permitted to be contracted among us, but according to this arrangement," replied Rosalie. 
                  "But do none of your people ever transgress this rule?" continued the Doctor. "Have you no runaway matches among you?" 
                  "Very seldom. There have been some cases, I admit; but, as in every such instance the marriage has proven an unhappy or unfortunate connection", their examples are not likely to have many imitators." 
                  "I suppose you marry altogether as an expediency?" 
                  "Such is the case." 
                  "Then you do not consult your affections at all?" 
                  "This seldom happens; we marry generally from a sense of duty, and, though not prompted by our affections, are influenced by feeling, or rather instinctive impressions, which guide us in forming a decision upon the subject." 
                   
                  "But, notwithstanding, you marry without loving each other?" said Frederick. 
                  "We do; and yet we expect to be quite as happy as those who are actuated by the grosser instincts of our nature when forming this connection. In fact, according to the usages of society in the world at large, our sex most frequently are placed in similar circumstances when they marry. They are not privileged to be the choosers of their own destiny. They seldom marry the man they really prefer to every other, having only the liberty of accepting or rejecting among those who ask for their preference." 
                  "This is certainly true in many instances; yet there is a secret sympathy or relation between some natures by which they are mutually attracted to each other, and thus many parties are united whose attachments are mutual and fully reciprocated." 
                  "This may sometimes occur-indeed I believe it to be the case; but from what I have been able to learn of many of these love-matches, as they are termed, they are not always remarkably felicitous connections. I think the reason of this is obvious. Each party, while under the intoxication of this passion, is apt to invest the other with every requisite perfection of mind and heart. Such is the case more particularly with the female portion of humanity. It is because our imagination usually is apt to be stronger than our judgment. When woman fixes her affections upon an object, be it worthy or not, from the intensity of her feelings she is too prone to make it the idol of her worship. She enters marriage full of rapturous expectation of perfect bliss, of unalloyed happiness; but perhaps, ere many months pass by, the stern realities of experience show her she made a mistake; that she is not enjoying the sunny visions and dreams of delight she fancied she would; besides, the being whom she had placed upon the altar of her soul perhaps proves to be unworthy, is not the character imagined in the fond anticipations of happy girlhood, is totally undeserving the idolatry of her devoted heart." 
                  "Such things are, and ever will be; but these disappointments are unavoidable," said the Doctor, "from the very nature and tendency of the passion to exalt its object, and to invest it with ideal perfections; yet we should not condemn it on that account." 
                  "Yet, how dreadful to be thus deceived in the being so fondly loved; and better far, methinks, to marry without any love at all," said Rosalie. 
                  "I do not agree with you there; nor could you thus reconcile me to a Moravian marriage by lot." 
                  Rosalie smiled. 
                  "And you take each other entirely upon trust?" said the Doctor. 
                  "Such is the fact." 
                  "But how can you," asked Mrs. Tracy, "do so? Link your fate indissolubly with a stranger-place your all of earthly happiness in the keeping of another, who, maybe, will care little for you, save only as far as his interests are concerned-may not understand you-have no fellowship of feeling with you-whose tastes, sentiments, and habits are perfectly dissimilar to yours?" 
                  "You state an extreme case, my dear madam; yet nevertheless, even in such an instance, I would be willing to risk my happiness, rather than be the victim of momentary infatuation, or the slave of passionate emotions. In truth, I have very little faith in such kinds of sensibilities, and, besides, believe that much of this talked of congeniality of mind and heart is altogether a fanciful idea; that people seldom realize their expectations in this respect." 
                  "I think, from what you have said, you suppose that there is really much deception as well as disappointment in marriages, as they are usually arranged," said the Doctor. 
                  "Certainly, I am of that opinion!" 
                  "It is doubtless so," he replied, "as I have already admitted; yet there are many very happy marriages in the world, I assure you." 
                  Rosalie smiled, and looked almost incredulous. 
                  "And in one which has love for its origin," continued the Doctor, "where the mystic tie is cemented by affection, a wife will always, methinks, have a stronger claim and influence upon her husband, than if the union was formed under different circumstances." 
                  "It may be so," answered Rosalie, "but yet I doubt it. Indeed, I am so prejudiced against such marriages in general, that I have nothing to say in favor of them." 
                  "Because you so very much prefer your own customs, I suppose," replied the Doctor. 
                  "Such is really the case; and I cannot but strongly advocate our way of marrying. We are not blindly led by our passions, when entering upon this important connection. Nor have we any extravagant expectations, or torturing fears and anxious apprehensions. We pledge ourselves to tread life's troublous road together, jointly bearing the burden of its duties-alike sharing its joys and sorrows-mutually administering to each other's comfort, faithfully and affectionately." 
                  "Then you marry first, and love afterwards?" said Frederick. 
                  "Yes;" answered Rosalie, smiling, "but not as you understand the word, I imagine." 
                  "How then?" 
                  "The difference is this, I think. It is not so absorbing in its nature; but it is the most exalted and refined of human friendships, and as it is entirely without passion, it has not its attendant evils. There is no jealousy-no mistrust, or inconstancy; but there is perfect confidence-an unwavering faith in each other." 
                  "This is really delightful!" said Frederick; "but yet I cannot understand how the human mind and will can be brought under such subjection-can be so controlled." 
                  "It is the effect of a deep religious faith; a confident assurance in the Divine agency and interposition; a firm, settled belief in a special Providence," replied Rosalie, "together with several other circumstances, which I cannot now explain." 
                  "Yes, these, I am convinced," observed the Doctor, "have established this extraordinary custom in your Society; but it will not always be retained among you. It will continue only as long as you remain so distinct from the rest of the world, and preserve your present peculiar characteristics of simple faith, devoted zeal and ardor in the cause of religion." 
                  "But," added Frederick, "uncle, perhaps these good people have not naturally very strong susceptibilities of the heart; I mean as far as that kind of affections is concerned." 
                  Rosalie colored at this remark. 
                  "You are very much mistaken about this, I can assure you," said she, with a sigh. "Think you, young man, that because we thus treat one of the most powerful instincts of our nature, we are insensible to its influence? I tell you nay!-but we are prompted to this self-denial altogether by a pure and fervent love to our Lord, which outweighs all considerations of every earthly feeling; it is so engrossing in its character, that for it we can be made willing to relinquish our most cherished enjoyments, the dearest connections-can sever the brightest and strongest links of our being-in short, all that our nature teaches us to prize, or to hold dear." 
                  "Pardon me, Sister Rosalie," said Frederick; "I meant not to offend; but the whole of your views upon this affair are really so very extraordinary." 
                  "I am aware of that," said she, in reply, "and am not displeased, as I believe you ask for information, and not from mere idle curiosity." 
                  "I suppose you all know each other so well, that only such names are placed upon the list which is drawn from, as are thought most suitable to the applying candidate for matrimony," said the Doctor. 
                  "Such individuals generally are first proposed; but it frequently happens that one is finally chosen, and afterwards becomes the wife, who otherwise probably would never have been thought of." 
                  "This I should call pairing, not matching," said Frederick; "but are such couples happy?" 
                  "They usually are. An unhappy marriage is a rare occurrence among us." 
                   
                  "A strong argument in favor of such alliances; but, Sister Rosalie, do favor us with the whole history of one of these singular marriages," continued Frederick, coaxingly. 
                  "Well, suppose I give you a very strange one." 
                  "The stranger the better," replied the young man. 
                  "Well, I will tell you, then, of one which occurred some two or three years ago:-A young Brother presented himself before one of our Conferences, with the request to be married. He was a good mechanic, of industrious habits, excellent character, in limited circumstances, but of sufficient business to warrant the step. He mentioned the names of two Sisters, the daughters of a widow; both of these were, successively, negatively drawn. He then proposed the mother, a poor, sickly woman, and insisted upon her being tried. The, 'lot' decided in her favor. Both accepted their destiny, and they were married." 
                  "But was she not old enough to be his mother?" 
                  "Certainly! being nearly eighteen years his senior; and he is encumbered not only with her support, but besides, of her four youngest children." 
                  "Well, he seemed determined, if possible, to marry into the family; but surely such an ill-assorted union could not prove a happy one?" 
                  "Yet it really appears so. She is a sensible, affectionate, and contented wife, and an excellent manager, while he is a good husband, and, though obliged to toil very hard, seems perfectly satisfied with his condition." 
                  "But what became of the two daughters?" 
                  "Both have since married, and one under even more extraordinary circumstances than her mother." 
                  "Do tell us all about it," said Frederick. 
                  "A missionary Brother who had lost his wife, wrote for another; he could not leave his post, so his chosen bride had to be sent to him." 
                  "Sent to him!" exclaimed Frederick, "like a bale of goods; without at least seeing her, or allowing her a chance to look at him!" 
                   
                  "Oh, this is quite common among us," answered Rosalie, smiling. "You must bear in mind that we do not consult either our passions or inclinations in forming this connection. In such cases as this, we are impelled only by our love to our Saviour, our duty to Him; and it is because we have received our call from Him, that we are willing to enter into this intimate companionship with a strange Brother." 
                  "But suppose, after all, the parties do not like each other when they meet; that there should exist in either mind an unconquerable aversion; how then would you determine the affair?" inquired Frederick. 
                  "Such cases seldom, if ever, occur," replied Rosalie. "As faithful and obedient children of our dear Lord, they are disposed to love each other for His sake, as well as the work in which they are engaged." 
                  "Yet should there be such a case as I have mentioned, where there was really positive dislike to each other?" 
                  "Then of course the party would not be compelled to be married; the Sister would either be sent back again, or tried for some other Brother desirous of a companion." 
                  "But, Frederick, you have interrupted Sister Rosalie," said Mrs. Tracy. 
                  "Where was I in my story?" 
                  "Where the wife had just been sent to the missionary," answered Frederick. 
                  "Not so, exactly; but I believe I mentioned the circumstance of his having written for one who was to go to him, as he could not leave his station. This Brother, in describing the partner he wished selected for him, after desiring she should be one willing to be devoted to his work, a faithful helpmate in his missionary labors, expressed a preference for a short, dumpy Sister, of about five feet high, as a matter of economy and expediency-his late wife being of that size, and leaving quite a large wardrobe of excellent clothing, which might thus be rendered available to her successor. The Conference, approving of the prudential views of their worthy Brother, acted upon his suggestion. Accordingly, none but Sisters answering to the description of his deceased wife were tried for him. After several failures the oldest daughter of that feeble woman was drawn. She accepted the offer, and, curious enough, she proved to be of exactly the right height and proper dimensions." 
                  All her listeners were very much interested with the whole of this conversation, more especially with these narrations of Sister Rosalie; but Frederick laughed outright upon the recital of the last-nor could his mother or his uncle for a time restrain him. It seemed so very ridiculous, preposterous, perfectly devoid of any sentiment or romance, and so business-like, that he could not prevent it. 
                  "There was no love in this case, certainly," exclaimed he, "but surely a very economical arrangement. Of course the good man was easily suited, provided he got the exact fit; and it seems to me he wanted a wife entirely for a convenience. Excuse me, Sister Rosalie," seeing her look grave, "I mean no offence; but how an intelligent human being, with any fine feelings whatever, no matter how strongly influenced by religious motives, can submit to marriage, particularly a lady, under such circumstances, is beyond my comprehension." 
                  "You speak with a worldly mind, and with worldly feelings," mildly retorted Rosalie. "Young man, did you thoroughly love the Saviour, for His sake, to advance His glory, and for the benefit of your fellow-men, you would be willing to do all this, unnatural though it may appear-that is, if you believed this immolation of your nature a sacrifice which God required of you. But, my dear friends, I do not wonder that these peculiar opinions and regulations of ours should be enigmatical to you. Yet bear in mind, if you please, the origin of our Society, and the whole principles of our banded union;-that we were born of papal fires and persecutions; are followers of an oppressed faith; bound together by no other compact than Christian love; have enlisted ourselves in the army of the faithful under the banner of the Cross; have pledged ourselves to the sacred service of the great Captain of our salvation-and in doing this, have determined mined to tread down all obstacles under our feet, subdue all natural feelings, even our fondest hopes, our dearest desires. 
                  "But I hear the sound of the bell for our evening meeting, therefore cannot tarry longer; I will only add, before I go, that as I will not really be needed here, and you would doubtless be glad to be alone to-night, I shall not return until to-morrow." 
                  Sister Rosalie thereupon shook hands with Mrs. Tracy and the gentlemen; afterwards approached Benigna-spoke to her a few moments in a low tone of voice. What she said evidently embarrassed the poor girl-for she trembled excessively, while the color mounted to her pale cheeks, and the tears gathered in her eyes. 
                  "And now, Benigna, my sister," she continued aloud, "I commend you to our dear Lord and his grace-to guide, direct, and support you;"-saying which she affectionately kissed her; then, bidding the whole party farewell, she took her departure. 
                  "A thorough Moravian that; a fine specimen of the most devoted zealot; the purest primitive Christian character I think I have ever met with!" exclaimed Dr. Tracy, ere Rosalie had scarcely closed the door. 
                  "I consider her a very dangerous person," said Frederick. 
                  "Why, dear Frederick?" said Benigna, somewhat alarmed. 
                  "Because she is so insinuating and persuasive in her talk; and then there is her venerable father, so impressive in his manner. He appears to be truly an excellent man-sincere and sensible withal." 
                  "He is all that, indeed," replied Benigna, "and they both are very good!" 
                  "They are too much so, I am thinking, for poor humanity in general. I have no sympathy with such people." 
                  "Frederick, my dear son," said his mother, "you forget yourself!" 
                  "Well, really I cannot help it. My whole nature rebels against their absurdities. I wish indeed, from my very heart, you never belonged to these Moravians, dearest Benigna," he continued, looking at her sad countenance as he spoke. 
                   
                  Benigna raised her tearful eyes, took his offered hand within hers, and pressed it affectionately. 
                  "Do not say so, dear Frederick," said she; "you forget the filial and grateful affection I owe them for all their kindly interest in my behalf, from my tender childhood until now. And more than all, for that watchful love which guided my young steps in the path of eternal life, and led my youthful thoughts heavenward, in holy aspirations. But I feel very sad and weary;"-and in truth, she was so. 
                  The poor girl, besides, was much agitated; but, determining to be firm in her high resolve of duty, yet fearful of wavering, she desired to terminate this painfully embarrassing conversation as speedily as possible. But the weakness of humanity prevailed for a moment. She was in perfect agony, and, leaning on his shoulder, she sobbed aloud. 
                  They were entirely alone at the time. Both yielded to their feelings, and manifested considerable agitation and distress. Presently summoning resolution, Benigna said: 
                  "Dear Frederick, say no more to me now-for indeed I cannot bear it; but leave me, if you please." 
                  "There-good night, dearest Benigna," he replied, fondly embracing her; "and may the same good angels who watch over you, take me under their friendly wings." Directly afterwards he left the room. 
                
                
                  CHAPTER XLIII. 
                  THE following morning the sky was dark and lowering, betokening a change in the weather, and towards noon the rain fell in torrents. 
                  In the mean while the Conference met. Both Frederick and Benigna were aware of this, for they had seen several of the members enter the Gemein Haus, the appointed place of meeting, between nine and ten o'clock in the morning. But they did not hear the result until some hours after, in consequence of the drenching rain. 
                   
                  In the interval it would be difficult to describe the feelings of either of the party in the little parlor occupied by the Tracy family, the hopes and fears of the excited Frederick, the anxious, fond desires of his affectionate mother, with the earnest wish of the excellent uncle, and the sure, trusting confidence of Benigna Waldemar, who awaited this crisis in her destiny with a forced calmness which necessity seemed to demand. Though she had more at stake than the others, would unquestionably be a greater loser than they, should the "lot" negative their wishes, yet, firmly believing in this method of ascertaining the Divine will, she had nerved herself to the resolution to submit to its decision, however painful might be the result. 
                  It surely was a powerful principle-a sincere religious faith-a more than common love to God, that could thus enable this warm, sensitive, ardent, fond, loving girl-so young and susceptible, tender-hearted and affectionate-to be willing, at the bidding of supposed duty, to relinquish a valued and cherished connection, so delightful and endearing an intimacy-to resign these, when they were all so dearly beloved, so desirable and excellent in every respect. 
                  Nevertheless, it was so; though, from her youth and inexperience, it could not be possible for her to be able to realize the suffering it would cost her, or the extent of the sacrifice it involved. Yet she knew full well, and painfully too, that she was under strong temptations, which rendered the practice of a great deal of self-denial necessary. 
                  Hence, notwithstanding the poor girl's feelings were passing through the crucible of Moravian influences, opinions, and prejudices, they were not as yet thoroughly disciplined. 
                  Deep in the secret recesses of her heart there continued to be a fearful struggle: nature was combating with duty, feeling with religion, and for a space, fierce was the contest between them. 
                  Presently, just one hour after mid-day, a rap at the door brought in Sister Rosalie. 
                  There was a particular expression in her bright, intelligent eye as, with a countenance beaming with real satisfaction and pleasure, she approached Benigna, kissed her, and whispered: "You are still our dear Sister." 
                  Benigna immediately comprehended her; she understood all instantly, yet she was too bewildered and agitated to reply. 
                  In a moment more Bishop Steinberg, with the elderess, had entered. They were smiling, but, notwithstanding, both looked somewhat anxious. 
                  Benigna hereupon burst into tears, and all were directly overcome. 
                  "Well, my dear Benigna," said Sister Melville, "I perceive you have been informed that our dear Lord wills it you should continue with us; should remain among this little flock of grace, where it pleased Him in your childhood to place you." 
                  "Is this really a fact? Are you sure of it?" exclaimed the excited Frederick; "or have you made it come so?" 
                  "Frederick!" said his uncle, "calm yourself, my dear boy! But is it so? are you really sure of it?" continued he, repeating Frederick's inquiry. 
                  "Certainly we are!" replied Bishop Steinberg; "yet the question is not finally disposed of, until we receive our dear young Sister's Answer upon the subject. Perhaps, my dear child, you may wish to think further about it, ere you come to a settled determination upon the matter." 
                  Benigna's feelings were now agitated to an intense degree. For a space she could do nothing but weep. 
                  "Say no! say no, dearest Benigna! Oh, pray do not leave my poor mother!" 
                  The poor girl rose-then hastily left the room-but back she returned again in a little while. She looked at Mrs. Tracy, her fond material friend-her soul's yearnings towards her were too strong to be thus suddenly riven-then she gazed with powerful emotions at the Doctor, her would-be father-next at Frederick, her best beloved of all-afterwards at Emily's vacant chair, when she groaned and sobbed aloud. 
                  "He that loveth father or mother more than me, is not worthy of me-and whosoever is not ready to give up father and mother, brethren and lands for toy sake, and the gospel's, and for the kingdom of God's sake, he verily cannot be the disciple of our Lord," said the Bishop, solemnly. "You must choose now, my child, whom you will serve-yourself or our Lord. You must consider which has the strongest claims upon your affections-earthly ties, human feelings-or the love and duty by which you are bound to the gracious Saviour, the blessed Redeemer of your soul." 
                  Benigna made no other reply to this but by rushing into the arms of Mrs. Tracy, giving her a hearty embrace; then quickly afterwards going to the Bishop, placing one of her hands in his, while the other she extended to the elderess. 
                  "Receive back your child," she faintly murmured. "Yet wait one moment more!" she wildly cried; "take me not away now! it will kill me if you do! Oh, let me stay with them as long as it is possible!" 
                  "But would this be wise or prudent, think you, my Benigna?" said Sister Melville. 
                  "Oh, trust me, though I should die, it will not make any difference in my resolution." 
                  Then again placing herself beside Mrs. Tracy, and throwing her arms fondly around her, she continued: 
                  "Dear, dear mother-friend, my good, kind Mrs. Tracy, relieve my poor aching heart by telling me that you will forgive me for thus casting off, as it were, your valuable, priceless love-the most precious affection I have ever shared. And you too, kind and generous Doctor, my almost father-my dear noble-hearted and affectionate brother Frederick, you must likewise forgive me. Oh, deem me not ungrateful for the tender interest and regard you have manifested towards me-a lone, desolate orphan; and believe me, in ray heart of hearts you will all ever be enshrined in the most enduring and endearing remembrance. 
                  "But none of you answer me," she continued, weeping bitterly. "It is because you are displeased, I fear. Oh, Brother Steinberg-Sister Melville-do tell me what am I to do?-what more can I say? Sister Rosalie! do you please explain it to them," she said, amid a torrent of tears. 
                  The Doctor hereupon spoke; he replied in behalf of the trio, and his words were soothing to her distracted spirits; yet as Mrs. Tracy remained silent, she was not satisfied. 
                  In truth the dear lady was so overcome by the whole scene before her, especially by Benigna's conduct upon the occasion, that it almost paralyzed her. It perfectly astounded her; for, notwithstanding the result of this decision came not altogether unexpectedly, she was totally unprepared for this ready submission. Hence had she not been so well acquainted with the whole history of her training-her devoted piety-the particular bias of her mind and feelings upon this subject, she would probably have been offended by it. But a moment's reflection was sufficient for her to judge properly about the whole case. 
                  Mrs. Tracy had witnessed too frequently the struggle going on in her pure, sensitive heart, to bring it entirely in subjection to duty, not to understand why site thus acted. She had watched her with fond solicitude, as she saw her efforts to be able at will to rend asunder the silken cords of happiness which bound her to them. Yet, though she knew it argued not a want of affection on her part towards herself or her family, and was thoroughly acquainted with the secret springs of feeling which prompted this self-sacrificing resolution, and could not but respect the fervent piety which made her lovely protge willing to consent to it, she notwithstanding found it difficult to be reconciled to it. 
                  While these thoughts were passing through her mind, the distressed girl again came to Mrs. Tracy-knelt before her-took her hands gently within her own-bathed them with her tears, while ever and anon she would look mournfully into her dearly beloved countenance, as if she wished to read her very soul. 
                  "Oh, take pity upon me!" she said; "remember, my more than mother, how much I lose by this act; that poor Ellinor Benigna Waldemar is again rendered an orphan. Yes," she continued, "four times in my young life have I been thus bereaved; but never, oh, never before were these dear affections entombed within a living grave! Oh, pity the poor desolate orphan! Oh, for dear Emily's sake, if not for mine, pardon me! Oh! willingly would I rather die than see you offended with me-you, my tender and devoted friend-my precious beloved mother," she continued, weeping with bitter agony as she spoke. 
                  There was not a dry eye in that room-Mrs. Tracy was very much affected; indeed, for some moments she could not speak. She stooped down and affectionately kissed the lovely girl-then wiped away her falling tears; presently she tried to soothe her by assurances, not only of forgiveness, but of her continued interest and affection. 
                  "Rise up, my dear, my precious child," she added, almost choked with her emotions; "come, sit near me-nestle close to that heart which so fondly loves you." 
                  Benigna did so directly; and found herself clasped in the loving arms of this very dear friend. 
                  "This is a great shock to me, my darling," she continued, "almost too much for me to bear at present, in my weak and troubled condition. Indeed, I am cruelly disappointed; for in all my visions of future happiness in this life, you were associated. And in losing you, dear child, I shall realize more than ever that I am almost a childless, as well as a widowed mother. Perhaps, however, it is all right that this should be; yet I find it extremely difficult to think so." 
                  Their conversation was here interrupted by the Doctor, who, with the Bishop and the elderess, had meanwhile been talking together. 
                  "We need not part just yet, with this dear child," said the former, placing his hand affectionately upon the head of Benigna. 
                  "I understand you propose to leave here soon, my dear madam," observed Bishop Steinberg, "and I have promised the Doctor, if you desire it, to permit our dear Sister to continue to sojourn with you until that time." 
                  Mrs. Tracy thanked him for his kindly consideration, and expressed her pleasure at this arrangement. 
                
                
                   
                  CHAPTER XLIV. 
                  WE pass now over the sad interval, until the afternoon preceding the departure of the Tracy family. 
                  Accompanied by Benigna, they went to visit the grave of Emily, As they passed the Gemein Haus, the Bishop saw them, and joined the sorrowful party. They spent some time by the spot which contained her beloved remains, While there, the Doctor spoke of a monument which they desired to place over the grave. To this the Bishop objected, it not being customary to allow them in their Settlements. All of their own dead had merely a simple flat tombstone, and for the sake of uniformity he would wish hers to be the same. The Doctor then took the dimensions, and arranged the inscription upon it. He intended to send it from Philadelphia in the spring. 
                  Presently they left. The Bishop walked with them as far as his home, which he entered, while the rest pursued their way to their lodgings. 
                  Both parties, from respect to each other, had till this period refrained from adverting to their separation. But when the preparation for the journey commenced, and Benigna looked upon the pale, wan countenance of her beloved friend, so full of love, kindness, and tenderness towards her-on the melancholy face o Frederick, and thought of the few brief hours of their union, the tide of feeling rushed so strong through her very soul as almost to unnerve her resolution. 
                  And hastily leaving their presence, she withdrew into the solitude of their most remote apartment; there, throwing herself upon her knees before her Maker, she earnestly prayed for strength, superhuman assistance, to endure this severe trial with calmness. 
                  "And, O Heavenly Father," she continued, "bless them! bless these dear ones, I humbly entreat thee, with thy richest blessings; bless them especially for their generous kindness to me; for the happiness they scattered in the pathway of the lonely orphan. Oh! reward them abundantly for it all. Grant them thy favor and goodness; bestow upon them, I beseech thee, the riches of thy love; keep them constantly under the shadow of thy wing; and at last receive them into thy eternal kingdom." 
                  She stopped a few moments, then added: "But this poor heart, O Lord, forgive, I beseech thee, these wanderings from thee! Bring it back to thyself, and henceforth let love to thee be its supreme felicity." 
                  Again she stopped, rose from her knees, walked quickly up and down the room; then, with clasped hands, and eyes raised, she continued: 
                  "But bless them, gracious and merciful Lord! Bless my dear Mrs. Tracy, the Doctor and Frederick, my last father and mother, and dearest brother, and me too! Oh, my Father! enable us all to see thy leadings in this painful trial, and prepare us to meet it with becoming fortitude and resignation." 
                  A brief silence ensued, interrupted only by sobs. 
                  The grief-stricken girl thought herself alone with her God, while she thus pleaded for her friends and herself; but nearly the whole of her petition had been overheard. 
                  Observing her pallid countenance and excessive agitation, and supposing that perhaps she might be ill and require attention, Mrs. Tracy first, then Frederick and his uncle, followed her tottering steps. 
                  The first impulse of Mrs. Tracy was immediately to enter the room; but when her hand touched the latch, the sweet, melancholy voice of Benigna met her ear, fervently enagaged in earnest prayer. 
                  The trio listened in breathless silence; and as they heard her strong pleadings in their behalf, the mighty conflict of her soul in its warfare of contending feelings, the painfulness of the sacrifice she was about making, in the agony of spirit she endured, they were much overcome. 
                  "But the dear, sweet girl must not be permitted to continue to suffer thus. As our separation is unavoidable, we ought to make the best of it, to soften the trial, especially to Benigna," argued the Doctor; "or the poor child, notwithstanding her piety, will be rendered, at least for a time, miserably unhappy. We must consider her, Frederick, as an unattainable good, which it is vain for us any longer to desire." 
                  "Confound the absurd notions which have made it so!" 
                  "Frederick, my son," said his mother, sadly, "you forget that your sister Emily belonged to this people, and that she rests among their dead." 
                  Frederick was deeply moved; he looked at the mournful countenance of his mother, and replied: 
                  "Pray tell me, what do you desire me to do?" 
                  "Let the dear girl see that, though we love her so dearly, her happiness is more precious to us than the indulgence of our own selfish gratification; hence, that we will try to be resigned to our disappointment, and bear it as philosophically as we can." 
                  A few moments after, Mrs. Tracy had entered the room, where Benigna still was, to speak the words of comfort and affection so soothing to her distressed heart; she assured her they all appreciated her motives of conduct, and of their continued interest and affection for her. Then, affectionately kissing her, she added: 
                  "And now, my dear child, you must let the Doctor and me bestow upon you a small memorial of our love. You will find it in Emily's work-box, with a few trifles which I mean to leave with you; you must not scruple to receive these farewell mementos of our affection, or we certainly will be very much offended. What! tears again, my child? Nay, I did not wish to give you pain. Let me wipe them away, my love. And now, before we join the Doctor and Frederick, I mean to crave a boon from you, dear girl. It is this, that you will sometimes visit the grave of our beloved Emily, and there pray for her poor mother, that her darling's faith may become hers-may share in the same great salvation, and finally be reunited to her, to spend a blessed eternity together in heaven." 
                  Benigna here was perfectly overcome; she sobbed aloud, and throwing herself in the arms of her friend, she continued to weep. Presently, when more composed, she answered: 
                  "I will do all you desire, my dear Mrs. Tracy, and if wish or prayer of mine can avail, you will not only be favored with all these blessings, but besides be possessed of every earthly good. Yes; dear Emily's grave shall be my Bethel, not only in your behalf, but for the rest of your beloved family, as well as myself; and there will I plant the rose, thyme, forget-me-not, with some other emblematical flowers; and there, too, will I sing her favorite hymns; and methinks her pure spirit, unseen, and unheard by mortal ear, may join in melodious strain." 
                  "Dear child," replied Mrs. Tracy, fondly kissing her, "how glad I am if you will do all this. But I wish you to make me another promise, my dear Benigna-that should you ever come in any pecuniary difficulty, you will let the Doctor and myself be immediately informed of the circumstance, for it would grieve us very much if you were in any need." 
                  "Oh! how shall I thank you, my dearest friend, for your many kindnesses to me?" said the grateful girl. 
                  "By saying nothing more about it," replied her friend, "and giving me the confidence I ask." 
                  Just then the voices of the Doctor and Frederick were heard on the outside of the room, requesting admittance, and directly after, they all returned together to the sitting department. Here several hours were passed in pleasant converse, ere they retired for the night. No allusion was made to the trying event of the morrow; but the family, if possible, were more than usually kind and affectionate to her. 
                  There she sat, between the Doctor and Mrs. Tracy, while Frederick, restless and uncomfortable, was endeavoring to keep down the storm of feeling which so powerfully agitated him. By turns he would sit and gaze upon that sweet face which would soon be lost to his sight, and theft be would leave the room, overcome by his strong emotions. For immediately upon the decision of Benigna being rendered, he had been obliged to make such a promise to the Bishop, in reference to her, as a condition of her being permitted to remain with them until they left, as not only sealed his lips with regard to his own individual feelings towards her, but it had so restricted their intercourse that it could not but be unpleasantly embarrassing to both of them. Hence, he had trusted himself to say but little to her; but this evening he found it particularly difficult to pursue this course. 
                  Almost directly after tea, Bishop Steinberg called to make a farewell visit. He did not stay any length of time. He and the Doctor had the conversation to themselves, for none of the rest of the party seemed inclined to talk at all. But, determining to rally their spirits if he could, the old gentleman exerted himself to be as agreeable and entertaining as possible. He succeeded so far in his endeavors to dispel their gloom, that they all became comparatively cheerful. 
                  And Benigna felt grateful to him for this attention; for thus, this last social evening between herself and these dear friends was divested of many of those distressing circumstances which might otherwise have occurred. And in treasuring it in the storehouse of memory, it prevented many a bitter pang; hence she could ever revert to this period with those peculiar feelings of interest which almost hallowed it in her memory. 
                  But when poor Benigna that night pressed her pillow, and for the last time had her hand closed within Mrs. Tracy's, and thought of her deprivation on the morrow, the cloud burst upon her heart in a feeling of desolation, isolation, and total abandonment of earthly affections, never experienced before. It almost overpowered her resolution. 
                  Presently she sank into a heavy, unrefreshing sleep-into the kind of stupor which is apt to steep the senses of the heavy-laden spirit into temporary oblivion of its sorrows. Hence it is no marvel that she rose languid, and with a headache. 
                  She joined the family at the breakfast-table, where almost perfect silence prevailed throughout the meal. Directly after, the Bishop and Sister Rosalie entered. 
                  By and by the carriage drove up to the door. Benigna hereupon became very pale, and trembled excessively; next, the trunks were carefully arranged. The whole travelling party were ready, and nothing more to be done except the final leave-taking. 
                  Benigna could not rise for the purpose. She held on to the chair for support. There she continued to sit; and thus she received their parting embrace. Each in their turn kissed her, and pressed her lovingly to their hearts, and Frederick among the rest; for not even the presence of the Bishop could restrain him. All wept, and for a space naught could be heard but stifled sobs. 
                  "Angel of goodness!" Frederick softly whispered, "farewell! but never, oh, never forget Frederick Tracy; while dear to my heart will ever be the remembrance of you, dearest Benigna." 
                  In a moment more they had all left her; then, sinking back into the arms of Sister Rosalie, she burst anew into a flood of tears, while the rattling of the carriage-wheels fell upon her ears, and told her they had indeed gone. 
                  Reader! this is no exaggerated picture of the strength of that devotedness of principle which marked the conduct of the pious Moravian disciples of the eighteenth century. It is given as an instance of an entire conquest of self; the subjugation of the strongest passions and affections to a supposed duty; of the perfect prostration of all the powers of the mind, or rather of the soul, even to the trampling into the dust the strongest and most powerful feelings of humanity which the rigid rules and singular regulations of the Society then required-and that, too, in a highly delicate, sensitive, and warm-hearted young girl, whose affections and susceptibilities were remarkably strong and enduring. And such canes have been, and continued to occur as long as the Society retained the elements of their original peculiar character; though perhaps the sacrifices made were seldom of such a very tender nature as are portrayed in this tale. 
                
                
                   
                  CHAPTER XLV. 
                  BENIGNA WALDEMAR, at the time all the trying circumstances occurred which I have just finished narrating, at this eventful part of her life when she made her renunciatory decision, and thus immolated the strongest sensibilities of human nature upon the shrine of a supposed religious duty, was but a little over seventeen years of age. She was still to be regarded almost a child, according to the Moravian ideas of the matter-at least, as far as her marriage was concerned; for, as I have stated, it was an established rule in the Society of that day not to allow any of their Sisterhood ere they arrived at the age of eighteen to be considered a candidate for matrimony. 
                  And how much older in the experience of the heart's secret troubles, how much more acquainted with its sorrows and trials, than any other of the one hundred and forty and more of the maiden associates congregated with her in that Moravian Sisters' House! 
                  And among that band she now again took her place, the fairest and the loveliest; but so sad and pensive, and so truly good. The Sisters all treated her very kindly; and there was a romantic interest with regard to the lovely girl, although the people themselves, generally, had not a particle of romance in their own composition. 
                  From the elderess and Sister Rosalie, especially, Benigna received considerable attention and kindness. So also from good Bishop Steinberg, who seemed henceforth to watch over her with more than his usual interest. But the former of these worthy individuals, Sister Melville, could realize, more than either of the others, the painfulness of her present situation, and sympathized in her distressed feelings; she was very tender and soothing to the four-times rendered orphan. 
                  Her health was very delicate during the winter, and she seldom went out, passing most of the time with the good elderess. In the interval, by the advice of this lady, she constantly kept herself occupied with pleasant and agreeable pursuits. 
                  She expected the monument to Emily to be put up in the spring; and hope whispered in her heart that Doctor Tracy would come to the Settlement with it. Her yearnings towards this dear family continued as intense as ever, and she wished to do something to prove to them her unabated gratitude and fond remembrance. 
                  In Emily's work-box she had found, among other valuable mementos, a purse containing fifty guineas from Mrs. Tracy, with a kind note from that beloved friend, breathing naught but affection towards her; besides, a letter from the Doctor of the same tenor, with an order on his banker in Philadelphia for the sum of either eight hundred guineas, or the interest of that amount at six per cent, per annum-the joint gift of himself and her maternal friend. 
                  "And I trust, my dear child," continued he, in adverting to this bestowment of theirs, "it will prove to you conclusively, that though cruelly disappointed in your decision, we arc not at all offended with you, but will always feel the deepest interest in your behalf. Let the free-will offering of our hearts be considered by you as a pledge of this." 
                  Benigna was very much affected by all this generous kindness and disinterested affection of her dear friends, which rendered her not only independent, but, in that community, considered quite wealthy. "Oh! what can I do in return to show them how truly grateful I am for their great love and kindness?"-and she pondered it over in her mind; then consulted with Sister Rosalie, and coaxed Sister Melville, until she obtained the aid of the former, and the sanction of the latter, to meet the wishes she had formed. 
                  And presently she and Sister Rosalie were sketching and drawing-next a piece of satin was put into her embroidery-frame, and by and by there appeared upon the satin a representation of the Moravian burying-ground in that Settlement, and Emily's grave surrounded by a bed of flowers, all distinctly delineated lineated, with the tombstone containing the following inscription, wrought with her own silky brown hair: 
                        Sacred to the memory of Emily Tracy, daughter of the late Frederick Tracy, of Philadelphia. Aged 15 years, 5 months and 11 days. Of such is the kingdom of heaven.
                     
                   
                  At the foot of the grave was a female figure, intended for Benigna herself in the act of kneeling, and the simple words: 
                        "Her grave shall ever be my Bethel,"
                      while underneath the whole was written, in wrought characters, also with her hair: 
                  "Ellinor Benigna Waldemar, to the mother of Emily, and her own maternal and beloved friend." 
                  This occupation had a tendency to soothe her feelings; and she worked so diligently at it, that she had it all beautifully completed before the arrival of the Doctor. 
                  Yet ere that event transpired, her uncle John came to see her again, on his way to the Wyoming Valley to visit the old family homestead. His brothers and himself had determined to dispose of this property-none of them being willing to return there to live. Uncle John's present object in going there was to make the necessary arrangements for the purpose; and he proposed his niece to accompany him, to look at the place of her nativity, ere it passed into the hands of strangers. 
                  He invited the Bishop, with his daughter and the elderess, to join them. He engaged Brother Leinbach's lumbering stage for the occasion; and the party started off early in May on this pleasure excursion. They were absent about a week. The change proved very serviceable to Benigna; and there were many circumstances in connection with this jaunt which rendered it specially interesting to her. She was shown the site of the house of her birth, her parents' graves, the ruins of her grandparents' parents' residence, the spot in the woods where they all were when they discovered that the savages had fired their dwelling; besides, uncle John showed her the exact spot where the strong box had been buried at the foot of a large forest tree, some little distance from their home, then took her to the ruins of their mill. 
                  Benigna was highly excited by seeing all these places-in reviewing the scenes of her early childhood; but what affected her more than anything else, was seeing the graves of her own dear parents, William and Agnes Waldemar, the former 27, and the latter only 18 years of age. 
                  When our travellers were on their return, they passed near the spot where, twelve years before, this same stage and driver, together with Bishop Steinberg, his daughter, and the Leitners, first made the acquaintance of the Walton family. The place was pointed out to Benigna, whose thoughts then rested with fond, affectionate remembrance upon Elsie, the beloved friend of her childhood and early youth, and she endeavored to picture her in her mind, in her home of happiness and love, and wondered if ever she should be permitted to see her again, and under what circumstances they would meet. 
                  She had not heard from Elsie since directly after the death of Emily, when she received the letter from her I then mentioned. 
                  Uncle John did not accompany them back to the Settlement, being detained by business; but came there about a fortnight afterward. He did not conclude a sale, but he placed the property into the hands of an agent-uncle John expecting to return again, as soon as he found a purchaser for it. It was a large tract of between twelve and fifteen hundred acres-all arable land, and most of it of very excellent quality. 
                  Before he left the place, he heard the history of Benigna's troubles and trials, both from herself and the Bishop; and as he listened to her narration, he strained her to his heart, and exclaimed: 
                  "Well, Ellie dear, I always thought you more than common; but the way you have acted in this business proves to me that you are certainly superior to your sex in general, and to any young girl I have ever known. There is your cousin Delia, who is making all our hearts ache, because she is determined to marry, and go far west, only on account of her being so infatuated with the young man. She will leave us all. It is true, she marries a very clever sort of person-very respectable and all that; but she will not better her condition, as you would have done. I do not understand how you could pursue the course you did, my child; but it is because you are such a dear, good, pious girl, and that is the reason-just like your mother before you, who was one of the most devoted, affectionate creatures I ever saw, and yet would never swerve from doing her duty, cost what it would." 
                  "Was my dear mother so very good?" 
                  "She was an angel!" replied uncle John, brushing away a tear as lie spoke; "and poor William, your father, darling, never seemed the same man after her death as before. But, my dear niece, you must not let your religion stand in the way of your happiness. It is possible, my child, you may have false ideas of duty. These dear, good people here may not after all have the right notions upon the subject." 
                  Benigna explained to him their whole arrangement, to ascertain how to act under every circumstance, and her firm belief in this course of procedure. He was very much interested, being all entirely new to him; then finding that the subject rather annoyed his niece, he immediately dismissed it. 
                  As Benigna's personal expenses had been very little, during the stay of the Tracys in the Settlement, especially after she took up her abode with them, because of their liberally caring for her necessities, almost as if she indeed belonged to their family, her little annuity, in this interval, was scarcely touched. Hence, when they left, she had not only this money, but the fifty guineas, together with the gold coin which Emily bequeathed her. These different sums in all amounted to something more than four hundred and fifty dollars. 
                   
                  By the advice of the Bishop and Sister Melville, she immediately added three hundred dollars of this to her previous little property, making it altogether three thousand dollars. From this the orphan would realize an income, at four per cent., of one hundred and twenty dollars per annum. Benigna had not then read the Doctor's letter, for want of resolution on her part to break the seal and look at the contents. But by the generous bestowment it contained, of the eight hundred guineas, which I have mentioned as the parting gift of the family to Benigna, at six per cent, it made an addition of two hundred and forty dollars more, so that she would actually be in the annual receipt of three hundred and sixty dollars, almost quadruple the amount Bishop Steinberg deemed a sufficiency to support her comfortably in the Sisters' House. Thus the Lord provided for this lovely girl, notwithstanding her lonely, isolated orphanage. 
                  The half-yearly payment on the first amount was now again due; besides, her dividend from the last investment would ere long be rendered, so that she would soon be in possession of considerable funds. But whether this had been the case or not, it would not have prevented the warm-hearted and affectionate girl from sending her little gifts of remembrance to her uncle's family, as long as she had them to bestow. 
                  Benigna gave uncle John thirty guineas; ten of these were to buy a wedding present for cousin Delia; another ten to be divided with aunt Margaret and her other cousins; while the remaining third she requested her dear uncle John to accept for himself. 
                  "And you must buy something pretty with it, dear uncle," she added, "to remember me by when you are far away." 
                  "I ought to be giving to you, dear child, instead of taking anything from you; but instead, give me a little of your glossy brown hair, and then uncle John will always wear his little Ellie near his heart;" saying which he cut off as much as he wanted, and soon afterward took his leave. 
                
                
                   
                  CHAPTER XLVI. 
                  WHEN uncle John had left about a week, the heart of the gentle and affectionate girl was again agitated by the coming of Dr. Tracy. But the tombstone did not come until the succeeding day. In the meantime she passed a great deal of her time with this highly valued friend. The privilege was allowed, notwithstanding the strict rules of the Society, Benigna having proven, so painfully to herself, that she could be trusted; besides her situation with regard to this dear family was so very peculiar, and her feelings so exquisitely sensitive upon the subject, they could not refuse her this indulgence. 
                  The Doctor treated her with the same affectionate cordiality as usual, embracing her fondly, and calling her, as was his wont, his dear child. He brought her quite a long letter from Mrs. Tracy, loving and kind as possible, and a locket with all their hair in it. He brought, too, a message of continued tender regard from Frederick, and Benigna wept as he told her of the warm love he still entertained for her. 
                  "Dear Frederick," said she in reply, "my precious and dearly beloved brother. Bear him, if you please, my most affectionate remembrance, and assure him of the unalterable love of his sister Benigna, and of its being so enshrined in my heart's best affections, that I will probably never marry another." 
                  "Always sacrificing yourself, dear girl; but you must take back that vow, if you have made it-because you would be unjust to yourself, as well as to others, should you adhere to this resolution; for, my child, you are formed for domestic ties, and never can be as happy as you deserve to be, so long as you are in your present condition; besides, Frederick will not marry so long as you remain single." 
                  "Oh, tell him!" answered Benigna, tears almost choking her words as she spoke, "though I wish him never to forget me, yet I earnestly desire he would marry and settle in life; and I shall make it the subject of my prayers, that he may form a happy and felicitous connection. Will you bear him this message from his sister Benigna, my dear Sir?" 
                  The Doctor promised her he would. 
                  She next showed him her piece of embroidery, then quite finished. He was very much surprised and pleased with the whole of the design, and in the name of the family thanked her for it. 
                  "It shall be framed before Mrs. Tracy sees it," he continued, "and I can assure you that the gift will be both acceptable and pleasing." 
                  The Doctor hereupon handed her the half-yearly dividend of the money he and Mrs. Tracy had given her, and made the necessary arrangements for her receiving this income in the future. 
                  The day after the marble had been placed over the grave of Emily, the Doctor left; but not until the bed of flowers was rearranged around it, and a row of box on either side; all attended to by the faithful friend to whose care this lowly burial spot was now anew consigned. With the Doctor, Benigna sent a reply to Mrs. Tracy's loving epistle, thus recommencing their correspondence. 
                  The next event to be recorded here in relation to my story, and which caused considerable talk, not only in the place, but elsewhere in the Society, was the marriage of Rosalie Steinberg. It occurred four or five weeks subsequently to the visit of Dr. Tracy, though the providence, which brought it about, began to be developed some months anterior to it. 
                  The main circumstances of the case were these:-I have spoken of the missionary efforts of the Moravians among the aborigines of our country. Since the dreadful massacre of some of their converts on the banks of the Muskingum in Ohio, the tragedy I mentioned a few chapters ago, the attention and sympathy of the Society had become, if possible, more excited in their behalf, producing a universal, intensified sentiment of commiseration for them among their people, with a renewed pledge on their part to be ready, when called upon, to do whatever they were able to ameliorate their sad condition. 
                   
                  And no individuals in that Settlement, perhaps, had their feelings more powerfully wrought upon for these forest children of America than Rosalie Steinberg and Benigna Waldemar; nor did any one possess a stronger desire to see both their moral and spiritual state improved. They were alike quite enthusiastic upon the subject-the young orphan, and her mature friend; the former, notwithstanding the distress and trouble her family had experienced from the original heritors of our soil. She truly forgave them for it all, evincing this disposition as soon as she acquired her property, by appropriating a portion of her income to their especial benefit. 
                  The wrongs and sufferings of the poor Indians were frequently now the theme of conversation. Sister Rosalie and Benigna directly were deeply interested; indeed, so much so, that each was anxious to render their race every service in her power; and both under the impulse of their feelings would gladly have gone themselves among them, to manifest their regard by laboring, as missionaries, for their welfare. The youth of Benigna, and other considerations, however, forbade her from making this sacrifice. 
                  But these obstacles were not in the way of Sister Rosalie, sixteen years her senior-in good health, and full of energy, resolution, undaunted courage, and perseverance in any enterprise she engaged in. She sent a memorial to the Missionary Board of the Society, desiring them to present her as an offering to the Lord, to join the valiant corps of female warriors employed by the Society in the Indian camp of the great enemy, there to raise the standard of the Cross, and help to dislodge the arch-deceiver from the fastnesses of their hearts, bringing them to willing subjection to Divine leadings, to fit them for heirs to a heavenly inheritance. Her proposition was acceded to, and she accepted this blessed vocation. 
                  Yet ere she went to her field of labor, a poor, humble missionary, remarkably awkward and unprepossessing in appearance, having very ordinary talents and acquirements, but of exemplary character, and devotedly engaged in his work, came from the Indian country to marry. Annie Dohlman had a brother associated with this missionary, a circumstance which perhaps caused the Conference to think first of her-but the "lot" not favoring this match, another Sister had to be proposed, when the elderess suggested Sister Rosalie, who was affirmatively drawn. The missionary, highly delighted, immediately signified his pleasure at the result, but anxiously awaited her reply, almost anticipating a refusal. 
                  And some, besides himself, wondered whether this highly intellectual woman, capable of charming the most refined society, would consent to link her fate for life with one so vastly, her inferior in education and mental endowments. Unhesitatingly she promptly replied "yes,"-for their sympathies were the same in behalf of the poor Indians, while their hearts would be drawn together and united by a common love to the Saviour, enabling them in sweet companionship to toil together in the vineyard of their Lord. 
                  Such were the sentiments which impelled the heroic and devoted Rosalie Steinberg in making this decision. And she consented to become the helper of that man of God in his work of arduous duty, and prepared with firmness to leave her excellent and venerable father, besides many endeared and highly-valued friends. They were married; soon afterwards Sister Rosalie took her departure from the home of her youth, nor did she ever see it or her beloved aged parent again. She left a void in the place not easily filled, consequently was very much missed. 
                  We follow Rosalie and her husband to their destination, where she engaged with her whole heart in performing all the duties of her mission; there we leave her for a space, while we write of others of the Sister band in that Moravian Settlement. 
                  She had scarcely left the place when the storekeeper again presented himself as a candidate for matrimony. His second choice was Caroline Hoffe; and every attendant circumstance being favorable, they were married. Dorothy Stoltz, about the same time, became the wife of the newly-appointed tavern-keeper of the place. This couple were admirably adapted for each other, and for the business they undertook-both understanding their department remarkably well-he how to make the purchases and attend to the duties of a host, while she was thoroughly acquainted with the mysteries of table preparations, besides being an excellent manager and housekeeper, and filled the situation with credit to herself and profit to the Society. 
                  To speak of other events which transpired. Death had been busy among the missionaries in the West Indies, and Surinam, in South America. Sophy Dohlman and Susan Stoltz, with their husbands, were transferred to the latter place; both of these Sisters had died with the yellow fever-and the husband of the latter, in like manner, became the victim of this fell disease; while in the West Indies, Mary Weiss was left the sole representative of her missionary company. 
                  The marriages of all these different parties, causing at the time so much surprise to Elsie Ashley, were supposed to have been well-chosen connections. At least the missionaries and their partners were mutually so devoted to their work, and so pleased and satisfied in the performance of all its duties-so united in faithful co-operation of labor, they ever seemed happy and contented. Thus, although naturally there might have been little or no congeniality between them in disposition, manners and feelings, the pious sentiments which had prompted their union, and their intimate companionship, produced an assimilation which supplied the place of the tenderness of passionate affection. 
                  All the deceased were valuable in their calling, and it was necessary immediately to supply their places. Germany and England sent the requisite number, except one couple which were to be provided from this country. The Brother appointed came from North Carolina, and the Sister chosen for his wife was Mary Ann Schneider. They were destined for Surinam, for which place they almost immediately afterwards started; but on their voyage the husband died, and the widow, instead of returning, chose to remain in Surinam, where, after a suitable time, she married the former husband of Sophy Dohlman. 
                   
                  Not many of the maidens whose names I gave at the commencement of this tale now remained in that Moravian community to be disposed of. Of the others I shall presently speak. All the above changes occurred between five and six years after Elsie Ashley had left the Settlement. 
                
                
                  CHAPTER XLVII. 
                  Now turn we back through the vista of by-gone years, to trace the subsequent history of the stricken deer, wandering away from the fold of which she had been an interesting member, and so tenderly beloved. 
                  Edward Walton and Elsie Ashley were married as soon as they rejoined their kindred. Immediately after this event, they, with their mother and Robert, located themselves at Newburg, then a small village, where the brothers established themselves in business. The hardships endured in their captivity had severely tried their constitutions; and the health of their mother was considerably impaired. These were the only circumstances which, at that time, cast a shadow upon the pathway of Elsie Walton, who, tenderly beloved by the whole household, cordially participated in all their concerns. Here, almost idolized by her doting Edward, and surrounded by every comfort which he could bestow, she revelled in the enjoyment of her domestic affections. 
                  Her habitation was situated on the summit of the steep ascent on which the town is built, and she had before her one of the most beautiful prospects in the world of rich and varied scenery, of the sublime and picturesque. In this delightful spot her life glided on in one unbroken dream of delight. 
                  Three years had she passed in this elysium of bliss. At this period she was the mother of two fine boys, which perfected her domestic felicity; yet it seemed, if possible, continually to increase, although the cup of her earthly blessings apparently was already filled to the brim. But at this juncture she was reminded of the perishable nature of these enjoyments, by the sudden death of Mrs. Walton, their dear mother, and as she dearly loved her, it caused her much grief. 
                  Three years afterward, prosperity smiled more than ever upon her; for wealth was pouring its golden treasures into her lap; besides, her beloved Edward had entirely regained his health, and their boys were remarkably bright and promising. Added to these blessings, they had a lovely infant daughter, the most beautiful and engaging little thing imaginable, now just at that interesting age when she was beginning to lisp, in infantile language, the names of persons and things. 
                  In the midst of this domestic happiness, she heard from Benigna Waldemar of the marriage of their friend Sister Rosalie. She contrasted her strange union with her own bright destiny; and no marvel if the heart of that happy wife and mother recoiled now, more than ever, from a Moravian marriage by "lot." 
                  The brothers at this time determined to extend their business, and contemplated some important changes which would render it necessary for one of them to reside in the metropolis. Robert, who had recently married, preferred to remain in Newburg. It was therefore settled that Edward should be the partner in New York. 
                  Just then, the heart of the affectionate Elsie was pierced with a new and keen sorrow. Sickness and death came upon her little ones, and her blooming boys, with their sweet little sister, were, one after the other, borne to the grave. To add to her affliction, Edward was away when all these bereavements occurred. He had started for the city a day or two previous to their sickening, and did not return until they were all buried. That childless mother now refused to be comforted-nor was a smile seen upon her countenance until she pressed another darling in her maternal arms. 
                  Several months after her bereavement, and when her little daughter was only a few weeks old, Edward again left her for New York, to make the final arrangements for the removal of his family thither. He took with him some of his furniture, and sailed in a sloop, at that time the most convenient mode of navigating the river. He had not gone much more than a day, when he was overtaken by a sudden squall which capsized the vessel. This occurred during the night, and all on board perished, except a man and a boy. 
                  Thus was she again stripped of nearly all her domestic blessings. The deprivation of her children in such rapid succession had well nigh made her frantic; but the sad catastrophe of her beloved Edward's death, her devoted husband, proved to her a much severer calamity. A season of darkness now passed over her soul; she lost the hopeful spirit of her youth, and with it her trust and confidence in God. The tempter was then busy, and her mind became enshrouded in gloomy fancies. She thought God both cruel and unjust, to deal so harshly with her; and she imagined that she had become an especial object of his vengeance. 
                  In this distressing period, not even the presence of her lovely child consoled her, but added to her sufferings; for, while she looked at her sweet, innocent face, and traced there the lineaments of the dear departed, it vividly brought to her remembrance the idol of her heart, who had found a grave beneath the waters of the Hudson. She could not bear to look out upon that noble river, which seemed to her like a funeral pall covering his beloved remains. 
                  Soon after, her friends removed her to New York, where she scarcely arrived ere she was seized with a violent brain fever, and became alarmingly ill. In her delirium she imagined herself alternately at Gracehill, Dublin, in the home of her childhood, in the Settlement with her Moravian friends-but most frequently in the midst of her own smiling family, surrounded by her husband and children. Once, after such imaginings, she aroused to the consciousness that fond recollection had but reflected the past; then, while the painful realities of her present situation forced themselves upon her mind, her attention was directed to the solemn voice of prayer offered up in her behalf. The tempest of her strong feelings was subdued for the moment while she listened, and she wept bitterly. It was the minister of the Moravian Church in this city whose voice she heard, and whom in her delirium she had frequently desired to see. 
                  A few weeks later, this bereaved and heart-stricken widow and mother was again a resident of that Moravian Settlement. Her friends had been induced to yield to her wishes in this respect the more readily, in the hope that an entire absence from those who constantly reminded her of her perished joys, together with the change to scenes she loved so well, would prove serviceable in restoring her to health. 
                  They judged rightly; for the calm contentment of the people, their peculiar habits, their abstractedness from the world, together with the manner they were connected with various portions of her eventful life, had a beneficial effect Besides, was not Benigna Waldemar there?-her sister-orphan friend-that sympathizing spirit of affection whose kindly ministrations in seasons of sorrow, in the days of her girlhood, had so often lulled her feelings into almost forgetfulness of it. 
                  Her return to the Settlement was unannounced, and it caused some sensation when they saw her, who had gone forth from them so full of happiness and bright anticipations, return there, a bereaved and almost heart-broken widow; and so fearfully changed that she scarcely bore the semblance of her former self. 
                  The affectionate Benigna no sooner heard of the arrival of the friend of her early youth, than she hastened to her, It was full seven years since the reparation of the orphans, and how many changes had occurred to each of them in this period! How diverse had been their lot! How different their destiny! The one had lived, it would seem, the most of that time a charmed life, in the possession of every earthly good she desired, under a cloudless sky, quaffing as great an amount as possible of happiness, enjoying prosperous circumstances with the highest degree of domestic felicity; while the other, though experiencing some happiness, had nevertheless so much bitterness mingled in her cup as almost to overpower her. 
                  Yes; Elsie had been basking in the sunshine of every temporal ral blessing; while poor Benigna was not only in the shade, but heavy clouds of sorrow and anguish were descending in torrents upon her devoted head; and even when these cleared away, and athwart her horizon there appeared a bow of promise, ready to encircle the lone orphan, we have seen how new griefs and trials encompassed the pathway of the lovely girl, and enshrined her heart in trouble and gloom. Then again, when the distress and suffering of bitter bereavements came upon the happy wife and mother, when the angel of death passed into her dwelling and set his signet seal upon one, then another, and afterwards twice more upon others of the cherished idols of her home and heart, an unearthly messenger at the same time went forth to her Sister Benigna, and comforted her poor bruised spirit, cheering and supporting her with the consolations and hopes which Heaven alone can bestow. 
                  Such had been the different destinies of these sister-orphan friends; but now how changed! And though they met, both with a cloud upon their hearts, how different were those clouds! the one dark and threatening as the tempest storm-the other, even as the fertilizing vapor of a gentle spring shower. 
                  Yet although they thus met, with hearts steeped in the experience of life's strange vicissitudes, yet they were as mutually and fondly attracted to each other as on their first acquaintance, about a dozen years before; for, although each had added brighter links to the chain of their earthly friendships, none were enshrined in their memories with more enduring and fond recollections than this one; and with regard to Benigna, she renewed, with an especial degree of interest, her childhood's attachment to her beloved instructress. 
                  Elsie reaped the fruits of this in the intense devotion of Benigna, who endeavored, by unwearied kindness, and unremitting attentions, to change the current of her painful feelings, and soothe her mind to a peaceful serenity. Again she proved the blessed comforter-the ministering angel-the sweet spirit of consolation-the all in all to her poor afflicted friend. 
                  Her past trials with the mercies which accompanied them, had but increased her faith in the loving-kindness of her Heavenly Father; and, with an unwavering trust in His goodness, she regarded all the circumstances of her eventful life as directed by infinite wisdom and love. She possessed the confidence of a child who is under the provident care of kind parents; the peace of the believer who casts all care upon the Lord. This faith in God, the only anchor of the soul, sure and steadfast, made her ever happy, always contented. Faithfully had she studied her Bible, and she esteemed the Scriptures more valuable than gold, "yea, than much fine gold, sweeter than honey or the honeycomb." And from the never-failing treasury of its promises, she now drew rich stores of comfort to cheer the desponding Elsie. The pupil of by-gone years became the expositor of Divine things to her former teacher of human lore. 
                  The mind of her widowed friend nevertheless continued for some time in a morbid melancholy state. Sometimes site imagined herself the victim of her own selfishness, and she deemed it necessary to discipline her natural sensibilities with regard to her little Grace, on whom she had concentrated all the intensity of her maternal love. She feared that she too might become a cherished idol, and in consequence, God in anger would take her away. 
                  The little Grace was an infant not a year old when she brought her to the Settlement, soon after which she had her baptized and called by this name in remembrance of her father's burial place, and her own first acquaintance with the Moravians. And when that solemn act was being performed, that grief-stricken one stood not alone before Bishop Steinberg and the Congregation; beside her was her faithful friend, who, at Elsie's request, promised to assist her in rearing this bud of promise for the garden of the Lord. She was the child's only godmother, thus forming another tie between these orphan friends. 
                  Elsie found a home but a short distance from the Sisters' House, which enabled the twain the more easily to be together. This, under the circumstances, was particularly pleasant to both; and the melancholy spirits of Elsie gradually dispersed in the atmosphere of her Benigna's judicious attentions, her gentle, soothing presence. 
                  A short period only subsequently to this arrangment, both the friends were thrown into some agitation by the rumor, that one of the Brethren, about to be married, intended to ask for the lovely Sister Benigna. 
                  As the experiment made with Wilhelmina Leitner had proven very successful, and she was happily settled by the decision of the Church, some of the members of the Conference thought it advisable, in short, the best plan, to pursue the same course with Benigna, in providing her a husband as speedily as possible. But the cases were widely different-and the characters of the two Sisters as much so; and no sooner did Benigna hear the report than she hastened to Sister Melville, and earnestly implored her not to allow her name to be put upon the list. 
                  "My poor heart," she continued, "has not as yet subdued any of its powerful affection for my beloved Frederick!" 
                  Accordingly her name was withdrawn. 
                  Soon afterwards, and while sitting upon the grave of Emily, Benigna confided to Elsie the history of this sad tale; and told her besides, the particulars of the sickness and death of her friend-of the wishes of the family with respect to herself, and of their love and generous kindness. 
                  "Thus you see, my dear Elsie, that I too, though never a happy wife as you have been, carry about me alike widowed heart, blighted in its affections, and withered in its hopes;"-she wept much as she spoke; and as Elsie listened, she marvelled more than ever before at the strength, depth, fervency, as well a purity of the piety of this sensitive and affectionate girl. 
                  "But how, my dear Benigna, were you able to conquer this strong, this powerful affection?" 
                  "It is not yet conquered," she replied with a deep-drawn sigh, while the tear started in her eye; "but, my dear Elsie, prayer alone nerved me to the sacrifice; and it is prayer alone which will enable me finally, entirely to overcome it, and to cast from my heart its fondest, greatest idolatry." 
                   
                  It was now more than a year since her heart had been made to endure this trial; yet it remained as fresh as ever in the memory of Benigna Waldemar-and she felt that all the beloved family of the Tracys could not but ever be fondly cherished in her remembrance. 
                  Soon after this conversation, Bishop Steinberg being superannuated, another Bishop had to be appointed. This Moravian Brother was a widower, and from Germany. Ere he left Europe, he desired to be provided with another helpmate. Such marriages were usually decided only by the Unity's Elders' Conference. Accordingly they took the subject into consideration. 
                  They proposed several of the Sisters successively, all of whom being negatived by the "lot," it was suggested that on account of his intended removal to America, perhaps his bride was to be selected from there. For this reason they inquired of the Lord whether they were to offer a Sister in Germany, or of this country-and the answer being in favor of the latter, the expectant bridegroom Bishop was asked if he had any choice in the matter. But he had no particular acquaintance among the marriageable portion of the sex here; however, after some little hesitation, he mentioned Augusta Moehring. He formerly knew her father very well, when she was an infant in her mother's arms. He had further knowledge of her personally-but understanding her to be both pious and sensible, and withal a suitable person, he desired she should be tried. The "lot" sanctioned the match, and she consented to marry him, even before having the opportunity of seeing him. 
                  Nor did she withdraw her promise afterwards; although he was not only in the vale of life, but very eccentric; and so singular in his appearance, that I question if there was ever another person in the whole world of the same pattern as himself. 
                  But this Bishop was a superior man in point of intellect and worth of character; and among his brethren, he ranked high for his literary attainments and godly zeal. His bride-elect was more than thirty years his junior, and some of his children were her seniors in age. 
                   
                  This singular marriage took place about six months after the return of Elsie to the Settlement, and in her absence to New York, whither she went with Mr. Bradford, the husband of her cousin, who came there expressly for that purpose. 
                  Kate had now quite a numerous family, lived in considerable-style, and had a large circle of visiting friends and acquaintances. She gave Elsie a warm and cordial greeting, and a kindly invitation to remain permanently with her. She stayed several months, but the. gay company and scenes of pleasure she now mingled in were not at all congenial to her calm, pensive disposition. In fact, she preferred the quiet of that Moravian Settlement, with the companionship of her friend Benigna; hence, by and by, she again returned there, but with the expectation from her cousin that she would ultimately make her house her home. 
                
                
                  CHAPTER XLVIII. 
                  DURING the absence of Elsie, Katy Isles, one of little Crissie's sisters, became very ill, and Benigna remembering her promise to her deceased mother, immediately took charge of her. She faithfully nursed her, and showed every possible kindness to the little invalid, who was a very delicate child, and had not much stamina to her constitution; she was now eleven years of age, and with her sister, was at present in the Unity's school in the place. 
                  When Elsie returned from New York she found Benigna still employed in her kindly ministrations to the sick child. 
                  At this period Benigna had become much more cheerful, which made some of the good people fancy that she could now be considered as a candidate for matrimony. Accordingly, they determined to offer her to the next worthy Brother whom they thought a desirable person. 
                  Elsie had scarcely dropped her melancholy when this proposition was made. It greatly distressed her, being fearful of losing the companionship of her friend. Benigna was tried, but the "lot" negatived it; she, however, knew nothing of the circumstance until afterwards, when she again besought Sister Melville not yet to subject her to this trial, because still disinclined to form such a connection. 
                  The friends now frequently took their work with them to the burying-ground, and there seated, near to the grave of Emily, would remain in pleasant converse, sometimes for several hours; they were accompanied generally by the little Grace and her nurse. 
                  Presently, they several times encountered, in this receptacle of the dead, a tall, pale, elegant young man, an entire stranger, who seemed to regard the twain with melancholy interest. He was evidently a foreigner. By and by, they discovered among the bed of flowers with which Benigna had adorned the last resting-place of her friend, some new varieties of hardy roses; and then, as Benigna looked around, she saw that same pale, elegant-looking young man attentively observing her. She blushed, and directly afterwards she and Elsie hastily withdrew, and from that period they ceased to go there. 
                  A few weeks subsequently, that same young stranger applied for admission to the Church, and was received; afterwards became employed in the Society; and among all their laborers, none were distinguished for more zeal, talents, and fervent piety, than their dear Brother Lieber. 
                  But I am anticipating in my story. I return again to my Sister-friends. Elsie and Benigna, I say, now ceased visiting Emily's grave. But winter was at the door, and the weather soon became too cold and disagreeable for them to remain there for any length of time. 
                  The winter passed; then came the spring, the second since Elsie's return to the Settlement, and the fourth since the departure of the Tracy family. It found Mrs. Walton almost restored to her wonted serenity of mind, while Benigna, in like manner, was becoming much more tranquillized in feeling. 
                  Both were exceedingly interesting in appearance. Elsie had recovered much of her previous beauty, while Benigna was far lovelier than ever. Indeed, her beauty proved a great annoyance to her, for as it was so remarkably striking, it continually attracted the attention of strangers visiting the place, and subjected the good Moravian people to considerable anxiety on her account. She therefore felt obliged to seclude herself from observation until such persons were gone. 
                  She still maintained a correspondence with the Tracys, though they wrote seldom; but their letters were as kind and affectionate as ever. In the last she received, written by the Doctor, ho mentioned that Frederick and his mother were then on a voyage to Europe, where they expected to remain some time. They went on account of Mrs. Tracy, whose health was rather delicate. 
                  A little later than this, Brother Lieber accepted the call of a teacher in one of the Moravian seminaries, and commenced at the same time to prepare for the ministry, He was a graduate of one of the Universities of Germany, and belonged to a highly respectable family. 
                  Nothing of especial note occurred to our friends for a period of several months; then Benigna was again proposed for one of the Brethren. This time she knew of it previously, and had given a reluctant consent; but fervently prayed that, if her affections were not yet in her own keeping, the Lord would show it to her by this decision of "the lot." 
                  The marrying Brother, who earnestly desired her as his bride, was a clergyman settled in a neighboring Settlement, in a very responsible situation. Benigna was thought particularly suited for this place, as well as to become his wife. 
                  Elsie was fully aware of this, and the thorough consecration of her friend to the service of the Saviour, and she trembled with apprehension as to the result. Again her anxieties were aroused, lest she should lose her sweet Sister-friend, who, by her kindly attentions, had so soothed her frenzied spirit, so cheered and consoled her-thus inspiring her with new life; and that, too, at a time when her continued influence, example, and conversation seemed particularly necessary to her; and very glad was she when "the lot" proved adverse to this connection. 
                   
                  "I feel perfectly satisfied with the result," was the remark of Benigna to her friend. 
                  "Why?" 
                  "Because it is not my destiny; I am persuaded of this in my own mind, and, therefore, would not have accepted it. Besides, I am not certain that I could, even now, conscientiously plight my faith to another, for my thoughts have rested a great deal upon dear Frederick ever since this proposition came before the Conference." 
                  "That is quite natural, dear Benigna," replied Elsie. 
                  "So my mind feels much relieved by this decision. Indeed, I am very thankful for it, because my heart said nay; and I fain would not refuse a call of the Church." 
                  "Then you, too, my dear friend, notwithstanding your experience of the happiness of a desirable reciprocated affection-your realization of the delight of loving and being beloved, with your ardent nature, your delicate sensibilities, are really willing to conform to this strange regulation of your Society? " 
                  "Certainly!-if I marry, it is my duty to do so; nevertheless, I must confess that I would on this very account prefer to remain single, though this does not seem to be my destiny." 
                  "No," said Elsie, smiling; "you will have to marry one of these days, I suppose, if it is only to satisfy the anxious desires of some one of the dear Brethren who are candidates for that honor. I understand that there are several at present who are all hoping, and perhaps praying, that you may be reserved for them." 
                  Benigna looked grave upon hearing this. 
                  "I am sorry if such be the case-because should I marry either of them, the rest will be disappointed; but I am glad that I will probably thereby inflict no real sorrow upon any of their hearts, since it is merely a preference-not a real affection." 
                  "Then how would you be guided in coming to a decision with regard to accepting any of the Brethren?" 
                  "All my desires and wills, dear Elsie, are absorbed by my love to the Saviour. I wish to follow His leadings, and be directed rected entirely by Him. Hence should a proposition of this kind be made to me, which I believe was ordered by his Providence, I should feel it a duty to accept it." 
                  "And yet the 'lot' might approve of a Brother who really would not be a suitable person, or perhaps one you could never like, and you, my dear friend, might thus be rendered perfectly miserable." 
                  "I can scarcely conceive this a possible circumstance." 
                  "Yet I do," answered Elsie; "because you have such strong sensibilities, you certainly would feel a want of congeniality or indifference very acutely." 
                  "I have never thought of all this before; and I thank you, dear Elsie, for speaking to me about it-because this must form a subject of my prayers for the future. But with regard to my accepting any proposition of marriage, my dear friend, because it might place me in an embarrassing and perplexing situation, I have earnestly prayed that I may never be affirmatively drawn, except for my destined husband." 
                  "Then may it be long ere the 'lot' thus decides," said Elsie, affectionately, "unless you can still be near me, my beloved Sister. But what childlike, simple faith in Divine Providence you possess, my dearest Benigna. Oh! that this poor, weak, suffering heart of mine could thus subdue its will and inclinations-could love the Saviour as you do; I could then surrender myself with the like submission to the Divine disposal. More and more do I realize that I have permitted earthly creatures to have a stronger hold on my affections than my Creator." 
                  "This has probably been the case," said Benigna; "and when we allow poor perishing humanity to occupy an undue share of our affections, to interfere with the paramount love and devotion we owe to our Lord, he frequently removes the object from us; for you know he is a jealous God, and will not endure a rival." 
                  "I recollect," replied Elsie, "that Rosalie Steinberg told me that such an act would bring its own punishment. But how shall I attain to this acquiescence in the will of God?" 
                  "By prayer and faith in the providence of God. We should follow the precept I lately read. It was from the writings of an ancient divine. He says: 'that we may not complain of the present, let us view God's hand in all events; and that we may not be afraid of the future, let us view all events in God's hand.'" 
                  In many such conversations did Benigna Waldemar, in her own simple way, seek to instil her pious principles of trusting faith and holy love upon the heart of her friend Elsie. Nor did she toil in vain. Elsie's piety, which had suffered in the blessings which she enjoyed, now revived; and that lone widow, purified in the furnace of her afflictions, became resigned, hopeful, submissive, and even cheerful. 
                  The correspondence between Elsie and her friend Rosalie had ceased since the marriage of the latter. She now received a letter from her; it was exceedingly interesting. After entering somewhat minutely into her various occupations and pursuits, she described the general character of her little Indian flock, of whom she gave several interesting anecdotes; told of her hopes and fears concerning them, and then expressed perfect contentment in her destiny. "I am happier now than I ever was in my life," she continued; "and believe me, my dear friend, that I would not willingly exchange my humble lot for that of any other." And here we will trace out the missionary history of this Moravian Sister. 
                  As soon as she arrived at her destination, she engaged with her whole heart in performing all the duties of her mission. There she found herself in a situation where she had an opportunity of doing much good. Her active and pious disposition rejoiced at this pleasing prospect, was unwearied in its efforts to benefit her charge. She established schools among them, and had the honor to educate some who became the most distinguished characters in their nation. Thus she lived on, highly respected by every one who knew her. 
                  Her forest children soon discovered her botanical and geological taste-her universal love for all creation. And frequently, to gratify their beloved instructress, they would bring her the choicest wild flowers of that region of country-besides the most curious stones, minerals, insects, etc. Thus she collected a considerable herbarium, together with a valuable quantity of other natural curiosities. 
                  And gold, too, in its pristine purity they found and brought to her. The passing stranger was wont to stop at her humble dwelling to refresh himself, and to look at her store of nature's wonders. He saw the gold-recognized the precious ore, and by this chance a discovery was made of the gold mines of that country. 
                  Trouble almost immediately followed upon the wake of this. The white settlers in the vicinity no sooner learned the fact, than they coveted the country, and sought to dispossess their dusky neighbors of their rightful inheritance. But they did not directly succeed. 
                  In the meantime, our Sister Rosalie faithfully and cheerfully toiled on in her arduous work. And even when suffering from declining health, with a smile upon her care-worn but benevolent countenance, she would gather together her little Indian flock, tell them interesting Bible or missionary stories, then raise her sweet voice to sing some one of the Moravian hymns which she herself had translated into their language. 
                  Yet, although she had to contend with many trials, not a murmur of discontent ever escaped her lips; nor did she manifest the least regret at her destiny. Her affectionate heart soon became truly attached to her kind, but illiterate husband, who in return appreciated her noble disinterestedness, her exalted worth of character. Each cordially assisted the other in their glorious work of evangelizing the heathen; in truth, they were a very happy couple. Thus they lived on even to old age. 
                  During the latter part of Sister Rosalie's life, her brow was clouded with care of fearful anxiety and gloomy forebodings concerning her beloved Indians. For the white inhabitants of the State more and more craved their rich lands; these resorted to cruelties as a compulsory measure-trial after trial succeeded, hence they were obliged to emigrate. 
                   
                  All this very much affected the tender heart of their beloved teacher; but ere this event took place, she died, Beneath the spreading branches of a large forest tree, in the cemetery of that beautiful Indian missionary Settlement, she was interred. She chose the spot herself. It was close by the remains of the first fruits of her mission. Here the Indians planted the wild flowers she loved so well, hedging them in with the most beautiful stones they could find, while around her humble grave they were wont to repair during the continuance of their brief sojourn in the place; to recall to remembrance her heavenly teachings-to drop the silent tear of regret-and to chant a requiem to her memory in some versified language of her own. 
                  Her husband did not long survive her; he, too, was buried amid the scenes of their labors, among some of their dear Brethren and Sisters who had preceded them into eternity. And here may their bodies sweetly rest in peace until the morn of the resurrection, when we trust they will arise, bringing many sheaves with them, as jewels in their crown of rejoicing. 
                
                
                  CHAPTER XLIX. 
                  IN following out the history of Sister Rosalie, we have travelled over a space of more than a quarter of a century; for so long did this faithful and devoted servant of our Lord toil in the missionary field. Hence, to continue our narration where we left it, we must retrace our way through the vista of all those years, to the Moravian Settlement, where the rest of the principal actors in my story were living. 
                  To return to Elsie. After the receipt of the letter from her friend Rosalie, which I mentioned in the last chapter, she still remained in the place for several months, when she again went to New York. 
                  Her little daughter, the treasured resemblance of her beloved Edward, and the only link now surviving of her perished happiness, was a very lovely, engaging, and healthy child. The fond mother watched her with all the intense anxiety of deep maternal affection and interest. And as she noted her expanding intellect, marked the development of her character, earnestly she prayed for strength and wisdom to guide and instruct her darling, so as to fit her for a life of usefulness upon earth, and for happiness hereafter. Elsie thought she perceived that little Grace inherited her warm, impulsive disposition, and possessed in many other respects the lineaments of her own character. All these she determined to discipline, so that they should not be productive of the sorrow she had herself experienced; while she relied on the kindly co-operation of her friend Benigna, in assisting her in instilling religious impressions upon her yet almost infantile mind. 
                  While thus engaged, she pondered upon the future locale of herself and child, a question she was expected soon to decide. She had become so much attached to her present mode of living, with the place and the people, that sometimes she thought seriously of settling permanently among them, and was exercised in her feelings about rejoining the Society. 
                  One stumbling-block alone deterred her. It was the Moravian regulation regarding their marriage. And not on her own account, for as yet she had not any idea of contracting a second marriage; but the mother considered her child. She anticipated far off years, when her daughter's young spirit, with the rich coloring of a new-born fancy, might pant for companionship in a kindred being, and seek happiness in a husband of her own choice. Could she, ought she, even to check such predilections, subdue all these natural, instinctive heart cravings; would she be willing to have her conform to this arrangement, or deem it proper thus to train her? Elsie found herself not yet prepared to answer these queries satisfactorily to her own conscience. 
                  Again and again, in the lapse of time, marriages occurred in the place. She had seen both young and old readily acquiesce in this singular way of disposing of themselves for life. And though strange, indeed, were some of the alliances thus formed, all, as far as she was able to learn, were contented and satisfied. Pour of them, besides Augusta Moehring's, especially excited her astonishment. 
                  One was the marriage of a superannuated clergyman, a paralytic, to quite a youthful Sister; but so deaf that she could scarcely hear the voice of her feeble partner; besides this, she was rather lame. However, she had a kind heart, was pious, economical, and very affectionate, while he bore an excellent character. These qualifications it seems were deemed sufficient to insure their mutual happiness. 
                  Another instance was that of a recently widowed missionary, who wrote to the Conference for another helpmate, who he especially, desired should be a good nurse; he, being rather ailing, wished a companion who possessed this qualification, and besides, could bear with the infirmities of peevishness and irritability. The Conference acted upon his suggestion, though with what success my chronicler did not inform me. I doubt not, however, that he obtained just the mate he wanted, notwithstanding the unpromising prospect he presented; and methinks, as Amelia Schmidt went forth, about that period, to wed a missionary, and being a kind-hearted, amiable creature, that she probably became the wife of this invalid. 
                  The third instance was among the laity; a young man whose choice fell upon a needy widow with several children, and nearly a dozen years his senior. 
                  The last case was that of Louisa Moehring, who married a recent arrival from Germany-a physician of considerable skill and practical knowledge, who was a widower with several children. This marriage excited some surprise, as the opinion generally prevailed she never would marry again; and besides, their tempers and habits were totally dissimilar, with no congeniality whatever. But among the Germans it was quite common for physicians to intermarry in each other's families; and as Louisa's two brothers were still children, the Doctor could be associated with her father, and presently succeed him. Such were his hopes and expectations tions when forming this connection, and his principal reason for desiring it. 
                  Elsie was very much astonished at all these marriages. 
                  "I am sure," said she to Benigna, "that in the world at large, the first would be frowned upon as unwise and injudicious. Neither of these parties would be considered fit subjects for matrimony. The second would appear too much a matter of convenience and necessity-nor does the next seem right or proper; and Louisa Moehring's, I cannot but regard altogether on the part of her husband as a matter of expediency and policy." 
                  "But all these dear Brethren and Sisters wanted a comfortable home, with a kind companion to cheer and take care of them." 
                  "No doubt of that," replied Elsie; "and I question not their worthiness to have one; yet think how strangely nearly all of them are mated, and then what infirmities and cares some of them will have immediately to contend with." 
                  "I grant what you say, dear Elsie; and this anticipation certainly presents no flattering inducements to the natural mind, seeking its own selfish comfort and enjoyment; but you know it is our duty to assist one another in bearing the burden of life; and if we are called upon to lighten the load of a dear brother in the Lord, we ought to be willing to do so, and in the path of duty we find our happiness." 
                  "What excellent creatures you single Sisters are!-how kind and disinterested!-and how eloquently you defend this strange custom of yours!-but I am not yet a convert to the system." 
                  "Nevertheless, I predict that you will become so," replied Benigna, looking affectionately at her friend. 
                  "That is not a likely circumstance." But Elsie spoke not as confidently as heretofore. In fact, she began to be conscious how far her predilections for the Moravians were influencing her judgment with regard to all their peculiarities. 
                  This conversation took place in the Sisters' House, and here it was interrupted by the appearance of Sister Winny with a letter to Elsie. 
                  Only a few days after this conversation, Benigna was again before the Conference for one of the Brethren to whom I have alluded; and about two months subsequently, for another; but each time the "lot" proved unpropitious; and Benigna was all the happier for it. 
                  "This way of marrying," remarked Elsie to her friend, "has, I perceive, one very great feature in it to recommend it. It is that it saves all the mortification and disagreeableness usually accompanying the refusal of an offer of marriage." 
                  Benigna looked inquiringly. 
                  "You know nothing of this, my dear friend," continued Elsie, "and how unpleasantly our sex are sometimes situated in consequence. Besides, in your manner of marrying off your people, all seem to have a chance to be disposed of; the poor as well as those in better circumstances; the old as well as the young; and the homely have as good an opportunity as the best-looking among you. Indeed, several who, as far as I can learn, have nothing at all to recommend them but their piety, were mated, since I have been here, to some of your best and most desirable characters." 
                  "And yet you will find, I think, dear Elsie, that their marriages have generally turned out well." 
                  "I believe such to be the case; yet, notwithstanding this, dearest Benigna, I cannot think it possible I could ever subscribe to this arrangement; that I could ever marry by lot." 
                
                
                  CHAPTER L. 
                  A FORTNIGHT after, Elsie was again in New York, her presence being required there in reference to some business connected with the settlement of her late husband's estate; also to choose a guardian for her little Grace, in the place of her cousin Robert Walton, who, on account of very delicate health, desired to relinquish this trust, held by him since the decease of his brother. 
                  Robert was constitutionally subject to an inflammatory disease, which had lately assumed a very painful character, so as to render him a confirmed invalid. His physicians, in consequence, ordered him to go South-they recommended a long voyage, and he expected to be a considerable time in a tropical climate. It was very possible, however, he would not survive to return. Elsie arrived in the city only about a week previous to his embarkation. She found him and' his whole family with Kate. 
                  The cousins had not met since the early part of her widowhood. It was not for want of interest or affection in either; but Elsie could never nerve herself sufficiently to revisit scenes which would forcibly remind her of her past happiness and subsequent trials; while Robert had not found it convenient to come to New York when she was there, or to seek her in the Settlement. Both were much agitated on their first interview. 
                  After this feeling had subsided, Elsie consulted him regarding Grace and the future management of her business affairs; and, by his advice, desired the brother of Mr. Bradford, a highly respectable man, to act in his place on behalf of her fatherless child. To this the gentleman very willingly consented; but it soon became evident that, with this responsibility, he would have been well pleased to have added the charge of taking care of the mother; and no marvel at this either, since he was a bachelor, and Elsie still a very beautiful woman. 
                  Mr. Bradford was of suitable age, and wealthy. But although the bitterness of grief for the untimely death of her husband had entirely passed away, she was not yet prepared in feeling to yield to another his place in her heart. Hence, when he made his proposal in due form, she firmly rejected his offer. 
                  In this visit, Elsie was to determine her future home. Her friends urged her to come and reside with them. Yet she consented not to this arrangement. 
                  In truth, her present manner of living was now most congenial to her. Elsie realized this as she probed her feelings upon the subject. Her association with the Moravians had been fraught with so much real pleasure and happiness, that she could not bear to leave them-and her partiality to them was really so great, that, as I have intimated, all her prejudices were not only considerably lessened, but were evaporating now, every one, save the "marrying by lot." 
                  But, notwithstanding, though she herself continued unconscious of it, a great revolution was taking place in her mind concerning this arrangement; yet she hesitated ere she would finally come to a decision on this question; but it was settled and expedited by the proposition of Mr. Bradford. 
                  Almost directly upon this occurrence, and on the eve of her departure from her cousins, she informed them of her wish to remain permanently among the Moravians; and soon after her return to the Settlement, she reunited with the Society-adopted all their peculiar attire, with the strange cap of the Sisterhood, together with the grave gray ribbon, the badge of their widowhood. And though dressed thus unbecomingly, and her luxuriant, beautiful hair entirely concealed, yet her fair, pensive, and expressive countenance was still irresistibly attractive-indeed, nearly as much so as in the days of her happy girlhood. 
                  During her absence Benigna had borne her in affectionate remembrance, and, as a token of her friendship, had wrought for Elsie a beautifully embroidered apron, and a mantle for little Grace. These she immediately presented to her friend, who, in turn, had brought her several as acceptable gifts from New York. The two friends now dressed exactly alike in public, with the exception of the ribbon badges of their respective classes in the Society. 
                  Six years had now nearly passed since the death of Emily Tracy; and quite four from the return of Elsie to the place. Mrs. Walton was at this period thirty-six years of age, and Benigna twenty-three. During the visit of the former in New York, Brother Leiber offered himself as a missionary. He was accepted, but not immediately appointed. His health at this time was rather delicate. He then resided in the Settlement. 
                  A little later than this, one of the fraternity who had lived a life of celibacy for almost half a century, suddenly became enamored with the bondage of matrimony. He held the office of Senior Civilus in the Society. The incumbents of this office had the superintendence of the temporal affairs of the whole Society, or a considerable portion of it, in representing the property of the Unity, together with other important matters in connection with it. In short, they were the public functionaries of the Church, in managing their temporal affairs. Hence their situation was one of great responsibility and trust, and generally held by men of some consequence among them. 
                  The Brother of whom we are speaking was deserving of all this consideration. He was really a very estimable, worthy character, sensible and amiable, besides rather fine-looking, and genteel in person. This good man I shall call Herman Von Blankenstein. 
                  The Conference were quite astonished when this dear single Brother presented himself before them with the request to be married. 
                  "Have you any Sister to propose?" they inquired. 
                  "Sister Walton," he replied. 
                  Accordingly they tried her. The "lot" was propitious to his wishes, but the lady would not agree to it. She immediately sent him a negative answer. 
                  Brother Von Blankenstein was much disappointed; not disposed to give up the hope of ultimately succeeding in his object, he resolved to make all the effort in his power for the purpose; and fain would he have personally proffered his suit, but this liberty not being allowed, in lieu of it he interested her elderess, who spoke to her warmly in his behalf; but in vain-she had no effect whatever, except causing Elsie to weep, when she again decidedly declined the proposition. 
                  A shadow was now seen to rest upon the hitherto placid brow of the Senior Civilus. But nevertheless, Herman Von Blankenstein, who knew something of human nature, had a little encouragement because of her tears. Yet he resolved to wait a while. Thus two or three months passed, when he re-appeared before the Conference on the same matrimonial business, with the desire to have Sister Walton re-tried. 
                   
                  Again she was affirmatively drawn, with precisely the same results-Elsie as promptly sending her refusal. A deeper shadow now clouded the fine countenance of Herman Von Blankenstein, as he notified his associate Brotherhood that he had changed his mind, and would probably continue one of their number. 
                  Time had long since reconciled Elsie to her widowed condition, yet she was perfectly content at the present to remain as she was; indeed she had not the slightest wish to marry again. Hence the perseverance of the Senior Civilus, of whom she had no personal acquaintance whatever, really annoyed her. 
                  To relieve herself from the disagreable quandary in which she was placed in consequence, she resolved to quit the Settlement for a space. But where should she go?-not to her cousin Kate, because there she would be brought in continual daily association with her former admirer, who resided with his brother. But she concluded to visit Robert's wife, who was sojourning on Long Island during her husband's absence. She made her arrangements accordingly; but Providence often interferes with our determinations, and what is fated to be will certainly occur. 
                  It so happened, that but a brief period subsequent to this last trial by "lot," and only a day or two previous to her contemplated journey, Elsie and Benigna, with little Grace, took a long ramble together. It was a summer afternoon, in the month of May, and one of the religious holydays of the Society. The two friends had much to say; they were deeply engaged in conversation, so much so that they became perfectly absorbed in the subject-matter of their discourse. At length, soon after ascending to the summit of a hill, they found a comfortable place. Here they resolved to halt a while, to rest, and enjoy the beautiful scenery of the surrounding country. 
                  Just then the mother missed her child, who had, unconsciously to her, loosened her hold-how long ago neither she nor Benigna could tell. First they called her, supposing that perhaps she had strayed away, lured by some butterfly or wild flower; next they retraced their steps in terror and agonizing apprehensions, ever and anon loudly repeating her name, and looking about in every direction. 
                  Presently down a steep declivity, beneath which flowed a stream of water of sufficient power to turn a mill hard by, they perceived little Grace, apparently senseless, Elsie, supposing her dead, uttered one dreadful, heart-rending shriek, and fainted. Benigna, now wholly unused to scenes like this, became excessively agitated. She tried to restore her poor distressed friend, and partially succeeded. Yet she was so excited, that she scarcely dared to leave her. She begged her to try to compose herself, while she went to seek assistance. 
                  "No,-no!" exclaimed she, vehemently, "do go first to my little darling-to Grace-save her, my only one-my precious child. Oh, the water-the dreadful water! Oh, God of mercy, save my child!" 
                  There was a by-path down the hill, only a short distance off. Hither Benigna now sped with rapid step, and soon reached the spot where the child lay. At first, from her appearance, she supposed her dead. Upon examination, however, she found her to be living, but in a state of insensibility. 
                  Benigna attempted to raise the little girl, in order to remove her from her perilous position; for the mill was in operation, and the current below quite rapid. The movement somewhat aroused her. She immediately thereupon commenced feebly to moan. Again Benigna put her arm around her, and succeeded, in getting her a little way from where she was; but the child betrayed so much suffering, that her tender-hearted friend, fearful of adding to it, gently put her down. She then thought of hastening to Elsie to report to her the condition of Grace-when she discovered the poor mother, with tottering steps, endeavoring to come down the hill. Benigna ran quickly to assist her-but ere Elsie arrived at the place where her daughter lay, she again fainted. 
                  Benigna called aloud for help-bat none came. She had next to reflect upon the best means to obtain the requisite assistance ance. They were considerably more than a mile from the Settlement-and not a house within half that distance, except the miller's, and his home was behind a hill on the other side of the stream. From the thick brushwood and ruggedness of the road, his habitation was very difficult of access from the place where they were. The more she pondered upon her situation, the perplexity increased, what first she ought to do, or how to act. 
                  There lay the mother and her child a few paces apart-both helpless-the former unconscious, and the latter almost so. She feared to leave them, lest they should roll into the water. To add to her distress, the sun was nigh setting. But Benigna Waldemar had a never failing friend, always near at hand to help her in every trouble. To that sure source for succor, she now appealed. For a space she could, do nothing but pray, and most fervently did she beseech Heaven kindly to come to her aid. 
                  At this juncture, she thought she heard the footfall of a horse--and on straining her vision, she caught a glance of a horseman at a distance. Then loudly she screamed for help, which fortunately was heard, and almost immediately afterwards, to her great joy, the rider turned his steed, and came directly towards her. 
                
                
                  CHAPTER LI. 
                  THE individual who thus opportunely came to the assistance of these lonely and hapless females, was no other than the Senior Civilus. As he neared her, Benigna immediately recognized him, and blushing, told her tale of troubles; then pointing to her prostrate companions, besought his friendly aid in their behalf. Thereupon he dismounted-looked first at Elsie-regarded her attentively for a moment-then ran to the water-side-dipped up some in his hat-returned, and placed it in the hands of Benigna with direction to sprinkle her with it. Again he observed her, and with marked emotion. Elsie began to revive; when, suddenly recollecting himself, he left her and went to the little girl. 
                  The Senior Civilus had been bred a surgeon; his presence therefore was the more opportune. Carefully he examined the child. He found one of her arms broken and that she was otherwise much hurt-to what extent, however, he could not directly ascertain; but he believed, not dangerously. He tried to make her as comfortable as he could under the circumstances; in the meanwhile speaking soothingly and kindly to her. He then went again to her mother, now much better, and reassured her of the safety of her child. 
                  All this time Elsie had not been informed who the stranger was. 
                  "May I ask," she inquired, "to whom I am so greatly indebted, that I may ever bear his name in grateful remembrance?" 
                  He did not reply, but looked at Benigna. 
                  "Brother Von Blankenstein," she murmured. 
                  Elsie blushed. All were embarrassed. In a moment she had recovered herself, when, extending her hand with her usual suavity of manner, she warmly thanked him for his kindness to herself and child, and then requested his further aid to get them home. 
                  Our worthy Brother essayed to reply, but ventured not to trust himself, lest he should infringe upon the rules of the Society, which prevented anything like a particular conversation between their unmarried Brethren and Sisters. He merely took her hand in return, and cordially pressed it. 
                  He then left his fair companions, and in a brief space returned, accompanied by a man and gig, in which the trio were closely stowed-the Senior Civilus himself attending to the careful placing of the child in the arms of her mother. Again Elsie expressed her acknowledgments for his considerate attentions. The vehicle then moved slowly along-Brother Von Blankenstein on horseback keeping close to it, until they were about entering the Settlement, when, fearful of giving offence, or occasioning unpleasant remark if he was seen with the party, he respectfully bade the Sisters farewell, and turned into a byroad. 
                  The limb was so inflamed that it could not be set immediately; but the opinion of the Senior Civilus was corroborated by Doctor Bender, who pronounced the child, though severely bruised, not dangerously injured. Yet she was an invalid in consequence, and confined almost entirely to her room for fully two months. 
                  Some weeks had passed since this unfortunate event happened. During this period, the child became pale and emaciated. The Doctor recommended the open air, to invigorate her; but there were no public carriages of any kind in the Settlement. She had, therefore, to be taken in the arms, and being nearly five years of age, it was rather a wearisome business. Even her stout, strong nurse, a German Redemptioner, complained of it, as an irksome and fatiguing task. 
                  But if there were no carriages in the town, there was the large, lumbersome stage of Brother Leinbach's, and two gigs-one belonging to the Doctor, the other to the Senior Civilus. The former of the two last-named was so constantly in demand by the physician, that he could rarely loan it; while that of the other was promptly offered for their service, together with the driver thereof. At first, perhaps, Elsie felt a delicacy about accepting this kindness from, Brother Von Blankenstein, but her feelings for her child predominated; and daily for weeks did the little invalid, accompanied by her mother, take a comfortable drive in this vehicle; and henceforward the health of the child visibly improved. 
                  The next occurrence we shall mention is the intended marriage of a missionary, who had just accepted a call to North Carolina, to missionate in several of the infant settlements near Salem. He was a dearly beloved Brother, of fervent piety, devoted zeal, and endowed with more than ordinary talents. Besides, he belonged to the superior class in the Society, and was uncommonly prepossessing both in appearance and manner. With such a character and qualifications, no marvel that his marriage became the subject of unusual interest among the Sisterhood. 
                   
                  Annie Dohlman, who was still mateless, looked upon the interesting countenance of this dear Brother, and, notwithstanding the disparity of their ages, would gladly have called him her own-so also would a sister of Louisa Moehring, and several others. Then again did poor Annie assume the sanctity of superior piety; she became remarkably affectionate and amiable; and expressed herself more than she was wont in favor of missionary life. And hereupon louder than ever before did she raise her tuneful voice, and though, for aught I know to the contrary, her strains may have been as sweet as those of the dying swan, they availed her not. 
                  He was not predestined for her; but for a much fairer, lovelier, and youthful bride, whose mind was of kindred mould-while there was, besides, considerable resemblance between them. These peculiarities had been noticed by their mutual friends, who had long anticipated their union, as one which had certainly been made in heaven. The name of this Sister headed the list given to the Conference by her partial friend, the elderess; and no surprise, but great pleasure, was manifested when it was announced that Benigna Waldemar was the chosen and accepted wife of Theodore Lieber, this dear missionary Brother. 
                  The dear orphan's prayer of faith had been heard, for she immediately felt perfectly satisfied with the choice of the Church, and unhesitatingly accepted the proposition. 
                  Yet ere the betrothal took place, some urgent business required the presence of her chosen one in Philadelphia. He had, however, scarcely reached there, when he became very ill. It so happened, that the people with whom he stayed were acquaintances of the Tracy family, and the good Doctor was visiting there at the time. He had long retired from his profession, but would occasionally practise among his friends. He directly prescribed for Mr. Lieber, and, by and by, he heard that he had just come from the Settlement of my story, which gratified and pleased him exceedingly. Then he made numerous inquiries;-asked him if he knew Benigna Waldemar-and, oh! how deeply was he Interested in listening to all the information he gave concerning ing her-but more than all, when he heard of her intended marriage. Nor did he wait to hear the name of her chosen husband, ere he commenced eulogizing her. 
                  The Doctor said he knew her well, and had for many years; he thought her the most lovely young lady he had ever met with-a perfect character-a model for her sex. He told of the circumstances of his acquaintance with her. His own wishes and Mrs. Tracy's regarding her; the affection of his sister's children for the sweet girl; the particulars of Emily's sickness and death; the hopes and desires then entertained by himself and the bereaved mother concerning her; the history of the attachment of Frederick for the beautiful girl; how she, too, so fondly reciprocated his affection; of her consequent sufferings; then how her piety triumphed over her affection; and how she resigned him, and them, rank, position and wealth, for the sake of a religious duty. 
                  "Yes, she is a dear good girl," continued the Doctor, "and whoever obtains her will indeed possess a prize. I hope he is worthy of her." 
                  "I am afraid not," said Mr. Lieber, "but I can answer for him, that he will try to render himself so." 
                  "I think you have not told me his name. Pray what is it?" 
                  Mr. Lieber looked somewhat embarrassed a moment; then smiling, told him it was himself. 
                  The good Doctor was taken by surprise; yet he immediately congratulated him; then added: 
                  "But I hope you love the dear girl; for Benigna Waldemar, notwithstanding her piety, could not be happy in marriage without the affection of her husband." 
                  "Make yourself easy about that, my dear sir; no one can know her at all without loving her; besides, it was the magnetic influence of her own dear self which first brought me to unite myself to the Brethren's Church-that made me what I now am. And, singular as it may appear, at the grave of your beloved niece my acquaintance with her commenced-and it was there that I first learned to pray; for previously I had been a sceptic, or what is denominated a Neologian. But I heard her sweet voice engaged in fervent pleadings with her Saviour; and as I listened, I thought she was indeed communing with heaven. I no longer doubted, but believed in revelation. I sought her again and again; but presently she came no more thither. I then learned the rules of the Society, forbidding intercourse between the unmarried people, and believing her to be my good angel, and, restless and uncomfortable in my present condition, I faithfully attended church in order to see her. 
                  "But I never could attract her attention-she was too devout-too thoroughly engaged in the services-a true daughter of the Church. Presently I became religiously inclined, and prayed. Hereupon the Holy Spirit strove with me. I became seriously impressed, and I humbly hope I am now renewed in the Divine image. Thus my Benigna's faith is mine, and I trust we will be one in heart and mind." 
                  "How interesting!" said the Doctor. "Pray have you told her all this?" 
                  "I have not," replied Mr. Lieber. "Indeed we have only had one brief interview; the rules of the Society permitting very little intercourse until after betrothal. Ours is to take place soon after my return." 
                  "Then, when will you be married?" 
                  "I do not yet know-the time is not fixed, but probably soon after, as the period between betrothal and marriage in the Society, is generally very short." 
                  "Then I must expedite your recovery as quickly as possible, my dear sir," said the Doctor, quite excited upon the subject, and besides, much pleased with this Moravian Brother. 
                  In truth this news concerning Benigna much affected this excellent man, and caused a great many thoughts and feelings in his generous and kind heart. 
                  "The dear child," said he to himself, "must have an outfit, and I certainly will give it to her." 
                  Accordingly he consulted his sister, Mrs. Parish, and a female cousin, and presently a quantity of linen and cotton cloth for various domestic purposes, a variety of dry goods for apparel, some silver spoons, a purse containing two hundred dollars, besides a large wedding cake, and a box of wine, were all carefully packed up, and dispatched to the Settlement, for Benigna. 
                  Two or three days afterwards, they came safely to their destination, with a kind letter from the Doctor; but Mr. Lieber did not return until about ten days later. 
                  Benigna, however, during this interval, received two letters from him, in which he bared his whole heart before her. He gave her a brief history of his previous life, together with all the particulars he mentioned to Doctor Tracy. And as she learned of the beautiful spiritual flower she had been instrumental in causing to spring up from the grave of her Emily, the gentle girl became not only powerfully affected with emotions of gratitude to her Heavenly Father, but it immediately strengthened the interest, and warmed the affections of her heart towards her chosen husband; while it confirmed her belief that her union with this dear Brother was indeed a Heaven-directed destiny. 
                
                
                  CHAPTER LII. 
                  IT was the afternoon of the day subsequent to the arrival of all Dr. Tracy's kind benefactions, that the two Sister-friends were seated in an arbor in the Sisters' Garden, which was separated from the public road outside, by a thin wooden fence The twain were engaged in earnest conversation, while little Grace, now perfectly recovered, with her nurse, was some distance off, rambling about under the shady trees. 
                  The countenance of Elsie looked sad, while that of Benigna was radiant with her blissful anticipations. 
                  "There is no one, dearest Benigna, believe me, rejoices more in your prospects of happiness; and yet I am so selfish, I cannot but grieve about it, because I must then lose you." 
                  "That is the only alloy to my felicity at the present," replied Benigna; "I only wish that my place could be supplied before I leave." 
                  "But who? how can this be done, Benigna? How can I ever find a friend who would make me as happy as you have done?" 
                  "Well I imagine you might; perhaps dear Elsie, it would not be so difficult after all," replied Benigna, smiling. "For example, if you could only make up your mind to take our worthy Brother Von Blankenstein, I think he might answer all the purpose. He is a very good man, and I believe would be affectionate and kind to both you and little Grace; and really my dear friend, I have fancied that lately you were not so averse to this connection as formerly." 
                  "Hush! Benigna, dear," said Elsie, somewhat confused, "I think somebody is near us. I thought I heard breathing and moving quite close just now." 
                  "I fancy you are mistaken. Now, do tell me, dear Elsie, have you not changed at all in your feelings towards our Brother since the accident to Grace!" 
                  "I certainly have," she promptly replied; "because I am now grateful to him for all the kindness he then rendered us, as well as for his attention and politeness since that time." 
                  "It seems to me, dear Elsie, that you ought to have regarded him as intended for you, as 'the lot' decided it so twice." 
                  "There it is again!" exclaimed Elsie. "I certainly did hear retreating footsteps;" saying which, they both rose, and walked off to another part of the garden. 
                  Elsie was right, and their whole conversation had been overheard by the party most interested in it-the Senior Civilus himself, who happened to be seated upon the other side of the fence, with a book in his hand. 
                  From this date the good man's countenance appeared more cheerful, and about a week afterwards he again presented himself before the Conference. 
                  "What now, my dear Brother?" inquired one of the members. 
                   
                  The Senior Civilus stated his business He wished, as before, to be proposed for marriage; and mentioned the same Sister. 
                  Some objection was made, because Sister Walton had already twice refused him. But Brother Von Blankenstein would allow no other Sister to be tried. Again "the lot" drew affirmatively. 
                  Then the elderess, for the third time, submitted this proposition Elsie, observing at the same time, it really did appear as if the Lord intended her for this dear Brother. 
                  Elsie remembered that Benigna had expressed the same opinion. She was impressed by the strange coincidence; and did not, as before, send back a refusal, but requested permission to pause awhile, ere she decided. 
                  As I have stated, time had long since softened the anguish caused by her bereavements-had made her resigned to these sad dispensations of Providence. And hers was a heart which keenly felt its isolation, and craved companionship. Then she thought of the kindness of the Senior Civilus, and in pondering upon it, she realized that, perhaps, he might conduce to her happiness-that it was possible for her to be happy with a husband for whom she entertained no stronger sentiment than respect and friendship. 
                  Yet still she hesitated for a brief space-then desired an interview with her proposed partner, which, though not customary, was granted; after which it was announced that Sister Walton had consented to marry Brother Von Blankenstein. 
                  No one, of course, was so delighted, or more cordially sympathized with this information than Benigna, who felt perfectly satisfied that her friend had well decided, and would be happy in this connection. 
                  Presently Brother Lieber returned. He brought with him a very kind letter to Benigna from Doctor Tracy, regretting his inability to be present at her marriage. It gave her a pressing invitation to visit him on her way to her new home in Carolina, which Mr. Lieber had already half-promised to do. 
                  Elsie and Benigna were at the same time betrothed to their respective partners. This ceremony took place soon after the return of Brother Lieber from Philadelphia, accompanied with the usual simple refreshments of bretzel cake and wine. 
                  It was not until after this period that Elsie and Benigna could meet their affianced husbands without the restraint of witnesses. But only a short time intervened from this date until they were married; and both of the parties on the same evening. Bishop Steinberg, by the particular request of all, performed the sacred rite. 
                  And, in the presence of the whole congregation, the two friends, side by side, pledged their vows to their chosen bridegrooms. The marriage proceeded as usual. The parties were brought in by the elder and elderess of the married people. Elsie was married first; and when she exchanged the gray badge of widowhood for the blue one of matrimony, she shed her last tear for her beloved Edward. Like the rest of the Sisterhood, she received her husband in faith, regarding him as given by Heaven to be her companion for life-her fellow-associate to eternity. And although her feelings towards him were far different to those she entertained for the idol of her youth, yet the constant interchange of kindness produced reciprocal regard, with a corresponding interest and affection; together they journeyed through life, really very happy and contented. 
                  And Benigna-the sensitive, gentle, affectionate orphan, she, too, was happy-yea, superlatively happy; for never was there a more felicitous marriage. And ere she doffed the pink ribbon of maidenhood to don the matron's badge, her heart glowed with a strong attachment toward her affianced husband, who already was indebted to her for an heirship to heaven; and ere she gave him her hand, with pleased willingness was prepared to accompany him to his field of labor, where she encouraged him in his high resolve, assisted and supported him in his work; aiding his piety by adding flame to his devotion. 
                  But I am, as usual, anticipating; for I must not forget to mention that uncle John was present upon this interesting occasion. Benigna had, directly upon her marriage being decided, written to her family to acquaint them with it. At the same time, she expressed pressed a great desire to see this dearly beloved relative before she left that part of the country; he had therefore come on expressly for the purpose, and only a few hours before, the ceremony took place. 
                  He was very much affected by the whole circumstance; and when he saw her in her simple bridal attire, after straining her fondly to his affectionate heart, he turned to Mr. Lieber and said: 
                  "You have got an angel, my dear Sir, and may you be worthy of her. 
                  Nor must I omit to notice, if only briefly, the wedding-feast which took place upon this auspicious event; it being in some respects different from that of any previously had at the Settlement-besides, quite an innovation upon the customs of the Society at that day. Yet it bore the stamp of pure, primitive Moravianism in its most distinctive, peculiar regulations-since it purposed to admit scarcely any save married persons, and the Single Sisterhood friends of the brides. 
                  It was held at the lodgings of Elsie, where a bountiful supply of all the suitable good things which could be procured, had been provided, and were displayed to be disposed of by the assembled guests-and among them, the wine and wedding-cake sent by Doctor Tracy for the occasion. The latter, which was handsomely frosted, and of considerable size, was mounted upon a table and surrounded with a wreath of freshly gathered white roses tied together with blue ribbon, and an arch placed over the top, bearing the names of the newly united pairs. 
                  But if the mateless portion of the male representatives of the Settlement were not allowed the privilege of being invited guests to this marriage festival celebration, it did not prevent them from arranging themselves outside the house, and playing upon various wind instruments an epithalamium, as a complimentary farewell testimonial to those of their number who had just left their ranks. 
                  And further, when they had continued their pleasant serenade for some time, casting meanwhile, ever and anon, wishful glances at the fair scene within, of innocent hilarity and delight, no marvel that it excited the sympathies of both Elsie and Benigna, and-if for no other reason but as a sense of their appreciation of their kindly intentions in their behalf, and to reward the gallantry of these single Brethren-that they should desire them to be permitted to participate in this festive entertainment. Hence they craved the indulgence of Bishop Steinberg and the other officials present. 
                  Yet ere they had granted it, and were discussing the propriety of it, uncle John, not fully aware of the circumstances of the case, in a measure anticipated them; for, by his direction, Sister Winny, and another old Sister, were distributing refreshments to these worthy sons of their Church. An amusing colloquy followed-the Bishop putting on a grave countenance, and affecting to remonstrate upon the subject; then, after a short consultation with his Brethren, and a little coaxing from the fair brides, the interdict for a brief space was removed, during which interval, there was a mingling of the bachelors and maidens of that Moravian Settlement. 
                  It produced not a little excitement, yet, although all were more or less at first embarrassed, the feeling soon disappeared in the pleasurable emotions it produced. This unexpected occurrence added materially to the enjoyment of the evening, while it gave a peculiar interest to this marriage festival. I need scarcely add that the celibates, one and all, deported themselves upon the occasion according to the strictest notions of Moravian rules of decorum. But as everything upon earth has an end, and all our joys are fleeting, so this delightful season of innocent gayety of heart had to terminate. In fact, the whole of this pleasant festivity lasted only two or three hours, and between ten and eleven o'clock in the evening the Settlement was restored to its usual state of quietude. 
                  About a week after this, Benigna had bidden farewell to the Settlement, so long her home, where she was so tenderly beloved, and, with her husband, Brother and Sister Von Blankenstein, and little Grace, was on her way to Philadelphia. There our two orphans had their leave-taking. They both felt it much, yet the exciting circumstances of their present situation considerably lessened the pang of their separation. 
                  Almost directly upon the arrival of the party in the city, Benigna had the inexpressible pleasure of being clasped within the parental arms of the good Doctor Tracy. She wept for very joy. 
                  "Oh, my dear father-friend, how glad I am to see you; and to know that you smile upon my marriage, renders my happiness complete. And you must promise to love me still-to love Benigna Lieber as well as you did Benigna Waldemar!" fondly embracing him as she spoke. 
                  He returned her affectionate caresses and replied: 
                  "Always, my dear daughter, so long as you are the same dear lovable creature you now are; but we must take care not to make your husband jealous, my child." 
                  "Oh! you are a privileged person, my dear Sir," said the happy Mr. Lieber, smiling, "and I imagine this is not the first time that ray Benigna has broken our rules on your account." 
                  "There! what say you to this charge, my dear girl?" said the Doctor, laughing. 
                  "That I plead guilty to it;" then turning to Mr. Lieber she continued: "I had nothing else I could give in return to the most generous and best of friends an orphan was ever blessed with." 
                  And from this truly excellent man, and some of his friends, the lovely bride received considerable attention during her brief sojourn in the city. He then took the young couple to his own home, where he liberally entertained them. There she saw the pieces of embroidery she had presented to Mrs. Tracy. They were in handsome frames in the drawing-room; and there, too, were the portraits of Mr. and Mrs. Tracy, together with three of their children-Frederick, Emily, and a little boy of about three years of age; while the adjoining apartment contained that of the Doctor, with his wife and daughter. The whole house was elegantly furnished with old-fashioned, but exceedingly rich, massive furniture; and everything about the premises indicated comfort and wealth. 
                   
                  It was with peculiar feelings that Benigna sat as a visitor in the house where she might have lived as the daughter, and its ultimate mistress; but she had never regretted her decision-nor did she, of course, now-for she felt that the guiding star of her destiny had directed otherwise to her present lowlier lot-but rich with the promises of hope and blissful anticipations. 
                  Her feelings towards Frederick Tracy were now entirely conquered. Yet she still felt, and ever would, an affectionate interest in his behalf. She made many inquiries concerning him and his dear mother. The Doctor informed her they were just about returning to the States, and that Mrs. Tracy was much improved in health. She gave the Doctor many kind messages for them. 
                  "And tell dear Frederick, if you please, that I never can forget him-and I hope he will ever kindly remember his sister Benigna, who will always continue to pray for his health and happiness." 
                  Not long after this, Benigna was in her Southern home, and in the possession of all the blessings which a well-assorted union, combined with contentment and happiness, can bestow. Having thus happily settled her, my story will now soon be finished. 
                  We will only briefly glance at the condition of the others of the Sisterhood, not yet disposed of, who belonged to that array of Sister-maidens, whose names I mentioned at the commencement of this story. I think I have given the marriages of all but six. Two of these, Annie Dohlman and Frederica Englehart, never married; the former on account of the infirmities of her temper-crooked and meddlesome disposition-while the latter remained single from choice. 
                  Henrietta Koelbing, together with Angelica and Maria Rauch, all married mechanics-the first to a very ingenious workman while the two latter married cousins-and all were worthy, respectable characters. Veronie Miller also married. Her husband was quite a wealthy man-a friend of her brother-in-law-but he did not belong to the Society, consequently she lost her church membership bership; which, however, was renewed some years after, when she returned to the Settlement-soon after which they both joined the Church. 
                  I have now mated more than thirty of my Sisters, according to ancient Moravian rules and regulations; yet, ere I leave them, let us peep into a letter from one of their number to another, written several years after their marriage. It is from Sister Von Blankenstein to her friend, Sister Benigna Lieber. She says, after speaking of several other matters: 
                  "And with regard to your question, dearest Benigna, what I now think of a marriage by 'lot,' I have much to say, did time and space permit; suffice it, however, for the present, for me to tell you that I am far happier in my second marriage than I ever expected to be again in this world. My husband is all I could desire-kind, tender, and affectionate to me and my children; and though, in some respects, we do not yet think alike, it does not produce the least disharmony between us. 
                  "We have now two children-one son and a daughter-the latter bears the name of my ever dear friend, Benigna Waldemar. Brother Von Blankenstein first proposed it, when he told me that he believed he was indebted to you for me-for he was behind the arbor, and heard the whole of our conversation about him, which encouraged him to ask for me the third time. How strange the whole of this is! and to think that, after all, I should have married by 'lot,' and be happy, too, in such a marriage. I fancy I see you smile, dearest Benigna, but it is because your prediction is verified. And I rejoice, too, my dear friend, at your connubial happiness-that you have such an excellent husband. Surely we both have drawn prizes in the matrimonial lottery; and, no matter what the changes may be in our Church, let us bring up our children to follow our example when they marry." 
                   
                  Reader! my task is now done. Yet ere I part with my candidates for matrimony of either sex-be they young or old-bachelors lors, maidens or widowed-high or low-rich or poor-yea, in whatever rank or condition they are, let me wish them, one and all, that when they marry, they may form as happy a connection as the primitive Moravians of the olden time-in a Moravian Marriage by Lot.
                   
                
             
            THE END. 
         
       
   
