
    ----CITATION----
        Kimball, Richard B. (1816-1892). To-day .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC7009
    ----FULL TEXT----
         
      
         
            To-day 
            
                  TO-DAY :   POPULAR NOVELS, BY   ICOHARD B. KIMBALL, SAINT LEGER,     -      P1ice,# $1 75 UNDERCURRENTS,       -"       1 75 WAS HE SUCCESSFUL?         "   1 75 HENRY   POWERS, Banker,      "   1 75 ROIANCE OF STUDENT-LIFE,       "   1 75 IN THE TROPICS (Edited),      C   1 75 TO-DAY, (Just Published),      (   1 75 EMLILIE-- A Sequel to "Saint Leger." (In press.) "Mr. KIMBALL'S books are remarkable for their happy com- bination of fancy and sentiment. They possess a perpetual charm to the reader; and, being of the higher order of literature, are growing more and more in- dispensable to every library." *** Al elegantlyprinted, and bound and sent by mait postagefree, by Carleton, Publisher, New  York.        .   TO-DAy: :              UIV EIOP UNTS S H  BY RICHARD B K MBALL, EW   OR POE   TO "But we-we aie-to Us the breathing T "he Present is a King in disgUise."-Emerson. NEW YORK: Car^eton, Publisher-AMadiso Square. "EIPSIC: TAUCHNITZ. M. DCCC LXX. #  .    .s   Entered, according to Act of Congress, in the year 1869, by RICIAERD B. KIMBALL, In the Clerk's Ofice of the District Court of the United States for the SoutherD District of New York. McCIREA &A MLLER, STEREOTYERS ANTD BLECTROTY PES b0 Greene Street.   CONTENTS. BOOK I. PAGE. I.-LONDON--PARIS-NEW YORK. ...................... " II.-INTRODUCING SEVERAL PERSONS IMPORTANT TO THS HSTORY .............................      15   III.--IN WHC THE ASIA REACoES HER DOCKir .      81 IV.-A GLANCE ACWAD...........................     4 V.--HENRY R. S. T. Du BARRnY......................... 63 VI.-THE RIVALS AT TIIE "SELECT SCOOL." ..............70 VII.-THE CHURCH OF THE APOSTOLIC SUCCESSIO .......... " VIII.-LITTLE CLARA AND IER ASSOCIATES.         89 IX.-THE BATTLE OF SCOTENSKOPFT.................. 100 X.-BILL IIOLT COMMTS SACRILE ...................... 10 X1.-rTHE METROPOLIS. .    ......................... 115 XII.-SCHOOL DAYS...........118 XIII.-HoW THE RECTOR OF THE CHURCH OF THE APOSTOLIC SUCCESSION rECAME RECTOR OF TlE CHUICH OP THE MRACULOUS PRESENCE ........................... 122 XIV.-GREAT  HANCGES WHEN LEAST EXPECTED ............. 136 XV.--T4E WILL ........... . ..... ..................... 142 XVI.--SEPARATION ............  .................   10 t , , ^   vi           CONTENTS. BOOK II. I PAGE. I.- -LIBERALLY EDUCATED." .......................... 159 II. -A SUCCESSFUL WALL STREET MAN- .................. 165 II.- THE C  H  O  ICE. ...................     168 IV.--LETTER FROM ALF DU BARRY TO ToM CASTLETON, BE- ING THE FIFTH OF THAT YOUNG GiENiTLEMAN'S EPIS- TLES TO HS FRIEND AFTER ARRIVING IN EUROPE.... 173 V.--LAWYERP OR PRIEST.. .............         181 VI -R-EVIVALS$ ..........  ...........  ........... 186 VII.-BILL HOLT'S SECRET ...   ..................... 193 BOOK III. I. -THE PR2OBLEM ................................... 201 II.--TIE LAW OFFICE OF HORACE PULSIFEIR.. ............. 203 "I.--IN THE HARNESS ....  ......  ..................... 214 IV.-AN INTERRUPTION .   .............     ............ 219 V.-Du BARRY IN EUROPE ........... ..........  ......  224 VI.-SCENE PAINTING .................22.......  ...... 228 VII.-MSS CLARA DIGBY AND HER LOVER. ................ 241 VIII.-CLAB DIGBY'S IDEAL. ............................. 249 BOOK IV.  MANY CHAPTERS IN      ONE.-THiE tHSTORY OF ONE OF  OUR QUEENS OF FASHON ......................... 257   CONTEh;NTS. vii BOOK V'. :I -A WORD IN PASSING .............................. 281 II.--A GRAND RECEPTION IN THE METROPOLIS ......... 283.. "I.-WILLIAM HOLT TO RE]OVE FPO f THE SIXTHi AVENUE... 304 IV.--HOLT's EVENING WALK ....... . !   V.--Iow DU BAIRY BECOMES DISTINGUISHED ............. 319 ' VI.-WHAT SENT CASTLETON TO EOP E .. ........   322 VII.--ThE VoYAGE ....... V YI.-THE   VOYAGE ............................   330 VIII.--A SHARP E1oNOTEER. ..... .  IX.-Mns. HOLT MOVES TO A FASIONABLE QABnTEm.    34.5  X.-HOLT AT CHUROH...... ..50 BOOK VI. I.-EVENTS REASONABLY   TO BE EXPECTED.. .    359 II.--THE BALL IN MOTION.  WHEEE WILL IT STOP ..... 365 "I.--TE  LAIR OF TE LEOPADESS ....382............ IV.---CIAIILEY GR&VES TO WILLIAM HOLT.5.........  3 95 V.---TnE LOVEns         .  ..... V ................................. 398 VI.-CASTLETON TO EEFORM THE WORLD! ................ VILT.-AN UNLOO1KED-FOR APPARITION.. ...........  40 VIII.--CASTLETON-- D U BApR Y- CLARA. .......... .  412 IX.-TiE LOST PAaCAGE ........           419 X-DESOLATION. ......      ..        428 XI.-RESOLUTIO N ........ y-r          " " ' ' **.........    429 AI.--IT Is AN ILL WIND TIAT PROFITS N OBODY ........... 431 XIII.--TEE ACcouNT CLOSED .............. ................ 4 8 7 coa   viii          CONTENTS.  PAGE. XIV.--" hNEWS BY TELEGRAPH." ....................   . 440 XV.-TrHE SCHOOL-MSTRESS .......................... 445 BOOK VII. --VIRGINIA ..  .......I............   ,..t.    453 II.--CLARA.     ...........................    459 "I.--SARATOGA ..................................... . 465 IV.--THE NEW YORE SEASON. .............     ......... 4" V.-THE VISIT ..    .   .......... .* as   .. -474 (r. o ' '   V, .      *   a'I i BOOR I.   BUT to our subject! Nature always begins with the individuJ1, and not till she has adjusted and satisfied the propensities of the individual, in his own little circle, does she connect several together, and arrange their sentiments into a common weal- crder   TO-DAY: A ROMANCE. BOOK      I. CHAPTER I. "ON:DON-PA-R T-Wyoi   , NEmW YOEK, as yet th  fallest oT tlhi6hree chief cities of the world, is, at se sime lime, in $he largest sense, the most fascinating. \ s; alo the/faost thorough- ly cosmopolitan. It has none.   e  ly stiffness of London and none of its Cockn yisir. Nor has it the never-changing pleasure pose of Paris, with its perpetual ennui. London is preeminent for its stores of varied wealth, made up from the accumulations of ages. Its antiquities are guarded with affection. Its ancient landmarks are carefully preserved. The romance of the past is cher- ished by a people essentially romantic. To the student and the philosopher it presents more objects to interest than any other spot on the globe, if they sit down quietly to explore and study. But the world is not composed of students and philosophers. To the many, London is an overgrown, disagreeable city, angular, stiff, and unaccommodating. It partakes, in fact, of the na- i1.    12      TO-DAY: A ROMANCE. ture of the islanders who built it, and who possess qualities which, till within the last twenty-five years, made England irresistible; namely, self-sufficiency and preten- sion, coupled with a solid, sturdy strength of nerve and brain, and a dogged persistence. Paris is the opposite of London. There you encoun- ter, on all sides, continual changes and improvements: old thforms with new faces, even to the whitening of the sepulchres. What was ancient is regilded, that it may no longer appear so.  Nothing remains of yesterday. There is a disregard of the past which makes you shud- der. TO-DlY is the monarch whose image is stamped everywhere. To-morrow he will be deposed, and a new PRESENT reign in his stead. The materialism  of the French, wlich causes them to excel in natural philosophy, physiology, chemistry, and the exact sciences, has made Paris the most beautiful city of the earth. Yet you see in it little to inspire romance or sentiment. Its fine build- ings are new, or appear new. So with its streets and boulevards. Its pleasures and its gayeties are never- ending, but there is nothing fresh or expansive in them. Its material supplies, whether of necessity or luxury, are unrivalled; its cook-room is unapproachable, its fetes and spectacles defy competition. But after you have seen and enjoyed these for a season, you feel the terrible Parisian ennui creeping over you, and you exclaim, with a sigh, "Is there nothing else?" New York has scarcely a feature in common with London or Paris. Its peculiarity is the absence of the peculiarities which mark any European city. It is not   "ONDON--PARIS--NEW      YORIK.   13 that things are unformed, but that forms do not govern. The rules which shackle the Old World are unknown or disregarded. There are no ruts or grooves wherein peo- ple are harnessed and where they must pull forever. Its romance is of the Future, where imagination may revel at will. The men who control its active pursuits are young men. No one can mistake the signs of the vigorous vitality which you encounter, which encompasses you and draws you irresistibly along, compelling you to enter into the spirit of the hour. Here men are not born to great- ness, neither are they secure if they achieve it. They I, mnst keep on achieving.  The varied fortunes of the peo- I  pie are ever shifting, totally changing: up to-day, down to-morrow, up  again the next day. Such is the scene. i  You are not specially honored when you are at the top, and not disgraced if you fall. Individuality is paramount -individuality of person, not of caste. You are judged , by each separate performance. The act of yesterday is forgiven or forgotten by reason of what you do to-day. And so forward. This state of things presents, perhaps, no agreeable aspect to one assured of his position, whose rank is hed ged in and guarded by custom and authority. ^; But the many, born to no such gilded fortunes, welcome it with delight; for it constantly exhibits a  cheerful, charitable, sympathizing humanity, wherein hopes abound and little room is left for despair. For if by possibility there comes a   time when discouragement presses sorely, lo, there is the forest and the prairie, vast, illimitable, where you can go, the pioneer of civilization, with a new life before you.   "     TO-DAY: A ROMANCE. As the representative of such conditions, we repeat, New York is the most fascinating city. in the world, and the most essentially cosmopolitan. All this for outside-surface presentation. Within goes on the same triple life which everywhere belongs to our common humanity (as in the days of Noah, so now): the life of occupation, the life of home, the personal life; by which come our relations with others, with our fami- lies, and with ourselves. The last is the inner life which constitutes identity-the me ; not alone in London, in Paris, in New York, but over the whole world. And herein lies the domain of the novelist. 'i,   as ssuVUU lN GSEVERAL PERSONS.     15 CHAPTER    II. INTRODUCING SEVERALI PERiSONS TIPOPTANT TO  THS HSTORY. Ox a fne afternoon, in the early part of November, not ten years ago, two young men were walking in com- pany up Broadway-the great thoroughfare of Ne         York. They were well-made, good-looking fellows, of two or three and twenty, and strode rapidly along as if on some pressing errand. They were really not in a hur- ry; but it was the habit of their class to appear always to be so. These two young men looked precisely alike. I do not meanthat they resembled each other in person or com- plexion; on the contrary, one was rather above the medi. am height, the other a little below it. The former had brown hair and dark eyes; his companion had light hair nd blue eyes; and they dressed accordingly. Thus Ells. worth wore a coat several shades darker than that worn by Graves. The same distinction applied to the hat and necktie. But for all that, I repeat, they looked precisely alike. The style, cut, and finish of their garments were the same, even to gloves and boots. The collar of the shirt was turned down with scrupulous care, and the wrist- bands displayed handsome studs of fine workmanship.   16      TO-DAY: A 1ROMANCE. The general appearance of their costume was of the trav- elling sort, but the material was too expensive and the fit- ting too elaborate for a voyager. Nor was there anything flashy, let me say, in the ap- pearance of these youngsters. [No blazing diamond-pin adorned the shirt-bosom; no immense gold chain swung jauntily down across the Nwaistcoat. I have myself mnet, at Chamouni or at the Baths of Rcichenbachh, just such look- ir g yonng men, who were spritgs of English aristocracy.. But in this country we do not judge from appearances. Where one person is " as good as another," he is very apt to look and appear as well. Our new acquaintances continued their course, swincg- ing, with dexterous rapidity, along the crowded sidewalks, separating and coming together again with singular exact- ness. The celerity of their movements would not scenm favorable to conversation; they managed, however, to keep up a running discourse, which, while suspended by in- tervention of the wayfarers, was by no means interrupted. This discours3 would not be intelligible to the general reader, and it is scarcely worth while to interpret it. It ran something in this way: "The bottom will fall out in less than .n week; recol- lect .what I say." "Nonnsese! all the bears in New York can't-" "I tell you there is a corner." Here Ellsworth low- ered his voice mysteriously, as if suspicious that some one might betray the secret. "Do you think they can trap an old rat like Enos Foote?" said the other.                  :: -I;   INTRODUCING   SEVERAL PERSONS.     17 "He is trapped, I tell yon," and something else was added in a low tone. Well, it's nothing to me. I only hope it won't spoil hi yong  ife's receptions," cried Graves, laughing. "The first of which, by the by," retun ed Ellsworth, "comes off nlext Thursday." Thle converstion of the two friends-for we may call them so-was interrupted by an unexpected occurrence. They had descried, a little in ad ance, a eson who was evidently all acquaintance, but wh o, unlik e them was sanntering along apparently unobservant Of everything wIhich was passing around him. "What do you suppose he is thinking of" said Graves. "I am sure I don't know," replied Ellsworth; "the p-lVce of soap-fat, I dare say.,' "Who would have dreamed of his turning up in New York  " continued Graves. The two had now  come up with the subject of their remarks, and were. brushing rapidly past. "How are you, Cockce?" cried Graves, in a patroniz- The person addressed started as if electrified. It was the work of an instant to place himself squarely before the young men, whio were thus forced to come to a halt. ' Don't cockeye me, either of you !" he said fiercely. "My name is William Holt." The speaker was also a young m an, possibly a couple of years older than those he addressed, though, from his countenance, it was difficult to judge. He was tall and   18      TO-DAY: A ROMANCE. gaunt. His shoulders were square and high, so that his coat set much as if placed on cross-sticks. From these shoulders hung long arms; so long as to almost amount to a deformity. His hair was rich brown, fine and silky as a woman's. His face was sunburnt, exceedingly thin, with prominent cheek-bones. His eye, which was a bright lazel, was fringed with long black lashes. I say his eye; for only one could be fully seen. The other turned in vith so great a deflection, that more than half of it was completely out of sight. The young man was decently dressed; but his garments were of a cheap material, care- lessly put on, and negligently worn. On his head was a black slouched hat, which was drawn down over his fore- head. This was the person--Williamn Holt, as he called him- self-who now confronted our new acquaintances and lit- erally compelled them to stand. "He did not say, 'Cockeye,' Bill; you know that very well,' observed Ellsworth quietly. "'Bill' if you choose; but neither 'Cockeye' nor Cocklee' will go down any longer." And William Holt still continued to stand in their way, glaring on them savagely. "vWhy, Bill," said Graves, "what is the matter with you? We. have called you ' Cockee' all your life, and so did everybody in Fairmount. I never knew that you ob- jected to it." "That is because I could not help myself. He gave me the name," pointing to Ellsworth, "the rest of you took it up. What could 1 do? You were top of the heap i   o'in.    htollo   INTRODUCING SEVERAL PERSONS.        19 there. Here"-he looked around him as he spoke-L"I am even with you. You count just one in this crowd; so do I. That's all I have to say." He stepped aside, and Ellsworth and Graves resumed their rapid pace, laughing derisively at seeing, as they expressed it, "Cockee putting on airs." It was time; for the singular rencontre had begun to attract attention, and spectators were gathering. The two young men were soon out of reach of the curious; and William Holt, striking abruptly across the street and pur- suing his course on the other side, also evaded further observation, It would seem that this strange affair had changed the current of their thoughts, or that the atmosphere around them, as they emerged into the fashionable quarter, had qualified their ideas; for conversation between Ellsworth and Graves took a new turn. I am enabled to give it in full. Ellsworth. They say Alf Du Barry is coming home. Graves. Yes; in the next steamer, Tom Castleton tells ta ' me. r: i ZiEllsworth. Then Miss Clara, I take it, will have to de- a ide between the two. GGraves. Which she had better do by rejecting both- don't you say so. Ellsworth. Not a bad idea; but Tom will win her, in my opinion. Graves. I'll go you ten on Alf.  Ellsworth. Done. "Those two fellows have spoiled Clara, I think," con-   tinued Graves. "In fact, I never could see what there was about her to set people crazy." "Not exactly that," replied Ellsworth; "but she is a devilish fine girl-has got magnificent points. But I must say, I never should think of selecting her for a wife." "Nor I," echoed Graves. "Besides, don't you think she is an awkward dancer?" "Not awkward. Clara Dighy could not be awkward if she tried, but she dances so little, that she is not what I call a comfortable partner," returned Ellsworth, with  : the tone of a connoisseur. Well, I confess I can see nothing about her very remarkable. At any rate, she is not my style." "'Nor mine; but she is a splendid girl in her way, if not exactly in ours."  At this point there was another interruption. A young: lady stepped suddenly fi'om one of the handsome. stores which line Broadway, and turned down the street. As she approached Ellsworth and Graves, both those young cr  gentlemen took their hats" completely off, and, holding them in their hands, threw their heads forward, as if about  ^ 1 to submit to decapitation. This was done with the     t  S utmost haste, quite in character with the rapidity of all  their movements; but each had time to see and feel and  ,j  a j become intoxicated by a smile which suddenly illumined     b her face, and which was so admirably directed, that nei  : ther of the gentlemen could reasonably claim it for his own, although I will be bound that each really did so.     W As Miss Virginia Randall, if not precisely a favorite   with me, is to figure in this history, I may as well describe her now, as she is taking a little oppin excursion (quite that) for the purpose of purchasing a spool of pink sewing-silk. I recal her at this moment perfectly, just as she appeared, coming from that handsome shop, after mking or attempting to make her interesting little pur chase. For I myself met her on this very occasion just as she had exchanged salutations with those two young gentlemen' She was indeed a fascinating young creature. At this timeI suppose, she must have been nineteen. Girls do not manage to smile in the way she could smile much before that period. She was somewhat above the average height, full and finely formed, with a clear, light conplex - ion, which was fresh and rosy as the morn. Large gray eyes, with dark eyelrows and eyelashes, created an appe. tizing contrast with her rich yellow hair. ltogeth er a striing face, you perceive. When in repose, it was impassive and lacked expression. Perhaps you would be ready to call it unamiable. Her person, too, when she Oas ouconsbi outs and e of guard, dropped out of line, and lost to appearance its fine proportions. In this respect, she would remind you of a thorough-bred hunter: at rest sleepy and ungainly-looking, and of but little promise to an inexperienced eye; but roused into action, every bound brings out  a point of grace, beauty, and intel- ligence. So with Virginia Randall. When not engaged, she was quite as I have said; but the least thing would awake the slumbering genius of the beautiful figure.   TO-DAY  ' Z L     U * JLD A Y ; A U V AL A N U 1J . Then her eyes would suddenly become charged with mag- netism, hler mouth ready, on the instant, to express humor or anger, sympathy or scorn.    Her smiles-no eternal sameness or insipidity marked them.    They were of infinite variety, not adapted to, so much as seemingly called out by, the occasion. Few, indeed, could smile as she smiled. Such was Virginia Randall, as I recollect her not very long since-the favorite of all the young men, and, strange to say, not generally disliked lby her own sex. While the unbounded admiration she compelled made her somewhat capricious and despotic, I must, in justice, add, that she was coquettish rather than a coquette; that she had a good deal of what the world calls heart--how much or little, the reader will discover by-and-by; and further, was neither malicious nor envious, nor inclined to back- bite, nor fond of gossip--a rather interesting character, you see, if not quite up to the mark of a first-class heroine. On this occasion, I never shall forget the expression which was on her face just after the salutation to Ells- worth and Graves. It was of such a character that I involuntarily asked myself, "Which is the one?"   All trace of this, however, instantly disappeared, as she bowed to me, and went grandly on her victorious way. The effect of this meeting on the two young men was striking; for both fell into a complete silence, which was not broken till they had reached the fine area opposite Madison Square, and where, it seems, they were to sepa- rate. Here they stopped.   "Harry," said Graves to Ellsworth, "have you got twenty dollars about you l?" "IatIy'" hesitated. He seemed to balance in his hind whether to say Yes or No. Rather reluctantly he drew a roll of bills from his pocket and counted twenty dollars in the hand of Graves, The latter received the money with a careless nod of thanks, and thrust it ill his vest. The other was nettled by the manler in Mhieh his loan was taklen. "Charley," he said, -"please don't forget tlat this makes two hundlled, and I really cannot vwell spare it." "Nonsense, Halrry," returned Graves, laughing.  "Yo :  have lots of  money, I k now.9 Ellsworth,  seliosly. "What has salary to do with it?" retorted  Graves. As if eite of usould  lie on that. I don't know how it is," he continued, but you have the knack of making money, and I haven't. Besides, your follks are in luckjust "You don't            suppose I  speculate  on Illy  on  ac- .. '  * "Novw don't, I be    of you," replied te othe; "or I shall think you are taki n for a  pattern tbe headc-clerk of your estinable hause    n o    larey Grves commenced in  a  ost solemn tone to m imic that individual, talking through is nose with an unction which  made Ellsworth laugh in spite of himself; and thereupon tlle young men parated, Graves going slong Twenty-Third street to-    wards Madison Avenue, while Ellsworth continued up Broadway- That is, as each would have the other suppose. But Graves, after a-few rapid strides, did not keep on his  course. He stopped, and leaning for a moment against the railing which surrounds the Square, he retraced his  i steps, and turned down Broadway, walking even faster than when coming up.  Ellsworth, meantime, in place of proceeding homeward, went into the Fifth-Avenue Hotel, where he took a seat near the window, in the loungers' room, and Wvatched the people, as they passed, for about ten minutes. Then he  rose, and stepped briskly into the street. He also took a : direction down instead of up the magnificent thoroughfare. j-! To return to William Holt, whom we left pursuing his way on the opposite side of the street, his feelings embit-  tered by the meeting with his old acquaintances. His    hands were clenched, his body bent forward, while his slouched hat was drawn completely over his eyes, as if to  hide his deformity.  "I would not care," he muttered to himself, "if moth-  er was not cross-eyed. But when they call me names, I  think of her, and I "will be -- (here he uttered a fierce imprecation) if I submit to it. Let them look out for themselves!" He raised his person erect, threw back his hat, and  ; glanced defiantly around. It happened at this moment that Virginia Randall, in her walk, had reached a point on the other side, nearly opposite, where she came precisely i: t in the line of William Holt's observation. I:    The effect was magical. It was indeed curious to see the sudden chance of his countenance. All traces of the evil passions which lately disfigured it, vanished. His face lighted up, and looked positively handsome. Miss Virginia saw him, of course. She had the faculty, peculiar to most girls, to always know when an admirer is near. So when her eyes fell on William Holt, she gave him a careless nod and a little smile of recognition; not much of a smile, be it understood, but nevertheless it car- ried a certain meaning along with it. It barely parted the lips, showing just the tips of the teeth, which were white and regular. To Holt it opened a vista in the past, through which he saw all the years of his life back,     to the time when he had drawn that little girl on his sled, through the snow, over the ice, across the crusted fields; had pulled her up~ the steep  hills, and taught her to slide down, while he ran to the bottom    for the pleasure of drawing her up  again. He thought how he used to put both her little hands into one of his woollen mittens, and hold them till they were warm   and  she had  stopped crying.  How then and there wild thoughts took posses  sion of him, and made him feel willing to be, all his life, Virginia Randall's slave, if it would serve to keep him near her. How, as they grew older, their conditions sep- arated them, and familiarity ceased-after a  while cordi- ality, but not recognition.  Oh, no;   Virginia was not capable of that, especially a's -olt never presumed on their early acquaintance. Besides, she relished his ad- miration.   She relished everybody's admiration. More.    over, she had heart enough to be touched by it. So when they met, she would nod carelessly, and her lips would part with an expression which said, I have not, by any means, forgotten you. This was more than sufficient to keep the flame alive in William Holt's breast. Not only that; without his being aware of it, he was nerved to attempt what would seem unattainable, if not impossible, by the thought of that young girl. So much I will disclose to the reader, as Holt stands enrapt, forgetting his late disagreeable encounter with Ellsworth and Graves, in fact, forgetful of all things mun- dane; just as thousands of poor fellows have before him been enrapt and moonstruck by just such angelic crea-  I tures, and as thousands in the future are sure to be, with- out the least regard to my warning voice or yours. How long he would have remained under the spell, I cannot tell; for he was recalled to his senses by a hand placed on his shoulder. Turning suddenly, his thin face became red as scarlet, as he met the kind but penetrating  gaze of a man whom; once seen, it was not easy to forget.  Tom Castleton, as his friends called him, was not yet : five and twenty. He was generally admitted to be  the most promising young lawyer in the State. He was  scarcely above the ordinary height, though he looked  tall, for he had, even at that age, a commanding presence. : He had a high intellectual forehead covered with a mass -.. of chestnut hair, very dark eyes, not precisely black, a finely chiselled Roman nose, an eloquent mouth, a firm-set Xi chin. His countenance, while the moral qualities pre -     dominated, exhibited strong perceptive faculties, which his profession, doubtless, had considerably enlarged. "Not cured yet ? " It was spoken kindly; but .William Holt was in no mood to hear the question. It touched him to the quick. "And never shall be!" he exclaimed, in a tone of decision, as if to prevent any criticism or further remark. Castleton understood him. "I know    you are restless, Bill; but make up your mind to put an end to it." "I tell you, Mr. Castleton, it is of no use."   This was while the two were walking along together. "I know what you are going to say," he continued; "I know the girl don't care a rap for me. But it makes me happy to think of her, and I mean to do it." "All very well, if you can keep yourself just there." "You don't suppose I am such a fool as to deceive myself about it ? " retorted Holt. "Well, there have been just such fools long  before you," and Castleton  gazed with the same      penetrating look into William Holt's face. The latter neither blushed again nor turned away, but smiled good-naturedly. "That will do," said Castleton. "You are all right now.. Li  28      TO-DAY: A ROMANCE. "And you are going to--" "Inform his uncle's family." "Which means Miss Dighy," remarked Holt, quietly. It was Castleton's turn to blush, which he certainly did slightly. He laughed, though, and said, "Perhaps you are right. Mr. Ferris told me he would send word; but I promised the young lady that I would let her know as soon as the ship was in." "And this errand was too important to be trusted to any of your clerks or office-boys?" "Altogether," replied Castleton, laughing. Here they separated; Holt turning in the direction of the Sixth Avenue, and Castleton keeping in the Fifth, which they were just entering. Meanwhile, Graves had not made very rapid progress in retracing his steps. For some reason, he peered in- quisitively into almost every store, and scrutinized the crowd which encumbered the side-walk. His painstaking, it would seem was at last rewarded; for he met a young lady walking up, who saluted him with considerable formality, and to whom he bowed with equal formality, in return, but whom he nevertheless joined, and who proved to be none other than our ac- quaintance, Miss Virginia Randall. Both appeared to enjoy the walk; while, by degrees, their steps became shorter and slower, until they fell into what may be termed a lovers' saunter, or at least to a flirtation stroll-- which some of my readers are no doubt daily practising. What they talled of; I have no means of ascertaining; but I know, that in the midst of something very inter-   INTRODUCING   SEV   L PERAL SONS.   29 esting, Virginia, like any quick-witted girl, always on the look-out for surprises, saw Ellsworth advancing to. ward them. Graves, selfish fellow, was too much occu- pied to see anybody. Virginia had time to change the mize en scene, and to look quite careless and unconcerned and uninterested when Ellsworth met them. His hat came'off rather stiffly. But his chagrin was dissipated by just one glance of Miss Virginia, accompanied by still another kind of smile, a smile of reciprocating intelli. gence, as if she would say, "You see how it is: he met me first, and joined me, of course; better luck for you an-   other time." Both young men looked a little sheepish at having caught each other; but it could not be helped.  In the state of mind  they were in, such accidents occur fre-  quertly. :* ,  Not the slightest allusion was made to this little inci- X dent; and it is wonderful how, quickly Miss Randall's attitudes changed again, very much as if she Were acting :; a charade. In fact, she appeared to be more truly con- ' fidential and sentimental than before. And so the two pursued their course, Graves entirely oblivious of the X: crowd which jostled him, of the world that rolled along X that great highway, of the business-mart he had just left ; , and to which he  must return; indeed, of everything :Ij past and future, including the two hundred dollars bor- : rowed from Ellsworth. I dare say a   certain class of readers, persons not broadly reflective, with a sombre cast of mind and body, who can see no virtue except in what is heavy, dull, and "   30      TO-DAY: A ROMA3NCE. disagreeable, may take exception to these details as alto- gether too trifling and unimportant for them to spend their time over. Is it so? Now look you: these two young fellows, immortal souls, if it please you so to call them, but who are, for the present, fresh, honest, rosy-cheeked youths, having been well educated and reared, are sent to the city, with no ideas but what are straightforward and above-board, and with no thought but of obtaining a respectable position in the world by honorable industry. I say, these youths are sent to the city, and placed at a vocation which is gradually dissipating every correct im- pression and every conscientious notion, until they begin to think only in one line and to feel only in one way. They still attend church regularly on Sunday, but the preacher is impotent to change the current of their thoughts. There is not saving grace enough in what he says to do it. And on Monday they return to their pur- suits, glad to be relieved from the ennui of the preceding day. Now, what the clergyman fails to do, Virginia Ran- dall, in a measure, can and does accomplish. That is, she withdraws Ellsworth and Graves from the pale of the sanctuary of the god of this world, and, for the time at least, both rise superior to his claims; and you-O grave and ponderous wise man-must not accuse me of trifling, if I give some account of the doings of this fascinating young priestess.   THE ASIA  REACHES HER 'DOCK.      31 CHAPTER III. IN WHCH THE' ASIA REACHES HER DOCK. WILLIAM HOLT continued his dilatory pace home- ward. First he stopped to listen to the music of a hand- organ, turned by one of the numerous vagabonds which overrun the city. He gave the man a few pence, and asked him to repeat the tune. It is probable the air reminded him of something which he cherished. A little : farther on he saw a wretched woman, sitting on the steps of a house, who appeared to be suffering severely from I the weather. She looked up as Holt was nearly past, but : his attention was attracted. He walked on, however, : half the length of the block, when he turned suddenly, j stepped quickly back, and placed twenty-five cents in X her hand. Then he resumed his course. The woman on whom    he bestowed the alms was i cross-eyed. After a further walk of a mile, he entered a large and i tolerably good-looking building, and, mounting to the fourth story, opened the door on a pleasant room, where was a cheerful fire and a tea-table already set. From a side-room  entered, immediately, an elderly lady, whose features wore a  subdued and saddened look of long  standing.  She carried about her unmistakable marks of a refined and gentle nature. Her dress, though simple and 'e   32     TO-DAY: A RoMANCE. inexpensive, displayed taste. On her head she still wore a widow's cap, which could not conceal a profusion of beautiful brown hair. Her eyes were hazel, fall of ex- pressive tenderness, as she said, "Why, my son, you are home early!"Then you discovered the "cast" in the eye, which, when she was a young lady in fashionable society, had been so much admired, as interesting and piquant; and you might guess at once where William Holt got his remarkably fine hair as well as the "turn" which in him was exaggerated to a bad squint. "You are home early. Nothing has happened?" she asked, solicitously. "Yes; a good deal has happened. Don't be alarmed," he hastened to add, seeing his mother turn pale. "I will tell you--it's nothing bad. Now I think of it, I believe Castleton knew all about it when we met." "All about what? William, why do you keep me in suspense?" cried his mother. "All about what has happened before I knew it my- self. Mother," exclaimed Holt, coming close to her and putting a hand upon each of her shoulders-" mother, my salary has been doubled since the first of the month. I was only told of it to-day. What do you think of that?" and he began to walk up and down the room in an ex- cited manner. Tears came in the widow's eyes-tears of joy. "You know," continued Holt, "I asked for an in- crease the first of July, and Mr. Abbott answered, rather gruffly I thought, that he would think about it. You see he has thought. And I have something else to tell you."   THE ASIA REACHES HER DOCK.       33 He resumed his position, keeping his mother quite fast and still, as he looked into her loving eyes. She saw no deformity in the gaze, nothing but beauty-only beauty. "When Mr. Abbott told me this, in his blunt, off-hand way, he said 'Holt, keep on as you are going on, and you will have an interest in the concern before very long.' ' "It is not possible " exclaimed the widow. "It is, though. That is just what he said. You don't suppose I have forgotten it? Do you know," cried Holt, resuming his walk about the room, "what it is to have an interest in that business-even a small in- terest?" "I do not suppose I do," replied his mother, with a puzzled air. "I will tell you what it means. It means that you will live in your own house, and have your own furniture, and go out when you like, and have plenty of servants to wait on you. That is just what it means." "It does not seem possible, William." "I know it does not, but he will keep his word. And," he continued, still more excited, "if I can bring that about, if I can place you where you deserve to be placed, and where you belong, and where I can see you out of the reach of these canting, patronizing, stuck-up hypocrites, I would be willing to suffer everlasting tor- l ture." William Holt did not exactly know what he was saying, he was so much excited. He really meant that, for the sake of his mother, he was willing to undergo any amount of toil, privation, and pain, and for any length of   34      TO-DAY : A ROM /A NC Eo time. And he employed the strongest expressions which his heated imagination could supply. Hs mother was dreadfully shocked. "Oh, William, how can you speak in this dreadful manner! Do you know how wicked it is?" "I mean just what I say, mother. If it is wicked, I shall bear the consequences, not you. Don't be angry at me," he said, seeing the alarmed expression on her face, "I meant nothing wrong. Is not tea nearly ready? I have something else to tell you when we sit down." The tea was served; and while at the table, Holt told his mother that Alfred Du Barry had returned; and thereupon many topics were discussed, which would be entirely out of place at present to give to my readers. Meanwhile, Castleton was walking, with uncertain steps, toward the residence of Mr. Ferris, the uncle of Du Barry, where, at this particular time, Miss Clara Dighy was staying. She had, in fact, come in town ex- pressly, I think, to welcome him to his native shores after many years' absence. Although educated to a profession which necessitates entire self-control, Castleton felt that he was becoming nervous and unsettled. Now he would push on rapidly like one belated; then, relaxing, he would advance slow and irresolute, as if doubtful of his purpose. Whether walking fast or slow, he became more and more excited at every step. "This will never answer," at last he said to himself. "It is absolutely unendurable. I shall be good for nothing. Besides, I am making myself supremely ridic-   THE ASIA REACHERS HER DOCK.        35 ulous. The idea of my undertaking to criticise Holt! I will take the opportunity, before Clara leaves, to have it decided--once and forever. Whatever she declares I will accept, and govern myself accordingly." With teeth set and a rigid brow, Castleton sprang on the steps and rang the bell. The parlor window was raised, and an eager voice asked, "Has he come?" - "The ship is in," was the reply. "He is on board, no , doubt." The door was opened, and Castleton was ushered into the room, and into the presence of Clara Dighy. It is not as easy to describe this young lady as Vir- ginia Randall. Virginia had so many showy, I may say fine qualities, on the surface, that even a tyro could readily lay hold of them. Clara gave you no such advan- tage. She was the last one of whom it could be said, "She liked whate'er She looked on, and her looks went everywhere." i  On the contrary, it was difficult to make the depths of such a nature appear on the surface. Imagine a young girl, petite, with a faultless figure; hair which'is black in-doors and golden in the sunshine; ! regular features, a clear, pale complexion, large eyes, dark and luminous; eyes which, if they did regard you, made you feel she had left a part of herself with you when they were turned away. Imagine, further, an honest nature, without practice or guile; a nature devoted and fearless;   36      TO-DAY: A ROMANCE. a nature which gave promise of being everlastingly loving and trustful, if love and trust were once inspired. Couple with this a fine intellect, thoroughly educated; a refined taste, a vivid imagination controlled by a vein of practical good sense; and you have before you Clara Dighy, as drawn by one of her enthusiastic admirers about the period when this history commences, and which I declare I have copied verbatim. As a faithful chronicler, I have endeavored to make myself familiar with the other side, but filad not very much to put down in a positive way. A passionate temper," was hinted at by a female acquaintance. "Not sufficient- ly affable; too cold and distant," was the pithy observa- tion of another. "I must say I prefer a lively, handsome, good-natured, every-day sort of girl, with no pretension," was the remark of a distinguished author, who possibly may have failed to elicit as much of Clara's admiration as he felt was merited. We know Ellsworth and Graves (and they are a fair sample of our fashionable young fel- lows) declared that Clara Dighy was not to their taste. So, reader, you are at liberty to adopt Clara for a favorite or not, as best pleases you. I don't pretend I am al- together at home with her myself, but my friend, Tom Castleton (and Tom I have always been interested in) is deep, very deep in love with Clara; and for Tom's sake, I shall keep the run of her fortunes, and report to you with fidelity. Whether or not she was generally admired, it is very evident those she did attach to her were devoted, not to say extravagant, in their loyalty. She liked Castleton   THE ASIA  REACHES HER    DOCK.    37 much. He had the power to always interest her. This was no trifle. He could call forth her best thoughts and feelings; he could rouse emotions which were slumbering and which would astonish herself. That was encourag- ing. But up to this time, there still was lacking the one element, without which the occupation of the romancer would be nil. Yes, I am sorry to say, that up to this time, in the in- tercourse between Castleton and Clara, it was the play of Hamlet with the character of Hamlet omitted, so far as she was concerned. There was no love in the case; that is, no such love as you, my ,el,irining young lady, expect and desire to read about, in tli narrative; no such love as you, my ancient philosophllr, are really interested in- : poh-poh it as you please. No coy or maidenly reserve, no sweet reluctant delay in coming in his presence, no blush to the cheek when his name was mentioned, no sigh when he was absent, marked Clara's intercourse with our friend. But she liked to be with him, liked to hear him talk, liked his logic, his en- thusiasm, his eloquence. And Du Barry?  Du Barry was Castleton's rival, as he believed. Perhaps you will smile at this, for Clara had not seen Du Barry since she was thirteen, and that was seven years before. There was the mischief  Had he been on the spot, Castleton would have had an equal chance. But he was absent-romantically absent. I am aware of what you are going to say, that absence con- quers love; but there was no love to conquer. I will tell you that before I go any further. It was only a sentiment,   38     TO-DAY, A ROMANCE. the hardest thing in the world to drive out of a girl's head, because it is of her own manufacture-in fact, a part of herself. Thus it was that Du Barry was throned in her imag. ination, Imagination! where distance lends every en- chantment; which loves the far-off; which gives height and breadth and depth and infinite value! Du Barry was in the Old World-on the Rhine, across the Po, beyond the Danube, scaling the pyramids, exploring the sources of the Nile, pushing through Siberia, making acquaintance with the nomadic Tartar and Fin. Then he was inhabit- ing an apartment in an old ruined tower, buried in ancient lore; then at the old universities, accumulating the scho- lastic wisdom of ages. Indeed, where was he not, to Clara's fancy? For wherever, in its exuberance, she her- self would go, were she a man, there she sent Du Barry. On the other side, Castleton was here on the spot, an every-day mortal, attending to every-day matters, in con- tact with very common people, covered with the dust of daily life. Now all this must come to an end. "Alf" is actually, in bodily presence, on board an ordinary steamship. He must step on shore in our very sight. This, certainly, is in favor of Castleton. But I think he has calculated just the other way. I have no doubt he dreads the approach of his rival. Foolish fellow I He does not know what we know, what I have just been telling you; but reasons, that if Alf is formidable at such a distance, with no direct intercourse or influence, what will he be when he is here at hand, with the privilege of daily communication? Ah,   THE ASIA REACHES HER DOCK.        39 what? That is the question to be solved. Yes, Castleton fears Du Barry's return; and this thoroughbred young lawyer is becoming anxious and nervous and chicken- hearted. I perceive I am getting to be more confidential with the reader than at the outset I intended. It was my de- sign to let affairs get considerably involved, and then gradually permit them to disentangle as the story ap- proaches its end. But plot and mystery are not my forte. I find myself unravelling a skein at the very beginning, which, in adroit hands, might have been tangled and knotted into meshes and intricacies sufficiently mysterious and extraordinary to make a first-class novel of To-Day. "And do you propose to go to the ship?" asked Castleton, in some astonishment. "Certainly," replied Clara; 'don't you see I am ready?" He had not noticed it, or perhaps he thought Clara had just come in from a walk. "It will be quite dark," he said, "I fear, before the passengers can land, and-" "Is it not perfectly ridiculous, Mr. Castleton," ex- claimed a stylish-looking girl, very fashionably dressed, who had entered unperceived, and now advanced to greet him  "Is it not perfectly ridiculous, the fuss Clara is a making about this steamship?" ": Then you are not going?" said Castleton, by no X means displeased at her observation.   1U     . TO-DAY: A ROMANCE. "Igoing!" exclaimed the young lady, in a tone of superb irony. "I should rather think not. Alf is coming home more than half-spoiled, I know; and I do not intend to help finish the work. Quite the contrary, I assure you." "A little severe, are you not?" quoth Castleton. "I don't think so. To tell the truth, I have always been disgusted with Alf for expatriating himself." "Not that," interposed his friend. "He went abroad for his education." "I don't care what he went for. Besides, I think we ought to be educated in our own country." "You forget the circumstances," interrupted Castleton ---- THE WILL., "No, I don't forget it. On the contrary, it is' that which disgusts me more than anything else. That a young man should forsake his country to suit the whim of a disagreeable old maid." "De 2nortuis nil nisi bonum," said Castleton, with affected gravity. "That is a proverb, I believe," said Miss Emily; "and I detest proverbs as well as old maids." "I declare, Emily, you talk shamefully," said Clara, speaking for the first time. Her eye quickened a little, but she laughed, nevertheless. "There is the carriage, Miss Dighy," retorted Emily, with equal good-humor. "You should make haste, or our 3Iagnifido may have to step on shore unattended.' Warn him," she continued, as she accompanied Clara to the door, "that he must be on his good behavior if he   THE ASIA R EACHES HER DOCK.        41 expects to be received vith anything more than bare civility by Young America." This young lady has come so suddenly on the scene, and has been so demonstrative, that I have had no time to introduce her. While Castleton is attending Miss D Dighy to the carriage, I observe that the demonstrative young lady is Miss Emily Ferris, a daughter of Mr. Henry Ferris, at whose house, as I have before remarked, Miiss Clara is for the present staying. To vindicate the truth of history, I am compelled to :  add that, notwithstanding the tone of indifference em- ployed when speaking of' Du Barry, and although she was already dressed for dinner, Miss Ferris immediately ,  retired, and devoted at least an hour to a completely new toilette, which was distinguished for its simplicity i:i and good taste.  She had acquired the knowledge, or ;  else she possessed it by instinct, of the ars celare artem. As  the carriage drove along, Castleton and Miss -1 Dighy lapsed into a silence so, unbroken that you would ha-ve fancied them spell-bound. Clara had, in her im- agination, a scene already prepared, which she was en- :'1 joying without an alloy.  Castleton had lost sight of his jt dreaded rival, and only remembered his classmate and d friend. They had corresponded with great regularity. A  Ihe was now  to have Alf near him, an ally, aid, and co- j: \worker in the various plans which he had formed; was 3all the time forming; for the good of the country, to im- 1  prove the condition of society; in short, for generally changing things for the better. At this period, Castleton was impressed with the belief that life was an earnest !   42      TO-DAY: A ROMANCE. piece of business; no trifle or joke, nor yet a mere scram- bling after supposed personal advantages; but a broad, comprehensive reality, having a reach into the Beyond, with which it was indissolubly connected. It is the early dream of all true men, when they first come to oppose themselves to this world's jugglery, to undertake the work of overthrow and reform. The sys- tem by which our every-day matters are carried on and society exists, must be changed to one of pure disin- terestedness. They essay many plans and methods to bring this to pass. After a courageous struggle, in which they are exposed to the sneers of the unthinking, and the lofty pity of the wise, they acknowledge the utter futility of their hopes. They begin to realize, after thousands of years, in which the good have labored bravely; how idle it is to substitute one system for another, or to attempt to exorcise evil by the introduction of new machinery. Still they will try. Still let us honor the trial. And whether they rise in sad discouragement from the contest, or whether, like the sons of God of old, who saw the daughters of men that they were fair, they yield to the seductions which once appeared so unworthy, they are entitled to the sympathy of every honest soul. The sudden stopping of the carriage at the ferry across the Hudson, at the foot of Cortlandt-street awoke Clara from her day-dream and Castleton from eis, and puts an end to any further moralizing on my part. "Are we there?" asked the young lady. "Not quite. We are at the ferry." As the boat approached the centre of the river, both   THEi: ASI.  REACHES ItHER DOCK.     43 looked eagerly for a glimpse of the steamer. They were disappointed. Among the numerous craft of every de- scription which could be seen coming up the bay, it was impossible to designate the Asia if she were really visible. At last the carriage reached the Cunard dock, where Castleton was told it would be still half an hour before the ship came up. For a time, the two remained in the carriage, ex- changing only monosyllables. The sun had set, but in its place a gorgeous full moon lightened the clear sky, in a a degree almost marvellous, casting shadows so thick that it seemed one might touch them sensibly. At length they heard the exclamation that the Asia was near. Both got out impulsively to see the ship come in. A crowd were assembled outside the gate, composed of porters, hackmen, runners, and idlers. Within were a large number who had come to welcome friends, or were connected with the ship's business. A short dis- tance below, in the stream, the steamer could be seen, head toward shore. The sound of the paddle-whedls, re- volving slowly, struck on the ear with distinctness.    A; Clara gazed on the leviathan till her heart beat audi- bly. "It has come from the Old World," she thought. "From its moorings there, how sagaciously it glides to its moorings here." A sail-boat at this moment was discovered in im- minent danger of being run over. "A craft dead ahead, sir," exclaimed one of the look- outs to the pilot. It would seem the warning came too late, or else the   "     TO-DAY:: A ROMANCE. pilot did not dare, so near in shore, to alter or impede his course. A volley, composed of profane criminations, greeted the unfortunate stranger; the sure accompani- ment of a threatened collision. But at the instant when all were looking to see the little sail engulfed, she came up suddenly in the wind's eye, and shot off on the other tack. "Give him a blizzards Jones," bellowed an old quar- termaster across the deck to his mate. A hot imprecation was fired at the shallop, which looked like a dancing shadow on the wave. "You take care of your boat, and I will take care of mine," shouted the man who had the helm of the little craft. A loud laugh followed, which was echoed by those on the ship, and caught up by the people on the dock. In the midst of these mirthful demonstrations the steamer gradually worked herself alongside. It was some time, however, before she could be made fast so as to permit the gangway-plank to be laid. The upper deck was crowded with passengers, and  Castleton and his com- panion strained their eyes to discover Du Barry in the multitude of heads which anxiously or eagerly or curi- ously were turned shoreward. It is not any wonder that our friends cannot make him out. True, there he stands in plain relief. Both have glanced at him repeatedly, and both have rejected him from their calculations. Yes, I see him myself, dis- tinctly; but I shall not point him out. Let the search continue.  I much enjoy it. r .',   THE ASIA REACHES HER DOCK.        45 The gangway was at last adjusted. The passengers began to pass over it. Castleton stood close by the end of the railing, while Clara was obliged to take fast hold of his arm, to prevent being jostled. Every face was submitted to the strictest scrutiny. Our friends began to fear he would slip by unrecognized, when a tall, distin- guished-looking person, apparently a foreigner, walked slowly down. While on his way, Castleton caught his eye. There was something in its expression which made him hold his breath. The next moment he had seized the distinguished-looking foreigner by the hand, exclaiming, in a joyous tone, "Alf, my boy, how are you?"   "     TO-DAY: A ROMANCE. CHAPTER   IV. A GLANCE BACKWARD. WE must go back a good many years. It is high noon, on a Saturday, the twentieth of De- cember-high noon, by the clock in the school-room of Mr. and Miss Pettengill, Principals of the Select School for Boys and Girls, at Scotenskopft. At this period, Scotenskopft was a pleasant village, on the banks of the Hudson, in Westchester County. [The name, within a few years, has been changed to Fairmont, to suit the refining spirit of the age.] Mr. and Miss Pet- tengill, brother and sister, had been, for twenty-five years, principals of the school, and as this was several years ago,' possibly twenty, it is fair to presume it no longer exists, with its old-fashioned ways and peculiar manners and excel- lent instruction. Indeed, I have been told lately that, on the site where the Select School flourished, a rich mer- chant of New York has built a handsome villa and creat- ed extensive pleasure grounds, and that now you see styl- ish carriages, and fine horses with servants in livery, and groups of fashionable men and women, gay, lively, and full of enjoyment, where, not very long since, you could ? witness the scene I began to picture at the opening of this -I chapter.     -   A GLANCE BACKWARD.         47 I doubt very much if the people, young and old, around that and the adjoining villas, are having such good times as the pupils of the Select School used to enjoy on the same spot. Mr. and Miss Pettengill, they were never, so far as I know, mentioned separately, were in themselves a singu- lar institution. They had done nothing but teach all their lives. Nothing was known of them except that, many years before, there came to Scotenskopft, from a small place in Connecticut, two tall, thin, pallid-looking young persons, dressed in deep mourning, which they nev- er altogether laid aside. Their object was to secure the charge of the public school, and they brought such letters of recommendation that they were shortly after installed over it. From this, as a beginning, Mr. and Miss Petten- gill, before very long, established the Select School of which they were the head. They had, from the first, adopted the principle in educa- tion that boys and girls should be taught in the same classes, board in the same families, and be permitted to play together with freedom. I have before me a moderate-sized pamphlet, printed as far back as 1825, entitled, "How to educate Boys and Girls. The Evils of the French System pointed out and exposed. By Mr. and Miss Pettengill, Principals of the Select School for Boys and Girls, at Scotenskopft, West- Chester County, N. Y." In this pamphlet the whole question is admirably treat- ed and in a fine vein. A good deal of severity is exhib- ited toward the Roman Catholics, while drawing atten- \     48     TO-DAY: A RO MANCE. tion to nunneries and monasteries as part of the same per- nicious system of separation ;ut with this exception the subject is handled with good temper and moderation. The spirit of To-DAY has pronounced against this theo- ry; and travelled women bring home from Paris a fashion- able solicitude for their girls and a fashionable indiffer- ence to their boys, which, according to the old pamphlet of Mr. and Miss Pettengill, are equally to be condemned. These two persons had been so accustomed to the joint use of the family-name, that they had nearly forgotten how to employ it in any other way. They had been so long engaged with a united purpose and a common aim, that they appeared to have lost their separate individuali- ty, I may say identity. 'I do not know what Mr. and Miss Pettengill may decide," was the ordinary answer to any question put to either, which had not already been passed upon by the two in council. "Is Mr. and Miss Pettengill at home?" was the demand at the door, of any one calling to ask about the school. All letters received for them at the post-office were directed to Mr. and Miss Pettengill. It would appear that the circumference of their lives had for its centre the school they had founded, and every- thing revolved around and was tributary to it. At the same time, Miss Pettengill was strictly feminine in her na- ture and instincts, Mr. Pettengill totally masculine in his. The aesthetic combination made the arrangement perfect for teachers and pupils. It was not a select school in name only, but in fact. There were always twelve boys and girls under the par- i   A GLANCE BACKWARD.          49 ticular care of the principals, who lived with them, form- ing a very interesting family. These were from seven to thirteen or fourteen years of age. The plan of the school was, not to retain pupils after fifteen. An equal number were admitted as day-scholars, altogether composing a school of about twenty-five pupils. Nothing was omitted which would interest these young people and make their daily routine something desirable and pleasant, instead of task-like and irksome. There are many, I am sure, who will recognize this description, and recall with pleasure their school-days at Scotenskopft. I said, all letters received at the post-office for the prin- cipals were directed to Mr. and Miss Pettengill. There was, a year or two before this, an exception. It was so remarkable that the little postmaster, whose duties were not so large that each letter did not undergo a strict scru- tiny, stood for at least five minutes looking at it. Then he put it down and took it up again, and, after another careful examination, laid it aside till the other letters were distributed. On a further deliberation, he concluded not to put this in the box which belonged to the Select School. So he placed it on his table until some one should call. It happened that afternoon that Miss Pettengill had occasion to walk down to the village, and stopped herself at the office instead of her brother. After handing her what was in the box, the postmaster said, "Here is some- thing, ma'am, which may be yours," and he presented the mysterious letter. It was directed; "Miss Mehitabel Pet- tengill, Scotenskopft, N. Y." 3   50      TO-DAY: A ROMANCE. A faint blush rose to her pale cheeks as she said, quietly, "It is for me," and turned and left the office. She retraced her steps homeward, having, all the way, the appearance of one in pain. Reaching the house, she went directly to a little room, whose privacy was invio- late. She locked the door, however, and, putting her hand to her heart, she repeated twice, "Human emotions-hu- man emotions," and sat down. "What has Clara to write to me?" at last she ex- claimed. "What has happened to release her from her thraldom? How unchanged is the hand! Every line, every turn, every point just as I taught her, so many years ago." She sat several minutes resting her head upon her hand, evidently attempting to compose herself. At last she opened the letter. It was in these words: "DEAR MEHTABEL: H-ow will you feel when you see my handwriting after all these years of silence? Will you, as I now do, have a delight so strange that it can only be likened to some new ecstatic life-a delight coupled with pain so poignant that it cuts like a knife into my heart? Ten years of absolute, unequivocal separation from all I cared for or loved or even thought of. Cut off from every possible intercourse, sacredly pledged not to attempt it, what, think you, has been my life? Not altogether what you would imagine; not altogether what you pre- dicted. "Mehitabel, in one thing you were entirely mistaken. Not once, from the time I quitted the little church as his   A GLANCE BACKWARD.        51 wife; do you remember? up to the moment of his death, was my husband unkind to me; never once. I forgot that I have not told you my husband died, three weeks ago, of bilious fever; indeed, I have so much to say, and I am so agitated that I do not know well where to com- inence. "In many things you were right, Mehitabel, but not about his being cruel and arbitrary. Whatever he may have been with others, he was not with me. He was always affectionate and indulgent. He did treat me, as you said he would, more like a child than like a wife- not despotic though, and severe, as you thought. I never expressed a wish but it was gratified. I could fancy nothing that he did not immediately supply it. "In one thing only he was inexorable. He never yielded or softened in that. I mean in forbidding me to have any intercourse with my friends at the North. Yet I had no right to complain. Such was the compact when I left you and gave myself to him. He was not under- handed in this. At first I received a good many letters. He always brought them to me, and I destroyed them in his sight, without a word. I felt very unhappy once, that I could not open a newspaper which Susan sent me. This went on for a few months, and then I settled down to our plantation-life. "I cannot say I have been unhappy. My husband made a terrible revelation to me the very week we reached our home. You may guess what it was. I suf- fered dreadfully for some time, but my husband's kind- ness helped me much.   O1'-DAY: A R OMACE. "Mehitabel, I have had four children-four lovely, darling children. Three I have lost-the three youngest cut off in a few short weeks by scarlet fever. You know much, you have great experience, and a tender, sympa- thizing heart, but oh, you can never know a mother's pangs in parting with her children. "A fine rosy-cheeked boy, strong and robust, frank open-hearted, and two sweet-tempered little girls, my joys else would be permanent. "Now comes what I wish to say to you. My hus- band was persuaded, from the first, that he could not re- cover. He had hi senses perfectly. He loved to have me sit by him and hold his hand. He would look at me earnestly, and sometimes say, 'Poor child!' Then he would ask for little Clara; my oldest is named for me; and when she came, he would look at us both without saying a word. I would ask him what he was thinking of. He replied, ' Nothing; I only want you near me.' "Ten days before he died, he sent for Judge B--  When he came, my husband asked me what I would like to do with Clara, in case of his death; I cried bitterly, and said, 'Just what you wish I should do; only what  you wish.' I left the room, crying all the time. "Before Judge B -- ent away, I was summoned.     ,  'Clara,' said my husband, 'you know that Judge B-   is my most intimate friend. He has prepared my hmsI   A GLANCE BACKWARD.         53 will, and I have signed it. He is my sole executor. He has promised, on his honor, to sacredly carry out these provisions.' ' I have,' said the judge, solemnly. "Not a word could I reply; I was so overcome, and I cried so much, that the subject was not again men- tioned. The day before he died, my husband called me to him. ' Clara,' he said, 'promise me one thing.' "' Yes,' I replied, faintly. ":Promise me to consult your own feelings and wishes entirely about little Clara, without stopping to think how I might feel.' "I hesitated. "'Promise!' he repeated, almost sternly. cI will promise anything you desire ' "That is all I wish to say;' and he smiled on me with inexpressible tenderness. "After the funeral, I found that my husband had left everything to me, and gave me the guardianship of Clara. In his will he expressed the wish that I should take the whole direction of her ftuare, and select such schools as I thought best for her. "Were you not too harsh with him, Mehitabel? "I have delayed to tell you something. I have writ- ten this long letter, and have kept the secret; a natural dread, I suppose. "You will be shocked. Dear Mehitabel, I have been ill now for two years; gradually sinking with consumption. I know my husband determined to carry me to my native   hills, this s:lmmer, had he not been taken sick. He whis, pered that to me a fe minutes before e died. I no w^enl I shall live b mluutes before he died. I kno' ell I shall ive but a few weeks; and I come with my last request to you. I am going to send my Clara to cotenskopft, to your happy household. You will take the entire, uncontrolled charge of her: Do for her what you did fdr her mother, who writes her last words now to you. I have already made my will. A copy will be sent to you. You will see that I have made you and your brother trustees for a portion of Clara's fortune. I feel such a sense of security in doing this. "I shall send her next week, by one of our friends who is going to Nev York. She is seven years old. To you only, ehitabe, could I send he. Se  ill never see her mother's face again. When she hears that I am no more, then soothe her, comfort her as you soothed and comforted me. Explain everything. She is yours. Thus I myself return to you. Oh, if I could see you, how much, how much I have to say! It is not to be. Ihave not been unrrateful. If^    r8   O  - Ihave not been ungrateful. If you think I did wrong to leave you, you will forgive me, now that I am dying. "Indian Lake, Ttesda."         CLAA. The  ,i The following, in continuation, was written on another  ; )age:- , "Mehitabel,I cannot do it I though  t to have sent er to you while I lived. I could not bear that her oung life should have this double shock: to see father to eerahe   and mother both die! I wished she might avoid the last. The time has come, but I have not the force to send her from me. I am too weak. I told Clara where she was going. The little thing replied, with seriousness,' "Mam- ma, it is impossible. Who will take care of you if you send me away?' She must stay; yes, she must stay. "When she comes to you, I shall be at rest. Once more, I entreat, accept the offering." After reading the letter, Miss Pettengill sat silent and absorbed for a long time. "Again, must it be again?" she exclaimed, audibly. : I suppose it must." She rose, unlocked the door, and passed out. That' evening she had a brief conference with her brother; after which no further allusion was made to the subject. Nothing was heard from the child or her mother for nearly three months. Then a carriage drove to the door of the "Select School," and a tiny form, dressed in mourning, was handed out. It was the little Clara. She was all that remained of the family at Indian Lake: husband, wife, four children. Of "the promised end" of the scene in the village-church; when the bold and handsome stranger married the pretty, fascinating school-girl, and carried her away to his distant home; here is what was realized. The child stood in the walk, like a chair or other article of furniture, precisely as she was placed, as if ready to be moved again when occasion required. A gentleman of fine bearing, in the prime of life, de.   scended after her, and led her into the house. First, this gentleman had nearly an hour's conversation with Miss Pettengill; after that, he took Clara, and ising her ten- derly, placed her in the anns of the school-mistress, and came away. Notwithstanding this Iong digression, Time has not advanced one second. It is, as I stated at the beginning of the chapter, high noon, on a Saturday, the twentieth of December-high noon by the clock in the school-room of Mr. and Miss Pettengill, Principals of the Select School for boys. and girls, at Scotenskopft. Ir. and Miss Pettingill still retain the old custom of the half holiday on Saturday; and it is commencing at this moment. The children are coming out of a side door, not tumultuously, but with entire freedom, ready for fun. Some run to the stoop under which several sleds are shel- tered. Other sleds are carefully moored in a snug cor- ner of the picket fence. There seems to be no difficulty for the children recog- nize their own: all speedily disappear, and are placed in position on the brow of the hill with marvellous celerity. An occasional urchin can be seen wending his way home- ward for dinner, so that no time may be lost in enjoying the whole of the short afternoon. Nearly all, however, prepare to take a few slides down the long, steep hill, by which they are carried almost to the river without the ob- struction of any railway. Little difference can be seen be- tween the boarders and the day-scholars, except the former take a more careful note of time, since they have to appear at dinner punctually at half-past twelve. Pos. =-=.-             . ' " ', .3   sibly, too, you may discover an air a little-more select among them than with their school-mates. It may be, however, solely in my imagination. Still, I know the boarders value their privileges, one of which is this close proximity to the best sliding-down hill in the whole region. They can whip out any minute when they are at liberty, take one slide, and run in again, when many of the day-scholars would have to trudge a long way to reach the spot. This should make the day-scholars some- times envy the boarders, and I think they do. Away go boys and girls. The boys are gallant little fellows, and look carefully after the sleds of the young ladies. Young ladies! Why not? We may as well call them so, for young ladies they are in the eyes of their admirers, who are already young gentlemen to them. Away they go, helter-skelter! Whose sled is fastest, which makes the best distance? Who just at this mo- ment has an upset, and is rolling over and over in the snow? See! there is a runaway sled. Some one jostled it at the top of the hill, and it is off without the passenger.  There it flies, jumping the rough places, slewing to one side, righting again, and away to the bottom. Some- body will have a long run after it and a tedious drag up. I perceive yonder a chubby, bright, rosy-cheeked miss. She must be at least seven years old. She has large, dark, gray eyes and black eyelashes, with a light com- plexion and flaxen hair almost white. How merry she is! Every one seems to like her, especially the boys. How amiable, too. She is offered so many invitations! ' Try my sled," cries one, "and mine," says another. It is not 3* -- w!   58      TO-DAY: A ROMANCE. always easy to refuse; but she offends nobody and pleases all. She appears to divide her favors between two of the best-looking boys-Charley and Harry. They are day-scholars; she is a day-scholar. They are keeping very close together. I observe just a little difliculty. It is about turns. Harry declares he is to have two slides with the little girl, and gives his reasons. Charley pro- tests. The scene is becoming exciting. The boys will soon come to blows about this incipient "Helen;" why not? They will when they grow up and become more mature; why not now? The case is getting to be critical. She dislikes much to grieve either, but she must decide, to prevent blood- shed! She rather likes the situation, though; of course she does. "It is Charley's turn," she declares, emphatic- ally. "I won't have double turns!" She takes Charley's sled, and under his pilota e, the trip is soon made. The next, certainly, is Harry's. At the top of the hill once more, our "Helen" casts a con- ciliatory look at the disappointed rival. You would think it impossible for a lad of any susceptibility to with- stand those eyes and the arch smile which dimples both cheeks; but Harry is made of sterner stuff than ordinary boys. He turns sullenly away , I am sure, I don't care," cries the little maiden, with sudden change of demeanor. "Come, Charley." Charley is the favorite for the next ten minutes. She rides only with him, leaving Harry to his solitary voy. ages. At length it is time to stop.   A GLANCE BACKWARD.         59 They are at the foot of the hill. "I am going home now," says Charley. The little girl lives quite over the hill in an opposite direction. "Oh, Charley, you are not going to leave me here? Won't you draw me up?" she pleads. "IMy dinner is ready," replies Charley, carelessly. u I can't stop now; " and away he runs. Harry stands near. "( Don't you think I am going to do it?" he asks, tauntingly, and walks off in the most deliberate manner. Young "Helen A" begins to cry from sheer mortification and chagrin. Perhaps we have not yet observed a little fellow, who mixes with the rest without appearing to belong to any set. He has a sled, but no one rides with him. He is a pale, thin, delicate-looking child, and is so attenuated that he appears like a line only, as we see him in the dis- tance. No one pays him any attention, unless to jostle against him, or upset his sled when in the way. He takes everything so quietly, so innocently, as if whatever treat- ment he receives it is all right, that we feel sorry for him. Our little favorite is still crying. The sickly-looking boy comes running up. No one else is present. A What is the matter?" he asks, in a soft voice. "My fingers are cold,"' is the answer. This is not quite true, you know; but how can we expect her to give the real reason? "Oh, don't cry; get on my sled; I will draw you' home; put both your hands in one of my mittens." The sobs are decreasing. Harnessed to the sled, the pale boy pulls with all his might up the ascent. It is hard   work, but he loves it! As for the girl, she recovers quick- ly, and in careless mood urges her horse to greater effort until he is forced into a run. What does she care if he overworks and makes himself sick? Perhaps she would care, if she thought anything about it; but she does not think. Heated and puffing with his exertion, he lands the little girl safe at home. Then he has a long journey to make before he reaches his own house. Dinner is wait- , for there is no one to partake of it but the pale skeleton boy and his young, widowed mother.    She draws hilm to the fire in alarm. "Why, my son, you are in a complete perspiration. What have you been doing to heat yourself so?"  Playing," responds the boy, stoutly.  "But you play so violently and your companions are  so rough!"                         i; "I will show them I can be as roulgh as they are," retorts the boy, unconsciously adopting his mothers idea.  "Don't you be alarmed." Not all the school attempt the hill. A small group are clambering over the fence and across the field to pond which is well frozen over. We observe a small, lithe form in black. She is pale, but no longer delicate. She scales the fence, and jumps crushing into the snow, as if she had played in it all her  ' life. She has improved wonderfully in appearance since she was handed from that carriage and placed on the sidewalk. She runs along with Vigoi, appearing to enjoy everything. PU-\?- CiT4f=p ?XI-Y-rry    ,     There are sleds and skates in this company; sleds for the girls, skates for the boys. Skating is not as yet an accomplishment for young ladies. In this group are two lads who appear to unite in a joint protectorate over the little form in black. One, a fine, manly fellow, large of eye and bright of countenance; the other, taller, perhaps, and specially attractive; both very handsome boys, I should call them. On go the skates; the girls seat themselves comfort- ably on the sleds, and are soon coursing over the frozen surface of the pond, drawn rapidly by the skaters, who perform with them many a gyration. There is plenty of frolicking here, too, and an upset comes often enough to keep upjthe fun. Sometimes the large-eyed lad draws the pretty form, while the other pushes vigorously to increase the speed. Then they change positions, and, after that, taking hold of hands, they skate rapidly on, while their partner slides smoothly along between them. It is a pretty picture, the more engaging because it cannot last always. Those two boys will not rest content with a divided empire. We see no trouble at present; none. But in their hearts, a good way down, it is brewing. They are not aware of it; but wait a little. And the pretty, lithe form in black? You have my exhibition. I have shown you Virginia Randall, and Harry Ellsworth, and Charley Graves. You have also seen Cockee-William Holt. Doubtless you i   62     TO-DAY: A ROMANCE. recognize others; Clara Dighy, for example, and Tom Castleton, and the foreign-looking Alf Du Barry. I have a good deal of work before me to bring these groups into positiond and place them where we first made their acquaintance. They are the self-same creatures 1 pointed out when I began. I give you this glimpse. It is a dissolving view.   HEINRY R. S. T. DU BARRY.       63 CHAPTER    V. HENRY R. S. T. DU BARRY. THEE family of Du Barry was ancient and of tile highest. respectability. This is what was said of it.. Moreover, in the pre- vious century, it occupied a position of influence and wealth. But, as is apt to be the case when the chief thought comes to centre in what has been, this " ancient family " gradually declined in importance, until the time of this history, when it was represented by Henry R. S. T. Du Barry, as he wrote himself, the father of our little "Alf.9" This man had more than ordinary intelligence, but he inherited the same prejudice of birth that his father entertained before him; in fact, which had always char- acterized the Du Barrys. He continued to grow poorer in purse and prouder in spirit, till he found himself in a very uncomfortable situation. This was not improved; so those o f his own h ousehold thought; by a disagreeable temper, which was becoming daily more acrid and querulous. The fact is, he had been completely overwhelmed by the spirit of our young country; and as the idea of anything new never entered his head, he was put at   "     TO-DAY: A ROMA NCE. his wit's ends at the sight of what was going on in all directions. Du Barry still occupied a considerable property on the Bloomingdale Road, which caused him a perpetual struggle and anxiety. It was heavily mortgaged, and it was with great difficulty he could pay the interest. His expenses were considerable; for he insisted, for a long time, on keeping up his carriage. I wish you could have seen this ancient vehicle. Du Barry considered it the most aristocratic turn-out in New York; this "old, yellow four-wl' el,' as the hack- men called it. The arms of the 'Ju Barrys were still dimly visible on the panel, emblematical, as it would seem, of their fading fortunes. By-and-by he was tormented by the sight of the city- surveyors, who began to draw lines over every nook and corner of his property; then came new streets; then heavy assessments and increased taxation. Every day was now adding to his difficulties. Still he would say to himself, "Well, to-morrow I will go care- fully into my affairs, and see what is to be done. The difficulty is, no gentleman is fit for business, and no gentleman ought to be troubled with it;" to which statement, I dare say, there are many, even now, who are ready to exclaim, "Amen!" As the wealth of the city increased, Du Barry grew more and more peevish.  "Whose carriage is that?" he would ask when a handsome equipage drove past. The answer would be given.  "He keep a carriage! Why, that fellow was errand-boy for my father, and   g  R 1R. . T. DU BARY.      65 used to lack my boots.  What is the world com- ing to"ld follow rmost A remark similar in character woul follow almost an r  ee tat could be made to him. There was no society fit fo this poor gentleman to associate with, two or three others. Infortunately, of the half-dozen he would mentio  ome h     out altogether, and the others were at such a low ebb that not one in a thousand in the city was even awa of their existence. in t , cytw  eaqaro^. li to b e kept his course bravey, however s    tuck to his opinions, shut his eyes          hito his natuclaed he only waited the proper moment to resume hs natural position in society, when his family would see how they would be courted and run after! The delusion was so perfect,'that, so far as he himself was concerned, he was just as happy as if it were a reality. But the rest of the family did not altogether share his encouraging view of things. His wife, poor woman, was in ill health, and kept her room nearly the whole time, so that she did not interfere with his notions or plans. But there was a young sister, the "child," as he always called her (she was now twenty- five years old), who had always lived with and been supportea by Diu Barry, and. who began to give him serious uneasiness by reason She had all her life been subjected to the tyranny of her elder brother's hims and caprices; and as time began to carry herinto mature womanhood, she seized ,L   began to, car   "     TO-DAY: A ROMANCE . the occasion to act with more freedom and independence. She made some visits to new-comers in the neighborhood, without particular regard to the antiquity of their family or their present occupation. She sometimes went to parties given by very " questionable people," accord- ing to her brother's ideas. He would remonstrate, and words would run high. On these occasions, Eliza was always taunted with her dependence, until the girl became desperate. So that at last she " completed her shame, bringing disgrace on the family," by marrying a jobbing merchant in active business. To be sure, he was a respectable man, of unblemished character. But of what consequence was that in the eyes of Henry R. S. T. Du Barry? He never forgave his sister, he never would speak to her. Fortunately, her name was changed, and the Du Barrys of the next generation would not suffer by this mesalliance. By degrees, one little patch of property after another was sold, until the owner was reduced to his house and a few vacant lots. Things began to look so ugly, that the proprietor rarely went beyond the precincts of his home, where he maintained his state of almost pauperism in dogged endurance. His wife was dead; Alfred was at school; no one remained at home with him  but his oldest child, a handsome girl of eighteen. She was watched over by her father so jealously, that she was almost a prisoner. She managed to make, however, stolen visits to her aunt, who lived very handsomely, and whose husband   ElRY   R. 5. T. DU BARRY. every day. ere she learned many was e  ttin richer eee w e n   esaw how foolish were her father's illusions, and began to unerstan  how wretched ould beome her condition if she were forced to yield always to them.  lly reached a result. Nature was stronger than filial regard. Maria; that was her name; kept up her new life by the aid and syfmpathy of her aunt. This involved her in a series of daily deceptions toward her father. The end came quickly enough.  One day she asnked to speak with him particularly. There folowed a terrible scene. aria announced that she was engaged to a young broker The fther's rage was unmitigated Ie cursed his daughter by awful oaths. Hle forbade her leaving the house. Hie shut her in her rooinm, and fed her, for two days, on bread andti water. On the third day the bird had flown, and the next became M1rs. Aaolphus Drinker. She hacd got a good-natured, kind-hearted husband; a bright, active young man, not particularly well educated, who sometimes had plenty of money and sometimes had but little. At this time he had been successful in "Rock Island," and was flush. The consequence was, that in the period of good feeling which succeeded his marriage, Drinker purchased the mortgage which bore so heavily on his father-in-law,    At mortgage wi             of turning. and which, indeed, threatened to be the meanS of turning him out of doors. This accomplished, he framed what he considered a very eloquent and touching letter, which I   68     TO-DAY: A ROMANCE. need not inscribe here, and which was not specially re- markable for its originality or tact, though it came from a kind heart. He announced what he had done, assured old Du Barry he never would be called on for the money, and hoped to see him, at an early day, at No. -W. Fourteenth-street, where he and his wife were then boarding. To cap the climax he wound up by sub- scribing himself) "Your affectionate So "! Henry R. S. T. Du Barry received the missive with feelings of mingled mortification and rage. To attempt to lay him under obligation! It was the trick of a paltry broker. To dare to purchase a claim against him! The old fellow prepared several indignant responses, all of which proving unsatisfactory, were each in their turn destroyed. He was not equal to the occasion. He did not long survive this last crowning blow to his pride. He took to his bed, and died, I am inclined to think, of sheer vexation. The world had become inex- plicable to him. His family had apostatized. His boy was not old enough to afford him consolation, and it was doubtless time to go. Nobody missed him.  His daughter gave him  a highly respectable burial, when she and her husband, and Mrs. Ferris with her husband, appeared in handsome mourning very becoming to both. Little Alfred was sent for from Scotenskopft, and returned, immediately after the funeral, in a new suit of black. The whole affair was over in three days; the death; the mourning; the interment. Henry R. S. T. Du Barry was laid aside in the family-   way near Houston-street, on which was inscribed, "One mile to New York or the old pear-tree on the corner of Thirteenth street and the Bowery.   CHAPTER VI. TH]E RIVALS AT THE c "SELECT SCHOOL." SOMrE time before this, two boys entered the "Select School"1 together. They came from New York. They Tere about the same age and were to pursue the same course of study. One was Tom Castleton, the other Alfred Du Barry. They were about ten years old.  Tom's father was one of the most eminent physicians in the city, and in his professional character had becom acquainted with the elder Du Barry. The latter was attracted by the superior bearing of Castleton, whose fame was daily increasing. The other was also inter- ested in the strange character of his patient; and, to the astonishment of every body, it resulted in Du Barry's giving the Doctor his confidence to such a degree as to  consent to send his little boy to a school of his recom- mendation. In this way the boys became associated, and an inti. macy was formed which, as we see, was lasting. Tom Castleton was what people called a "very fine boy." His feelings were quick, his nature sensitive, and his conscience tender. He was a "forward child" in his  studies and eagerly devoured what books were put in his reach.  O0   But he was not precocious in the ways of the world; on the contrary, his notions were specially immature. He looked at what was going on around him with some such degree of curiosity as he might regard the mysteri- ous performance of a skilful juggler. As his childhood advanced, this was undiminished. Every thing outside his ordinary daily life was, to him, difficult to be understood. This was because he could form no idea of the world's machinery. He was not sharp or keen in that knowledge. It was owing a good deal to his education. The Doctor was too much occu- pied to pay much attention to his son, and he imbibed all his intellectual nurture from his mother; a soft, gentle- hearted woman, of great religious fervor, who had but one thought, which was, to bring up her son " pure and unspotted from the world," and to see him fearlessly proclaiming the Word of the Lord and calling sinners to repentance. This was her constant hope and prayer, which she did not attempt to disguise. Her husband did not interfere with her expressed wishes. If he had any objection to tem, he probably thought time would do more than the force of any suggestions to moderate extreme views. I say that Tom's ignorance of what was going on in the world was owing partly to his training; but much of it was due to a certain quality of nature; which quality does not depend on birth or education or other earthly circumstance, but is a portion of the divine spark with which every soul, when created, is imbued; some souls so generously, that we call their natures god-like; others   72      TO-DAY: A ROMANCE. so meagerly, that we are content to name them fiends in human shape. Between these extremes is found every possible variety of character and habit. It goes to make up the medley we call the " world," which, with its currents and counter-currents, its phases of good and evil, is the per- petual subject of discourse for priest, moralist, and philosopher. As to Mrs. Castleton, the poor woman little knew sle was taking the worst course with her son. by endeavor- ing, studiously, to shut out from his understanding all knowledge of the working of sin and iniquity, except the theoretical notion of it, whieh was inculcated to an excess. Neither did she appear to understand that, to be enabled to rebuke wickedness in high places, you should know something about it and its operations, by a humane, sympathizing contact with every-day life; and that, to a lack of this knowledge, is due the waning influence of the clergy, who cannot comprehend that they are dealing with warm flesh and blood and passionate impulses and quick emotions, and that the world is driving on in its career with a thunder-speed, exclaiming, as it sweeps along, "Keep up with us, or stay behind and be for- gotten." She did her best, though, this soft, gentle, affectionate woman. So Tom. at the age of ten, was sent to the Select School," along with Alf Du Barry, after receiving many kind admonitions from  his mother about the numerous temptations to which he would constantly be exposed, and of which he could not comprehend one   THE RIVALS AT THE "SELECT SCHOOL." 73 word; only he thought he 'must perpetually be on the lookout for something terrible likely to befall him. He had one especial cause of terror, which he dared not mention: the thought that he was to be a clergy- man. he had about as clear an idea of one as of an angel. For to him the minister was an object of awe; a cold, comfortless creature, of absolute perfection. How could he ever stand up in the pulpit, and, with- out once opening his eyes, make a prayer half an hour long? Supposing he should be "stuck" before he was half through, what would become of him? The expe- dient occurred to him that to provide against this he could write out the prayer, and commit it to memory, keeping it secretly before him on the desk. Possibly he could open his eyes sufficiently to refresh his mind with- out being discovered. If he were only an Episcopalian! You see what an honest, simple nature Tom had, and how, at this period, it caused him a good deal of uneasi- ness. Alf Du Barry was quite a different sort of boy. He had been much with his father, and was in the habit of listening to his satire and acrimonious observations. He was not old enough to be greatly influenced by them, but it made him sharp and quick-witted as to what was going on. He was a first-class well-bred boy, but he had been his father's principal companion, while Tom was at his mother's side. It did not take these boys long to compare notes. They had opposite qualities enough to make them attached to each other; and under the excellent training at the 4   74   TO-DAY: A ROMANCE. Select School, they soon settled into friendly rivalry in study and general progress. Tom's idea, that things were exactly as they seemed, became somewhat modified by Allfs fee and easy comments, patterned after his father's table-talk, while he was himself insensibly impressed by his intercourse with his new companion. A little, incident occurred about the te ti the boys were to go home for their first vacation, which proved to be of some importance. Tom had given loose to his spirits in an unusual degree and was jumping noisily about the schoolroom in great glee, when one of the older girls, who still remained to study an extra lesson, and whom he disturbed by the noise he was making, exclaimed, "A pretty sort of clergyman you will make when you grow up!" The rebuke struck Tom to his heart's core. It was true, he thought; and if true, he must relinquish all these happy ebullitions, and compose himself to a staid deportment. The thought made him wretched, but out of it came his deliverance. He concluded he was utterly unfit for the sacred office; and the idea afforded him a kind of consolation. While- at the breakfast-table, the morning after returning home at the end of the first ter, he suddenly exclaimed, "Mamma, Jane Leroy, one of our best scholars, thinks I am not good enough to be a minister." Dr. Castleton raised his eyes gravely and fixed them on Tom. He was struck with the mixture of anxiety and iBBsoisS41PI;Enlpsl-qW      ^ n   THE RIVALS AT THE "SELECT SCHOOL." 75 relief which was manifest in his eager and expressive face. The Doctor had a profound knowledge of men and things. ITe took in Tom's position at a glance. He felt reproached. He had neglected the boy. To be sure he was in the best of hands, his mother's; but he should have looked after him before this. "My son," he asked, kindly, " do you wish to become a clergyman? Tell me just how you feel." Mrs. Castleton was greatly alarmed, and would have spoken, but a look from her husband restrained her. "Try," continued the Doctor, encouragingly, " to tell us exactly your mind." "I suppose," said Tom, who could not endure to wound his mother's feelings, "I suppose I would, if I were good enough. I suppose I ought to." "Not at all," answered the Doctor. "There is no more reason why you should want to be a clergyman than a lawyer or a doctor. You need not think any thing about it at present. Indeed, 1 prefer you should not, unless it is agreeable for you to do so. When you get out of col- lege it will'be time enough for you to decide what profes- sion you will pursue; and then follow your tastes." He spoke with decision and emphasis. Tom was scarcely eleven years old, but he comprehended the letter and the spirit of his father's words; comprehended that they were out of a clear, governing intellect and a loving heart. He looked at his mother; the tears stood in her eyes. She said nothing, she did not even look reproachfully. For her sake, Tom was on the point of saying he had k,   TO-DAY: A ROANCE. resolved to be a clergyman but his conscience would not p  ermit. It tol him he mst respect his father's words. is heart was relieved of a heavy burden. At his early age he had already borne it a long time. How few really think of the sufferings of child1ood sufferings from being sensitive or ignorant or imaginative. What coloring these give to our lives, we understa too late. Fortunately, Tom is relieved from his principal trouble. So that we have not to chronicle the life of   b lad made miserable by early impressions. He will have diffi- culties enough, we all know; but he has surmounted the first great peril.                th   CHURCH OF THE APOSTOLIC SUCCESSION. " CHAPTER VII. THE CHURCH OF THE APOSTOLIC SUCCESSION, AT this time the Rev. Croton Ellsworth was the in- cumbent of the Episcopal church at Scotenskopft. For half a century the inhabitants had been content to worship at the "Dutch Reformed church," which was situated about a mile and a half from the river; all except the family of Mr. Parkhurst Bellamy, a large land-owner, who drove five miles and back every Sunday to Pootskill, in order to be under the efficacious dispensation of the church of St. Thomas. By degrees new families began to settle at Scotens- kopft, among whom were many of the true faith, which determined Mr. Bellamy to make an effort to improve this missionary ground, as he called it, and have a parish created and a consecrated church. On one of his visits to the Bishop, he encountered the Rev. Croton Ellsworth, a young man of sharp intellect, fine looking, well educated, and ambitious. He was already married, and had a little boy four or five years old. This little boy is our friend Harry, whom we know already. Croton had come up not only under the very eye of the Bishop, with whom he was remotely connected, but he was the favorite of two maiden ladies, ancient spinsters, whose lives were centred in the church and in the espe- *i   78      TO-DAY: A ROMANCE. cial care of interesting young clergymen, who, on their part, were devoted to them in a touching degree. It was charming to witness the court paid by Croton to these antiques when he was a theological student in New York, and in return how they purred and fussed over him. More than that; for these excellent creatures were rich old maids, not of the poverty-stricken, forlorn stamp, oh, no; Croton received from them presents in- numerable, and enjoyed, through their favor, facilities for going into society, and I know not what else. In return, they had frlom him the most assiduous attentions. In my opinion he purchased his privileges at a dear rate; but he did not seem to think so. He waited on them; he went on their errands; he put them in their carriage and he took them out; he helped do their shopping. Then he would read prayers before them in private, and beg for their severe criticism on his manner, intonation, and general appearance. Croton Ellsworth was the best-dressed theological student in the city. It was a mystery to many how he managed it; for it was well known that he had not a. penny of his own. As I have myself nothing to conceal, I shall inform you that the Miss Marlinspikes,-this was the name of the interesting couple [they always wrote themselves the "Misses Marlinspike," which, I am told, is the correct and proper thing; but I have adhered to the old fashion]-I say the Miss Marlinspikes took entire charge of it. The time spent over the habit of young Croton would astonish you. The exact length of this long, unctuous-looking garment; there was not masculinity DYY IICVI LVI LIU V *IWH UILIt   CtRB t OF T1t]I APOSTOLIC  UCC1SSIO   '79 enough in it to be called a coat; occupe thei seriou and affectionate attention . While they wished their protdg' to assume all the honors which could possibly attach to his sacred position, it was not proper, before taking holy orders, to have this habit of quite the same extent as did the clergy. It was decied, therefore, that Croton should abate just a quarter of an inch from the standard measure, which would enable him to escape the censure of his superiors, and yet wear a garment which could appear perfectly clerical to the untutored eye. It took Croton a long time to fix n a immaculate color for his gloves, though aided by his kind friend. A pale salmoncolor was at length adopted. Elegant button half-boots with black gaiters, a hat rather h igh and wide of brim, completed his walking-costue. From this e never deviated.  Sedate, with a look of mild a miability, C roton pursued his way. lie never relaxed; he never was off-guard; he never laughed loud, nor betrayed himself by exclmation. He hal learned the value of form and ceremony, and resolved to entrench himself behind them. What Croton might have become ue   ifferent cir cumstances, I do not undertake to say.  have only to Ideal with find him. He was a long-headed,  remorseless fellow with much more natu  t tn his fourth cousinth Bishop; and he resolved to turn all these appliances to the best account. He had married immediately on taking orders, because the issMarlinspikes desired it. In a sentimental fit they ha adopte a little girl itout any history, and she they had adopted a little gir   had now grown into a young lady. She was destined for Croton, and Croton made up his mind to swallow the pill if it was to be sugar-coated. lie modestly remarked, that while it was his chief desire, next to the good of holy church, to possess so precious an earthly treasure as Esther, still his dear friends knew just how he was situated with reference to this world's goods. A satisfactory con- ference followed, and Croton was married to his beloved in three weeks thereafter. The next four or five years were passed in an extensive tour of Europe, in company with the Marlinspikes. On their return, he undertook many little services for the Bishop, and preached, from time to time, in different places, as occasion required. On a second interview with Mr. Bellamy, the Rev. Croton Ellsworth decided to accept this new charge; it had been previously offered him; the Miss Marlinspikes and the Bishop advising heartily to the course. The excitement in the little village was very great when it was known that a new church was to be estab- lished. But when it was actually erected, when it had received its interior decorations, including stained glass windows, circles of low steps surrounding and leading to something very like an altar, huge candlesticks with long candles, a cross surmounting the pulpit and a cherub-boy, imported from New York, in the appropriate cherub wardrobe, to open and shut the door, to advance and  retreat backward, to wheel and turn according to the last approved evolutions; I say, when all these interior decorations were made, the excitement had no bounds. "!r ^ ^  ^   M -   CtUECH 0F  THE ApOSTOLIC    u  , . Great was the joy of the faithful. The old-fashionled eople, ho ere satisfie to worship as their fathers ad done, said it looked like popery, but th e y oung folks ere generally pleased with it. They were getting tired of the old style. It was too gloomy; besides, it was time the village had a church of its own. The Rev. Croton Ellsworth took up his residence at Scotenskopft, and displayed so much energy, industry, sl, nd good-wil tlhat it as soon dicovered his m- io waSasucces is church icrease Bell   on one sde,  the arlspikes on the other, how could it be otherwise?  The Rev. Croton, among other active duties, under- took to bring the "Select School" under his supervision. A single interview with r. and ss etteng  stsfed him of the hopelessness of his plan. e had more than met his match, and he was shrewd enough to ith m from the attack before he should leave a disagreeable im- pression. More than this, when Harry was a little older, he was sent to this very school, where his progress was extremely satisfactory. tarry's most intimate companion was Charley Graves, whose father was the coal-merchant of that section, and whose mother set up for a fine lady. She was a poor relative of the Tolover family, a very high little church- woman, and in xcding intimate relations with thelElls- worths. worth6e set were the Randalls. Peter Belonging to the same set wee the Rand . Peter Randall was a railroad-contractor, and mad e goowas a of money every year, which he spent freely. i as a   whole-souled, generous fellow, liked by every one. Iis wife was an engaging, fascinating woman, very much in the good graces of the Rev. Croton, but not at all liked ly little Mrs. Graves, who considered her "a large, awk- ward, and ungainly person." Alas, how jealousy blinds the eyes! Mrs. Randall was very finely formed, fine-  looking, and graceful; in fact, by far the handsomest woman in the neighborhood. So we see that thelittle Virginia comes honestly by her beauty and her bonhion. I am aware I have not described a very aristocratic society; indeed I dare say, some of my fine readers whose fathers, perhaps, were not half as good as Graves hey shall beintroducel to a cla b adapted to ods Graves the coal-merchant, and Randall the railroad-contractor will be greatly disappointed, if not disgusted, that I have desine to linge, about the pleasa g  d that I have not arranged a better pedigree for my heroes and hero- ines. I beg them not to be impatient. I promise, as my story advances, that these matters shall be corrected, and they shall be introduced to a class adapted to their present tastes, if not to their origin. Meanwhile, I confess I have a desire to linger about the pleasant little place, and watch the progress of the school. At this time, a sweet-tempered, lovely young woman; a widow; occupied a small one-story house, about half a mile from the river, with her only child, a little boy. She was known as Mrs. Holt. She herself was an orphan, and, before her marriage, had lived with her uncle and aunt, who were wealthy people, in fashionable life, and who had adopted this niece; so it was generally I   understood. At all events, she enjoyed in the house all the privileges of a daughter, being, at the same time, pet- ted and almost spoiled by indulgence. Suddenly this fascinating girl disappeared from soci- ety, and nothing more was heard of her in the gay co- teries of New York life. It was a nine-days' wonder, and then it was over. Gertrude Lansing was now Mrs. Wil- liam Holt, and had gone into obscurity. Holt was a landscape-painter of merit, a finely-educated, genial, accomplished gentleman. He was a superior man, every way, to nine of ten that Gertrude met. Yes, he was superior to the wholesale drygoods merchant, and large importer of silks, and the rich broker, and the junior-partner of a leading banking-house, all of whom paid their court to Gertrude, and all of whom were considered eligible aspirants to her hand by her uncle and aunt. But Holt was poor. That was the blot. Gertrude did not think so. She loved him; and, after a period, Holt asked her uncle to give his consent to their marriage. He met with a quiet refusal; so quiet that the young artist took hope, believing that the uncle would yield. He lit- tle knew his man. To be sure, there was no exhibition of passion, as in the case of old Du Barry. Indeed, you would not suppose there had any thing happened out of the usual course. Mr. Lansing simply called Gertrude to him, and said, "This is a match I do not approve of. If you choose to marry the man, I shall provide for you as I think your position requires. You need not say a word: do as you think best: we shall have no scenes."   84      TO-DAY: A R OMANCE. The end was, that Gertrude married the artist. The wedding was strictly private, in her uncle's back-parlor. No one was present except the uncle and aunt and their clergyman. The ceremony over, Mr. Lansing presented Gertrude with a check for one thousand dollars. Nothing was said, but she knew this was virtually to sever all relations. Holt hired a cottage at Scotenskopft, and the thousand dollars furnished it. Gertrude was more than content with her lot: she was very happy. Her character daily developed new beauties. Her husband labored assiduously, and with fair success. His health, however, was unsettled. He had a good many cares to tax him, which Gertrude, as she had been educated, could not be presumed to understand. This constant application, and the ordinary anxiety of providing for his home, at last affected him sensibly. One lovely morning, about the first of June, he rose earlier than usual, to work at a beautiful landscape, which was nearly finished; it was a scone in the Highlands, which had taxed his best efforts. When Gertrude, an hour after, tripped down-stairs and stole softly into the room behind him, intending to surprise her husband at his labors by a tender salutation, she discovered his arm relaxed and his head fallen on one side. His fingers still retained the pencil. He was dead. The morning sun streamed through the casement, and the birds were singing joyously. Gertrude stood without breath or motion. In that one minute she comprehended the great revelation; in that one minute it was complete.   CuC:I  0F TE APOSTOLIC sUCCE      O  85 God had made this revelation, sudden as it was, so ten- derly, that it did not appal her. She kneeled ad laid her head against her husband's shoulder, and pressed her fter the departure of the sp       attentiverit. Mr. and Miss Pettengill were very kind anti attentie on this occasion. They undertook to give notice of the melancholy event to ir. Lansing, the uncle. The result was, an answer, by return mail, enclosing a check for one hundred dollars for funeral expenses. I do not think they ever said any thing to Gertrude about this, but they too on themselves the whole charge of the funeral, and dis- tributed the money with economy. Some ine pictures which the artist left, were sold at good price, by their in- fluene, hih gave the  idow a pittane for  her support. If ever affliction was sanctified to human he loss was blessed ad thrice blessed to Gertrude Iolt. For out of it blossomed in her hearthope and charity and the richest experience, all of which bore "fruit unto per- fection." When then the ev. Croton Ellsrth assumed the charge of the Church of the Apostolc Succession, and the care of souls therein, his attention was speedily directed to the  condition of the young widow. Perhap s you think I mean-to what was called her sad wi perty wich gathe situation, struggling as she was with pverty, with the care of a delicate child, and almost friendless. I do not mean that at all. The reverend gentleman found that, although he had now preached for two Sundays t Sce-   86     TO-D AY: A ROMANCE. tenskopft, Mrs. Holt continued to attend the old place of worship. He soon ascertained that Gertrude had been brought up in the proper faith by her uncle, who was a zealous churchman. Overflowing with a sense of the enormity of her con- duct, he called on the widow. tie was received with so much refinement and gentleness, that a less determined heart than his must have been softened. Not so with the Rev. Croton. He looked severely around the apartment, as if hoping to find some cause for censure to stimulate and give point to his observations. His eyes fell on the little boy, who was on the floor playing. "What is the matter with him?" he said, in a tone so chilling that the little fellow instantly slunk out of the room. This question disposed of, he entered on a severe reprimand of Mrs. Holt, and dwelled so much on her reprehensible conduct, that the poor woman promised in future to attend the church in the village. "It is true," she said, "I was so educated, and I will return." The next Sunday she kept her word. But the atmo- sphere of the place was withering to her soul. In vain she sought consolation in the beautiful and impressive service. It was delivered in a tone and manner which, to Ger- trude, were intolerable. It destroyed almost the power to make the responses. She could not endure it. Twice she made the effort; and then, without word or explanation, or indeed obser- vation, she went with her son quietly black to the old meeting-house, and resumed her old seat.   CHCO ]S TH AposTOLIC   CCES    0'8T There was no attempt at remonstranc-  er  ase  There W            (I ao W as left to the that of the hardened apostate; and she was left to the sentence, anathema maranatha, which the Rev. Croton Ellsworth pronounced with great solemnity. On the succeeding Sunday he preahed a sermon from Hebrews vi. 4-6  For it is impossible for those who were once enlightened, and have tasted of the heavenlY gift, and were made partakers of the oly Ghostrld And have tasted the good word of God and the powers of the world to come, If they shall fall away, to rene them again unto repentance; seeing they crucify to themselves the Son of God afresh, and put him to an open shame. I do not know how it happened, but every one in the congregation understood this discourse was prepared in conrsequenc of the o lamentable backsliding of the Widow HoltY. From that day she was regarded by those in the church set" as an object of aversion. LittleBill came in for a sare of this, not niversally, but from many. Hlarry EllwOTFlth, for example, taing the cue o father's conversation at the breafastable  fun to harry the little skelet,  he alle him.  e would run aginst him, as if by mistake, and laugh to see him go down  or he would turn over his ded, orub sO in hi face on some pretended slight.   Then he snow in his face on ,somee. It was gener- l fouan a  new name for him--"C   tkeyeger ally adopted, not so much through bad feeling, or with any desire to ridictule, but from the facility with which   88      TO-DAY: A ROMANCE. nicknames are seized on. It was afterward modified to "Cockee," by which term he was generally known. For a time this produced little effect on him. He tried to laugh at his own misfortunes, and make the best of them; but when, in consequence, he found himself treated as half-idiot as well as half-deformed, it roused a  temper which soon became fierce and vindictive. Meanwhile the Rev. Croton Ellsworth pursued his triumphant career; the assumed representative of the meek and lowly ONE, who, nearly two thousand years before, had said, "Come to me, all ye who are weary and heavy-laden, and I will give you rest."   "TTL  CLAg  A I D IR ASSOCIATES'   8 CHAPTER VIII. TUE IuTTLE CLA1v AND HE  ASSITES IT was mismmer when the little Clara arrived at Scotenskopft. The lon vacatio ha comme nce and the house and shool-room were deserted. Te great change in her situation and surroundings tvould seei to haveorto almost never made any allusion to her former home or to a recollection of former scenes. Once; it was the week after her arrival; there was the following brief colloquy, on th e occasion of .iss5 ettengill's helping Clara to dress. larae .  Do you know why Dora did not come with Clare,    nt othiy   p me?  Miss P.' Wtho is Dora--your cousin? Clara daughing) MY cousin I mean black Dora Miss P. And who is black Dora? i2Clara. Black Dora used to be my nurse; but when I grew up - (the little thing was nely eight) he wa mymaid. Can you tell me why she did not come too? Mfiss? I cannot. probably your uncle id not think Claa reeti). I think, perhaps, I know why. A short silence ensues.   90      TO-DAY: A ROMANCE. Clara (musing). I wonder what will become of her! There being no response, the subject ended.  It revealed the fact that Clara did think more than she expressed to Miss Pettengill, who, while she did not discourage conversation about the child's former home, was careful not to provoke it. It is probable that Clara had received some instruc- tions on this head from her mother; for she liked to talk, and never tired asking about the novelties which met her on every side. The long, regular line of perpendicular cliffs across the river, which we call the "Palisades," and which were in full view, was an object of great admira- tion and wonder. To Clara these magnificent battle- ments were enchanted castles, filled with enchanted beings; and she could not understand why every body did not enjoy looking at them as she did. Then the river was so deep and clear, unlike the turbid waters of her native streams, and the boats and ships and steamers looked so cheerful passing up and down. Before the school should reassemble there was time for Clara to become accustomed to these new pictures, so that she need not excite the laughter or curiosity of her companions. So thought Miss Pettengill, who was doing all in her power to make her feel at home. At first she attempted to trace resemblances between Clara and her mother. The task was difficult, since none really existed. She had now to deal with a superior soul, a larger intellect, and a more resolute will; with a being totally different from the laughing, charming, pretty creature who had so captivated every body, and who was   "TTLE CLARA AND HJER ASSOCIATES. 91 every body's favorite; who was so yielding, so dependent, so winning, and so much liked. "'It is best so," exclaimed Mehitabel Pettengill, with a sigh. "It is best so. It shall be a new interest, not an old heartache revived." And so it was ever after. She no longer thought of the little Clara in connection with a former period. The old memory was laid back in its place,-only to return at intervals as a tender but sad recollection of the past. It was not long before a strong interest was awakened in the new comer. Mehitabel was very carefu how he betrayed it, lest it might prove another disappointment. Sedate and thoughtful as she always appeared, the heart of the schoolmistress was fresh. hier pupils in- stinctively understood this, and loved her because of it. She had labored a lifetime unremittingly to develop and improve them. It was a life unpretending, unambitious, uneventful. All the while a young heart beat under the formal outside, which sometimes rebelled against its lot. Yes, her pupils loved her; but how many, when they quitted the school, took any thought of Mehitabel Petten- gill, communing with hersef, sorrowing over their de- parture after so many years of happy intercourse? How many, indeed! No one knew what had been her early history. Had any thing occurred to make that face so pale, the eyes so thoughtful, and the form so wasted-I mean any thing beyond what the deep mourning might indicate? Had there been a want, once filled, or thought to be, which, on the trial, gave only a residuum of withered leaves-bitter   92      TO-DAY: A ROMANCE. ashes? Was it out of some yearning for an object to love that she attached herself so to her pupils-? Who can tell! With her brother it was different. Like Miss Petten- gill, he was the most faithful of teachers; but his delight was in the work itself, not in the individual; in the study, not in the pupil. What to others seemed a task, was to him a perpetual pleasure. When his pupils left the school, it was a source of congratulation that he had made so much of them, and that they were ready to go. While his sister regarded a new comer as likely to prove a trial of her feelings, he looked with delight to fresh arrivals, eager to bring them under the test of his theory and practice of education. A rare, innocent, simple-hearted old pedant he was considered by many of his city " patrons," with a head crammed with a heap of useless lore; who had, neverthe- less, an excellent faculty for teaching, and whose pupils made most satisfactory progress. Pedant, indeed! No man living had ever less claim to the title than Amos Pettengill. He was an indefati- gable student, but not in the least cramped by forms or mannerisms, nor had he the consciousness of his own merit or acquirements. He labored without stint to in- struct and improve, and he had the gift of making serious things appear fresh and attractive. This he accomplished by avoiding the beaten path, lest it should become tedi- ous or disagreeable. Next to the Bible, he reverenced the works of Plato. While his pupils might have turned from the inspired volume with a distaste produced by   "TTLE CARA AND    H  . ASSOCIATES.    93 "TTLE CLA some unpleasant association, it was quite another thing to repeat out of a great Grecian philosopher. Mr.  ttengi  translte  with care select passages, which all in school committed to memory and rehearsed drmaticall in  dialogue. The only freedom the teacher ever took, with the text was translating, in certain in- stances, the word " coL" (gods) into the name of the Su- preme Being. It would seem very ridiculous, would it not, to witness, in a fashionable school of To Day, boys and girls uniting in the following, which is taken from one of the extracts which Mr. Pettengill translated from the Firs Alcibiades." Soc. If a man acts badly, is he not miserable? Ale. Very much so, indeed. Soc. Then it is not possible for those who are neitlher wise nor good to be blessed with happiness? Ale. There is no doubt of it. Soc. All bad men are then miserable? Ale. Particularly so tedor extcated Soc. Then it is not by riches that we can be eemptedor extricated from misery, but by wise goodness? Ale. Certainly. [And so on.] These exercises were brief and varied. The extracts were from  "The Apology of Socrates," "The Phedo,' "The Timreus," "The Gorgias," "Crito;" and to most of the older pupils they we're always interesting. I dare say a majority of my readers will skip this page; but it will meet from some, I am confident, a genial appreciation.   - - - I%- V L "  X l' 1  I When Tom Castleton and Alf Du Barry returned to school, early in the Autumn, they found Clara fairly in- stalled in her new home. Tom, it will be remembered, goes back with a light heart, relieved of the nightmare which had so much tor- mented him. He still continued to regard things as they seemed; which will get him into trouble enough by and by; but for the present it makes matters only appear the. brighter, even if they are not understood. So, for a time, Tom is content to enjoy what is around him, with- out vexing himself about the mystery which envelops the whole. It was the most natural thing in the world that these two New York lads should be attracted by the new scholar; first because she was a girl, again because she was from a long way of, and her manner was droll, and she looked odd to them. Besides, she was "smart;" they soon found that out, for, as a matter of course, the first thing they did was to commence teasing her. She was such an "innocent," Alf said, and believed every thing any body told her; and he would amuse himself trying to impose on her credulity. It did not take Clara long to discover this; and then Alf was punished by finding himself regarded as a boy on no account to be relied on. He was glad to retrieve is character by a pretty long career of undeviating good conduct. Tom's mode of teasing was different. He would not mislead by wrong statements; but he liked to put ques. tions, and to perplex by supposed examples about right   and wrong, wherein he would occasionally indulge in sophistry. He was much taken by Clara's intelligence, and the quickness with which she soon learned to unmask and retort on him. As Tom and Alf had insensibly become not only inti- mate companions but loyal friends and allies, pledged to each other, " rescue or no rescue," espousing each other's difficulties, ready to fight each other's battles, and so forward, it came to be that Clara was admitted as a tiers etat, and after a while she was entirely in their councils, and the triumvirate (if I may use the term where one of the three is of the gentler sex) was complete. Clara, it is true, was not as far advanced as the boys. She was at least three years younger; but we all know that in childhood girls have altogether the advantage in quickness of perception and aptitude for learning. Clara was insensibly coming up to the standard of her two friends; and if she was not as forward as they, Tom used to remark that she said and did more to set them thinking than the teacher himself. Before this, however, Miss Pettengill's plans for Clara had undergone an entire revolution. In the long summer vacation which I have already mentioned, she had devoted a great deal of time to becoming well acquainted with her charge and in making her feel at home. She discovered, almost from the begin- ning, that Clara would never tax her solicitude in the way her mother had done. She was too well poised; she had too much self-respect. This apprehension entirely allayed, the school-mistress -.'.-Z  .:TY   96      TO-DAY: A ROM3ANCE. began to indulge in other visions. She would keep Clara near her; she would subject her to the most perfect train- ing; she would watch and cultivate every thought and emotion; she would direct and assist every development, and would guard against every possible mistake by the most careful attention. Non-, these were very foolish ideas. Could Miss Pet- tenrgill have been left free to her own clear, discriminating judgment, no one would pronounce against them sooner than she. But she was like a mother who had lost a beloved child through some imprudent exposure, and who becomes morbidly solicitous about the one remaining to her. The result was that Miss Pettengill, in keeping Clara so closely to herself, fostered her enthusiasm and ro- mance to an unnatural degree. These are displayed, if ever, at an early agre, when they require to be pruned and subdued, or possibly encouraged to expansion. Clara came under the first category: un- fortunately, she was treated as if she belonged to the last. She gave signs of so much promise, she attracted her teacher by so many exhibitions, that her ordinary careful discrimination was completely lost sight of. It is true, there appeared nothing feverish or forced in Clara's manifestations of feeling. Her enthusiasm was unbounded; but it was mainly for what she saw in Na- ture, or about what she heard or could read of the heroic and good.  But would it stop here? The exact peril could not be predicted, only that there was danger. A fortunate occurrence opened Miss Pettengill's eyes before it was too late, and, as I have hinted, produced a   "TTLE CLARA AND HER ASSOCIATES. 97 complete change of regimen for the little lady. I will give an account of it. Her first season at Scotenskopft had been one of mar- vels to Clara. She had never before beheld snow; she had never witnessed the formation of ice. The situation of the school, on the high ridge above the village, was admirable for the display of the scenes of winter. To look across to the Palisades, you could easily imagine the Storm-King dwelt there and held his revels. It happened this year that the snow fell early, and the cold was severe. The Hudson was frozen over. That magnificent water-course, so lately covered with every kind of vessel, was chained by the inexorable despot. Clara enjoyed it beyond measure, and never was tired of expressing her admiration. One morning, early in January, Miss Pettengil was roused from a very satisfactory slumber by repeated knocks at the door. It was Clara. ' Aunt Mehitabel;"  so she was taught to call her; "' Aunt Mehitabel, you must get up and come to my win- dow directly." The urgency of the summons was not to be resisted. In considerable alarm and but half awake, Miss Pettengill rose, and, opening her door in haste, followed the child to her own little chamber, which faced the east. There hap- pened to be a full-moon.  The plain beyond theXhouse was covered with crusted snow, and the first glimmering streaks of daylight were visible. "Lookl" exclaimed Clara; "look!   There is the moonlight and the daylight and the morning-star!" 5   TO-DAY: A ROMANCE. The schoolmistress did look. But, beyond a single glance, not through the window, at the scene which had been pointed out, but at the child who was standing before her, with bare feet, in her night-gown. It was an intensely cold morning, the thermometer sev- eral degrees below zero. There she stood, her face glow- ing in a fine frenzy, and her eyes exhibiting a strange lustre. The first feeling of Miss Pettengill was one of sheer vexation at being summoned from a comfortable bed to witness an ordinany winter landscape; but the expres. sion of Clara's face, as she pointed with an air of triumph to the scene, disarmed her. Another look at the child's burning face opened a new train of thought. The tran- sition from one extreme of feeling to another is rapid. And the transition was made. "Are you not glad I called you? asked Clara, as if certain what the reply would be. "Very glad-very glad, indeed," was the honest response. As soon as she could do so without appearing to be too precipitate, Miss Pettengill put Clara back in bed, and retraced her steps to her own room, her teeth chat- tering with the cold while she repeated, "Very glad-very glad, indeed. "What have I been doing?" she continued. "I have come  near ruining the child. Where were my eyes?  Of what was I thinking? I have kept her alto- gether too much to myself: she must have more play, more sliding down-hill, more tumbles in the snow, more     games. I will take her into the kitchen, and she shall learn how pies and krullers are made. I am yet in time." It is with satisfaction I record the change in affairs. It would not be at all to my taste to write the history of a little girl of eight, addicted to rousing honest people from their beds at daybreak of a cold morning in January, to show them the sheen of the moonlight, or the glitter of the morning-star, though both are doubtless very fine in their way. Clara soon learned to enjoy outdoor sports. She grew hardy and robust; none of her companions were more en- during or more fond of play. She remained always slight in person, and her complexion never changed from a clear pale. That, however, was natural. She enjoyed good health and firm nerves, and she had, very generally, to be called in the morning, instead of lying awake an hour before daylight.  :   CHAPTER IX. THE BATTLE OF SCOTENSKOPFT. As time advanced; and we are now on to the second winter; it produced a very unhappy effect upon Bill Holt. He had become; from an easy, accommodating, happy- hearted child, bitter, morose, and furious of temper. This was owing principally to Harry Ellsworth. For Harry, taking his cue from the sermon his father launched at the head of the young widow, commenced, entirely for his own amusement, a series of petty persecutions of little Bill. He could do this with great freedom, because Bill was the elder by more than a year, and it did not look like persecution. But Bill was a puny, delicate child, and Harry strong, robust, and large of his age. At last Bill began to resort to the ordinary defence of the weaker. He would throw sticks or stones, or anything he could lay his hand on, at his enemy, which gave Harry an excuse for severe retaliation; all, of course, unknown to the prin- cipal of the Select School. On one occasion Bill Holt had been stung to madness by being thrown into a snow-bank by Harry, in the pres- ence of several girls; among whom was the little Virgin- ia; who joined in the general laughter. Bill rose with S:;:"          00"--   revenge in his soul, and prepared what boys call an ice-ball, which is made by dropping a snow-ball in water and squeezing it till it becomes hard as ice. This he dis- charged full at his antagonist. The shot took effect on his arm, and no doubt was a pretty severe hit. In return, Harry, after a considerable chase, caught "Cockeye," and proceeded to hold his head under the snow. At first Bill was too proud to utter an exclamation; but finding his breath failing, he commenced to cry out as loud as he could. It only caused Harry to crowd his head deeper in the bank. At this moment Alf and Tom, with Clara and several others, came up. "He is murdering him," exclaimed Clara in alarm. Alf and Tom both sprang forward. "One is sufficient; let me deal with him," said Alf, who was a little in advance. "I say, you have punished him enough," said he, going up to Harry. "Mind your own business, Mr. Du Barry," said the other, giving another push to the prostrate boy, who ap- peared to be losing the power of utterance. It was the work of an instant for Alf to seize Harry Ellsworth by the collar and pull him off his victim. Harry rose, prepared to turn with fury on his new foe. "Look here," said Alf, quietly, "I am willing to stop where we are. I don't want the name of fighting a boy younger than I am." "I suppose you are afraid I shall serve you as I did Sqninteye there," said Harry, tauntingly. I                   I    TO-DA.: A ROMANCE. "Very much afraid, indeed," said Alf, in the same tone. This was more than the other could bear, and he threw himself on Alf with great rage. They were not unequally matched, either for size or strength, though Alf was the oldest. He had, holever, learned some "trick of fence " in the city gymnasium dur- ing his vacations, which lie brought to bear on Harry, and which soon resulted in his giving him a bloody nose and a black eye. Seeing the fortune of the day likely to turn against his friend, Charley Graves promptly came to the rescue hich immediately brouht out Tom Castleton; and this o., by,Ii C:a stleton ; and this  in turn, enlisted another village-boy, until the fiht became general. I will not say that the girls on both sides did not, in a measure, enar01ca  also. C, ad no measure, engage also. Certainly, as army-nurses, giving aid and comfort to the wouded, they were very effient. Indeed, it is my impression they permitted themselves also to serve in the light-artillery, discharging snow-balls in each other's faces. I know that Clara Dighy exhibited not only no alarm, fear, or repugnance to what was going on, but she stood resolutely by, encouraging Al and Tomm to do their work well, and show no quarter! You see, "blood will tell." You are your father's own child, Clara. How long the flght would have lasted, and what would have been the ultimatoe returns of killed and wounded, I do not know, for Mr. Pettengil, coming at this juncture firom the post office, found himself in the midst of it.   At first he could not believe the evidence of his senses. It must be, he thought, a set of rowdies from the city; but the size of the combatants undeceived him. Still it was impossible to distinguish any individuals, the confu- sion was so great. Some of the girls he did recognize. Coming up to Clara, who was in the act of discharging a snow-ball at a large village-girl, he asked her sternly what all this meant. She, was too much excited to pay any attention to him, but continued to load and fire with great regularity. "Are they possessed!" he exclaimed. "Where is Miss Pettengill?"Then rushing into the thickest of the combat, he cried out two or three times in a tone of real authority, "Boys, desist." The effect was magical. Discipline was at once re- stored. The boys stopped as if by common consent. Bloody noses were wiped, caps were sought after and reclaimed; the scholars from the village turned silently down the hill toward their homes, while the boarders were marshalled into the house. No such scene ever occurred before in the annals of the "Select School." What a commentary on human pas- sions! After all the careful training, the kind teachings, the excellent instructions, the moral lessons, the select readings from our Grecian philosopher! A single spark had fired the magazine, and the passions were aflame. A few years ago, when all Europe was in a quiescent state, we were told by the worthy members of our Peace - ...... .  -   104     TO-DAY: A ROMANCE. Societies that, under the enlightened and Christianized spirit of the age, wars were thenceforth impossible. The era of peace and good-will had begun, and was always to continue; for should, by any chance, a difficulty arise, it would speedily be settled by friendly arbitrament. Just as this highly satisfactory judgment was pro- claimed, a speck of trouble appeared in the East, which soon involved Russia and the Turk, with France, England, and Sardinia, in a bloody contest. Rapidly followed the fight of Austria with France and Italy, succeeded by the brutal raid of Prussia to rob Denmark. Then came the furious contest between Prussia and Austria, Italy and the Ger- man states. All Europe was ablaze, and the Peace Socie- ties confounded. It was the fight of Scotenskopft over again, on a more enlarged and sanguinary scale. Who will tell how strife and bloodshed shall in very practice be ended? I will call such a one Doctor of the Divine! All this time, little Bill Holt was lying on the snow insensible. He came near being left there; for the origin of the fight was soon lost sight of in the fury of the con- test. Mr. Pettengill discovered him, as he turned to bring up the rear, after the field had been vacated. Singularly enough, nobody had thought of Bill. The schoolmaster took the boy in his arms; he was very light; carried him into the house and placed him on   TIlE BATTLE OF SCOTESISOPFT.       105 hand. his own bed; then he applied such restoratves as were at Bill presently opened his eyes. Before he did so, Mr. Pettengill had opportunity to remark how frail and atten- uated he was. His face, always pale, was perfectly blood- less. His eyelids were closed, and the long black lashes and dark eyebrows contrasted strikingly with the extreme whiteness of the forehead and cheeks. No one could tell that he was squint-eyed now. His features were regular, and struck Mr. Pettengill, as he bent over him, as having great beauty is first "I am all right, ma; don't yo cy, were his first words, uttered with difficulty. Shortly he seemed to discover where hle was, and tried to get up; but NIr. Pettengill prevented him "You must lie quite still, till you are better, he said. "I am well enough," replied Bill; " and mother will be anxious if I stay away any longer." "What was the matter?" asked the teacher. "Oh, nothing much." "Has any one been hurting you?" "Me? No, indeed!" Bill would have died rather than make any complaint. " ery extraordinary," muttered Mr. Pettengill. A little while after, Tom Castleton came in to see Bill; and, finding the boy still anxious to go, offered to draw him home on his sled. This was declined, though Bill did not object to Tom's going along just for company; but after they had got a little way, he grew faint, and was willing to accept Tom's offer, which was renewed. t5   106     TO-DAY: A ROMANCE. Bill stayed from school a week, and Tom used to go and see him every day. He was surprised to find him so intelligent; but he was terribly shocked to discover what  bitter fellow he was, and how desperately he would talk. Tom could not help being  attracted toward the strange boy. Bill's illness thus brought the two together, and they became well acquainted. This had an important bearing on Bill, as we shall by and by see. Up to that time he had not been intimate with any one. lie lived a sort of Parthian life from the moment he left the house, each morning, till he returned to it. At home he experienced his mother's tenderness to the fullest pos- sible degree; but he kept from her all his troubles and concealed the gall and wormwood that filled his soul. In short, he never confided to her; he was too proud and self-willed; so that he lost the benefit of a mother's influ- ence. I dare not say altogether; for, while his nature was not softpned; indeed, grew harder; his heart was touched by her unremitting solicitude. He loved her, and was devoted to her; and it is much to love, even your mother to whom your affection is due. Mr. anad Miss Pettengill took a wise course in relation to the fiay. No allusion whatever was made to it in school. It is true, certain boys, including Alf and Tom, Harry and Charley, were treated to some private conver- sations by the teacher. I can find no evidence that a sin- gle word was spoken to any of the girls. Mr. and Miss   THE BATTLE   OF SCOTENSKOPFT.     107 Pettengill were certainly wise in their generation in the management of a school. With the exception of some bruised faces and discol- ored eyes, which required time for restoration, there was no token whatever in the appearance of the scholars or in their bearing toward each other of the contest of which I have given a veracious history. The peace of Europe was restored. Th   ec   108     TO-DAY: A ROMANCEiO. CHAPTER   X. ,BILL IIOLT COMMTS SACRILEGE. YEARS came and went, and the Select School kept on in its undeviating course. Scarcely a pupil is in attendance who was there when I first introduced it to the reader. New faces with new characters present themselves, to go over the old routine. Tom and Alf have gone to the Round Hill Academy, preparatory to entering college. These lads are sixteen years old. Bill Holt is sixteen also. He has grown quite tall, and looks paler and thinner than ever. He has con- tinued at the Select School; against the rule, it is true; but Mr. and Miss Pettingill relaxed in this instance, for a remarkable change came over Bill after the affair with Harry: I mean with respect to attention to his studies. He manifested a strong desire to learn; he was careless before; which the principals were glad to encourage. Notwithstanding this change, he became more and more solitary in his habits, and, except for his acquaintance with Tom, would have been completely isolated. Tom had been a year at Round Hill, and was on a visit to Scotenskopft, where both Alf and he came with great regularity every vacation, doubtless to keep up their ac- quaintance with their excellent teachers, with whom they were favorites.   BILL HOLT COMMTS SACRILEGE!      109 It is to be remarked that these youths (boys no longer), who were intimate and confidential and truly loyal with each other, and who were always together,-I say it is remarkable that they never visited Scotenskopft in company.. What could it mean? It was probably mere accident that when Tom was ready, Alf had a sick headache; and when Alf was ready, Tom had an engage- ment with his father, the Doctor. Clara Dighy was now thirteen. She was nearly full- grown, and-I need add nothing more at present. I was remarking that Tom was on a visit to Scotens- kopft. It was on this occasion that Bill Holt partially opened his plans to his old schoolmate, in the following dialogue: Bill. I want you to help me get a place in New York. Tom. Certainly; I will do my best. What is more, I will speak to father. Bill. What do you think I am after? Tom. I am sure I can't tell. Bill. I want a situation in Abbott's soap and candle establishment. Tom. Why, Bill, what possesses you? Bill (fiercely). I will tell you, Tom: to make money. Tom. And how do you expect to make money that way? Bill. That's my secret. I tell you my object, and ask you to help me. You are the only living soul I would ask, if I starved to death. Tom. Nonsense, Bill I When will you get over talk- ing such stuff? '                   ^ * \ I   "O     TO-DAy: A ROMANCE. Bill. Not till I get even with some people. Tom. I think we can manage this easily enough. Mr. Abbott is one of my father's patients.           I Bill. You will try? Tom. Right away.   What sort of a place do you wish? Bill. I don't care a --. I only want to get inside the establishment. Tom was as good as his word. By dint of his impor- tunity, the Doctor was forced to set seriously to work; and the result was, word was sent to Bill that he could come as soon as he liked, on a trifling weekly stipend, hardly sufficient to give him food and lodging. It was the first time, in the boy's recollection, that he ever felt a sensation of joy. Here was freedom at last. He had now to satisfy his mother. It was not very difficult. He was old enough to earn his living; and it was time  to begin. This was undeniable. He would go often to see her. Before long she could come  to New York, and keep house for him. How delightful! Bill had acquired an excellent English education. Following his tastes, he had, the last year, devoted himn- self to chemistry. It delighted the heart of Mr. Petten- gill to have a pupil so thoroughly intent on study. The day of his deliverance had come. It was a  pleasant morning, about the middle of May, that Bill, with knapsack thrown over his shoulders, started for New York. His mother watched him from  the window till he turned the corner. She had not spoken a word of caution   BILL HOLT COMMTS SACRILEGE!        1" or advice to him, about the city-life to which he was going. She knew perfectly well it was unnecessary. She did desire to allude to his religious feelings; but she was afraid. Something in Bill's manner repelled her. But as she threw her arms around him, sihe whispered, "May the Holy Spirit be your comforter!" Bill started as if something had stung :him. Kissing his mother hastily, he left the house. It would have been easy enough for him to take the train; the railway was now finished; by which he could reach town in three quarters of an hour. His mood, how- ever, was to walk.  He wanted four or five hours' sharp exercise to settle his feelings and bring his thoughts into another channel. He pursued his way slowly toward the main road. Before reaching it, he turned into a street which ran parallel with it, and walked on till he came opposite the church of the Apostolic Succession. A church-spire means a great many things. I always say that to myself when I see one. In the city it means embellishment, rivalry, social gath- erings, flirtations, marriages, wedding-parties, deaths, and burials. It means ambition for distinction for superior holiness, for prominence in church-government, for admira- tion and applause. It means, moreover, that we are selfish and corrupt in our daily practice; but there is something, once a-week, we can point to as an offset. In the country the church-spire has fewer of these significations. OD  the frontier none of them. There it   112     TO-DAY: A IROANC!E. means dependence on God and the necessity to acknowl- edge it. But everywhere; in town, country, and wilderness; a church-spire is a confession that there is anxiety about what will come hereafter. Hezeinabove I except the humble; lowly ill spirit, I mean; to whom the church-spire is an assuring token of God and His presence. Bill Holt came opposite the church of the Apostolic Succession. Then he stopped. First he took a deliberate surey  and own the road. There was no one in sight. He satisfied himself of that. Clenching his hand, he shook his slender fist at the edifice with a concentrated venom. What did Bill Holt mean?  I do not suppose he exactly knew himself. Whatever. it was, he lacked, it would appear, the courage to be seen in the act. So much, at least, remained of the old veneration. It might have been an outlet to all the accumulated bitterness of his past year but why direct his spite to the church-buildin   bably he associated it with his mother's enemy and persecutor, as he considered him; the Rev. Croton Ellsworth. After this ebullition, and quite satisfied there was no witness, Bill proceeded with a lighter step, and, reaching the highway, soon put himself en route for the metropolis. The Rev. Croton Ellsworth saw him all the while: saw him coming down the road: saw him stop and look care- fully about him: saw him shake his puny fist at holy church: saw all this, with some -such satisfaction as a   BILL HOLT COIMMTS SACRILEGE!      113 police-detective feels when, to his joy, he discovers that the suspected wretch he has so long been watching turns out really to be the criminal he seeks. The next Sabbath the story of Bill Holt was narrated to the Sunday-school children, with embellishments. The clergyman began by giving an account of " the boy's mother," and " her backsliding." In natural consequence followed, said the reverend gentleman, the dreadful apos- tasy of her child, ending in bold and impious sacrilege. The arm thus raised against the church could never prosper. It would wither and shrivel in token of God's wrath. Hlow the children trembled! How glad they were that they were not Bill Holt or Bill Holt's mother! I think there were some tender hearts who felt sorry for Bill. The Rev. Croton Ellsworth felt only a stern, grim joy! The next week poor Mrs. Holt heard of it. I do not know how. It came, like all evil tidings, on the wings of the wind. She was so distressed and shocked, she thought of going at once to inquire of the clergyman if the story could be true. She was dissuaded by Miss Pettengill, who called on her the same day, and who insisted on taking such a charitable view of the whole affair, even if it were true, that the widow felt quite relieved. Mehitabel Pet- tengill proved, indeed, an angel of mercy on this occasion. Mrs. Holt 'Was becoming morbid on the subject, and the clear, humanizing view which the schoolmistress took of "a boy's freak " was very consoling to her. It was no boy's freak, nevertheless.   "4     TO-DAY: A ROMANCE. Neither was it what the Rev. Croton Ellsworth repre- sented it to be. Bill Holt reached New York by the Eighth Avenue early in the afternoon, his nerves braced, his spirits, for the time, buoyant, his purpose fixed. He walked along till he came to Twenty-third street, into which he turned, when the beauty of the city, as he approached Madison Square, burst on him. He did not feel solitary or bewildered. Neither the magnificence of the scene nor the crowd of persons and equipages op- pressed him. He raised himself erect, and gazed confi- dently around, exclaiming aloud, "I a one of them "   THE METR:OPOLIS.         115 CHAPTER XI THE  METROPOLIS. THE metropolis devours every thing. Its maw is never satisfied. It cries always, "Give." It exhausts the market for provisions, for fabrics, for human beings. It uses, it consumes. It wears out men as it does the omnibus horses. Its wealth demands first what is difficult, then what is extraordinary, fabulous, impossible. Its want strains to supply these, laboring by day and by night. B1y-and-by Want takes a stumble and falls. It cannot supply any more; it begs.  Possibly it teals, obs, murders, or commits suicide. Wealth purses its brow. "What a state society is in! Such an increase of crime  The police is very inefficient!  Want does not always commit violence, it cannot always beg. It sickens, and amiably consents to starve without resisting. Wealth hears of it, and says, "Lo are there not poor- houses and hospitals and beneficiary establishments which I have raised up? Why does not Want go thither?" Then Wealth proceeds to the church, and, kneeling on a soft cushion, prays for Want, prays earnestly. Prays that God, the All-wise, the All-merciful, will remember the poor and the afficted, and comfort them in their distress.   "6     TO-DAY: A ROMANCE. Wealth, having performed this duty, steps forth from God's presence into its carriage, and rolls home to dine. Sometimes in the lesson of the day a startling sentence  is read. Startling, notwithstanding the mellifluous tone with which the preacher endeavors to soften it. "It is easier for a camel to go through the eye of a needle, than for a rich man to enter into the kingdom of God." Wealth listens, and changes position uncomfortably. "My dear hearers, you must understand by this not literally a rich man, but the man who trusts in riches." "Ah!" says Wealth; " surely, I do not put my trust in riches." "Go and sell that thou hast, and give to the poor."  Wealth turns pale. The preacher comes to his relief.  "This was simply to test the young man's sincerity. Quite inapplicable to the present state of society." "Even so," quoth Wealth, and nods an approving assent. But why do the poor cling to the metropolis? Because  of its companionship. There they cluster together and hold fast to each other in one great fellowship. They sympathize with, they aid, one another. Watch a decrepit beggar. Who puts pennies in his hat? Children and poor people. Of such is the kingdom of Heaven. "I am one of them!" exclaimed Bill Holt, standing in the full sweep of the maelstrom. Which one?   TIE METROPBOLIS..        " Bill di not care hichi not think any thing about it, exept that che wasin the metropolis to try his muscle, strength, and ill, with the rest. e alked two miles town Broadway, then turned to the left, inthe direction of the ast river, and kept on till he reached the large of the East river,      I    Abt    soap and candle establishment of Josiah Abbott. ie entered, ana, after waiting some time, was assigned to duty. Here we will for the present leave him. Meanhile the wiow  olt, alone in her humble cot- tage, prays morning and night, often at noonday, beseech- ingly to God to protect and bless and save her boy.  ,  t   "8     TO-DAY: A ROMANTCE. CHAPTER XII. SCHOOL DAYS.  WE have spoken of the changes in the "Select School." About the time Tom and Alf left for Round Hill, Harry Ellsworth and Charley Graves were sent to  Poughkeepsie, to be perfected in what is there called a a practical commercial education;" as if young men did   i not get at the practice of trade quick enough and sharp enough without the creation of schools to teach it. The same year was a prosperous one for Randall the railroad contractor; so prosperous, that he bought a hand. some house in town and furnished it in a very stylish manner. Virginia was sent to Madame Rosa Posa St. Gauden's "Boarding and Day School for Young Ladies," where she managed to unlearn all she had previously gained, or at least to have it so confused by new modes, that it became of little value to her. Here Virginia "( took French," and acquired a vicious pronunciation of that tongue from the "best of masters," who was a Dutchman from the Stras- bourg side of the Rhine, and who taught French at Ma- dame Rosa Posa St. Gauden's, and insufferably bad Ger- man at the establishment of Madame Della Parepa Prang. With Madame Rosa Posa St. Gauden he was Parisian; with Madame Della Parepa Pang, " very high Prusse."   SCHOOL-DA YS.  Although Clara Dighy continued at the "Select Although Clara Dlighy    Ppttmam had insti- School," pursuing the course Miss Pettingill had insti- tuted for her, she was not confined to her home at Sco- tenskopft, but in the vacations made visits to her young friends in town and elsewhere, whose acquaintance she formed at school She also became acquainted with Mrs. Ferris, who was moving in the 6" very first circles," her husband by his excellent business management having made money enough to think of becoming a "' banker." I do not believe Clara ever visited her when Alf was at home on vacation, but she had become quite intimate with Emily Ferris, Alf's cousin, whom we presented to the reader in an earlier chapter of this history, and who, it may be recollected, decidedly favored Tom Castleton's view about the trip to the steamship. Clara and Emily were as unlike each other as any two girls can be; and this is why they were such good friends. It is generally the case, you know. Mrs. Adolphus Drinker, Alf's sister, now goes a good deal into polite life. Those Bloomingdale lots, the mort- gage on which the kind-hearted Drinker purchased, and which were not at that time worth the incumbrance, turned out a prize. A righteous return for his disinter- ested act. Drinker realized at the top of the market, and, like a sensible broker, settled the proceeds on his wife, securing to her at least a competence. Tom Castleton winced a good deal to find Clara be- coming so intimate with Alf's relations. He tried to invent a way for having Clara visit his mother, but no natural expedient presented. How he wished he had a   120     TO-DAY: A ROMANCE. sister, a young aunt, or even a second or third cousin to  whose house Clara might go. He had to bear with his  unlucky situation, but tried his best to make up for it when he and Clara met, by the most extraordinary devo- tion which a youngster could be capable of. I am inclined to think he overdid the matter, but I will not venture a positive judgment.  If we pay a visit to the Round Hill Academy we shall fnd things moving very pleasantly. Tom and Alf are nearly through the preparatory course. They have mastered Virgil and Sallust, and the orations of Cicero, and are familiar with the best extracts from the Greek prose writers and poets. They have already a very thorough English education. A happy life  they have led. Close friends, apparently, more attentive than brothers. At least, much more intimate. It is true, there is one thing which separates them absolutely. There is the more reality in this, because it is never alluded to nor even acknowledged. When Tom and Alf came to Round Hill, their joint at- tentions to " Miss Dighy" ceased. Yes, they call her Miss Dighy now. Only think of it. Our little Clara. Thirteen years old, and no longer "Clara " to these young gentlemen. She, nearly full-grown, quite understood the state of affairs. Nothing could be more judicious than her bearing toward the two. Every word, every look of hers was watched for and cherished by them both, forever to be remembered. For- ever; that is the word "which hath been and must be;" forever.   a C; H VL1 - D A. X. *.    A  Now nothing of this was on the surface. Tom and Alf knew very well what was in the other's heart; what was seething and burning there, ready to burst. Doubt, jealousy, pangs not of unrequited, but uncertain love. Why need I describe these, when you yourself, reader, know by experience all about them? I repeat, notwithstanding this, Tom and Alf were true and loyal friends, and very happy in their intimacy. Tom was the more dreamy, the more sentimental and romantic. Alf never lost the touch of worldly wisdom which his father's discourse, when quite small, had pro- duced. Tom could never acquire it, and he looked on Alf's superior knowledge in this regard as something mar- vellous. As Tom really had no occasion to employ this world's craft, Alf for the time had no practical advantage, but every body said that Alf was the lad to work his way through life, and that Tom would not be up to its rough- and-tumble. 6   "12    TO-DAY: A RO     CE CHAPTER XIII. H0W' TITE ELCTOR OF THlE CIunci O' T:i APOSTOLIC SUCCESSION BECAE IRECTOR OF  TH CRC OF TLE MRACULOUS PRESENCE.           O   TH Trn: Rev. Croton Ellsworth was antly in his charge.       gett i on triumph. The sanctity of this clerical gentleman, as exhibited in the strictest attention to forms and ceremonies, attracted the notice of the faithful, far and nea. The Church of the Apostolic Succession was pointed to as a "model," and Scotenskopft became a ecca on a small scale; that is, in the summer season; for tosea      t church people who claim to be of greater antiquity than the Roman Catholics themseleso      admied th happy power of adaptability of the Reverend Croton in "restoring , arious attractive forms to the dare ly ir eas-ot  ing church ceremonies. Meantime it was avowed; but I think this was by some malicious geople, no true friends of that gentleman; that arrangems were actually perfected for a confessional, attendance on which was by no means  enjoined," but which was "recommended , to young people as a ' means of grace." Further, these same malicious people declared the Reverend Croton actually waited on stated days in ly waited on stated days in   RECTOR OF A NEW    CHURCH.     123 his charming little "study," to receive "voluntary con- fessions." I hesitate to second these statements, since I am not absolutely certain they are authentic. One very important improvement he certainly did effect. We all know that in repeating what is called the Apostles' Creed," it is customary to bow reverently at the mention of the first two persons of the Trinity. It became observable that the young ladies of this church, instead of a simple inclination, substituted a most pro- found and graceful courtesy, precisely similar to the one used in commencing the fascinating dance known as the "Lancers." The young men followed suit, so that a stranger, entering at the particular moment, might reason- ably doubt the precise character of the place. The church music was superb. The finest airs from "Africaine, Crisping, The Barber, Traviata, Trovatore, and other favorite operas were introduced, after being properly " adapted." It was indeed delightful to attend the ministration at Scotenskopft. The service was so charmingly impressive, and the sermon was so short. The tasteful edifice was crowded to repletion those lovely, balmy, summer days. Fascinating young women with their handsome beaux dressed in the extreme of fashion, beautiful equipages admirably appointed, together with the numerous exquisite but indescribable surround- ings, shed over the Sabbath scenes an air of elegant and refined luxury. The Miss Marlinspikes, ancient though they had now   w     TO-^DAY: A R O MAX  C E.  become, were in their glory. As for the Reverend Croton, what did he not feel He surveyed the whole within and without with a sense of the most complacent satisfaction. His cup was full, and ready to overflow. All things mundane must have an end. "Mortal's chief foe," says the great German, "is security." In the midst of the victories of the Rev. Croton Ells- worth, when, indeed, there seemed no possibility of any check to his triumphant career, a speck appeared on the horizon--a mere speck, scarcely indeed so much as a speck, but it was the cause of his quitting Scotenskopft! "A fly sent on God's errand," says an old divine, " can do the work of deatli as well as the executione" Great results come proverbially from causes which appear dimin- utive. So it was that a very insignificant tinker served to turn the destinies of the Reverend Croton. Barnabas Low was a native of Yonkers. He was apprenticed to a tinsmith, who was also a worker in sheet- iron, till he was one-and-twenty, when, to satisfy his craving for adventure, he turned sailor. In this capacity he led a reckless devil-may-care life for many years, in which he roved the watery world many times over. At the age of forty Barnabas began to tire of his wandering, unsettled life, especially after visiting his native town one summer, where he found that an old sweetheart, of whom, when apprentice to the tinsmith, he was very fond, still remained single and constant to her first love. Barnabas took a resolution. He knocked ,off going to sea, was spliced to his old flame, and commenced ^^^^^^    RECTOR OF A NEW CHURCH.       125 industriously the trade of a tinker, which his former ap- prenticeship perfectly qualified him for undertaking. On a narrow lane, at the extremity of the parsonage grounds, which covered nearly three acres, was a decayed old building, of revolutionary date. It was separated from the parsonage by a thick copse, so that its dilapi- dated appearance was not unpleasantly visible to the in- mates of the former. Barnabas Low obtained permission to occupy this spot, and moved in with his wife, a scanty supply of furniture, and his tools of trade. He soon found plenty to do, in mending the leaky pots and kettles and saucepans of the neighborhood. He and his wife were a cheerful, happy couple, and industrious withal. Since the Church of the Apostolic Succession was so near, they thought they could not do better than attend it. They used to go, accordingly, and 'were assigned seats at the end of the left gallery, in a little place fenced off for a colored family and a few very poor people. I do not know of my own knowledge that Barnabas Low got from the rectory any jobs in his line. I have no doubt he did, however, but it does not distinctly appear that it brought him ever in personal contact with the rector. One pleasant afternoon, the latter part of September; it was about sunset; the Reverend Croton Ellsworth was standing in the open air, leaning against the neat paling which surrounded his grounds. He was enjoying the dolce far niente of his situation to the fullest degree. He had just made up his mind to   126     TO-DAY: A ROMANCE. preach a couple of old sermons the following Sunday, and the idea gave an additional expression of freedom from all earthly care to the reverend gentleman's features. The soft haze of a September day had, too, its tranquilizing effect. I wish I could present him to you in tableau just as he stood with his surroundings. Two very pretty yolung women had been conversing on the piazza with Mrs. Ellsworth, and now advanced to pass through the gate. Some very pleasant words were exchanged, while the young neophytes looked adoration in the face of their confessor as they tripped out. Croton Ellsworth followed them with dreamy eyes. His soul began to glow with complacency. He glanced around his well-kept grounds. He surveyed the handsome church edifice. "Is not this great Babylon that I have built?-" he felt to himself. It was the supreme moment unalloyed--the last he ever experienced at Scotenskopft! Can you tell me where hereabouts Barnabas Low is anchored?" Croton Ellsworth turned, and saw standing before him a large, rough-looking man,-with very broad shoulders, a grisly beard, and thick gray hair, which curled closely in his neck. He was dressed in sailors' garb, iand wore a tarpaulin on his head. Croton was startled by this sudden apparition, but he was not easily thrown off his guard. He scrutinized the speaker closely, and could discover nothing dangerous in his countenance, which was, all things considered, an open one. He ventured, therefore, to put on all his dignity.   *i  RECTOI  OF A  EW  C"UrCH.     127 He looked majestically in the man's face, and sid- ,What?a" "I was asking  the bearings of Barnabas iow, who they tell me, is moored a little to leeward of this, but I am blessed if it is in sight on this tack. Wht course shall Il ?" he cntnued, seeing the other  id not speak. "p I can give you no information, my man. I know no suc person," responuded the Revereand Croton Elsworth, Atiff yo apiest?" d anded the sailor, bluntly. "And you undertake to show peop   the road to that Croton felt alarmed. The man meantime did not stir. "You had better pass on," said Croton. "W Why?" asked the sailor. "Because it is not agreeable to me for you to stay any longer on my premises."           s a ter- "Your premises  The highway is as ree as  course. You must be a d-d fool " "Man!" exolaimed Croton, with solemn emphasis, "if you do not leave here instantly, I will have you re- moved."                      i "Have  me removed!" said the other, laughing, as if "Have met reoved! eaia   iaea. i4Prawho struck with the ridiculousness of the idea. "Pray, who ci to do it? Suppose, noW," he added, coming up still closer to the fence, I say, s se I should make up my   128     TO-DAY: A ROMANCE. mind to go in and see your wife and children, who is to prevent me?" Croton was now thoroughly alarmed. He cast his eyes up the street. He saw two men walking toward him. They were his parishioners. Here was relief almost immediate. The sailor saw him looking, and seemed to understand what was passing in his mind. "Come, now," he said, "you don't answer?" "I will answer you presently," returned Croton, growing bolder. "So you think I had better not go in?" continued the sailor, in a tantalizing tone. "Move on, instantly, or I put you in custody." The two men were getting near. "Why, don't you know me, Crote? By --, I don't believe the fellow is shamming, after all. You didn't know Reub, that's a fact." Croton Ellsworth turned pale. For once he exhibited this show of emotion. What could it be? The two persons came up and passed unheeded. He seized on the paling for support. The sailor stood looking at him with an expression of intense contempt. "Shall I go in?" he asked. "No, Reuben, no. I can't have you come in. The house is full-friends from New York. Besides, my wife doesn't know-doesn't know----" "That you have such a rough customer for a brother, eh, whom you are ashamed to own. Well, Crote, it's like you. I suppose you are' afraid I'll tell about your lark   129 yRCTOR oF A   EW C  HURC. with Sall Jenkens--a d-d shame it was, too. Crote," he continued,mith a knowing wink, "you are the same when those pretty girls came out." ," Reuben, how can you goon so?  Do you never think of God, and judgment, and eternity " "Don't come your cant over me. Anything butthat. you are,and always willbe." "You are a bold blasphemer.   " What do you care what I am? Just drop that sort i of thing, and tell me where I can find my shipmate. "I will inquire of the servant; stay ere yo are till I return."5e Croton Ellsworth came speedily back with the desired information.  "Croton," said the sailor, in a les rude tone than he had previously usea, "Croton, how is mother?" "She is well, uI presume," said the clergyman, hesi- tatingly Dot YOU "  , You presume!" exclaimed his brother. "Don'you know? When did you hear from her? "It is some considerable time." "When?" "I think last Spring." "Don't you help her any?" "I do all I can afford to--" "Which is devilish small rations, rI'U be bound," inter "Whchi dv6is    130     TO-DAY: A ROMANCE. rupted Reuben. "Confess, Crote, you have not sent her a stiver for six months." The other was silent. "Nor for a year." "You are mistaken,"' said Croton Ellsworth, promptly. "You see, Crote, I am a reprobate-a swearing, drink- ing, ungodly reprobate. You are a saint-one of the oily, unguentum kind. Now listen to me. When  shipped on my three years' cruise, I entered on the articles, 'three fourths of wages to be paid to the old woman.' The rest was enough for toggery and tobacco; as for grog, no use for it on board. Good-day. I'll call on you again some time, and see my sweet little nephews and nieces." He disappeared round the corner, and pursued his way along the lane, leaving the clergyman in a state of mind quite indescribable. "Who is that very rude-looking creature, that Croton talks so long with?" asked one of the Miss Marlinspikes of his wife. ' I am sure I cannot imagine." At this moment Croton entered. He looked pale and disurbed. The question was repeated. "Oh, only a sailor; a very interesting man; an ex- tremely interesting and instructive person. H-e has lately returned from the Sandwich Islands." We were wondering what could detain you so long, conversing with such a horrid-looking wretch," said the other Miss Marlinspike. "He swore at pa dreadfully," cried a little Ellsworth, who had been rolling his hoop in the vicinity.   RECTO  o:F XA NEW CUUC-.     131 "Oh, you are mistaken, my son." No, I am not I heard him say- "Hush, you are too small to u1derstand--- Here tea was announced. The sailor, meantime, walked slowly on, till he came opposite the dwelling of Barnabas Low. Here he stopped, and shouted three times at the top of his voice Ship ahoy ." so loud, indeed, that the clergyman, who heard it distinctly, feared that it would excite the attention of the Miss Marlinspikes to the strange conduct of the missionary sailor from the Sandwich Islands i The tinker was in the act of putting the finishing touch to a large kettle hich was undergoing important repairs, but on hearing the hail, he threw it aside and rushed to the door.                  ship i "Ship ahoy " he bellowed in return. What ship  that?" "An old messmate off a cruise," was the answer. Without more ceremony the two came together, and embraced heartily, sailor fashion. The wife was dis- patched to procure a bottle of whisky and something extra for supper. In short, it tool a good week of the tinker's earnings to furnish the night'sentertainment. The fellows made the greater noise, because they were so near the parsonage. Croton heard them and trembled, lest later in the night they might, or at least his brother might, come reeling to his house and demand admittance. No jolly tars ever had a jollier time. Barnabas Low's wife went off to bed early, and left them to their folic.   TO-DAY: A ROMANCE. She was no shrew, and Barnabas was a good husband in the main. So she kept her temper, resolving to indulge him. The revel at last came to an end. Reuben turned in, or rather on, the spare bed, with orders to the imaginary watch on deck to call him at eight bells (four o'clock). I suppose it was the force of habit which made him turn  out at that hour. It is a fact, however, that he did so. After having recourse to the pump for an extra ablu- tion, he left the house, and, laying his course southward, went on his way. Croton Ellsworth did not sleep a wink that night. He was troubled in spirit. He could hear the noise of the carouse, and dreaded lest-he knew not what. Why was the reverend gentleman so discomforted? It was because he had in his nature nothing genuine. His life was a cheat, and he feared any thing which could raise a question about it. It was not that he had a rough sailor for a brother, or a drunken sailor, it may be; it was what that sailor knew about him, and what he might tell. Before Reuben he was "Crote," nothing but " Crote." Reuben despised him, and did not attempt to conceal it. If he should take up his quarters with the tinker! What a scandal! What could be done? Sometimes he thought. he would denounce Reuben as an impostor, but he dread- ed the force of his sarcasm, and he dreaded the truth. "I shall never enjoy another moment here," he said, turning uneasily in bed. It was at last daylight. Croton rose, and paced up and down the room. He looked from the window. A   RECTOR OF A NE iW CHUcCH.      1B man was walking past. He recognized him. "lHe is going to quit the place, I do believe," exclaimed Croton. It was a temporary relief, only temporary. He might come back any day. All this time the reprobate, as his brother called him, was on his way to see the " old woman," his mother, quite unconscious of the disturbance he had created in the breast of the divine. The fact is, the encounter was by mere chance. He was told that Barnabas Low lived next to the parsonage, and inquiring there, he had run against Croton. There was not the least danger of his returning to annoy him. He felt only contempt for him, which would lead him really to give Crote as wide a berth as possible. The latter did not know this. He felt there was no longer any peace for him at Scotenskopft. He determined oti seizing the first favorable opportunity to remove from the place to New York. In New York policemen were abundant, and lock-ups close at hand. Circumstances favored our clerical hero. A schism had occurred in one of the largest and most important churches in the city. The rector, a man of elevated char- acter and strong will, was entirely opposed to what he called the extravagances which had begun to be intro- duced, and which savored, as he maintained, of a return to the forms of the Church of Rome, while he himself was striving to diminish them, and to introduce a greater liberality in the church. It would seem his zeal carried him too far. He was on one occasion so imprudent as to in some way recognize a   I' -DAY:  A ROMA0NTCE. Methodist clergyman as a brother in Christ, a co-worker in the field of their common Master, and treat him accord- ingly. Then what an uproar! What a hubbub! You would have thought the world was coming to an end. The whole church was in jeopardy. The refractory rector must be dealt With. To recognize one on whom conse- crated hands had not been laid!             ! The Reverend Croton Ellsworth espoused with zeal the cause of High Church. So great was his holy fervor in this regard, that he soon became the leader of the move- ment against the refractory rector. He preached, he labored, he thundered; he wrote, he printed, he pub- lished. His admirers called him the new Apostle of the faithful! I need not go further in the story. The newspapers were full of it, and you all read them. The result was, the rector's church was divided. The high superfine ex- cruciating church men and church women quitted the old sanctuary, and going up above Fortieth street, built a mag'nificent edifice; and within six months after the advent of the sailor to Scotenskopft, his reverend brother was called to its charge. The church was named by him, "The Church of the Miraculous Presence," in token, as he said, of the manifest and visible interposition of Providence in his behalf, when he was greatly cast down and discomfited. It is now that the career of the Reverend Croton Ells- worth really opens. He soon discovered that his sojourn at Scotenskopft was merely his novitiate. He wondered '.,I   Z . . . L V- - - - -  how it could have so long contented him. In the me- tropolis he found every appliance suitable to his hand for advancing his schemes for the prosperity of his charge. Prosperity! What the Church of the Apostolic Succession was in a small way, the Church of the Miraculous Presence became on a large, extended, and amplified scale. Wealth, beauty, fashion, parade, dress, ostentation, in short, every thing intensified that the round earth affords to feed human vanity and to help put off all thought of a something after, were clustered in and around the conse- crated walls of this new temple. He had no fear of Reuben now. Let him once appear! The police would do their duty, and the impostor be sent up without ceremony. And his mother? / .   CHAPTER   XIVr GREAT CHANGES WHEN LEAST EXPECTED. THE time came at last for Tom and Alf to quit the Academy. They were to enjoy a four weeks' vacation, and then enter college. Dr. Castleton was a graduate of Dartmouth; old Dartmouth, as her loving sons call her; and Tom was, of course, to go there. M. Ferris, who was Alf's guardian, was glad to take the Doctor's sugges- tion; and it had long been decided that the young fellows were not to be separated when they should leave school. The auspicious day'arrived! It was the sixth of Sep- tember. Tom never forgot the date. Every preparation had been made, and at eight o'clock in the morning the two entered the train which, passing New Haven, takes its course up the valley of the Connecticut river; the love- liest valley, I think, in the world; certainly the loveliest I ever beheld. It was the happiest day of their lives. Youth, health intellectual appreciation, without any care, wihout any gloom of the Past, all hopefulness, not one single fore- boding. And down deep in the heart of each was cherished the ,dea of Clara Dighy; secretly and most sacredly cher- shed, creating a sentiment which softens the rough edges *- .   of rude and boisterous youth, softens without repressing or impairing its incipient manhood. It was sunset before the train reached the Dartmouth Station. What a commotion'! A hundred young fellows, at least, poured from the cars, and put every species of rolling craft in requisition for conveying trunks and pack- ages and luggage of all descriptions into the town. What a scene in itself! How much at home, and how independent and assuming the students appeared! The Freshmen of the previous year, returned as Sophomores, looked with a lofty and complacent air on the trembling candidates for admission to the class they had just left. Our two friends kept together, and resisted the sug- gestion made by a wicked Soph, to follow him, as he would, by his interest with one of the professors, whom he knew particularly well, have them examined that very evening, and thus save them a day's unhappy suspense. We who are in the secret know that the Soph wanted to "rig" an examination with pseudo professors, and so "roast" these boys that they would be ready to depart for home in disgust the very next morning. The next day Tom and Alf rose early, and, to prevent mistakes of any kind, called on the President for informa- tion, and ascertained the exact course to pursue. By three o'clock of the same day they had been examined and had passed triumphantly from Pcenes into actual Freshmen. They had now to secure a room and a boarding-place. Alf took the lead. After a good deal of careful inquiry, a furnished room was selected, which faced the south and commanded a magnificent view of Ascutney Mountain. -.....'..   .,-.-.xc.--::. :- - :: rr gllblel L8.    If they preferred, they could board in the house. This they concluded to do, at least for the first term. Having settled themselves to their satisfaction, they walked about the grounds, watching the movements of the students and looking through the College buildings Then they went over to the Station to see the train come in and fresh students come from it. having passed muster themselves, they could in their turn regard the movements of the newcomers with composure. They submitted to be electioneered for the secret societies by a bland and mildly dignified Senior, who accosted them on their way back with entire respect and consideration. It ended in Tom and Alf being asked to take some oysters and ice-cream, which invitation they saw no reason to decline, especially as the Senior claimed to have a wish to explain the merits of each Society, while he frankly admitted he hoped ultimately to induce them to join his own. Our New York lads rose from the repast without absolutely committing themselves, promising, however, to see their new friend the following day. They retired to rest contented. They had passed a good examination, and were comfortably settled. The next morning the college-bell would ring for prayers; and at eleven o'clock the class would meet in the recitation room for the first time. The day dawned brightly. The students mustered in the chapel in full force. at a ascination to Tom and Alf!  ow. different from a school! It could not be later than ten. The two were intheir room overhauling their books and putting things in order. /:   There was a sharp knock at the door. It was opened before a response could be given. "Alfred Du Barry!" exclaimed the messenger in a quick tone. "All right," said Alf. A sealed envelope was delivered to him, and the man departed. The two looked at each other in alarm. "It is a telegram," said Tom. Alf said nothing. "Why don't you open it?" asked Tom. Alf tore off the envelope, looked a moment at the dispatch, and turned deadly pale. "What is it?" gasped Tom. Alf handed him the paper. Return to .New York by first train. Important, not alarming.                 FERRIS. The two stood and looked at each other in blank dis- mny. "It is a sell, I do believe," exclaimed Alf, in a relieved tone. "I do not think so," returned Tom. "It would be too serious a joke for any one to undertake." "No more serious than the examination trick they tried on us," said Alf. "The quickest way to settle the question is to go to the telegraph office," suggested Tom; to which Alf assented, and they took their way a little distance up the street, and made inquiry at the proper place. ^  , -!   There was no mistake about it. The telegram was genuine. Slowly the friends retraced their steps. The bell rung for the first eleven o'clock meeting of the class; a meeting they had looked forward to with so much interest; but  the summons was unheeded. Once more in their room, the mysterious message was subjected to severe scrutiny, as if some explanation could be extracted from the paper. I pass over the comments, the surmises, the protracted conversation which began and ended in nothing. "You must go, Alf," said Tom; "that is all there is of it. You must go, and in half an hour. The sooner you go, the sooner you can be back. I will take good care of every thing till you return." Alf reluctantly assented to the wisdom of the advice, and taking a small bag in his hand, accompanied by his friend, started for the station. There was no time to lose. The train came thundering along the valley, and was at the stopping-place almost as soon as they. Not a word had been spoken on the way. Tom seized Alfs hand, and exclaimed, "Mind, now, what I say. You will be in New York to-night. Telegraph me the first thing to-morrow morning, and write me the same day." Positively," emphasized Alf, returning Tom's grasp as he jumped into the car. The train was off. Tom remained watching it, ex- changing signals with Alf, who leaned out of the window, waving his handkerchief, till it was lost sight of around a curve in the road. -------- -- I --   Tom did not knotw what to do. At length it occurred to him to go in the recitation room, late as it was, at least to take his seat and come out with the rest It would make matters less strange, and he accordingly did so. All eyes were turned on him as he entered, and it was quite a formidable affair to walk the length of the hall. He was very glad, however, that he did go in, and he made several acquaintances among his classmates. The morning came, the day wore gradually away; it was late in the afternoon-no telegram. Tom still later went to the office to inquire. None had arrived there for him. The next day came, and with it the New York mail of the preceding evening. No letter! What did it mean; what could it mean? A week went round, and not a word from Alf. Let- ters reached Tom from home, but no allusion was made to his return to New York. There are disappointments, apparently petty and im. important, which, when we are young, go straight to the heart, and produce in one way or another a lasting influ- ence. Here was one. I do not exaggerate in telling how much the apparent neglect of his most intimate friend touched Tom. It made him literally ill. He attempted during that unhappy week to pay proper attention to his studies. It was impossible. He had experienced his first doubt of friend- ship, and it sickened him of every thing. r --   ---,-.,-.,rii, T,,;;-;b;-7F "r17=77 7-n   . v -. - .  R O A 0ANCE. CHAPTER   XV. THE WILL. WHEN Tom is suffering in this manner, I return to Alf; or rather, going a little further back, I ill give an explanation of the telegram which has produced so much disturbance, and which has interrupted my history just in time perhaps to relieve it from the charge of dulness and platitude. In order to spring this little sensation-trap the more successfilly on the reader, I confess I purposely omitted to state, when giving an account of the Du Barry family, that old Du Barry had a sister two years older than him- self, with whom he quarrelled because she would not give him the charge of the little fortune; about ten thousand dollars; which her grandmother had specially bequeathed to her. This act of independence was the cause of sever- ing all communication between her and her brother's family. Time passed, and found the lady still single. She never married. A few years before this she had accompa- nied some friends across the Atlantic, who were going to educate their children abroad, and had taken up her abode with them, in a quiet town in South Germany, where  were some excellent schools, and where her small income    supported her with more comfort than at home, and where she died. The news of the decease of Miss Du Barry had reached New York several weeks previous to Alfs leaving for college. As he had scarcely ever seen his aunt, the in. telligence affected him but little. Now, however, there appeared an appendix, which was to affect him a great deal. Miss Du Barry left a will, which was executed in due form of law. A copy of this will had now arrived. It was sent to Mr. Ferris. As usual with documents of the kind, it was very verbose; but I will present the material part of it. After disposing of a few trifling legacies, the testatrix went into a rambling disquisition on the greater facilities for education in Germany than elsewhere, and on the superiority of the schools of that country over those of the' United States. Then came the expression of her earnest wish that her nephew, Alfred Du Barry, should become thoroughly educated and accomplished. "And to 'this end," continued the testatrix, " all the rest, residue, and remainder of my estate, real, personal, and mixed of every name and kind whatsoever, and wherever situate, I give, devise, and bequeath unto Alex- ander Sterritt, Esq., of the city, county, and State of New York, one of the United States of North America, Gen- tleman. "In TRUST, nevertheless, to safely invest the same, and to keep the same securely invested, and to pay over the net proceeds thereof, after deducting a reasonable corn-   --VDAY: A ROMANCE.  pensation for the execution of this trust, semi-annually, or oftener, if practicable, to my said nephew, Alfred Du Barry, of the said city of New York, son of my late brother, Henry R. S. T. Du Barry, late of said city of New York, Gentleman. "But, nevertheless, ONLY on the condition following, that is to say that the said Alfred Du Barry shall, within three weeks after receiving notice of this my last will and testament, leave the United States and proceed to Germany, in Europe, for the purpose of completing his education, and shall remain in Europe, with this intent, and for this purpose, for at least six years after his arrival there. "While I do not limit my said nephew to Germany alone, it is my advice and request that he shall spend the principal part of his time there, at such schools and uni- versities as he shall be advised are best, by competent persons, whom I hope he will consult. "But if my said nephew shall not accept and carry out the conditions aforesaid, by which only he is to receive any benefit under the trust hereby created in this my last will and testament, or if he shall at any time fail, or neglect to comply with or fulfil the conditions thereof, then, and in that case, I order the said Alexander Sterritt," &c., &c., &c. These and-so-folths represent several pages of foolscap, and provided for the division of the deceased's small estate among several charitable institutions of her own country, in the contingency aforesaid. If the terms of the will should be complied with by r              lI   her nephew, then, at the end of six years, the principal invested by the trustee was to be paid over to him for his benefit and behoof forever. Another clause provided for the payment of five hun- dred dollars for expenses of the voyage. The copy of the will reached New York the very morning Tom and Alf set out for Dartmouth. It pro- duced a great sensation in the households of Mr. Henry Ferris and Mr. Adolphus Drinker respectively; for Alf was a great favorite not only with his sister, but with his aunt; she had no boys of her own; and both were exceedingly stirred up on this occasion. And here came the first important difference of opinion between Mr. Ferris and his wife. She, good woman, had been in the habit of coinciding with her husband on all matters of serious import. But when, after reading the will aloud at the breakfast table, Mr. Ferris tossed it lightly aside with the exclamation of "Nonsense!" Irs. Ferris ventured to ask him what he meant. ' Just that, my dear," was the reply. "But what is it you call nonsense?" "This will." "On the contrary, I think it is any thing but nonsense. I think we ought to feel very happy on Alf's account." Mr. Ferris looked up as if surprised. "  You do not suppose I will consent to Alf's touching the money on those terms?" he said. Not consent? why, Henry, what can you mean?" exclaimed his wife. 7   "6     TO-DAY: A ROMANCE. "I mean that it Would be the ruin of the boy." "I do not at all agree with you. On the contrary, I think it will be the maklng of him." For once Ir. Ferris, amiable as he generally was, became angry. For once the forbearing and considerate Mrs. Ferris also got angry. "I shall see .what Maria says," she exclaimed. "You had better ask Drinker what he says," retorted Mr. Ferris. "If he is half the man I take him to be, he will speak out plain enough." "After all," retorted Mrs. Ferris, "it does not concern either of you. I really don't see why you undertake to meddle with the matter." "You did not see things in just that light a few days ," replied Mr.   ernris, when you and Maria were so anxious Alf should go to college." "Now, Mr. Ferris, I  consider such an allusion mean- spirited, and I will not endure it;" and she began, of course, to cry. He was really a kind, judicious, considerate man, and. like most husbands, he could not withstand his wife's tears. ("I am sorry, Eliza, if I have hurt your feelings," he said. "Let us drop the subject for to-day. Meantime, talk with Maria about it, and to-morrow we will discuss it calmly." Mrs. Ferris dried her tears, and having gained a certain advantage in the controversy, was quite content to accept the proposed terms. As a matter of course, Maria and she agreed exactly   THE WILL.          147 about what was best for Alf; namely, that it would be "perfectly splendid " for him to go abroad at his age and stay six years. "Just think of it," cried Maria, " he will be a man grown when he comes back, and so accomplished! How can your husband object?" "Men are so queer, sometimes," replied Mrs. Ferris. "Queer? do you think so? I am sure Adolphus is never queer," said Mrs. Drinker. "I will warrant you he will agree with us." She was right. When Mr. Drinkers opinion was asked, he answered in a careless, off-hand way, that he thought it a first-rate chance on no account to be lost. In fact, he would like somebody to give him the option of six years in Europe and all bills paid. He rather thought it would not take him long to, decide. Mr. Ferris made no effort to stay the tide of opinion after first stating to his wife fully his reasons for not wish- ing Alf to accept the provisions of the will. "After all," he said, "it is for him to decide. He shall return here at once. I will do my duty by telling him what I think. The rest of you can say what you like; then let him make up his mind." Alf was accordingly telegraphed to return, and you now are acquainted with the cause of the mysterious dispatch. When, on coming to the house late at night, Alf was informed by his aunt, who was sitting up to receive him, of the sudden turn in his fortunes, she was greatly chagrined to find he did not share her enthusiasm, but, on the con- trary, exhibited signs of dissatisfaction and disgust.   "8     TO-DAY: A ROMANCE. He had no desire to go to Europe. What would he do for six years away from home? He had entered college, and wished to go through. What would- Tom say, should, he quit him? He would not listen to it. His aunt bore with this patiently. The first shock over, she went on to exhibit the bright prospects - of the career now open to him; a career that every one would envy. She contrasted the extraordinary advantages of a German University over the petty colleges of our own land. She spoke of what was due to the memory of his deceased aunt, her own dear sister; and how wicked it would be to madly throw away even a small independence, and so on and so on, till poor Alf became quite bewildered. He retired, but not to rest. He did not sleep a wink that night. Youth began to assert its quality. The idea of foreign travel, romantic adventure, a new life, independ- ence, untried scenes, the ocean, the Alps, London, Paris, Munich, Vienna! On the other side, his school-days finished; his college course just begun;- Clara Dighy! Clara Dighy-that made his heart beat. Yet some- thing whispered to him, he would lose nothing in that quarter by going; something told him he would be the more interesting in her eyes for quitting his native land, quitting it suddenly! Alf rose early, nervous, excited, undecided. His uncle was the first one he saw. Mr. Ferris had always treated him as a blood-relation; indeed, as a son. He took the advantage of a half-hour before the family assembled, to give his opinion on the present crisis. His   THE WILL.           149 view was, that a six years' life abroad would unfit Alf for his career as an American, and that the petty fortune of ten thousand dollars acquired by such a sacrifice would do him more harm than good. It would destroy his self- reliance and impair his manhood. pMr. Ferris concluded by asking Alf to think seriously of what he said. The latter was profoundly affected. For the moment all his European pictures vanished. He would reject the terms of the will emphatically. Breakfast was announced. After it was disposed of, Mr. Ferris went to his counting-room, and left Alf to his aunt and sister who soon came in. By night his destiny was decided. He did not know it exactly. But the women, having made up their minds that he should go, took measures accordingly. Mr. Ferris had given his advice and left Alf to decide without further in- terference on his part, so they had a clear field to them- selves. It was not till a week had passed, however, that Alf had the courage to announce to his uncle that he had de- cided to accept the bequest and leave the country. That gentleman heard the decision with considerable emotion. "I am very sorry, Alf." It was all he said, and the subject was dropped. There was no time to be lost. Should Alf go himself, and take leave of his friend, or should he, as his aunt sug- gested, write Tom to send back his luggage, and save a two days' journey? He would go. Nothing should prevent it. On this point he was firm.   150     TO-DAY: A ROMANCE. CHAPTER XVI. SEPARATION. EIGHT days had passed. Tom was becoming tolerably familiar with the college routine. He studied his lessons carefully. He came and went like the rest. But it was mechanical only.  He was stupefied. All the time in a maze. He could rouse himself to no real interest in any thing whatever. He had at last written to Alf a single word, taking it for granted, as a salvo to his pride, that Alf's supposed communication to him had miscarried. No answer came. Now it happened that every time Tom passed into his room, his eyes fell on Alf's large trunk, which stood exact- ly opposite the door as he opened it. Whenever he saw the trunk  he took hope. It was a link between him and his companion. In fact, he had come to look on it as a friend; a room-mate; it preserved him from entire loneliness. Eight days had passed, when, returning at noon from his recitation, Tom went to his room as usual. He opened the door. No trunk was there! He stood utterly dumbfounded. Robinson Crusoe on his desert island could not have been more amazed to see   SEPARATION.          151 the print of a man's foot in the sand, than was Tom to note the absence of this friendly token. He was so taken aback that he did not stir a step, but remained stock still, gazing on the vacant place. At length he came in the room. Alf was seated at the little table on the left. He was leaning on his elbows, his chin supported in his two hands, looking intently at Tom. The latter rushed toward him and seized him by the shoulders, the hands, around the waist, gave him two or three whirls. The gsEene was decidedly tumultuous. In the midst of it Tom stopped short. "What has been the matter? why did you not tele- graph, write, send some sort of word? What is the matter?" continued he, seeing Alf made no reply. "Tom," said Alf, mournfully, "  Tom, I am going to leave you."' "To leave me. You are joking." "No. Sit down, and I will tell you all about it." And he did tell him. "Now you see why I could neither telegraph nor write. What could I say?" Few things that can happen are so difficult to bear as uncertainty and suspense. Tom's mind was relieved, though the intelligence Alf brought was sad enough for him. I will not go further into particulars. They spent the day in company, and talked every minute all night. Plans were formed adapted to the new state of things. Corre- spondence weekly. A full and elaborate account of what each was doing. A particular and minute history indeed of their daily life.   152     TO-DAY: A ROMANCE. So interested were they in this new idea, that it quite took from the pain of separation. In the morning, Tom set cheerfully to work to help his friend away. It did not take long. The train came at the appointed moment, and Alf was off. There are epochs in the life of every human being when, by some unlooked-for incident, often minute and in- significant, a new direction is given, and a new destiny fixed for it. We are not always, indeed, we are not gen- erally at the time, aware of it. It comes without observa- tion, but it is in consequence none the less potent. It is like the changing of one of the small switches which you see on a line of railway, and by which your course is turned from one point of the compass quite to another. Such an epoch had now arrived for both Tom and Alf. Possibly as much for Tom as for his friend. These young fellows parted like lovers, but separation is always harder for the one who remains. Departure brings with it new objects, producing a new set of ideas, new wishes, new hopes. All these for Alf. Tom's college-life was also new, a great change from his school-days. He could not indeed reproduce the enthusiasm of the first day when Alf and he escaped the trick of the Soph, and took oysters and ice-cream with the Senior, and passed a tri- umphant examination. Never mind; youth is easily comforted. By the time Tom had received Alf's letter, written on board the steamer, and sent back by the pilot, he had got acquainted with his class, and was pleasantly settled.   SEPARATION.          153 Alf had one more visit to make. It was to Scotens- kopft. To run up and back was a very short affair. But the idea made his heart beat loudly. His greeting and his adieu to Mr. and Miss Pettengill were made duly. He asked for Clara. She was out taking a walk. Alf knew her favorite ground in the early autumn. He was not mistaken. He came suddenly on her as she was gathering some rich-colored maple-leaves. So intent was she on her employment, that she was not aware of his approach till he called her by name. She looked astonished, not frightened. "I thought you were in college," she said. "I am not going to college, I am going to leave the country." "To leave the country!" "Yes. I am going to' Europe for six years." "A sudden decision." "Very.  My aunt is dead, and I follow her dying request." It was rather romantically put, considering Alf was a matter-of-fact fellow; but a fierce instinct led him to give an attractive form to the truth. Clara made no reply. "Miss Dighy," exclaimed Alf, seizing both her hands, f   "I want you to promise me one thing." "What is it?" said Clara, drawing away and redden- ing at such an unexpected demonstration. "I am to be absent six years," cried Alf, pathetically; t , .^   154     TO-DAY: A ROMANCE. "will you promise not to engage yourself to any one till my return?" Clara's eyes flashed. ': By what right do you claim to extort such a promise from me?" she said, very superbly. Alf was a youth, not a full-grown admirer. At his age love very often yields to temper. "Oh, by no right whatever; not even the shadow, of a right. Good-bye."  He turned and quitted the place grandly, quite in her own style. Clara wished to call him back, but she did not. Alf wished to go back, but he did not. Clara stood very still, looking after him till he was out of sight. She thought he might possibly turn and wave an adieu. She was mistaken. Alf gave no sign or token, and so they parted. Perhaps we may here get a clue to Clara's determined conduct in going to the steamship to meet Alf on his return, as recorded in the beginning of this history. Perhaps not. On Wednesday, the twenty-fifth of September, pre- cisely at twelve o'clock, Alf sailed from New York. The bustle of preparation kept his mind constantly occupied, even to the exclusion of any immediate thought of "Miss Dighv." Scarcely seventeen years old, he had suddenly become a man. 'He had certain legal forms to go through, certain business transactions to attend to. 'ie began to feel a consequence natural on the possession of what made him independent of others. The spur which before had stimu-   SEPARATION.          155 lated him was gone. There was no longer a necessity, as he looked into the future, for sharp, unflagging effort. He went on board the steamer to be absent at least six years, if he should live so long (so sudden are our revul- sions), without a regret at leaving. And in this way, in the very flower of his youth, he quitted his native country; a country rich in all that should tempt young life; in adventure, in labor, in the freshest enjoyment, and in the widest field for usefulness and renown.   V  Ft II   BOOK II   WE look upon our scholars (said the Overseer) as so many swimmers, who, in the element which threatened to swallow them, feel with aston- ishment that they are lighter, that it bears and carries them forward: and so it is with every thing that man undertakes. In all sorts of instruction, we separate whatever it is possible to sepa- rate; for by this means alone can the notion of importance and peculiar significance arise in the  young mind. Actual experience of itself, mingles and mixes all things together.-G-oeihe.   Rj             B O 0 BK     I I. }I              CCHAPTER   I. I     -        LIBERALLY EDUCATED." COLLEGE LIFE! IMPERIUM IN IMPERIO! A world of itself, with its inhabitants, its rulers, its unwritten laws, its statutes, customs, and traditions. A republic, turbulent at times, but rarely insubordinate. Easily agitated, but under discipline to its constituted authority, while reckless enough of every other. College life! At which persons of shallow intellect sneer. They tell you that young men can study in one place as well as in another. They deride the " dead lan- guages." What TO-DAY is wanted, they say, is practical knowledge. These people laugh at the sight of a diploma. They call it a " sheep-skin," intimating it is all a young man has to show for his college career. As if the value of a college course consists in mere study, whether of Greek and Latin or the modern tongues; of mathematics and philosophy, chemistry and physiology, or of literature and rhetoric. No! It is the life which is led for several successive years which makes the study so valuable. You exist in a world which goes on, literally regardless  ,$'   160     TO-DAY: A ROMANCE. of the world outside of it. You engage in contests which are sharp and emulous, but always honorable; contests for superiority in what should make one proud of success, and where a triumph is never low or inglorious, and where no serpent strife can enter. You pursue knowledge for the sake of knowledge, where its immediate utility in this earthly turmoil is not seen or thought about, scarce con- ceived of. It is this continual and unremitting habit for four years, which, by its humane, expansive influence, lays the foundation for a true life in the future; and it is in this respect that the graduate is said to be " liberally " educated. Not with regard to the amount of study he has gone through, but to the liberal and unselfish views he is sup- posed to acquire, and which prepare him for high and noble aims. We left Tom Castleton, at the close of the last chapter, settling quietly down to his work; while his friend, Alf Du Barry, on board the steamship, was making his way across the Atlantic. To a New York youth, probably, no institution of learning in our land presents so strong a contrast with his own personal surroundings as Dartmouth. Situated at a distance from any large town, there are no extraneous influences which can affect it. On the con- trary, the college gives its tone and stamp and character to the locality. Here no accident of birth can have the slightest influence. Here wealth possesses not even a soli- tary advantage. Here manhood, pure and simple, counts, and he who makes the most of his abilities ranks highest. Tom was just the one to be suited with these condi-   "BERALLY EDUCATED.      .   161 tions; for, as we know, his nature was genuine and unaf- fected. He very soon became acquainted with every member of his class, and began to form new friendships., and, by the end of the first term, he was as thoroughly in harness as his best friends could desire. It-would appear that the Rev. Croton Ellsworth did not share in the views which I have expressed about a "Iiberal education." It is true, -he himself had received the benefit of one: more than this, Croton ranked high in his class, and in spite of his long skirts and salmon-colored gloves, stood among the first as a divinity student. He had, moreover, at different times, delivered literary ad-     dresses before his own university, and on one occasion, an erudite discourse before the theological school, which were marked with much ability. One would reasonably suppose, therefore, that he would take special care that Harry, his son-his only son-should 1:   receive the best education it was in his power to bestow. But you are mistaken. The career shaped by this eminent divine for his bright and promising boy, as every one called him, had no reference to intellectual training or moral de- I velopment. Sir:    As we have seen, he sent his son to a business college, !::: where he learned to keep accounts and to trade; where he t:o  formed and dissolved imaginary partnerships, and per. '?::!- formed mimic scenes of financial success and disaster. ^i;-    The reason Croton Ellsworth gave for the course taken ! :i? with Harry was the " practical tendency of the age, and !'ii!? the imperative necessity that the business class which now governed should be made up from the best materials the ::)rne   162     TO-DAY: A ROMANCE. country could afford. That the scope for usefulness was so wide herein, it was his bounden duty to educate his son for immediate effort." What was the real motive hidden far down in his heart which possibly Croton Ellsworth dared not acknowledge to himself, while vaguely conscious of it, I ought not to be- tray. A motive covered up by gown and surplice, overlaid by prayer and genuflexion, and concealed by a suave, unc- tuous but impenetrable demeanor. Was it that the man had been given over to the god of this world, and had no hope and saw no beauty in any other? That to him were necessary such material accesso- ries as wealth only can bring, and that he had resolved his son should be a worshiper of mammon, instead of the true riches? It does not become me to pass this sentence. Croton Ellsworth is one of the preachers of To-Day, and you, reader, may judge him for yourself. But to what particular occupation did he destine his son? You will probably say he placed Harry in some im- portant shipping house, with wide commercial relations, or possibly with his friends Allwise & Co., large wholesale grocers, heavy dealers of the very first class, who promised to look carefully after Harry, and see to his advancement, if he were trusted to them. There were prominent com- mission houses also, who would have gladly undertaken to render the Rev. Croton Ellsworth a service by giving his son a good place. Other large and valuable industrial pur- suits-were open to him, where he would have achieved much by honorable industry. None of these were selected.   A SUCCESSFUL WALL STREET MAN.       163 CHAPTER II A SUCCESSFUL WALL STREET MAN. THS brings me to a new chapter. For the man I would describe, is entitled to a distinct allotment here. Jacob Illingsworth was one of the prominent stock- brokers of Wall street. The firm wrote itself Jacob Illings- worth & Co., and consisted of three members, of which the senior partner was the life and brain. The house was very rich, and in consequence, eminently respectable. It had a select constituency, and operated largely on its own ac- count, but always with great prudence. Illingsworth was a man of fifty. He was by nature gifted with a clear capacity, and an almost unerring judg- ment. He was conscientious in a measure, and he tried to not violate his moral sense.  He was left an orphan at an early age, and had to fight his way against many obsta- cles. He had engaged in several pursuits, had failed in some of them, but had always preserved a reputation for honesty and fair dealing. This man supported a great number of poor relations, and gave liberally to various charitable institutions and to the ordinary demands of the day. Outside the purlieus of the stock exchange, Jacob Illingsworth was kind-hearted, considerate, and, I had almost said, sympathetic-that is.   164     TO-DAY: A ROMANCE. if you could lay hold of him when quite by himself, which was difficult enough. In his business he was quick and sharp, hard, reticent, and imperturable, swift to execute, rigorous and unsparing. Very necessary elements, you will tell me, considering the class of people he encountered. You are quite right. In such a contest, where every cunning scheme and appli- ance are brought to bear to circumvent and entrap, he had to employ the best weapons he could command. But the constant and intense labor brought its own retribution. It ossified him. At fifty he was yoked to the trade he had adopted, having scarcely any other thought or emotion than what centered in and around it. His wife was a very fashionable woman, one of the leaders of ton. His two daughters were just " coming out,' and were attracting many admirers. Sons he had none. His household was conducted in the most liberal, not to say extravagant manner. His wife had every variety of equipage to suit her caprice, or the caprice of the season. There were saddle-horses for the young ladies, a pony- phaeton and French maids. Moreover, the liveries were in exceeding good taste. As to the dresses of madame and her daughters, I have nothing to say. Mrs. Illingsworth's receptions and parties were among the most brilliant in the city, and you met the most agree- able society every evening in her salon. She was still a very handsome woman. When young, she was beautiful. Jacob met her one summer at Northampton, when she was a blooming girl of eighteen, and he an attractive young   A SUCCESSFUL WALL STREET MAN.         165 man of five-and-twenty. They fell in love with each other, so I have always understood, and were married. What had become of that early love? One thing is certain. Nothing ever occurred to mar their connubial felicity. Through many difficulties and against many obstacles Jacob pushed his way, wherein his wife proved a good wife indeed, sharing her husband's fortunes, and submitting cheerfully to their changes. Certainly their early love was not jeoparded here. By-and-by Jacob began to feel the tide of prosperity on which he was rising. His wife felt it too. She was ambi- tious, and she had now the means of gratifying her wishes. She devoted herself to society, and she carried her devo- tion to an extreme. What wonder? Jacob, on his part, was engrossed in affairs, and Mrs. Illingsworth felt that it was entirely with her to control the social position of the family. Here the two separated, not disagreed. And here their early love, which had stood the test of trial and adversity, indeed had grown brighter under it, faded and was lost sight of, I fear, forever. I have said you met the most agreeable society every evening  in Mrs. Illingsworth's salon, but you never en- countered her husband there. Shall I tell you what was the habit of his life? It was to proceed every morning, immediately after breakfast, to his place of business, where his very soul was abandoned to his large and complicated affairs until late in the day. At  half-past six he dined with his family. Shortly after dinner he proceeded to his club ; not for the purpose of re-   166     TO-DAY: A, ROMANCE. laxation, but to discuss with certain business friends the events of the day, and the probabilities of the morrow. Positively this is the entire record. Even if he dropped in half an hour at the Opera, or at a party, it did not serve to distract his mind, or afford him the least recreation. True, you saw Illingsworth's name on numerous sub- scription lists, and on the roll of various committees; but his check for a charity was signed mechanically. His name alone, not his presence, figured in the committees. He went to church on Sunday, but not even the delightful music could recall his heart from the last stock quotation. Much less could the dull platitudes of the preacher release his vigorous mind from its tenacious hold on what, alas! solely occupied it. Such was Jacob Illingsworth at the age. of fifty. His fine intellect had become a mere machine. The pulsations of his heart were muffled. He loved his children, that is, he used to love them; but now he had no time to spare even for parental affection. His very kindnesses to his relatives became a part of the machine-work, which really was all that was left of him. I was myself well acquainted with this gentleman. When young men, we were intimate. I never shall forget returning to New York, after several years' absence, and going to call on him in Wall street. It was after he had risen to fortune. As I came in, the door of his private. room was open, and he saw me before I was announced. A gleam  of re- cognition passed like sunshine over his face as he advanced cordially, and took my hand. I sat down. Many ques-   A SUCCESSFUL WALL STREET MAN.       167 tions were asked and answered on both sides. In this way four or five minutes elapsed, when the settled look of in- tense pre-occupation came back with a marble-like pallor, and the demon had him again. I left Jacob, feeling that he was lost to me. To be sure, I dined with him after this and attended parties at his house; but my friend was no more. It is by design that I have drawn this portrait of an early acquaintance, who, under different circumstances, might have lived a life of distinguished usefulness.   168     TO-DAY: A ROMAN CE. CHAPTER HI. THE CHOICE. LooK at Jacob Illingsworth, Croton Ellsworth. You have intellect and appreciation to understand precisely what manner of man he is. You know he is one of the best of his class. You certainly cannot count on Harry's becoming a better man than he. Are you willing to con- sign this fresh, active young fellow to such a life? Perhaps he will not prove to be what you reasonably expect. He may become, instead, one of the "fast" class, and overdraw, or embezzle, or forge. Think, Croton, of your own early life; of your mother who taught you to lisp your prayers, and who still commends you to God in her own humble petitions, believing you to be a poor clergyman; too poor, in fact, to pay her expenses to and from her humble home to visit you. Why do I make this appeal? Do I not know it to be useless? Do I not know your heart is hard as the nether millstone? Harry Ellsworth was eighteen when he finished his course at Poughkeepsie. He then entered the famous stock concern of Jacob lllingsworth & Co.   THE CHOICE.          169 It was not easy to obtain a place in this establishment, for the senior partner had a keen eye on every one in his service, and scrutinized an applicant severely. The Rev. Croton Ellsworth, however, could feel no embarrassment in recommending so valuable a young man as Harry to one of his own parishioners. Still he did not go to it directly. He preferred always what was round- about. He applied to Mrs. Illingsworth, who at once spoke to her husband, who forthwith named a time when he would see Harry. The interview appears to have been satisfactory; for he was immediately installed in his position; a position which, if faithfully filled, would bring him in the regular line of promotion. Following closely the example of so holy a man as the Rev. Croton Ellsworth, Mr. Graves, the Westchester county coal merchant, as we have already had occasion to mention, sent Charley, with Harry, to Poughkeepsie, where they were bosom friends and companions. It was therefore very natural that he should seek the same occu- pation for his son as that which Harry had entered on. He could not command a place in so important a house as that of Illingsworth, but he succeeded in getting Charley in the concern of Flint & Collet, which, if not the most " solid," was one of the most " active and enter- prising " houses in the street. Their operations were very bold, and had latterly been very successful; go that at the time of Charley's entrance, it had the reputation for wealth and business capacity. Herbe we place our two youths, who certainly deserve a 8 /   170     TO-DAY: A ROMANCE. better fate. They are to learn the trade of buying and selling what is perpetually changing hands, but what is never consumed; which floats pestiiential in the Wall street air, mythical and utterly incomprehensible to the uninitiated. Something which daily and hourly returns to rejoice or torment those who trust to it; oftener to tor- ment, frequently to degrade and ruin. A trade wherein failure is good fortune, if it comes in time to turn the victim to other pursuits, and success is moral desolation. Harry Ellsworth had all of his father's intellect and much of his selfish nature. But there was a " gentle strain " running through his character, which, I suppose, he inherited from his mother. His attachment for Charley Graves was sincere, although the latter did much to test it. Charley -was one of those easy-natured,-p]easant, off- hand fellows, who have the reputation of being  good- hearted and generous, when in reality they are indolent and selfish. You may perhaps   recollect a little incident which occurred when they were children, when Charley left Virginia Randall at the foot of the hill and ran off to his dinner, because he had played enough.  Here is an index to his character. No one appears to have observed it, and now no one called Charley selfish, because his manner was so free and easy, and there was nothing calculating about it. This is really the most disagreeable phase of selfish- ness, because it is displayed when you least expect it; specially disappointing you if you ever trust to it. In one way and another, Harry Ellsworth bore a good deal from his companion. Harry was orderly and me-   THE CHOICE.          171 thodical; Charley the reverse. The latter at school would invade Harry's drawers, make use of his collars and hand- kerchiefs, and throw things in general disorder. If Harry ever seriously remonstrated, Charley would laugh it off till it would seem ridiculous to be angry with him. When they came to New York and entered on duty in Wall street, they still continued their intimacy. But now Harry Ellsworth began more fully to understand his old school- fellow; began to comprehend this easy, goofnatured, careless outside. Charley was always a spendthrift, and at school made quick work with his own pocket money, and then helped Harry to make way with his. The boys all called him generous, but there was no generosity about him. Harry, as his mind grew sharper in the practice of his new vocation, began to see this. The old habit kept them together and prevented any breach of friend- ship. Virginia Randall liked Charley Graves better than any one else. The careless way in which he sometimes treated her, served only to attach her the more to him. Charley knew how Virginia felt, and was proud of his conquest. Besides, he loved her as much as he could any one. As for Harry Ellsworth, he really loved Virginia. She was well aware of it, and unwilling to throw him off, she coquetted and trifled with him. Take care, young   lady! You are on dangerous ground. So far from liking Harry Ellsworth, you really dislike him. You call him methodical and calculating, yet you appear deeply interested when he approaches, and you determine to retain him in your train of admirers. Have   172     TO-DAY: A ROMANCE. a care!  When Harry discovers what you are doing, beware of what he is capable of in return! The influence of such a concern as Illingsworth's, was to make Harry Ellsworth more cautious, more calculating and unsympathetic; that of Flint & Collet was to render Charley Graves more careless and unconcerned and reck- less of expenditure. He saw how easily money was made and lost, and he came to regard the whole as a mere play of jack-straws. He was right and wrong. Right that it was a game; wrong as to its harmless quality. The play is with " edge tools," bout he did not seem to understand that.   DU BARRY TO CASTLETON.        173 CHAPTER IV. "ETTER FROM ALF DU BARRY TO TOM CASTLETON, BEING THE FIFTH OF THAT YOUNG GENTLEMAN'S EPISTLES TO HS FRIEND AFTER ARRIVING IN EUROPE. SCHWEINFURTH. Oct. 25, 18-. DEAR ToM': My last was dispatched from Wurzburg, which is but a few miles south of this place. You will give me credit for a pretty faithful account of my move- ments thus far. Here I call a halt, and will devote this letter to bringing up the odds and ends that I may have overlooked or omitted. I am settled at last; at least for a while; certainly till I can acquire command of the confounded language. If there is any thing, Tom, that will take a fellow's conceit out of him, especially if he fancies he " knows it all," it is to travel through a country where you can neither speak nor be spoken to. Why! the meanest servant at an inn is pro tetmpore, your superior. As to the courier, he looks down on you with a complacent pity perfectly ludicrous to witness. To be led by the nose, as some people are, by these knaves!-you need not suppose I have been so green as to use one. Notwithstanding English and French are spoken in all   174     TO-DAY: A ROMANCE. the first-class hotels, I do feel mean enough to step into the streets and be tongue-tied. I got on pretty well in France, though betsween you and me, Tom, my French rubbed hard. You know we fancied we could speak like natives. There is a set of scamps in all the principal places, called Colunissionaires. They speak four or five different l nguages, and lave an unerring scent for a new comer. They hover about the hotels, ready to light on you the instant you arrive. These fellows swarming around, make you feel like a prisoner. You finish your breakfast, for example, and step out to enjoy a little free observation on your own account. A Commissionaire approaches and addresses you in your own language. "You would like to see the cathedral, I presume?" [I say cathedral, Tom, for cathedrals are as plenty as blackberries, and you can scarcely turn a corner without fetching up against one.] "The cathedral, I presume; please to follow me." And he looks at you as if yol were under arrest, and he had an order to conduct you to prison. Now the cathedral aforesaid is possibly a block off; probably in futh view of the hotel; but the impudent rogue undertakes to pilot you to it with all the sang ,froid in the iworld. Then he insists on pointing every thing out to you which you could not by any possibility help seeing without assistance. You generally abandon yourself to your captor in despair. You have no means of escape. He hangs to you like a dog to a bone.   DU BARRY TO CASTLETON.         175 I have devised a means, though! I practised it first at Nuremburg. I will try and describe the scene. As I stepped out of the Baierischer tHof I saw three of these gentry posted at convenient intervals; so that one failing to trap me, I should be forced to run the gaunt- let of the others. Well, my man came up smiling pleasantly.  A fine morning," he said, in English. I looked very black at him, but made no reply. 6 You would like to visit the objects of interest, I suppose??" I opened on him by repeating, in an angry tone, a rat- tling verse from the Greek Testament. You remember it gin Revelations: IKro f6ov aA)ov avyt lov iyv 61Oq &c. He was somewhat taken aback, but he did not give it up.  "Would you like to see St. Sebald's and the Rath- hauis?" he inquired, still in English. In reply, I fired a shot at him from Jacobs' Greek reader: Os).o) .eyEtv a'rqcScas, &c., which silenced his English gun, for he at once exclaimed, "Patlez vous Franqais?"  My answer was from the first oration of Cicero against Catiline: Quousque tandem abutere, O Catilina, patientia nostra, &c., which I delivered in a fearfully excited tone. The Commissionaire was greatly subdued, but he was not overcome. He ventured to accost me in Italian, when   176     TO-DAY: A ROMANCE. I poured out on him, in the most diabolical manner, the whole Greek alphabet, intoning my voice to. give emnphasis to the different letters, doubling up my fist and gesticulat- ing violently till I had gone through with it entire, from Alpha to Omega. This broke him down. He was actually frightened. He did not turn away, but back7ed slowly off, as if he was afraid to take his eyes from me. When at a respectful distance, he stopped to witness the result of the attack of number two. This number two iwras a less audacious sample. Hle had witnessed the failure of number one, and drew rather milder oil me. I served up to himn a couple of lines from Homer's Iliad, 1,',8Qoc Eot, &c.; two sentences of a Greek fable, Mvlua ;epsaCovaa Ets zvrtoCV zoeaZOS; and Virgil's "Conti- czuere omnz2es, intentique ora tenebacnt " (the latter was got off in a fearful rage), when le turned and fled amid the laughter of number one and the astonishment of number three, who did not venture to accost me after the discom- fiture of his companions, but who proceeded to join them, when, putting their heads together, they evidently held a council. For my own amusement I walked slowly up and down, casting savage looks in their direction. I was really in hopes they would renew the attack. I had plenty of ammunition in reserve, to say nothing, Tom, of our pig Latin. "Ioggibuis piggibus, et shotam  damnabile grunto," and all that sort of thing; but it was of no use. And although I staid a couple of days in Nuremberg, I was not molested once. These fellows gave me a wide berth.   DU BARRY TO CASTLETON.        1" They must have told all their associates in knavery, for whenever any of the set saw me coming, he made haste to get out of my way. I never relaxed; and if I was near enough to be observed, I would forthwith begin to mutter to myself, and make gestures. Since the success of my experiment I feel very independent, and have come to the resolution never to permit myself to utter a word of English in presence of any of the set of couriers, valets, commissionaires, head waiters, kellners, and so forth. They say I shall not pick up a very pure German accent here, but, me ferczule, I am for the time content to master any sort of a patois, if I can make myself under- stood by it. Old Verulam was right: "He that travelleth into a country before he hath some entrance into the lan- guage, goeth to school, and not to travel." I have not explained to you, Tom, why I set myself down in this particular spot. It was near here that my aunt lived. She had many acquaintances in the neighbor- hood, and the family with whom she resided lived just out- side the town. Business (a big word for me to use, Tom, isn't it?) brought me to the place; and I determine to stay here till I cease to be tongue-tied, if it takes my whole six years. Oct. 30. I was interrupted just here, and have really had no opportunity to resume. I have been-very busy, I assure you. To begin with, I have secured a first-rate tutor, who is going to do his best to cram me in German. For I certainly can't do a thing toward education till I master   178      TO-DAY: A ROlMANCE. the language. It is not enough that I can flourish my phrases- CiC Iletisst 1 as '1orf, b-clj bas fbr soraben yCfaimel? iann ge9i btr tzste ulg tEs ELoTrgcas ah? and the like. I must know it. You will laugh when I tell you I never thought of that. I had a sort of floating idea I was going direct to Bonn, or Gottingen, or Heidel- berg, or some other famous university, and settle into the life of a German student! I am a long way from that, TAom. First, as I am inclined to think, I have got to go to school at least a couple of years, before I shall be pre- palred to reap any advantage from the universities. So imy tutor tells me, and I guess he is right. You -notice, I say " school; " but as far as I can learn whlat is called " school" here-I mean the higher school or "gymnasium "-answers pretty much to our college. The same studies are pursued, and a strict discipline en- forced. After you finish at one of these institutions you are fitted for the university, where you attend any course you choose, and where you live free as an Arab, study as much or as little as you like; in fact, you are your own master. If you   choose to study, you have a splendid chance; if you don't, you don't. So much I have picked up, and hasten to tell you all I knonw  myself. I have left the hotel and taken lodgings with a  good-natured little family, who occupy a small house near the river (Main), and who have but this one room to let. The man is an engraver, and a capital good fellow. They can speak nothing but German; not even a   DU BARRy TO CASTLETON.        179 scrap of French; so I am well situated in that respect. There is a first-rate public school here, which I think I shall try when I learn the language enough to get on in it. Tom, do you know I begin to feel a little homesick? Now that I am settling down to work, six years seem a fearfully long time. Besides, things don't look half as fine as you think they will when you imagine all about them three thousand miles off. Do you remember how grandiloquent you used to be over Milton's geographical lines: A. multitude like which the populous North Poured never from her frozen loins, to pass Rhene or the Danau. "What would I give," you used to exclaim, " to see the Danube! ' Well, Tom, I have seen it. I got a glimpse of it at Ulm. Pretty well up the country, I admit, but I was dreadfully taken down. At that place it is about two hundred feet wide, and runs through as uninteresting a region as you can well imagine-flat, stale, and insipid. However, I am told that after you reach Vienna it is really a good deal of a river.  But, Tom, as far as I have seen, give me the Hudson! I must break off here. I am looling daily for your next. You seem to be getting along famously. I wish you missed me more than you appear to! Good-by-           ALF. P. S.- Remember me when you have the opportunity, in any way you like, to-you know wao. We had a little   180     TO-DAY: A ROMA TCE. tiff the last time I saw her. I did not tell you about it. I dare say she will.            ALF. P. S. No. 2.--Don't mention to any one what I said about being homesick. It will pass off in a little while; and, on the whole, don't mention my name to-the one in question.                 ALF.   "AWYER OR PRIEST.         181 CHAPTER V. "AWYER OR PRIEST. "WHAT are you going to make of your boy, Doctor?" This question was addressed by Horace Pulsifer, one of the. leading lawyers of New York, to Dr. Castleton, the father of Tom. The two men were seated at a cosy little dinner-table discussing the merits of a bottle of choice claret, the flavor of which lwas heightened from time to time by a nibble of old Parmesan or a bite of an olive. It was in the dining-room of the lawyer's house. Dr. Castleton had been called in to see Mrs. Pulsifer, who was indisposed; and having made the professional visit above stairs, descended to the dining-room in time to share in the dessert. The two were old friends. Both had risen to the highest position in their respective professions. Besides the attachment of a long intercourse, these men had the peculiar regard for one another which persons of large intellects invariably entertain where both have risen to eminence before the world. They did not now see a great deal of each other. As they were situated, it was almost impossible they should do so. Still, on set occasions, they met at a social dinner or at an occasional reception, and sometimes in the chance way just described.   182     TO-DAY: A ROMZANCE. '"What are you going to make of your boy?" Tom had been at home on a four weeks' vacation, which had just closed. The lawyer had'seen him at a little party in his own house, and had spent fifteen minutes in conversation with him. Fifteen minutes was a long while for the Iman of law to converse with anybody, and in that time he managed to extract from him more than our hero had ever disclosed in his life before; so he felt, at least. Speaking of it afterwards to a classmate, Tom remarked he never felt so in his life. "It appeared," he said, " as if the man's mind was prying into mine, and that I was helpless." Whatever was the result of the lawyer's scrutiny, in his own judgment, it certainly caused him to put the question, '"What are you going to make of your boy?" The inquiry was made apropos of nothing, as we say, showing that Mr. Pulsifer had a special object in it. In fact, it came out directly after some commonplace remark of the Doctor, which his legal friend did not think it necessary to respond to. The Doctor, on his part, did not appear to hear the other's query, for he helped himself to two or three more olives, remarking, "Spanish, are they not?" "I say, Doctor, what will you make of Tom?" The Doctor moved uneasily in his seat, he sipped his sherry, then answered, slowly, ("I don't know; his mother wants to make a minister of him." ' O Lord! you don't tell me that," ejaculated the lawyer "You don't think the lad is fitted for the church, do you?"   "AWYER OR PRIEST.         183 r I really can't say what I think; in fact, Pulsifer, I have not paid the attention to Tom I ought to. You know how it must be with me," he continued; for his friend remained silent as if he expected he would proceed; "my time is so constantly taken up. You have no chil- dren," he added; for the lawyer seemed determined not to speak, and his silence oppressed the Doctor more than an accusation. "You have no son," he repeated, " and can- not judge how difficult it is to look after one when you are perpetually preoccupied." "And you have never spoken to Tom on the subject?" "Yes, I have,' replied the Doctor, recalling what he had once said. "I told him years ago to consult his tastes in the choice of a profession, and his mother, I think, agrees with me on that point." "Yet she desires to see Tom a clergyman?" rg    "She does." -i::   " 'You must put a stop to that, Doctor, before it goes any further," exclaimed Mr. Pulsifer in a decisive tone. "It will destroy him." "What do you mean?" You must let me have him. I know just what he is made of. Submitted him to a siccative process. His quality is superb." ; "Too good by half for the law, I should say, then," put in the Doctor, jocosely, while refilling his glass. "I am not in the mood for jesting; besides, jokes about lawyers are stale, and don't become a man of your intelligence," said the other, with some severity. '"I can see just what Tom will come to in ten years, if you make a   184     TO-DAY: A ROMANCE. priest of him; a morbid, superstitious, unearthly creature. Why, the boy, with as fine an intellect as ever lad was blessed with, knows as little of the what and the why of this world as a child four years old." "I did not think Tom was so green," put in the Doctor. "Green! He is not a bit green; not in the least -green," said Mr. Pulsifer, quickly "The fact is, you don't seem to understand me." "I confess I don't." ' I will not undertake metaphysics with you to-day," responded the lawyer. "What I would say is, that a clergyman should possess a matter-of-fact knowledge, which many acquire readily, and which others have to learn at the hardest. Once gained; it makes the very best material for him. On the contrary, give me a lad of first- class imagination, romantic, and with a dash of sentiment in his composition, for my trade. Look at me," and the lawyer put his finger on his own high-arched eyebrow, and then further. up on his forehead. "You don't know what a romantic, sentimental, dreamy chap I used to be." Here the Doctor burst into a laugh, which continued so long that the lawyer could not help joining in it. "You romantic! You sentimental!" continued the Doctor, wiping his eyes. "I always gave you credit for being something of a physiognomist, Doctor," said Mr Pulsifer, drily. "Never mind that. I tell you your boy is in danger. He is soon to leave college. You must turn him over to me. I know just what to do with him, and you do not. If he   "AWYER OR PRIEST.         185 must become a clergyman, let him first take a course of legal study." "Excuse me," replied Dr. Castleton, " if I have treated what you said with a certain degree of levity. It is not often I can indulge in a laugh; and what you said of yourself struck the ludicrous side of me, thinking what a dry, caustic fellow you have the credit of being. I have no doubt you are right about Tom; indeed, now I think of it, I am quite sure you acre right. He shall have the benefit of the training you speak of, unless the idea is absolutely repugnant to him." "I will look after him as if he were my own son," said the lawyer. "I know that very well," replied the Doctor. "I will call myself and converse with your wife on the subject," continued the lawyer. "It will do little good, I fear," added the Doctor, rising. '"Mrs. Pulsifer is not seriously indisposed you said?" "No; she will be out in a day or two." : The two shook hands, and the Doctor got in his car- riage and drove away. ': An odd fancy, that of Pulsifer's about Tom," said he to himself. "How strange he should pay so little attention to his own son," muttered the -lawyer. "I will have the boy yet. What an advocate he will make!" ,:!,1   186     TO-DAY:   A ROMANCE. CHAPTER VI. REVIVALS. THS happened in Tom's first senior vacation. When he returned to Dartmouth that winter, he felt his college course was drawing to an end. Then the old question of a profession began again to trouble him. [ His mother had never spoken to him on (e subject since the memorable occasion of the Doctor's i trference. Neither had the Doctor, as he confessed toL friend Pulsifer, taken any further thought in the matter. Having the exalted idea of the character of a clergy- man that we have described, Tom felt he never could, in his own person, come up to the proper standard. Besides, he never had experienced a " change of heart;" that is, so far as he could judge. During the previous summer there had been a " revi- val" in the college. By this term my readers will of course understand I mean a " revival of religion." A serious interest in the Future had prevailed for some time. This Was fostered and stimulated by the action of the professors, and the introduction of eloquent preachers. I am aware that in some churches revivals arle getting out of fashion, in others they are condemned and ridi- culed, while in others still, they are considered as the actual outpouring of the Spirit of God.   REVIVALS.           187 It is strange that among Christians such absolute con- tradiction of opinion should exist on a subject of so much Lr  importance. It has always appeared to me that a " revival" is a, positive, indeed a necessary consequence of our state of sin and moral obliquity. It is not surprising that these "revivals" occur, but that they occur so seldom. When persons are wakened from the torpor of worldliness and feel the gloomy uncertainty of their state, what wonder they start up alarmed? We speak of the " revival" of letters; a " revival" of interest in every variety of subject which affects man- kind. We see whole communities from time to time re- markably stirred in this way. We witness great excite- ment in politics. We have at one period a "musical mania," then a "theatrical mania," next the "lecture mania." What we call " speculation " is merely a "re- vival" in some one of the many departments of business: in mining, in railroads, in oil, in real estate. In short, all great advances are made by efforts which appear more or less spasmodic.  Why, then, should a "revival of re- ligion" be sneered at by the ungodly or by the staid j::  moralist who shelters himself under a cold frame of holi- ness, and who tells you he is opposed to any "undue ex- citement?" The Rev. Croton Ellsworth was very much opposed to revivals and revival preachers. The stated means of grace as ordained by the Church were all-sufficient. In the holy time of Lent there was an abundance of oppor- tunity for his flock to think over the little follies of the ,I,   188     TO-DAY: A ROMANCE. winter, and get ready for-the summer campaign! Oh, no; Croton could not favor these highly exceptional out- breaks! The revival among the .students did not take Tom Castleton by surprise, as it did many. On the contrary, he had been all his life too thoughtful, I was about to say, too conscientious, which I admit would not have been exactly a proper observation. This is it: he was cramped by a conscience morbidly tender, and oppressed by the great mystery of life, out of which he saw no way of escape, and on which he continually ruminated. When, therefore, the subject of religion was pressed home to the attention of every student, and the excite- ment ran high, it only reached the " plane "Tom lived in pretty much all the time without experiencing any excite- ment whatever! The consequence was, Tom did not manifest the " live- ly interest" in the movement which a large proportion of the students exhibited. He attended the prayer meetings and the inquiry meetings. He conversed with the pious ones who called to see him, and assented calmly to every proposition. Some shook their heads and feared Tom was " taking refuge behind his morality." He was not enough under conviction. He did not appear to suffer those agonized pangs. which should afflict a sin-stricken soul. Some of Tom's classmates would, in their agony, groan aloud; others were already rejoicing in a new hope, and with bright, happy faces, exhorted their companions to perse- vere.   REVIVALS.          189 I am sure Tom would have sunk to a despairing state, had it not been for the venerable Professor S--, then the distinguished professor of moral and intellectual phi- losophy and metaphysics at Dartmouth. In the depart- ment over which the Professor presided, Tom ranked first of his class. He was a great favorite with the old gentle- man; and at this crisis, Tom naturally sought his counsel and direction. He was received with so much kindness and gentleness, and treated with so much consideration, that he felt at once at ease. The Professor had in early life been a clergyman, and he seemed at a glance to understand Tom's case. He quite surprised Tom by not treating him as if he were suffering from some incurable malady. He disputed the idea that it was necessary for him to go through a period of suffering, before emerging into the calm of a. Christian hope. He prayed with him, he conversed with him on ordinary topics, he related anecdotes of his own life; in short, he did what he could to keep Tom from falling into a morbid state. In due course, the special feeling came to an end. Many were converted, and many relapsed into their old state. As for Tom, I hardly know what to observe. He had not experienced any particular change of purpose, but it was because his purpose had always been true. He had not emerged, like many, into freedom from doubt. The mystery of life had become no clearer or plainer. Tom believed, but he was not comforted.   190     TO-DAY: A R OMANCE. "I do not enjoy myself," he said to Professor S---. "Do you enjoy GOD?" asked the old man kindly. "That is the main point. I think, sometimes," he contin- ued, " that you are anxious to be as miserable as possible. You must get out of this state, for you never will get through it. Some years ago a student came to me in dis- tress, in very great distress. He had been a long time under conviction, and this is what tormented him. Said he to lme 'I know I ought to feel submissive to God's will. But truly, I cannot bring myself to feel willing to be damned, even if such were His will.' "I tried to give his thoughts another direction, but to no purpose. He dwelt on this single idea perpetually. He would come to me daily. "'I cannot submit to be damned,' he repeated at each visit. "At length he came with a face radiant with joy. "' At last I have peace,' he said. 'I have submitted. I do feel that if such should be the Lord's pleasure, I would be willing to be damned! ' "WCell," I said, " that is a strictly personal affair. If you are willing to be damned, I am willing you should. And now let me advise you to turn your attention to practical piety." "And I advise you," continued Professor S---, ad- dressing Tom, " to not perplex yourself further, but trust in God, and leave the inexplicable and unfathomable to Him whose ways are past finding out." The r -e Tom thought on the subject, the more unfit for a clergyman he believed himself to be. Still he felt   REVIVALS.-          191 very doubtful what he ought to do. While in this uncer- tain mood, he encountered the lawyer. It was an interest- ing meeting between the man of experience, subtle, pene- trating, tenacious, and the college student. Tom was as ignorant of the secret spring which moves the world-SELFISHNESS-a  s if he were a mere baby. Yet his mind was cultivated and well-informed, and his percep- tions keen. But to one of his nature, this terrible truth comes only by experience. In this way they met. The lawyer wore on his coun- tenance a look, not perceptible to the ordinary observer, which said: Believe me, Who have chewed the bitter cud from year to year, No mortal, from the cradle to the bier, Digests the ancient leaven. But what was it that attracted this man so toward Tom? It was this: He saw in him the image of what he himself used to be. Saw it and trembled. Saw it and was fascinated, was magnetized at this view, as in a magic mirror, of his former self. He could understand the mistakes which had been made with him. Let him have the charge of that young fellow, and these should be avoided. He dropped a few words to Tom which fell like a plummet into the very depths of his soul. As I have said, the interview lasted but fifteen minutes, but it stirred Tom more than any thing which ever happened to him.   192      TO-DA Y : A ROMANCE. He returned to college to ponder on it. The lawyer did not lose sight of his prize, as he con- sidered him. He called on iMrs. Castleton, as he told the Doctor he should do. I have no means of ascertaining precisely what passed at that interview. I only know that Mr. Pulsifer left triumphant, and what is more, Mrs. Cas- tleton appeared to be satisfied! So much for the lawyer's power of persuasion. I think, however, that Mrs. Castleton did not consider, because Tom was to enter the office of Mr. Pulsifer, that the question of what profession he would ultimately choose was settled. That gentleman was certainly right when he said, even if Tom decided on theology, he ought first to learn some practical lessons. Thus the matter was settled. Tom graduated with high honors, and after a pleasant vacation, entered on his duties as a law student.   BILL HOLT S SECRET.        193 CHAPTER   VIL BILL HOLT'S SECRET. ALTHOUGH Bill Holt entered the metropolis triumph- ant, or rather defiant and self-confident, -he had. a long, weary, laborious struggle before he could get even a foot- hold in the soap and candle factory. That establishment was full, and more than full, when Dr. Castleton asked a place for Bill. Not only so, but just at that time they were actually discharging some, because trade was dull. The Doctor could not well be refused when he took the trouble to prefer so trivial a request, and Bill came accordingly. He was put to a divided duty. A little, miserable looking boy was employed in some repulsive work about the place, and Bill was detailed to help him, when he really did not need help. It was not very encouraging; but to Bill it had the charm of novelty, and he submitted without the least dissatisfaction not only to the disagree- able work, but to sharing it with a mere boy who could easily do the whole of it. That boy-he was but thirteen--had a home. It was in a wretched tenement house, to be sure. The lad occu- pied a trundle-bed, and Bill Holt arranged to share it with him and to board (?) in the family. In this way he could 9   194     TO-DAY: A ROMAN CE. keep body and soul together on the scanty wages he re- ceived, and at least be no burthen to his mother. A year passed, wh -rein Bill not only did his own work, but he served as errand boy in the concern, and in addition, undertook to make himself "generally useful." Unfortunately, his appearance was much against him, and as nothing occurred to call the attention of the principal to Bill, he went on as a sort of universal servitor to the establishment. Bill did not care. He wanted time to look around him; to see and to comprehend what was going on. It will be remembered his education was good; more than good; in that he had given careful attention to practical chem- istry. He determined, one of these days, to turn this to account in the factory. He was in no hurry. He wanted first to learn what the great town was made of. Sunday was a famous day for Bill. He never went to church! Thanks to the Rev. Croton Ellsworth, Bill Holt was an Unbeliever! It is true, at this early age, this youth, despite his religious education, his mother's prayers and kind teachings, had rejected the truth of a revelation which acknowledged a Croton Ellsworth for an exponent. Bill meantime grew naturally more and more bitter. He had a resolve of iron knitted in his soul. He was in no haste to develop it. He had faith that his time would come. At last came the wave of returning prosperity in affairs. The "establishment" soon gave tokens of it. Bill's labors increased. By-and-by a young man in an upper department was taken sick. Bill offered to fill his place till he got out again.   BILL HOLT' S SECRET.         195 When you are willing to labor for nothing, you will always find enough to do. This was the case with Bill. There was no objection to his going through all the work he chose to assume, so long as he said nothing about an increase of wages. The head of the establishment was not annoyed by any application on this hand, so Bill was left to discharge duties which he had not calculated on attaining for a long time to come. How he performed his labors I need not add. He brought every appliance at his command to bear on his work. It could not fail to attract attention. The truth is, there was not a person in the whole concern that had half of Bill's talent. He began to understand this. He could now comprehend the metropolis and its requirements. He saw just how its claims were enforced. MONEY. He felt its power. The aristocracy of New York is made up of capital.* Mr. Abbott, a maker and vender of soap and candles, was one of the foremost in the ranks of wealth and fash- ion. His wife was one of the most charming women in society. Why not? Patience, uttered Bill. I know better than Mr. Abbott how to manufacture, but I am not as rich as he. One of these days I shall be necessary to him. So he continued to do the duties aforesaid for a mere nothing, unwilling to disturb the statu quo by a suggestion of proper compensation. * Notwithstanding the abundance of satire and witticism which the fact provokes, it is my impression that this same aristocracy will compare favorably with any other in the world for refinement, good taste, and general intelligence. These are matters of education, and to develop them the opportunity is required which money affords.   196     TO-DAY: A ROMANCE. Meantime, the young man whose place Bill had taken, did not improve. He was ordered on a sea voyage. The consequence was he resigned his position at Josiah Ab- bott's, and left the country to save his life. Bill said nothing, but worked all the harder. I have not told you the real cause of Bill Holt's com- ing to New York-Virginia Randall. You have Bill's secret in those two words. He loved that girl with all the force and ferocity of his nature. Virginia's very indiffer- ence only served to bind her slave the firmer. He loved her when he was a child; he would have tugged her sled till he dropped senseless then; and he would have been willing to be torn in pieces for her now! Virginia came first to the city. Bill followed. No one knew the secret that is now divulged in this history. To win her-that is what he strove for. The " squint- eyed skeleton," as Harry Ellsworth used to call him. The two seldom met. Bill did not presume to put himself in Virginia's way; but he watched for her, con- tent to get even a passing glance at her. "To hear even the rustling of her dress As it swept by him was some happiness." One day Bill met Virginia Randall, quite early in the morning, in a comparatively remote part of the town. She had gone on some little domestic errand, and felt annoyed to be encountered by any one she knew. Bill could not refrain from joining her. Virginia did not relish this at all. She departed from her amiable habit, and treated him very brusquely indeed. Bill for once became sentimental.   BILL HOLT'S SECRET.       197 "Do you remember," he exclaimed, 6 how I used to draw you up' the hill on my sled? ' Virginia was vexed. She did "not recollect what happened before she could talk!" Bill remonstrated. Virginia held her ground. "And you forget the day when Charley Graves ran off and left you in the snow!" cried Bill. - I don't know what you mean, I am sure," said Miss Randall. "I mean this," retorted Bill, angrily. When nobody else cared any thing about you, you were very glad to have me to wait on you." "I dare say," said the young lady, coolly. "I sup- pose I preferred you to nobody." 'You think you can serve me so now," cried Bill, violently. "To be sure I do," echoed Virginia, laughing. "If I wanted to be drawn up a hill, and there was no one else to do it, I would let you draw me." "You would, would you?" hissed Bill. "To be sure I would; why shouldn't I? Good morn- ing, Mr. Holt." She turned the corner, leaving him grinding his teeth with rage. For all that, Bill loved her the better for this very treatment. There was something in it which was fascinating to his intense nature, adding fuel to the flame. "Man is fire, woman is tow," says the proverb; "the devil comes and blows!"   I I   BOOK- III.   ALL the animal races have a goal which they may attain to. The tendency of each is fulfilled; entirely satisfied, it completes its course, lives out its life. Not so man. He is a yonider-sided being. His senses and his understanding he has in common with the brute. Reason belongs to him alone.  By means of that, he is made capable of a God and vir- tue, of the beautiful, the good, the sublime. His instinct is religion.- Jacobi.   B O O K     III. CHAPTER T. THE PROBLEM. LIFE'S problem is not in the Future, but in the Pres- ent. The great Mystery lies not in the Beyond, but at our door. Whatever comes hereafter is in continuance- an unavoidable sequence. We are uninformed as to the bourne, the country is an undiscovered one; what of that? It is ignorance only which obscures the way. The Present should make us tremble. For the Past we say, "Let the dead bury their dead."  For what is coming, "Let the Future resurrect itself." Here on the firm-set earth we enact the Mystery. Behold the problem. To follow pleasures and remain unselfish; to love money and not be grasping; to indulge the senses without becoming brutish; to enjoy power and not be a tyrant; to have, by golden circumstance, an ever-! lasting pleasure feast provided, which shall include every thing that delights the sense and charms the intellect; beauty, the song, the dance; scenes ever varied, a land- scape ever changing; books, the arts, society; all gath- ereld into one rich preparative to lure a human soul to 9   202     TO-DAY: A ROMANCE. mere enjoyment, and stamp on this great temptation: RENOUNCED! Or to fall in the depths of poverty, and preserve in- tegrity; to suffer fromyan's contumely, and repress the gall; to see the unwo'thy exalted, their sons and daugh- ters in luxury and ease, and not be envious; to labor wearily for only what sustains life in you and yours, and not repine; to be hungry in the midst of this world's affluence, and commit no crime; finally, to lie down and die, and not curse your fellow-man, or revile your Maker. Or, escaping both extremes, to engage industriously in your daily avocations and receive from them no taint; to labor for what perishes with the using, and lay up the true riches; to be an active, vigorous portion of the hu- manity which surrounds you, and feel that this is not your home; and wherever you go to carry deity and devil in one bosom, yet rejoice in the Lord. (/   "AW  OFFICE OF HORACE PULSIFER.      203 CHAPTER    II. THE LAW OPFICE O F HORACE PULSIFER. ToM CASTLETON has become an inmate of Mr. Pulsifer's house, and is established in his law office. What a change for the youngster. Sudden and sharp is the transition from the classic groves to the dens in Nassau street, where Horace Pulsifer presides, the genius of the locality. There was an immense business carried on there. Mr. Pulsifer had one partner, who took charge entirely of the attorney work, another who was a firstrate conveyancer, still another who acted as " out-door " man. These three shared moderately in the enormous receipts of the estab- lishment, and were proud to be connected with it. But the name only of the principal appeared-such was his humor-Horace Pulsifer. In addition to the three partners were at least half a dozen clerks. Some ,of these were law-students, some mere copyists. A large suite of rambling apartments was occupied by the firm. Each of the principals had a place to himself, so that whoever desired to consult either would be uninter- rupted.  One large room was taken up by the clerks. To the right, after passing by the various entrances and reach- ing quite to the end of the building, you came to the   204     TO-DAY: A ROMANCE. sanctum of the great lawyer. It was a capacious room, surrounded on all sides by books, which were piled in open cases quite to the ceiling. A large table stood in the middle of the apartment, and near it an immense arm-chair. From one side a door opened into a small consulting room. This was very private; and used only for special occasions. Unlike many first-class concerns of this kind, these offices wore neither a dusty nor dingy look. Cobwebs were not permitted to accumulate, nor was the paint al- lowed to go uncleaned. Not that it had the appearance of a new establishment; by no means. But the rooms were always well swept, the walls clean, the furniture sub- stantial, and every thing in the best condition. On entering the place, you felt at once that an im- mense amount of brain-work was going on in it. How mysteriously busy was one clerk, how pompously occupied another, how profoundly abstracted appeared a third, how hurriedly engaged a fourth; each displaying in these differ- ent exhibitions something of his own character, something, doubtless, of the character of his immediate occupation. A strange contrariety! A small, withered old man, with a shining bald head and large steel-bound spectacles on his nose, held a retired corner. His hand trembles as he smooths the paper and grasps the pen. What is his business? What is He doing?  That dried-up relic is a scrivener. He has been nothing but a scrivener for more than thirty years. To look at him, you would not feel willing to trust him to copy any thing requiring neatness and dispatch.   "AW  OFFICE OF HORACE P ULSIFER.     205 But examine one of his pages. How clear, how uniform, how elegant it is. You can scarcely believe it is not en- graved. How can that trembling hand move so accurately and evenly over each line and curve? You asked what he is doing. He is commencing to copy a "Last will and Testament." The draft has just been placed before him. Whose will? It is that of a millionaire. "In the name of God, Amen " Assured that he can carry no portion of his property along with him, he wishes to take advantage of the law's provisions, as far as is possible, to control it after he is gone. He has had a great many interviews with Mr. Pulsifer on this subject, wherein the rich man is told what he may do, and what the statute will not permit; wherein he follows his darling accumulations into the possession of the third generation, and where, since no entail is per- mitted, he is obliged reluctantly to take leave of the suc- cession. But the "Provided nevertheless,' the "In case that," the "Notwithstanding," which run through the document, shows how busy his mind was with what soon would not be his. Ashey, that is the name of the old scrivener, sat down to his daily task. He selects some appropriate paper, and commences: "In the name of God, Amen. I, Morris Gaskell--" The old man stopped. Morris Gaskell and he were schoolmates, afterwards clerks in the same store, where Ashey rose to be bookkeeper. Ashey married a poor   206     TO-DAY: A ROMfANCE. girl, whom he loved, Gaskell married a rich girl, whose money he loved. Ashey's wife died in a year, and from that time, the little ambition he ever had forsook him. Mr. Pulsifer, then a young lawyer, fell in with him, and engaged him to do occasional work. It ended in a perma- nent occupation. Gaskell went on most successfully. His wife also died; but at the end of a twelvemonth he mar- ried her sister, thus getting two cuts out of a large estate, instead of onie. I think he would have been ready to swallow a third, had Providence so decreed. "In the name of God, Amen!" Why, in the name of God, when so much of what is soon to be scattered, was got together in the devil's name, or with his help? Ashey paused. I dare say the vista of the past was thrown open, and he could look down it. "Is he going to die?" he muttered to himself. Then an idea came in his mind. Perhaps Gaskell had left him a legacy! Such things had happened. It was an odd fancy though, con- sidering who Gaskell was. The scrivener made a motion as if to look through the will. The discipline of thirty years restrained him. What had he to do with the contents of any paper? Nothing, but to copy them. So he settled himself to his work. "In the name of God, Amen. I, Morris Gaskell---" An odd idea struck the scrivener, and he stopped again. Suppose Gaskell and he should die the same minute, and step out together on the journey to the other side, would Gaskell have any advantage over him, Ashey? Some-   "AW OFFICE OF HORACE PULSIFER. 207 thing like a smile came over his parchment face, when he thought that Gaskell would have no advantage. The scrivener at this moment saw Mr. Pulsifer pass through the room. It recalled him to duty. Carefully he drew a large silver watch from his pocket; looking at it, he found he had lost five minutes! The work in the large room goes on. A far younger man than Ashey, but equally methodical in manner, is doing effective work between the living. "Know all men by these presents." So begins the recitation of a document, which will transfer by mortgage the last piece of property of the spendthrift, Hollis, to the clutches of the gripe-all Plumb. Here is a young man, unquestionably a law-student, who is copying an agreement. We can tell that by look- ing over his shoulder. "This agreement made, entered into, and concluded, the twenty-second day of September," &c. The paper will bind three partners together for five years. That is, if none of them die, and they do not quarrel, and do not fail in their business; three things that may happen to the very best houses. Nevertheless, may all proper success attend you, Messrs. Blake, Bullit & Co. Why should we not invoke it for you, as we glance at the heading of your articles? A "judgment!" What a startling word! Are we sure that we have read aright? It is true. A brisk, eager, enterprising- looking fellow is preparing it. Judgment for what? For sin? Assuredly. But of   208     TO-DAY: A ROMANCE. an earthly odor. I say sin. The sin of running in debt. One of the most horrible of great iniquities. Alas! that there could be no law against that. What next? The same ardent young man, who acts as if moved by a set of springs laid within him, running through legs and arms, quite into the brain, is preparing another paper. Dare you let me tell you what it is? It is an "ExE- CUTION!"How, swiftly it follows the judgment. Talk of the law's delay. Is not this rapid work? ". Execution!"It is a severe word, is it not? Wlhat in the world is the young man with the steel springs in his breast going to do with it? Why does he appear in such a hurry? Look! He seizes his hat, gathers up his papers, and is off like a shot. What will come of it? I will tell you. When Lucius Raymond goes home to dinner, he will find a suspiciouns- looking person seated in his hall; his wife frightened out of her wits; the little children crying, because they are afraid of the strange man, and the house generally in tribulation. Raymond is stunned. He knew some such thing was coming, but he hoped to " fix " it. He had no thought it would be so sudden and swift. [He little understood the discipline of Horace Pulsi- fer's office.] In fact, he had as good as arranged for the money that very day. Now, how shall he manage to get that man out of the house? What shall he say. to his wife? He takes the individual aside. He assures him it is " all a mis-   "AW  OFFICE OF HORACE PULSIFER.       209     take." The matter will be arranged to-morrow morning. He accompanies his observations with a five-dollar note thrust carelessly in the other's hand, as he remarks quietly, he does not wish to put him to the trouble of coming there for nothing. The man answers politely. He tells Raymond he knew it cust be a mistake. His duty, however, had to be per- formed. Of course, he did not wish to incommode any gentleman. He would call again the next day. Raymond is moody and abstracted all the evening. The prattle of his children goes like a knife to his heart. He is thinking of what he shall do the next day. Suppos- ing he cannot arrange for the money? The possibility of failure makes his heart beat thick. In the night his wife is wakened by some unnatural noise. It is only her hus- band moaning in his sleep. Morning comes, the day passes, but the terrible EXE. cUTION is not settled. Raymond finds it is not so immedi- ately terrible as he expected; that is, so long as his five- dollar notes last. The mysterious messenger no longer comes to the house. Raymond waits on him with the five-dollar persuader. Each time he makes a new excuse. The polite official accepts it with a confiding smile. He is willing the document should run on so forever! In ten days Raymond finds the money. He has paid fifty dollars for forbearance, and a large sum for sheriff's fees, and has a short lease again into the future. But look you on this side. A young man, apparently not much past twenty, is seated at one extremity of the room.   210     TO-DAY: A ROMANCE. Evidently he does not belong to the department. He is waiting for something. And while waiting, he looks at every thing with an interested gaze. First at the little, bald old man bound in parchment, then at the go-ahead fellow with the steel springs, afterwards at the others. But he comes back to the two extremes-it is so like youth to do so. The old one in parchment and the young one in steel fascinate him by their (to him) hideous repulsiveness. Hee is fresh, hopeful, trustful, believing. What are they? The whole atmosphere chills him. Is this to be a lawyer? Is this 'C law business?" NSow Tom Castleton's idea (for it is our friend Tom, who is waiting by appointment to see Mr. Pulsifer, and be assigned to duty) I say, Tom Castleton's idea of a lawyer was that of a modern knight, whose life is spent in re- dressing the wrongs of the injured, and resisting for the weak and defenceless the attacks of the strong and un- scrupulous. He could not understand what it was that was going on so industriously around him. He could only feel that the atmosphere was hateful to him. It was the contact of the unwitting and unsuspicious with hard and subtle ex- perience. Here Tom's nature was manifest. The collision was more than he could endure. Had it been Alf du Barry who was thus introduced, he would have enjoyed the pic- ture ' first-rate," and would have attempted a joke with some of the clerks, no matter how busy they were. Tom was made of different material, and now comes the tension on him.   "AW  OFFICE OF HORACES PULSrIER.       2" I do not know how long he could have stood it. Mr. Pulsifer at this moment came in, and the scene changed. Changed, how  quickly! Just the entrance of that man among these workers on paper dissipated all the un- happy thoughts and misgivings Tom had begun to indulge in, swept away the mists, and left the atmosphere clear. One glance at Tom's face told the lawyer what had been passing in his mind. He greeted him  pleasantly. "You are before the hour," he said. "It is better so than to be behind, but exactness is better than either." Tom followed Mr. Pulsifer along the various passages till he came to his own room. The large rows of books made him feel at home, and the air of the apartment re- assured him; so much was it in contrast with the one he had left. Yet here originated all that moved and con- trolled the entire legal machinery of the place! This was very extensive, varied, and complicated, for the leading commercial houses sought Pulsifer's advice; so did the heads of many banking institutions, and other corporations. Rich men and women came to him to make their investments secure, to have their wills drawn, to act as trustee, and so forth. Family difficulties of the most delicate kind were brought before him for advice or friendly arbitrament, or unhappy litigation. The wretched man who had been tempted by a terrible stress of adver- sity to violate law as well as right, sought out Horace Pulsifer; not to shield him by legal trick, but to use his influence with his adversaries, and incline them to modera- tion, or to present legally the extenuating circumstances of the case.   212     TO-DAY: A ROMANCE. Among his clients were many ladies. Rich young widows in the most expensive crape and bombazine came in softly to speak of their " irreparable loss " and shed a tear, sob, and-obtain a check for a few thousand dollars from their good friend the trustee. Some time later, the bombazine is changed to the finest silk, trimmed very deeply, however, with the crape, but the heavy black veil is still thick as ever. The sobs and tears begin to disappear, but the amount of money drawn in- creases. By-and-by comes something less than "half- mourning; "-first purple, then gray-smiles abound, a handsome, new " portemonnaie" is produced where the check is placed; a slight coquetry begins to peep out, even toward the grim lawyer. At last the two years are up (possibly thirty months, according to circumstances, if the estate is very large it should be thirty months), and our young widow enters radiant and radiating. What a trans- formation! She is arrayed in the choicest, brightest col- ors; not of the rainbow, but of the season. She comes in patronizing and magnificent. She rallies the lawyer on his dreary office, she complains of high prices and of the scarcity of money. Could not the next quarterly payment be anticipated, as she has to furnish her house entirely new. She calls MSr. Pulsifer "a cruel, severe creature," for not assenting, laughs at his scruples, and sweeps out of the room, oh how charmingly. The poor widow comes also to Horace Pulsifer. Her husband was his client. He was supposed to be a man of wealth, but he leaves nothing. The lawyer is no longer grim. He does all he can to comfort and to aid. He dis-   "AW  OFLICE OP HORACE PUTLSIFER. 213 dains a fee, and freely gives his. time and his influence to save something from the wreck. Add to these various characters and scenes the per- petual detail which necessarily attached to them, without any intermission, and all of which were controlled by that one brain, and you may understand, to some degree, what were the labors of Horace Pulsifer,   214     TO-DAY; A ROMANCE. CHAPTER   III. IN THE HARINESS. MR. PULSIFER sat several minutes, his head resting on his hand, as if in profound thought. Tom had taken a seat at his request, quite near him. What caused the lawyer to pause, as if hesitating what to do? Why, at the last moment, did he appear irresolute? Looking into Tom's open, earnest, unsuspicious face, he felt a guilty qualm come over him, when he thought how soon that trustful look would disappear, disappear never to return; disappear to be replaced by one of cal- culation and acuteness; might it not be of craft and sub- tlety? The lawyer's brain was beginning to teem with a crowd of accusing fancies, when by a sudden effort he raised his head, passed his hand rapidly over his face, ejaculating, "Nonsense," loud enough for Tom to hear him, who began to regard the scene with wonder. A smile illumined Mr. Pulsifer's face; a smile so win- ning and genial that no trace of the law remained. "I was thinking," he said in a cheerful tone, quite at variance with the announcement he was making, "how bitterly you are to be disappointed." Tom changed color a little, but said nothing.   IN THE HARNESS.         215 "Had some one been kind enough or judicious enough," continued Mr. Pulsifer, "to tell me the same thing on the day I first entered a law office, it would have saved me a world of wretchedness for ever so long. "It is not only with the profession of the law that the first step disappoints," continued Mr. Pulsifer. "It is the same in a greater or less degree with theology and with medicine. Distance is an Enchanter. When you come practically to handle the edifice reared by the imagination, it dissolves. In its place, if we proceed worthily, a sub- stantial work is created, with strong and deep foundations. There certainly should be no higher aim than that of call- ing sinners to repentance. But had you entered a theo- logical school, your soul would have sickened over the metaphysics of salvation, and in studying the controversies of different sects, and in arming yourself cap-a-pie in de- fence of your own persuasion. As a medical student, you would have been astounded to find how helpless you are, where Nature fails to lend her aid; and how long and toilsome is the labor, before you dare predict the effect of any medicine. Greater still, I dare say, is the revulsion of an ardent mind on commencing the practical part (where all ought to begin) of our profession. I tell you this to save you a heart-ache when you go home to-night, and for months to come. I shall put you into the most disagreeable part of the practice-ordinary attorney work, with the Code to study. Afterward, when you are better prepared for it, I shall give you elementary law. You will be for some time disgusted, but you must bave faith in me. I will carry you through securely, if you do. I   216     TO-DAY: A ROMANCE  wish you to spend a year in this way. God forbid you should love that sort of thing, but you have thoroughly to comprehend it. "And recollect this," continued the lawyer, " you can- not live an INNOCENT in the world. Our terrible inherit- ance precludes that, and we are forced to accept it. Your father has told you, I presume, that I advised him to place you here. I want you to promise me this. Let me know how you feel. Learn to talk with me as you would with one of your own years. Come, I will begin the course with you over again. Report to me the whole story this evening. Tell me just how every thing strikes you. It was to bring this about," he continued, ' that I wished you to be in my house. I have no son, no child; "--this was said in a softened tone--"I have no idea of robbing my good friends by carrying you off. It is better for you to live away from home, and it is better for me that I should have you in my house," concluded the lawyer play- fully. a We will see what we shall make of ourselves." He touched a bell. "Ask Mr. Harrington to step here"Mr. Harrington was the attorney of the establish- ment. He came in-a keen-looking, bright-eyed man of five-and-thirty, easy, ready, vivacious. ' Mr. Harrington, you know young Mr. Castleton, son of Dr. Castleton. He begins with us to-day, and, as I' mentioned to you yesterday, goes into your department. NWe must try and make a good lawyer of him." Nothing was pleasanter than the reply of the attorney. Tom followed him out through the different exits, and came again to the room of abominations. It was like   IN THE  HARNESS.          217 being driven from  Paradise into Pandemonium; but Mr. Pulsifer's words had sunk into his heart, and he deter- mined to bear up stoutly. He was introduced to the head clerk, and left to be- come  acquainted with the rest of the office at his leisure. A  table, on which was placed a double row    of pigeon holes, appeared to have been already arranged for his occupancy.  Mr. Harrington had withdrawn almost imme- diately, and Stringer, the head clerk, asking Tom    some- thing about his handwriting, put some blanks before him and requested him to fill them  in, according to the origi- nals, which he gave him.   The first paper was short, and ran as follows: "Supreme Court, County of New York. Charles Grant, plaintiff; against James Smith, defendant. "To the defendant. ' You are hereby summoned and required to answer the complaint in this action, which is filed in the office of the Clerk of the City and County of New York at the City Hall in the City of New York, and to serve a copy of your answer to the said complaint on the subscriber at his office, No. - Nassau street, in said city, within twenty days after service of this summons on you and a copy of said complaint, exclusive c" the day of such service. And if you fail to answer the said complaint within the time aforesaid, the plaintiff in this action will take judgment against you for the sum of seven hundred and thirty-six dollars and fifty-two cents with interest from the third day of February, 18-, besides the costs and disbursements of this action. Dated September 25, 18-. Horace Pulsi- fcr, plaintiff's attorney." Tom, who wrote a very respectable hand, had finished the "Summons," and made considerable progress in the "complaint" which followed, when he fell to speculating 10   218     TO-DAY: A ROMANCE. as to its contents, and about the fortunes of the unfortu- nate James Smith, and how this sort of procedure was going to affect him, and various other cogitations pro- duced by his employment. In so doing, he lost sight of his work, but was recalled to it by Stringer, the head clerk, asking him if he had finished. Tozn turned red at the implied censure, and commenced again. This time he kept his wits about him and con- cluded his task. This done, and the papers duly examined, Stringer put the Code in Tom's hand, open to the chapter on ' Issuing of a summons," and in a mildly patronizing way, advised Tom to read up on it. Tom undertook to do so. It was about as intelligible to him as if it had been in Coptic, but he did his best to comprehend it. The day was at last brought to a close, and flushed and fevered by his strange occupation, he left the office. The air was very grateful to him, as he started slowly to walk up-town.   AN INTERRUPTION.         219 CHAPTER   IV. kAN INTE RRUPTION. WHVEN Tom left Mr. Pulsifer's room to take his place in the office, the latter sat very still for a few minutes. "I wonder "-so ran his thoughts-" if I am playing the vampyre with that young man; sucking his fresh, glowing nature to replenish my long-used mechanism. No, no, we shall both be the better. I will get back my youth. He shall help me to it, and I will help him to- what? Why, to avoid the rock I nearly split on." Here a young man entered. "Perhaps you forgot Mrs. Delaine is waiting," he said timidly. "Why do you interrupt me?" returned the lawyer, severely. "The lady insisted, sir, that the gentleman who was with you had gone out, and she asked me if I would step in and ascertain." "I am still engaged," was the reply, and the messenger disappeared. The lawyer walked up and down the room for five minutes. Then taking up a card and glancing at it,' he touched the bell and ordered the lady to be ushered in. A rustling of silks was presently heard, and a soft   220     TO-DAY: A ROMANCE. current of air insensibly perfumed, swept gently in ad- vance of the new comer. It was the fascinating and fashionable Mrs. Delaine. C I declare it is abominable, the way you treat ladies who are forced to come and see you! I have been waiting at least an hour," and with this exordium the lady took a seat with the freedom of an old acquaintance. "Rigid rules here, you know. Outside of our barriers we are at your mercy; here we recognize neither age nor sex," replied Mr. Pulsifer pleasantly. "I should think not. What could you be doing with that handsome youn:g man? I hope he is not in any trouble." "He? Oh no, not yet; but he soon will be. He is just entering my office as a law- student." ' What a pity! I have not seen a face that pleased me so much for a long time." "I quite agree with you, he has a fine countenance," said the lawyer, dryly. "But you don't seem inclined to indulge my curiosity." "I did not know you had any. What do you wish me to tell you?" "Oh! nothing," said the lady pettishy; "nothing at all." The lawyer settled himself into a professional attitude. " Oh, I cannot talk with you in such a barn of a room as this. Those fierce-looking law books always frighten me." She rose and walked toward the little private consult-   & an J X ^ * X% JL Xi v *X * L AJ JL ing-room. Mr. Pulsifer followed. The conference lasted an hour. When the lady left the place she passed quite to the top of the staircase, then turning, she approached the clerks' room, opened the door, entered, and looked quietly around. Her eyes soon fell on Tom Castleton, who was deep in the mysteries of the " issuing of a summons." Stringer, the head clerk, rushed forward. "I think I left a veil in Mr. Pulsifer's room, will you have the kindness to inquire?" Stringer ran off to see, and Mrs. Delaine remained standing, hoping Tom would raise his eyes, but he did not. She walked carelessly into the centre, and thus succeeded in attracting his attention. One glance, quite accidental, she turned on Tom, who had now looked up, then she walked slowly in the other direction, and stood awaiting Stringer. The search proved unsuccessful, but her object was accomplished. She knew very well she had the veil in her pocket; but she smiled bewitchingly on Stringer, and cast an indescribable glance in the direction of Tom, who was busy again at his work, and whose indifference added to her determination to know more of him. When Tom  and Mr. Pulsifer met that evening, the former was asked very particularly what he had been doing. Tom told him.  By degrees he found himself talking familiarly with his principal. All that was sunny and genial in. the lawyer's nature seemed to overflow toward his pupil. He tempted him to ask questions. He explained much that seemed mysterious in the petty work of the day. b   222     TO-DAY: A ROMANCE. By degrees, he spoke of the great world around them, and Tom was fascinated. Here was a man who could discourse as learnedly as a professor, and as playfully as a schoolboy; who appeared to know every thing. And when he talked about the world, of life, of the shifting currents and eddys, of hopes and wishes, of youth and its desires, of all that constitutes the attainable and that interests man's heart, Tom thought no priest was ever half so eloquent. In this way the two progressed day by day and month by month into another year. It proved a fair exchange between them. For Pulsifer it did not come too late. He was changing again from a machine into being. The ice around his soul dissolved. There came a new birth, while he still had the vigor and wisdom of his years intact to help him to enjoy. And Tom casting off the slough which had so long encumbered him, stood forth bright in hope, clear in faith, earnest as a god! He had, by Pulsifer's discreet associa- tion, achieved the change from youth to man without staining his nature. He had weathered the stormy cape where so many are wrecked, and rode triumphant on the open sea. This was not the work of a few weeks, or even months. Neither was it accomplished, except through doubts and misgivings, and much mental suffering. "And ye shall be as gods knowing good and evil," said the snake. The creature used a terrible truth, to tempt our common mother. To know good, ah, that is indeed beautiful. To know evil! What wonder that   AN INTERRUPTION.         223 Pulsifer shrank from placing IT before his youthful com- panion. To know both good and evil with the scioter belongs to man only. To neither angel nor fiend, mejuidce, is given this power. Man alone shares it with Deity. We leave Tom Castleton unconscious that bright eyes glance on him with passionate interest, and that a bold, daring, unscrupulous woman has resolved he shall be hers.   224     TO-DAY: A ROMANCE. CHAPTER V. DU BAlRRY IX EUROPE. IT is time to look after Alf Du Barry. We left that young gentleman at Schweinfurth, where ha had settled himself for a period, and was about to pro- ceed in a most assiduous manner to acquire German. He vas quite successful. Necessity is a great help to the tongues. It was not long before Alf could enter the gymnasium, ambitious, at least, to not be behind Tom. The correspondence of these young fellows, if given here, would present much more accurately than I can describe what they were doing during the four or five years I am nbridging over. Whatever changes took place in the habits or feelings of either, it is certain that this correspondence was kept up with regularity on both sides. Interesting as it might prove, I cannot yield space for it in this history. It is not of sufficient importance. I have their letters neatly filed in volume form, and should any of my readers care to peruse them, I will afford the opportunity. I confess they made me feel melancholy the first time I looked them over. The change in feelings, opinions, and general habits which Alf under-   DU BARRY IN EUROPE.        225 went is strikingly evident. While Tom exhibited a con- tinued advance in the right direction. The letter we presented in a previous chapter, the first which Alf wrote after his settling down at Schweinfurth, was almost the last which had the free, natural ring of unstudied expression. By degrees a- certain stiffness was manifest. The letters became more like compositions. They were quite as long as ever, but not half so interest- ing. They abounded in descriptions which Tom might as readily have perused in a guide-book. After a while, a new element began to creep in; some- thing which indicated a mind unsettled; loosed from its moorings. Occasional allusions would be made, which showed that Alf s morals were not in as good repair as when he left home. As he advanced in his course his communications became more philosophical, mystical, I may say nonsensical. His object seemed to be to amaze his friend by the superiority of his acquisitions. He wrote on subjects the most sacred with a boldness and flippancy and a disregard of opinion, which to Tom seemed irreverent. But I must not be too severe with these epistles, they were student's letters, and we know how they like, at a certain period, to mount the stilts. That Alf, was industrious, no one could doubt. He began to overwhelm Tom with a new nomenclature. He discoursed of Kant and Fichte, Jacob Boehme and Hegel. *     He talked of " high art," and the necessity of " freedom from forms." Some of his letters were evidently a resume of the lectures he had been listening to, and were filled 10o   226     TO-DAY: A ROMANCE. with talk of the "absolute idea,) the " subjective spirit," the "Divine thought of the universe," the " cognitive faculty," and so on. Tom was not behind in replying, or very much imposed on by Alf's accumulations. He was at first, perhaps, a little flustered by these high-sounding words, but he began to get accustomed to them, and to comprehend, when translated into ordinary English, that they were simple enough. he would reply in good order, and rally his "German " friend on his new theories, which led to proper responses, very interesting to the two concerned, and, I imagine, to-no one else. There was a slight strain of superiority running through Alf's letters, that is, so far as assuming that his opportunitites were greatly superior to Tom's. But on this head Tom held his own with spirit. There was an Indian in his class at Dartmouth; and on one occasion, to show his peculiar appreciation of a long, metaphysical letter from Alf, Tom requested his Indian friend to write an epistle for him in Choctaw, which he subscribed and dispatched to Alf by post. In this way the correspondence was not allowed to flag. One thing was specially gratifying. Alf throughout expressed always a preference for his own country. He- looked forward with eagerness to the period of his return. He longed once more to " breathe the air of true freedom." No one could a appreciate the political liberty we enjoyed, till he had witnessed the bondage of the old world." Tom was in raptures at this. But he did not compre- hend it was mere sentimentality in Alf. The cant of the   DU BARRY IN EUROPE.        227 schools, in fact. That really he had never given a dozen consecutive thoughts to the subject. Tom would write back, congratulating Alf on enter- taining such glorious views, and telling him how much he counted on his return, so as to put in practice jointly, and with activity, new schemes for the improvement of man- kind! So hopeful and grandiloquent is youth! Thus much for the outside of Alf's foreign life. What really was he doing? How progressed his being? To what was it devoted?   228     TO-DAY: A ROMANCE. CHAPTER   VIL SCENE?A I N TIN G. THE traveller, who may be attracted by the charms of scenery and the curiosities of nature to be encountered in what is called the Francofian Switzerland, if he traverse it ill a southerly direction from Bomnberg, will after a couple of days (unless tempted by the capital trout-fishing to linger at different points), reach one of the loveliest and one of the most remarkable little valleys in the world. I know not if it has a name. Its extent is possibly five miles. Through it runs a small stream, at points com- pletely hedged in by mountains of rock piled up, at least five hundred feet on each side, leaving only room for the passage of the rivulet. Presently it emerges into a wider area, where the verdure of the interval is luxuriant, the grass like velvet, while the growth of fine large trees furnishes shade for the pedestrian. At the widest point of this valley, which is possibly three fourths of a mile, you reach the romantic village of T-. The mountains of rock continue to hedge you in, and threaten, toppling, to fall and crush the little place below. But the herds graze peacefully under the crags, and the goats climb far up the precipice and nibble the sweet herbs which scantily grow there   SCENE PAINTING.         229 The scene in winter is one of terrible grandeur; in the months of summer it is indescribably beautiful, relieving, one would think, from care the most oppressed, and turn- ing the thoughts of the most selfish and calculating for a time, at least, to the charms of nature and seclusion. Nothing could intrude here, one would suppose, which is not simple and innocent. The employments of the inhabi- tants are pastoral, their lives quiet and uneventful, their amusements gay, vivacious, and inoffensive. Their dress primitive and picturesque. One fine afternoon, the first week in July, a young man might be seen emerging from the narrow defile which lies at the north of the little village. He walked on with a light, vigorous step, till he came quite outside the rocky battlements, where the sight of the picturesque valley burst suddenly on him. He stopped, as if in amazement, took off his hat-a Bavarian slouch- and stood looking around him in intense admiration. This young man was tall, finely formed, with long, luxuriant dark hair, black eyes, and a handsome face, well browned by exposure to the weather. He indulged in a fill growth of beard, whiskers, and mustaches, which were not trimmed, but allowed to grow inculte. He had on a travelling suit of mixed cloth moderately worn. It would not be easy, looking at him as he stood, to decide on his nationality. He was too trim and graceful for a German, too careless in person for a Frenchman, and generally not at all made up like an Englishman. It was our friend Alf Du Barry. In his third year abroad he had finished at the gym- *                     A   =z U     TO-DAY: A ROMANCE. nasium, and was now on his Danberf[ften, before settling at a university. His next point (where his luggage awaited him) was Nuremburg. He had to pass this valley, climb by a pre- cipitous path to the top of the mountain, where he would strike a carriage-road, which would, after a few hours, bring him to a railway station. I do not think you would have known Alf without this introduction; so completely had he changed from the youth who bid Clara adieu that fine afternoon with so much spirit, and started the next day on the steamer. Notwithstanding an appearance of carelessness in per' son and dress, on closer inspection, you would perceive that both had been specially attended to. His suit, as I have intimated, though somewhat worn, was of a better fabric than that usually employed for a travelling costume. The style was of the latest cut. His hat, while in the fashion of the country, was made of a fine material. And if hair and beard were allowed to grow, apparently, in nature's own mode, an observer could readily see that not a little painstaking was required to preserve the arrange- ment.  For his face, it was much chftged. It certainly bore token of the gentleman. But if you carefully examined it, you could perceive alreadr the lines of selfishness com- mencing faintly to mark it. Signs also of one accustomed to put little restraint on his wishes, and of self-sufficiency and importance, were beginning to appear. Further, there was a romantic bearing about our young gentleman,   bUI-LN Jf A1NNXIJNr.*.'     01 so unlike the Alf we used to know, that it alone would make you fail to recognize him. I will frankly tell you, indeed you know it to be so, that this new element was not a natural one. It came from a very constant thinking about himself and his ap- pearance. He wore his romance precisely as he did his clothing, his hair and beard and the bunch of charms and seals and trinkets at his vest. Absolutely his own master, with no care for future provision, surrounded by persons, not of the first class, who admired and praised him; the wonder is the lad had not done what would have been worse-gone to the bad directly. There was no evidence here of overt acts. At least, we have not as yet discovered any. Alf was no worse than most young fellows at one-and-twenty, he certainly was better than very many. He had not cultivated the Byron mood, as many of his age used to do, for he was out of that range; he had patronizediltess misanthropic, a more philosophic sentimentality. He had read the Sor- rows of Werther, which was not at all to his taste. The Elective Affinities and Wilhelm Meister pleased him im- mensely, and he fairly revelled in Faust. He had made a compound of himself from several favorite characters, for his own special gratification, and he stood here at the entrance of this happy valley, for a time really admiring the scene. Such genuine moments were rare for him, and he seemed anxious to prolong them. At length he turned to regard a rough stone-monument, which told how Gottleib   232     TO-DAY: A ROMANCE. Sturm lost his life at this exact point, by the falling of a- mass of rock on his head. Alf looked up, and saw directly above him a crag which threatened to tumble. He stepped hastily to the other side of the entrance, and stopped before a rude image of the CHRIST on the cross, carved in wood, I do not know precisely what moved him, but he took out his pencil and began to sketch the figure. The work finished, Alf resumed his haversack and alpenstock, which had been laid aside, and proceeded slowly on his way. Did any mysterious agency give him warning of what was immediately before him? Is there not something in the experience of us all to warrant the idea that the shadow of a coming event is cast before and around us? It is certain that Alf's elastic step had deserted him. He walked on with a tardy and irresolute gait toward the village, and although he had eaten nothing since his early breakfast, and was hungry enough, his pace became slower and slower as he approached the place. As he came up, an interesting scene presented itself. From the little church issued a number of young men and maidens dressed in their Sunday habits, the girls wearing garlands of flowers, the young fellows having their hats profusely decorated. It was evident what occasion they were celebrating. It was a village wedding, a scene worthy the pencil of Teniers. Presently the " happy pair" appeared, and all repaired to the green. The picture was a charming one, but it was not new to Alf. Its sudden presentation, however, took him by sur-   SCENE PAINTING.         233 prise, and he followed the company to the spot where the merry-making was held. At first he escaped observation, so entirely were they engaged; but presently a young girl happened to spy the stranger, and the discovery was passed to another and another, until every one was aware of his presence. As the young people passed round in the dance, or stood waiting their turn, they naturally cast their eyes on Alf. This was particularly the case with the maidens, who were pleased by the novelty, and to whom the un- expected presence of a young man, handsome, attractive, and entirely beyond their own humble sphere, whose manner was somewhat foreign and very romantic, became a source of much excitement. Who could he be? Where did he come from? Why was he there? Alf enjoyed this immensely. He assumed attitudes which he, thought best calculated to deepen the interest which was surrounding him, and threw into his counte- nance an expression of utter insensibility to the scene. 8^i At last, after some whispering and consultation on the part of several of the company, in which the new-married ones took part, one of the young men approached Alf with a bashful and rather awkward air, and asked "If the gentleman would not join the dance?" Alf received the proposition with becoming dignity, but, nevertheless, assented. He had, when carefully scru- tinizing the girls as they swept by, observed one who was without question like himself, a stranger. She was not dressed in the style of a peasant, which, in fact, has re- -   234     TO-DAY: A ROMANCE. mained unchanged for centuries, but wore a simple sum- mer-robe of modern cut, and instead of the large garland on her head, her hair was ornamented with two bunches of flowers, tastefully arranged. She was a blonde, slight, hardly of medium stature, with a fresh, clear complexion, full blue eyes, and light- brown hair. Her movements were graceful, but not ani- mated. Indeed, she did not appear much interested in what was going on, having rather the air of one who by some chance had been present at this particular time, and whose duty it was to join in the scene. With the bride, how- ever, she seemed to be well acquainted, for she would frequently stop to exchange a word with her, and then resume her place among the dancers. These little circumstances Alf had made himself master of while standing there, playing the unconscious and in- different spectator. On her part, the handsome blonde, who could not have been more than sixteen or seventeen, had not only become aware of Alf's presence, but began to feel a peculiar inter- est in the unknown. And no wonder. The sudden apparition of our hero on the stage, his traveled look, his elegant, though careless appearance, his indifferent regard of whatever was passing, were certainly calculated to attract and fascinate any girl who should witness them. Besides, the handsome blonde was just a little piqued that of all the company, Alf did not seem to have noticed her. You see how adroitly he had made his observations, and how well he calculated on the effect of his strategy.   SCENE PAINTING.         235 His companion in the dance (which was a species of waltz long in vogue with the Bavarian peasants, and which Alf had learned to perfection) was a stout, rosy-cheeked girl, regarded as a great beauty by the young men, and who seemed very desirous to please her partner. She told him, unasked, about the wedding. She called his atten- tion to the most important personages present, especially to the principal herdsman, who was the bride's father, and made a generous show of pointing out all the prettiest girls, descanting largely on their qualities. Every one of which, you may be sure, Alf had already fully noticed. Still no mention was made of the blonde. Did the peasant girl feel envious of the fair-haired stranger, that she passed her in the enumeration? Alf expected, cer- tainly, that she would have told him about her, and was much disappointed that she did not. But finally, seeing there was no chance of learning in any other way, he alluded indirectly to her presence. "She only came yesterday. She is related, in some way, to the bride. She is from Nuremberg." This was all she could tell him. They were standing near the blonde, and Alf did his best, by looking the other way, to prevent a suspicion that she was the subject of remark. Meantime the " bachelor" of Alf's partner began to be restive. She had been whisked away from him and bestowed on the handsome foreigner, much to his disgust, and he noted that their manner was growing more and more confidential. Alf was doing his best to make himself agreeable, and what is more, was succeeding very fast. L s   w   r   236     TO-DAY: A ROMANCE. There was soon further whispering with the bride, then the blonde was called into the consultation, who seemed to oppose something that was said to her, for she shook her head, but not very decidedly. The upshot was, the same awkward young man, who, no doubt, was a sort of master of ceremonies, proposed to Alf to give him another intro- duction. The latter accepted with becoming dignity, a good deal to the regret, I think, of his partner. He gave her a parting smile and a tender look, and was led up to the fair blonde. The judgment Alf had formed of her from his previous inspection was more than confirmed when they came to speak together. She was no peasant, but a well-educated, accomplished, young girl. She received Alf's salute with politeness, but with a good deal of reserve. Indeed, so much did she appear the lady (I speak in the conventional sense) that Alf felt it proper to give his name, and say who he was, and by what chance he was present. This led to a corresponding confidence on the part of the blonde. Her name was Charlotte Mayer. She was, as Alf had already been told, from Nuremberg. She was not, however, related to the bride. She had spent, when a child, considerable time in the valley, where her father placed her for her health. A strong attachment was in this way formed between her and the young person, at whose father's house she used to stay. This accounted for her presence at the wedding. After dancing for some time, Alf and his companion took a seat on a large fragment of rook, a little distance from the party, and were soon in close conversation.   ;I SCENE PAINTING.              237 Alf told about his own home in America, and how he was a solitary being in the world, having neither father nor mother living, only one sister. Then he gave some account of his coming to Europe, and for what. He learned, in return, that Charlotte's father was a master-printer in Nuremberg. Her mother was dead, she had neither brother nor sister. She had evidently been educated considerably beyond the station in which she was born, and it was some time before Alf could reconcile him- self to the fact that she was not a " ladye of high degree." He soon ceased to think of it, so much was he attracted by the charms of his new-acquaintance. He recalled Clara Dighy, and in his mind compared his companion with her. There was a hauteur, almost a hardness in Clara's manner at times, greatly in contrast with the soft, yielding, gentle nature of the one who now sat by his side. Alf felt a delicious glow steal over him, such as he never before experienced, as the conversation continued. His tact and self-consciousness did not, however, desert him. He threw into his manner all those little peculiari- ties which are calculated to interest a young girl, and pro- duce the feeling that there is something in common be- tween them. He went back again to his "American life," he gave descriptions, he talked of his school-days. He alluded to the long period he still expected to remain in Europe [Did the handsome blonde hear this with satisfac- tion?], then changing the subject, he inquired about her- self, was she still at school, what now most interested her, and the like. It appeared, Charlotte's mother had died in her infancy.   238     TO-DAY: A ROMANCE. She had been brought up as her father's pet and com- panion. He it was who had taken such pains with his "Iittle girl." She was still engaged in her education. So was Alf in his. Here was something else in common. The two, so unexpectedly thrown together, were grow- ing more and more confidential, as the company became merrier and noisier. Time passed unheeded, or if its lapse was thought of, it was with a regret that the day was beginning to fade. In the midst of something very interesting, Charlotte happened to look up and perceived they were beginning to attract attention by their long tete--tete. She rose quickly, and blushing as she spoke, she said, "' It is time to rejoin the company." "And it is time for me to be on my way to - ." "To - -" exclaimed Charlotte. Do you know how far it is from here?" "Perfectly well," replied Alf. ' Then you certainly do not expect to reach the place before dark?" Alf looked at his watch, and expressed great surprise, that it was so late. "You cannot think of leaving to-night," exclaimed the bride, who advanced to meet them. "There is no spot you can stop by the way. The gentleman must remain, must he not?" she continued, looking at Charlotte. "If there is no alternative, I suppose he will be forced to do so," answered her friend, quite seriously. Alf allowed himself to be persuaded by the bride and her father, who had joined them. Charlotte said not a   SCENE PAINTING.         239 word. Her heart beat quick, when the handsome young man, who had appeared to be so much interested in her, spoke of proceeding on his journey, as a matter entirely of course, and that, too, after such a long conversation, wherein so much was said that partook of mutual confi- dences; proceeding without a word, beyond polite thanks and a courteous adieu. It was a relief (alas, she was conscious of it) when it was decided that Alf would stay. tie was to be a guest under the same roof with her. Still our little maiden was maidenly. Her pride had taken the alarm. Her manner toward Alf insensibly changed. The charming moonlight evening, which he hoped to enjoy, was denied him. Char- lotte declined a walk. She was fatigued. Alf had to enter into general conversation, which was to him very stupid. Charlotte was silent. At length it was time to retire. "I will not quit her so, if I have to make an excuse to stay another day," muttered Alf to himself. He slept soundly, and rose with the sun, and walked out to view the magnificent scenery which surrounded him. Charlotte saw him from her window. She had slept very little. Her mind was filled with tumultuous images, confused, painful, ecstatic. Love symptoms were new to her, and she wondered what was the cause of so much agitation. She sat and watched Alf as he walked away, watched him every step he took, and saw him returning, with a sense of delight she could not repress. I .'    240     TO-DAY: A ROMANCE. He stopped and sat down on the rock where they both sat together the previous day. Charlotte could not resist the impulse of stepping to the door. Alf saw her, and hastened toward her. Insensibly, their steps were turned to the rock again. They were soon seated side by side, just as before. It takes but little to entertain two in their mood. Breakfast was announced while they still sat there. Alf was on his way to Nuremberg. Charlotte herself was to return home the following day. She gave him her father's address, and when they rose to go in the house, she knew they were to meet again, and soon. The day was glorious. The happy valley lay em. bosomed among mountains, crags, and rocky precipices, peaceful and very still; a symbol of hearts unstirred by ambition, and unholy passions, and the world's strife. Over rock and through the defile Alf Du Barry took his way. Had he come upon the scene a friend, bringing happi- ness to an innocent and loving soul, or, prowling like the wolf, did he hope to snatch away the tender lamb?   MSS CLARA DIGBY AND HER LOVER. 241 CHAPTER   VII. q i             , i -- MSS CLARA DIGBY AND HER LOVEE. cluding what is termed accomplishments. You may be sure that moral culture was not neglected, or any religious duty. In fact, every thing had been done and guarded against to make Clara as near perfect as possible. We have seen with what zest, the school-mistress under- took this; and how it seemed to solace her for previous disappointments. She was entirely successful. No one excelled Clara in scholarship; in music she had few equals; she took readily to the tongues; she was abso- lutely well-bred, and she was conscientious. Yet you tell me you are not content with these state- ments. They are comprehensive enough, but they give you no idea what sort of a girl Miss Dighy really is. What I say conveys a mere platitude. If Clara Dighy has reached perfection, why there let her' be. We want to hear nothing more of her. She is finished. Let her alone. We prefer you should tell us something about Virginia Randall, or Miss Ferris, or even that unscrupulous beauty who is in love with Tom Castleton. They have faults; "   242     TO-DAY: A ROMANCE. perhaps, what are more than faults. Such people are interesting. I know it. I admit it. Did all things work evenly with us, with no crook or blemish, we should have but a dull time of it. So many occupations gone. So many shops shut and to let. So many people out of employ. All the day-laborers who are now ploughing, harrowing, planting, harvesting in the fields of subtlety and crime  suddenly houled off and discharged. No murders to chronicle; no arsons, robberies, thefts. No violence to read about; no slanders, libels, lies. No cheating, no knavery, no hearthurnings. No revenges, no extremes of wealth or poverty, and the load lifted off the heart of every human being. Oh, what dull times this would make. Yes, indeed, desperately dull, uninteresting times! You see I admit you are right, but you interrupted me. You did not wait till I brought my observations of Miss Dighy to a close. Pray permit me to proceed. We must not forget that two persons may be very good or very bad, very amiable or very morose, very generous or very selfish, very handsome or very ugly, and at the same time be totally unlike each other, since each has a separate and distinct character. Like ever so many people, my heroine was clever, accomplished, good-looking, honest; but beyond that she was-Clara Dighy.   She was naturally an enthusiast. She had a strong will, her fancy was active, and at eighteen her heart (I speak the language of sentiment) already began to demand an object to interest it. She manifested an independence of spirit, and a vigor which took her kind   M- ISS CLARA DIGBY AND HER LOV03E]. 243 and watchful guardian by surprise. Without exhibiting any want of respect for her teacher's suggestions, there came a time when Miss Pettengill felt, she knew not why, a restraint on herself in making them. "How strange, indeed," you will say. Not at all. The fact is, Clara, in the natural course of development, had grown out of the other's sphere and was revolving in an orbit of her own. Miss Pettengill was troubled, but the situation seemed without remedy. Her perplexity might remind you of the consternation of the hen who perceives the duckling she has solicitously hatched taking incontinently to the water the first opportunity. Clara saw no difficulty or danger in many things which to her guardian were inexplicable. So matters went on, Clara growing more and more into her own character, and throwing off whatever really did not belong to it. With regard to our sex, what shall I say? She was in a sense susceptible. She had the habit of interesting and being interested in men of a certain class. I mean educated men of mature mind and fine imagination, who were apt to be considerably older than herself. They could say nothing too deep for her comprehension, and there was a delicate compliment on both sides in the mutual appreciating and being appreciated. It led to considerable jealousy of Clara among her own sex, where, I do not think, she was specially a favorite, though, as I believe I once mentioned, the friends she did secure she was always sure of. After Clara became a young lady, she spent a good i, I.   244     TO-DAY: A    O MANC E. deal of her time in town. Her most intimate friend was Miss Emily Ferris, who was as unlike her as possible. After Tom Castleton came back to New York, his opportunities for seeing her were frequent. There had been a lapse of nearly two years, during which they had scarcely met. Clara herself was not slow to perceive the superior quality of her lover, for such he really was. If she had become metamorphosed, so had he. She found he liad kept pace with her, not only in the growth of his intellect, but in that world-adaptation which girls (who, can tell how?) suddenly leap into, leaving the young men far behind them. This last was due entirely to Tom's association with Horace Pulsifer. By reason of the mutual confidences agreed on,-whereby the lawyer was to become young again, and Tom was to be steered clear of the rocks and quicksands which had nearly wrecked the other,--Pulsifer had, after some difficulty, obtained the young man's secret from him. After that he took pains to become acquainted with Miss Dighy, and submit her to the crucible of his keen and unsparing power. Clara had never met such a man before.  She did not fancy him. She felt, by' a kind of instinct, what Pulsifer was about, and tried to resist. It was of no use, and woman-like she took the other extreme, and began to like the man.  When 21r. Pulsifer had satisfied himself that Clara was worthy of his protege, he took to advising Tom. He endeavored to build the young man up in his own esteem, I mean with reference to his love-affair. Fortu- nately he could not succeed, else all the charm and senti-   J.     .  MSS CLARA DIGBY AND HEE     LOVER. 245 ment would have vanished. At the same time, the nature of his profession and the companionship of Pulsifer had given Tom a general confidence in his own powers, which not only put him at ease in society, but produced an aplomb very necessary in his intercourse with a girl like Clara. So when at eighteen Miss Dighy " came out," changing as suddenly as chrysalis to butterfly, she did not leave Castleton behind, as so many poor fellows are left by young misses growing rapidly out of their reach. On the contrary, she found him quite as much changed as she herself was. You would suppose from this that matters would flow triumphantly with him. Quite the contrary. Clara had created to herself an ideal, and Castleton was not that ideal. This was all. She liked him, she acknowledged his superiority over all the young men of her acquaintance. She was always pleased to see him, he could fully 1" under- stand" her [a great word, by the way, is "'understand" in the mouths of young ladies], and was so a true friend. gNo w under other circumstances, more romantically arranged, affairs would doubtless have worked differently. But while Clara was content, Tom certainly was not. The former felt sure of her friend, but Tom by no means felt sure of Clara. Pulsifer kept a close watch of the situa- tion, and could not resist making some shrewd suggestions to Tom how to deport toward the young lady, so that, as he expressed, she should not have every thing her own way. "Never," exclaimed our hero. "I will never present /'  ;?   246     TO-DAY: A ROMANCE. myself to 'iiss Dighy other than I feel, other than I am. If I win her, she will at least suffer no disappointment, if I lose her, I shall not lose respect for myself." Pulsifer was abashed at this outhurst. The man of experience, educated, world-wise, profound, yielded to the plain statement of honesty and truth. "You are right," he replied, "and I was wrong. I fear, my boy, you will lose her. She knows so little of what actually awaits her. It is because I think she is worthy of you, that I advised a change in your conduct toward her. But it would not become you, and such advice ill becomes me." This occurred very nearly at the end of Tom's second year with Mr. Pulsifer, after he had surmounted the miseries of his introduction to the law and been promoted to a higher branch of legal training. The experiment of taking up a youth, making a com- panion of him, more than that, coming to his level and entering into all his feelings, looked like a strange freak on the part of Pulsifer. But no step was ever taken more philosophically, or with a more deliberate design. The lawyer had begun to fear that he was beyond the rectch of change! The thought appalled him. He saw the abyss and determined to avoid it. How well he judged, we begin already to see. The effect of this companionship on Tom was admira- ble. Pulsifer brought himself to be interested in the smallest details of Tom's daily experience, and carried Tom, at the same time, into his own domain and shared it with him.   MSS CLARA DIGBY AND HER LOVER. 247 On the commencement of the third year he was trans- ferred to the 'lawyer's own room, a most extraordinary innovation, so thought the whole office, for that room was held sacred and inviolable. The step was a wise one, con- sidering the material Pulsifer had to deal with. He found it necessary to relieve himself, and he determined to divide' his confidential labors with his young friend. Then what a range was opened to him. What vistas! what abysses! I hope, thought Tom, there is nothing more to come. I should sicken with any. deeper demon- strations. Before, things were complicated enough; bro- ken contracts, unpaid debts, quarrelsome partners, dishon- est associates, and swindling companies; but here the water i   mruns deeper. Corruption, intrigue, vice, guilt. It was the last revulsion, and Pulsifer knew it very well. Fear not," he said " to search the Truth in Error. These are great moral lessons. You have to learn them because they are true. You must work away at yourself till you have driven the UNTRIED out of you! Then you are safe." To return to Miss Dighy. It was not long before the young lady had a large number of admirers. As we have hinted, they were generally of a superior kind. Her for- tune, though seriously diminished by the events which now threatened to destroy the nation, was still large enough to attract the attention of a class of men who marry for a support; so that Clara had some of this set also to deal with. Report affirmed that during a few weeks which she spent in Washington, a distinguished member of the Cabinet, who was a widower with half a score of grown-   248     TO-DAY: A ROMANCE. up children, became so much fascinated with Miss Dighy, that he laid all his honors at her feet and besought her to accept them with the incumbrance of his heart and for- tune. The " fortune " was doubtless put in to round 'the period, as the great man had little; but I give the story as reported. Two or three Senators also greatly affected Miss Dighy's company, and she returned from Washington a good deal excited, certainly with no diminished sense of her own importance. I do not say that her career was spoiling her, but it certainly was not doing her any good.   Wi           C I* LARA D IGBY S I D EAL.     249 CHAPTER   VIIL CLARA DIGBYeS IDEAL. I AM: telling you about Clara's outside world, nothing of which touched her heart.- It might have been better if it had. For around it her fancy had erected a framework which proved as secure a defence as if it had been en- crusted in selfishness or excessive vanity or supercilious- ness, with this difference, that her heart was neither with- ered nor stagnated, as it would have been by those bale- ful qualities. It was simply out of the reach of the usual appliances. Beneath the framework grew and flourished tender emotions. How to reach them was the question Pulsifer often asked himself, when thinking for Tom. As I have intimated, Clara had not been slow to create an ideal man. Such a one as would fill the measure of her happiness, and satisfy brain, heart, soul. "How noble in reason! how infinite in faculties! in form and moving how express and admirable! in action how like an angel! in apprehension how like a god! the beauty of the world!" Just this, nothing less than this would content her. I have often thought, if the ideals of all the innocent young girls could be marshalled before them in very flesh , and blood, what a delightful time the dear creatures would have. Alas, it is impossible! Still these beautiful shadows   250     TO-DAY: A ROMANCE. and images would do them little harm, did they not insist on investing some very ordinary and often unworthy per- son, with all these fine, but imaginative qualities. So long as they do this, so long they will continue to experience the bitterness of a disappointed heart and hope. Clara Dighy found no one she: met who could serve for th]e one to invest with all the qualities her rich imagination had created. Now came the hour for Du Barry. He had written, not often, but pretty regularly to his cousin, and as time ran on, his letters became more and more interesting. Suddenly he changed his style, subject, in fact every thing that made up his epistles. This was because he learned Miss Dighy was very intimate with his cousin, and spent a good deal of time at her house. What long, romantic productions now took the place of his former easy gossiping letters. Miss Ferris did not lile them half as well as the others which were filled with students' nonsense. Du Barry was not writing any longer for his cousin, but for Clara. The latter was quite fasci- nated by them. The young exile from home and country did not exhibit the misanthropy of Byron's wandering "Childe ; " but the deeper, more philosophical sentiments which run through Goethe's Meister, whose religious scru- ples certainly did not prevent an abundance of outside enjoyment, while essaying to discover " the good, the beautiful, and the true." kNot that Du Barry cared a fig about these things, except as machinery wherewith to make himself appear interesting to Miss Dighy.               CLARA DIGBY'S IDEAL.        251 ;      How well he calculated you will soon see. You would :I    not suppose, to read his letters, that Clara ever entered his J;;i   thoughts, except as a school-girl still over her lessons. s;    Occasionally, but only occasionally, did he make any allu- sion to her, and that very briefly, quite by chance. But every sentence he wrote was carefully measured, and went straight to its destination. Sometimes he would assume a slightly pathetic role. All his friends, no doubt, would have forgotten him, when his long pilgrimage should be ended. A year or two he should spend in travel, going over all of Europe and the East, but his native land was his only real attraction. Emily Ferris did not know what to make of such let- ters. They were not at all in her vein. : She did not even attempt to reply to them, but was content to write about every-day matters, in which Miss Dighy was a good deal interwoven. As Du Barry and Emily Ferris had been brought up quite like brother and sister, she did not have any fanciful appreciation of him, quite the contrary. On the other hand, she wns more than half in love with our friend Cas- tleton; this did not affect her appetite; indeed, it is quite certain it never would, for she was not a girl to break her heart about any body. Du Barry's letters were quite enough for Clara to build her ideal on, and she commenced the work zealously. A photograph taken at the -time he was leaving for his pedestrian excursion (it was on this excursion that he came to T-, in the " happy valley" and first met Charlotte Meyer) with haversack and alpine-stock, and his wild flow- t,   252     TO-DAY: A RO MANCE. ing hair, and beard inculte, his fine form in a position care- less and unassuming, yet all assuming; I say a photograph of Du Barry was enclosed in one of his letters to his cousin. Clara regarded it with amazement. What a tall, hand- some young man! Did you ever see a person change so much? "Yes. Every body changes just so much from seven- teen to one-and-twenty," said Emily, curtly. "I should never have recognized it," said Clara. "No? For my part, I think his face has altered very little, if the whiskers were not there; not half as much as Mr. Castleton's." Clara made no reply. The young lady had exactly what she required. It would have amazed Du Barry to have known how rapidly he was gaining in qualities and characteristics! What a hero! Student, philosopher, traveller, polished man of the world, intellectual, hand- some, elegant, noble, generous, true. Bravo, Clara Dighy. No wonder you are content. Yes, you are very happy in the choice of this Eu8otov. Yet you are not in love with Alfred Du Barry. Your maidenly nature, your pride would instantly revolt at a proposition so unseemly. No, you are not in love with him; but you are cher- ishing a sentiment which it may be impossible ever to expel, and which prevents a worthier affection from taking root. Is there nobody to explain this to you? I fear not; because there is no one who knows how it really stands   CLARA DIGBY'S IDEAL.        253 with you. If any one can guess, it is Pulsifer. But Clara does not betray her confidences, and the lawyer can only look on and wait to see what may come of a girl's caprice. Castleton, meantime, was fully trusted, except only with regard to the secret shrine. He, and he only, might be said to know Clara perfectly.-That shrine kept secret, I may say, he did not know her at all.    
                A CULTURE relating to the sensual life alone, far from aiding humanity by its progress, oppresses and corrupts it in its innermost being, and, in spite of all our refinement and affluence, makes us, in truth, only worse and more miserable animals.--Jacobi.   I BOOK I     V. MANY  CHAPTERS IN   ONE. THE HSTORY OF ONE OF OUR QUEENS OF 'FASHON. MRS. CELIA AUGUSTA DELAINE was, at the time of my j  introducing her to the reader in Horace Pulsifer's office, just thirty-one years old. - At sixteen, she had married a very rich widower of fifty. The match created a great deal of talk, and the two children of Delaine (son and daughter), who were already settled in life and had families of their own, were simply furious on the occasion. Nobody could say Delaine was in his dotage. He was not yet an old man, besides he looked young for his age, and when feeling very well, he might reasonably pass for forty. Celia Augusta, on the other hand, was one of those girls not often found in our latitude, who arrive early at their full development. At twelve years of age she had nearly completed her growth; at fourteen her figure had taken its natural shape and proportion. Very perfect it was; physically speaking, it might be called faultless; of the oriental character, however, not at   258     TO-DAY: A ROMANCE. all spiritual; and when, two years later, John Delaine encountered her, he was completely upset, so he expressed himself to an intimate friend, infatuated, as his children insisted. There was this certainly to be said. Celia Augusta, at sixteen, had the pose and manner and look of a girl of two or three-and-twenty. Her mind was just as preco- ciously developed as her body. In short, there was noth- ing childish or even girlish about her. She was a young woman. Delaine had some time since retired from busi- ness and devoted himself to looking after a large landed estate, which had within a few years become immensely valuable. Celia Augusta's mother had the forethought to provide for a respectable settlement on her daughter, not in any sense proportionate to Delaine's large fortune, but appearing to be at the time a generous provision to one in her straitened circumstances. To avoid the talk of his set and to escape the re- proaches of his children, Delaine took his young wife, im- mediately after their marriage, and went to Europe. The mother sold out her boarding-house, and went somewhere among her relations. She had retired on a small annuity. It was not long before Mrs. Delaine was heard from on this side of the Atlantic. The reflex of the splendor of her salon in Paris penetrated the regions of our New York Belgravia. If her early opportunities had been neglected, she knew well how to make up for them. Very quietly she engaged masters who taught her music and singing. She had great natural taste and a superb voice, and she devoted herself to acquiring a com-   OUR QUEENS OF FASHON.       259 mand of the modern languages. Her husband never ven- tured to speak any thing but his own tongue. She was intensely ambitious, and with passions like her's and a nature naturally unscrupulous, it was well that her ambi- tion absorbed, at least for the time, every other excitement. Some slights she had received, before leaving home, which rankled deeply. To be at the head of fashion, to receive the admiration and the adulation of the throng, was what she resolved on. It pleased her husband to gratify her. In return, she did what she could to make him comfortable and enjoy himself. Further, in all the gossip of the salons, in all the free talk of the' clubs and echoes of the boulevards, not so much as a single breath was raised against the fair fame of this gay, free-mannered, and beautiful woman of fashion. No smile parted the lips of the knowing ones, if they met the husband sometimes sauntering by himself through the Tuileries or along the rue Rivoli, or encountered iMadame Delaine taking a dashing horseback ride with a distinguished member of some of the foreign embassies. Delaine knew this, ah, how well, felt it, I should say, and proud of his wife's attractions and of the homage she everywhere compelled, and of her fidelity to him (I mean what men and women of the world call fidelity), he walked about the observed and envied of many, while he grew more and more indulgent to his wife's wishes and more eager to gratify her ambitious aspirations. All these things came reverberating over the Atlantic, carrying consternation to the souls of good, honest scandal- mongers, who had declared the young minx would run   260     TO-DAY: A ROMANCE. away from " old "Delaine in three months after she had been in Paris, and to the consternation of Delaine's chil. dren, who were devoutly hoping she would do something to disgrace herself and drive their father home to seek consolation again in his family and a divorce. As we have seen, the " young minx " knew too much for that. She knew what was predicted of her. Very kind, sweet-tempered friends, had told her all about it with variations. It was not so intended, but they could not have done her a greater service. Delaine's disposition was not remarkably kind or par- ticularly affable; but as soon as lie and his wife were fairly established in Paris, he began quietly and unobtrusively to seek out the best class of new comers among his country- men, and offer them invitations to his house. Soon her husband became known as the most hospitable American in Paris, and his wife the most beautiful and most accomplished of her fair countrywomen. These reports, too, came driving across the Atlantic by every steamship. "Was he crazy?"So asked the scan- dal-mongers. "He was crazy." So said his children. Many, however, stopped abusing Mrs. Delaine and prophesying evil of her, and took to shaking their heads about the " old man." Old man! Delaine at that period was as hale and vigorous a fellow as you could meet, and looked, as I have said, about forty, while his wife, by a certain matronly way of dressing (how well they can serve you in all such points, those Parisian dress-makers), certainly did not look   i          OOUR QUEENS OF FASHON.       261 more than ten years younger, instead of four and-thirty years! This could not last forever. Alas! no. When a man has passed fifty, he is physically going down hill It may not seem so, but it is so. A girl at sixteen, married or unmarried, has, if she lives, a long sweep of thirty years before her, possibly more, for a career of fashion and dis- play. Delaine spent ten years in Paris with his wife, in which O   time she had reached the top round of the ladder. had travelled with her husband many times over the Con- tinent, coming back always to resume her sway in the French capital. At last she began to sigh for a permanent change of scene. This gilded life ceased to charm her; it ran from year to year in the same unvaried round, and she was ennuied. The parties, the receptions, the drives in the Bois, the court, the races, the gossip were no longer an attraction. Even the perpetual homage which she received was stereotype. She was disgusted with the watering-places and the Spas, Dieppe, Biarritz, Baden, Homburg. Every pass in the Alps had become familiar, Rome she knew by heart, as well as Florence. The Nile was a bore. She no longer had the incentive which abuse and opposition pro- duce. She had conquered both, and had vindicated her husband's choice. Ah! Had she? Ten years mark a cycle in the world of fashion and society. The elder ones give place gracefully or Other-   262     TO-DAY: A ROMANCE. wise. Others lose their money, die, leave the country, or mysteriously disappear. In this lies the fascination of our New York fashion- able life. Nowhere else do we see such constant and so marvellous changes and fluctuations in the lives of women who aim to lead in the salon. Rotation in office is carried out more unsparingly than among politicians. Behold that magnificent establishment, the liveried retinue, the four-in-hand, the conspicuous box at the opera. You saw them yesterday. To-day they 1have vanished. No, I mistake. Only the occupants are no longer to be met with. The house still stands, it has, only changed owners. The flunkies are hired to a new master. The carriages are repainted, revarnished, and have a bran-new coat-of-arms; the horses go with the carriages and the opera box with the horses. This sort of life is fascinating, for there is no end to exciting scenes, which never last long enough to wear an ennuied complexion. I beg my kind friend, Mrs. --, as well as my very accomplished friend, Mrs. --, not for a moment to sup- pose I would insinuate that it is possible for them to "fluc- tuate." Do I not know you and your family? Did not your father live before you here, in this city?-I will not men- tion his occupation.-Am I not perfectly aware there is nothing in the business of your respectable husbands which involves even ordinary risks? To be sure I am. Your picture gallery is improved by yearly additions.   OUUR QUEEtNS OF FASHON.       263 You still retain the same original stockholder's box at the opera. You interest yourself permanently in charities; you do indeed; and although I do not suppose you know much about the state of the poor, except sentimentally,      still you give money to help them. Permit me to state then unequivocally that I except you, and many like you, from this category. But then, must I say it, while no one disputes your position and your ability to maintain it, you are nzot the r'acge You know that very well, you never were, you never expect to be. It is true you have seen many young queens of fashion rise and disappear; but they were queens while they last- :j    ed, and you were content to do them homage-Content? No; but you were forced to do so. With bitterness in your heart, you moved in their train, for fashion is a despot against whom you dare not rebel.  While, therefore, you have without doubt secured a position from which nothing but grim death can dislodge you, yet you envied these " queens for a day," and would gladly have stepped in their vacant places, but you could not. Such were the conditions of society which Mrs. Delaine was to encounter when she decided to return to New York, I say, when she decided, for she now governed abso- lutely; yet without exhibiting any of the spirit of the tyrant. Her husband never dreamed that he did not have his own way. I do not think Delaine himself was as desirous to leave Paris as his wife, for he made almost   264     TO-DAY: A ROMANCE. yearly visits to New York to look after his real estate, which was constantly increasing in value. He generally spent about two weeks there, and then hurried back to his French home. In this way he would have been quite con- tent, I think, to have gone on all his life. But the time had come for Mrs. Delaine's return. For more than a twelvemonth previous, a magnificent edifice had been in course of construction far up-town on the Fifth avenue. It had a fine courtyard, and the style of the architecture attracted the notice of the passers-by. What was it? Nobody knew. The secret was well kept. Every thing was carried on through an agent; but whose agent was he? The very best people in every line were employed, and the plans executed with fidelity. At last the high fence which surrounded the mansion was taken away and the building exposed to full view- really a " thing of beauty!" Still nobody could tell any thing about it. Soon there arrived a large importation of French furni- ture, magnificent in style and construction. Several fine carriages accompanied the shipment, and the secret was permitted to leak out. The Delaines were to return from Europe and live in New York! Only think of it! This was their house. All this furniture belonged to them. So did the carriages. When would they arrive? That did not yet transpire. A staid and highly respectable-looking man, grave as a sexton, reticent as the Emperor, had taken possession when the furniture came in, and a woman, quite as grave and   OUR QUEENS OF FASHON.        265 still more reticent, had come with the man. Some simple people inquired if they were the Delaines. No; it was only the nmatre d'hotel and his sister, the femme de charge. This was in the month of October. It happened, opportunely, that just at the period, when Mrs. Delaine decided on the important step of entering on a New York career, the last furore in the way of the "divinest woman in the world," who had carried away the hearts of all the men and won the praises and affection (?) of all the women by her admirable deportment while enjoying a full tide of triumph; this charming creature, who did not lead the fashion, but who was the fashion, whose every word, look, motion, an eager and admiring throng anxiously waited on; of whom it was known just how many bonnets she possessed, how many camels' hair shawls, how many laces, the value of her jewels, and that she never was seen twice in' the same dress; this paragon of women, on whom, when arrayed for conquest, as she entered her box at the opera, all eyes were turned; to whom respectable mammas were anxious to present their still innocent daughters, proud if she invited one to sit by her side during the performance and witness the number of gallant mnen who would come between the acts to pay court to her.- I say it happened opportunely for Mrs. Delaine that at this particular crisis the " divinest woman in the world" saw fit to leave the country and her nearly bankrupt hus- band, and go to parts unknown, under the protection of an immensely rich stock-broker. It created very little sensation. It was in the summer, 12   266     TO-DAY: A ROMANCE.              H when society was scattered.  There were expressive  shrugs by some of the men, and plenty of "I knew just .  ; how it would turn out " by the women, and before autumn the whole affair was forgotten, and New York was with-    out a queen.                        t Mrs. Delaine came, on the stage with very different tactics. Her rele was to be quiet, but intensely attractive.- No ostentatious display of what was really ostentatious.  : She came with a character which had been proof against . Parisian batteries for a series of years. There was no  disputing it, nor the power it gave Mrs. Delaine, especially  as the successor of the " divinest woman." In one respect Mrs. Delaine changed absolutely. In    A Paris she exerted her skill to give herself a matronly look. In New York she assumed the appearance, manners, and    r simplicity of a child. If in Paris she looked thirty, I was :r about to say, for the sake of the alliteration, she now , looked thirteen. Certainly she might have passed for six- teen. She really was twenty-six. What a transforma- tion.                             Delaine, who still held his own pretty well, though he  had to be careful in getting to his feet or in stepping down- ^.ii stairs, and stuck a little when mounting his horse, Delaine  was amazed by the sudden change in his wife. "Why, Augusta, what has happened to you?   You look as young as the day we were married!" "I suppose it is the effect of my native air," replied his ; wife sweetly.  4"But, the devil, you were always in perfect health on i the other side."    OUR QUEENS OF FASHON.        267 "Oh, no, dear, you forget how often I used to consult Dr. Naudin." "Well, I can't say the air here agrees with me particu- larly," and Delaine glanced into a large mirror near by. 's Nonsense, John," said his wife, kindly; " you never in your life looked as well as you look at this moment." "I don't think it, Gussy," said Delaine, a little sadly. He seemed to be considering for the first time the immense disparity in age between them. "Why, love, what is the matter?  exclaimed Mrs. Delaine; ' you have the blues, I do believe. You have not got used to our new home. Come, let us have a ride in the Park. I was going to pay Mrs. Edward Delisle a visit, but we will take our ride instead." She turned to leave the room. "Gussy," said Delaine. She stopped. "Gussy, won't you put on the riding-habit you used to wear last summer, and--and-fix yourself-ah-ah, as you used to?" His wife laughed. "Hfow preposterous, John. Would you have me wear something as old as the flood, out of fashion this twelvemonth, besides I have given it to Lucille." She tripped away as she spoke.  Childlike as she seemed, she was inexorable as Fate. Delaine sighed again, and sat still till the horses were brought round. He did not feel at home in the Park, as he used to in the lBois, although he met many acquaint- ances, and his wife attracted universal attention.   268     TO-DAY: A ROMANCE. It was true, Delaine did have the blues. In New York there is not, as yet, any class who are absolutely men of leisure. There are no arrangements, in short, whereby such a class can exist. Delaine had a great many acquaintances. All the per- sons he had entertained in Paris were glad enough to wel- come him on his return, and return his civilities at their own houses. They were millionaires, if you please, but during the day they were busy; just as hard at work, indeed, harder than ever. If Delaine ventured to call on them, despite their politeness, it was evident he was in the way. He had done nothing so long, that he could not undertake to attend even to his own affairs. Besides, Delaine was right, the climate did not agree with him. At least, his new -mode of life did - not. He took less exercise, and at the same time lived more freely than usual. In New York the air is very stimulating. One cannot drink wine and ale and spirits with the same freedom as in Europe. Del]aine, however, took more than ever. He did not belong to a long-lived race. Somehow his wife had changed. She did not make him happy as formerly. Poor man! Meantime, Mrs. Delaine had stepped quietly, and as if by universal consent, into the place made vacant by the flight of her predecessor. What a contrast to the queen of the season! The mysterious machinery of her household, the numer- ous retinue, the peculiarity of the trifles which surrounded her establishment, her accomplishments, her powers ofcon.   OUR QUEENS OF FASHON.        269 versation, her ability to talk with foreigners in their own tongue, her youth, together with a certain modesty of de- meanor, which seemed naturally to belong to it, her unassum- ing manner on all occasions, and withal the happy way in which she exhibited the air of one perfectly assured of her position and entirely at ease in it--all these furnished topics for conversation and were in every bbdy's mouth. Then her easy politeness to every one, no matter whom. The sneer of the ugly Miss -- relaxed, the sarcasm of the ill-natured Mrs. -- died on her lips, the joke of -, the old beau, fell harmless, for nobody laughed at it. There was no mistake. Mrs. Celia Augusta Delaine had achieved a triumph. Only Delaine was no longer a happy man. He began to feel very miserable. He had to attend his wife on all occasions.-She would not stii out without him.--It began to be a serious inconvenience, but he went-went, but no longer enjoyed. -It will be recollected, the settlement which Delaine had made on Augusta was a moderate one, although it seemed at the time ample to the poor boarding-house keeper, her mother. Mrs. Delaine had never lost sight of this. It is true, should her husband die intestate, her own annuity and the use of one third of his property during her life would be a very handsome income, but it would immediately change her position from the height she now occupied to one quite second class. To have little or no property she could absolutely call her own, to enjoy only the use of one third of what she   270     TO-DAY: A ROMANCE.              ,i now entirely controlled! How desperately humiliating. It was the skeleton in her closet. For Delaine had a particular repugnance to making his  will. He entertained a feeling common to many, that it was a sort of preparation for death, in no wise agreeable,  in fact, very disagreeable. And although Delaine did intend to make his, and that without much delay, he could  never bring himself quite to the point. -  His wife, on some very tender occasions, would allude  to the topic, and then Delaine would say, "Yes, my dear,  you are quite right. Next week I will send for Dawson, and it shall be done. So matters stood when the Delaines returned to Ameri-  ca. After they were settled, Mrs. Delaine ventured to speak to her husband again, but I think her recent trans- formation to youth did not help the application. Delaine for once was peevish, and assured his wife there was time enough, he had no idea of dying at present. Augusta changed the subject at once; she only remarked she spoke more on his account, knowing his earnest desire that she should be comfortable, whatever might happen.  Her eyes filled with tears as she spoke, tears produced by his harsh manner.  Delaine was conquered, and promised to confer with his  counsel the first of the week, and so time went on. By dint of adroit management, an interview was at last brought about between Mr. Delaine and this counsel, who was our acquaintance, Horace Pulsifer. On that occasion,  it is a fact that Delaine did convey to the lawyer his views  about the final disposition of his property, of which Pul-   OUR QUEENS OF FASHON.        271 sifer took a few minutes. But here the matter ended. Relieved by partially doing his duty, it was thenceforth indefinitely postponed. Mrs. Delaine not only held sway during her first New York season, but entered triumphantly on the second, more fully assured than even during the preceding year. But what she had been for some months dreading, came to pass. For when this second season was near its close, indeed, it lacked but a single week to Lent, John Delaine, on returning from a grand party with his wife, was stricken with sudden illness, so that for some time he was speech- less. It proved that one half of his frame was seriously paralyzed, and that his idle, selfish, insignificant career had found its close. He did not die. On the contrary, he rallied, and re- port said he was much better, indeed would soon be out again. After several weeks he was out. One fine, balmy Spring day he appeared at the street door, accompanied by his wife and physician, leaning on the arm of his re- spectable-looking maitre d'hotel. He. was helped slowly down the steps and into a carriage. What a change those few week had wrought in him- poor, worn-out, ghastly creature! After that he might be encountered, on almost any fine day, supported by a stout serving-man, taking a few steps along the avenue. He paid little attention to those he met, looking at them with lack-lustre eyes.   z'l     TO-DAY: A ROMANCE.              ;: The conduct of his wife on this occasion was truly    commendable. Every thing was put aside that she might devote herself entirely to her husband. The slightest   - suggestion of the physicians was carefully attended to. In fact, she saw personally to every requirement.      What if he should die without a will!  The idea haunted the innocent young creature. What, indeed! He must not, he should not die-intestate! How  beautiful she looked, arrayed in the simplest  1 Spring dresses, devoting herself to her darling husband. Delaine's children, who called assiduously to inquire for their father, could not deny that she was a model wife on this trhing occasion. When the season advanceld, preparations were made to  I go to an acgreeable summer resort, recommended by the medical men, where the invalid might find cheerful society without the noise and bustle of more prominent places. Before this, Mrs. Delaine had several interviews with  ; Horace Pulsifer. He bhad never destroyed the brief memo-  We randa about Delaine's will. It was a delicate subject for  rl the wife to open. But she managed this admirably, by : simply telling the truth. I do not say all the truth, but she permitted no misstatement to escape her. She made,   I?  in this way, a good impression on the keen analyzer.    1 i Ever since her return from Europe she had done her best to study Pulsifer and to find his weak side, if possible. e : The result was not fruitful. She only saw how impossible  , it was to use him, how difficult even to deceive him.    I After Delaine had been ill two or three months, she   I sought an interview with the lawyer, and in the most   OUR QUEENS OF FASHON.        273 frank, innocent manner told him that her husband had ever since they were married proposed to make a will and from time to time delayed it. He, Pulsifer, knew her husband's mind about it, since he had already been consulted. She would not conceal her anxiety on the subject on her own account. At the same time she felt that her husband's wishes ought, if possible, to be carried out. She gave Pulsifer, who listened with interest in spite of himself, an account of her married life, in which she attempted no affected sentimentality. She acted through- out with great naturalness. She did not propose to speak to her husband about his will till his health became more settled; but as she could not well help thinking about it, she desired to consult with him. So matters went on. Delaine returned from his sum- mer sojourn certainly no worse. Indeed, his general health appeared firmer.  Still he could bear no reference to the will. In vain Mrs. Delaine endeavored to persuade Mr. Pulsifer to draw up one. He would not- do it without further consultation with Delaine, and the lady saw it was not safe to press him. The New York season was again approaching. It was hard to give it up, but it would be still harder to lose Delaine's fortune. Society was renounced, and devotion to her husband zealously practised. Of course, she lost her position as leader. Society could not wait, but forthwith installed a new divinity. Now it was that the hard side of Augusta Delaine's nature began to display itself. She took care that the world knew just how devoted she was to her invalid hus- 12*   274     TO-DAY: A ROMANCE.  band. She had, of late, particularly cultivated the friend  ship of the Rev. Croton Ellsworth.     H:3 [I had forgotten to say she and her husband, from the time they returned to America, had been regular attend- ants at the Church of the Miraculous Presence.]       : That reverend gentleman, after the illness of Delaine, was very constant in his duties as pastor, coming in often, generally about lunch-time, to see his afflicted parishioner, i and taste a glass of Veuve Cliquot, some of Delaine's own importation.  As the season advanced, ,Croton Ellsworth's visits  became more frequent.  He had several confidential  interviews with Augusta, the result of which was that   .? both parties seemed to understand each other perfectly. It was not long after this, before another legal gentle- man was called in; one of Croton Ellsworth's selection. He was quite an old man, very respectable, of course; in  fact, standing formerly high in his profession, but now! i partially retired from it.                   I cannot undertake to give the circumstances-and     1it there were interesting ones, doubtless.-I do not know   !. what conversation Croton Ellsworth really had with     i Delaine prior to a certain date (March 30), when, as was  subsequently proved in court, Delaine signed, sealed, pub-' i lished, and declared a certain paper as his last will and$ testament, in the presence of the divine and the respect-  1": able professional man, and delivered it accordingly.     4 It is well known that after this event Delaine grew   i worse; he had suffered too great a strain, perhaps, on his shattered nervous system. Some old friends, who were in   O U R U jN 5 OF FAbHON.      275 the habit of coming in, were denied admittance; he was "too weak to see company."- Finally, his children were excluded. In the summer they went to the same place as on the previous year; both Delaine and his wife. The wife only came away. The poor, broken-down old man had passed from this world, and left to her the absolute control of all his large fortune! Here was Augusta's mistake. She had grasped too much. Had the will been prepared exactly in accordance with the minutes taken by Pulsifer, I am quite sure De- laine's children would have acquiesced. But the wife was too confident. She had enlisted on her side the medical men, the lawyer, the priest; what had she to fear? She went into the blackest of mourning. She put all her servants in mourning. The solemn and respectable maitre d'^otel and his serious and respectable sister, the femme de charge, looked more solemn and serious and respectable than ever. Croton Ellsworth- called often to administer consola- tion. He preached a sermon on the duty of resignation, for the widow's special benefit. Delaine's children were not satisfied to be shut abso- lutely out of their inheritance. After a proper delay, they commenced to make investi- gation. They found barriers to their progress, almost in- surmountable. By degrees they gained somewhat; a bit of intelligence here and a trivial circumstance there aided to form a ground-work on which, after a year or more had passed, one or two keen lawyers undertook to prosecute.   276     TO-DAY: A ROMANCE . Mrs. Delaine had continued to consult with Pulsifer even when she had employed another lawyer to draw the will. In fact, she acquainted him at the time very frankly with what she had done. Just so soon as she could deo cently do so, after the funeral, she had retained Pulsifer as her general adviser; and now began the contest for power -since money is power.  At the time I presented Mrs. Delaine to the reader in  the lawyer's consulting-room, her husband had been dead   : nearly three years. Augusta herself was thirty-one, a dangerous age for married women who do not love their  ! husbands, and for widows who did not love them when they were alive.  Ever since she was married, Augusta Delaine had beenf engrossed and constantly occupied with her schemes and plans to the exclusion of any romantic, sentimental, or passionate emotions. She did not permit any thing to   , turn her mind from the objects she steadily pursued, and this is why she was always successful.           i  But when the last crisis had passed; when the period of mourning had been punctiliously fulfilled, and she was ready to emerge again into life, experienced, unscrupulous, free, her heart beat quick at thoughts she never before had known, certainly had never before tolerated, but which now came unbidden, and which, perhaps, she was ready to welcome. Her lawsuit was scarcely more than in its inception.  i1 She was advised she had little to apprehend from it. All traces of her own work had been too well covered, and  time was running against them.   OUR QUEENS OF FASHON.        27'7 It cannot be, denied that with some very respectable people Mrs. Delaine had lost caste. The affair of the will had been so much talked of; she found it necessary to be careful. Delaine's children, too, made a formidable party; so that with all her fresh display and elegant arrangements she could not help perceiving that things had much changed since her husband's death.  Before, she was  under his protection. There is something very potent in a husband's protec- tion, silent, unostentatious though it be, and gay wives, unloving wives, I was about to say unfaithful wives, can- not fully appreciate its worth till they have lost it.     i When Mrs. Delaine again entered fashionable life, she experienced this very quickly. There was that, in the manner of a certain class of men difficult to indicate, im- possible to resent, but which she felt keenly. She now had to take care not to lose adherents. She  could not help feeling that she was the subject of un- friendly criticism and remark in certain quarters. This produced in her, at times, a bold, defiant manner quite at variance with her former soft, sweet demeanor.  She bore herself bravely, nevertheless. Her great wealth, her beauty, her youthful appearance, and her really charming manners enabled her to keep up what many would regard as an enviable position. It was at this time she got a glimpse of young Castle- ton as he passed from Pulsifer's private room. She was so struck by his appearance that, as we have seen, she inquired of the lawyer who he was. Not satisfied with t             my.   2'78     TO-DAY: A ROMANCE.             : the information, she managed to get sight of Tom in the clerks' room.  I do not pretend to account for these things, but the  accomplished woman of the world was smitten with this young fellow. For the first time in all her life-smitten. It was not difficult for her to manage to become acquainted with him. Her visits to the lawyer's office  were tolerably frequent. It was not long before accident  brought the two together. Castleton was invited to her i: house, and his name put on her list. It not unfrequently happens that a mature, experienced, and beautiful woman, something blasge it may be, of fash-  ionable life, but still in the flush of a triumphant career,  becomes infatuated with a thoroughly intellectual youth or young man whose feelings are fresh and who is virtuous- i,! infatuated to the exclusion of almost every other thought  or emotion.  Augusta Delaine believed that her secret was safe, even  from Pulsifer. He/ was quite willing she should think so.  He looked on quietly, betraying no intelligence on the sub- ject. "Let the young fellow find it out himself. It won't  hurt him any. And it won't do any harm to let Clara   : Dighy know what other women think of him." The lawyer could not quite give up his shrewd, world- ly-wise cogitations. 'lI   BOOK V. BO OKJE Vex              .   i A I drift hither and thither, Birth and grave,  An eternal sea, A changeful weaving, ' i IN the tides of life,                 t In the st I work at the whizzin loom of atime I am lifted up and downl             -   e I drift hither and thither,              ^CF Birth and rave,                    .: An eternal sea}                     ; A changeful weavingl, Thus I work at the whizzing loom of time,        - ; And weave the living clothing of the Deity! eGo3the, Faust. ' '-; i E                 r    BOOK V. CHAPTER   I. A WOD IN PASSING. AFTER a separation of more than seven years, Castle- ton and Du Barry met in the manner described in the commencement of this history. These seven years had served to form both of them. Castleton was in advance of his old companion. He was already in the " thick of human life," while Du Barry had only skimmed the surface. Both were at an age when the heart so far exercises control as to give a coloring to the feelings; when, what- ever may be our plans and purposes, they are apt to be associated with some one we love, and whom we hope to win. This humanizes for the time the most hardened and selfish. It is our richest patrimony. Why is it so soon wasted? The answer would involve too long a digression. We talk of blighted hopes and broken hearts. Who can say but men have quite their share? Early in life, I believe they suffer more in this way than the gentler sex; after- wards, the fierce contests of the arena expel or blunt the   282     TO-DAY: A ROMANCE.             pangs of unrequited love, and make men cynical or in-  ^ different; while women ordinarily have more opportunity : to brood over their ruined hopes as time advances.   - God help both, in this matter of disappointed affec- tions!                         i. I- :. It   RECEPTION IN THE METROPOLIS.       283 CHAPTER   II. A GRAND RECEPTION IN THE METROPOLIS. THE reader may possibly remember the rather startling announcement made by Ellsworth to Graves (it was in the beginning of my story) that Enos Foote had been trapped by a corner, and the very honest hope expressed that this catastrophe, whatever else it might involve, would not spoil his young wife's receptions. It did not. It is to one of these receptions I now intro- duce you. It would seem that the whispers of her husband's calam- ity only stimulated the lady to greater extravagance and display. On this occasion the rooms were garlanded with natural flowers of hothouse growth. The music was ex- quisite. Trollari, then the most famous public singer in the country, had consented, on the occasion, to sing one song! The supper was most elaborate and profuse. The company-but why need I go into particulars? One of the New York journals contained three columns descrip- tive of this " recherche affair." In these three columns the public are told how many thousand dollars were expended for "flowers alone," the value of the present which Trollari received, and the total of Lenthall's bill for the entertainment, together with   284     TO-DAY: A ROMANCE. various other important items, including descriptions of dresses and of the charming creatures who wore them.  Mrs. Enos Foote expressed herself as " perfectly indig- . X nant " that these details should have "found their way  into the newspapers!" She alluded especially, she said,  to the impertinent gossip about the cost of her reception.  "What were we coming to, when the items of one's     r household expenses were not free from such meddling curiosity! It was high time some restraint was put on  the press, indeed it was."'  Perhaps I ought iot in this connection to mention that this lady had invited to her party a young gentleman con- nected with the paper referred to, for the express purpose of having this thing done. Indeed, in an interview grant- ed him that morning, she herself had furnished these very. items, and much more of the same sort which the young  :. man's sense of decency, and what was becoming as a jour-? nalist, did not permit him to print, and of which omission ;I Mrs. Enos Foote complained bitterly!          - Really, we have nothing to do with these inside views, any more than we have with the "corner " old Enos is  threatened with. At such a party, it is the surface only which we must regard, and I confess I always enjoy the picture. Many of our old acquaintances were present. Miss Dighy was there with Mrs. and Miss Ferris, all looking  very attractive. The contrast between Clara and her friend was strik- Ing. The latter was a tall, fine, showy girl, quite a beauty  in her way. Miss Dighy, with her petite figure, absolute- "   RECEPTION   IN THE METROPOLIS.     285 ly faultless, her clear, pale complexion, and large, luminous brown eyes, as she stood near her companion, looked as if she belonged to another race of beings. The Ferrises had come early, and the rooms were not yet filled. Clara permitted herself to be entertained in the reception-room by one of her more mature admirers, where she could amuse herself in watching the arrivals. He was " a man of celebrity," and had the reputation of being, a "brilliant conversationalist;" which means, as far as I have been able to judge, an insufferable bore who insists on monopolizing all the discourse on all occasions; in simple tete-atete, at the dinner-table, during between- acts at the Opera, at a morning call, or even on a rustic excursion en plein air! Clara took refuge here, because it would not be neces- sary for her to speak a word; and she did not feel like talking. Du Barry was to be at the party. He had told her so; Castleton too. Whose coming was she awaiting with an interest difficult to conceal? At length Castleton entered, and made his way toward the mistress of the house. Clara regarded him for a moment with an expression almost of pain. As she was standing, he would naturally pass on with the new-comers without seeing her. She felt relieved when she saw him do so.  He strayed from  room to room,!exchanging a passing word with his acquaintances, until he saw Miss Ferris. "Is Miss Dighy not here to-night!" he asked, after a short conversation.   286     TO-DAY: A ROMANCE.             " " Oh, yes; she came with us; she is somewhere with my foreign cousin, I dare say."     '  e This was said in a very careless tone, but how design- X ing it was.                       = "Is it not perfectly enchanting? Have you observed those flowers? The music really makes me frantic."  Of course Castleton asked the young lady to waltz,  ? and they stepped together to the dancing-room.      i It was not easy for him to escape, but he managed to do so on the coming up of two or three young gentlemen : of her acquaintance.                   I With a heavy heart he passed through the different  J^ rooms, fearing lest he should espy Clara in some retired nook with Du Barry, and tantalized because he did not! How Castleton was tortured, no one could imagine, who  : did not know how entirely his heart was set on that little pale creature, with the lustrous hair and large luminous i eyes.                     '     A You recollect, perhaps, his determination to submit his fate to her decision, as soon as Du Barry should return; but six weeks had passed, and he could not bring himself ; to it. First, it seemed out of place to present his claims - when Du Barry's friends were engaged in welcoming him   home. Then it was but fail that Clara should have an   : opportunity to see something of her old school acquaint- i, ance before pressed to disclose her feelings. Then he-  feared. In short, we find Castleton at the end of six weeks no nearer his object than before, but suffering a thousand  times more than ever         . . "   RECEPTION N1 THE METROPOLIS.       287 Perhaps while Castleton is wanldering in search of what he cannot bear to find, I had better tell you, in a few words, about what happened after the meeting with his old friend on his return from Europe, and their subsequent intercourse. I shall have the better opportunity to do this, because I know that Du Barry will not be here till late-he is staying away for effect--he will come, though, just when Clara is despairing of seeing him. The first two days after his arrival Castleton gave up almost entirely to his friend. Their intercourse could' hardly be otherwise than agreeable in the flush of Du Barry's arrival, and the incidents attending it; but really, they were as little known to each other, as if they had never been boys together. Their letters in this respect amounted to just nothing. Both had totally changed since they separated. After the excitement of his coming back had subsided Castleton felt a sense of disappointment so positive, that no effort of his could overcome it. Du Barry called on two or three occasions at the office, and was disgusted to find him hard at work, and unable to give him but a few minutes of his time. It was soon evident these young men had nothing in common. We know what Castleton's training had been. Du Barry, after seven or eight years in Europe, quite his own master, without a care or a responsibility, except how not to exceed his limited income, had returned aimless to his native land, where, of all countries, to be aimless is to be as if he did not exist.   288     10-DAY: A ROMANCE .  His chief conversation with Castleton was to complain of the crude appearance of every thing around, of the half- formed condition of New York, and of the dirty streets. He feared our country would cease to be a land of liberty, - t and would degenerate into a land of license till it fell  under the rule of a despot, and much more of the same  sort of twaddle. All this was delivered in an opinionated tone, every way unlike the free and easy "Alf" of old  - times. Castleton was heavy-hearted. He felt he had lost the  friend of his boyhood. Pulsifer understood this, and told him not to try to keep up an illusion. It would indeed t have been idle to attempt it. Good friends enough they  might be, that is, in the ordinary way, but nothing more. I come back to the gay scene at FMrs. Enos Foote's. On this occasions the entire house was thrown open, a5 What a throng! Every place was filled. A charming   ? perfume was wafted from room to room.   Rapturous  music (many lovely women that evening pronounced it   : divine, but it was not divine), "With its voluptuous swell,"  attracted to the dancing-roomns. There you witnessed a sight of enchantment. All that  money could procure-money lavished without stint or2 thought of the outlay--all that taste could suggest, all  that health and spirits and beauty could impart to adorn  the picture, aided that evening to throw a fascination over the scene, and make you forget there ever had been a past, or that a future was possible.   -.^^ ^.A1 V^ a^w j HOf T"J; TiRUv 'UiiIS. 289 Clara at last began to tire of the " man of celebrity!" She had repeatedly been solicited to join the dancers, but her companion cared for nothing of the sort. He kept on talking profoundly, and looking supernaturally wise. At:  length, believing her companion to be laying out a dis- course which would reasonably last into the small hours, she availed herself of the next opportunity to make her escape. The brilliant conversationalist shook his head as he saw her depart. "I was mistaken in her," he muttered-" a trifling girl, very trifling." He paused a moment, and took his way to the refreshment room. Clara had accepted the invitation to dance, in order to escape from this man; but after a little she was quite as ill at ease with her new companion. When rallied on her      I absent manner, she complained of headache.  Only think      I of it. The proud and conscientious Clara Dighy descend- ing to subterfuge. But her feelings were so worked up, that she hardly knew what she was saying.  She was in- fatuated with Du Barry; there is no other word for it. At length Castleton saw her. His heart beat with joy      1 to find she was not with his rival. On  other occasions,  with how much pleasure would Clara welcome his pres- rnce; how  happy was she to'escape to him from  those vho might be attempting to entertain her; how secure she lways felt in his friendship. It was different now.  Clara did her best, however, to ;onceal the change.  She endeavored to receive Castleton is usual; but her listless manner, the slight flush that was   I )eginning to rise on her usually pale cheek, and the absent   ' 18   290     TO-DAY: A ROMANCE. expression of her eyes, betrayed some unusual perturba- ! tion. She took Castleton's arm, as she had so often done before, and they passed from room to room.'  "Are you not well this evening?" he asked at last. "I do not think I am very well," was Clara's reply, and the words came from her heart. "I knew you were not," continued Castleton, ' indeed i you really look ill. Had you not better go home?" "Go home? No, indeed."                1  She spoke with an energy that startled herself. It cer-  tainly startled Castletcn. "I mean I think I feel better !, here than I would at home," she added in a low voice. While the two were thus awkwardly engaged, Mrs.    :; Delaine swept by with one of her fashionable train.    j Her eyes flashed fire as she turned them on Miss Dighy. She hated the girl; hated her for being so entire- if ly different from herself in looks and in style, and for the :; admiration she attracted; above all, she hated her for en- grossing the whole of Castleton's heart.         ? She saw with the keenness of her woman's wit, that  i things were not flowing smoothly in that quarter, and this i was a relief to her. Presently she repassed in the same direction, so as again to meet our friends, and she was con- i firmed in her opinion.                  A 4 Castleton could not engage Clara in conversation. She . did not wish to dance any more. She did not care for   Xi refreshments. This state of things was not to be borne,  and Castleton was about asking point-blank for an expla- [ nation, when he felt magnetically that a change had come  over his companion. She made an observation quite in her j   RECEPTION   IN THE METROPOLIS.      291 easy, natural way, she looked at her friend with eyes no longer listless or preoccupied, but having their former interested expression. Because, glancing into the adjoining room, she saw conspicuous the fine form of Du Barry, as he was careless- ly endeavoring to thread his way through the throng. What a subtle piece of handiwork is the human heart! What a power is the power to love. To love! How it beautifies and makes happy. To love-it is to be at peace and harmony with the whole world. It fills the soul with good will to every human being. If all could enjoy this, the universe would become one grand harmony. On this occasion a tranquil happiness filled Clara's heart so entirely that it worked an immediate change in her manner toward her companion. Du Barry had come. He would join her in time; she was in no haste; she could wait and be happy meantime. She even changed her mind about dancing, and told Castleton that if still agree- able to him, she would try one galop. Castleton was enchanted. He was in the condition to catch at straws. The poor fellow gave himself up to being excessively happy, for the next twenty minutes, when the form of his rival suddenly cast its shadow on him. Du   Barry came up. He  appeared easy and self-pos- sessed. He   greeted Clara cordially, and Castleton more than that, affectionately. It was perfectly natural standing quite still, as they were, and conversing, that Clara should withdraw her arm from Castleton. This she did very   292     TO-DAY:' A ROMANCE.  gently; as ladies know how to do under such circum-   F stances.                         - Du Barry saw it, and prepared for the next move. Castleton felt it, and dclown he sank where he was before-- into the depths.                      After a judicious time had elapsed, Du Barry said, "Miss Dighy, do not forget I am still almost a stranger  lere. I am going to ask yot to aid me in a little tour of : observation?" He offered his arm as he spoke, Clara looked, at Castleton and smiled kindly [the most fatal sort of smile a  lover can receive is a kind smile], took Du Barry's arm, and the two disappeared. "You love that girl,-don't you?"    .      : Castleton turned sharply, and saw  Mrs. Delaine  standing by him. He chlanged color. It was. partly from \ , vexation.           : "Nay," said the beautiful woman, in a voice very soft j % and low, "do not be angry. I am privileged.  You   : know the interest I take in you. You must not forget what I have so often told you, that I hav-e felt you were in my charge ever since the first day I saw you, when you  entered that dismal hole in Nassau street." Castleton could not help smiling at the appellation bestowed on the law office. He felt complimented, too, by the openly expressed regard of a handsome woman. For at that time he had not the least idea it was any thing  beyond a friendly interest. ' Still he shrank from the profanation of having his  {   RECEPTION IN THE 'METROPOLIS.,      293 feelings laid bare, indeed, from any allusion to that topic. Mrs. Delaine spoke so directly and so seriously, that it was not easy to throw off the subject with a laugh. His fair companion gave him no time to do so. "I want to talk with you a few minutes." She took his arm as she spoke (married women have an easy assurance in the company of very young men), when a fresh strain of music burst on them, so exquisite in its earthness, that the senses seemed suddenly to be tuned in harmony with it. "Oh," she exclaimed, "they have commenced the Deuxtemps-I am passionately fond of it; but I do not trust myself with every body. You dance it to perfection (Castleton did not dance particularly welD; I have seen you with Miss Dighy.    You turn red  again.  Mr. Castleton, you are too superior to blush in this way." They were on the floor, Castleton hardly knew how. They whirled  round and round, then forward then backward, then round again. lMrs. Delaine never felt so happy before. She attracted a great deal of admiration firom  the lookers-on. Her figure was just as youthful as ever. As I once remarked, physically it was perfection, one of those marvels of crea- tion which we insensibly wonder at and admire, but which produces no worthy emotions. She was many years older than Castleton, but she looked quite as young as he that evening. "I cannot-any more-I enjoy-so much." Her covert words as she pressed close to Castleton, as if for support, fell short of their mark. With all, the   294     TO-DAY: A ROMANCE.              . knowledge of character which he had acquired, he did not comprehend the nature of this woman,.  True love is a protector. His thought of the sex was preserved pure and exalted by his regard for Clara. Mrs. A : Delaine knew just what Castleton was. There was to her an intense charm in his purity of character, and in what  v she termed his modesty, which was so much in contrast with the conscious and confident manners of the men of  ; society.                          ; i Her heart beat quick at the thought of secering him for her own. She did not permit herself to think of the disparity in age. With him she could be always young. He must, he should be hers. That bloodless, pale-faced  thing should never carry him off. What did sle know of love? ;? At that moment MDrs, Delaine was not aware of the exact state of things. She could never have imagined    : that Clara could be indifferent to Castleton, she did not : know that a rival was already in the field.   : Clinging closely to Castleton's arm, the two left the dancing-room, and walking through the hall, came where a small divan within the recess of the window offered a seat. "Let us sit here," she said, " till I finish what I have !. to say to you."                      1 The little divan was certainly not too large for anly  full-dressed fine lady, but Mrs. Delaine insisted there was room for both. How she disposed of herself to effect this, . I do not know; but she did manage it, so that she actually : offered her companion half the seat.           ;   RECEPTIONI INS THE [METROPOLIS.      295 "How do our New York parties compare with those you have attended abroad?" asked Clara of her companion. Now, beyond going to one ball given by our Ambassa- dor in Paris and attending a single reception of our resi- dent Minister at Brussels, Du Barry had been present at no large entertainments on the other side of the Atlantic. To be sure, he used to go sometimes to Madame Glaub- heist's, the wife of Freiherr Glaubheist, on occasions when she invited to her house numerous professors, their wives and daughters, and where a limited number of stu- dents were present. But these were solemn, affairs; no waltzing, no danc- ing, no supper, and slight refection; but much philosophi, ical talk and metaphysics. Something, doubtless, after the fashion of the " asthetic teas," which Coleridge used to speak of. In short, the young man had really seen no soci- ety in Europe. He had seen a great deal of the world at large, and knew very well what was going on in it. As to accom- plishments, he had the best teachers in every variety of waltz, as well as the numerous offshoots in the way of im- provements on this German creation. I do not condescend to give the names of these teach- ers, nor where they resided; but I assure you in this respect Du Barry felt perfectly at home on the floor at any party, ball, or reception in his native country. He was quick-witted, and readily adapted himself to new occasions; and if he did commit a solecism it was put   296     TO-DAY: A ROMANCE.      . down as all right. He had lived seven or eight years in ! Europe and ought to know!               ? So when Miss Dighy asked him how the parties in  New York compared with those he had attended abroad,  ' he replied without hesitation, "With my strong American feelings, I am inclined to say, very favorably. We cer-  tainly bear off the palm in the beauty of our women. If ,::5 I might be allowed to criticise, after being here so short a  time, I should say there is too much lavish display, withll  too little regard to taste and refinement. In these, I  .  think the Europeans are in advance of us." "But then they have had three thousand years' prac- tice, my boy, as old Burton used to say of the mummy!" it: 1 These words were uttered in a jolly tone by a short, fat, jolly-looking man, who had just emerged from the ![! supper room and was now standing near Du Barry. He  knew the young man and Miss Dighy, and being one of those privileged persons whom you often meet on such  ': occasions, after listening to question and answer, had joined in the conversation.               I "How are ye, how are ye," he continued, nodding to i each, "hope you are well; perfect jam here to-night;"  and twisting his short fat body through the crowd, he dis-  appeared. Du Barry was annoyed (such unsentimental interrup- tions are annoying); but so far from manifesting any cha- $: grin, he laughed, and said, '"I think Mr. Stokes has not  changed in the slightest since I was a boy." :: Miss Dighy remarked she never could bear the man,  : and in a short time the flow of conversation was resumed. :   iECEPTION- IN THE METROPOLIS.       297 It took, after a while, a romantic turn. "You are engaged for the next waltz?" CYes." "And the next?"  The young lady consulted her tablets. ,c Yes." "For the Lancers?" "No." Virginia Randall was, perhaps, the most attractive girl present; at least to the larger number. She was in her glory that night, with her fine figure, her clear complexion, her large gray eyes, and dark lashes, and yellow hair. A perfectly magnificent creature Ellsworth thought her. It made the blood tingle in his veins, as he saw her step on the floor with Graves. There was an easy assur- ance that evening in his rival, which he had never wit- nessed before, and which alarmed him. Could Virginia be trifling with him? Very likely. After waiting, as it seemed to him an interminable space of time, while Graves still monopolized Miss Randall, he had accosted her boldly in the presence of his rival, and we see with what success. .He was down for the Lancers. Graves was greatly content. It was very comfortable to be loved by such a beautiful girl, who attracted such universal admiration. He was particularly delighted to have the advantage of Ellsworth, when Ellsworth in every other respect seemed always to have the ads antage of him. Besides, Graves loved the girl as much as he was capable of loving any body. 13*   298     TO-DAY: A ROMANCE. Du Barry and Miss Dighy had several times passed the spot where Castleton and Mrs. Delaine were en- sconced. The former were too much preoccupied to notice   i them. But nothing escaped the attention of Castleton's companion. She took in the situation at a glance. She did not mistake Clara's absorbed and interested look, and her eyes gloated over the spectacle. The next time they passed she whispered to Castleton, "Love, they say, is blind, else you would be convinced 1 of what every body else fully comprehends," and she nodded toward the two., Castleton started to his feet. He was betrayed into this sudden expression of feeling. "I do not care to converse on this topic, madam," he said. "Perhaps you will resume your seat," observed the. lady coldly, " and not exhibit rudeness in return for the  sincere interest I feel in you."  Castleton instantly apologized, and sat down again. He had lost a trick in the game that woman (not he) was playing. The advice he had given to William  Holt not very long before in regard to Virginia Randall IX flashed through his mind, and he could not help feeling  that his own case was becoming quite like that of his old acquaintance. After he was seated he remained  perfectly silent. C"In one word, tell me," said Mrs. Delaine, returning to  the attack, and in a tone more decided and vigorous than  she had before used, "why you are angry with me.'  "i   RECEPTION IN THE METROPOLIS.       299 It was a hard question to answer. Castleton was in the toils. He had betrayed himself by his sudden movement, and there was no escape for him. "I am not angry with you," he said at last, after some hesitation, as if endeavoring really to decide whether he was or not. "I believe you, for you are incapable of a deception," returned Mrs. Delaine. "I am to attribute your conduct then to emotion of another kind. It is as I told you. You love Clara Dighy, and Clara Dighy," she paused to give emphasis to what she was saying, "Clara, Dighy loves that Du Barry. See!" They were passing again, more deeply engaged than ever. Du Barry had got on his most fertile subject- himself He was speaking of his return to America, and was remarking that he had not yet decided where to reside. Hie did not like the atmosphere of New York. It was too commercial. He lowered his voice and con- tinued. "Certainly we cannot regard that society as aristocratic which can be drawn together at a rich stock-broker's. There does not appear to be any standard in New York but money. I may be mistaken, but so it seems to me." Clara did not stop to reflect that from the earliest record this has been the stereotyped satire of poets, philosophers, and misanthropists, and further that it has Knever yet been satisfactorily demonstrated why an aristocracy of birth is any better than an aristocracy of cash. On the contrary, she appeared to be consider- ably impressed with what Du Barry was saying.   300     TO-DAY: A ROMANCE. "I shall not attempt a profession," he continued. "I once thought of the law; but my poor friend Castle- ton-don't you think he has changed greatly?-quite  frightened me from it. One visit to his office was enough, and I paid two or three. No. I cannot endure the thought of becoming a mere partisan. It lowers the dignity of our nature. It may make the mind more acute, but it can no longer be comprehensive; it grows narrower day by day." "I don't think that can be so with Mr. Castleton," replied Clara. She could not help saying that.  "You would not perceive it, of course. But I cer- tainly do, when we engage in any philosophical conver- sation. No. I can no longer endure the thought of becoming a lawyer."  "In that I agree with you," said Clara. "It does seem to me a disagreeable profession." "Belittling to man's noblest aspirations," said Du  Barry. "I can quite understand you," said Clara.! "I think I shall devote myself to writing for the  present. I have much that I would like to say to my  countrymen," remarked Du Barry, with an air of superb egotism. "Oh, I hope you will. I do think you ought to," said Clara, earnestly, looking, at the same time, in her com- panion's face with enthusiasm. "Do you-do you really think so? then I am de- cided."   RECEPTION IN THE,METROPOLIS.      301 It was at this point of the conversation that they again passed the place where Castleton was seated, and it was at this moment that his companion exclaimed: "See 1 And he did see. There could be no mistaking the look of unqualified interest which was on Clara's face, nor the satisfied expression which marked the countenance of Du Barry. Castleton's presence of mind had returned. His train- ing displayed itself. He looked at Mrs. Delaine, and smiling, said in a perfectly natural tone: "A very inter- esting picture." "You think so?" I think so." He remained silent. This time he had taken the trick. Mrs. Delaine was at a loss how to resume con- versation. Not long though, for she was fertile in expedient. She appeared to be reflecting earnestly. At last she spoke. "Mr. Castleton, you have said that you are not vexed with me for what I have done. I fear, however, that I have annoyed you, and I am very sorry." "I confess your remarks seemed a little extraordinary; but I assure you, I think no more of it." This was uttered in a strictly polite, conventional way. "I am losing ground," thought the lady; "I will regain it." "If what I said seemed extraordinary," she replied, "it is because the interest I take in you is extraordinary.   302     TO-DAY: A ROMANCE. I knew I was saying what you might think unwar- rantable, but you needed that some one should say it, and whatever you may feel at this moment, I am more than content to have done you a service. I have roused your pride, and I do not believe you will humble it to Miss ? Dighy."' Mrs. Delaine rose as she spoke, with an air of fashion- able indifference to the subject, giving our hero no oppor- tunity to reply. At the same moment one of the elegans of the ball-room approached and solicited her to join him. She gave a careless bow to Castleton, and was soon in the whirl. She danced a long time without intermission, and never appeared (so many said) so fascinating as on this occasion. As she stepped aside for a moment to allow a friend to put a pin in a flounce which showed symptoms of giving way, she encountered Mr. Pulsifer, who had come in to look about for a few minutes and pay his respects to-  the supper. "Repairing damages; riring dring damages," exclaimed the lawyer. "Life is spent in repairing damages."  "Just what I should expect to hear from such a gloomy creature as you," returned Mrs. Delaine. "' Why' don't you look on the bright side, and say 'Life is spent in beautifying, beautifying?' "  "Appropriate, very appropriate in your mouth, my dear madam." The lawyer passed on. He worked his way through the different rooms, glancing at all that was going on. He discovered Clara and Du Barry, he saw Castleton.   RECEPTION IN THE METROPOLIS.      303 who had joined a couple of gentlemen, and was chatting with them. He seemed to enjoy his little excursion. He made his own reflections, and having partaken moderately in the supper room, went home. The party had broken up. Castleton did not encounter Clara again. "It is all over," he said to himself, as he took his way homeward. "Thus ends the dream of my youth. Why not? Why should not Clara prefer Du Barry to me? He is fresh and buoyant, while I am already yoked to the car. Has it really come to this? Is that woman right? Do my friends begin to sympathize with me? Enough. I will root out the very memory of this destroy- ing passion. Henceforth the world's duties claim me." It is to be remarked, when young men are disap- pointed in love, they are apt suddenly to surrender to the claims of conscience or ambition-very generally the latter. Formerly, they went into a cloister or to the wars-to court oblivion or fame. In this less turbulent period, they turn missionaries, or enter the lists to seek distinction in the world's affairs. When morning came, and found Castleton once more in his daily routine, it occurred to him that perhaps he had been too fast. Why should he judge Clara too hastily? So hard is it to give up an object which is dear to us. So hard to abandon hope, and welcome what seems to be despair. ' ,   804     TO-DAY'  A ROMANCE. CHAPTER III. WILLIAM HOLT TO REMOVE FROM THE SIXTH AVENUE. "'MOTHER, were you not a fashionable young lady before you were married?" "I believe so."  "You were considered beautiful, too?" "Why, William, what possesses you to ask such  questions?" Holt continued without replying. "Father was a handsome man, was he not?" "Very handsome." "I wonder how I came to be such a repulsive-looking creature." It was spoken low, in soliloquy, but his mother heard it. She rose, and going up to him, threw her arms about his neck. "Nobody looks so handsome to me as my own boy," she said, and she kissed him tenderly. "Other folks see with different eyes," said Holt. "What do you care, my son, so long as you know how you seem to your mother?" The good woman forgot to make allowance for feel- ings which spring up at Holt's age.   WILLIAM HOLT REMOVES.        305 You were the child of many sorrows," she continued. "You know your father died before you were born.' The recollection was too much for her. She sat down, quite overcome by it. IIolt did not stir. He looked toward his mother gloomily. He was in one of his "moods." "I met uncle Lansing to-day in the street," at length he said, with a bitter emphasis on uncle. "He does not know me. One of these days he will know-me. When I am as rich as he I shall ask him why he treated you so." His mother made no reply. "It is coming quicker than you think for. The first of January will do it." "Do what?" asked his mother faintly. "Make me a partner in the house." "Really?" "They can't get on without me, that is it. I secured the patent to-day. My own invention; I never told you about it (he began to speak naturally again) for fear it might fail, but it is all right." The widow left her seat the second time and stood close by her son. "I thought something had gone wrong," she said, ' you were so strange." "Mother," said Holt, " when we were very poor, and I was doing a boy's work in the factory, I never thought how I looked, or if I did think I did not care. Now, when we have all we require, and I know I shall  certainly be rich, that is, if I live, I think continually what a scarecrow I am."   306     TO-DAY: A   OMANCE. "O William, it is wicked to talk in this way. It seems ungrateful to Providence." An impatient expression escaped Holt's lips. "Are you not content with your mother's love?" she continued. "Content!" he exclaimed fiercely, "it is my life." She kissed him again, but said nothing. "I am going to take a house," remarked Holt. "You are! "Yes. There is one in Thirty-ninth street, between Fifth and Madison avenues. It will be finished by the first of February." "But how can you furnish it?" "I am to receive a sum in ready money for an interest in my patent." "Indeed!" "It is a handsome house," he continued, "and the neighborhood is fashionable (he laid a particular stress on the word), and your uncle Lansing lives exactly opposite." "O William, what a strange boy you are!"  She smiled, nevertheless, as if she were quite content. "IHere it is," said Holt. He drew forth a large parchment, which his mother regarded with fond eyes, thoiogh she did not in the least understand What it, was. "Is that a patent?" "Yes." She looked at it curiously. The immense eagle broad- spread over the words--"United States of America," the   WILLIAM  HOLT REMOVES.      307 name-"William Holt"-and the large seal particularly attracted her attention. "You never told me a word about it, William," she said, reproachfully. "I kept the secret well, didn't I?" "Indeed you did.' "Mother!" "What, my son?" They were sitting very close to each other, looking at the large eagle. "I wish father could have seen this." It was uttered in a voice so gentle that you would have thought some one else was speaking. The widow rested her face on her son's shoulder. With his hand he smoothed the hair, which, still glossy and beautiful, was parted over her forehead, and-a strange thing for him-he imprinted a kiss on it. He recovered quickly, as if ashamed of the exhibition. ' I want you to furnish the house according to your own taste. Some folks will stare." He began to walk up and down the room in his usual fashion. "Don't spare expense." His mood changed again. "Can't you be fashionable again, mother? Do you remember how you used to feel when you were fashionable? what you used to do? You have waited a great while, haven't you?" Something absorbed him. Perhaps he was thinking of Virginia Randall. Whatever it was, it was soon over. "Mother, you used to know a good many folks here, could you not renew your acquaintance with them?"   308     TO-DAY' A ROMANCE. "I suppose I could, if I were situated so as to do so, But it is many years since, -William, a great many years." "Whom did you know?" "Oh, a number. Mrs. Delorme and I were very inti- mate; she was Mary Stanley. We were very fond of each other. She used to come and see me at Scotenskopft before she married. And she continued to write me for a long while, but I did not answer her letters."      I "Why?" "Because it was impossible to keep up the acquaint- ance on equal terms, and I did not wish to be an object of commiseration in her eyes."  "Good. Don't you think she would be glad to see you?" "She would be. delighted, I am certain. So would Mrs. Decatur; she was Emily Phelps; and many others whom I could name."  "All first-class?" asked Holt, grimly. "First-class, of course," replied his mother, with a pretty touch of pride-pride which had smouldered with- out sign for more than twenty years, now to flicker up again. "Did you know the Du Barrys?" "Yes. Mrs. Ferris was one of my schoolmates, and a very nice, amiable girl. I was never very intimate with her, though." "This Alf Du Barry, who has come home, appears to me to be a jackanapes," said Holt. "You used to like him at school." "That was because he was Castleton's friend. I have no faith in him."   i   WILLIAM HOLT REMOVES.        309 "Have you seen him?" "Yesterday for the first time. He stopped me, and began like the rest to be patronizing-d-- ' Holt bit his lip to prevent the imprecation from escaping in his mother's presence. "Who else do you know?" "Oh, a great many, William.  The tIortons and Lawrrences and Dezings, and ever so many. "' Promise me, mother, you will cultivate them all as soon as your house is furnished." Mrs. Holt gave a little laugh. It was a very con- tented one. After years of privation and submission, a glimpse again into the refined and elegant world she had been obliged to leave was very pleasant. "Yes, I will promise," she said, with a smile, "if you mwill make me a promise." "What?" "Not to speak any more about yourself in the wav you did a little while ago." " Oh, you must not mind it. Just let me have my own way. I want you to live in a new house and have every thing fine, so that things may seem as they did when you were a young lady--that is, as far as they can seem so. I shall have nothing to do with that. Yotz must be in the fashion. I shall go on in the old track." ' William, how strange you talk." "Now, mother, you must not oppose me in this. I have worked hard to compass it. Let me enjoy seeing you carry it out." "Indeed you shall, my son."   310     TO-DXY: A ROMANCE. "Well, you must be thinking what your furniture shall be; you should begin to look about now. When the house is ready, I want to move right into it." He took his hat. "I am going out. I shall be gone  an hour."' He left abruptly, but it was his manner. His mother sat in a maze for several minutes. She could scarcely credit this new revelation. Many strange fancies flitted through her mind. Past and Future were strangely jumbled. She looked sad, then she smiled, looked serious, and smiled again.             i! Presently she rose, took off her widow's cap, smoothed her hair, and looked in the glass. What made her do that? Something very simple and innocent. She wished to see if she were still presentable -wished to satisfy herself for her son's sake. The result of the inspection, I imagine, was satis. factory.   HOLT'S EVENING   WALK.      3" CHAPTER IV. HOLT'S EVENING VALK. ON reaching the street, Holt took his way across town, and kept on almost to the East river. He stopped before one of the poorer class of tenement houses, went in, mounted to the top, and knocked at the door of the back room. It was opened by a young fellow eighteen or nineteen years old. "How is your mother to-night, Abel?" Holt entered the room without waiting for an answer. It was a familiar place to him. For three years he had occupied with Abel a trundle-bed placed every night in an adjoining closet. Abel was the boy whose menial duties-he had been permitted to share in Abbott's factory. And here it was that Holt found a home-I say home, for he found kind feeling and good treatment and companion- ship in poverty. At that time Mrs. Frost had five children. Now she had but two. Bad air, meagre food, and a scanty supply of clothing were what the three died of. The doctor reported pneumonia, dysentery, and scarlet fever. This poor woman had suffered from the same causes; but by   512     TO-DAY: A ROMANCE. the medical man her ailment was pronounced to be " cgeneral debility."  A girl sixteen or seventeen sat by her bed. She was thin and pale. By close application she earned thirty-five cents a day, out of which she had to board and clothe herself. I am recording no new tale. Indeed, it is so trite and commonplace that you will exclaim that I have no origi- nality to touch on so hackneyed a theme. Yes, you know all about it. You read cljust such accounts in the newspapers, with the variation sometimes that the policeman of his beat finds the woman dead; and no one who can afford to bury her. Of course, you have read and heard a great deal constantly repeated. But tell me, in GOD'S name, what have you clone, what acre you doing about it? i You give to societies. You build marble retreats fobr the sufferincrg. These are well enough, for aught I know. But the poor vant your human sympathy. They require personal words of cheering, showing you feel an interest, not that you are performing a duty in what you (do for them; proving that whatever your condition is, you recognize the fact that you are partners with them in the heritage of sin and death, and in the great redemption which overcomes both. "I Mother is asleep."  "Good."  "She has seemed better to-day." ^: "I thought she would be better." "And she has more appetite."    HOLT'S EVENING WALK.        313 "All right." "Dr. Castleton has been here." "He has, his he? What did he say?" "He said there was nothing the matter with mother. She only needed rest and nourishing food." "I told you so. tWhat else?" "He said to throw away the medicines; not give her any." "Better and better. There's a doctor for you." "He said she did not need any doctor." "Good again. Abel, I must go now. Come down to thIe street with me." Holt said " good night," and followed by the other, retraced his steps down the four flights of stairs. Comino' where the gaslight enabled him to see more plainly, he counted some money into Abel's hand, and gave him directions how it should be applied. "Better times for you in the factory after the first of January, Abel." I-e turned on his heel and took his way homeward. He did not perceive, neither did Abel, that two cut-throat looking fellows were watchingl him  from  a doorway opposite, whose eyes gleamed malignantly at the sight of the money. Holt walked along   slowly. He felt more cheerful than usual. The night was fine and clear. Such a night as is the glory of our New York climate in the early days of December. Holt buttoned his coat to his chin (he wore no over- coat) as he went on. "   314     TO-DAY: A ROMANCE. "Do yon run up the other side, Jim, and cut over and ask him what time it is, and I'll sail in." It was arranged accordingly. The man passed rapidly along, got in advance of Holt crossed over, and sauntered down to meet him. The latter at this time slackened his own pace still more. He seemed to be enjoying the cool air. While "J im" was preparing for his demonstration, the other ruffian advanced with stealthy steps in Holt's rear. As Jim  drew near, he attracted Holt's attention. The man's aspect put him on his guard, so that when he came up and was about to address his victim, he was met with a look so sinister that the ruffian cowered before it and passed on. "What the h-1 is the matter?" "Nothing. Only just you try him, if you wants to." Terrible oaths followed; but the explanation was probably satisfactory, for the men turned into the next street and disappeared. Holt pursued his way, unconscious of the peril he had escaped. He entered Broadway at Twenty-third street, and stood where he stood ten years before, when he launched himself resolutely at fate. It was a fine spectacle. The lights from the hotels and shops and saloons shone brightly. The street was full. The air was just bracing enough to put every one in spirits. Even the mendicants forgot their customary whine and begged in a cheerful tone. The consequence   O0LT'S EVENING WALK.        315 was, they got a great deal more than usual-pity they could not remember it. Overhead the stars glittered brilliantly. Few in the great city looked in that direction. Holt certainly did not. He cared nothing for the stars, nor indeed for any thing above, below, or BEYOND. He thought only about the earth he stood on; thought fiercely, vindictively. His last chance interview with Virginia Randall (the reader may recollect it) had made him desperate in that quarter. Outside his home he cared for nobody, except Castleton--he had helped him to his place--and the widow Frost and her family-they had harbored him. Toward every body else Holt cherished bitterness. Ho had as little sympathy with poor as rich. He looked at the world's movements as those of some great machine, urged by a force he did not profess to explain and about which he, cared nothing. "Give me a penny, Boss? just for luck." "Get out of my way, you little devil," exclaimed Holt savagely. The boy-he might have been ten--uttered a yell as if he had received a blow, and put himself quickly at a safe distance. Then he stopped and pointed with his finger, screaming out, "Squint eye-old squint eye." "Come here," said Holt in a pleasant voice, while he felt in his pocket. The boy approached warily; he was not to be caught by chaff. "Take that," said Holt, extending toward him a half- dollar.   316     T-O-DAY: A EOMAJNCE. The boy advanced cautiously. "What are you afraid of, you little fool? I give you this because you are a young Satan, and know how to call names." The lad took the money without a word and ran off. He stepped into the first shop and changed the piece for two quarters; then his mind was easy. Just then Graves came out from  Slaack's famous saloon. He had been indulging in a julep. "How are you, Holt?I' he said. It was neither "Bill " nor a Cockee. " "Look here, Graves," said Holt, "I was in an ill- tempered mood when we met some time ago. I told you not to call me Cockeye. That was all nonsense. I had as liefyou would call me so as not. Indeed, I had rather you would. It seems more like old times." "Well, you were a little rough with us,' returned Graves; "but I thought about it afterward, and made up my mind we were getting too old for nicknames; so let it be Holt," he added carelessly. "Cockeye; really now I prefer you would say Cock- eye," continued Holt, in an insinuating tone. There was something in it which made Graves feel uncomfortable; but he replied, "All right." Then, for the sake of saying something, he exclaimed: "i Mrs. Enos Foote gives a blow-out to-night. I must be off. Good evening." "And that's the jackass Virginia's in love with," muttered Holt. He walked along Fifth Avenue--it was not the route   HOLT'S EVENING WALK.         317 he generally took,-and as he advanced a few blocks, he passed Enos Foote's residence, and encountered the usual preparations of carpeted sidewalk, and temporary en- closure. His first impulse was to cross the street, the next, to keep on his course. As he came up, two or three handsome women were descending from a carriage. The door of the house was thrown open, and a strain of exquisite music struck his ea(Ir. Holt inherited his father's love for sweet sounds, indeed, much else which made the artist's life very happy, but which, with his son, had turned to bitterness. The music entered his soul, " between the joints of his armor." He could not resist its power. It carried him out of himself, and made him forget who and where he was. As he paused insensibly to listen to it, the way was stopped by the passage of the ladies, who had descended from the carriage. The one nearest Holt was Virginia Randall. She noticed him, and bowed amiably. It recalled the man" to his senses. He returned the bow and pushed rapidly on. It was many years before he saw that beautiful girl again, and Holt could not help remembering that it was when they were quite alone together, that she treated him brusquely, or, as he fancied, contemptuously, but that her recognition of him, as she came to Mrs. Foote's, in full dress, with all the surroundings of wealth and fashion, was prompt and unmistakable. When Holt reached Thirty-ninth street, he walked I9  )w   318     TO-DAY: A ROMANCE. along it and stopped before an unoccupied house. He appeared to regard it with interest. He looked into the area and up at the cornice. His movements attracted the attention of an old gentleman going into the house opposite. He rang his bell, and when the servant came to the door, he said, "Thomas, keep watch of that fellow across the way, he looks to me like a burglar. If he does not move on, tell the policeman." The old gentleman had no idea it was the person who would soon occupy the house, and whose mother was his niece, whom he used to call daughter, and on whom, while a young, affectionate, lovely girl, he had shut his door.   DU BARRY BECOMES DISTINGUISHED. 3L9 CHAPTER V. HtOW DU BARRY BECOMES DISTINGUISHE'D. Du BARRY made good his word pronounced to Clara with an air of so much profundity. He prepared a series of articles for the Copernican Monthly, entitled the "Divine Cognation," and which the publishers of that famous magazine hailed with great satisfaction, regarding it essentially as foreign matter. For in their predilection for such material, they showed how liberal were their views and how entirely unpreju- diced. I have never read these articles, having been much occupied at the time of their publication; indeed, I confess I do not quite understand the meaning of the title. I only know, for three or four months, they occu- pied the place of honor in the Copernican, and that they were 4 very highly spoken of 'by the "press," and that the editor of the --  Blatter (with whom Du Barry had become well acquainted over their daily lunch of kartoffel- salat, and lager) translated each month several sentences from the "Divine Cognation," with extraordinary com- mendation. "There was something to be hoped for (I quote verbatim) from the literature of this country when such articles as these appeared in a New York magazine,   320     TO-DAY: A ROMANCE. written by a native-born American." The Copernican printed this commendatory opinion in their advertise- ments, and took much credit for" discerning and appre-  ciating the presence of a great scholar and genius among 'IS." An essay on "Subjective Fitness " was equally well received, and also an article'on the '"Infra and Supra." After these important successes, Du Barry was per- suaded to descend sometimes to lighter themes. The result was the Copernican published a romantic piece called "The Brocken and the Rhine." I read it at the time. It was admirably written, and very interesting. What further satisfied me that my judgment was correct was that some time after, being myself on the other side, I saw the very same article in an old German weekly newspaper. Really, I can not imagine how it could have got there, except by being translated from the Copernican, which doubtless has a large circulation in Germany. Miss Dighy gloried in these publications-that is, privately. I have stated distinctly that she was a very clever girl, and it was not easy to propose any thing she could not comprehend. But the "Divine Cognation " took her off her feet. She could no more fathom it than if it had been written in the original tongue of the builders of Babel. But she saw the praises bestowed on it, and was content. She could not help looking up to Du Barry as a superior being. I do not wonder that Clara was somewhat mystified, for Du Barry had compounded his series from several   D U BABRY BE:COMES DISTINGUISHED. 321 abstruse lectures of several abstruse professors in such a curious way, that neither, I think, could ever have reclaimed his own property. It was a great bore to our hero, the getting up of these articles; but he saw in it a way to impress Clara Dighy. In this, we see, he succeeded. "The Brocken and the Rhine " she enjoyed immensely. After reading it several times to herself, she asked Du Barry to read it to her. The fellow had a fine and well-intoned voice. "Oh, how I wish I could see the Rhine!!" exclaimed Clara. ( I have been looking a whole year for a suitable opportunity to go to Europe, and I have met with none. It is too bad, when there is nothing else to prevent." Du Barry wanted exceedingly to suggest a way, but he felt it would be premature. a I must wait. I must be patient, and I shall secure her." That is what he said to himself. -"   322     TO-DAY: A ROMA:NCE.;r CHAPTER VL WHAT SENT CASTLETON TO EUROPE. THAT was the gayest season ever known in New, York. Many of my readers will remember it-the year Fooly absconded and Terwilliger committed suicide by blowing his brains out over his wife's handsome carpet and hang- ings. He did it to spite her, so she always declared, for he knew her attachment to that particular piece of tapisserie. I never believed it. I have always thought the man was driven to desperation by difficulties and perplexities in his business and torment at home. It is a hard thing to withstand both, and many strong men break down under the " home influence." In my opinion, wh'at hastened Terwilliger's end was his wife's determination to give a grand ball, which should exceed in splendor one by her hated rival, Mrs. Peter Craworthy. Terwilliger had said flatly that he could not afford it. "You must afford it. Have you no regard for the social position of your family? Here is Louisa just come out, and you are so mean and avaricious that you grudge us the means to enable us to live respectably." Terwilliger turned sadly toward his daughter, in whose   WHAT SENT' CASTLETON TO EUROPE.      323 presence these harsh words were spoken. He fancied she looked as if she were sorry for him, but she did not speak. "Wife," he replied, with a firmness he did not usually display toward her, "I cannot let you have any money. lMy affairs are in a desperate condition, and I do not know what to do." Hle uttered this as if suffering agony of soul. "Pshaw! it has been the same story ever since we were married. I don't believe you are any worse off than you always are. You are perpetually groaning and com- plaining." "But, Jane," he said, in a tone calculated to soften her, "you have no idea what difficulties I am in." c' It is a man's business to have difficulties, and to sur- mount them," retorted his wife, g'and not whine about them at home." ' I do, I have surmounted them," gasped Terwilliger, "up to now; but I am now in great trouble, and I fear I can't get through." "Can't get through! What do other men do? They get through, and don't trouble their families about it, either." "For God's sake, Jane, don't go on in this way. I can- not do more than I can." "Suppose you can't I What are four or five thousand dollars more or less? I don't want a great deal of ready money. A large part of the expense we will have credit for. Give me three thousand dollars this morning, and I will try to get along with that. In fact, I mutst have it.' "I cannot give it you; I have not got it."   324 .    TO-DAY: A ROMANCE. "Then borrow it."  "I cannot borrow it."  "We have come indeed to a pretty pass. You are get- ting to be an imbecile. This party I shall give. The cards are ordered and the time fixed. Everybody knows about it. Let me see if you dare disgrace us." Terwilliger glanced at his child again; she said noth- ing, but sat with downcast eyes. It was a very unhappy spectacle. He left his house, unable to speak. He was choked. He endeavored in vain to swallow. His lips were becom- ing parched, and he frequently tried to moisten them with his tongue. This crisis might come any day. He was terribly involved; but his courage would not have failed him, if he could have found any comfort or sympathy at home. And now, as he was walking to his place of business, it was not the troubles which he knew he must meet when he reached his office, that he was thinking about, but the scene he had passed through before leaving his house. An hour after her husband left, Mrs. Terwilliger received an unexpected call. A friend of the family, an old lady not at all in society, sent in word she would like to see her for a moment. She was admitted. With many apologies for coming at so early an hour, she stated that she was to quit town for Boston at twelve, and she wished to leave with Mrs. Terwilliger a package of bonds to hand to her husband to put in his safe. How much was in it?   WHAT SENT- CASTLETON TO EUROPE.     325 Five thousand dollars. Would she be long absent? She did not intend to return before Spring. She would write to Mr. Terwilliger where to send the interest when collected. "I will put the package in our private safe, where our silver is kept," said the lady, "until my husband comes home." "Many thanks. Good-morning." No one was present at this conversation, save the par- 'ties engaged. After it closed, Mrs. Terwilliger sat a few minutes absorbed in thought. At length she took the package, tore off the covering, and examined each bond, to see if there were any marks to indicate the ownership. She found none. She next event to her room, and put on a plain walking-dress. She did not order her carriage, but took an omnibus to her husband's office. He saw her enter, and dreaded what was to follow. She had come for the three thousand dollars. What should he do? He took her in a private room. "George," she said, and no one could speak more win- ningly when she chose,' George, I have good news. Here is something which will help us both. Take these and give me three thousand dollars." Terwilliger looked over the bonds. "Why, Jane," he said, " how did you get them?" "Never mind how I got them. Give me the money, quick. It is all right."   326     TO-DAY: A ROMANCE. But what am I to do with the bonds? To whom do they belong?" "It is enough that I bring them to you. Ask no more questions, or I shall go somewhere else to transact my business. On the whole, give me thirty-five hundred dol- lars. Louisa will require the other five hundred." She' knew the child's name was potent with her husband. The man was quite taken aback, so that he almost me- chanically followed his wife's directions. The money was procured and given to her. "I wish really," he said, as she was leaving, "'you would explain this to me. I ought to know about it." ': I will tell you by-and-by. I 'say it is all right, and that's enough." In this way the woman raised the necessary cash out- lay for the ball that was the talk of the whole town. The old lady who had left the bonds with her wrote to Mr. Terwilliger sooner than the wife anticipated, about where to remit the interest when due. The letter arrived the day after the ball, and the day (it never rains, but it pours) which proved a final collapse in the poor fellow's affairs. He saw the thing at a glance; saw how he had been made to take the poor woman's sub- stance; he knew he could not make it good to her; there could be no explanation except that he was a deliberate knave-a robber-worse, he had plundered the widow and the orphan. The ball was a damning circumstance; all his credit- ors were talking about it. Every body was talking about it. The accumulated trouble was more than he could bear.   WHAT SENT CASTLETON TO EUROPE.      327 He may have been seized with a sudden frenzy, or he may have adted deliberately when he committed suicide. God forgive him. I said that was the gayest season of all, and, despite the indications to the contrary, old Enos Foote weathered the storm, while the purlieus of the, stock exchange were strewed with the wrecks of the terrible contest in which a powerful combination attempted to drag him down. Young Prince, the millionaire, forged other millions to sus- tain the corner. The crime was discovered. He was sent to the penitentiary, and thus the siege was raised. These events brought an accumulation of business of the most lucrative kind to the law office in Nassau street, -now Pulsifer & Castleton-for the former had changed his idea of only allowing his single name to appear, as he had changed in many other things. It was high time for him to look after his junior part- ner. He was working too hard; absorbing himself liter- ally in what he had to do. Terwilliger in his lifetime'had important relations with some of Pulsifer's foreign clients. His sudden death com- plicated them seriously. It would be well that some one familiar with the affair should see them at once. Pulsifer decided off-hand. Without any break in their friendship, Castleton, since the party at Mrs. Foote's, had gradually seen less and less of Clara.- She tried, when they did meet, to preserve the semblance of their old friendship. But what would you have? Du Barry was entirely devoted to her, and she   328     TO-DAY: A ROMANCE. was becoming more and more interested in him, Lovers are selfish beings, and that is all need be said about it. At times Castleton would come back to his old resolu- tion of having a full understanding with Clara. He felt that it would be a relief, if he could tell her how much he had always loved her. His pride saved him this avowal. Besides, Clara did her best to avoid an eclaircissement, and possibly the influence of Mrs. Delaine helped to prevent it. Castleton had gradually come to see more and more of her. She was adroit enough not to make further allusion to Miss Dighy. She quietly did every thing in her power to cause Castleton to feel at ease in her house. He Would often drop in of an afternoon, when the arduous work of the day was over. At such times, he could not help en- joying the atmosphere of that palatial residence and the society of its fascinating occupant. She, on her part, was very careful not to do any thing to frighten him away. She concealed her own feelings. She did not at first profess to sympathize with him. She treated him just for what he was; a young man of genius and intellect who promised to become great. He was made to feel at home in various ways. If Mrs. Delaine was not in when he called, he was not permitted to turn away. There was the library, the evening paper with the lounge, or the picture gallery. Or if she were in, she did not always come immediately into the room, but would leave him quite to himself, sometimes for half an hour. In this way she secured frequent visits, and the   WHAT SENT -CASTLETON TO EUROPE. 329 happiness of seeing him learn, by degrees, to treat her with a cordial and natural familiarity. It was a blissfil triumph. She dared not betray her- self; lest she should alarm him ; but she continued to throw her delicate toils around this neophyte in love, hoping to secure him in the end. You do not wonder, do you, that our hero yielded insensibly to an influence so subtle and insidious that no trace of its design was tangible? To have a life's devotion suddenly passed on with indif- ference, or with the calm of friendly pity, will shake the soul's foundations and stir the pride. To be at that mo- ment recognized for what you are, and treated according- ly, is very satisfying, especially if there is not mixed with it any show of sympathy. Besides, beauty, fashion, wealth, with all their sur- roundings, are seductive, and always have been.   330     TO-DAY: A ROMANSCE. CHAPTER VII. THE VOYAGE "Castleton!" "Yes." ' This is Tuesday morning." "Yes." "The Scotia sails for Liverpool to-morrow at twelve. You must go in her!" "I?" "Yes. I have thought it carefully over. The -- Trust Company are involved in this dreadful business. This will complicate the affairs of Staller & Marks, and I don't know what next. You must run over and see them." Castleton's heart beat high at the thought of a sudden change of scene. He had always entertained the idea of a short trip to Europe before settling to work, but had come so imperceptibly in harness that the voyage was not made. "How can I possibly leave at this time? Norris' case is on for to-morrow, and we never had so much to do." "I will take care of every thing. I can say what I  have to say to you in thirty minutes, and this evening you can make out a full memorandum for me."   THE VOYAGE.         331 Thus the matter was settled, and Pulsifer went straight to his work. Before the half hour had gone, he had fin- ished. "All this will occupy you twenty-four hours after you reach London, possibly forty-eight hours, and your work will be done." c; No doubt. I will be with you again in a month." "Not under three months. That is the extent of your vacation. I am going to lay out your tour." "But three months will not give time for a trip over Europe. I may see London and Paris, although, I am told, it takes a year to know much about them." "That is some of Du Barry's fol de rol. The idiot has been in Europe all his life, and I Will be bound, when you return, you will know more about it than he does." "Rather an extravagant statement, that." "Not at all. I mean what I say. It takes a wise man to understand that a part is better than the whole; often a very small part. Glimpses are every thing. They awaken, they excite, they stimulate; we enjoy them with- out satiety. I have been twice abroad. Flying visits, both times, which I enjoyed to the utmost. Glimpses, nothing but glimpses. I never shall forget passing at midnight through the old town of Rouen, in Normandy, No railways then. The diligence was brought to a halt for twenty minutes. It was a bright night. After swal- lowing a cup of coffee, one of the hangers-on of the cabaret told us the cathedral was but half a block off, and we should have time to go to it. No one stirred but myself. I gave the fellow a few sous, and he pointed out   332     TO-DAY: A ROMAN CE. the spot. I hurried to it. There stood the magnificent pile, marvellously conspicuous by the light of the moon. I looked at it a moment, and went in--Catholic churches are never closed, you know--I walked the entire length of the cathedral, through entrance, nave, and choir. I stood, and saw how the moonbeams, falling on the painted glass, displayed the old illuminations, saw about me pictures, and chapels, and statues of saints, and the Christ, and the Virgin, and just then heard the conductors horn sounding for departure. "I sprang out. I had seen enough. Do you think I would exchange that glimpse for a whole day of careful inspection? No, indeed." Any one who had listened to Pulsifer at that moment would have given full credit to his assertion that he had been a romantic young fellow. "So through life. I speak of enjoyments," he con- tinued. "We should sip, not quaff; delicately touch, not handle. To come with delight, to leave with regret; to feel you never see enough; to not investigate--I mean, no picking flowers to pieces to find the perfume--to keep always a reserve force and something perpetually before you, is the secret of enjoyment. Glimpses, glimpses." Castleton smiled. "I half suspect," he said, " that you have improvised this whole affair out of a not very neces- sary or urgent business. I shall assuredly follow your suggestions in partaking of the entertainment, since you are my host." "Good. I want you to do what folks are always laughed at for doing. When you are in London, drive    THE VOYAGE.         333 around two, or three, or four days like mad. You must scamper to Rome. Your most enthusiastic glow will be when, like Paul, you get a sight of it from the Three Taverns. You might almost afford to turn back at that moment, but you may as well look inside St. Peter's and tread the Coliseum, but no investigations. Quit by the Appian TWay, and think over your classics. After that, look at the Nile. You will readily get to Cairo, not further up, though. Keep on the go, and muster all the guide-books that can be had into your service. Not for immediate use, but when you return. Then for years you may have a charming occupation, in reading up on where you have been. With your glimpses to aid your imagin- ation and the guide-booksto help you locate your fancies, you -will have secured the true charm, the very aroma of travel. I will look in on you about nine this evening. Andt, let me make a suggestion, we will say nothing about this little trip till you are off." "I don't think there will be much opportunity," said Castleton, smiling. "Ahem! you know what I mean, no bidding good-by and so forth. Not worth the trouble." "I think I ought to run in and see Du Barry, he lodges very near me." "As you like, but----" "Miss Dighy, you were going to say; she left town yesterday for a week's absence.", "How exactly he knows all about it," said Pulsifer, , musingly. ",Well. I will not keep you longer. This evening at nine."   334     T O-DAY: A ROMANCE . Castleton spent an hour at the office to put certain matters in shape. Then he started on his walk home. Perhaps it was by sheer habit that as he came to Mrs.  Delaine's house, lie stopped and rang the bell. Perhaps he felt that courtesy required, after her many attentions, he should tell her he was about to leave town. He passed into the library, no one- was there, he turned into a species of boudoir adjoining, it was a favorite place where Mrs. Delaine liked to sit. As he came in, her musical voice greeted him. "You are late." Very simple words, but interpreted they meant a great deal. They showed that Castleton came so often and so regularly that this deviation was noted and spoken of, spoken of familiarly, with a touch of reproach. She was seated in an exquisite little fancy chair, a book lay upon her lap, and as she looked up at Castleton, her very eyelids were suffused. She had never before permitted herself to exhibit such signs of intense feeling. She had them always at command, but they had been kept in abeyance. Why she had concluded to advance her lines on that particular day, I do not know; but I do know she had been an hour deciding just what pose to assume. "You are late." She held out her hand as she spoke; it was very white and beautiful, with fingers tapering in a perfect proportion, without rings of any sort, just the simple, warm flesh and blood hand. Castleton held it in his own for a moment, and made no reply. He felt, he hardly knew how. Suddenly her   THE VOYAGE.          335 relations seemed to have changed toward him. How young she looked that moment, how innocent, how loving and trustful! I cannot tell what would have been the result of the interview had Castleton's head not been full of his trip- some sort of denouement, doubtless, for it is evident the lady had been preparing for it. As it was, after the moment's pause, the spell was broken. "I have come to say adios. I am going away." She turned very pale. "What do you mean?" (s I sail in the Scotia to-morrow." "With whom?" "A large number of passengers in general, with no one in particular." "Do you really go alone?" She wa-s still mortally pale, but her eyes flashed dan- gerously. 'C Why not? Don't you think I can be trusted across the sea?" "And you will not sit down?" "It is but two hours since this was decided, and I really have not a moment." He sat down, nevertheless. Mrs. Delaine rose quiet]y, and took a seat by him on the sofa. She suddenly assumed a look of the greatest interest. "Tell me about it," she said in a low, intense tone, which implied confidences between them. At any other time Castleton would have noticed it, but his thoughts were on the voyage and on nothing else. Mrs. Delaine sat very still, listening in a timid, child-   336     TO-DAY: A ROMANCE. like, half-frightened manner to his brief explanation. This manner was partly assumed, partly as she had of late really begun to feel. "And what am I to do if you go? What will become of those dreadful business matters?" Castleton could not help laughing. ' You seem to forget that Mr. Pulsifer is still here." "No, I do not; but I have learned to rely on you so much in every thing that I cannot bear to have you leave me even for a few months." The tears were starting. She put her handkerchief to lier eyes in the prettiest manner possible. Castleton was decidedly embarrassed. A more ex- perienced man would have understood the scene. He did not. Mrs. Delaine was vexed at his stupidity; but she could do no more than keep her beautiful lace kerchief to her face, and utter a pretty little sob. Castleton took the hand which was not employed, and which lay innocently near him, as if waiting his touch (he was really sorry for her), and pressing it kindly, he said, I am much grieved that you feel as you do. You know I am to return very soon, and then we will totally rout your enemies, depend on it. Good-by." She did not look up nor change position, except to raise the hand which Castleton released, so that her face and kerchief were now buried in both hands, adding to the effectiveness of the scene. In this way she allowed him to leave without a word.   THE VOYAGE. -        337 When he had gone, the lady kept her posture for a minute from sheer vexation. "What a strange man! frigid as ice I but he is not frigid, I know he is not; else his presence would not tan- talize me so. I am glad he is going abroad. He will learn something. And when he returns, ah " Once outside the house, Castleton breathed more freely; though he felt as if a coil had in some way been thrown around him. Hurrying on, he came where Du Barry had his lodgings. He caught him just as he was going to his dinner, and told his errand in a word. Du Barry was astonished. He fancied he had' the monopoly of Europe, and here was his old friend about to trespass on his territory. "When do you return?" he asked. "In about three months." "Three years, you mean." "Three months." "Really, Castleton, for three months it is not worth your while. Trust me for that, who know Europe." "I dare say, but I have decided. You speak too late. If I pass through Nuremberg, I will have my eye out for the Commissionaires who infested your way so much." "Nuremberg!" exclaimed Du Barry, changing color. "Nuremberg! You really don't expect to get to Nurem- berg?" "I am sure I don't know. I shall be all the time on the run; if I can spend a day in your favorite town, I would like to do it." 15   338     TO-DAY: A ROMANCE. "Oh, there is nothing which would interest you there for an entire day, nothing; besides, it is out of the beaten route s "That is why I should like it. If I do go there, I will leave your card with your friends, and try to treat the commissionaires as you did." "I would not recommend the Baierischer Hof, You will find the Wittelsbacher Hof, near the post-office, much more convenient." "Thanks. I have not the least idea whether I go there or not, but I will not forget." "Let me put the name of the hotel down for you." Castleton, long after, had reason to recall the fact that Du Barry appeared particularly anxious when he spoke about Nuremberg and of the hotel, but at the time he thought nothing about it. He said "Good-by," and the visit was over. Neither took the least satisfaction in it. When Castleton announced at home that he was to leave the next day, the doctor gravely proposed to give him letters to Velpeau and Louis, and his mother suggest- ed an excellent preventive for sea-sickness. To Americans, unexpected changes are such a matter of course, that Castleton's announcement produced only some congratulatory remarks about his pleasant vacation, sand some directions in the laundry, relating to the young gentleman's linen. The next day Castleton was on the steamer, tossed about in a manner not altogether personally satisfactory,   THE VOYAGE.          339 but which he was content to make the best of, since there was no help for it. He was cut off from all relations and associations with the world. Outside of the ship every thing appeared to him a blank. And in becoming interested in what was immediately around him, the vessel, the crew, the passen- gers, and the element they floated on, he seemed to forget he ever had, or ever felt an interest in any thing else.!   340     TO-DAY: A ROMANOCE CHAPTER VIII. A SHARP ENCOUNTER. Two or three weeks after the sailing of the Scotia, Pulsifer met Miss Clara Dighy as he was leaving a house which she was about to enter. The two were always pleased to meet, for the lawyer's remarks were fresh and entertaining, and Clara's replies piquant and attractive to him. On this occasion Pulsifer did not exhibit his usual dis- position to stop for a brief chat with his fair enemy, as he used to call her. "A very charming day," that was all he said, as he was passing down.    ' "Very. Pray tell me, Mr. Pulsifer, what sent Mr. Castleton to Europe in such a hurry?" "Why do you think he went in a hurry?" "I saw him just as I was leaving town, only two days before be sailed, and he never spoke of it." "There it is again.  Woman's logic. Put your two statements together, and tell me how it proves he went in a hurry." "Because," retorted Clara with provoking coolness, "I think he would have told me had he known he was going."   "Well, well, if that is the- case, it is time to look into it. A very safe young gentleman I have for a law partner, whose relations with a lady are such that no important move in our office can be kept secret from her." "I am glad you have discovered the danger; fore- warned, forearmed." "Have you no further questions to ask? ': "I dare say, but you did not answer my first. It was perhaps a little impertinent. I withdraw it. Is it con- sistent with the rules of your office to tell me how long Mr. Castleton is to be absent?" "Between seven and eight years," replied Pulsifer, gravely. "I think I once heard you say there is nothing so beautiful as truth," returned Clara. "Then you will appreciate the beauty of my observa- tion. Time is measured by events, emotions, experiences. Castleton will stay abroad till he has seen as much and learned as much and felt as much as an ordinary person would in seven or eight years." Clara was piqued. She knew Pulsifer referred to Du Barry, when he spoke of seven or eight years, yet she was not willing to show what with her nature it was difficult to conceal. "I am glad the Sphinx permits some sort of explana- tion to escape him, even if it is a ridiculous one." "Wherein ridiculous?" "In assuming that Mr. Castleton is superior to every- body else."   342     TO-DAY: A ROMAINCE. "Don't you think he is?" "No."  "Tell me frankly, don't you think Castleton superior to every young gentleman of your acquaintance save one " "And if I do?"-defiantly. "Why you are nearly right. Throw out that one, and you would be quite right." "Thank you."-She began to look angry. "You wont do it, though?" "Really, Mr. Pulsifer, I do not understand you,"-- with much hauteur. "Nothing so beautiful as truth." "What do you mean, sir?"-ireful and indignant. "I mean to say this, Miss Clara Dighy. You are car- ried away, infatuated I may say, by an unworthy object. You are about to make shipwreck of happiness-total shipwreck. Be warned in time. Good morning.  The old lawyer hurried down  the steps and walked away, muttering, "That's off my mind. It won't do the least good, however.?'                  ! Clara was in a towering passion. The insolence of the man was insufferable. She wished she had a brother to resent such impertinence. The next time  she met Pulsifer she cut him in the most decided manner. The latter was right. What he said did not do any good. It only confirmed Miss Dighy more firmly in her feelings. I do not say she did not miss the presence of a noble (   A SHARP ENCOUNTER.         343 spirit, who was to her always the same high-minded, dis- interested friend. But if she did, it is because the sex are never ready to give up an admirer, but engross, without conscience, all who will worship them. Du Barry continued his devotions, but he was too wary to be precipitate, for Miss Dighy, infatuated if she were, was not to be won by a coup. It often occurred to Du Barry to allude to the time when he took leave of her at Scotenskopft, but he reserved this little bit of machinery for some telling occasion. His idea was to treat it with seriousness, and at the proper time to avow that from the period of his boyhood, when he went into exile, up to that very minute, his heart had been wholly hers. An observation of Clara one day made him alter his plan. She was ridiculing a desperate love affair between two very young people-a mere boy and girl-without thinking it might well apply to the old incident between them. Du Barry joined in. "The Germans," he said, " call this 'calf-love.' I have often amused myself," he con- tinued, in the most careless manner possible, "thinking of my grand attempt at leave-taking, when a lad I came to bid you good-by before sailing. - You have forgotten it, I dare say. I am sure I shall always remember it, your repulse was so up to the mark. You could not do it better to-day," and Du Barry laughed heartily. Clara was considerably annoyed, for she had laid this little affair up as one of her heart treasures, which young ladies keep very sacred; she disliked to have it profaned   344     TO-DAY: A ROzMANCE. by such an allusion. She felt obliged to laugh, but she made no reply, and looked very serious the rest of the interview. When Du Barry went away she tormented herself with the idea that he really did not care for her , "3 -       L   MRS. HOLT IN HGH LIFE.       345 CHAPTER IX. MRS. HOLT MOVES TO A FASHONABLE QUARTER,. THE house in Thirty-ninth street, between Madison and the Fifth Avenues was finished by the middle of Jan- uary. Mrs. Holt had been engaged for several weeks previous, selecting the furniture, porcelain, plate, and et ceteras. Notwithstanding the long years of seclusion and pov- erty, she took readily-to the task. It was a happy sight to see the little woman, dressed still in black, but with exquisite taste, driving from shop to shop, to accomplish her pleasant duty. She encountered a good many of her old acquaintances, who were not slow to recognize her changed fortunes. She had already renewed her acquaintance with two or three of her most intimate school friends, and when the house was furnished, and she had moved in it, she was astonished at the number of cards that accumulated on her table. Still the widow Holt did not forget the days of her adversity. She would have preferred a more retired, a less ostentatious life; but to please her son I think she would have undertaken any thing,-even the round dances. The old gentleman over the way appeared to take a 15*   346     TO-DAY: A ROMANCaE.,  great interest in what was going on. He inquired of his man the name of the new comers, and was told it was  Holt. It did not, in this connection, raise a thought of his niece, whom he had for years utterly lost sight of. But  when, one day, he met Mrs. Holt point blank at the cor-  ner of the street (she had thrown aside her veiD, and with the freedom of age had stared curiously at her, he was struck with the extraordinary resemblance to his niece. He went home in a brown study. He began to cate- chise Thomas.   "Do you know  any thing about our    : neighbors opposite 9" Now gossip flies fast, and our servants are apt to know much more than we do ourselves. Thomas, long since, was in possession of the whole story; Mr. Dezing's coachman had told him the very romantic history.  It had been told the coachman in the most sentimental style  by his mistress' lady's maid, who had it from Mrs. DezingS herself. That lady was very intimate with Mrs. Holt when she    was Gertrude Lansing, and had sympathized with her  in her love affair with the artist, and was in raptures to  hear of her reestablished fortunes. You may be sure, therefore, that the tale was not told to the advantage of Mr. Lansing, the uncle, and that it lost nothing in the  transmission from one servant to another.         -- When, therefore, Thomas was directed to ascertain something about the new comers, the occupation was that of carrying coals to Newcastle. But he betrayed no knowledge of the subject till a few days later, when the   MRS. HOLT IN HGH LIPE.       347 old gentleman, still pestered -by the resemblance, which continued to haunt him (I don't wonder it did haunt him, for his wife was an invalid and he was childless, and it made him recall Gertrude's happy, innocent face) again put some question to his man, the latter looked queer and hesitated, and finally ventured to speak. " did hear, sir, but folks do talk strange, you know, sir, that the gentleman and his mother be some relations to you, sir, that is to say, sir, used to be, sir, a great many years ago, sir, but in course, sir, you would best know about that yourself, sir." "Relations? what sort of relations? Tell me just what you heard, Thomas." "Well, sir, you will excuse me, sir, but I did hear how that the lady, that is Mrs. Holt, sir, had been formerly, I mean very many years ago, sir, certainly by no means now, sir, leastwise not of late years, sir--" "Out with it. What are you hanging back about, twisting yourself into a double ampersand!" Thomas looked frightened. "Why don't you say what it is? Do you think I care for the tittle-tattle of the neighborhood?" "In course not, sir, that is why I never spoke about it, sir, but I will inquire, since you tell me to, sir." "Inquire! Why, you have the whole story at your tongue's end. What the d-1 is the matter with you? Proceed!"I "It is nothing at all, sir. They only say the lady used to be your niece, sir, but that was a long time ago, sir."   348     TO-DAY: A ROMANCE. * "Used to be! I should like to know, if she used to be my niece, what she is now?" "I really cannot say, sir," replied Thomas, demurely. "I tell you what it is, Thomas, other people appear to know a good deal more about my family affairs than I do myself, and I advise you, for the future, to be careful how  you listen to their nonsense.'"  With this reprimand, Thomas was dismissed; but the old man was uneasy.  That night he woke and thought how pleasant it  would be if such a sweet-looking little lady, as he saw op- posite, formed a part of his family. And for the first time it occurred to him that he had made a mistake.  He would not have thought so had he been told his : niece continued to struggle with destitution, or had died in the struggle. There would have been no repentance then. But to see her emerge into the world his equal in society, so attractive, and with so many friends, why, in this view of the case, he was ready to acknowledge his error. He went to sleep again, cogitating how he could bring about a reconciliation. It seems he formed a very simple scheme to effect his  object. He observed that Holt invariably walked home. He managed, therefore, to put himself in his way one  afternoon, as he was coming along the Avenue. "Good evening, sir," he said blandly. Holt nodded. "I think, young gentleman, we ought to know each other."  There was no reply.  "I say I think you and I ought to be acquainted."   MRS. HOLT IN HGH LIFI.       349 "Do you?" "I feel quite sure now you don't know my name," -very good-natured and quizzical. Holt stopped short, and looked fixedly at the old gen- tleman, who also stopped. "I do know it, though," he repliedi presently. "But you don't know who I am, for all that,"-a little triumphantly. Holt again turned on the questioner. "I know you," he said, " for a bad, selfish old man, who treated with a refined cruelty a young, tender girl, who had been taught to call you father. Don't flatter yourself that I am igno- rant. I have kept watch of you all my life, waiting for just this moment. Go your way. Do not dare to speak to me again, else I shall be tempted not to regard your gray hairs." Without waiting for reply, or further demonstration, Holt strode rapidly across the street, his face working with rage, his hands clenched, and his long arms swinging to and fro. It was some time before Mr. Lansing could recover sufficient self-possession to proceed. He stood looking after Holt as the latter walked furiously on, and exclaimed several times, "God bless me!" Thomas, who had witnessed the whole scene from the corner, as he was returning from an errand, remarked to' Mr. Dezing's coachman, that when his master came home that day, he was " completely flabbergasted "   350     TO-DAY: A RO!MANCE. CHAPTER X. H OL T AT  CHURCH.  WILLIAM HOLT came and went to the new house as he formerly came and went to the rooms in the Sixth av- enue. He avoided his mother's visitors, while he took the greatest pains to provide for their reception, and ap- peared to glory in the success of his plan to restore her to society. His mother understood this, and did not attempt to interfere with his moods. He occupied a back room in  the upper story of the house, where was placed a single iron bedstead, covered with a hard mattrass. Two or three necessary articles made up the firniture. Here he slept, and here, with the book he happened to be engaged with, he would go and spend the time, if there was com- pany in the house; when they had left, he would descend  to a little sitting-room, his mother's favorite resort, and remain there. No  matter what he was doing, he pre- ferred always to be with her. And so time passed.     i One grievance filled the widow's soul. It was Wil-   1 liam's unbelief. She dared call it by no other name. He never attended church.  He shrank from any allusion to religious subjects, and a sneer was on his face at the men- tion of a clergyman.   HOLT AT CHURCH.         351 In their period of unrelenting poverty, Mrs. Holt for. bore to remonstrate with her, son. But when his fortunes changed, and wealth flowe, in on them, she could no longer postpone what seemed to her an imperative duty. One evening, therefore, as they were sitting together, she approached the subject. "William, do you never intend to go to church?" Holt's frame appeared convulsed by some internal emotion. He perceived that his mother had resolved to open a subject he hoped would be forever sealed. He did not at first answer; but seeing that she waited for a response, he said in a low tone, "Why ask me?" "Because, William, I must do it. It is the source of great unhappiness to me that you exhibit a disregard of sacred things." "I do not disregard things I consider sacred, but I detest priestcraft and all other hypocrisy." "And do you never intend to go to church?" "Never." Mrs. Holt rose and essayed to leave the room. She really hardly knew what she was doing.   The stern, severe "Never "  fell on her ears like some irrevocable doom-doom for her child. It was the first harsh word he had ever spoken to her. Through all their hardships and sufferings, despite his fierce, ungovernable temper and passionate outhreaks, he had never spoken to her a word before with such an emphasis. She felt she could not endure it, and attempted, as I have said, scarce knowing why, to leave the room. She only reached the door. Then leaning against it,   352     TO-DAY: A ROMANCE. she gave way to her grief in a burst of passionate demon- strations, in sobs and tears and hysterical groans. Holt rose and walked up and down the little apart- ment. His look was hard-hard as stone. Up and down, down and up, with an expression which got to be almost demoniacal. Suddenly it changed. He stepped up, and laid his  hand on her arm. "Mother, I will go." She did not appear to regard him. The paroxysm had got control of her. "Mother," he repeated, o you not hear me? I tell you I will go." She appeared a little quieter, but it was evident, for the moment, she could not respond. "Mother," exclaimed Holt, "for God's sake, do not go on so. Speak to me!" "Why do you say for God's sake, William, if you don't believe in a God?" she asked, looking at him for the first time. "Nobody dares say I do not believe in a God. Did you hear me tell you I would go to church?" "No, no; did you tell me so, William?" "I did."  He passed quietly out of the door as he spoke, unwil- ling to prolong the scene.  He resorted to his usual method for restoring his composure, a walk. "I would go into hell to save her a single pang," he j muttered between his teeth, as he descended to the side- walk, " why not into a church? there is my oath to the   HOLT AT CHURCH.         353 contrary, but I will break it, if it is to make her feel easier." When he came home, about ten o'clock that night, he was in his ordinary mood, and greeted his mother quite as usual. -( Abel, where do you go Sundays?" "Do you mean to what meeting?" "' Yes." "Same one always." "I forget about it." "Methodist meeting-house in -- street." "What time does it go in?" "Half-past ten in the morning, half-past three in the afternoon." "Good preacher?" "First-rate. Ain't afraid of any body. No kid glove or fancy soap. Won't you come and hear him?" "I rather think I will." And Holt went. He saw a small, middle-aged man enter the pulpit not in any way remarkable in appearance. After the usual exercises, to which Holt paid not the least attention, the preacher announced his text: Matthew vii. 20. C"Where- fore, by their fruits ye shall know them." The subject was one which would naturally attract Holt. The discourse was fragmentary, and altogether practical. I subjoin some brief extracts from it. "My friends," said the minister, "people are all the time trying to make creeds and forms answer for good deeds. As I have often told you, there is no intrinsic   354     TO-DAY: A ROMANCE. virtue in either, any more than there is piety in the mere act of coming to church. I don't know the various mo- tives which may bring you here to-day; but the great- question is, what fruit do you produce on week-days? Answer me that! Never mind Sundays. It is the six days of the week I ask you about, and if they are spent in a perpetual selfish strife without a thought of doing some good, do you believe you will be any the better for coming here on the Sabbath day? I doubt it. It only goes to show your hypocrisy. It is as much as to say, I will pay up for six days' service of the devil by putting on my Sunday coat for a few hours, and crying, 'Lord, Lord.' "Look over the world, and apply these words, 'By their fruits ye shall know them,' fruits which bear from day to day and year to year not a single last gasp crop. There is a great deal of that going on. A man, after a long life of selfish acquisition, without a generous emo- tion, but always having the one object, namely, how to get the best of a bargain, or an 'operation,' when he finds it is time to leave this world, and he knows he can- not use his capital in the world to come, I say'such a man often turns philanthropist, and gives money here and gives it there, and his name appears in the newspapers, and monuments are raised to him, and he goes down to the grave with great glorification. "Now what would our Lord say to such a man? He would say, 'Friend, you had no right to amass all that wealth. You are now three-score and ten, and during the   HOLT AT CHUtRCH'.        355 fifty years in which you have been getting it together you have neglected my work, you have done and permitted much evil all those fifty years, and have become, by rea- son of your great possessions purse-proud, vain, and self- ish, and now, as you are about to die, you seek still to aggrandize yourself by giving away what no longer be- longs to you." "Ah, brethren, do not put off your good performances till fear of the judgment urges you. Let your daily lives overflow with kindness to one another. Then we shall have heaven upon earth.  Seek not to acquire great wealth. If you are prospered, distribute as you go along. It is by the personal effort of every human being to be good, and not by preaching, that the world is to be reformed. A great preacher, or a great lecturer, or a great moral essayist cannot do half the good that one sincere disciple of Christ does who lives according to the law of love." Holt was a good deal surprised to find he had been listening to the sermon, and that it was already at an end; He stopped, curious to look at the preacher as he passed out, but he could perceive no mark of conscious- ness or self-sufficiency in his bearing. He turned away, disappointed with the scrutiny. He had calculated on discovering something in the preacher's   356     TO-DAY: A ROMANCE.  face which should not accord with what he had been say- ing, possibly which might give the lie to it. He walked home slowly with his long arms behind him. The next Sunday he went to hear the same man again!    BOOK VI.   In the tide Of so long time, if mid the easy flow Of wished events some tyrannous blast assail us, What marvel? 'schiylus.-.Agamem., 592.   BOO K      VI. CHAPTER   I. EVENTS REASONABLY TO BE EXPECTED. THE reader must imagine the lapse of a twelvemonth. We will give a brief resume of the year's occurrences. Virginia Randall married Charley Graves a few weeks after the- famous party at Mrs. Enos Foote's, and return- ing from the usual wedding excursion, the young people went quiety to live with Virginia's parents, the income of Graves being scarcely sufficient to support himself, much less the fine lady who had now become his wife. Virginia was very happy. She loved her husband, and loved to be at home. Graves was never so content. He never had so easy, or so comfortable a time before. Randall was engaged on a very heavy railroad con- tract in the West, and was obliged to be a great deal absent, so that Graves had almost entire control in the house. Indeed, he considered himself quite the same as if he were the proprietor. Considering Virginia was an only child, whose wishes had always been regarded by her father, the fellow was not far from right. By his marriage he had stepped into the enjoyment of a fortune without even the trouble of managing it.   360     TO-DAY: A ROMANCE. He soon quitted the house of Flint & Collet, where he enjoyed a good salary, and set up to be a broker in a small way, on his own account; with what success, we shall presently see. Ellsworth was deeply chagrined at the triumph of his rival in carrying off the only girl he had ever really cared for. He began to entertain a subtle hate toward Vir- ginia, because she had trifled with him, and he resolved many bitter things in his mind. In a few months he married a homely and very commonplace girl with a large sum in ready cash, and thereupon was admitted a junior partner in the house of Jacob Illingsworth & Co. Virginia laughed when she heard of Ellsworth's marry- ing " that fright." The next time they met in society she congratulated him warmly, and was particularly polite to Mrs. Ellsworth, remaining a long time with her, either from sheer amiability, or that Ellsworth might see the difference between the two. Castleton returned from his European tour after an absence of a little more than three months. Following Pulsifer's suggestions, he had kept constantly on the move, and saw much more than was in his original pro- gramme. Pulsifer was in raptures. He- no longer feared for his protege. And he was right. Castleton had come back with his eyes open to a wider circumference, his no- tions of men and things expanded, and his sense of what was before him greatly enlarged. Besides, there is nothing so well calculated to help ad- vance a young man of decided merit and ability as a genu-   EVENTS THAT MfAY BE EXPECTED.       361 ine disappointment in love. It serves to settle disturbed and unequal sympathies; it fills the. soul with high resolves, it nerves the resolution to combat all conceivable obstacles. I do not suppose for the sake of securing these desir- able ends, any young man who reads this will be willing voluntarily to expose himself to the contingency; but let him be comforted if he mzcst do so, that there is in it this consolation. When Castleton returned, affairs had so far advanced between Miss Dighy and Du Barry that every body said they were engaged. The report was premature, but it might become true any day. Castleton accepted it. HHe was shaken to the foundations, but the shock passed, and left him serene, ready to reap the advantages I have so benevolently depicted for the consolation of disappointed lovers. When he called on Clara, he treated her with the familiarity of old friendship, but with none of the devo- tion which had marked his previous conduct. Miss Dighy was quick to perceive the change. She was of a nature too noble to be piqued by it, yet she was too much of a woman not to feel a secret regret. She was astonished to see such an improvement in her old lover, and all with- in three or four months. It was not perceptible in any particular thing, but in his entire presence and bearing. He was a little encrusted before in mannerism. This had dropped from him as if by magic. As for Du Barry, I regret to say, he treated his friend with a good deal of superciliousness when speaking of Europe, and advanced his own opinions almost offensively, 16   362     TO-DAY: A ROMANCE. as if whatever Castleton might think after so rapid a tour, amounted to just nothing at all. Mrs. Holt had been particularly fortunate in renewing her acquaintance with her old friends, and in extending it. It was marvellous what a favorite she became, and how every body suddenly discovered what a s" charming, sweet, fascinating dear little creature she was; so lovely and disinterested; so perfectly lady-like, and so aristo- cratic." The fact is, she crossed nobody's path, she was in no- body's way. She had no design in any thing she did, except to gratify her son. So that she did not provoke the jealousy even of the most envious, or ill-natured. At the same time, her soirees were delightful, and her re- unions of the most select description. It was to be observed, that you met there many artists of distinction, men who, years before, while "Holt " was enthusiastically at work at Scotenskopft, could be found, during the summer scattered in various nooks and quarters of the country, scene hunting, and in the winter occupy- ing all sorts and sizes of ateliers, which they ambitiously styled studios, and where they labored persistently for fame and a modicum of ready money. Here were now assembled the successful ones [where were they who, perhaps equally deserving, had gone down in the struggle?], all of whom, of course, remem- bered "Holt." They spoke of him with much affection, and praised him to the widow without stint. I need not   EVENTS THA T MAY BE EXPECTED.       363 say how happy this made her, and how she redoubled her efforts to please such dear friends of her husband. In fact, there did not assemble in the whole town so agreeable and positively so high-toned a set as that which met weekly at charming Mrs. Holt's. The fame of these receptions began to spread, so that many who were not acquainted with her eagerly sought an introduction. Mrs. Holt's good nature would certainly have yielded to these flattering overtures, did not her son occasionally inter- pose. Without appearing to notice what was passing, he kept a careful watch, and thus maintained the exclusive- ness of his mother's salon. Castleton's views, on coming home, were considerably changed as to his position vis a-vis the fashionable and fascinating Mrs. Delame, but not in the way that lady had counted on. He called on her within a reasonable time after his return, but his customary and almost daily visits were not renewed. She, on her part, was more desperately enamored than ever. The alteration in Castleton was just what was re- quired to perfect him in the eyes of the beautiful woman of the world. How bitterly then was she disappointed to find him no longer visiting her in his old familiar way. She did not at first exhibit any sense of this. She was a first-class strategist; and did nothing precipitately. On the contrary, she toolk time to consider. It, led to a care- ful reforming of her lines, and a skilful preparation for a fresh attempt. The outposts which she had once actually captured,   364     TO-DAY: A ROMANCE. she found, to all appearance, well fortified, and in a condi- tion to resist surprises. In vain she resumed her frequent consultations about the great lawsuit. They proved only consultations. There was no longer opportunity for avowals of personal interest about Castleton's attachment for Miss Dighy. His relations with that young lady were settled beyond any question. What then was to be done? She must resort to a coup de main. Thus much for the year which we rapidly pass over, in order to raise the curtain on new scenes and more exciting incidents.   THE BALL IN MOTION.        305 CHAPTER II. THE BALL IN MOTION. WHERE WILL IT STOP? RANDALL, the railroad contractor, had, as already intimated, embarked in a large operation in the West. He had secured an immense contract. It embraced the construction of the entire line, for which he was to receive in 'payment the first mortgage bonds of the road at a very low figure. He calculated on clearing a million, at least, out of this enterprise. He had always been very successful, and he had never had so large or so favorable a contract as this. But the pitcher may go once too often to the fountain, and be broken. The banking house, and it was an eminent one, on which Randall relied to place his bonds failed, with a large amount of these securities, which had been entrusted to them, in their possession. Randall had made a most favorable arrangement with this house, by which he was to receive all the money necessary to carry out his work. The agreement with the bankers put him quite at his ease, and left him free to exercise all his energy in push- ing the construction of the line. A}!   Agreements are nothing but pieces of paper, when the makers' names become worthless. Randall not only was   366     TO-DAY: A ROMANCTE. forced to look about for new parties to furnish money; but he suffered much loss and inconvenience in having so large an amount locked up with the bankrupt firm. He was not a man to succumb at the first blow. He had resolution and nerve. Failing for the time to secure the desired cooperation, he sold, with quick decision, his house and furniture in New York, and some other valua- ble property, to put himself in ready funds for the imme- diate demands of the work, and prepared to remove his family at once to the West, the better to devote his whole time and energy to it. Virginia was his only child, his darling. He wished her to accompany them with her husband. He would give Graves a confidential position in his general office. He required, more than ever, some one in whom he could place implicit trust, so that nothing appeared more oppor- tune than his suggestion. Graves, however, was unwilling to leave New York. Virginia, whose character displayed itself on the occasion, urged and implored him to do so. She used every argu- ment and every appeal, but he doggedly resisted her. "Father!" she exclaimed, "I will go with you and mamma, if you think I can be of any service to you." "No, my child," was his reply; " since your husband decides not to go, it is your duty to remain with him. Your mother and I are used to vicissitudes, don't trouble yourself about us. I shall put all right in a twelvemonth, and then we will all come together again." When Mr. and Mrs. Randall quitted New York, Graves took his wife to the Fifth Avenue hotel, with   TlE BALL IN MOTION .        36'7 which establishment he seemed perfectly delighted. Vir- ginia did not like hotel life at all, although she was the most attractive young woman in the house, and all of Graves' gentlemen: acquaintances-and he had a great many-were very polite to her. This was now not in the least to her taste. While a young lady, she certainly made every effort to retain as many admirers as possible; but when she married, her conduct changed, in toto, disappointing a good many gentlemen who were counting on some very agreeable flirtations. Virginia felt the loss of her home deeply, but she tried to prevent her husband seeing that she was suffering from the change. It was not long before the young man realized the difference between living on a most liberal scale at his father-in-law's house, without the least expense, unless to pay his tailor's bills, which he did not do very regularly, and actually supporting himself and his wife at one of the most expensive hotels in the city, where bills are "pre- i  . - sented weekly." I will say this for Graves. He tried to do his best. He sought business with considerable pertinacity, and even brought himself to call on Ellsworth, now a prosper- ous stock-broker, and ask him in an off-hand way to give him whatever outside orders he might have. Ellsworth received his late rival with more than usual cordiality; he had previously heard of Randah's bad luck; he asked him to sit down, and managed, by a show   368     TO-DAY: A ROMANCE.            ' of sympathy, to worm out of him just how he was situated.                        A We have very few outside orders to give," he said, at the conclusion of the interview; "but rely on it, I shall certainly send you what we do have." Nothing could seem fairer; yet after Graves got in the street, and recalled the whole scene, he felt, he knew not why, dissatisfied and half sorry that he had called.  As for Ellsworth, when the door closed on his old friend, a look of malignant triumph passed over his face, and he said to himself, as he mechanically took out his  watch, regarding it intently: "I will give him six months."  Alas! the most expensive house and double lot in New York will not go far toward building a railroad.  Randall knew this better than most people. What he hoped when he sold out was to "bridge over" a short  period, when he would make fresh arrangements for capital, and pursue his course without even the semblance  of an interruption. But the bonds lodged with the fail- ing house began to appear in the market, and were sold  at a greatly depreciated price. This was a blow to immediate negotiation, besides, it  alarmed the railroad company. The directors began to fear that Randall would not be able to carry out his  contract, and as is almost always the case, they took steps calculated to prevent his doing so. They declined issuing any more bonds, though he  "' jI   THE BALL IN MOTION.        369 was in no default; unless security, was given for the faithful appropriation of their proceeds. Randall, though indignant, tried mild and persuasive means. It did not avail. Then he resorted to the courts for redress. There are few who do not know what that means. The railroad company which, without a road, amounted merely to a paper charter, was soon shorn of its vitality, and Randall (in business parlance) ruined. He was not a man long to stay in such a condition. The country was wide, and enterprises numerous. He was about to turn his attention to a new project, which presented a very favorable aspect, when he was seized with bilious fever, which carried him off in a few days. This sad event happened in a rude, straggling village, if village it could be called, on the line of the road he was working so hard to construct. Iis wife, always devoted, was with him; his daughter, whose name in his delirium he constantly pronounced, was a thousand miles away, and did not hear of her loss till after the funeral had taken place. The poor girl's senses came near leaving her; but when she recovered from the shock, all the show and tinsel which had been before conspicuous had disappeared, displaying in its true light a noble and earnest soul. Before the sad intelligence reached New York, Graves was at his wit's ends for money. His wife had no idea of economy; she had never been taught it; and was there- fore scarcely to blame for continuing her ordinary expend- itures precisely as she did when living at home. The 16*   370     TO-DAY: A ROMANCE. bills at the hotel accumulated. Graves managed to stave  I them off by one excuse after another.            I At last, after borrowing small suums in various places, I he had recourse to the pawnbroker. He would mend his fortunes in a few weeks; that was what he said to Vir- : ginia as an excuse for asking for her valuable jewels. They were given freely, with all the unreserve of a gen- erous nature; indeed, with little reflection either, until ! she was left with nothing of value; even Graves' elegant lever watch was disposed of, and a ten-dollar ': Oroide" substituted. But they retained their rooms at the Fifth Avenue Hotel, and to all appearance affairs flowed smoothly as ever.                     ii' Only Ellsworth, who secretly watched their ebb, knew by signs, to him   unmistakable, that the change   : was near.                         j: The death of Randall precipitated the crisis. Vir- ginia awoke as from a dream. She appeared suddenly to have learned the s life lesson." It was a terrible blow, when these realities came on her; but instead of giving  .. way, her nature, after the first awful shock, rose superior to circumstances. She insisted on quitting the hotel, but how to do it?  X Graves was indebted there a very considerable amount,     for which all their effects could be held. By leaving two of Virginia's immense trunks filled with valuable dresses, shawls, and laces (she had no use for them  now, poor thing), they  got away, and  took moderate board in another quarter of the town, where Virginia, dressed in  ; deep mourning, commenced on her melancholy life.     !I   THE BALL IN   MOTION.      371 After a week's reflection,-the time seemed to her a century,--she decided that they must leave New York. Her mother could not come to her, she could not afford it; besides, she had to remain and see if any thing might be secured from the wreck of her husband's fortunes. Graves would not at once give up the idea of a New York life. He behaved very well though, and was very kind in his demeanor, appearing to regard his wife's feel- ings much more than usual. He said he would make one more trial, that failing, he would consent to quit. He had determined to humble his pride, and make a strong appeal to Ellsworth for a considerable loan. He called on his old schoolmate early one morning. He was at liberty. The latter knew precisely the errand Graves had come on. He received him very pleasantly, and patiently heard his story, and his application for a loan of a thousand dollars to enable him to start again in a small way. Ellsworth was very sorry, pained, I may say, that it was unfortunately out of his power to assist him; but he was bound by the articles of copartnership not to make private loans; and thus it was simply impossible for him to aid his friend. Graves was learning fast. He felt the ground begin to slip from under him. He endeavored to grasp at some- thing. He resolved to depart from New York, even as his wife desired. He summoned all his resolution, and placed his situation exactly before Ellsworth, who lis- tened attentively, and with apparent sympathy. "Lend   372     TO-DAY: A ROMANCE        . me two hundred and fifty dollars," he said, "so that we  may leave here, and join my wife's mother."  "It is a very hard case, I declare" said Ellsworth, ?i drawing a long breath. ' I would like to accommodate you, not only for your sake, but for your wife's sake, for i we were children together. At the same time, Charley, you know you are very careless with your money; I was going to say reckless, only I don't wish to hurt your feelings at this time, especially; but to tell you the truth,  if you think seriously of quitting New York, and you require my aid, I would prefer your wife should call, and talk the matter over with me by herself; you must not be vexed; you know how you always did make way with money"                          i ' The blood rushed to Graves' face. He started to his - feet, and clenching his hand, he raised it threateningly.-  "Harry Ellsworth, I have half a mind to smash y-rr face for you for what you have said. Take your Bfit-ers off i that bell, or I will do it. Just you give me now the slightest provocation, if you dare."           " Ellsworth was not a coward, but the "junior partner " could not afford a brawl within the sacred precincts of  I the bureau. Graves' blood was up. Evidently he was    I capable of dangerous acts. Like all men of easy nature, it required an extraordinary spur to excite him, but when ! fully roused his temper was fierce and uncontrollable.  % Ellsworth understood this, and waited quietly, after the i first impulse, for his adversary's rage to expend itself. Graves at last paused for breath.  i%   THE BALL IN MOTION.        373 "Have you finished?" asked Ellsworth, in a tone whose calmness was enough to set Graves on fire again. "No, I have but just begun. I want to tell you that you are a ----!  It is needless to reproduce these epithets. They were of the most severe and stinging description. I do not think Ellsworth would have borne them; but as Graves concluded, he turned and left the room, nearly upsetting in his fury the " head of the house," the quiet and sedate Mr. Illingsworth, who happened at that moment to be coming in. Leaving Ellsworth to make what explanation he chose, his temples swollen, his face flushed, his pulses beating fiercely, Graves came out on the sidewalk, and stood for a moment irresolute. The sight of the throng pushing hurriedly in all direc- tions recalled him to his miserable situation. He made a strong effort to be composed. Then he resumed his labors, namely, the attempt to borrow a considerable sum of money. It was in vain. Every body seemed to know of Ran- dall's death, and to understand the situation it left Graves in. He thought of applying to his father, but he was an overworked man, with not a dollar to spare, and years before Graves had taxed him to the uttermost. There really was no hope in that quarter. ' Thus the day passed, and late in the afternoon the poor fellow dragged his feet slowly to his boarding-house. His first impulse was to tell his wife about the day's   374     TO-DAY: A ROMANCE.              adventures, but a manly feeling checked it, and he-said l nothing. He did not sleep the whole night. The revulsion had brought to him very suddenly a new vision, whereby his past life was opened up, and he could see how he had thrown away his advantages, see, and bitterly lament. His wife slumbered peacefully. He rose whittle after midnight, and paced the floor of his chamber till morning. Then he sat down, and, taking his pen, wrote as follows: "'I am obliged to go out very early, and- do not wake ; you because you are sleeping so well. Will be home in  good season.             CHA:RLEY.  He placed this where Virginia could readily see it on ; rising, and left the house.               : He walked up and down various streets till ten o'clock, as if trying to make up his mind to something  disagreeable. It would seem he succeeded, for he tookl his way with a rapid and decided step to the counting  room of Jacob Abbott, now Abbott & Holt, and asked for Mr. Holt. He was engaged, and Graves had to wait nearly half an hour. It seemed to him a year. At length he was , told he could walk in the private office. As he entered, Holt looked up. He could not help observing marks of the severe mental suffering which Graves was enduring. He said, "How are you? take a seat." Graves did not sit down; he could not do any thing  ; so deliberate.   THE BALL IN1 MOTION.        375 ' I called to ask if you would loan me two hundred and fifty dollars.." Holt hesitated. The appearance of suppressed agony in his visitor prevented the sneer which would otherwise have been visible. His indecision, if indecision it was, continued but for an instant. He replied in a measured tone: " I am not willing to do it, Graves." His manner was decided, but neither harsh nor biting, nor in any way calculated to wound the applicant. Besides, a straightforward reason was given. "I am not willing to do it; " not "I can't do it," or "C our articles of copartnership prevent." Strange to say, the answer, so far from discouraging Graves, inspired him with courage to renew the request. "Perhaps if you knew the fix I am in, you would be willing," he said. "Sit down." Holt pointed to a seat, which Graves accepted, while the former assumed the attitude of one prepared to give attention. Thus encouraged, Graves truthfully stated the situa- tion in which his father-in-law's death and his own- improvidence had placed him, and his determination to go with his wife to the West, if he could raise means sufficient for the purpose. "Why do you come to me?" asked Holt in an icy tone. "Because I have tried everywhere else, and failed," retorted Graves, with a despairing energy which startled even his questioner. "Ellsworth?" demanded Holt, after a pause.   376     TO-DAY: A ROMANCE.              "Don't mention the name of the d-d scoundrel," exclaimed the other in an excited voice. "I made up my mind never to speak of it, but I must tell somebody, or I shall murder him yet." Thereupon he gave an account of what passed at the interview, with which the reader is already familiar. Holt listened with an interest impossible for him to con- ceal. When Graves repeated Ellsworth's proposition for Virginia to call on him, a paleness overspread his face, and he held his breath while waiting to hear what was Graves' response.                        : He sat a few minutes absorbed. "Does your wife wish to go?" he asked, at length. "Most emphatically she does," exclaimed Graves. " Tell me, Graves," continued Holt, "do you really , want to quit New York and go to work? Are you will- ing to rough it? Have you thought seriously of the mat- ter?" Holt! exclaimed Graves, starting to his feet; "just hi only help me to get away, and I will show you whether I  am or not. I am a changed man,--a changed man within  t twenty-four hours."        i.  , "Enough.' Now listen to me. I happen to have a quarter section of land not far from where your mother- J! in-law now is. There is a small comfortable house on it, : ? and the place is already stocked. The property was taken ! in payment of a debt which I made for the concern some  time ago, and I preferred to assume it, and have the place X charged to me. Now, Graves, on one condition only will  I help you."                  ' *      ^li   THE BALL IN MOTION.        3" 4' What is it?" demanded the other suspiciously. "Be quiet till I finish. I say, on one condition only. I .will, through a third party, convey this property to your wife, and whatever is on it, and furnish the house in a suitable way, and advance the money for your journey, if you will pledge me your honor never to mention the cir- cumstance to her, nor to any other human being." "And how soon will you want payment?" "You don't understand me. I will receive no pay- ment." Graves was greatly agitated. "Holt!" he said, at last, "I cannot accept this. I have no right to do so either for Virginia or myself." "As you please," replied Holt, in his ordinary manner, and speaking as if the interview was at an end. "But how can I?" continued Graves. "I say as you please ; so let there be an end of it." "Will you lend me, mind, I say lend, two hundred and fifty dollars?" "No!" "Holt," said Graves," I would try and tell you how I feel about this generous offer, but you are such a strange fellow. You would swear at me if I did. Perhaps, for my wife's sake, I ought not peremptorily to decline it. May I have a day to consider?" "Yes." Graves left the counting-room with feelings difficult to depict. What should he do? His sense of what was manly caused him to regard the acceptance of Holt's offer with   378     TO-DAY: A ROMANCE.             . entire repugnance. If Holt would allow him to even prom- ise to pay him! But he was so different from any other human being. Recollecting his pledge to be home early, and having really nothing to call him-elsewhere, he pro- ceeded to his boarding house., He found Virginia in a state of great excitement. She was exceedingly frightened by the note her husband had left in the morning, and she had been especially annoyed by the presentation of several bills which she thought were paid. Besides, an uncouth, suspicious-looking man had called twice to see Graves, "Let us leave New York," she exclaimed. "Do not oppose the idea any longer. Let us quit the city while we can.  For my sake, Charley, do not hesitate. We  will join mother, and we may be happy yet i' "I have not the means to get away, Virginia. I have i been endeavoring everywhere to raise money. I can't   t do it." "Then sell all my dresses, except the one I wear. Oh, ; if we had decided a year ago!" "If we had, I should have done you no good, Virginia. H It is only lately I have learned to be a man."     F "Then you will go? Say that you will go!" :S "I will."                      X She threw her arms about him and wept like a child. The tears relieved her. "There," she exclaimed, smiling, : "I have had a good cry. Now, I will help you, just see if !! I don't."                       X. d I am going out again, Virginia. I may not be in at i dinner, but I will be home early in the evening."    THE BALL IN MOTION.        379 He started forth, taking his way directly back to Abbott & Holt's. "It is of no use arguing with him," he said; "I will accept the offer; it is the only way to save Virginia. I know it will kill her to stay here. This is what I will do. I will estimate the value of the whole property, and add to it the money I shall receive, and in due time I will repay him every dollar with interest." Having settled this to his satisfaction, he marched again into Holt's. "I accept your offer." "Very well. When do you wish to start?" L"To-morrow." "The papers may not be ready so soon." "Need that make any difference,?" "Perhaps not." "Then help us to quit this cursed place in the morning. I wish it could be to-night."  You do not forget the condition."' "I do not. It is a very hard one, but I will keep it sa- credly, on my honor." "Neither your wife nor any other human being shall ever know what I do." "Never." In a few minutes the matter was concluded, and Graves  received from the hands of Holt, the jeered-at "Cockeye " of his school-days, funds amply sufficient for his pur- poses. "Recollect the name of the man from whom you pur- chase the property. Here it is, with the address. He will   3880     TO-DAY; A ROMANCE.  write and send you the deeds, and forward furniture, and : all that sort of thing. You correspond with him, you un- derstand. Don't write to me. Good day." Graves was glad to make his escape. His sense of hu- miliation was intense; but he resolved to bear it for his wife's sake. She fortunately would never know it. He went to several places to attend to some trifling matters, and did not return as early as he expected. His wife reported that the same suspicious-looking personage had called again. "I do believe it is some of Ellsworth's work. He  - knows I am trying to get away, and he means to annoy me."     ' "Do you owe him," asked Virginia in a tone of horror. ? "Oh, some trifling loans ever so long ago. Nothing lately, nothing since we were married, on my honor." The avowal greatly relieved her. And when Graves   - told her he was quite ready to start in the morning, provid- e ed she was, her joy was past description. She flew up.  stairs to her chamber, and in less than an hour declared ?! that she, too, was ready. They left in the early train on their journey to their far- distant home; and when the bailiff (for it was he) called / that morning, fortified by an order of arrest, on the ground that the "Defendant was about to leave the State, and take his property with him," at the suit of Henry Ellsworth," for various sums of money loaned- at different f periods far back, he discovered that he was too late, and so  reported to the attorney, who duly informed his principal. X Ellsworth was not particularly narrow-minded or vin-   THE BALL IN MOTION.        381 dictive; but you see what such slights as he received from Virginia, and such abuse as Graves heaped on him, will do. It made him stoop to a very low revenge, happily frustra. ted by his old schoolmate's early departure. I,   382      TO -DAY: A ROMANCE.            D CHAPTER IIL  THE LAIR OF THE LEOPARDESS.        i ABOUT this time Castleton received a neat little note from Mrs. Delaine. It was as follows: "DEAR MR. CASTLETOW: I wish particularly to see you to-morrow. I have some matters of special importance to lay before you. Come as early as five o'clock, and arrange to stay to dinner, and spend the evening. Please do not disappoint me.       CELIA AUGUSTA DELAINE."    ] There was such an entire absence of coquetry in this epistle, that Castleton took it for what it purported to be: a simple matter of business, and gave an affirmative reply to the servant who brought it, and who was waiting for an . answer. He thought nothing more of the circumstance,  :-;: except to hold himself in readiness to keep the appoint- ment on the following day.  At five o'clock he was at the house. He was ushered  e into the little boudoir adjoining the library, and told that )- Mrs. Delaine would be down in a few minutes. He took up a book which was on the table. It was a  4 volume of miscellaneous plays. The book fell open where X a small, delicate paper-cutter had been left between the  leaves.   THE LAIR OF THE LEOPARDESS.       383 The play was "Fazio." Castleton's eyes fell on a pas- sage in which the passionate Aldabella describes her extrav- agant love. He continued to run over the pages till becom- ing interested in the play, which he had never read, he set- tled himself to its perusal. In the midst of his occupation he heard a deep drawn sigh near him, and looking up, he beheld Mrs. Delaine standing by his side. '"Who would have thought it, who could have believed it, that such a veritable lawyer as you have become should interest himself in any thing emotional!" "Emotions are what we have principally to deal with," said Castleton, rising and laying down the volume. "Just as medical men deal with diseases, or surgeons with a broken limb," replied Mrs. Delaine, extending her hand to him, while she insisted he should resume the fau- teuil, which was the lady's favorite seat. "You looked so unlike your every day self (such, at least, as I lately see you), and so like what I can imagine is your real self, seated off guard, quite in repose, perusing this romantic piece of heart limning that I could not bear to disturb you.  Do you know  how long I stood near enough to touch you, while you Were so entirely ab- sorbed?" "Indeed I do not." "I could not repress a long sigh when I thought how soon it would pass away, and you would come back to the wooden life of that hideous office." "You do not forget your old subject I perceive." "No, indeed; only you now give me no opportunity to   384     TO-DAY: A ROMANCE.  enlarge on it. Why is it you never come to see me as you used to?" "I m constantly occupied in affairs," replied Castleton.  "My profession is an absorbing one, and I must not neglect it." "I declare, I should think it was Mr. Pulsifer who was talking, not the bright, ingenuous youth I saw on a certain day, a few years ago, seated for the first time in his office." A pang struck at Castletons heart. Herecalledthe time vividly, and, in connection with it, Clara Dighy. A great change had indeed come over him. He sat still, making no reply. "How do you like my favorite play?" aske Mrs. De-  laine, changing the subject.  "What I read of it is very intense, but overwrought,  not to say unnatural." "Do you really think so?" "I do." "Don't you think it natural for Aldabella to exhibit the  passion she does?" It is certainly scandalous for her to do it."  "Do not speak to me of what is scandalous; for once, be free fromcant and rom this everlasting reserve. Tell me,  is it not true to woman's nature?" "There are such women, I suppose."  "You were always provoking. Do you not believe a woman who loves intensely is capable of committing a crime to serve the one she loves, or of doing any thing to , secure his lovewhih " "I do not belong to the school," said Castleton, "which   THE LAIR OF THE LEOPARDESS.       385 appreciates such women. They exist, I know; but they are the slaves of unbridled passions, desperate as enemies, and still more dangerous as friends." "You are not speaking from your heart, but from your brain," exclaimed Mrs. Delaine quickly. "Never mind. With my larger experience, I know you better than you know yourself: Do not attempt to smother your feelings under the mantle of a cold philosophy. The time will come when they will burst forth like lava from the volcano, and devastate every thing in their way." "I hope not." So do I; and, to prevent it, give your heart play now, even if its movements should appear erratic to so-called sen- sible people; sensible fools, rather!" Dinner was announced. It was not served in the large dining-hall, but in a cozy little breakfast room, and laid on a small circular table, just large enough for the occasion; so that not the least formality attended the repast. They were seated so near each other that conversation might easi- ly be confidential, should it by any chance take that turn. With every appearance of simplicity, the dinner was real- ly elaborate, such as could be served in few establishments, even in New York. Mrs. Delaine's French cook had no superior. The wines were not profuse, but very choice. Castleton enjoyed them in his moderate way, while Mrs. Delaine barely touched her lips to the different glasses, as became a lady. The conversation turned on Castleton's trip of the pre- vious year. He was led on by degrees, till he found himself giving a detailed account of it. Mrs. Delaine asked him a 17   8TO-DA   A ROi  A             reat many questi  about ifferent places with which she : about what he had seen. f most every thing in con- They went on talkng of almost every tng n  n nection with European trips; of sea voyages; the new  London hotels; the Channe   hltl th    ed Egypt-a thousand things id you see that?" aJust at that point such an incident happened to me." "Did you spend a night at the little hut on such a peak of the Pyrenees?" "I occupied that very room myself,  only think of it!" "You must 1ositively taste this champagne. Ladies  cannot drink wine; we have such weak heads; but you  will enjoy it." Without Castleton's being aware of it, the evening  was far advanced, while they were still seated at the without a word of sentiment, but gradually, as it would letie twith aE roer a  trips s , growing more familiar in the style of conversation.  W  as it not natural it should be so? Where topics were discussed mutually interesting; where both had expe- Ii rienced the same adventures, encountered similar mishaps, enjoyed the same scenes, it is not strange that they became " so engrossed that time passed unheeded. I   : mistake. Not they. Not for an instant did Mrs. Delaine lose sight of her   THE LAIR OF THE LEOPARDESS.       387 object. Slowly, cautiously, she advanced her lines. Now quickly retreating, if by chance she thought she had pushed a little too far, and putting herself in the attitude of listener, she would ask questions until any possible suspicion would be allayed. She was so appreciative of every incident of travel, so entirely in Castleton's own vein, that he thought she was never half so interesting. At length coffee was served. "Since you would be quite alone, I do not see how I can hospitably withdraw and leave you to your wine, as is still the absurd fashion," she said, rising, " so I must invite you to accompany me to my favorite spot, where, in a few minutes, a cup of tea must console you for what you give up here." Castleton rose also. I do not say he was excited by the wine, for he was not; but a genial, glowing elevation had insensibly taken possession of him, caused not only by it, but by the choice viands, the luxurious surround- ings, the agreeable conversation, and the presence of a beautiful and fascinating woman. As she preceded him from the room, he noticed her dress particularly for the first time. It was of the most exquisite, yet of the simplest character. It resem. bled a morning, rather than a dinner dress, yet was unlike either. It was of a delicate, gossamer-like fabric, and arranged to display to the fullest advantage the abso- lutely perfect form and contour of the wearer, while it served, by its airy nothingness, to impart youthfulness and freshness to every movement; in standing, walking, lean-   388     TO-DAY: A ROMANCE.               1C ing, or sitting, and all the while she so childlike, so innocent, so unconscious! I say Castleton noticed this now for the first time, for he was not a person ordinarily attracted by any par-     ticular feature in dress, and up to the time he rose from the table, this had not specially taken his attention. Now it would appear that his senses were more active, and his reflective powers to an extent subdued, for he noticed appreciatively points which had never before attracted his attention.              ' The two proceeded to the boudoir. "I shall resume possession of my little chailr, she said. "It was for the one occasion only I allowed you to have it, and that because you were reading ' Fazio.'"  She sat down as she spoke, pointing her companion to  E a seat near her on the sofa. Then they partook of a deli- cate cup of tea. As she reclined with childlike simplicity in her little fanteuil within that vast mansion, its absolute mistress, i wearing no ornament of any kind, exhibiting not the   :j least desire to attract or to lead in conversation, Castle- ton felt he had never seen a woman so faultlessly beau-  i tifull, His suspicions must have been quite laid at rest, allow- ing his thoughts and feelings to flow in their natural channel unrestrained. Once or twice, to be sure, the "4 mat- ters of special importance " which he had been summoned e  there to examine did occur to him, but for once he felt it pi would be out of place to assume a professional air. Shle doubtless perceived what was passing in his mind, !   THE LAIR OF THE LEOPARDESS.       889 for she exclaimed: "I know you expect me to take up my affairs; but this time let me be spared; let me out of all my life spend one single natural evening. Castleton smiled. "One would'think you were a slave, and had just obtained permission for a holiday." "Just that, just that. You could not describe my 'condition better. I am a slave; more than that, I am watched, criticised, censured, maligned, and without the sympathy (beyond what money buys) of a solitary soul. You know it perfectly well," she continued.  "This is not what I wish to speak of. I am determined not to speak of it. Only let me rest this evening in peace." She was becoming a little agitated, and Castleton made some attempt to comfort her. "My friend," she said-" don't repel me, if I call you so-how little, notwithstanding all you have observed in the dreadful trade you have destined yourself to follow, can you understand what I endure. You are calm, cold, impassive, just. Your blood does not stir out of its cus- tomary channel, your pulses beat always evenly.  Your emotions are never violent. How then can you under- stand what I suffer, who have constantly to repress and subdue the outhursts of a  passionate nature, to curb all expression of my feelings, which in me is but natural enthusiasm; and conceal the fires which are now con- suming me?" While she was speaking, she had insensibly risen, and seated herself by Castleton. He  did not appear to ob- serve the movement. "I know what you are going to say," she continued, J '" WJLV jV115 VV CY3    390     TO-DAY: A RO    IANCE . speaking rapidly and in much excitement. I know this is not at all to your taste; yet you have consented that this shall be my evening. You have too large and noble a nature to cultivate a one-sided view of the human heart. As you ares or at least as you will soon force yourself to be, you will settle into just a moiety of the enlarged and glorious being which you might become, did you permit yourself to share in the experiences of such hearts as you affect to despise." She placed her hand on his arm as she spoke, as if to enforce the appeal she had made. The gesture was so insidious that it did not startle her companion. His brain was for the moment unsettled. He did not speak. "You do not answer!"  Her hand glided softly down, and rested within his. Castleton did not stir. His face was beginning to look impassive. "Is it possible that you are literally without feeling? I do not believe it-I know to the contrary. I have seen I you exhibit it." She was speaking very rapidly. - "I will not refrain," she continued, as if replying to some expression of her companion, while she grasped his I hand; "I have passed the barrier of feminine reserve,   and I will run my course, though I am forever after to despair. You do know, you must have known-despise and mock me for the confession-how I have loved you.  i When I first saw you, passing from that lawyer's room-- a mere youth, I worshipped you then. I did, I did. I   I stole back just to see you again for an instant. I have   THE LAIR OF THE LEOPARDESS.       391 belonged to you ever since. When I thought Clara Dighy loved you (I knew you loved her) despair and rage filled my soul; when I discovered the truth, I was in raptures; I hoped still to win you. You ran away from me to Europe. When you returned, you were fiigid as ice. This plunged me in the deepest agony--in torment indescribable. ' What am I to do? What will become of me? ' I asked. I could resist no longer. I resolved to have an interview. It has come. You can kill me. I wish you would. Can you have the least conception of love like mine ; without change, without diminution, always, always a perpetual fountain, gushing, overflowing? Tell me, have you any idea of it? For years I have had no ambition, no hope, no wish, except what was connected with you. Every thing--my life, my soul's existence, are centered in you. Beware how you slight me. With you I can be any thing, every thing. You shall mould me absolutely to your will. If you reject me, I will become a devil; mark what I say--a devil!" While this scene was passing, Castleton sat aghast, pale, speechless. He had been for the moment stunned by the rapidity and force of the torrent; but by degrees he recovered. "This is madness," he said, at length, as he attempted to rise. "I know it is, but don't you dare mock at it," ex- claimed the excited woman, compelling him to keep his seat. ".Do you think to leave me in this way? Have you nothing to say to me? Speak!"   392     TO-DA Y: A RO MAN CE. Castleton did not open his month. He felt he could say nothing. There was a point where he was in possible danger, namely, when he rose from the dinner, and prepared to follow his Circe into her interesting little sitting-room. But when she began her passionate demonstrations, a revulsion came gradually over him, whieh left him hard and impassive as marble. It was the reaction. "Speak! Say that you love me." Not a word. "Ingrate, monster! :" she shrieked, seizing Castleton's throat with a sudden fiery, and clutching it so violently, that before he could recover himself his face was purple. With an instinctive effort, he dashed the frantic woman from him with such force that she was hurled quite across the little apartment against the wall. Cas- tleton started to his feet. "Stay, stay one instant," exclaimed the other. "I    will do no more violence. I swear to you by the ashes of my father, I will never trouble you more."' She approached very near him as she said this, and was silent a moment.                    "It is over-past," at length she exclaimed with bit- ' terness. "The rayless life for me; the hopeful, buoyant,  onward life for you ; to me the sirocco forever scorching my vitals; for you heaven's healthful breezes. Why such a terrible contrast in the destiny of two of God's creatures? Are you really so much better than I?-I,   : whom you despise? Oh, no; it is because you are framed in the mould of consistency, by which you are reserved for I.   THE LAIR OF THE LEOPARDESS.        393 whatever is very fit and truly proper; to me are none of these guards, to me none of these safe virtues. I am the fallen spirit, you, the angel of light. Go. This is all I have to say. We will meet just as if this interlude had not been played. We shall neither forget it, probably; but we will act as if we did." Without a word of reply, Castleton left the room. He gained the main hall, opened the door, and descended to the street. He walked several blocks, without regard to the course he was taking. Presently he saw some market wagons rumbling along. Approaching a gaslight, he looked at his watch. It was after three o'clock in the morning I Following the course of the wagons, he permitted himself to stroll on toward one of the large markets. The preparations for supplying the great city had already begun. He passed among the different stalls, thinking only of the scene he had been through. He tried to recall the circumstances attending it, but his recollection was confused. "At any rate, I have not to learn that lesson again," he said to himself, as he started to walk home- ward. When he rang at his own house about six in the morn- ing, the servant supposed it was some one for the doctor, and roused him accordingly, before he opened the door. "Who is ill?" asked Dr. Castleton, as his son passed up to his room. !"A few days after, Mrs. Delaine and Castleton met in the Fifth Avenue. She bowed to him graciously. *  .1*   394     TO-DAY: A R OMAN CE.  An ordinary observer could not have detected the    ; slightest difference from her usual salutation. Castleton could. It satisfied him that, in her own words, she would never trouble him more. ' i JrT "      "Sii   CHARLEY GRAVES TO WILLIAM: HOLT. 395 CHAPTER   IV. CHARLEY GRAVES TO WILLIAM HOLT. "--, Iowa, June 11, 186-. "DEAR SI : You told me not to write you, but I did not promise I wouldn't, and I shall never be contented till I do. I will not say I am grateful to you, for fear I shall set you swearing at me. But I will tell you this: I am the happiest man alive. I have just come in from go- ing round our wheat field. Did you ever see a wheat field? I don't mean a little patch of five or ten acres, but such fields as we have out here. (You never told me there had been fifty acres of winter wheat got in. This of itself will support a family handsomely a year.) Vir- ginia says it is the handsomest sight she ever beheld, and that there is nothing in Broadway or the Fifth Avenue to compare with it, and I think she is right. "Every thing is as fresh here as though it was made yesterday. No live thing seems to be afraid of you. When I walk out into the road a scorp of wild pigeons will fly up, and light over my head, and fly back again after I pass. The prairie is full of antelope, deer, rabbit, and grouse; and as for wild turkeys, they wake me up every morning, gobbling all around us. We keep three cows, and make our own butter, of course; we have a   396     TO-DAY: A ROMANCE. poultry yard well stocked with fowls of all sorts, and we  have all the 'fixins'  that make life comfortable. The'  climate is very fine. It does one good to breathe the air; and now that I am here, I wonder why poor devils like   i myself (or as I zoas, for I count myself out now). are will- ing to live along from year to year in the dusty filth of a . city. "One special reason why I wished to write you is    this: I know you thought Iwouldn't stick to it out here;  1: that I would get sick of it, and want to come back to   l New York, and would neglect things generally. I don't say, but it might have been so if I had left a year sooner, when every thing looked bright at home. It took, I think, just such a schooling as I had that twelvemonth to open my eyes. And now, though I say it, there is not a man  ! in this country who attends more carefully to his business than your humble servant. I don't pretend I have be- come a good farmer all in a hurry, but I know I am fast  i learning, and 'Where there's a will there's a way.' I   , think a good deal of old times, and what a fool I used to make of myself, but I don't let that worry me now. If I   have any luck, I shall plow up fifty acres more this fall.  There is not a better quarter section in this part of the State, and by another year we shall have a railroad sta-  tion within ten miles of us. 3Iy wife's mother is a great comfort to us, being a very good housekeeper and under-   standing Western ways first-rate. It continues to be a great mystery to both of them, notwithstanding emy   %i explanations, how I secured this place for Virginia; ani  I am afraid I have had to tell more stories to enable me    CHARLEY GRAVES TO WILLIAM HOLT. 397 to keep myself right with you in this matter than I can ever answer for. But I can stand it all for Virginia's sake. She says she is as happy as she can be, and I really think she is. She declares nothing would induce her to go back to New York. "Yesterday we rode out together in the buggy on the prairie. The handsomest fawn I ever saw, nearly full grown, started up at a spring where he was lying, and bounded off a few yards, and then stood perfectly still, looking at us. Virginia would not let me-' shoot; she said it would spoil her ride if I killed it, and I was glad afterward I did not. I will now bring this rambling letter to a close, and hope you won't fly in a passion with me for writing. "Your obedient servant, "CHARLES GRAVES. "WILLIAQM HOLT, ESQ., X"New York.", When Holt received this epistle, he read it over very carefully twice, dwelling only on the paragraphs where Virginia's name was mentioned. Then he tore it in fine pieces, and threw it in the waste basket.   398     TO-DAY: A ROMANCE.  J, CHAPTER   V. THE LOVERS. CLARA and Du Barry were seated together in the little library of Mr. Ferris. They were to be married in a few weeks. The day was not fixed, but it was well un-  derstood it would not be distant. Then they were to   i leave on a foreign tour which should last an indefinite e period. Clara's fortune was ample for this. As for Du Barry's, it had become a-mere pittance under the new era of inflated prices and general extravagance. The absolute devotion which Clara expected from her lover, and which she was ready to return by an entire  consecration of herself to him, had begun seriously to annoy him. But the time would soon be up, the prize secured, and then matters would settle down on a more rational basis. They were seated together. Du Barry had just come in. He found Clara reading a volume of Wilhelm Meis-   i ter-it was a German copy. Looking up at him as he took his seat, she exclaimed:             ! "Do you recollect when you marked these passages?" ! "Why, how did you come by this book?"       E "You left it on the table yesterday."   THE LOVERS.          399 "Oh, I recollect. I took it with me to the printing. office, where I was correcting proof. I was wondering how it reached you. I have a handsome library edition, which I will bring you. This has been thumbed so much that it is unfit for a lady's hands." "I like it. all the better," said Clara. "It makes a book look more interesting. This is such a neat, compact little thing. I am going to keep it. You must bring me the other volumes." "Certainly, if you fancy them; though I have an im- pression the set is imperfect." "I hope not. You did not answer my question; when did you make these marks? Stop, let me read to you." They were sitting close together, and while Clara's hand rested in Du Barry's, she read in English the follow- ing: "He had told Aurelia of his intercourse with Mariana, and could therefore now refer to it. She looked him in- tently  in the face and asked: 'Can you say that you never yet betrayed a woman; that you never tried, with thoughtless gallantry, with false asseverations, with cajol. ing oaths, to wheedle favor from her?' 6" I can,' said Wilhelm; ' and what a warning, my beautiful, my noble friend, is this melancholy state in which I  see you! Accept of me a vow which is suited to-my heart; which under the emotion you have caused me has settled into words and shape, and which will be hallowed by the hour in which I  utter it. Each transi- tory inclination  I will study to withstand; and even the   400     TO-DAY: A ROMANCE. most earnest I will keep within my bosom; no woman shall receive an acknowledgment of love from my lips to whom I cannot consecrate my life!' "She looked at him with a wild indifference, and drew some steps backward as he offered her his hand. "Tis of no moment,' cried she, 'so many women's tears more or fewer; the ocean will not swell by reason of them. And yet,' continued she, ' among thousands, one woman saved; that still is something; among thousands, one honest man discovered; this is not to be refused. Do you know, then, what you promise?"?  When did you mark it?" "Years ago. I purchased the work when I first came to Schweinfurth, a few weeks after I landed. I have told you how I used to live in that little quaint old place." "Yes, indeed. I shall insist on keeping this all the more now. I shall look for all the marked passages.     How delicately you drew those lines; very different from your present bold, vigorous dash."  She began to turn the leaves over.           I "I fear I must interrupt you. I have to take the book once more to the printing-office; then you shall have it with the remaining volumes." "Just a moment. Let me repeat this to you. Do  you see, you have double marked it. I can just perceive  the second line; it is very faint." She read: "1No woman shall receive an acknowledgment of love from my lips to whom I cannot consecrate my life."   THE LOVERS.         401 "Of whom were you thinking, Alfred, when you drew your pencil so softly twice opposite those words?" "Of a certain young lady, whose indignation I once roused by asking her to wait for my return before she engaged herself," replied Du Barry, tenderly. "Ah, that is the charm," returned Clara. "To know you never had a thought for any one but me, that when a blooy you consecrated your life to me; that in all those long years of absence you cherished only this idea, that ,your first, your only vows, were breathed to me. It is too great happiness." Du Barry made a suitable reply. Clara still held the little volume in her hand, while she carelessly turned the leaves.  It would seem that her lover was not anxious to pro- long the interview, for he made a gesture to take the book which she was again beginning to examine. "Oh, here is something else," she exclaimed. She ran her eye eagerly over the page. "Did you ever lend this?" she asked, abruptly. "Never. Why do you inquire?" "I don't know.   It has been so much read. This lining is too delicate for even a youth." She half held her breath as she looked at her com- panion for his reply.  Du Barry smiled. "I  could imagine that some young girl did this!" "Nonsense." He  took the book, and read the para- graph to himself. "I confess I see nothing here worthl marking; it is very commonplace."   402     TO-DAY: A ROMANCE. L How can you say so? It is exactly as I feel now, Alfred, all the time." She read aloud: "Except Narcisse, the world was altogether dead to me; excepting him, there was nothing in it that had any charm. Even my love for dress was but the wish to please him; if I knew that he was not to see me, I could spend no care upon it. I liked to dance; but if he was not beside me, it seemed as if I could not bear the motion. At a brilliant festival, if he were not invited, I could neither take the trouble of providing new things, nor of putting on the old, according to the mode."       I "How can you call that commonplace?"  "Excuse me.  I did not mean 'commonplace.'  I should have said common.' It is the genuine sentiment of one who loves; but an ordinary sentiment. I confess ! I was thinking more of your odd surmise about the marks I than of what I was reading."               a Clara laughed. Du Barry's natural tone relieved her. "I did not mean to frighten you; I do not know what it is of late. I conjure up the strangest imaginings. Yet who could possibly have less reason? It is the excess of happiness. It makes me mournful. I want you near me every moment; I become sad as soon as you leave me." "This will soon end," whispered Du Barry; "and    - then-  "                        I They were interrupted by the entrance of Miss Ferris, who came in humming a favorite air. She did not appear at all surprised to find the two together, but nodded   T TRE LOVERS. 403 carelessly to her cousin who seized the occasion to excuse took leave, saying he would be in again during the even- ing. Clara followed him into the hall. "You will think no more of my folly in fancying any one could have had that book but you," she said. "Certainly not. I quite understand how you feel." "You do, do you not?" exclaimed Clara, eagerly. "You know I do. And whenever any little thing disturbs you, promise me you will at once spea out as you did just no. Then   we can nev er  ot misunderstand one another." :'ver misunderstand "Indeed I will. I  cannot express how happy your words make me."  She came back to the library radiant, quite ready to enter into the Iively vein Miss Ferris was indulging in. When Du B   arry reached the street he drew a long breath. " tell out of that," he said to: himself. "Con- found my carelessness. A few weeks, and all danger wh be over.'f, He took his course to the printing-office. W hat awaited him there, deserves to be recorded in a fresh chapter.   404     TO-DAY: A ROMANCE. CHAPTER VI. CASnLTON TO BEFOBM THE WORLD! To return to Castleton. For days after the extraordinary denouement with Augusta Delaine, he had the sensations of one physically and mentally benumbed, so terrible was the strain on his  nerves and on his moral sense. As the clear light of reason and conscience spread  healthfully over him, he emerged from the torpid state in which he had temporarily been plunged, into an atmo- sphere purer, as it appeared to him, than he had ever before breathed. With this came a quiet, calm control over his emotions, If such as he could never exercise before. As he looked around him, and then into the future, he seemed to him- self to be isolated; isolated by his own deliberate act. That of resting his hopes on an object which did not respond to him, and of rejecting the alluring offer made to his senses. "What am I to become?" he exclaimed. "Dare I oppose my personal aspirations to the cry of the many  i which everywhere ascends for relief, or is smothered in  the low mutterings of despair? Can I escape the sense of   CASTLETON   TO REFORB  THE WORtD! 405 HUF^N BESPONSIBILrTy which oppresses me? Am I to do any thing to lighten the load which weighs down the great army of the Unfortunate? Am I ready now to enter the lists? Yes, if I can rise superior to any circum. stance; if I can say necessity no longer controls me. With a sense of undaunted rightfulness, what may I not achieve? Always for the true, I have no alprehension no palpitations, no 'bondage through fear.' "I wh begin again. God has vouchsafed me a vision. Given rest of SOpL, with activity of mind and health of body, and I h  ave the powers of a god. Why not? Those tantalizing and illimitable desires no longer in my path? and there is an end of AbwNe ation.  Forward! The day is past wherein to seek our orn. advantage Nov, a man no longer belongs to himself. Bt howto equalize human happiness! To solve riddles more mys- terious than the Sphinx's. Joy + sorrow x sorrov +joy. Song   x we ail of w retchedness. 1Mirth x sadness. Dance x tread of woe. Criim e xgood deeds. Guilt xinnocence.                    ' Depravity x virtue. Power x wealkness. We  alth x destitution. One common humanity. "Where i s th e m oral m athematician who shall work   406     TO-mAY: A ROMANCE. w the equation? Will any so-called 'great philanthropist' attempt it? Let every individual try, andt the work is done. I will set about it for one.'" Such were the resolves of our hero, which, perhaps, would never have been so conscientiously determined on, had he experienced no heart troubles. He did not know, though, what he, marked out for himself. "Tantalizing and illimitable desires no longer in his path," indeed! For how long the exemption? As if he- could get free from them!  Nevertheless, keep on your course; carry out your    "i resolutions; but do not think to fight this battle without 8J carrying about you the full weight of human dross, and   V being exposed to the poisoned arrows which the enemy   ! within hurls into your very citadel!  -ti    za A 1 T I O X. 40TI CHAPTER   VII. AN UITNLOOKED-PO APPARITION I WE left Du Barry on his way to the printing-office, where he was going to correct the proofs of a fresh article for the "Copernican Monthly." The printing establishment was a large one, and the proprietors had lately introduced the experiment of em- ploying gills to set type in a small part of it. The article in question was of the romantic order. It volved a very sentimental love-affair, and the scene was aid among the Alps-the Franconian Alps. Du Barry was surprised to find his proofs so correct. [he German words, of which there were a la rge numbel;     i ,ere set up without an error. H  rewas still m ore aston. bed to  obser ve the name of one of the places omitted, ad anotherput in its stead. The first was im aginary,  Le other the real name.           a- nr V exed that any one should presume to take such a )erty with his 31S., he called the foreman, and asked,n VVh o set up that page; is it an American ? " "rNo; it is a German girl, whom we first emplo yed a v days ago.  She is hig]bly-educated and  v ery intelli- at   , and can set ulp a form as rapidly as any one in th e ,ce,  "                   the   408     TO-DAY: A tT There is not the " Very odd," returned Du arr. There is not the slightest error in my proofs. But she has gone rather too slightest etor in my Vrooos.   Can I See her.     : far in undertaking to change a word. Can I see her?" Certainly, if you ill step this way."  At one of the "cases" stood a young girl of no orai- nary appearance. She wore a osettig  res of aith material, and her small delicate finers were stained with printers' ink. Hler liht hair, of which she had a profu- sion, was drawn tight over her forehead, and wound in a coil at the back of her head. Her face was one of great beauty, something thinner than seemed n atural, while heron fine, large, blue eyes wore an expression of sad resignation. She paid no attention to the two whoswere approach ing, till the foreman stopped. "This,' he said, "is the author of the article you have been at work on; he wishes to speak to you about the prlofs." Could Du Barry believe he evidence of his sensel ' It was Charlotte Meyer who stood before him! The foreman had turned iimmeditely away. The case stood in the corner of the  Ever bod aound the was busy. No one too   any notice of Du Barry'S approach.                here , Charlotte I Good God! How came you here?" There was no reply. She stood looking fixedly at him, but she did not speak.        DBarry "Why did you leave uemberg?  asked u Barry, after a painful silence. "What was there in Nuremberg that I should stay?" she demanded in a tone so earnest and sad that her jues' tioner hesitated before he attempted to reply.   AN UNLOOKED-FOR APPARITION.      409 "But why go so far from  home? why come to America?" "Ilome!" echoed the girl, " home! Can you tell me where is my home? I came to this country to escape from scenes and recollections that haunted me there; not as you perhaps fear, to give you any annoyance." Du Barry's countenance expressed the sense of relief which this last observation caused, but he did not know what to say. "I know all, Alfred," she continued, calmly. "And you will not betray me?" he could not help asking with eagerness. "Betray you!"-she spoke for the first time with bitterness. "Is that a word to employ toward me? Betray!" Forgive me, Charlotte. I did not think what I was saying. I have much I would explain to you, had I the opportunity. How long have you been here?" "Many molths.2" "And why did you come?  "I had not heard from you for a year." She spoke calmly, without agitation. Another embarrassing pause ensued, embarrassing to Du Barry, for Charlotte stood quite collected, regarding him mournfully, as if she pitied him. "Very strange," he said, at last.; ' Why did you not let me know you were here?" "I only desired to learn the worst. I had no wish to see you." 18   TO-DAY  I   rO1W CE h to see e!" exclimea Barry, in a tone " No wish to see me romato ically tender and reproacful en     - one," replied the other     Whn I dis- covered ho matters were, I    ger distacted  ra   face coiltraicted the asstion, t she ore herself bravey           a  "We must  come to you      ?"Thi             .  ,' Com tIe  she  eexclaimed, With digity. ' Tis is too much." She tarnme to Yes ume    er  isDu ary sa his mis tae, mae hste to rectify  D   a'angry Charlotte, beca      e you ao enot  it. "You  are  angry, Cbarlotte7 punaerstand- I ould me exlnations by whih  ? oU ld think lesIn a or        I will sa y. here, if I can have no         itter e , ta olem before I left America, I had already Ct engcagement---,in        e , hich 0ou broke on the first oppotity, uptel    a Ch arl otte. "The less you expl, the b tter." "As you will. But if you knew ever y circumstNanc, as I am ready to detail to you if you will permit, )O0 old not feel so bitterly towa e." , It cal be of no consequence to youhoIf  is tim  e this interview should close." She turned ag, ain to the case. , Charlotte, one word, we have each other's lettders ]o you not thinki they should be excha ne " "4 Yes-   AN UN'LOOK:ED-VOR 'APPARITIONJ.      4" "I will bring yours here to-morrow, if you will have mine ready.' "Be it so." Du Barry departed with an intense sense of relief. The conversation had been carried on in German (though Charlotte, from long intercourse with her lover, was equally familiar with English); no one could suspect its purport; Charlotte had said distinctly that he need ap- prehend nothing from her, and their letters were to be exchanged. "A good morning's work,'" he said to himself, as lie stepped into the street. "'From the nettle danger I pluck the flower safety;' the only hazard I feared is dis- posed of. I must overhaul those volumes of Meister, and obliterate all tell-tales; in fact, I must submit my effects to a scarification." He .walked cheerfully onward till he eme ged into Nas- sau street, where he encountered Castleton. r          #  k   TO-DAY: A ROMANCE. CHAPTER VIII. CASTLETON-DU BARRY-CLARA. THEsE two young men now seldom met. There was )thinu whatever to bring them together. On this occasion Du Barry felt particularly in fine irits. He shook his old friend warmly by the hand, ex- [aiming(, You are just the one I wish to see. I have ime business matters which must be attended to before- ,efore the-event. You understand ?" Castleton felt as lawyers usually feel when professional opics are broached outside of the office, and especially on  ,he street; but he controlled himself, and responded eleasantly: "What can I do for you ? " " Settlements, that is the word, I believe," returned Du Barry. "Mr. Ferris tells me these things should be fixed, or rather that Clara's trustee insists on it; though I am told the laws of the State sufficiently protect the property of married women without any settlement." He did not say he had, with much solicitude, consulted a lawyer on the subject. "Not if you go to reside elsewhere. I shall turn yot over to Mr. Pulsifer; it is his department." "Nonsense, Tom, as if you could not get these things   CASTLETON-DU BARRY--CLARA.   up without sending me to him. You know we don't like each other, and Clara perfectly abominates him." "She does ! I thought they were good friends." " You are mistaken. She can't bear the sight of him." "Why don't you consult some one else ?  "The trustee insists that the papers be prepared at your office. There's a fix!" Du Barry spoke in his old free and easy way, when he said "there's a fix," which made Castleton laugh, and car- ried him back, for a moment, to old times. "There is no help for you," he said. "It is not my department. You need not meet Mr. Pulsifer.   MIiss Digby's trustee is the one to call on him." "True. I did not think of that. Are you not tired, Tom," he continued, "of this tread-mill life of yours ?" "Tread-mill! Our profession is especially varied; any thing but monotonons.' "Oh! I don't mean that exactly. After-getting even a peep at Europe, were you not disgusted to return ?" " Quite the contrary, I assure you." "I don't know how you can say so. We mean to make our escape as soon as possible. Once across the wa- ter, we shall not come back very soon, if I can prevent it. There is every thing here to disgust one. Look at your society. For the life of me, I don't see how you, who are born a gentleman, can tolerate it." "You find it better abroad ?" " Better ? yes, indeed. There you have the refinement and breeding of high birth." "I have seen only outside views," said Castleton;  "4     TO-DAY: A ROMANCE. "but what I did see, led me to give the palm in politeness to Americans. I am told, too, by those who have lived long in Europe that in no city in the world do you meet with so much general refinement and so much real cour- tesy as in New York." "Stuff, all stuff, I assare you-- "As to the accident of birth," continued Castleton, without noticing the interruption, "you know I don't care that for it" (he snapped his fingers as he spoke). The more people I find, of what you call low birth, who rise to a first-class position, the better I like it." "You are led away by a sicldy sentimentality, retort- ed Du Barry. ' When we were oys, we thought it was great to put on these airs, and discourse about equality,  and all that sort of thing; but we are old enough now to  know better. If you will but open your eyes, you will con- i fess I am right. What do you say to the evidences of the grossest corruption all around? You are already fast get-  ting into a state of anarchy. You will continue to grow  worse and worse till you are driven for protection to the other extreme-despotism. Some of your wisest men agree with me."  "They are fools!" exclaimed Castleton. He checked  himself, and continued in a different tone. "But grant you are right, what is your proposition? You propose to run away, instead of manfully trying to help correct the evils you perceive so plainly. Don't you think you owe something to your country?" "Stuff, again. Owe something? No! 'Tis an ab-  straction, a pure chimera. The idea that it's my duty to   CASTLETON--DU BA    XY-ULJA A.    41A wear out my life in attempting to reform knaves, cut- throats, and hypocrites, because I happen to be born in the same land which produces them! That's a good joke. I gave up such nonsense long ago, and hoped you had by this time. I tell you what it is, Tom, I am a cosmopolite. 'Ubi bene ibipatria.' * Good morning." "Will he make Clara happy?" queried Castleton, as Du Barry turned away. He appeared to suddenly resolve on something. He stepped to his office, and left word there that he should not return again that day. Coming out, he made his way " up-town." I have already remarked, that, partly from pride, partly in consequence of the judicious conduct of Clara toward him, Castleton was prevented from declaring himself when there was not a shadow of a chance for him. Now that the marriage between Clara and Du Barry was settled on beyond question, Castleton took a resolu- tion. "I am not satisfied to part from her without a word," he said to himself. I will avow what I feel, since there is no longer occasion for the least misunderstanding." In due time, he reached the residence of Mr. Ferris, and inquired if Miss Dighy was in. He was told she was. Sending up his name, he took his seat in the little libra- ry, where Clara was accustomed to receive her intimate friends. * Where I am well off, there is my country.   "6     TO-DAY: A ROMANCE. What reminiscences it awoke in Castleton's breastl Hlow many happy hours he had spent with her in that room! How many-- He was interupted in his day-dream by the entrance of Clara herself. She had been in a joyous mood all day. The morning's interview with her lover was such a satis- factory one, and he was to be with her again in the even- ing. She was entertaining the kindest feelings toward all the world when Castleton was announced. She hastened to welcome him -warmly. "An unex- pected pleasure," she said. "You have neglected me shamefully of late." "We have both been a good deal occupied, I imagine," was his reply; " and now I only come to say a sort of good-by to you." "Are you going away?" '"No, but you are," said Castleton, smiling, while the young lady looked grave. "Clara " (he had not called her Clara for a long time before), "Clara," said Castleton, in a peculiar, low, impres- sive tone, " you know perfectly well how I have always felt toward you. You now belong to my old friend-my rival. If I have a wish of the heart, it is that you and he shall be happy together. You may think it strange I de- sire distinctly to avow that I have always loved you. I should not be satisfied with myself unless I did so. That is a reality of the past. There is no longer propriety in its continuance. A word more. Little as we can know of the future, I am certain that my friendship for you will never be diminished. This is now of no consequence to   CASTLETON---  DU BRRY---CLARA.     417 you, I trust it may never be.. But if, in the years to come, a time should be, when, for some-cause we may not now count on, it could relieve you to know this friendship is always a living, tangible reality,-what I ask of you is, employ it as one honest soul may demand of another--will you do so?" She looked at him as he spoke with an expression which it might not have pleased Du Barry to witness. - Then her eyes fell. Not a word was said, but Castleton was satisfied. He had received his answer, and rising, he left the room. Clara sat quite still for several minutes. "Was any one ever so supremely blest?" she thought. "To be loved as I am loved, and to have such a noble, generous friend!"' I have never been able satisfactorily to ascertain wheth- er or not she gave Du Barry an account of what passed at this interview. In the happy moments of his visit that evening, she may have omitted to do so. As Du Barry was leaving her, the same evening, he said, "I shall not see you again till to-morrow afternoon; I  have something to attend to which will take me out quite early in the morning." He was anxious to get the interview with Charlotte off his hands before again trusting himself in Clara's pres- ence. "Oh, you must come in, if only for a moment. Do you think I shall let you go directly past without a little vis. it?" 18'   "8     TO-DAY: A R0-MACE. She continued her endearing persuasions, which were very flattering to his self-love, till at last he yielded. It will be a half hour of happiness to me, even if I do disappoint others," he said gallantly. There were more tender words, and he departed.   THE LOST PACKAGE.        419 CHAPTER IX. THE LOST PACKAGE. THE air blew cool and fresh from the northwest (it was now the latter part of October), giving elasticity to Du Barry's step and buoyancy to his spirits, as he pur- sued his way home with a light heart. All his plans were working to his entire satisfaction. Another interview with Charlotte, and that disagreeable. affair would be off his hands. His last article for "The Copernican " was in type. He never intended to concoct another. In three weeks he would be married. He had but a short walk to take before reaching his bachelor quarters. Mounting to his room, he lighted his meerschaum, and proceeded to business. He took from his escritoire a small package of letters which were contained in an envelope. Then he looked carefully through the desk, taking out many small pieces of paper (I do not know their contents) several little keepsakes of more or less value, various odds and ends of things of apparently little importance, and last of all a miniature. This he opened and looked at. It must have recalled a great many tender associations, but it does not appear that he exhibited any particular emotion.   He closed the case, which also contained a plain gold ring, and thrust it into the envelope which held the let. ters. He gathered together all the remaining articles, little papers, keepsakes, a very small neat glove, a lock  of golden hair, a bit of faded ribbon, and threw them on the fire which was burning brightly in the grate. He watched till they were consumed. B Next he laid hold of the volumes of Wilhelm Meister, and examined them carefully. Occasionally a flower, which had been pressed between the leaves, would fall out, and once a small bit of silk from a dress of Char- lotte's which Du Barry had liked particularly. There were marks in abundance through the books, and many annotations as well as references to the time or occasion when such and such a page had been read. "What an escape!' he muttered between his teeth. "I shall not undertake to prepare these for other eyes." He took the books and threw them in the fire. In a diligent business way he went through his entire effects, destroying whatever in his judgment involved any hazard to retain. It was a very searching, thorough piece of work, and it was not till one o'clock in the morn- ing that Du Barry, a good deal fatigued with his peculiar occupation, retired to rest with the satisfaction of a man who has performed his task well. He slept soundly. The next morning was very fine. A magnificent au- tumnal day; Du Barry felt its animating influence as he left the house and proceeded to call on Clara, as he had promised the evening before.   -A- .- .... . m   421 The servant took his light overcoat as he came in, while he stepped unannounced to the little library, where Clara already awaited him.  She received him joyfully, as usual. After a few minutes, she perceived her lover did not appear altogether in his natural mood. "Are you well?" she asked.  "Perfectly well; who could be otherwise in such  magnificent weather?" I thought you did not look quite like yourself," said Clara anxiously.                       i, "The fact is," replied Du Barry, "as I mentioned to rou last evening, I have an appointment at this hour,     ' vhich really I ought to keep, and I dare say the idea lakes me appear a little absent. You will forgive me?" "rou shall keep it," cried Clara. "It is enough that have seen you. I will be content till you come back to  His reply, as he rose to leave, was very happy and )propriate. She accompanied him as usual into the hall. ley stood together a moment on the stoop, admiring the ories of the new day. As she turned to come in, after his departure, and  st as she closed the door, her eyes fell on some papers ich lay scattered almost at her feet.  As she stooped to take them up, she saw Du Barry's  ne in his own handwriting on the envelope which had itained them. Her first impulse was to call after him, that he might :  aim what he had accidentally dropped. This impulse  checked by a counter-culTent surging back on her     i -   D--- ;- -   422      TO-DAY: A ROMANCE. heart at the sight of the neat delicate handwriting, and of a miniature case which lay near. A terrible prescience seized her. She clutched the letters and the miniature, and hastened back to the library; she could not wait to go to her chamber. She sat down, and without a thought whether or not what she was doing were right or honorable, she eagerly, fiercely ran her eyes through the notes. They were written in a delicate German "current hand," with which Clara was perfectly familiar. She did not attempt to read them, but darted from page to page, seizing by instinct on certain points, then hurrying rapidly on to other portions. This is what she first read, her eyes being drawn to the page as if by a magnet.* I send you a journal of my days. I commence with that of your departure. After you left me, I gave a free course to my tears. While we were at breakfast, I forced myself to appear in spirits, lest I should make you sad. It was in vain I endeavored to relieve my breast. I found it impossible to take up any thing; my head was too con-  fused and my heart too full. I thought breathing the  fresh air might a little restore me, and went out for a  walk-I cared not in which direction. I soon returned, and after sitting, thinking, thinking for hours, night came, * The author was tempted to leave these extracts in the language in  which they were written; it may, however, be more satisfactory to the  general reader to peruse a translation, in which it is quite impossible to render the touching pathos of the original.   THE LOST PACKAGE         423 and I r3tired. I leave it to you to divine if I slept The next clay Gertrude called to see me, and afterward I cor. pelled myself to go out with her, but I was soon home again, where I could think of you without interrption. I do nothing else, nothing, nothin; and thus three days have passed, clays which seem to me years. If tree day seem so long, how do three months appear? O Alfred, I have not the courage to wait. If you knew all poor heart suffers. Why did you leave your Charlotte? appy rthose who have never loved! But when I consider that God or destiny intended a something in all this, hen I reflect that it is to thee that I have brouht all my friendship, to thee that I render caress for caress, and. kiss for kiss, ah, then I am happy. myThou heart constantly not before my eyes alone, but in my heart. Oh, believe me, for why should I not speak the word, believe me, when I say I love thee, I love thee, yes! with all the force of my soul. I have nothing else to love after God. O Alfred! I must be with thee, with thee only. I speak freely, without fear. For if. I feared thee, I would I' oodt ve thee. We fear only the wicked, and thou art good, so good. Hiow solitary is my heart. I cannot content myself. Where is my loved one, who used to sit by myside? d to sit by my side?    424     TO-DAY: A   O   CE.          i Alas! he is now encountering dangers, while I can repose safely in my room. for an instant and  Before seaing this, I closed my eyes for a instant and saw thee in one of those happ momentsl Now Iam happy.  I have been ill, and could not continue my journal: but a kiss which I imprint on this spot will tell thee what the hand cannot trace. At length I am better; but for many days I was on a couch of pain. Alfred, dear Alfred, I confess it, I cannot  bear thy absence. Yet I have sffered less while I was so ill than when I am w ell. Thou wert always so lovingly before me. Whlat fair images rose before me, what castles of happiness, what pictures of domestic jo; ah, never, I fear, never to be realized, for time so mocks me; but I dream still. Wouldst thou know my happiest fancy Listen. I picture myself in a lovely cottage quite se- cluded, absolutely retired from the world, thinking only of thee, living only for thee. I am employed in some little details of the house, while thou art engaged in the garden among the plants and flowers. For me a single domestic serves to perform what is ecessary, without encumbering me with the care of serants. In the a non, hen the weather is fine, we spread our table uder the shade of beautiful trees; then you talk to me while I   THEI LOST PACKAGE.        425 work at my embroidery. Believest thou, dear one, there can be a greater happiness? Again I fancy myself going with thee over the whole world; always, always with thee while we visit new countries and climes. Yet the first is my happy dream, for I want nothing but to feel thy breath mingle with mine, to press thy heart against mine, and repeat as often as I will, 'I love thee, I love thee.' O Alfred, dear Alfred, what shall I do? What will become of me? There is no letter for nme! I should be distressed for thy safety; but watching eagerly, I find the steamer which carried thee has safely reached New York. Iow can I wait another week? how can I, Alfred? It is by some accident, I know; but how can I bear the delay? After ten more long, wearisome, wretched days and nights, almost beyond the power of my heart to endure, thy letter is brought to me. O Alfred, dear one, ever loved how couldst thou go so to wound a tender soul? Thy letter is in French! In French which we both detest for the language of the heart. Thou dost remember, Alfred, in our happy readings together of Wilhelm Mei- ster, what was said of this language, and how we both declared it was perfectly true. These paragraphs which I then marked in happy unconsciousness now strike me with terror. I must write them here, for they haunt me. "During the period of his kindliest connection, he wrote   426     TO-DAY;  A    ^ C .  in German, and what genuine, powerful, and cordial Ger  lan! It was nOt till he wanted to get qTit of mne, that he began to qwrite serioutsly in French. I marked, I felt wh\at he nzecant. Tvhat /he toould blush to utter in his mother tongue, he could by this means utter with a quiet conscience. It is the langucage of reservations, equivocationsi and lies; it is a perfidious language. Heavel be praised, I cacnnot find another word to express this PBRFrID of theirs in all its compass. Our poor TREULOS, the FAITHLES of the  lglish, are iznnocent as babes beside it." Am I foolishy nervus? are my wits unsettled, thlt I seize hold of this? For thy letter is kind and loving  Why should I speak in this way? I do not know I can-  not tell. Seventeen days of weary, desolate wating for its arrival have unstrung me. O God! why hast Thou created a heart to be so un- happy! Till I loved eeth I thought it impossible for me ever to love! Then thou gave me  *   a   +   #   #      *     I Clara held her breath till she struck on the next. Alas! not one word from thee!  Art thou vexed because I reproached thee for writing in French? Oh, forgive me. Write in what language thou   wilt, only write; write, I implore thee, I cannot longer exist in this way. H1er head distracted, her heart stone, she dropped the letters and opened the case which kept the miniature, and   THE LOST PACKAGE.        427 beheld the picture of a lovely young blonde, in appear- ance not more than sixteen, with large pensive blue eyes and innocent face, childlike in its expression of love and trustfulness. The ring fell on the floor. Clara picked it up as if its touch was deadly, and put it in its place; then she took off her own engagement ring, and laid it beside the other, and closed the case. At that moment the street-door bell rang sharply. She started to make her escape; but the servant hap- pening to be in the hall, opened the door immediately. She stopped just at the entrance, chained to the spot by the sound of Du Barry's voice. "Did you find a little package, James, after I left this morning? I think it may have fallen from my overcoat." I did not, sir. I should have been sure to have seen it, sir, had you dropped it. No one has passed in or out, sir, since you were here." They appeared to be searching a moment. Then Du Barry exclaimed, "I must have left it at my room," and he was off. The door was shut.  The sound struck on Clara's heart like the closing of the tomb on all she had ever loved. O         428     TO-DAY: A ROMANCE. CHAPTER X. DESOLATION,. PICTUIEE a beautiful palace, adorned with whatever human art can create, where all your years you have de- lighted to dwell, the very stones of which you love; every nook and portion of which are endeared to you by some happy memory, every apartment, the walls, the wainscoting, the pictures, each article of furniture and ornament associated with your happiest hours, and rwhich you leave in beauty and strength for a morning's drive, and return after a few hours to find nothing but blackened ruins and smouldering embers. Or rather, imagine whatever the heart can possibly conceive of happiness, overflowing, comprehensive, em- bracing earth and heaven, sun, moon, and stars, with sensations of bliss ecstatic, illimitable; of bliss which has no alloy, can never have alloy; this instantaneously to vanish-not diminished, obscured, hid, but-swept out of existence, ANNHLATED; nothing remaining except the bit- ter ashes of self-deception. What was left to her? To look in her own heart lwas  to look in an abyss of misery. If she looked abroad, she  saw nothing but empty delusions, which mocked her with jeering grimaces.   ES OLUTIO.         429. 429 CHAPTER XI. RESOLUTION. SLOWLY, painfully Clara ascended the stairs leading to her own room. As she approached it, she met Emily Ferris, who was running along in her usual high spirits. "Good gracious, Clara, what is the matter!" she ex- claimed, as her eyes fell on her. Clara made no reply, bnt walked on without appear- ing to notice the question.  "Are you ill?" Clara shook her head. "SometAig  has happened. I knov something dread ful las happened," continued Emily, as she followed her friend to her room. Clara sank into  a c hair without a word. Emily knelt  by her side. "My deal; darling child. Speak to me," she said. "Something fearful has happened; I know it has. Oh , at is the matter," she exclaimed piteously, as Clara continued to grow more deathke in appearance. "Let me send for Dr. C  astleton." Clara started at the n ame ." not ill," she said. "You are ill--you must be ill. I will send for Alf immnediately."   430     TO-DAY: A ROMANCE. Clara seized her arm, and held it as in a vice. "No, no, no," she ejaculated. Emily and Clara were very fond of each other. The affection xwhich the former now exhibited had a comfort- ing effect on the poor girl. "Emily,i she said, in a hollow voice, still holding her arm, " it is all over. I shall leave New York to-morrow morning. Help me to get away without-without-you know----" She could not finish the sentence. Emily continued kneeling by her. She smoothed her brow; she caressed, she soothed her until she became more calm; then Clara told her all. "You will help me to get away?" "Any thing, every thing, but--  "No buts, unless you would make me frantic. I will not meet him again, and you must help me. Let nothing be known by any body till I have gone."' They continued to converse together all the morning, and if Emily had any desire to reconcile matters for her cousin, she was borne down by Clara's strong, determined will. "I shall not tell you where I am going; then you can truthfully say you do not know; but you shall soon hear from me." This was the conclusion. After a few hours, Clara's self-possession seemed per- fectly to return. But it was the calm of hopelessness; the repose of the ship after being tossed high on the sands, beyond even the reach of the breakers which wrecked it there.   AN ILL WIND PROITS      BOD.    431 A"OFITS iOBODY.     431 CHAPTER SXII. IT IS AN ILL WINtD THAT PROpITS NOBODY. Du BARRY was considerably relieved when told by the servant that he had not dropped the package in the hall. This relief was of short duration when hurryinrr to his room he failed to find it t here. Could he have lost it in the street? Horrible idea. las it possible that Clara might have picked it up? Still more horrible. He did notdare return at once to inquire, lest he should excite suspicion. He would not venture at the printing- office. He continued in  a very uncomfortable position all the morning. ooEaly in the afternoon he repaired to Mr. Ferris'. Cool as be generally was, he could not control  a certain agitation as he rang the bell and inquired if Miss Dighy was in. He was answered in the affirmative. "I hope you found the package, Si" said J am es, as Du B  arry walked tovard the library. He did not app ear to hear the questio n. There was no one in the room;   but  after a few min - utes, Mi ss Emily came bounding along. Alf," she said,   A".A RAO,  A-TCE. TO-DAY   . 432              *rtune ti  "W Ne girls "you have come in a ery nopprtune t  me    atrls are specially engaged. Clara really can't come don at all. Come in this evening, won't you?" It was cone with naturalness none but a woman is capable of; but a vague suspicion hung at u Barry's heart. "Any thing wrong, Emily? tell me." G  tWrong? what do you mean?  "Oh, nothing; only, ou know, Clara is not usually en- gaged at this hour so as not to be able to see me."  "' That is very true, se repied, laughing; ill but there must be a first time, yo know. You will be in   t evening, of course."himse on Du Barry felt entirely reassured. le put himsel on his ignity. "I am not certain I can come this evening biscignity1 irst thing in the morning? Really, Alf, you must excuse me now, we are so much engage  A  revoir an  e ran away as gayly as she entered Tbese aw"I  t is a right" s u Barry to himself. "These " It is all ri^"        I 1M notIcttnT   girls are putting on airs. On the whole, I will not return this evening. I know Clara ill expect methe le went to his rooms, and resumd the search for the lost package. It is needless to say it was unsuccssfl. About nine o'clock the next morning, a u Barry was preparing to go out, there was a knock at his door. One of the servants of the house entered, an him a sealed packet e tore it It was directed in Clara's hndwriting.    AN ILL WIND PROFITS NOBODY.      433 open, and found his lost letters and the miniature. Me- chanically he opened the latter, and saw two rings instead of one. "I fancied as much," he muttered to himself. "Curse my follly for running in there when I ought to have known better; when I did know better. I will not give it up, though." He sat a few moments to collect his thoughts and con- coct an explanation. Then he took his way directly to Clara. "Miss Dighy left town early this morning, sir," was the reply of James to his inquiry. "Indeed! for what place?" "I cannot say, sir." "Is Miss Ferris in?" "Miss Ferris went out a few minutes ago, sir." He hesitated whether or not to go in and see his aunt. He decided not to do so, and walked away. In the afternoon he called again, and saw his cousin. "I know nothing about it, Alf; I mean the paitic- ulars. I only know it is idle for you ever again to think of Clara Dighy. She has left New York not to return." "Emily, where has she gone?" "I do not know. On my word, I do not know, and have not the least idea." Du Barry had pride. He would not accept a humil- iating position before, his cousin. "Very well, Emily," he said; "whether you know much or little is of no consequence. I shall not run after any body. If Clara is such a fool as to let a little bit of 19   434 434     TO-DAY' A.   OMAN  E. ", it is all the better that I know itnonsense come between s, it now."        loss where to go, when he left He was vy 'much at a   s the house of Mr. Ferris. He was desperately chagrined, but w t could he do? All New York, that is, all his but what couldl         afar Castleton-e set, would soon be talking about the affair. Castleton - be how could he ever meet Castleton? omething must be done--done speedily.  he had no real friends in New York. His supercili- ousness and generr I assumption made him particularly unpopular lie knew Clar well enough not to entertain a hope of reconniliation with her. 8What should he do? lie went back to his room to think it over. lie recalled the easy, untroubleome life he used to lead in that old German town; recalled it now with a soothing satisfaction. Other images came up in- sensibly. Other scenes connected with the still, quiet graneur of his European          a lovely young creature, who never gave him trouble or annoy- ance, and who was content to enjoy the happiness of loving him and being with him. The next day he ad taken his resolution. le fohad not, of course, kept his appointment wi to tharlotte pfor the exchange of letters. Now he prceeded to the prit- ing-otfice. lie purposely elected the noon-hour, and Ing-office. " i' r she wsjast leaving its sought her at the case. he was just leaving it. It was impossible for her to conceal a sortof satisfac tion at his presence, though she attempted to do so. "I brought your letters," she said, "but you did not come for them. I still have them with me." s   cm   AN ILL WIND PROFITS NOBODY.     435 "And I have yours, Charlotte, but I am not going to give them up.' "No!" "No. I have been reading them over word by word. I cannot part with them. You heard I was to be married, I suppose?" I know you are to be." "You are partly correct. I admit that. I would extenuate nothing. But you have been misinformed. I come to tell you I am yours only yours, that is, if you will forgive me, Charlotte." He looked at her tenderly. "This is no place for explanation," he continued. "Where were you staying?" "With an old Nuremberg family, who knew me in happy days." "But why did you engage in this strange way?" "For distraction. I have often told you how I loved to go when father was livings and stay with him in his printing-house, where I learned-at a little case he made for me to set the type just for a pastime, before I knew you. And I confess it, Alfred, I came here because I discovered that what you were writing was printed here. You know now my heart's weakness, and you can judge whether or not you are forgiven." Charlotte left the printing-office with Du Barry. She never returned to it. The explanation which he invented satisfied her loving heart. In one week from that day the two were on their way to the old world. l   436      TODAY    A RO  AN N E.  Charlotte's little fortune left by her father was quite  equal to the sum   Du Barry himself had.   United, it afforded a pleasant competence, that is, in a small way, where no demands of society or fashion need make in- roads on it. Such was the end of this singular affair. Charlotte always believed his love for her had finally    . prevailed. She never knew the true history of Du Barry's return.  ^     3.  (                ..H   AN ACCOUNT CLOSB;D.        437 CHAPTER    XIII. THE ACCOUNT CLOSED. WHEN Castleton learned, as all the world learned, that the match between Du Barry and Miss Dighy was broken off, that the former had sailed for Europe, and the latter had left New York, he was not so much affected by     the information as some of my readers may suppose. He had previously settled the whole subject with him- self. After a severe contest, his mind was composed. He had neither destroyed nor trampled on his feelings, but he had reduced them to control. When the extraordinary intelligence was bruited about, the first emotion, after surprise, which he exper- ienced, was sympathy for Clara. Knowing her as he did, he was satisfied some unhappy revelation had caused the termination of the engagement. He knew how her affec- tions would be wounded, how her pride would feel the blow, and he was sorry for her. He asked no questions, but rumor and gossip were too busy for him to close his ears to their reports. These reports were of every conceivable description. Thanks to the prudence of Miss Emily Ferris and the   438     TO-DAY; A ROMANCE.              celerity of Du Barry's movements, no particulars had leaked out, so that tattlers and scandalmongers were left to their own fertile creations-and these were indeed fer- tile. It was amusing to listen to the various absurd stories  put in circulation. Castleton paid no attention to them. Although he called occasionally on Miss Ferris, he never alluded to the topic, and that young lady did not intro- duce it.                        I Our hero did not for a moment entertain the idea that because Clara had broken with Da Barry, she would be any more favorable to him. Such a thought he would have regarded with extreme repugnance.  Besides, his pride-the pride which flows from proper self-estimation -would prevent the indulgence of any such fancy. Ite had put aside his heart experiences. They did not enter in combination with any of his present plans. Again, should Clara require his friendly sympathy,  [ was it not for her in some way to signify it, after the' emphatic statement he had made to her, coupled with a  i request to which she had yielded a tacit assent? Could she not at least through Emily Ferris readily acquaint  him with her residence?   Not doing this, was it not natural to infer she had no wish to meet him? I  do not affirm  whether he was in the right or no.  But it was in this way he disposed of the subject. And yet, was it reasonable to suppose that Clara, with her peculiar temperament, after such a mortifying occur-  rence, could ever, under any circumstances, put herself in    TBE ACCOUNT   T CLOSED.       439- Castleton's way, or do any thing which by implication would look like an overture? No, indeed! "Under this state of things, nothing remains for me but to " close the account" between them, and leave time to determine whether it shall be reopened.  .  b   "O     TO-DAY: A ROMAN3Oa CHAPTER   XIV. "NEWS BY TELEGRAPH.? THE scene opens on a Western prairie. There- is in sight a neat farmhouse, one story and a half high, with dormar-windows. It is painted a pure white, with green blinds. A handsome clump of trees stand on one side, the branches overhanging the roof. In front is a hand- some flower-garden, through which you pass as you enter the house. On the other side are two or three valuable "additions," which include a kitchen and wood-shed. Further on are barn and stables, partly hid by more trees. A large vegetable garden flanks this side. Thence you look off on an immense field of winter wheat, its sea of dark green waving gently in the morning air. On the right are large cornfields ready for the harvest; beyond all stretches the open prairie, reminding you, with its un- dulations, of the ocean in a peaceful mood. The sun is just rising. The occupants of the farm- house are still slumbering peacefully, unconscious of the EVENT which within a few hours is to cast a shadow over this picture, and change the relations of the principal characters. Abroad nature smiles lovingly-nature, never sympa- thizing with the passing joy or sorrow.   NEWS BY TELEGRAPH.         441 The denizens of the poultry yard are astir, making their quarters lively with their peculiar music. At no great distance you may see the wild turkey, the prairie hen, the pigeon, the dove, each commencing to celebrate the dawning of the new day. The antelope bounds over plain and hillock, and the rabbit nibbles his breakfast from the tenderest leaves. A peaceful scene!  Freedom from care and life's troubles (that is, beyond the dispensation that in the sweat of thy face shalt thou eat bread) seems to mark all this wide expanse. Broad acres, countless acres of God's heritage, here await the worn out, desolate, heart-broken inhabitant of great cities; here welcome his coming, here extend the promise of food to the hungry, of rest to the weary, comfort to the discouraged. While we afford ourselves freedom for these reflec- tions, signs of returning animation appear within the house. An active, fine-looking young man steps from the door, visits the stables, and presently gives directions to some men who are approaching from a little distance. You are agreeably surprised when you enter the place. The rooms are furnished with taste and a certain degree of elegance, not unsuited, however, to the house itself. [It was Holt who selected and forwarded every article, as you and I know. But this is an inviolable secret.] In one of the rooms a beautiful young woman, more beautiful, perhaps, than your eye ever before rested on, is engaged in setting the table for breakfast. She wears a pretty calico dress admirably fitted, which seems more be. coming to her than any thing else in the "world. 19*   "2     TO-DAY: A ROMANCE. Except that the beauty of her person is enhanced by the development of character, you can see no alteration in the Virginia Randall of former times, unless you should observe that there is a more healthful hue in the complex- ion, and a more vigorous sparkle in those large, gray eyes. Her mother comes in presently. She is still in mourn- ing. Her face shows that she has undergone sorrow. But she looks just as handsome as when we used to see her at the church of the "Apostolic Succession." Enter now "Charley Graves " from the open air. "Is not breakfast ready? I shall certainly be late for the train." "It is coming right in." "Do hurry it, Virginia. I have ten miles to drive, and unless I catch the morning train, I shall not get back to- night." While he is speaking, the breakfast is served-fricasseed chickens, roasted potatoes, hot biscuits, griddle-cakes, and a capital cup of coffee with rich fresh cream. "You have plenty of time to make a good breakfast, Charley," exclaimed Mrs. Randall. "You will need it before you get back. It was a rule with my husband nev- er to neglect his meals; he always gave himself full time for them, and you know how much he accomplished." Evidently this advice was followed. It was not till he could really eat no more, that "Charley " pushed back his chair, and said, "I have finished." The buggy, with a pair of fine horses, was at the door. He was to drive ten miles to the station, take the train   NEWS BY TELEGRAPH.        443 for L--, a town of some importance, twenty miles further on, return: in the afternoon train, and so home again. "Do not forget this; be sure you remember that. Are you quite certain you have my list? don't omit any thing on it," were some of the injunctions pressed on him. He kissed his wife good-morning. "Good-by, mother, till I come back," he said, as he jumped into the wagon, seized the reins, and was off. .  That afternoon, about four o'clock, Holt left the count- ing-room, and started on his way home. Contrary to his custom, he got in an omnibus when he reached Broadway. At the same moment, he purchased an evening paper. Turning to the "Third Edition," he looked for the "News by Telegraph." This was the first: "L-  Iowa, 16th, "Frightful Railroad Accident." Holt read the usual sad history.-Two trains in colli- sion on a single track. Great loss of life, with dreadful in- jury to the living. He knew the locality, and held his breath as he looked through the list of the killed and maimed. He was think- ing only that Virginia might be in it. He did not find her name. But he did read among the killed that of"Charles Graves, of N---, formerly of New York." Holt, a thousand miles off, received printed intelligence of this sad occurrence, while poor Charley's body was still   Aua    '. 'u-D AY;  A ROMANCE. warm, and while, only fifteen miles distant, preparations  were in progress to welcome his return with a comfortable supper. Such are the exigencies of the metropolis! Holt descended from the omnibus, and walked along   I the street with a slow step to his house. He scarcely touched his dinner. Going immediately to his room, he paced it all night. Of what was he thinkino? *.  *   *   -    . ' ' Two weeks later a man of respectable appearance called on Mrs. Randall, and made to her the somewhat extraordinary statement that he was indebted to her hus- band, the railroad contractor, in his, lifetime, in the sum I of two thousand dollars, which he had thus far-been unable  to discharge. Now, however, he could pay five hundred  I dollars of the amount due, and hoped within the year to  I liquidate the whole debt with interest. The unsuspecting lady took the money, regarding it as ! a special providence for the relief of her daughter and her-. I self at that melancholy crisis.   THB; SCHOOL-M6STR;S.       445 CHAPTER XV. THE SCHOOL-MSTRESS. MEHTABEL PETTENGILL was quietly engaged looking through the contents of an old writing-desk, in which vere kept her private papers and letters of a former day. They had not been disturbed for many years. Now she was going carefully through them, thinking to destroy the larger portion. The unchanged past (when we can lay hands on it) is a sad Reminder. It is a nelancholy occupation communing with your former self or with other persons as they once were. Melancholy, whether we regard the changes we discover as inevitable, or caused by treachery or caprice. It seemed particularly so to Mehitabel as she took up a bundle of neatly folded letters, around which was tied a piece of faded blue ribbon. She hesitated to open it, but sat in a deep reverie. "Mr. and Miss Pettengill " had, the year before, given up "The Select School," and retired to a quiet spot, their native place, in the outskirts of the pleasant village of A---, in Connecticut. They were getting old, and de-   "6     T-O-DAY: A ROMANCE, cided to abandon the charge of boys and girls before this circumstance should be considered to their disadvantage. Time had dealt gently with the school-mistress. Her hair was white, to be sure, but the hazel eye was still bright, and her form trim and elastic. Her heart was    ( young yet, and her feelings fresh.             i While seated in this quiet abstraction, she was roused by the sudden opening and shutting of the street-door,   . Almost immediately the door of her own room flew open,   I and Clara Dighy rushed in, and threw her arms around  her neck. W" mhy, Clara, my child! I did not expect you for a week; how glad I am to see you!"  Clara did not reply. She only clung the closer to her early friend and guardian. "What is the matter, dear," said the latter, seeing   I: Clara remained silent. ( Aunt Alehitabel, I have come to live with you for-  ever."  Clara's manner when she was excited was always touchingly simple. As she said this, Miss Pettengill re-  called the scene, when, a little child, Clara pointed from  her window, exclaiming, "There is the moonlight and the daylight and the morning star."               E With the same earnestness and the same simplicity she now exclaimed, "I have come to live with you for-  ever." Y Her guardian at once suspected what was the matter. . She gently disengaged Clara, and looking ill lher face, saw the unmistakable signs of what she was-suffering.   THE SC HOOL MST RE S S       447 "Nemesis - Nemesis," repeated the school-mistress audibly. Instantly recovering, she said, "Tell me at once, Clara, tell me now, on the spot, it is best you should." "I will, I will; but you cannot understand, you can- not comprehend what I suffer." "You do not know, my child, whether I can or not. Tell me, tell me all." Slowly and minutely Clara detailed the events of the preceding day. There was a short silence after she had concluded. Miss Pettengill appeared lost in thought. "At length she said: c( You have done well to come here, Clara, yet if what you tell me should be deemed cause sufficient to break engagements, how many people, think you, would be wedded?" "Don't you think it sufficient?" asked Clara, earn- estly. "I do, my child; but few TO-DAY would think so." "O Aunt Mehitabel," moaned the poor girl, " if you could but sympathize with me." "Hush," said the other, solemnly. Shall I tell you the story of my life?" "Oh, do, do." Clara seated herself on the sofa, and leaned her head on the other's shoulder. The latter was content, perhaps, to escape lber gaze. "My parents died when I was a small child, leaving scarcely enough for my education. When I was fourteen years old, I was- placed at a boarding-school for young   "8     TO-DAY: tA B  OMSANCE. ladies at W---. This place is three or four miles from N-- , where the University is located.  "When I was sixteen, I became acquainted, during theiL long vacation which I spent at W----, with a young gen-  tileman from the South. Hle was a member of the junior class, and was spending his vacation at N . In the two years which succeeded, the acquaintance ripened,    . until it became a love afftair I  "Strange, as you may suppose, I was called an attrac-  tive girl. My lover professed the most devoted attachment for me. He was handsome, of good family, and rich. My: own family was unobjectionable, but I was poor. This he  I did not regard. He used to say so a thousand times over.      '                    a "Every thing was settled. "We laid the most delightful plans for the future,-- what we would do on the plantation,--what we would do when we came North. "I was perfectly happy. No imagined bliss of heaven could equal what I enjoyed."                She paused so long, that Clara looked up, thinking she had finished.                       ; "We were to be married," continued the school-r is- tress, "as soon as he should graduate, for he did t     intend to study a profession. He was to go home, expl I every thing to his family, and come back and claim me.   i He wrote me as soon as he reached home. His father  was absent. He wrote again; his father had not returned. We continued to correspond.  Difficulties were in the  way. They seemed to accumulate. At the end of six !   THE SCHOOL-MSTRESS.        449 months I received a letter from his father; a long, tedious letter; the point was, I was requested to think no more of his son; it was a boy's freak, he said, and he presumed I would so regard it. A few days later, I had a regretful letter from my betrothed, saying he was compelled to bow to the will of his family, and in set phrase taking leave of me forever. "I was a young, simple, affectionate girl. It broke my heart-as much as a heart can break--and broken as it ever since has been, it has remained tender and sympa- thetic. "Time passed. I changed in a very remarkable man- ner, till I became attenuated and repulsive [" no, no," inter- rupted Clara], as you now behold me. 1My brother and I came to Scotenskopft and opened the school. I always formed strong attachments among my pupils. Some years after, one came to me that I loved to an extraordinary degree. She was artless, simple, confiding, as I had been, and beautiful. Besides, she was an orphan. '"One Sunday, there were strangers at our old church. One of them caught sight of my favorite, and fell in love with her. I did not know it. He hovered around the place for several weeks without my knowledge, obtaining stolen interviews. "I loved this girl as I would my child. She deceived  me-kept every thing from me. "One Saturday evening she was missing. The next  day after the morning service, she presented herself with this man, and was married before my eyes. In him I recognized my affianeed. Her husband was my former    450     TO-DAY: A ROMA3TCE.             , lover. It filled my soul with bitterness. I could never  quite forgive. But now I do forgive." ': What was his name?" asked Clara, without raising  her head. "It will be of no use to repeat it. It does not affect  my story. Do you not think I can sympathize with  you?"  "Yes, yes," she exclaimed, embracing the sehool-mis-  tress passionately. "And you have borne this all your  life?"  I have."  "God help me," ejaculated Clara.           i "He will," said the other, calmly.  She rose and led Clara to her room and left her there.  "I have done right," said Mehitabel Pettengill. "Why  tell her it was her own father who betrayed me? Why visit on the children the sins of the parent?         BOOK VII.   i? Lew. There's nothing in this world can make mejoy.  Pad. Before the curing of a strong disease,  Even in the instant of repair and health,  The fit is strongest; evils that take leave,  On their departure, most of all show evil.  Shakespeare.-King John.      , Clasp no more  These images; but stand apart, and ask          ! Happier events.  ZEschylus.--Tcebe, 267. Lee. Tere's lthi in ths 5 ord can mke me oy.  i Pad. Before the curinn of a strong diseaset   .s   B O 0 K     V I I. CHAPTER I. VIRGINIA. l . V IT seemed to Virginia, during the first months of her widowhood, that her happy days were gone forever. The presence of her mother relieved her from absolute solitude, and from too much care in providing for the lit- tle household. 5leanwhile, she indulged her recollections. She loved best to think of "Charley " in the time of his careless freedom-a young gentleman in society, when as her " beau," he delighted her heart by his unmis- takable preference. Their married life did not afford such happy reminiscences. Virginia enjoyed social life, and the scenes which belong to a city. She had been content on the prairie, but it was not to her taste to dwell there. After she lost her husband, her mind reverted to the period when she could be happiest in the thought of him. This carried her frequently back to her school-days, and to its associations. She recalled Charley's friend-E-llsworth. She thought of Bill Holt. The former had been always disliked, while Bill, though he little dreamed of it, had   454     TO-DAY: A ROMAPNCE.  ranked next to Charley in her regard. True, his position had placed him out of the pale of social intercourse, but  the strange, passionate creature greatly impressed her,  nevertheless.              .  Before she left New York, she knew of his rising for-  tunes, and while some were sneering at his " luck," she always expressed herself particularly gratified. Her rec- ollections of Holt were agreeable. She could not recall with indifference his intense unswerving devotion, for  which he had never received the least encouragement.  As the months wore away, some rays of light began to  penetrate to her imprisoned hopes. Something of her na- tive elasticity slowly returned. The world did not look  quite as dark. Possibilities of the future were faintly out-  lined in her imagination. She no longer dwelt altogether  in the past.  The wound she had received resembled a sharp cut, which in due season began naturally to heal, while Clara's might be compared to a severe bruise, requiring a lonig  delay and the application of remedies. Again, Virginia's regard for Charley belonged to the  earlier period of her life, running back, indeed, to her childhood, and though it continued apparently undimin- ished, because it had taken root, still, had she met him for the first time the day they were married, it is doubtful if she would have been attracted by him, or, on acquain- tance, would have accepted him for a husband. Herein is the cause of many unhappy marriages. Very young people indulge fancies for each other when their affections are still immature, their characters   VIRGINIA.          455 unformed, and their tastes undeveloped. They marry. Later, when they begin to question their hearts, they find wants unsatisfied and feelings unsympathized with. Then comes the fatal word-disappointed. Marriage is not the grave of love. It does, however, bring the test of close and intimate association to bear on unequal and ill-assorted dispositions, habits, tastes, tem- peraments, and capacities. And when, by reason of ten- der age, inexperience, or the force of circumstances, these things are not properly considered, there come, of course, unhappy marriages involving every thing conceivable, which is wretched and to be deplored.  These reflections, certainly, did not occur to Virginia, though they arise naturally from the subject. It is true that at a time when her own character was continually de- veloping, her husband's might be said to have attained its growth. He had settled himself to his prairie life without a thought or an ambition beyond it. Since every thing had been prepared to his hand, it required no great energy or labor to keep on. He was content. It was Virginia who had to exercise self-denial, and put a restraint on her aspi- rations. Charley was never aware of it. His wife was always amiable, always cheerful, and he took it for grant- ed she was perfectly happy. But to return to the young widow. As time advanced, Virginia's day-dreams began more and more to deal with the future. She often asked herself what William Holt was doing. How did he conduct him- self with his constantly increasing wealth? Had he heard   456     TO-DAY: A ROMANCE NC of Charley's death? Did he still feel as he used to toward  her?  To have had such a determined, desperate man, who   . had raised himself to fortune against such odds, who actu.  ally controlled destiny, to have had such a one her friend,  her champion! Was he still her friend? How would he  act, what would he say, should they meet? How would  she act?  These thoughts would float through her mind, despite j certain efforts to check them, while she forced herself back I to recollections of her husband. But the future soon  claimed her thoughts again, and every time she yielded, she felt it was more difficult to summon the past. Time had asserted its prerogative, and she was obliged  to submit.  The second year of her widowhood was more than half concluded. The Spring had come in great beauty. Flow- ers covered the prairie, and bloomed in her garden. Na- i ture revelled in fiesh holiday suit. Breakfast was over at the neat little farmhouse. Vir- ginia was in the garden. It was still early in the morn- ing. Happening to cast her eyes toward the east, she  saw a mounted traveller advancing slowly. It was a  common spectacle at that season of the year, yet she was . attracted by his appearance even at that distance. So  much so, indeed, that while busying herself with her plants, she continued, to glance from time to time in his direction. As the stranger came nearer, he slackened the pace of his steed to a slow walk, looking carefully around him, as   VIRGINIA.         457 if endeavoring to discover the bearings of some locality he was not familiar with. Without appearing to observe him, Virginia managed to obtain a pretty good view of the horse and rider. The former challenged her notice, from his immense size and beauty. He was jet black, a perfectly magnificent animal. The rider appeared to be tall and gaunt. He wore heavy boots reaching to his thighs, and instead of the rude hat of the country, had on a high, close-fitting cap, with a long front piece, which, while it concealed the upper part of the face, gave the wearer, as he sat erect, something of a military air. The holsters at his saddle-bow contained a double brace of revolvers. All this;Virginia discovered b   stolen observations, while the horseman was looking around him. The result of his inspection was that, changing his course a little he bore point-blank for the house. Reaching the garden- gate, he brought his horse to a  stand-still, and without attempting to dismount, sat like a man entranced: Vilrginia could not affect ignorance of the stranger's presence. She turned toward him, as if questioning what he wanted. The latter never moved. His heart 'was beating fierce- ly, every pulse responding with an accelerated movement. For there she was, in all the bloom of womanhood, a thousand times more beautiful than ever. lHolt dismounted [the reader has already recognized "m], threw his horse's rein over the paling, pushed open he gate, entered the garden, and strode to the spot where  he was standing. 20   458      TO-DAY:  A ROMANCE.  T)Do you not know me, Virginia?" He raised his cap as he spoke. He stood in his power; no longer a poor, half-deform- ed object, the butt of school-companions, but the imper- : sonation of force and energy, intellect and WILL.    j! It was no place for set form. His nature would not  jj endure the observance of conventional address.  "'Do you not know me, Virginia?"          I "Why, Mr. Holt!" she exclaimed, her face turning crimson; "is it possible? how glad I am to see you, how  delighted mother will be."                : "Vircginia," said Holt, in a tone and with a power  jj which it seemed vain to oppose; "Vircinia, my time has come. It is what I hoped-to meet you alone, in the  - f open air, free. I did not think to find you so perfect in E beauty, exceeding in loveliness all created things. Yet why not? Tell me, tell me, is my presence here agreeable." [Virginia was frightened, she did not know why. She felt she was subject to some irresistible force, a force which would seize her and bear her off, she knew not where, a force like destiny.]               "Virginia, answer me." She glanced timidly in his face, but did not speak. hi He did not misconstrue her, but he would leave nothing to doubt.  "Tell me," he repeated, :' here, as we stand together." She looked up again; a smile overspread her features.  Ah, who could resist it? Come in," she said, and led  the way to the house.  .!   SaJJ x kv.        r i7  CHAPTER II. CLARA. I SHALL not attempt to picture the wearisome days and weeks and months succeeding Clara's arrival at her peaceful haven. She endured every phase of heart anguish, till it be- came a luxury for her to indulge in it. Perhaps some of my readers may not understand this; others will exactly comprehend what I mean. After a period, we come to nurse our sorrow, sharpen- ing its point by calling up touching incidents and tender reminiscences. If by any possibility, time would seem about to temper its keenness, we take the alarm, refuse to be comforted, marshall our sources of distress anew, and devote ourselves afresh to a lasting despair. This is the veriest luxury of heart-sickness. For time thus far has been put at defiance; thus far, we indignantly scout the idea that it can ever have power to weaken our hold on our griefs. In Clara's case, it appeared as if her feelings would forever defy the tyrant. As no such character as she had pictured existed--no such ideal--so her distress had in it something supernatural. It was not the loss of a lover   "O     TO-DAY: A ROMANCE. ', that she bemoaned, but the death of her love-bemoaned with that silent lamentation so grievous to be borne. An evil spirit seemed to whisper to her: "Behold Clara, the end! Your brief life of love has found its close! What is now left to you?"  And her answer was: "'Nothing. What can remain    I to me after this?" She could exclaim with the unhappy Aurelia: c' Oh, how have I cast away my whole existence wittingly and willingly! But now will I despair, purposely despair."  I 31ehitabel Pettengill did not for a moment lose sight I of her ward. For a considerable time she allowed Clara's feelings to have full range. She made not the least attempt to assuage their force. She rather increased it  by her active sympathy. But when several months had   g: elapsed, and Clara, so far from showing signs of convales- cence, was falling into a chronic state of woe, the school- mistress determined to apply active remedies. She spoke with decision, not to say severity, to Clara. The latter could scarcely credit the change. Was it pos- sible for such a dear friend to act with such cruelty? At last she was provoked to exhibit her indignation. This wNas just what Miss Pettengill wanted. "I am so glad to see you rouse yourself, Clara. I like to witness an exhibition of your native fire. I had much rather you would be in a passion than lovelorn." "Lovelorn! Do you think I am lovelorn?"      1 "What else can it be, I would like to know. I canll comprehend a young girl's disappointment, and how she ',          ,    CLA RA.          461 naturally must suffer from it; but when she gets into this state I call it lovelorn." "It is a shame, Aunt Mehitabel, for you to talk to me in this way,i a cruel shame, when you know I have no other place in the world to go to." And she commenced to cry. "Clara, I shall exercise my best discretion in my treat' ment of you, for you have no mother to do so. It is time' that you roused yourself; do you expect to mope in this way forever?" "3lope! You call it moping! Have you no regard for, no sympathy with what I suffer?" "At present, I have very little. I have no idea of permitting you to throw yourself away. Thus far, your secret has been well kept. Go on in the course you are pursuing, and all the world will be laughing at you, or what you, will think worse, sympathizing with you-you, the elegant Clara Dighy, whose heart has been broken by her lover's desertion." "He did not desert me; I discarded him." "I know it, and I want you to act accordingly. The world will put their own version on it, if you withdraw from society another season." "As if I cared for what the world says!" "You will care much, I imagine. You were vexed with me for calling you love-lorn, how much more will you be scandalized, when all the world calls you so." "Nonsense," returned Clara; but she was impressed, nevertheless.   "2      rO-DAY: A ROMANCE. "The summer will soon be on us. I wish you to go to a gay, fashionable place," continued Miss Pettengill. "/Never; not even to please you, Aunt Mehitabel."  "I shall go. That I have determined on," said the other; ' and, Clara, I insist on your accompanying me. I have never endeavored to exercise ptre authority over you, but I shall do it now." She new very well that'only the excuse of obeying her commands would induce Clara to take the step. Some days after, Miss Pettengill looked up sidden- ly from a newspaper she was reading, and exclaimed,    0 "Here is a speech by your old friend, Mr. Castleton, at a great meeting in New York. He seems to be rising    ! fast."  Clara did not permit herself to exhibit any interest in the announcement.                      "I used to think," continued Miss Pettengill, "that Castleton and you would make a match." "I never thought of such a thing." "I dare say; but I am sure he did. He was in love with you, was he not?" "Why, Aunt, how can I tell?" "Just as young ladies can always tell. No girl ever yet failed to know it, when it was the case."  Clara was silent.  "A great pity you had not married him," continued   [ the school-mistress. "What a husband he would have    , made you!" "How shamefully you talk." "Not at all. You know how infinitely superior he al-   CLARA.           463 ways was to Du Barry, except in your idle, foolish imag- ination." "S That is nothing to the case, if I did not fancy him," retorted Clara, drawn insensibly into the argument. "Fancy him!' ' Fancy!' I never wish to hear the word again. Tell me, what think you now of Castleton, and what of the other?" "For Heaven's sake, do not go on so, aunt, you will drive me distracted. "It would do you good if I did. I want you to an- swer my question. Has not Castleton every quality a woman should admire and love?" "It may be; but I never thought of him, except as a friend." "Why don't you still continue to think of him in that light?" ' "Because-because-" "You have given your best reason, don't attempt a better," interrupted Miss Pettengill. "I wonder if Cas- tleton is paying his addresses to any one." "I don't believe he is," said Clara, again betrayed into a response. "Why?" "I shall have to say 'because' I fear." "A natural smile on your face! I declare, a natural smile on your face, Clara Dighy; the first I have seen since you came to me! Put on your hat, and let us go in the garden, and I will continue the subject in the hope of making you laugh yet." In this way Mehitabel Pettengill maintained her efforts   "4      TO-DAY: A ROMANCE. to dislodge the enemy. She ceased to express sympathy with feelings she now unhesitatingly pronounced to be mor- bid. Instead of medicaments- she used the knife. She en- E deavored to touch Clara's pride. She talked to her of future plans, and proposed in this connection, a long visit to  New Yobrk for the next winter. In a careless way she mixed Castleton's name a good deal with her general dis- course. Clara had corresponded with Emily Ferris with regular I ity, though at considerable, intervals. Emily, a lively girl, began at last to tireof letters more dolorous and monotonous  than those in the "Sorrows of Werther." At last she ral- lied Clara for continuing uc to be eternally moping." She I would describe her beaux, and invite her friend to re-  i join her, when they would divide and conquer.  She   j would also tell her what was going on in their old set. Castleton was frequently mentioned. He was, in Emily's phrase, "perfectly splendid." He had improved so much, was quite a man of the world. He went everywhere, was heard of everywhere; every body was talking about him. :"Report has it," wrote Emily in one of her letters,  i "that he is attentive to Miss Barlow." "I don't believe a word of it," Clara exclaimed to her-  self. "What is it to me?" she thought immediately af-.  terward. And yet she could not help hoping it was not    true!                           I How selfish                       ! ,  n   SARATOGA.           465 CHAPTER III. SARATOGA, TRUE to her, plan, Miss Pettengill insisted on a Sara- toga excursion. Clara was beginning to feel satisfied with the compul- sory process, and resigned herself to obedience. The Saratoga trip, of course, made a visit to town necessary for the purposes of a fresh wardrobe.  The school-mistress accompanied her ward.  Clara had de- clined Emily Ferris' invitation, and they stopped at one of the large hotels. Promiscuous shopping, interviews with dressmakers, milliners, dealers in fancy goods, and a thousand other trifles kept Clara busy enough. It was amusing to see Miss Pettengill for the first time in her life assuming an intense interest in what before never seriously occupied her thoughts. The exact tint of a ribbon, the imperceptible difference in certain shades of silk, the precise color most becoming for a hat, and, above all, the fitting of the various dresses. I have seen many distressed women in my day, many melancholy ones, who could take no interest in family, relations, friends, or any thing else; many so sad and   "6      TO-DAY: A ROMANCE.              i dispirited, that they were ready to welcome death any time he chose to make his appearance; but I recall no one of them all who was indifferent to the fitting of a dress. Clara was not an exception. Indeed, I am of opinion she exhibited more than her usual care on this particular occasion; her selections-and she allowed herself a great. er variety than usual-were more rich; in fact, she spent ? more money than ever before. , I dare say some would have called her extravagant. Miss Pettengill did not; on the contrary, she encouraged her in this proceeding, till Clara's mind was perforce absorbed in her preparations. She made no visits, saw   I  none of her friends, but devoted herself to her mission-- emphatically woman's mission. Emily Ferris was an exception. The two saw much of each other, and were, very confidential. Clara asked no questions, but Emily ventured to say that there was no news from Alf, except that he drew regularly the ir- come of his little property through her father, and that   this was sent to Nuremberg. Clara did not meet Castleton during her stay; indeed, he was not aware she had been in town till after she left. In due time they set off for Saratoga,-Clara and Miss Ii Pettengill--leaving Mr. Pettengill at home to his books   and his improvements.                   I As usual, Clara attracted a great many superior people  around her. She found many acquaintances, and once in   ? the vortex, she was forced to do as others did. This was  the excuse she made to herself..   SARATOGA.          467 When she went back to her quiet home, she would return to the thoughts and feelings and the heart-pangs which she loved so much to cherish. Would she? It was in the midst of the season, Clara was standinog with a number of friends near the main entrance of Con- gress Hall, where they were staying, when she saw Cas- tleton enter in company with two or three gentlemen. They had evidently just arrived. ["What is the matter, Clara Dighy? you feel an unac- countable emotion; formerly the sight of your friend would not stir your pulse in the slightest, nor in the least degree possible ruffle your composure. Why is it that now your heart almost ceased beating, and then throbbed so violently that it shook your whole frame?"]  She watched him as he passed in. He was engrossed conversing with his companions. "How he has changed," she thought. It appeared to Clara as if his mind was so much occupied with affairs, that there was room no longer for an affectionate interest in her. But he had assured her of that, he had taken pains to promise her that, when he knew she belonged to another. As she looked at him now, it seemed as if he must have forgotten the circum- stance, or, at least, that he had no time to recur to it. There were no marks on his countenance of heart-disap- pointment, none. As the gentlemen stood in the hall, waiting for the servant, something was said by one of them which pro- voked the laughter of all. That of Castleton struck to   "8     TO-DAY: A ROMANCE. her heart-it was so easy, so free. She changed her posi- tion, and sought another part of the room. Castleton and she would meet. That, of course. It would be ridiculous affectation to avoid him. But she did not see him that evening. It seems there was a convention of some sort to be held in the town the following day, which Castleton came to attend, and where he was expected to speak. Clara heard this accidentally. He did not come, it seems, for any other purpose. The next morning, before breakfast, as Clara and Miss Pettengill were going to the Spring, they met Castleton returning. While he was shaking hands with the latter, Clara had time to regain her composure, if indeed it was necessary. The address of her old lover was easy and. natural. "An unexpected pleasure," he said. "I was unde- cided till the last moment about coming here; had I known whom I was to meet, the question would have been settled at once." "You did not know we were here?" asked Miss Pet- tengill. "I now recollect; last spring Miss Ferris told me you had both been in town, and that you thought of coming here this summer; but I had lost sight of it." Clara looked at him earnestly, to divine whether or not what he said could be really so. It was really so. "You will excuse me this morning," continued Castle-   SARATOGA.-          469 ton.; "but later in the day my time will be my own, and with your permission I will devote it to you." He shook them both by the hand, and passed on. Miss Pettengill said nothing; she was disappointed. Clara said nothing; she was lost in thought. It was not till late in the afternoon that Castleton could see them again.* Then all the gentlemen (except the brainless fops who float about in vapid insipidity) were talking of "the eloquent speech Tom Castleton of New York had made." Clara heard the praises bestowed on him, and felt a satisfaction in them. She was beginning to wonder where he was, when he came up and joined them. Con- gratulations followed, and conversation flowed naturally. Miss Pettengill soon found occasion to go to her room, and Castleton and Clara were left alone together. It appeared to make not the least difference with the former. X What he said, it is true, was more personally addressed to Clara than before. He spoke freely of him- self, and of what he was doing or attempting, but the old confidential tone was no longer there. A stranger might Irave listened to all, and not perceived there was more than a friendly acquaintance. They talked late into the evening, and Castleton bade her good-night, so she thought, quite as he would have said good-night to Miss Pettengill. He was to return to New York by the morning train, and told Clara he should see her before he 'eft. As he came from the breakfast-room, he beheld her going out to the grounds opposite the Hotel.   470     TO-DAY: A ROMANCE. He hastened to join her. They stood talking pleas- antly of indifferent things for a few minutes, when Castle- ton looked at his watch. I must " say good-by," he exclaimed hastily. "I have no time to lose." He shook her hand, and turned to depart. Clara felt that her destiny hung on that very moment. Dared she let it pass in this way? A desperate resolution took possession of her, a reso- lution which brushed away pride and false reserve. "Mr. Castleton!" she cried, faintly. He turned with a suddenness which nearly overcame her. She cast her eyes on the ground. c; Do you still bear in mind what you demanded of me when we last met," she asked, in a low tone. ( More distinctly than on the day I made the request of you," was his prompt and earnest response. "That is all I wished to know; adieu." "It was due to myself as well as him, after his noble conduct then," soliloquized Clara.-She felt a repose when she resumed her walk, such as she had not for a long time experienced. Castleton did not hear Clara's question without emo- tion. On the contrary, he was stirred deeply. But he had suffered too much in his effort to put himself at rest lightly to disturb equipoise. He had zealously pursued the plan he had marked out, wherein the gratification of no personal desire found admittance. He entertained not the slightest reverence for the rich and powerful; his   SARATOGA.          471 Sa soca.          ai4 active sympathy was for those who were "low down." He strove to make his personal life a good lifk practically. In his route homeward he could not help revolving what Clara had said to him. She had called him back. Why had she asked if he still remembered? The summer went by, the beautiful autumn came again, and with it the return of the "world " to town.   472     TO-DAY: A ROMANCE. CHAPTER IV. THE NEW YORK SEASONr. THE New York season was a brilliant one. Some fresh debutantes of remarkable beauty and wealth in- creased the list, and were soon in the front rank-s" eager to run the race." Looking at the gay assemblages, the cynic might have exclaimed after Mephisto: "These people are now in their glory, mark how merry they be!" The moralist as usual took occasion to preach his lesson, and the priest his sermon--"I am holier than thou," mixing a good deal in both. They forgot to say there are worse things than vanity and pleasure-seeking. Hy- pocrisy is worse; so is avarice; so is thirst for power. However, the whirl of gay life went on undisturbed by criticism, cavil, or satire. Castleton took a certain part in it, as he did in all things which flowed. And a little later, Clara Dighy ap- peared on the scene. She had consented to visit her best friend, Emily Ferris, and the two were soon engaged in the duties of the campaign. We must confess it with proper humiliation, notwith- standing the assertion that her feelings nzever could  change, expressed with such certainty just one year before, there was Clara Dighy on a bright, cold, freezing   THE NEW   YORK SEASON.       473 night muffled in shawls and furs, entering the carriage for an evening out! Nature struggles always to heal. It asserts itself our wise superior. Our limited reason is powerless in the presence of this great vis medicatrix. Clara did not care to look in the face of her former resolutions. She could simply confess to the value of ex- perience.-Thus Castleton and she resumed their former relations. Not quite. True, he came at once to see her on her arrival, and his visits were frequent. But positions appeared to be re- versed. It was Clara's heart that beat quicker when Castleton approached, and it was Castleton's pulse which was calm.-So fickle and capricious are the phases of the tantalizing divinity called "Love!" The winter passed swiftly enough; but the Spring brought no change. Castleton did not flatter himself that he enjoyed more than-Clarals friendly regard. He dared not run the risk of disturbing the calm in which he was entrenched.   4'74     TO-DAY: A ROMANCE. CHAPTER V. THE VISIT. EARLY in the ensuing summer, Holt returned from a brief Western excursion with his wife! Virginia and he were married. No one can describe the happiness of these two. IIolt's intense nature was just suited to Virginia's happy and appreciative disposition. Her mother did not accompany her. She had received in her house an elder sister with a grown-up son, and she preferred to retain the independence of her prairie-life. The widow Holt welcomed Virginia with open arims. Her cup, as she expressed it, was full. Holt himself received the hearty congratulations of his friend Castleton. "Am I not soon to congratulate you?" he asked. "I fear not. The day has passed with me," replied Castleton, calmly. "Nonsense!" exclaimed Holt. "Why don't you mar- ry Miss Dighy? Are you no longer in love with her?" "I do not know how to answer that question," he re- plied, smiling. "Don't know! as if it was a matter one could have  i any doubt about!"  "You understand, Holt, there was no doubt about it but-                          I i,   THE VISIT.          475 ;' You don't mean to say if you did love her it made any difference because she engaged herself to somebody else?" asked Holt, with a spice of his old ferocity. "I mean this," replied Castleton, " if a young woman did not return my affection, I should at least endeavor to quiet my own." "There it is now," said Holt, laughing. "I don't un- derstand this calm sort of passion. Miss Dighy and you N have been playing see-saw, so it seems to me; but I did not think'you could ever become indifferent to her." "You are quite right. I never can be so!" "Then make haste to declare yourself  She is desper- ately in love with you-her best friends say so." "You joke!" said Castleton. "I do not. Don't throw away your chance. I want to see you enjoy life as I do. I little thought I should ever be before you." They separated. Castleton paid little attention to small talk generally, but what Holt said affected him much, if I must say it, unsettled him.  He thought the past over and over. He recalled the events of the winter. It was true, now that he came to reflect,-Clara's manner toward him was differ- ent from  what it ever had been before-very different. How could he have failed to see it? And his own con- duct! did it not appear cold and unsympathizing after all he had promised? might not one imagine there was a spice of retaliation in it,? It was a lovely June day, not a week after his conver-   476     TO-DAY: A ROMANCE. sation with Holt, that Castleton set out for the quiet abode of Mr. and Miss Pettengill. As he inhaled the perfume of fresh flowers, along the way, he thought of the "Select School" and the " little Clara." Was it possible? Was he about now to visit the "little Clara?"Had he determined to stake his hap- piness on the result? So it would appear. He reached the village late in the afternoon, and walked to the house. Clara was in-doors. She received him with a joyful surprise. She did not attempt to disguise it. The family were just taking their places at the tea-table, and Castle- ton joined them. Mr. Pettengill had many questions to ask of his old pupil, and, in fact, quite monopolized him. After tea, Clara and her friend walked together on the verandah. They began talking of their old school-teach- ers. This led them to their school-days. "I remember just how you appeared to me the day I returned to Scotenskopft, after the long vacation," said Castleton. "And I see you at this moment," cried Clara, "as you descended from the 'stage' and came through the little garden-gate." They regarded each other-I know not how it was- with an expression which became rivetted. Clara's large, lustrous eyes beamed on her lover, meeting his own en- raptured gaze. It was a moment of soul recognition. "Clara," said Castleton, " let us unite our lot."   THE VISIT.          4" He extended his hand toward hers; she placed her own within it, and their destiny was sealed. Young ladies! Have I violated all your preconceived notions, all your tender sensibilities on the subject of "first love" by this disposition of my characters? Happy shall I be in so doing, if I thereby disabuse you of certain ideas too apt to be cherished, and which lead inevitably to an unhappy future. A one love there is, which, by its transcendent unity and harmonious life, produces the most perfect earthly bliss; and once enjoyed, no new sentiment can take its place; its memory is dearer than any possible reality. But if it is not permitted to you to be thus blessed, do not on that account discard an honest, genuine affection which still may make you very happy. "Is this the end?" inquired my publisher, to whose critical taste I am generally ready to defer, and to whom I had read what I intended to be the " concluding pages." "Is this the end?" he asked, with some surprise. "Yes. "Don't you propose to say any thing more of Mrs. Delaine?" "Every body, I am sure, has read the account of the trial in the newspapers.' I thought it superfluous to men- tion it." '"I don't mean that. I know the will was set aside (your friend Croton Ellsworth, was said to figure disoredi- tably as one of the witnesses), but the lady would still be rich. Let us know what became of her."   X    1'TU -J A X A VL U LAX IN D . r After the trial, which involved disgracefully many respectable parties, Augusta Delaine disappeared. She had left the entire settlement of her affairs in the hands of Horace Pulsifer, and she never has since been heard of in the gay world. A year ago, when Castleton and his wife made their European tour, they spent several weeks in Paris. On one occasion, as they were coming out of the church of St. EustachU (Clara happened to precede her husband) Castleton felt some one pluck his sleeve. He turned, and beheld one of the Sisters of Mercy-a   I company of angelic women whose devotion to the des-    titute and the suffering, the sick and the dying, makes their name revered over the world-he beheld one of these, who beckoned him to step a little aside. A spell was on him, like that which held the wedding-guest  when detained by the Ancient Mariner. He complied    i- with the summons. The "Sister" drew herself up slight-  ly and removed her veil, displaying to the astonished  . Castleton the features of Augusta Delaine! Her face exhibited the paleness which (in the sex especially) results  from a perce struggle with prevailing passions; but all evidence of these had vanished. She regarded him intently for a moment without speaking. A slight tinge faintly overspread her countenance, but it as speedily disap- peared. "I learned by chance," she said, "that you were in Paris, and I wished much to see you. I desired to tell you how I have found peace of mind, the only true conso- lation, in devoting myself to the unfortunate. You are happy with the wife of your choice, but not happy as I am happy. God bless you both."   4'9 She disappeared through a small chapel, leaving Cas- tleton to rejoin his wife, who was waiting in a somewhat surprised sort, wondering what had become of him. "Did he give his wife an account of the interview?" I have no means of knowing." "Then, with all her foibles, this gay and unscrupulous woman of the world found abiding peace in advance of the calm, wise, consistent Castleton! , "It would seem so." "What of the Rev. Croton Ellsworth?, "You must knov quite as well as I, that he has the most fashionably select curch in New York, and that he has just accepted the Pope's invitation to attend the Ecumenical Council at Rome.", "So his connection with the Delaine will case did not njure him with his congregation? , "Not a bit." "And his reprobate brother, the sailor?" "Is off on another three years' cruise, his wages mean- me support the 'old woman,' his mother." "Jacob Illingsworth?" Was brought home from his club one evening 'feet e  t,' ason his bedfootman pathetically expressed it, and Iced on his bed. He was struck with death, and could speak; but when his distracted wife came to his side. essayed to look on her, and their eyes met. Both ught of the happy days of their earlier wedded life h a pang that could not be softened. He died the e night, and left his widow immense wealth and bitter lections. Harry Ellsvorth succeeded him, and doubt. will become as rich as he, if he lives as long."   480     TO-DAY: A R O I ANCE. C Did William Holt ever tell his wife the secret of the prairie-farm?" "Not for two or three years. Not till he was more than satisfied her delicacy could not be wounded by the avowal. When they were so entirely one that she would be made the happier by knowing the truth, he confessed." "Did he continue to attend that Methodist ' meeting?'" "Regularly, and his wife always accompanied him." "Once more, and I have done. Pray, let us know something of Du Barry." Du Barry? Of him I can only tell you that Ralph Holbrook (who was Du Barry's most intimate acquain- tance in New York) returned yesterday from Europe in the 'Ville de Lyon,' and reports seeing him in Nurem- berg. Was invited to dine with him. No; I mean he invited Du Barry. 'In the evening, Du Barry asked Ralph to his lodgings, where he found his wife, a lovely young woman, with several children." "The -- ! Excuse me,' several,' did you say?" "Certainly, why not? His wife appeared to be the happiest creature in the world, and Du Barry the most  contented fellow he had met for a long time."  ( And that is the upshot of his foreign education?"  Y' es."          -             i My story of "TO-DAY " is finished. If it should occur to you that the performance does not sustain so ambitilons a title, I have only to reply in the words of my friend Pulsifer, "Glimpses! Glimpses!" ,     .. .   I: I s                 
         
       
   
