
    ----CITATION----
        Richards, A. M., Mrs.. Memories of a Grandmother .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC7568
    ----FULL TEXT----
         
      
         
            Memories of a grandmother 
            
               MEMORIES OF A GRANDMOTHER. BY A LADY OF MASSACHUSETTS.  My path lies in a valleys which I have sought. to adorn with flowers. Shadows from the hills cover it, but I make my own sunshine. EXUOHANOE. j BOSTON:       GOULD AND LINCOLN, 59 WASHNGTON 'STREET. NEW YORK: SHELDON, LAMPORT & BLAKEMAN, NASSAU STREET. 1854.   Entered according to Act of Confess, in the year 1R54, by GOULD & LINCOLN, In the Clerk's Office of the District Court of the pistrict of Massachusetts; Geo. 0. Rand, Printer, 3 CoMhM, Boto.    MY  DEAR  CHLDREN, WHO THOUGH DIVIDED BY, DISTANCE, ARE UNITED IN INTEREST AND AFFECTION, THS LITTLE WORK, AS THE. YOUNGER OFFSPRING OF A MOTHER'S PRODUOTION AND CARE,   lffzctouatilg   vzebicatjeb, BY ONE WHO HAS BEEN SPARED BY PROVIDENCE TO RECORD AS OF HER OWN EXPERIENCE, THE "MEMORIES OF A GRANDMOTHER."  EDITOR'S PREFACE.  AT the risk of "suffering the private !" to be considered as " too much in the public eye," the following veritable Auto-biography is given, as originally written, in the first person-rather than venture- upon such a change of phrase- ology as the Editor might have been authorized to make.  Such a  change would have been, as he   believes, at the expense of much of the interest of the, original work; a work  which he can. now confidently commend to 1 * '  "      - 6     EDITOR'S PREFACE; the public, as replete  with interest- ing and instructive incidents, sketched in a graphic style-varying, with the sub- ject, "from grave to gay, from lively to severe." That "truth is often stranger than fiction," is apparent even from the seem- ingly quiet life of a  -New  England "Grandmother "-- the  trial of whose "faith has worked patience, 'and patience experience, and  experience hope," as shown by an enlightened improvement of life's privileges and duties, and a cheer- ful submission under its many afflictive dispensations. G. K. A1i   CONTENTS. CHAPTER       I. Whlere Born -  Early Residence with Paternal Grandparents, at H.--Parting with her Mother-- Picture-remembrance of her Father--Notice  and Anecdote of Major H.- Feelings of Childhood- Early  Discipline- Religious Strictness of the Family--A Brilliant Episode-The Old Cottage Clock, ............... 13 CHAPTER II. Quiet tenor of Early Life--First Grief--Death   of her -Father-Return  of her Mother--Her  Appearance Impressions Produced-Notice of little Brother, and Inci- dent regarding him--Remove to Maternal Grandparents, at 0.--Notice of a   Great-grandparent -Feelings at leaving H.- Enjoyment  of the Journey- Anecdote respecting her Father's Death, .................... ... . 26   8           CONTENTS. CHAPTER      III. Further Notice of her Mother- Situation of her Grandfatlher's Family, at 0. --Description of her Grandmother and Grandfather - Her own Feelings - Early Reverence for the Bible - Reputation of being a Poet - Effusion of a little Sister - Desire to be Beloved - Early Sensitiveness - Influence of Family Devotion,.....  ................. 30 CHAPTER IV. Harmony of Feeling .at 0.--Notice of her Uncle--First Lesson in Gunning - Description of her Aunts - Love for the -Rustic Drama --Reputation as a Village Per- former-Acting of "Alexander. and the Robber"- ' Uncle Nealus "- Girlish Craft- Personating the Grand- mother - "The Biter Bit," ............................ 387 CHAPTER     V. A Country Village Characterized - A Descendant of an Aristocratic House -Impressons Produced by his Life and Death-The Village Dentist-His " modus oper- andi " -Physical Effects and Philosophy of it- The Village Sexton -- "Hannah  Screecher's Island "-- Her Ghost, and the Chest of Gold-"Aunt Lizzie Roe"- Her Engrossing Passion-"Aunt Molly and Uncle Zack" -Story of the Coffin- League for its Destruction-- Accomplishment of it--Poor Allan's   Sickness and D eath,      ................................... ............. 46   CONTENTS.              9 CHAPTER     VI. Going to a City School-Feelings at Parting with Home Friends -- Reveries over her Studies -Distaste to City Life-Marriage Engagement--Notice of her Affianced -Objection of her Mother-Appeal to and Approval of her Grandmother-- Leaving her Mother, and Departure for O.- -Equipment for Journey--Adventure with the Mysterious Box- Relief from  a Trying Dilemma,..... 66 CHAPTER       VII.  Thoughts of her Mother, and Reflections on Early Disobedience - Becoming a   Wife - First Practice of her Husband as a Physician, at O. - Going East and Settling anew - Reconciliation  of her Mother-Happiness in Wedded Life - An Unsought Discovery - Becoming a Mother - Portraiture of her Infant- Reference to his after Life '-Il   Success of her Husband--His Repugnance   to Country "Barter"Practice --Resolution to leave for the W est  Indies,... ................................ ....... 62 CHAPTER     VIII. Departure for the West Indies -Feelings and   Prospects Passage Out--ncidents on Landing at St. T.- Descrip- tion of Lodgings and Hostess, Mistress. K.--Her "Per- suasive"Habits-The Slave Cecilia--The White Baby - Amanda, the Mother-Notice of the Father--Unsuc- cessful Desire to Buy his own Child -Mistress K.'s single spice of Romance, and Amanda's Nursing-Sick- ness and Death on  the Island-A   Spider Inmate--   "O          CONTENTS. Room-mate of the Hostess, and "Luck of the House" -Acquaintance Extended -Hill Residence of Americans -Anecdote of a Baron - Reference to a Benevolent Lady, ............................................. .. -Lady, .. 67 CHAPTER IX. Bright Anticipations Frustrated -Death of her Husband - Apprehensions in regard to Burial - Saddening Reminis- cences - Appearance after Death -Feelings in View of the Bereavement, .   .............  .................. 74 CHAPTER X. The Apathy of Grief- Awaking to New Life- A      new Abode, and a new Friend--Her Kind Care and Con- solations-Description of Mrs. S.' Light on past Dark- ness - Sympathy for young W.-   Welcoming her Child, 78 CHAPTER XI. Reason again Overwhelmed-Visit to her Husband's Grave -Conseiousness Aroused--ind Offices of Dr. S.-His Liberal Offer-Explanation of Professional Practice at St. T.- Kindness of Inhabitants.-The "Hot Milk" Vender - The Handsome   "Mustee "- Preparation  to Return to the United States - Affecting Interview with young W. - His Gift, and Early Death- Call from the Slave Manning-His Touching Appeal-- His Delicate and Kind Present - Severe Passage Home - Notice of   CONTENTS.              " a Fellow-passenger - His Illness and Despondency - Her Restoration to Friends,......    .............   84 CHAPTER XII. Return to O.-Change in Appearance and Feelings--Descrip- tion of her little Boy -After-Reminiscence and Picture- View of him, and of his Child- Interest in her-little Son, and  Gratitude for Sparing Mercies-Hymn   of Consecration - Appearance of the Family Circle at 0. - Description of her Grandfather - His Holy Life and Conversation  Reference to  his Death, and  Public Obituary Notice of him, .......... 91 CHAPTER     XIII. Return to her Mother - A new Acquaintance - His Character and Professions -His Change of Matrimonial Views - Its Manifestations and  Consequences- A  Quiet and Happy Marriage   Reflections on After-Attachments - Reference to a Gifted Friend and her little Boy - Return- ing Happiness - Birth of Children - Death of her little Daughter-The Grief-Struggle and Affecting Remem- brances, ..9..  ...*.......    ....   ...     99 CHAPTER     XIV. Time's Relief-Interest in her Two Sons  Birth of Another Daughter- Affecting Circumstances attending-A  Com-r forter in After Life-Afflictive and Peaceful Death of her Husband - Sympathy and Grief- Feelings under Repeated Bereavements,   ............................ 104   12          CONTENTS. CHAPTER, XV. Return to 0.-Healing Influence - Object in Life - Horse- back Ride and Accident--Rescue of Mother and Child - Affecting Village Funeral-Poetical  Memories- t"Autumn in O[."- "Little Cousin's Picture" -"Invi- tation to W. J. D."--"The Sabbath Bell,"........... 107 CHAPTER      XVI. A City Home--Sad Associations connected with it-Change of Residence, and Introduction to New Scenes - Tem- porary Quiet--Adverse  Circumstances-Breaking up of Household, and Departure of her Sons- Sale of Furniture at B. - Lines on "The Auction "- Sadness at Absence of Sons, and Solace of a Daughter-Anec- dote regarding her - Lines on her Birthday --Loss of Savings' Bank Deposit - New Resolution and Action - Occupation as a Teacher-Its Healing Influence- Feelings and Views of Life--Poetical Effusions- The Tree and the Vine," and "The Cottage for Me,"..... 119 CHAPTER XVII. Object of the Work - Painful and Grateful Reminiscence of a Son's Sickness - The Church  cene - The Storm and the Calm - The Son's Happy. Rest0ption to Health -His Marriage--Poetical Tribute "Tb   S., on her. Wedding Day" - Lines "On Receiving My Son's Pic- ture"- Reference to other Pieces, and to a Deceased tJncle-"Lament for Percy"--"Invitation to F."- ";My Uncle's Dream"- The Author's Varied Experience and Views - Conclusion of Personal Memoir,.......... 129   MEMORIES OF A GRANDMOTHER. INTRODUCTORY CHAPTER. -I DARE not smile upon you, dear and respected Public, on opening my Book, as my heart with tears in its eyes is :smiling, anxiously awaiting your verdict of, pleasing or not pleasing. Afraid that your impression might not be of a nature to take you beyond the picture, I leave you to shape my likeness according to your own imagination, and I am sure to have justice done. I once :sat to Inman for a portrait, while that skillful and interesting artist was pupil to Jarvis ; and his conversation the while was- -so full of wit and spirit, it infused a life and soul into the painting that has never been caught since. At a more recent date, while sitting, in the " saloon ' of an artist- 2   "   MEMORIES OF A GRANDMOTHiR. a saloon borne about from village to village by oxen - I received a new thought from the daguerreotypist, which gave an expression of gravity to my face never since removed. After various sittings most unsatisfactory-- one with the mouth too large, another with the expression too grave, a third presenting an affected style, with a kind of contraction very unnatural about the lips - I shook my head, and turned disgusted away. Mr. Brown rolled back his wristhands, and, looking me quietly in the face, said he wanted to tell me something. Fearing he might be offended at my ingratitude for his labors, I assured him that I was willing to pay, but did not want the picture; evincing, however, my readiness to hear his remark, which was, that I hadn't a bit of expression in my face when I wasn't talking! Here was an assertion -how humiliating, -here then was the mystery.   My grand- mother, of hallowed memory, was often chid- ing me for much speaking.  "Little girls," she said, "should be seen and not heard,"- while I wished to indulge in both privileges at once. The assertion was a curious one for   MEMORIES OF A GRANDMOTHER.   15 \a daguerreotypist, where stillness is all in all -and  where the result of any  other course is well characterized in the April num- ber of the Knickerbocker, by the anecdote of an old man and two little boys, who were being taken on the same plate. "When they were got under successful headway, the artist spoke to one of the little boys, telling him to sit still; upon which the old gentleman turns around, and, patting the boy on the head, repeats the injunction,-- 'Yes, sit still, my son I' The plate was of course spoilt." The assertion of my artist friend thus draw- ing likenesses, as it were, by oxen - was a strangely honest one for a daguerreotypist, whose craft to a certain extent, would surely be in danger on any other ground than the very common one, that nature always hits the mark, through her accredited agent the sun; and that nobody is a correct judge of his own likeness. I recall another incident respecting this unfortunate yet by many beloved face, which, as done by Inman, was hanging in a parlor, where two gentlemen were observing it. One was Dickinson, an English painter of taste--   16.   MEMORIES OF A GRANDMOTHER. to whom the excellent tBight Reverend Bishop Chevereux sat, soon to be Archbishop of Bor- deaux-the other, a young physician, after- wards my husband.  "Is she not divine?" said the latter to the artist, who, of course, had never seen the original. "Why," said the eccentric D., with his calm, cold tone, "she is a good well-fed looking girl " I have thus given some little " presentment" of myself, as I once was, in accordance with the suggestion in the first number of Addison's Spectator, that - a reader seldom peruses a book with pleasure, until he knows whether the writer of it be a black or a fair man, of a mild or choleric disposition, married or a bachelor, with other particulars of the like nature, that conduce very much to the right understanding of an author." You will pardon me, as a grandmother, for recurring to the past in the matter of externals, rather than trusting to the impres- sion you might form from the crow's-foot seal that Time may have impressed upon my visage, the locks he has blanched, or the bloom that, he has stolen from the cheeks of the once "well-fed looking girl."   CHAPTER I. "A man severe he was, and stelm to view." UNLIKE the "Topsy " of a late popular work, I certainly was born, and in Massachusetts ; and if there be a pride beyond that of any other, paramount in my bosom, it is that of birth. It was with my paternal grandparents that my early years were spent; and I remember parting with my mother at a tender age, to go and live with them. I can see now a portrait, as it hung in my mother's room, of a handsome young officer, dressed in uniform, who was my father, and of whom I have no remembrance but from this pic- ture. One link, however, - a silver one - yet remains from that broken chain, in the person of Major H., a friend of my father, who was once wounded in an engagement by a ball which shat- tered his foot. As he looked anxiously down upon the then useless member, he asked himself to what extent amputation would deprive him of 2*   18   MEMORIES OF A GRANDMO'THER. the limb, when another shot entered the leg above, and thus the question was settled on the spot. I have never seen Major H. without feeling, as I enjoyed his kind and interesting conversation, that like him might have been the parent I so, early lost. Very bright, indeed, is that picture-remem- brance of my father. The noble brow, the firm- set lips, the finely cut features and broad manly chest, the epaulette and gold-laced collar, all con- spired to leave on memory a picture not to be effaced by time. But he was in the army -it was in the war of 1812 -and a garrison near, and a home subject to orderings abroad, were no places for me; therefore I was sent away to be educated, and, though most kindly treated, to feel the saddest of all childhood's sorrows, that I had no real home. Once and again have I envied that child who could show her gift from her "mother," or her "father," while mine were all from a grand-parent. O, how I longed for the time when I too could speak familiarly those beautiful words, and see that handsome face, which I admired so much ere I left my mother, smile on a little girl like me. I remember feeling real sympathy for this father, from having once   MEMORIES OF A GRANDMOTHER.'   19 heard a passage read in a letter where he stated, that, if the success of the army depended upon the prayers of their chaplain, he should cer- tainly fear the result of an engagement; and my heart pitied this dear unknown father, that he could not hear such prayers as were always offered in our house, morning and evening, and at every meal. I surely was educated in the very atmosphere of prayer. Its breath conse- crated every duty of the house; and well do I remember my looks of devotion, and my longing to be a partaker, when I saw the snow-white damask over the basket of unleavened bread and silver, as it left our house for the church, previous to communion service. Yet I was not happy; I longed for a parent's embrace. Nothing could be more perfect than the system of my life. My grandmother never failed to prepare the frill of her Sabbath-day cap previous to sunset on Saturday. It was done by running a goose-quill through a broad hem, thus leaving it very neatly crimped; and as I learned my Sunday lesson, sitting beside her, I wondered if my mother wore caps. Strange to say, I had for- gotten her face, although I was four years of age when I left her. Mingling with my Sabbath   O    MEMORIES OF A GRANDMOTHER. asson, came to mind often these lines, from erses picked up somewhere--where I never new  but certainly before I went to H  "There was a Presbyterian cat Went forth to seek her prey; 'Twas round the house she chased a mouse, All on the Sabbath day. The Deacon, he laid down his book, And chained her with a chain- 'You saucy puss, how dare you thus This holy day profane!" remember no more, excepting that, on Monday, ass was hung upon a tree, for Sabbath breaking. My venerable grandfather was cold and calm. honored, I had almost said feared, even his  ressing-gown, as I passed it on my way by the eg where it hung. The only change I ever nmember as having occurred, to alter in the )ast the expression of his face, was that occa- oned by the sting of a bee, directly on the end f his nose. I marvelled, as the tears ran down is cheeks, how any insect could have produced- ich emotion where impulse seemed ever to be a ,n. There was one bright spark, however, during y life at H'   which, as it made a deep   MEMORIES OF A GRANDMOTHER.   21 and lasting impression, I should not forget to mention. My father's younger brother, Uncle John, once, during a vacation from Dartmouth, delighted my wandering fancy by a grand dis- play of phosphorus in a dark room. Previous to my departure for a summer in 0   , during my mischief-loving days, I remember taking with me a piece of phosphorus in a small phial, for the purpose of astonishing my friends some night. Lucifer matches were unheard of in those days, although Lucifer himself was regarded by me regularly once a week (Sunday) with the utmost horror. The night of my feu-de-joie had come. With four girls in a room, retired to rest, wide-awake, I felt proud to be able to surprise them by my luminous appearance. I meant to be very brilliant, and, as the evening was tempestu- ous, after the style of Agrippa's demon "in a clap of thunder vanish away." I rubbed the gum hastily, preparatory to illuming my face, when crack, it snapped, arid in an instant my hands were burnt deep' into each palm l  My audience was delighted with my performance, not suspecting the truth; but not so was I, who rushed screaming to my grandmother entreating her immediate aid. Her amazement may well be 22   MEMORIES OF A GRANDMOTHER. imagined, as, tearfully, I held up my burning hands before her; and in a moment, to my unspeakable relief, they were immersed in a pan of milk, and afterward poulticed till morning, when the doctor took them in charge.' I was a most affecting picture of submission, as for weeks with my arms in a sling, crossed on my bosom, I suffered the penalty usually imposed upon all who love fun to excess 1 One of my earliest reminiscences is that of a tall, venerable clock, which stood in a corner of the dining-room, with, a most expressive face, diversified by the various phases of the moon, a truthful tongue and hands pointing unerringly to duty, ornamented by three gilded balls on the top. Into the body of this clock it was my delight to look and-wonder. I had no wish to ask if. there was any bottom to it--feeling then that there could be none; and whether the weights descended below the floor or not, I never knew. All was darkness, as I peeped, again and again, into the shadowy depths of that faithful old clock. It is true, much in Time was indeed dark before me ; and as the weights descended day after day, day after day, it was not for me to fathom the mystery. A sort of fascination   MEMORIES OF A GRANDMOTHER.      23 drew me towards the time-piece.    I was for- bidden to open or touch it, and hence my stolen visits naturally possessed a double charm. Looking down into the silent abyss, I have stood long alone, listening to the clicking above, with- out uttering a sound or moving, till a step near, has warned me that I was " breaking a rule." A faithful monitor is the old family clock! Seldom, if ever, has it been better characterized than in the following verses, which are given from a popular English writer: - "THE OLD COTTAGE CLOCK, "Oh! the old, old Clock, of the household stock, Was the brightest thing and neatest; Its hands, though old, had a touch of gold, And its chime rang still the sweetest. 'Twas a monitor too, though its words were few, -Yet they lived, though nations altered; And its voice, still strong, warned old and young, When the voice of friendship faltered. ' Tick, tick,' it said -'quick, quick, to bed - For ten I've given warning; Up, up, and go, or else, you know, You'll never rise soon in the morning! ' "A friendly voice was that old, old clock, As it stood in the corner smiling, And blessed the time with a merry chime, The wintry hours beguiling;   24    IMEMORIES OF A GRANDMOTilIfi. But a cross old voice was that tiresome clock, As it called at day-break boldly, When the dawn looked gray o'er the misty way, And the early air blew coldly; 'Tick, tick,' it said -' quick, out of bed, For five rye given warning; You'll never have health, you'll never get wealth, Unless you're up soon in the morning.! "Still hourly the sound goes round and round, With a tone that ceases never; While tears are shed for the bright days fled, And the old friends lost forever I Its heart beats on -though hearts are gone That warmer beat and younger;  Its hands still move - though hands we love Are clasped on earth no longer! Tick, tick,' it said-' to the church-yard bed, The grave-hath given warning; Up, up, and rise, and look to the skies, And prepare for a Heavenly morning 1"' \   CHAPTER II. "The tear, down childhood's cheek that flows, Is like the dew-drop on the rose, When next the summer breeze comes by And waves the bush, the flower is dry." ApimiK five years spent in the most correct method of life, striving to graduate everything down to the strict rule of right, stifling within my bosom a constant yearning for the presence of nearer kindred, yet receiving naught but the most judicious and careful training; from my inmost sense honoring  and  revering the relations to whose care I was entrusted, yet wishing very much  that every girl I knew was obliged to prefix the adjective "grand "- to father or mother; after these years of neither joy or sorrow, pleasure or pain, I was called to know  the first grief of my hitherto unvaried life. A  letter, one even- ing, bearing a black  seal -an  earnest but calm look from  my grandparents and aunts, 3   26   MEMORIES OF A GRANDMOTHEK. as they bade good night to me ere opening this missive of death -a call next morning to the side of Aunt Sarah, who asked me if I remembered  my father, with  a solemn assurance that he was dead -- my astonish- ment, my grief, with no answering sob to mine- my unwillingness to relinquish the hope of seeing my father, with a conviction that it was never for me to utter that long coveted sound, although there be few lips that have called oftener or more fervently upon "Our Father "-this I remember to have been a prostration of the first image I had formed for life's enjoyment. From it Sprang a doubly strong desire to see my widowed mother.  I knew  she was poor, and left with three little ones beside myself; but she was a real mother, and my pride was, longing to display to my young friends this "pearl of great price." Father, I now had none, - Grandfathers, I had two, -and  a Mother yet was mine! One change often follows close upon another. Soon after the news of my father's death, there stopped at the door a  travelling chaise, from which a lady alighted in deep   MEMORIES OF A GRANDMOTHER.   27 mourning, wearing a widow's veil, and holding in her arms a little boy. - And this was the mother--nmy mother - forgotten, yet remembered - and she had come to take me to another home, with my maternal rela- tives, of whom I knew  nothing, but with whom I was to remain. My mother was sad, pale, and very fair. I did not spring to her embrace as that of one longed for and beloved- for, as I have said, my life for five years- those years like wax for the impressions of childhood--had been so systematized, so wholly unlike that of other children, that I was altogether an anomaly among my kind. With the deepest and rich-. est affections, constantly welling up to the surface; and as constantly carefully covered and repressed, there was formed, as it were, a crust over the top of my heart, not instantly melted away. I found that this mother, of whose name I had so much thought, was indeed a dear and true one; but not such as she would have been to me had we never been separated. Together, the parent and child grow as one; apart, there is no counteracting the influences brought   28   MEMORIES OF A GRANDMOTHER. between.  A sense of duty  remains  an affection- but no such tender love as is created anew every day by the breath of home. My little brother was a pretty boy, with white arms, and a great curiosity to me, be- cause he acted just as he had a mind.  For iAstance, on retiring, I bent to kiss him; and, whether he mistook my cheek for a red apple, or not, I never knew, but he bit it most voraciously. Never was I so tempted to tell a fib, as, when questioned by Aunt Sarah, next morning, respecting the scar upon my rosy face,I was obliged to show up the culprit - who didft't in the least care for her own private or expressed opinion that he was a spoiled child 1 And now I was to journey at once, and where? I was to go to my maternal grand- parents. I often wondered if there ever was a girl before who had such a lot of grand- parents; for, in addition to the four, I had a great-grandfather living who drank his cider from a massy silver tankard, and wore real silver buttons, the size of a quarter of a dollar, on his coat the only property about him that I clearly remember. -*            A    A* *   MEMORIES OF A GRANDMOTHER.   29 The parting with my relatives in H-- was not a sad one.   I had ever been a restless child, and they must have relinquished me without reluctance; while I found my young heart bounding with a joyous feeling of freedom, as we set forth.  After a second day in stages, we took a one-horse carriage at a town twelve miles from  0-   , and then, for me, began the luxury to live. What a happy soul I was on that day I with the fragrance of the earth -the sea  the pines -the music of those pines--the summer sun  the sleepy drive through the heavy yellow sand;  my, mother on one side, and my little brother on the other. So we rode along, and my mother told me of her sorrows as we went.  The night on which my\ father died, she had retired, to think of him in a distant land. She slept; a voice'- his voice -called  Mercy!"  " doming " was her reply; and she sprang, in her night dress, down the stairs to the door.  No one was there I One week after, news reached her of his death on that very night when she had sped at the call of "Mercy!" 3* '           .   ,  -    CHAPTER      III. "In his soften'd looks benignly blend The sire, the son, the husband, father, friend:-- Here woman reigns; the mother, daughter, wife, Strews with fresh flowers the narrow way of life." MY poor bereaved mother was yet young, with four children, and left, as an officer's widow must be, almost portionless. How I pitied her sorrow -yet how mistaken she seemed to me in her grief- for life was very beautiful. There was her father, a rich man, with a house full, she being one in a family of twelve daughters and one son, and we were going to live there also - how could she feel so discouraged I Her dear parents had given her a welcome-and, because she wished to be united to' her long absent one, I too was added to join the many there. And such a cheerful group I My beloved grandmother -I can see her now, though years ago I planted cypress on her grave. She was one of " the old school," but of strictest delicacy and refinement. -      t q3   MEMORIES OF A GRANDMOTHER.    31 There she sits, in the eye of memory, as of yore -busily directing and ordering her servants by day, always at evening in the same chair, by the same door, knitting without ceasing. How freely she gave to the poor! How kind, how indulgent, was this parent to me, when left to her care by my mother, who decided on living at some distance from O---  , for the benefit of her boys. And my grandfather I full of the impulses of charity, love and piety--who was ever like him in this world?  Not until long after grief had thrown her black mantle over me, did these parents leave us. O, no I Abiding with them through many a year in the joyousness of girlhood, to them I turned stricken with sorrow and desolation, and by them was I comforted. How firm was my faith in those prayers I Gathered in with that beautiful group of sisters at night, how my heart hushed itself in holy trust on my knees before the family altar I In childhood I was deeply impressed with a sense of reverence for the Bible, and for much, indeed, of its very phraseology. It was quite a superstitious reverence. Nothing could have induced me to use such words as eternity; and forever and ever were even more formidable.   32   MEMORIES OF A GRANDMOtH1'JI.. The Bible was a strange book to me--full of power, of charms--yet a volume with which my heart had nothing to do.  It belonged to the soul - and  that I considered  my immortal part, entirely separate from the heart, of which I gave very freely a piece to all. During a thunder storm  I wished always to be near a Bible--to have a hand on it; but I did not open it with any desire to gain wisdom from its pages. The form of early days, however, probably induced the feeling afterwards, which was of an oppo. site extreme; as once, in a -letter from my son, he wrote this:-- Your history, dearest mother, of Joseph and his brethren was beau- tiful; and I wanted to show it to a gentle- man, but did not.  Please, when you write, put your requests on a page by themselves - as in that letter, just after Benjamin was kept back, you desired me to keep my nails trimmed close, in order to save holes in my stockings!" Among my friends in 0--   , it was a settled thing that I was a poet malgre my brother's opinion to the contrary, who advised me by all means to "write for a weakly   MEMORIES OF A GRANDMOTHER.    33 paper." My own attempts at versification, about that time, I forget.  The first effort of my little sister I well remember - and am a witness to the lovely and religious char- acter of her poetry in after years. We were trying at impromptus, at the time referred to -and her's revealed a secret quite embar- rassing, and wholly unsuspected. The childish effusion thus run: "A man named Thacher Loves my aunt; And tries to catch her, But he can't. She don't like him- He loves her; Her name is Julia, His Oliver!" Of my peculiar fancies, I cannot recall the time when agreeable odors, faint and sweet, but not strong, and the sight of pure white linen and white wax  candles, were  not delightful to me. From childhood, cleanliness and order have been essential to my com- fort. Poverty were competency with them, compared to wealth without.  Of my ambi- tions, I had bjt one, paramount in my bosom to every other feeling,- it was to be beloved. *           z    34   MEMORIES OF A GRANDMOTi'BE. Among old or young, male or female, I must be loved to be happy.  Without once realizing my own insufficiency towards exciting regard, and loving my friends with all the ardor of a warm heart, I often wondered at the cold returh of some; while, for the affection I did meet, I returned a four-fold measure. I was not a little superstitious, as a girl-- and often, as I saw the moon over my right shoulder, my first wish was to be beloved; and, at the shooting of a meteor along an evening sky, while other girls were crying out "money, money!" with full faith in the "star of destiny," I was silently wishing that such and such an one might love me.-  This sensitiveness I should never desire for a child, as I suffered much from its acuteness. I say suffered, because there was great discomfort in a failure, and failures of course there were; though I was usually successful in gaining friends. It was charming to me to be able to render others cheerful, amused and happy. I say it without 'vanity. It was true and, natural, requiring no  sacrifice, and therefore not meritorious. If an old person patted my head in commendation, or my merriment caused   MEMORIES OF A GRANDMOTHER.   35 the eyes of a child to sparkle, I was happy. There was mesmerism  in the touch of the feeble hand; while it made me proud, it rendered me happy; and the laughter of children always met an echo from my heart. From the time I stepped over the threshold of that happy home, I no more lacked any- thing. That low house, with its small win- dows, its steep, narrow stairs; its roof spread out to the sun, as it should be- for there was corresponding sunlight below- that house was a palace--for "the, Prince of Peace was there." Ah, well! I have joined in scenes of frivolity and idleness. I have rebelled against the hand that chastened. I have despaired in darkest, wildest want of confidence in my Heavenly Father. I have been made to know his power, to kiss the- rod, and bless his holy name. But, in those days,' it seems to me I saw Him visibly, " face to face;-" and felt the breath of the Almighty on my brow, as if borne there by an angel, who had one wing on earth and the other at' the foot of the Throne on high.  Whatever might have been my frolics by day, my corrections in   36   MEMORIES OF A GRANDMOTH'R. school, my short-comings in duty, my ungra- cious manners towards an offended etmpanion, my  prickings of conscience--for by these only was I reminded of my sins, my grand- mother never having "scolded" me in her life -all these were brought by me to this one "footstool of humility,' at the ]lour of evening prayer; and I rose, feeling sure I was forgiven, by such- tan intercession, from such a true servant of God as knelt beside me there.   CHAPTER       IV. Like the rich, generous vine, We each supported live; The strength we gain, in weal orwoe, is from the embrace we give." "'Tis sport, to see the engineer Hoist with his own petard!" FROM  the happy flock  at  ---  there were two lambs early gathered into the fold of the Good Shepherd - but ten were yet left to be sisters to one brother.  I well oremema. ber his love for all manly sports, his freeness from, such effeminacy ase goes to lessen the dignity of man; and yet with what patience, interest and skill 'he would construct a doll's bedstead for his sisters, or a harp for me I Uncle Frank  was a pet brother among my aunts. During his vacations from College -he was especiall  y the joyof the whole house- hold. Uncle Frank I His declamations - his poems --his dancing--his: gunning   d trout- 4   38   MEMORIES OF A GRANDMOTHERi. ing - were all on a scale entirely his own. Born into the world with joints gracefully yielding to each other, and to external obsta- cles, he was never in the way of anything, nor was anything ever in his way. His coming home was hailed asan advent of pleasure by all; and well do I remember the day when I took   my first lesson in shooting from him. A wafer in the centre of a sheet of paper was the mark.  It was fastened on a slab of the fence in a lane leading to the house -the number of paces not recorded at the time, but the sensation deeply registered. I took my position as directed, and the gun was placed against my shoulder. My uncle counted "' one two - three 1  " I shut my eyes convulsively, expecting to be shot myself, yet wishing to learn the art and off went the gun. How near I came to the mark, or how many shot were sent through the paper, I can't say. But I know  it was a; very exciting sport, and as often repeated as cir- cumstances would admit - being always done, I am obliged to confess, without the knowl- edge of my careful grandparents. My eldest aunt, rightly named Temperance,   MEMORIES OF A GRANDMOTHER.   39 was, to her husband and interesting family, a living example of that virtue. Loved and honored by all, in the home of her wedded happiness she lived and died. Next. to her came my mother, whose lot was far different. Change and vicissitude marked her path with an uneven surface, from marriage unto death. The third sister was Abigail, whose fine spirits provoked the rhyme of the village bard; and next were Persis and Penelope, the pale and quiet one, with Christina, Henrietta and Adeline. My younger aunts, Julia and Martha, with myself, made a trio, not to be overpow- ered by numbers; and it was our bounden duty to find out and relate to each other all the love-secrets' we could possibly learn from the older ones, either through the narrow space behind an open door, behind the cur- tains, or at the key-hole; which stratagems we never disdained (as we should have done) believing them to be necessary to our future well-being. Of my handsome Aunt Persis, I once heard my grandmother say, that the first substan- tially expressed wish of her childhood was for "a gold  gown and silver petticoat;" A   40   MEMORIES OF A GRANDMOTHEI4. which wish appeared no more remarkable to me than that of my Aunt Adeline, who said she should like to marry a rich man, who would take her to Niagara, and  that she should certainly name her first daughter for Madame De Stael's "Corinne;" all of which in due time came to pass; but in respect to the gold and silver garments, I cannot remem- ber ever having seen them. My youngest aunt was a pretty, blue-eyed, pale, little thing, just my age; and it was not strange grandma' said, that I seemed near to her,- for she fed my infancy from the same breast with her own child. When my older aunts reproved me, she always had one ex- cuse;- it was a most expansive mantle, and served for all occasions: -"he is growing," or "she will. outgrow it all," was the answer to sundry requests that a stop should be put to my nonsense. As several of the senior members of the family had become sober matrons, the younger portion were ready to join me in every frolic my fancy might suggest.  The drama was particularly charming in my eyes, and none the less effective from the absence of all male   MEMORIES OF A GRANDMOTHER.   41 performers - we being always provided with a hat, a long-waisted surtout, and a rusty baggernet, as it was called, that hung over the door of the middle room, resting upon deer's horns ; having served its time, with the gun to which it was attached, under King George-whose subject my honored grandsire had once been. There was stopping for a time, in my grand- father's family, a party of ladies and gentle- men, before whom I took especial delight in leading theatrical performances, ever after I heard a pleasant Quakeress-a Mrs. Peter E --  , say to me, "Shakspeare was noth- ing compared to thee "  I believed all she said; and, on the strength of it composed a play wherein I entered as a love-lorn damsel, performing on the flageolet l On one occasion, in order to fill up a blank, we rehearsed "Alexander and the Rob- ber." Aunt Adeline was the King, I the Thracian, with my wrists enclosed in the iron fetters of a horse ambitious in leaping fences, and conducted in by Julia 4s the sentinel, who wore the hat, the long-waisted surtout, and rusty " baggernet." Aunt Ade was " every 4.   42   MEMORIES OF A GRANDMOTHinH. inch a king ;" as she assured us if she had ' subverted empires," she had "founded greater;" and I was in feeling  a perfect Diogenes, as I smartly replied that I was "a Thracian and a soldier; " giving at the same time a- clank with my chains -chains that had been jingling all day over the green, grassy fields. In the house of"Uncle Nealus," (Cornelius), a frequent resort, there was no such thing allowed as dancing. Strange though it was, I often played the flute for hours, that others might dance; and- in the absence of, "Uncle and Aunt Nealus," a party of us were always most happy :to spend the evening there, with full permission to play round plays -but cross- wise, regular dancing, belonging to the wicked ways of the very wicked one himself, we were forbidde. to enter -upon. Once assured of the ;departure of the worthy pair -dis- obedient: children that we were  how soon we were off in a country dance or cotillion! while. the girl, who was looking out. gave us due notice of the return; on which we directly fellinto aa ring,- to the somng of the ' Goose- berry bush"Or, "4SO the farmer sows his seed."   MEMORIES OF A GRANDMOTbHEM.   43 Being naturally an excellent mimic, my presence gave mirthfulness to many a scene. I often crept out of bed, went to the foot of the stairs leading to the sleeping apartments of my aunts, who were very prone to reading late o' nights, and, imitating the tone of my grandmother, said: "Blow  out your lights, this minute " then  stole laughingly back again, as I instantly heard the obedient puffl My passion for mimicry led me into a variety of frolics. I once told the fortune of an intimate friend, who did not discover the trick till after she; had paid the fee ; and as I was peculiarly successful: in personating a squaw, living near an Indian :plantation, this was my chefd'ouvre of mischief. Burnt cork for my face, with an almost ventriloquial power of changing my voice, gave me all I required. One night I sallied forth to surprise a party of girls, who had received my regrets that an engagement prevented my joining them till quite late. What a perfect Bush- Kasko I was, to 'the very teeth. The moon was as full of fun and caprice as I was, that night; sometimes laughing out and pushing- big cloud behind her, and sometimes coquettishy hiding   "   MEMORIES OF A GRANDMOTHEfRI. away, to burst forth brighter than ever, She and I exchanged courtesies, one as good as the other, only I preferred my game to hers. I had a bundle of mats and baskets, for the girls, in my arms, and was gliding along towards the house of my victims, when lo! behind me, "distinct in ,outward form,' there -followed an Indian direct in my wake! Yes, indeed! and just then the, man in the moon seemed to give "a broad grin," as a cloud floated before and left- us in partial darkness. O how I ran - how I panted! then I could hear him run also. The pursuit was a close one  and, what was " the terrible horrible " to me, he was drunk I In his reelings, how- ever, he gained upon me; for, like the hunted ostrich, I went from side to side, while he met me at every turn, with out-stretched arms, and a hiccuping laugh, that made my very hat rise, as it were, from my bristling hair. Fright, however, gave me speed, and I man- aged to escape his grasp, by stooping as he spread those horrid hands to seize me, and Athus start afresh. So we went on, till, breath- less and half-dead, I fell upon the door-step of the house where I was expected, (but not    MEMORIES OF A GRANDMOTHER.    45 in that guise,) and he, the Indian, fell directly over me I Prostrate we lay, to the dismay of " all concerned "- when, after being lifted to, my feet, and confronted by my pursuer to answer for my sin, I saw  myself " the biter bit," as the disguised face of Betsy L- met my astonished gaze!   CHAPTER V. "Various; That the mind of desultory man, Studious of change and pleased with novelty, May be indulged." "We, proudly conscious of a purer age, Forgive some fopperies in the times of old." EVERY village has its originals: men or women who strike out for themselves an eccentric path in life, or -who are diverted from the common course by   some , obliquity of mind- or heart.   This obliquity may be either a fault or a misfortune, sometimes per- haps a  mixture of both.   Connected  with the various characters which compose even a small community, will always be found some incidents that impress themselves deeply on the youthful mind.  They  may not be of much significance. distinctively, or of them- selves; but they go to make up the aggre- gate of neighborhood character, and serve, in   MEMORIES OF A GRANDMOTHER.    47 the relation, to diversify the often monotonous details of village history. Some of the per- sons, and some of the incidents, which will be seen grouped together in the present chap- ter, are of this class. On a hill, quite near our place, there lived an aristocratic personage descended from the lords of England; and so proud was he, that the village burying-ground was not deemed worthy the remains of any portion of his family, At the foot of a lane leading to his house, in a neat enclosure shaded by willows, were laid severally- his wife and children. He had said, as was understood, that they could not mingle with common dust; and this fact impressed me with uncommon awe as I passed the spot. I remember he was a stern old man, and that he never seemed as glad to see me as were most persons in O----  ; and, after he was gathered to his fathers and placed there, I always ran breath- lessly by the enclosure where people said his ghost had walked.  Years after, when the house was in ruins and the property sold, I chanced to pass the spot. A man war there with a coarse box, into which he was throw-r   48   MEMORIES OF. A GRANDMOJH$kR.  . ing what I thought were pebbles; but, on inquiry, I found he was gathering together- all the bones he could find, to send away to a brother of the deceased.  It seems that, prior to this, the old gentleman had been disinterred, and buried with some of his kindred in an adjoining town, and it was discovered that a favorite willow tree had taken root in his heart. I could never see anything particularly striking in this, unless' the moral designed to be conveyed was, that pride must have a bend. To me the \wonder was, how the man with the cart dared to handle these little bones so--just as if they  were marbles tossed in a game. Dr. Holmes, the village dentist, was a kind, man, with a good. heart-the strength of which passed mainly into his knees; for no ether of modern times could have effected such utter annihilation of soul and body as did the iron tenure of these same joints. As I passed into his room, I entered a Paradise of rest; because the tooth ceased to ache the moment the instruments of torture were drawn forth. These came from a pigeon-hole i .the desk, where bhe kept his tobacco, iron   MEMORIES OF A GRANDMOTHER.    49 spectacle-case, bills of lading for mackerel, &c.; having also a set of shark's teeth, that looked particularly white, causing me to wonder if they ever ached. Appalling, indeed, was the sight. Judging' from the first sensation, one of his instruments seemed very like a small wheel running along the jaw, to upset in my. brain; and my distinct memory records a mingled odor of fish and tobacco, as a blood- red handkerchief was wound around a handle to something designed for an awful execution somewhere.  The artist seated himself in a chair, requesting me to " take the floor" with my back to him, placing my head on his lap. Picture to yourself, gentle reader, the "divine" original of the portrait in this position; and then, if you have seen plates representing Chinese torture, or the gymnastics of the Japanese, you will discover a striking resem- blance. Chloroform in this day is humbug compared to the effect of that hold upon my head by his iron knees.  It was the knee- plus-ultra of capital punishment. The philosophy of this performance was to the effect that the crushing in of the temples overpowered the sensation of the crushing out of the tooth. 6   50   MEMORIES OF A GRANDMOTHERI  The choir of the village church in  - contained a very singular member in the per- son of the sexton. I have looked long and earnestly upon him, watching the motions of his lips, as, with the privilege of the country, we gracelessly' turned from the preacher to gaze into the gallery. He was a man of mystery, whom no one ever sought to disturb; a solemn man, and in good standing with the church. By him the bell was tolled, and as we saw him tugging at the rope, we saw also that he felt the importance of his exer- tions. His hands went upward, but his eyes were cast down, as if, for awhile, the inward man had gone outward upon the wave of sound, calling in the idle and wandering to the house of prayer.' At the ladies' fair for procuring funds in order to purchase blinds for the church, while some wicked ones said it was best to have all the light possible upon that creed, and others thought it wrong to blind any church, he made successful efforts in its behalf, was a leading marshal on the day of sale, and in his quiet way accomplished much.  The great mystery concerning him was that no   MEMORIES OF AM GRANDMOTH'ix.  51 one, not those nearest him during service, ever heard a sound from his lips ; while he kept time with his hand, and gave the shape to every word  of the  hymn I  He was not dumb-- he  could converse ; he held  his place in the choir, possibly, among the pro- foundest depths of bass, yet no one ever heard him sing. Across a bay making   up from  the sea, not far from the old homestead, was a small islet, called "Hannah Screecher's Island ;" where were heard dreadful screams during the moon-lit nights of summer.  It was said that her ghost guarded a buried treasure; that her throat was cut from ear to ear, yet that her cries were loud and- distinct. I have felt the blood cease its circulation as those sounds pierced my  sense-whether goblin, owl, or Hannah; but to doubt was not my inclination. Nothing gave me more pleasure than to believe in the spirit there ; and also in the story told me by a man, who, with others, was once digging for the chest of gold  under an injunction of silence, accord- ing to the warning in a dream.   Just as it made its appearance, one of the party, over- 52   MEMORIES OF A' GRANDMOTHER. joyed at the sight spoke, and, presto! it was gone. One of my aunts often rowed me over  to the island in summer time, to gather berries  and plums during the day; but after sun- set no one molested the shade of Hannah Screecher.  At the foot of a long lane, lined on either side by straight, sentinel-looking poplars, lead- ing to the paternal mansion, lived a very old woman, whose name was SAunt Lizzie Roe. In better days, I believe, she was Miss Elizabeth Munroe. Her engrossing passion was for pins; like crazy Kate, "to hoard them  in her sleeve." I often think of her regular salu- tation as I met her  -"You're a pretty gal -your cheeks are red as roses-your eyes are black as coals - can't you give me a pin?  I have had many at compliment since, apparently as well grounded in sin- cerity; but have frequently wondered to myself whether, while lacking the honesty of Aunt Lizzy in confessing their' motives, the real object of my  flatterers was not somewhat identical with hers. In an unfinished house, surrounded by sweet-breathing Balm of Gilead trees, lived an   MEMORIES OF A GRANDMOTHiiK.   53 old couple -"Aunt Molly," and   "Uncle Zack."  She was a pale, kind woman, who, when the days were mild, sat in her door- way knitting, for " a thin livelihood," in the sun. He was a terrific creature, with red eyes and profane lips; a drunkard, and a monster of cruelty towards his unoffending wife. It had long been suspected that good Aunt Molly was suffering from some infliction- beyond the habitual intemperance  of her brutal husband, and  a party of us girls resolved to relieve her to the extent of our means. Uncle Zack was a carpenter by trade, and it seemed he had resorted to a most novel method by which to torment his wife. He had made her a rude board coffn; and every night, for a week, he had taken it up through a trap-door from the cellar beneath their room, and placed it endwise at the foot of her' bed, telling her it would soon contain her form! At daylight it descended, to rise again a spectre for poor Aunt Molly's eyes at night. She bore it long in silence ; but at last we agreed upon a plan to rid her of this cruelty. Their only son returned to them from sea, sick of a fever.  While he 5'   54   MEMORIES OF A GRANDMOTHER. lay there, on his dying bed, the old man was stupefied with grief, and the coffin remained undisturbed. Aunt Molly gave us the key to an outer door of the cellar, opening into the garden; and one bright evening we sallied forth, ten in number, our purpose being nothing short of house-breaking, and stealing a coffin  Well do I remember that night.  It was  as bright as a cloudless sky, all silvery with the moon, could make it. It seems now, as I look back to those days passed in O  , that there must have been fewer dark and more moonlight evenings than ever since. Twice a month, it seems to me, we must have had a crescent to the full orb. But this night how lovely it was! The Balm of Gileads were so fragrant, and our scheme so wildly exciting- yet to be accomplished with the utmost silence and despatch. It was summer, and we had been in, during the day, to take our turns in fanning poor Allan, and brushing away the flies from his unconscious form. I was appointed to a post there, while the outer door was being opened, and to give the alarm if Uncle Zack should suspect. The key was taken from the nail   MEMORIES OF A GRANDMO)I'Hfi.  55 by Aunt Molly, conveyed by me to the girls, and my station resumed at the bedside, with- out any danger. The wicked old man, sub- dued by this unexpected blow, sat on one side .of his .dying son, waving now and then a bough from a tree, entirely absorbed in his great sorrow. The work below went on; and soon the 'coffin was, borne forth, the cellar re-locked, the key in its accustomed place, and the procession on its, way to a swamp in the rear of my grandfather's house, where a man in waiting with an axe shivered it in pieces. Thus Aunt Molly was relieved of one wanton trial, while another visitation awaited her from a different hand - for during that night poor Allan died; and her husband was never afterwards known to allude to the coffin, believing, I suppose, that some super- natural power had disposed of it in connec- tion with the death of his' lamented son.   CHAPTER VI. "How most sweet it is To have one lovely treasure, which the heart Can feed upon in secret--which can be A star in sorrow, and a flower in joy." AND now  came the time when my teens required a finish to my plain education, and away over the water I went to a city school. Many and sad were my tears at this change, and the parting with my  second mother whom I so tenderly loved. It may have been that, with no immediate cause for sorrow, with her perfect health and abundant means, my grand- mother was able and willing to indulge me to the extent of Imy desires, and that my delightful home there rendered a residence with my  mother rather a  change to  be dreaded.  Certain it is, that while my outer self went to B-   , my heart, for a long, long time, remained at 0-----. It seemed that while I was sitting over   MEMORIES OF A GRANDMOTHER.    57 my studies in school, stitching at my embroid- ery, or assisting my mother at home, this wayward heart was at its old place by the social fire, or by the side of Sam Crosby's pond, sending forth calls for an hundred echoes. The vision was sometimes with hair streaming on the wind, rushing- like a storm- spirit from  hill to hill; again, high in- the branches of a splendid family tree just at the "side door" there, looking down in glee at the unconscious ones below; --then off to the mill, my young aunt Julia on a pillion behind, with the plough-horse for our steed; or, dressed in bonnet,. cap and spectacles, startling, my aunts by ,suddenly appearing before them as a stranger seeking lodgings. I was oftener pouring out the   treasured ballads of childhood in song, than storing up a necessary knowledge for the future; but always ending my wild career by being, in fancy, one in the 'nightly group around the familiar table where  an   open Bible reposed.- A city life had few or no attractions for me. Too long accustomed to the nightingale herself, I could -not bear to hear an imitation of   i8   MEMORIES OF A GRANDMOTHER. ier song. The JEolian harp made by uncle ?rank to swing in the trees of our grove n dear 0---  , and swept by the winds Ls they tuned-it to various keys of Nature's' tarmony, was sweeter far to me than -the ractised airs I now   must hear. Months, towever, passed on, and in my seventeenth rear I was engaged to a beloved one - who sas to wait till a suitable time for the union !f two so young and inexperienced. From an excellent family-with a liberal wrofession --of anI elegant and polished exte- ior-with education, refinement and affection -there was but one small spot upon my un of hope- of happiness; and that was, Ln uncertainty expressed by my mother especting our future, which to us was rose- :olored, but to Iher shaded by mny hues. ihe wished us to wait for a competency, md for some experience in life, ere we ,ssumed the responsibilities of the married tate. We were unwilling to reason, in such t case of clear conviction, where all who opposed were wrong; and it ended in lecided opposition on the part of my mother, tnd an appeal from  me by letter to my   MEMORIES OF A GRANDMOTHER.    59 grandmother, to know if-after being engaged for one year with the sanction of my mother -I might not go to her and be married there. To this I received her consent in full, as she approved of early marriages- having been herself the happy mother of four girls before she was twenty years of age I So I packed all my wardrobe in a trunk, and announced to my mother the startling fact of my intended departure for O    -- by stage -for which place my lover was to follow, after the necessary time ,for "publish- ment" was out.   I  marvel now   at my daring; but   I was very  selfish, and  my grandmother justified the step. I  did not leave my mother alone-   for my sister was with her, and I felt I was - half -right; yet there was a feeling of unrest-of anxiety -lest I   was half wrong. Unblest in the undertaking, however, I  started on my day's journey alone. I had in my  pocket ten dollars-a gift from  a friend, and all the money I possessed in the world -- and a little screw-cushion, with a  mysterious box in the centre, which'  60   MEMORIES OF A GRANDMOTHER. no one could suspect. was hollow, and a bottle of lavender water. At the "half-way house" the passengers were called upon to "settle." For the better security of my precious ten, I had screwed it up in my mysterious box; and on striving to open it, I found that the lavender water had been moistening the wood to such a degree as to cause a most unfortunate expansion.   On giving it to a fellow passenger, she declared as she handed it to a man near her, that, if there was a box there, she was sure she couldn't open it; to which, after various grimaces and twists, the man replied, "There an't no box there, no how"   I took my little misused curiosity, assuring them it was of no  consequence, and passed into the kitchen, where the family, with the driver, were sitting. I felt as guilty of fraud as if I had meant to perpetrate it, for the suspicions in the parlor had wounded me deeply; so, trembling like an imposter, my face flushing and paling by turns, I desired the driver to try 'to unscrew the pedestal to the -cushion that contained all my money. He tugged and tugged in vain--and then   MEMORIES OF A GRANDMOTHER.,   61 he looked at me. O, what a moment!  An old lady, darning stockings, looked up from her work also, over her spectacles-and to this day I always feel like falling whenever I meet a look above the spectacles! The burly driver looked at my hat.  It was a gray  hat, very pretty and very becoming, and it covered an  honest face. He looked at my habit.   It was a gray habit, and the belt bound over a heart that hated deception in every shape, and that for the first time was stung by suspicion. He looked at my feet, my hands, and then at the little box. He was about to speak, when I begged of him, with tears of vexa- tion and mortification, to get the axe and break it. -With an incredulous sneer he went out to the wood-pile, where the assem- bled spectators followed, to be present at the decapitation; and with such a blow as a wood-cutter might give an oak, the slender instrument was separated  and there lay the soft and quiet cause of all their doubt, and of my distress, safe as at first deposited! 6   CHAPTER. VII. "One may have many friends - many collateral kindred - many endeared by ties of consanguinity and affection;--none can ever have but one Mother." "Away, away, o'er land and sea- This is now no home for me; My companions fly with spring, I, too, must be on the wing. "O! for some sweet Southern clime, Where 'tis ever summer time; Where, if blossoms fall, their tomb Is amid new birth of bloom." Now, as I recline my head, I     rest upon a "tidy"   wrought by   the  hands  of  my mother- those   hands  mingling  in dust  at Mount Auburn-    and I marvel at myself, as I look  back  at this step of my   life. It needs but one death to convince us of a truth.  What would I not give to be able to atone  to my  mother for all the pain I caused her by my waywardness and      indiffer- ence!  But I felt that my grandmother had   MEMORIES OF A GRANDMOTHER.   63 an equal right to judge for me, in the case referred to; and, while my conscience smote me sorely, I yielded to the appeals of a most devoted lover, and in the dear, little, old-fashioned parlor, under the low ceiling, I became a proud and cherished wife, while yet in my " teens." It was in that village the first practice of my husband began.  It ended with his life in a foreign land. Much pleased was I when "Aunt Becky" T---  fell ill, and sent for F - ; not, surely, because she was ill-but because she chose to employ such  an excellent young Doctor. I admired her wisdom.  Then, all the babies were vaccinated, and various little sicknesses occurred around O  , just enough to enable him to "get his hand in," prior to our going East, where we were soon very agreeably settled, after being forgiven by my mother for my disobedience.  And then all was unclouded happiness. I was young, and as fond of gaiety as ever. I rode on horse- back with the girls, played a solo on the flute, behind the long curtain and beside the big organ, one evening, at a sacred concert   "   MEMORIES OF A GRANDMOT1'HiR. with the full choir; and spent an afternoon, now and then, with the old folks, discussing the respective merits of penny-royal, spear- mint and catnip tea for infants. Once, on "rummaging" the coat-pockets of my husband in pursuit of confectionery, after he had retired, I found, to my dismay, "confirmation strong" of his skill in surgery, by unrolling two amputated thumbs; said members having been lost in one day, by two persons occu- pied successively in directing a lathe, in order to -test the power of a   newly  invented circular saw l In little more than one year -after a few hours of distress, during which the cry of "mother" passed my lips, as if the name possessed a spell to ease - an important looking -woman, with a pleasant face, placed in my arms a tiny creature, which she said was my own little bo I1 This child of our youth was of surpassing loveliness, and daily grew in beauty. My other children, in after years, were fair to me- but this " exceeded them all." It could -not have been because he was the first-born, that  he seemed so lovely.  It was the classic , r   MEMORIES OF A GRANIDMOTHER.,   65 face and noble style, independent of mind; the faultless shape and exquisite grace of motion. It was the aristocratic expression, combined. with delicacy and refinement of thought-the love" of order-the charm in every movement, so wholly  his own-the natural dislike of anything impure or dis- -orderly, with a reverence for the good and true-that then, and since, marked him as one who would  be  distinguished in any assembly, as' an interesting being, of no, ordinary nature. This  child -our  first-born - inherited his father's beauty, and was destined by adverse circumstances in our future years, to attract and charm others in a distant land; far from the surviving parent, who doated with so much pride and fondness upon the opening flower, but was doomed to know only of its fragrance and fullness through such sources as distance yields, by letter and report. With  all our sanguine youth --for of economy we knew nothing -and with our best management, we found that the practice of a new physician failed to meet expenses. My husband  could not live by way  of 6*   "   MEMORIES OF A GRANDMOTHER. "barter;"  else he might have been success- ful. He loved- his profession ardently-but he hated  to present a bill I  It. seemed to him so uncourteous, after being consulted in confidence, to charge for it. So, by the time the principal of the property left by his father was gone, it became indispensable for our interest that we should seek, in " other climes," that competency so slow in meeting us in our native land. To the 'West Indies, then, we turned our eyes--not despairingly, nor anxiously, but strong in hope and trust.   CHAPTER         VIII. "Look sea-Ward thence, and naught shall meet thine eye But fairy isles, like paintings on the sky; And flying fast and free before the gale, The gaudy vessel with its glancing sail; And waters glittering in the glare of noon, Or touch'd with silver by the stars and moon. Lovely as lov'd! towards that smiling shore Bear we our household gods, to fix forevermore. It looks a dimple on the face of earth, The seal of beauty and the shrine of mirth; Nature is delicate and graceful there, The place's genius, feminine and fair; The winds are awed, nor dare to breathe aloud; The air seems never to have borne a cloud. Thrice beautiful! to that delightful spot Carry our married hearts, and be all pain forgot." BRIGHTLY shone the day as we went on board  the  packet  bound  for the   fairy  land of the orange, the citron, and     the lime.    We cared  not  for a   tropical sun;  we   thought of   the  cool  banana, and   the  milk of the cocoa-nut,  and   the  branching   palm.  Our letters would   ensure us friends-     our spirits, happiness.    What if-we were   strangers I our   68   MEMORIES OF A GRANDMOTHER. own circle was, three. While only two, we had loved each other with fond idolatry, and the first-born created a new centre for our affection. He  clung to me as we descended the steps to the water, and begged me not to " go down there;" but I bade him look at his pretty little red pru- nella boots, and not cry; and he did so, till the dancing boat delighted his baby fancy, and he found that in his mother's arms he was secure.  Our passage was a pleasant :one-though sea-sickness below, and languor abo've, kept my spirits down. I remarked that the only ill-natured, grumbling person among the crew came' from my native. town --the others being foreigners; and he, the first mate, was often complaining, just within my  hearing, of " the -iconvenience of them ere yearnings put up for women par- sengers I!  Our passage soon made, how  amused I was, on our landing, to see a negro start off with a great trunk on his head, that had required the strength of four hands to place there. What muscles to the  neck I and then the peculiar, constant, balancing motion   MEMORIES OF A GRANDMOTHER.    69 of the handsl I How new -was all I saw! Such beautiful shells - the aurora - the rose- leaf and sea-car --as common as the clams upon our beach at 0 We found our lodgings in a long, low house, full of little rooms, with a gallery on all sides; the owner and hostess of which was a Danish Creole, of about fifty years. She was very tall and thin, with a sallow face, long arms, and skinny hands; in- which she often  carried a cowhide, with a handsome headed handle, and a most "persuasive" lash. Whether the cuts therefrom   were less sharp 'on this account, I am greatly inclined to doubt; having too often seen Cecilia's bare shoulders, with patches here and  there of sticking-plaster above the " poor, dumb mouths." It is true that this slave was untidy, treach- erous and thievish--but she got summary punishment for all. The thing  that first fixed my notice on entering the house, was a white baby sleep- ing on a leopard skin, spread upon the floor, under a   muslin screen protecting it from insects. Mistress K--, seeing   my earnest look, gave me, on a very short acquaintance,   70   MEMORIES OF A GRANDMOTHER. the history of the little sleeper, which was strangely mingled with her own.   I was glad that my husband was occupied, at the time, in looking at our rooms, with the servant who attended him.  Mistress K  , from her own confession, had indulged recently, at- this advanced stage of her widowhood, a little in " la belle passion." A Mr. J , who had expressed some regard for her at a former period, had of late become a delinquent; and while Amnanda, her handsome yellow girl, was the mother, Mr. J  was the father of this child! I never saw expression in our hostess's eyes but once; and that was when she told me he had often besought her to sell him his child; but that her revenge was, to retain it always in slavery I Mistress K    remarked that she had never read but one novel- she was confid- ing, very- and that she had named several of her slaves from it.. Hence, Amanda--in whom  I felt much interest.  Poor thing! how I pitied her, as, summoned by her mis- tress at stated intervals, she took a seat upon the floor, and there, swaying to and fro, she nursed her baby from  her breast,   MEMORIES OP A GRANDMOlTH'l .   71 and sang the same words over and over, of "Tell you mammy what you    want;" the plaintive air of which I can always recall, as memory often turns to that happy period of my existence, when, like the kaleidoscope before the eye of a child, whichever way I moved there was brightness, newness .and beauty  notwithstanding  the  drawhack  of slavery- to wonder over and admire.' It was too true, that disease and death were making fearful visits all over the island; -but we  were not anxious--and  it seemed that a feeling of trust in our Heavenly Father, and our own perfect love, did- indeed -"cast out fear."' On our way to the dining-hall we often passed  the bed-room of  Mistress K  ; where once, to  my dismay, I beheld within the  snowy  drapery of her bed a frightful looking spider, as large as an  inkstand, (I speak not extravagantly,) come tumbling and swinging himself down from the canopy above like the motion of a  child in a baby-jumper. After walking round at his leisure; he ascended again without interference of any kind. See- ing my  look of horror, his room-mate assured   72   MEMORIES OF A GRANDMOTHER. me he was her very dear friend-her pet --in whom  was centered the luck of the house; and that without him she should be  ! wretched. He had been her companion for years!  I promised, sincerely, never to dis- turb him i Our letters soon brought us many calls, and greatly was I interested in all I saw and heard.  I had often  been attracted toward 'a house of singular construction, on a distant hill above us, whence the American flag daily sported out in the morning breeze, or hung lazily down at the sultry noon. Miss    told me- two of our countrymen lived - there - one with a lovely wife; and it was the richest house in the city. She related several incidents connected with a ball recently given; the only one of which that particularly struck me, being that of a Baron    , who, while- dancing in his, spurs, took to himself half of a most beauti- ful flounce from the dress of a Spanish Jewess present! To my question, if gentlemen there danced in their spurs, she replied that it was not at all uncommon. She showed me the Blue Beard or Pirate's   MEMORIES OF A GRANDMOTHER.      73 Hills, -where  the   first inhabitants of the island lived; and ever, as I looked, I mar- velled to myself whether the fair being who, from   ill. health, was confined  within  that strange looking  building, far'- up above me, would ever come to, know     me; whether I should be so happy as to meet one so, much beloved for her gentle, unobtrusive charities, and her missionary visitings to the sick and suffering in that strange land. But here I linger and pause, dreading to go on. I marked a soft arch sweep its way over heaven; It spanned as it ruled the fierce storm which it bound; The moonshine, the shower, to its influence seemed given, And the black clouds grew bright in the beautiful round. "I looked out again, but few hues were remaining On the side nearest earth; while I gazed, they were past; As a steed for a time with its curb proudly straining, Then freed in its strength, came the tempest at last." 7 ,- -      - ' -      . ^   CHAPTER IX. "Affection is an awful thing! Alas! We give our destiny from our own hands, And trust to those most frail of all frail things, The chances of humanity." "O, youth may sicken at its bloom, And wealth and fame pray for the tomb; But can love bear from love to part, And not cling to that one dear heart?" TRUTH  still holds up the page of memory, and points to a continuation of my story. In the very midst of our bright anticipa- tions, entering with the fairest sunshine and the most balmy breezes, the Destroyer     came in--and my husband was the     victim! Yellow  fever, the most malignant, fastened upon  him.   My  tears-my   prayers -the most skilful medical aid-the kindest services from all around-were    unavailing; and for six days only, after the seizure, was he minel I was on my knees, half frantic with agony, when they told me she was gone.     I fell, I   MEMORIES OF A GRANDMOTHER.   75 knew not where  but woke to find myself in another room. I listened. I thought I heard the words "this afternoon," in reply to a question. I rose. I ran wildly back to my own room.  The people tried to stay me, but I could not be withheld--and I clearly remember laughing, as they looked so frightened at me. We had many friends- all striving with each other as to who had a prior claim to being useful and kind. A dreadful apprehension had arisen in my mind of an immediate burial, where the semblance of death might be but a trance; and I sprang to the bed-side where, day in and day out, night after night, with the faithful slave Manning near, I had sat or stood on my watch with the beloved sufferer; where he had besought me to bear up under the inevitable blow -and where I had asked for death as fervently, of a Father above, as a hungry child could beg for bread of an earthly one. There was the rocking chair, sent to the house for my use, the only one in the island: there were the phials - the bay-water, so. cooling to the fevered head- the  fresh   76   MEMORIES OF A GRANDMOTHER. green oranges --the banana leaf, furled like a banner, from which I had taken a soft, healing covering for a sharp blister  the preserves and flowers, sent in by unknown hands, were there--but he! where was HE? The bed was deserted - the chairs were covered with white--everything was white. I staid not there. I was looking for him; I would not be controlled. To the next room then, I ran-and there-O, cruel memory! there I found him! Over his noble brow, clustering locks of glossy black were lying in folded ringlets. His finely cut, classic features wore the serenity of repose. The once spirited nostril was contracted; but the perfect mouth- the expressive curve of that upper lip-was one happy smile! I felt like an incensed queen, come to claim a subject stolen from me  by the monster Death! -As I cast myself upon the heart that in life had beat in such beautiful harmony with mine  whose most silent wish had been my most active law; as I placed my hand upon the brow, and found it cold as marble--my foot struck   some  object   MEMORIES OF A GRANDMOTHER.     " beneath the drapery  of the bed-side,- and I stooped to look, with a mechanical precision strange at such an hour, when, lifting the curtain, I beheld a coffin shrouded with black! Then the -rebellious spirit gave way-and all was dark again. "And this was the sign of thy answer, dark spirit! Alas! and such ever our pathway appears; Tempest and change still our earth must inherit - Its glory a shade, and its loveliness tears." 7*   .        v *    CHAPTER X. "I burn no incense, hang no wreath, On this thine early tomb; Such cannot cheer the place of death, But only mock its gloom. It is enough, that she, whom thou Didst love in living years, Sits desolate beside it now, And weeps with bitter tears." I HAD lost myself--for how long I knew not-but where had    I been?   Not in the spiritual world--for I met him    not there; and of the material world I remembered nothing  since striking my foot against that dark object, come to claim all that was my precious and my best. It was very  quiet around.  Not a step, not  a  voice was  near, when   I opened my eyes with a most luxurious sensation- as of one sweetly refreshed after a long and painful journey, and who was now reposing at home.  I did  not stir -for I   MEMORIES OF A GRANDMOTHiS.   79 wished to prolong the enjoyment-and yet it was no dream.  Where could I be? I was on a bed of matchless purity and ease. There were glass windows to the room, (a comfort unknown, at that time, in any other house in St. T    except the Governor's,) -a book-case, stored with choice volumes, stood opposite-and the dressing table and bureau had an American look about them, such as I had not seen since I left home. I lay with no motion, save a rolling of the eyes from corner to corner for several minutes, until a creeping sense of fear arose, lest a movement of my head might dispel all, and I be consigned to darkness again. There were thick folds of beautiful lace and muslin around the bed-and, through an opening in the drapery, I thought I saw a dark figure, leaning over an open book near a window to the gallery.  Suddenly I raised my head ; and  the blistered neck -the bandaged  arm -the  poor, bruised, bereaved heart- were all my own!  It was no illusion. I was yet living --and  to live and to realize now, with a recovered   80   MEMORIES OF A GRANDMOTHEL. brain, how utterly wretched and forsaken I was., Of my Heavenly Father I thought not- for my lovely child I cared not.   I only saw myself, in the selfishness of this crowning sorrow, as a shipwrecked being, body and soul  yet condemned, Sisyphus-like, still to bear up the load assigned me; and I closed my eyes wearily, loathing an exist- ence I  longed to leave. A  groan from ,the depth of misery opened my fevered lips, and called to the bed-side the figure I had seen. "You are better, I think - you must have slept some time, Mrs.      it is quite late, but-you will be strong now, we hope," said the softest and sweetest female voice I ever heard.   Another groan was  the reply; for now I preferred the closed eyes, where I could  preserve an outward dark- ness- something  like that enshrouding my soul. I recalled with cruel distinctness -those dreary days and hours of the past week, that had gone over me like waters swallowing up every leaf of hope, every straw that floated by--reached for, but never gained.   At length she bent over me, and took my hand   MEMORIES OF A GRANDMOTHER.   81 in heis. The touch comforted-it re-assured me.  There was, then, something tender, and good, and loving, yet left on the earth! She smoothed my tangled hair, that had been tossed back and forth in my brain's delirium -and I looked upon her with eyes that had long been tearless. My  first question was, -"Where am I?" To this she replied. that I was in her house; adding, "I am a countrywoman, dear Mrs.    , a sister-look at me.  I am in sorrow, in. a foreign land also.- I have buried a dear relative. Just from a sick bed myself, in a climate, most ungenial, I am yet feeble. You will find true sympathy with us." Lifting an English- prayer-book from the table, she asked, "Shall I read to you from this?"  to which I replied by raising my head from the pillow, and lean- ing my face upon her shoulder -weeping long .and freely. Mrs. S   was dressed in mourning. Her face was very pale and lovely; while her pure blue eyes seemed lighted up by the spirit of an angel. Never- never-can I forget her. Such sisterly love-such minin-   82   MEMORIES OF A GRANDMOTHER. tering from Heaven itself, through her, to a bleeding heart!  O, blessed consoler! em- bodying in the form of a lovely woman the sweetness of Love, Hope- and Charity - how beautiful and holy is thy memory to me I We sat long together.  She kissed me, and wiped away tear after tear.  She wept with me.  Every sentence she uttered seemed to remove a hot iron bar that had lain across my heart, sealing in a bitterness deeply corroding; and, as this poured forth, a cooler fountain- flowed, and the mighty grief was subdued into a silent tearful sorrow. Sweet Lucy S   ! well wert thou named for light! She carefully and gently told me how- I had been led to her house, from that low and narrow street ;- that I had walked all the way - there being no carriage road; that I had remained for hours silently look- ing, from a side window, down on the street I had left; that I had refused to eat or drink, and sat like a sullen child, addressing, answering, no one; and that Dr. S--  had thought it best to reduce me to the weak- ness which obliged me to lie down.   She roused my sympathies for another by stating,   MEMORIES OF A GRANDMOTHER.    83 that, in that .very house, in a room across the hall opposite mine, there lay, at that moment, an estimable young man from the States, (young W---, from    New  York,) dangerously ill of yellow   fever, and for whom there was no hope.  She then brought to me my child - who had been clad by some friend in a robe of black.  There he stood-the fair spirit of his father-living, loving and laughing; but darkness was yet around the mortal part-there was a garb of mourning over all. I,                      ' z   CHAPTER XI. "How sweet a memory remains! though dead The green leaves, and decayed the stem, yet still The spirit of fragrance lingers, loath to leave Its dear abode. . Just so love haunts the heart, Though withered, and to be revived no more. O, nothing has the memory of love!" ONCE again was reason overwhelmed as by a flood.  Friends sought to  dissuade, yet I felt that I must see my husband's grave. Weak and worn, yet calm and quiet, lean- ing on the  kind  arm  of Mr. H    , one evening I walked slowly to the spot.   There was a lime-tree  at its head, and   I knelt silently beside the sacred mound.   Without one word, we retraced our steps to the house upon the hill;-  that house whereon my gaze had so often rested, and whence many a kind message  had been borne me by Dr. S  from  its gentle mistress, to know  if she could be of any use -her ill health preventing her visiting in person.  To such  a message   MEMORIES OF A, GRANDMOTHER.   85 I always replied, "Not of any-unless she can restore him to health"-as I turned my eyes where all I ever wished to see, was reclining, flushed with a glow so soon to fade in death. The effort had been a great one, and I know not how long I had lain; but when I woke to consciousness, I saw the excellent Dr. S- beside me-who asked if, in the event of my death, I would give to him the care of my little son. "Would  you be kind to him?" said I. "Indeed I would ; and, thank God, my means are ample," was the reply; a reply  characteristic of a most noble, generous soul. Since then, I have learned that he has obtained  grant from the King of Denmark, enabling him to resign a pro- fession so dark-sided in his view. Well did he deserve all his fortune. Never shall I forget that brotherly kindness over the sick- bed; that comfort-breathing voice at every visit; that earnest, hopeful, though mistaken assurance: "I will guarantee him  for five stivers!" which sent a joyful thrill through my being, and made, for the time, every duty light.   86   MEMORIES OF A GBRANDMOtRlEA:. In this connection, and by way of explan- ation, it may be proper to remark, that the practice of the, professions, and indeed of many or most of the trades, in St. T    , is a government monopoly. A limited number only, of physicians and lawyers, are allowed to practice --and these must come out, or derive their sanction, under some form of government patronage, from Copenhagen, and their services be terminated by some form of dispensation from the same authority.  As they charge for their services what they please - sometimes thousands of dollars in a single case of a few  weeks standing- the moderation and disinterestedness of Dr. S were the more apparent; and the scruples which led him to the resignation of so lucra- tive an occupation, the more creditable to the delicate feelings of his nature. No one, not similarly situated, can con- ceive of the  kindness intuitive with the natives of St. T    .         \ Sometimes, as a crier was entering our street, I would step out on the gallery, and, placing a finger on my lip, point within- shaking my head at his shrill cry oft "Hate   MEIORIES OF A GRANDMOTHER.    87 malek -here's hate malek " - when he would at once turn, giving me a mournful look, and go down another way; thus preferring to lose the sale of his hot milk, rather than disturb the slumbers of the sick. During our residence with Mistress K  , there lived, in a house opposite, a handsome JMustee, the mother of several children. Once their noise reached ;us, and I had but to point to my room, over my shoulder, and give one- look of entreaty, when those soft, dark eyes were cast upward, one jewelled hand laid quickly upon the heart, while the other sent an affirmative from the lips with a graceful but sad expression--the tout en- semble of which was this : "I see it all- I know  your history.  You shall be no more troubled by me and mine.    You will have enough  to bear ;"-and   the green jalousie was closed between me and my kind vis-a-vis forever. With my recovery to health, I prepared to return to my native land. It was at the close of a day in September, when I was told that young W    , before referred to, wished to see me.  He was a clerk in the OA   88   MEMORIES OF A GRANDMOTHER. house of C. R. & Co.--then the largest mercantile establishment on the island. I stood by the bedside of the amiable sufferer. A raging fever had' crimsoned his cheeks, and kindled his eyes with wildness; he addressed me calmly, as if knowing my position, and giving me his hot, dry hand he- said :-"And you are going to the States, while H--  " He turned hastily to thie wall --and, overcome by a sense of his own condition and mine, I pressed his hand and left the room. In an hour afterwards he sent me a small red prayer-book, requesting my acceptance, with his farewell. During the day following he died. It has been a regret to me that I could not know of his family. The little prayer-book, which I had kept under my pillow in my berth, was lost dur- ing our- boisterous passage home; and his name was lost with it, or I might have been directed by it to a mother or sister, and -have borne to them his' last' words. One evening previous to the day of em- barking for the United States, I was told thati Manning, the excellent servant who had shared with me my sad duties, wished to see O   MEMORIES OF A GRANDMOTHER.   89 me. -Thinking he came to pay his parting respects, I bade him 'good-bye, and thanked him for his fidelity. He looked upon me with a touching expression of appeal, and said :-- "Would n't Missis buy me, and take me to America?   I replied that I was poor, and could give him neither home nor employment.  He wiped his eyes and said - "Missis could let me out by the day, as my Massa does here, and make some money so." I satisfied him of the impossibility of grant- ^ ing his request; --and, after being several days out at sea, among the many luxuries and delicacies sent on board ship by kind friends for my comfort, there was shown me a bag of- sweet potatoes from  the faithful slave Manning I My passage home was a sad. and severe one.  In a terrible gale, the captain and crew, despaired of our safety.  As I lay in my berth, unable to move lest my child should be dashed from me, with' the pitching and plunging of the ship, I remember remark ing the -wild motion of an amiable fellow passenger, under whose protection I had left St. T--   ; and whose ill health and gentlh   90   MEMORIES OF A GRANDMOTHER. manners had rendered him very much esteemed by me.  It was Mr. P--  ?  , of New York. Strange to say, -while I was perfectly calm, he struck his hand upon his brow, and addressing me said, that he  had  known himself as a declining invalid for years-- had accustomed himself to think of death night and  day- -had thought himself pre- pared to go ;-but he did not. expect to meet death in this fearful shape, and now felt that his assurance was false. The wind, which had been driving us on the shoals of Cape Hatteras, suddenly shifted - sending us out into sea;-room- again- or we certainly should never have reached  a port. We presented a spectacle for sympa- thy, as we " rode , quarantine "- and, soon after, I was restored to kind and' anxious friends.    CHAPTER         XII. "She felt That bird-like pining for some gentle home, To which affection might attach itself; - That weariness, which hath but outward part In what the world calls pleasure, and that chill Which makes life taste the bitterness of death." "So, for the father's sake the child was dear, And dearer was the father for the child." How   changed  was my  aspect, as, after the lapse of a few short years, I again visited O     I I had worn there my bridal dress of white;--now     I stood on  the threshold of the loved old home, in the sable garments ofwidowhood, leading a gentle boy to receive a grandsire's blessing. My little boy grew in loveliness with every day.   He was tall and   slender, with   the most  graceful, agile figure   I ever beheld His upper lip   was  Cupid's  bow;  and, but for. the  energy   expressed  by  the dilating nostril, and a lofty manner of bearing himself,   92   MEMORIES OF A GRANDMOTHERI he would have appeared effeminate - so deli- cate were his features. Across the nose, from either eye, ran a pale blue vein; and over a brow that seemed to express some holy purpose-, a brow  one involuntarily wished to press to the heart- there clustered ring- lets of richest gold. I have sometimes felt that fair' brow to be like the cross of the Catholic upon the bosom -whose very touch would sanctify. JVow, as I write, from time to time my eyes seek a picture hanging near.  It is of a young man, holding in his arms a pretty child- whose frightened expression accords well with- its position. of restraint in baby! hood. The original of the infant is one of mine, yet I have never seen the child. The father -is that once fair being- surprisingly so in infancy, but now how. differentl He looks as if no longer mine.  He has done battle with the world, Over the curved lip lies a -dark moustache, and the cheek seems thin and long.  Without cause for sorrow -being most happy: in his relations--there is a -look. of- sternness and thought, which lwak es- a .note .of -sadness while .I gaze. Years   MEMORIES OF A GRANDMOTHEI.   - 93 have sped since I saw that face--but I am yet hopeful' for the re-union. Southern climes have browned it- -and they say it has a proud look, a regal air; but to me it is only, the one sweet face that once warmed my spirit back to life, and nestled trustingly on my bosom, My heart was not all left in that foreign land- although- Memory  sat often in her mantle of black, beneath the lime-tree that threw its slender shade across a lonely grave in the Danish church-yard.  No ;- my best affections were now all awake, and centered in the person of my only  child. I felt that for such a gift from Heaven I could not be too  grateful ;--and I was strong in the hope that I should train this dear child in the only true way, leading to -ever- lasting life. The following lines, written at the time when the sharpness of my grief had become subdued, will show how my gift was laid before the altar. Creator of the Universe I Thy heart-felt praise I sing; While to Thy holy altar, Lord, My sacrifice I bring.   "   MEMORIES OF A GRANDMOTHER. It is not treasures from the mine, Nor pearls from 'neath the sea; A richer gift I offer here-- My only child, tot Thee I O, guard him through life's devious way, Where e'er his wanderings be; And gently prompt him to the path That opens, Lord, on Thee. And when his task on earth is done When death shall -hover near- O, smooth his couch, O, be Thou nigh To banish every fear.- In gratitude and love, I bring The gift thou gavest me;. And on Thy altar, consecrate My child - my all - to Thee. Again, as I have said, I rested my wing - passage bird that I was - in the sunshine of my early  home.   There  sat my  grand- mother, as of -yore; there    might be seen my grandsire, over his favorite volume. The group of fair girls had been lessened--for a guest now and then, not insensible to such charms, had looked in, and taken thence each one a lamb for his own fold. My grandfather's face was beautiful. His   MEMORIES OF A GRANDMOT'i'IR.  95 head was like a fine engraving I have of Moses, taken from a number  of Fletcher's Bible. And, then, he was always singing so happily - singing praises even as he went to sleep I Once -years after- as I saw him in his widowhood, I said, pointing to a portrait,--"Are you not lonely now, sir, since grandma' has gone? ' "Je, lonely?" replied he--placing his spectacles on an open page of the Bible, over which I found him -"No, my dear daughter- -I talk with her, or with angels, all the time." He was ever conversing in his bed-room, if one could do so alone; but, like Tasso, of old, he was talking with a. spirit. His affection for the Bible was singular. I have seen him  open it caressingly, as a mother would fondly and gently unclose the folds concealing the worshipped features of a sleep- ing infant's face. Then again he would approach it as a hungry man might a well- prepared meal, with glad eyes, ;and a kind of tasting with the lips, as of the sweets to come. This venerable and beloved grandfather, died not many years after ; and the follow- .                    A    96   MEMORIES OF A GRANDMO0IS1t, ing obituary notice, from a newspaper of the day, will show  in what estimation he was publicly held, and with what respect his memory was regarded.  Of course, I antici- pate somewhat, by inserting it in the present place: - "Singularly gifted in prayer and exhorta- tion, he was a Christian missionary where-- ever he went, by sea or by land; and was beloved and' revered of the brethren of all the churches, and especially of his own faith. He raised the first Bethel Flag, for deck- worship of seamen, in New   York and in Boston; and has lived  to see the fruits thereof in the numerous Mariners' Chapels that have been erected in our commercial cities. Religion was his daily bread, and prayer his breath of life. Though suddenly summoned, he received death in his dwelling as a familiar acquaintance and friend. To him it was a transition, not an end. "When told by his physician that the attack was mortal, ' Praise be to God l' he exclaimed- ' His time has -corme!  None could feel more sincerely and surely than he did the truth of the beautiful thought :   MEMORIES OP A GRANDMOTHi:lt.   9 "'There is no death. What seems so is transition. This life of mortal breath Is but a suburb of the life Elysian, Whose portal we call death.' "He had long wished not to outlive him. self--and it was his happiness, and that oi those who loved him    most, that he retained his full mental- vigor to the last; and when the bright sun  rose upon him, on  the last day  of  the year, and of his long earthly pilgrimage, he  hailed it aloud as ' The glori- ous sun, emblem of the Sun of Righteousness, rising  with healing in his wings I' "The good   old man was  buried on the 2d day of January, from   the village meeting- house, with all the memorials of love, devo- tion, and respect, which should follow toAthe grave the venerable, the pious, and the just; -five clergymen  officiating  at the funeral services, and  the  large congregation, that gathered around his placid remains, serenely feeling that it was good to be there, at the burial of the righteous man--and   silently praying that their last end might be like his. "In the great chart of his' life, and the 9   98   MEMORIES OF A GRANDMOTHER. book of his daily converse, the New, Testa- ment, he had written--' By grace are ye saved, through faith; and that not of your- selves; it is the gift of God. At my death preach the above; for truly all our salva- tion is by and through grace - Amen and Amen. "' A     A   CHAPTER XIII. When I said I would die a bachelor, I did not think I should live till I were married." "Dust may enfold thee, Child of our love -- Earth may not hold thee, Spirit above! u Bud of fair promise, Watered with tears  A blossom plucked from us, In Heaven appears." I STAID not long,    this  time, at my dear old home in 0----. I returned to my mother, in  order to share with her a part of the family care. It was  about one year after my sojourn in the West  Indies, during a     visit to the house  of  a   dear  friend, when I met and was  made  acquainted  with  a   bachelor, who prided  himself greatly  upon  his happiness independent  of matrimony.  He   assured  us that no  position  in life could possibly com-   100   MEMORIES OF A GRANDMOT1'HtE. pare with his own, for comfort and freedom from care. He said he pitied his married friends--while they  were bestowing upon him the title of Pilgarlic 1 In easy circumstances, of a noble, gener- ous heart, with a most amiable disposition and handsome exterior, he was always a favorite with the ladies; yet no one had, up to the age of thirty-three years, ever won his affections, or surprised-him into an avowal approaching a tender confession. Beside, he was afraid, he said, of risking his certain peace ;- and, of all risks, that of wedding a widow would be the wildest!* Connected with myself, there was  an, object on which, without suspicion of any design, he could lavish his caresses, and for whom he could express the kind and warm affections of his nature. This was my father- less boy.  Mr.     did not dream at first, while caressing the child upon his knee, how gratified the mother was by such preference ;-nor did  either suspect how very surely that regard and her gratitude were flowing on, to end in a consummation as, natural as could be.    MEMORIES OF A GRANDMOTHER.   101 We married, and were happy.   It was not the poetic dreaming of other days - but it was a " sober certainty of waking bliss." Let it not be believed, that, by' loving the living, we forget or slight the dead. I know it is sometimes thought -in case of a second or third attachment, after a separation by death, where constancy sat by the pillow to the very last- that comparisons are drawn, invidious perhaps, and often depreciating; but, with refined minds, such, it seems to. me, can never be the case.   To a soul naturally  sympathetic, there  is constantly flowing in, from the spirit-world, a stream of affections ever fresh and new; -and who shall say it is not a renewal of that which was removed in one shape but to appear in another? Think not that the affections die with the object. It is not so.  I have a   lovely friend, now in Italy, where the grand desire of her life is to be realised. I was once with her over the beautiful corpse of an only child. The storm   came, and the reed was swept prostrate, but not uprooted. It rose again. A   most ex 'isite artist, she hade 9    102   MEMORIES OF A GRANDMOTHER. neglected her genius for this charming boy. It called upon"7 her -again from its native cell, and she answered the voice. She found in the Dusseldorf Gallery ample food for her taste. Her paintings from  sketches made there,-are the admiration of all. I see, in the sun-light on the hill-tops, a smile from little Charlie ;-in the shadows from  the Norway pines, his infant gravity; and, in the sparkling crests of the water's foam, I can almost hear his laugh-- and see him, as once, with his straw hat in hand, he was chasing my canaries as they flew around my room. I almost forgot, in my new  connection, that Death had ever visited me ;--and the sweet name of father, uttered by my little boy, was ever responded to in the kindest tones, by Mr.   . A son of his own was the reward for this--and within two and half -years the added gift of a fair girl -- who charmed away our hours and days, to the exclusion of everything like care or sorrow. My darling E    was the joy of her house -and I felt- that these blessings were sent to me to make' p :for my great. first   MEMORIES OF A GRANDMOTHER.   103 grief. What presumption I Was my Maker to apologize to an earth-worm like me? In the' very midst of my fancied security, the king of terrors again laid his icy hand upon my heart; and my precious gem - but little more than two years my own - was taken to adorn another crown. O, how I prayed that she might live l How I clung to her fair remains I How I fancied my own warmth might restore warmth to her cold form I It was all vain.  She died, with her head on my breast-- while one hand  had sought my bosom.  Long-- long--did I   hold that cold and stiffening frame --and then I bathed and arrayed it for the coffin, with my own hands. There was a bitter struggle-the-last look of a loving mother at the door of the tomb; and - home to the vacant crib - the toys-- -the little shoes-the marks upon   the win- dow- and   the aching heart I "Oh! these are recollections, 'Round mothers' hearts that cling--- That mingle with the tears And smiles of after years, With oft awakening." a en.   , i, ! CHAPTER XIV-. "When sorrows come, they come not single spies, But in battalions." "Insatiate archer! could not once suffice? Thy shaft flew thrice, and thrice my peace was slain." TIME brought its relief.   My two sons were fine, promising boys ; - but years, five" years, had passed, and given us no daughter to take the place of our lost E     , and share our love.  I loved dearly my boys- but I longed for the gentle companionship of a girl. My  wish was granted ;- yet dark    as night was the day on which she came.    It found me distracted by suspense, worn down by watching-fearing - hoping -trembling- over the sick couch of her father-her birth was but the precursor of his death. Grief-child indeed she was! a poor and puny thing, to   MEMORIES OFA .GRANDMOTHER.   105 dry, with her soft unconscious cheek, mine wet with tears. I did  not then realize how often her cheering voice, in after days, would strengthen and console my sinking spirit!  How, but for her, I must have fallen into a state of hopeless despondency! How those feeble tones would come -to utter an appeal that I would trust -trust!-to which I have since yielded, as 'those helpless members then yielded to me. Of the sad memories of that time -of my dear husband's death-I can record but little. As peaceful as an infant he went to sleep. Death came to  him, not as the king of terrors, but as Lthe " master of ceremonies, to introduce him to the courts above."  On a morning  of thunder and rain, he was laid in his father's tomb.  Friends were around, full of sympathy; but my soul was full of woe- and I sought a, solitude not easily found even in my own house. At such seasons, words of consolation are too often like " drops from the Upas tree, they blister where they fall;"-and, with my babe upon my bosom, I stole down to the kitchen-hearth, for refuge from interrup-   106   MEMORIES OF A GRANDMO0'1tK. tion. On entering, I was surprised to remark a pleased expression on the face of a faith- -ful servant --who  said to me, "Fine   day for the master, this l" at which, astonished, I demanded what she meant. "Happy the bride that the sun shines on- And happy the corpse that the rain rains on"- was all her answer.  Strange. though it seem -her words had less of pain to me than any I had heard that day. In view   of my many, my thrice-repeated bereavements, my bosom was torn with con- flicting emotions; - and well could I realize and have given expression to the blended sentiment of the poet-. l   Wo, for thy many triumphs, Death I Wo that the righteous perisheth, And no man layeth it to heart I Yet hath his spirit sweet release - o His troubles and his trials cease- And evei, in the perfect peace Of God he hath a part."   CHAPTERll XV. "Come leave the pent city, and take a long stroll, Where the billows and surges in majesty roll; Like the Pilgrims of old meet the waves dashing high, With no fear in your heart, and no tear in your eye. "Come stroll on the beach, where the light shadows play, Like coy goddess of night with the god of the day; Nor fear e'en the storm-cloud that darkens the air, Quick relieved by God's bow of benignity there. "Or, if pleasures domestic are more to yopr taste, Leave, for greener resort, the low-tide's sandy waste  Retreat for a while to the wood's shady bowers, And enjoy in sweet converse the fugitive hours." THERE    seemed  ever a  panacea  in  the air of the pine woods of O--       , for a bruised heart -  a   health  in  the breezes of  the  sea for a heated and disordered head -and a necessity   for the sound   of  prayers  my  girl- hood    knew, for a   sinking,  saddened   soul, With   my- two    boys, then,  a  nurse, and  my grief-child, I  sought  the  home  of my  grand- parents, in   a  fourth  phase  of my  varied  life. It   was  not in  vain  I sought it. - *    *   108   MEMORIES OF A GRANDMOTHERI To train these bright boys--to strengthen this tender babe-was care enough. Through those groves I rode on horseback, with my sons, and there my feeble infant drew in the breath of health, from the bursting pine-bud, and the salt sea-weed. One pleasant day in Autumn, I mounted a little pony, and cantered off to the woods alone. When about two miles from home, I perceived, a little in advance of me, an open wagon, in which were seated three females. Two were on a front seat, the third in a chair behind, with her baby in her lap. We were descending a steep, gravelly hill, at the foot of which came a sudden turn; and just at that point their, horse started, throwing out with violence the mother and her babe -who lay, one upon the roadside, the other some distance from her, both alike stunned and insensible.  Those in the wagon, did not miss their company behind, for several minutes. In an instant I was on the ground, pitching and stumbling in my long skirt, as I reached and raised the pretty child in my arms. It did not breathe. JI rubbed it I blew upon   MEMORIES OF A GRANDMO'l'HER.  109 it -but it stirred not.  I tore open the buttons to my jacket and placed the quiet lips to my breast, where my own babe ever found a fountain fresh and pure. A slight tremor passed over the face -a quivering of the closed, lips - and -then they opened, and drew freely from   the welcome and natural source of all its little store of pleasure. With this, the impeded circulation returned -and, as soon as the mother was restored, the child was placed safely in her arms again.  I remounted my little pony, who " picked his way " along, through paths under trees, sometimes "twitching   me half over his head as he snatched at the herbage around-realizing to myself the happiness of' laving been  able thus to "-do, good and communicate."' I was once invited, with others, to attend a funeral in the vicinity of O   ; and I shall never forget the circumstances, or the touching- group that Death had   sculptured there. As we drove through the woods toward the  house  of mourning, the  sky became overcast and rainy, while the wind sent a low, he "W o' (   "O   MEMORIES OF A GRANDMOTHER. melancholy wail through the waving pines, a fitting requiem for the good, the young and lovely, soon to be laid away forever firom the sight of those to whose eyes she was a cherished object of love and tenderness. The deceased was a resident in a city, but this was the home of her infancy, the revered home of her parents -- the green  spot to which she' could turn in after years., The hallowed altar was here whereon her purest offerings had been laid, mingled -with the sweetness of kindred love. Here she was to bring her own offspring, that they might share with her the family repose. Alas - this last hope died with the first realization I The youthful mother and the innocent babe indeed repose where the tumult of life can awake them no more.  The light of Heaven shone upon the child, but no breath of earth ever entered its peaceful bosom.  In the coffin slept a fair tenant whose eyes were closed so calmly, so naturally, you would involun- tarily hush a sound lest you broke a slumber so sweet. These lines, (Wesley's, I believe,) instantly came to my mind, and I never before felt their meaning as then:   MEMORIES OF A GRANDMOT Ht. l.. ' Ah, lovely appearance of death! What sight upon earth is so fair?  Not all the gay pageants that breathe, Can with a dead body compare. Of evil incapable, thou Whose relics with envy I see, No longer in misery now, No longer a sinner like me." On the right arm    reclined a tiny infant whose little hands were like two snow-flakes crossed on the breast, and the face of the mother was slightly turned, and seemed bent caressingly  upon the head where so  many hopes and so much pride would have been centered. There seemed to me an expression of joy, such as mothers alone can know, around the closed eyes and lips, as if the consciousness of this new and precious endowment by a Maker's hand had upborne her in her hour of physical suffering,- and outweighed it all! Flowers were there upon and within    the coffin, rare,  fragrant, and  beautiful. The blossomed rose was there, and tender white bud  with   unfolded  leaves. On  the  left arm, with its ruffled plumage and now tune- less breast, lay a dead canary, nestling as it   "2   MEMO0RIES OF A GRANDMOTHERe. were, for protection still. The history was one of poetry, tenderness, sorrow, and despair. In attempting to rescue a loved pet from the grasp of a cat, the fatal shaft was sped that caused this sudden  and most heart-rending bereavement. But she sleeps well - she lies beside her parent's home - while we yield her spirit to her tHeavenly Father's arms,  those voices of affection she once loved to hear, are now sighing forth her virtues and their sorrows for the " early dead."' The hand of love will train earth's fairest flowers around her rest- ing place--the tones of the village church bell will float above her grave, as each Sab- bath day calls forth the worshipper to the temple near --the summer night bird will sing his sad pathos there-the honored and truly loved are sleeping by her side. Those trees whereon my tearful gaze has often been fixed while lost in dreams of the beloved dead - those trees will wave in solemn, slow, mysterious motion, as if bearing from each other a mission  from  their Maker, r as if whispering, " fulfil ye your destiny faithfully; like us, ye will soon be called to wither-   MEMORIES OF A GRANDMOTHER.      113 see   that,' like  us, ye reappear in   beauty given by your Creator i " "Life is real, life is earnest, And the grave is not its goal; Dust thou art, to dust returnest, Was not spoken of the soul!" Finding, among my memories of that time, the following   effusions, I  add  them  to the other   simple  but  sincere  records  of  the heart. AUTUMN    IN  O . O, what a glad and glorious morning shines Upon the earth beneath this Autumn sky! An Indian Summer piles its riches round, And bids the diligent repose in joy Upon the fruits his weary hand hath won. T How I do love to steal these treasured sweets, To taste this feast I helped not to prepare, And thus to commune in my inmost soul With thee, dear Nature, who dost lead me so Direct above thee, where thy Maker dwells. Below me lies the freshy shaven lawn, Where stacks of new-made hay salute the sense, More redolent than aught the hand of man Hath oft essayed to shape in sweet pastille, Or steep for gilded case in fair boudoir; And lo, to freight more rich the scented air, A row of golden quinces line the field, 10o   "4    MEMORIES OF A GRANDMOTHER. Hundreds on hundreds heaped, and creeping on The clustering bough lies weighed upon the- earth. There through the trellis stood prepared to bear The clasping vine adorning as it grew, The truant grape, (truant to man alone,) Preferred to cling around a friendly tree Which reached its arms persuading to repose, And hang its clusters where soft Nature breathed. O, holy Nature! I could prostrate fall Upon thy bosom, and could smite myself That I have brought no harvest to the field - That all my life has been so profitless. Thou wert my first love, and thy lessons were Of truth enduring, of reward for toil, Of all that elevates and crowns the soul; And I have loved to draw thy accents in, And write thy precious moral on my heart; And yet I fall so short of all the good Thy teachings should have perfected in me, I blush to feel that all I can return Is the pure love my early childhood knew. Above yon hill amid the higher trees A whitened chimney rises to my view - Within those ancient walls a Christian dwells, As worn with time as is his antique home- - He brings a golden harvest to the plain, A life all full of worthy memories; An hundred hearts respond to love for him. And as each year a link may have been taken YFrom the great chain that binds him here below, He lives in patience for the final call That bids his spirit to the gathering in, A sheaf all ripe for the great Reaper's care. And yonder, 'mid a company of graves, Lies one where I have made the cypress grow.   MEMORIES OF- A GRANDMO'THER.     115 She went a faithful steward of her Lord, Her work well done, her recompense secure; There, by her side, a vacant spot remains For thee, my honored grandsire - thy repose. Shall I not rise and see what I can do, With Autumns such as these before my eyes? O, wake my spirit- let me hasten forth, Plant the good seed, and cultivate the soil, So that the fruit may speak for me at last, And I may hear those blessed words -" well done." TO  MY  LITTLE COUSIN'S PICTURE. She sleeps upon her downy pillow there, A fair young child with dark and glossy hair, And I have drawn the silken shade away, In silent watchfulness with her to stay. Above her little couch a vase doth stand, Holding pale flowers transferred from her soft hand; And the sweet face lies sleeping towards me, So one can see her dreams are heavenly. Music comes stealing on the pensive ear, Its tones are-soft - they will not startle here. Fair child, art weary with the summer day, And comest thus to rest thee after play? How slumber presses those long lashes down! How listlessly those graceful arms are thrown! Sleep in her loveliness is here exprest, Smiling upon that innocent young breast. Thou art the last of a long family,       r Fair child; - the latest bud upon the tree; Wake thee and take thy own appropriate place, And blossom forth a blessing to thy race;   "6    MEMORIES OF A GRANDMOThlER. Thy parents miss thee at the hour of prayer, Thy sisters vainly seek thee every where, Thy brothers ask in. vain the gentle tone That used in glee to mingle with their own; Spring has returned and blossomed on the air Since thou dear Ad& hast been lingering there, Summer has come and brought its flowers for thee, Birds have sang merrily from every tree, Autumn has spread its golden feast around, Winter hath shed its snows upon the ground; I have been here, thy curtain oft upraised, And on thy sweet and silent features gazed, Then dropped the drapery and turned away - Wilt thou not rouse thee, pretty slumberer, say-? Forth from that couch a tender voice replies, Though motionless the form, and closed the eyes, ," Call me not back amid a world of pain, I would not drink its bitterness again: My soul hath tasted immortality, Unfading flowers are blooming now for me, No winter chill pervades my blest abode, The temple wherein smiles its maker, God - Iy eyes are opened to eternal day, Perennial blossoms fill my hand alway, I now repose upon a Saviour's breast, Where he hath suffered me to take my rest; For Jesus hath the sweet assurance given, ' Of such the kingdom is'-- my home is Heaven." INVITATION TO W. J. D. Come to the light of thy Northern sky, To the loveliest spot on earth- Call not our East wind harsh and chill- It blows from the land of thy birth.   MEMORIES OF A GRANDMOTHEJK.      117 Come where the trailing arbutus grows Sweet in the rocky glade, And where the fair anemone Adorns the quiet shade. Come where the rose and violet blend To form thy choice bouquet, - Thou lovest flowers for they speak to thee Of childhood's happy day. Come -I will sing the songs we loved When our life was young and free, When our native grove we together roved, Or sate by our grandsire's knee. Come, though I know thy searching eye Will mark upon my face, Many a line Time's reckless hand In passing has stayed to trace. Vigils and change'their shadows leave, Tears will in sorrow fall, Falsehood will wring the lightest heart, - 'Tis the darkest change of all; But beside me bounds a joyous thing, As thy sister was of yore, And I see in her my own bright youth, While-I quarrel with Time no more. Come - do not shrink from our varying sky, Come, and no more to part; No sun so warm as a smiling friend, No home like a sister's heart!   "8    MEMORIES OF A GRANDMOTHEK. THE SABBATH BELL. O, welcome to my weary heart, thou sacred Sabbath Bell! Thou movest holy memories within the spirit's cell; Again I join the peaceful train with slow yet willing feet, To mingle in communion sweet before the Mercy seat. While here a stranger pilgrim lone, thy tone gives back to me The voices loved, the faces kind, I ne'er may hear or see, The holy time, the bended brow, the spirit bowed in prayer, The seat, the 'book, the preacher's voice -affection used to share. O, Sabbath' Bell -sweet Sabbath Bell! how many a happy time, With cheerful step and purpose pure, 've heard thy pleasing chime; And though the dead and absent ones who sought thy courts with me, Are parted now where my fond eyes no more their faces see, I sometimes feel, as through the crowd so stranger-like I glide, The dead beloved are near me there, and walking by my side; And while I seek the God of all, of ages and of space, It seems my spirit foldeth them again in its embrace. There's many a tone of melody that steals upon the ear, And many songs by voices sweet, my heart doth love to hear, But nought can cast around my path so magical a spell, As thy inviting, soothing tones, thou solemn Sabbath Bell.   CHAPTER XVI. "The web of our life is of mingled yarn- good and ill together." "True love shows costhest when the means are scant; And in her reckoning, they abound who want." MY home in the city was now no longer dear to me.  In it I had closed the eyes of a husband and child, and around it I seemed to hear my own sighs repeated, and a sound as of dropping tears.  Each fold of the bed curtains held some past sorrow which could never be dispelled; and objects on which my eyes had so long rested during their melancholy vigils, were inseparably imbued and associated with that wretched- ness.  Retaining, therefore, such relics as were indispensable, I sought in an entire change of scene in a distant State, that tranquility which I needed; and for a while, surrounded by my precious children, I reposed v   .-   120   MEMORIES OF A GRANDMOTHER. --if not happily--at least in peace and health. Death and disease no more pursued my steps; but soon- alas, how soon Il- a grim, unwelcome visitant threw his shadow  over our threshold. Poverty assailed us. Preparations must be made for the breaking up of our household. The nest waso shaken for the eaglets to fly, and I was made to know that Life has its darts, as well as  Death.  One  of the brothers-twins in affection, though ,of dif- ferent names--left for a  course in the mercantile world, away from me; the other for a profession which his noble nature elevates and adorns--as, ascending step by step the ladder of , self-promotion, he now stands within one round of its summit, His pillow is made from the down of the alba- tross-while his dreams are of a home rendered happy by his care. It was a sad. day when we left our little cottage in B  . The following lines writ- ten during the sale of our furniture, will express the measure- of my regret:   MEMORIES OF A GRANDMOTHER.       121 THE AUCTION:    TO P---. They're bearing them away; my son, the relics bright and dear, Which we, in sweet security, have fondly cherished here; The couch whereon thou first wert laid, in feeble infancy, Is passing into other hands - all strangers unto me. The chair wherein thy sire reclined, whene'er with care opprest, The chair wherein thy sister slept, in peace upon my breast; The table where our merry games we nightly loved to play, ' The table for our social meal - all, all, have passed away. Those mirrors unto me no more shall give thy beaming face, Reflecting true thy sister's smile--her soft and winning grace; And other looks, pperchance less fair, less kindly given, than thine, Reflect hereafter from the glass, alas I no longer mine. And now they bear unto their homes, in heedless haste away, Those lamps, whose light so oft for us has shed a softened ray; 'Tis well;-another- light than this, be mine the charge to trim ' The lamp that shines and guides us all, through darkness, unto HM-, "   122    MEMORIES OF A GRANDMOTHER. Whose wisdom seeks the wayward heart to purify and bless, Who heeds the helpless orphan's cry, the widow's lone- liness. 'Tis painful thus to see them go--but heed it not, my. son, For such- is Life--its ties must all be severed, one by one; It is not for the dross itself, I shed these idle tears; It is that they have stood like friends, my company for years; And when association's links are rudely brokejin twain, The spirit will resign itself awhile to tears and pain. But all is o'er - the heavy tread of careless feet is gone, And we must rise, and with the world still mix and wander on; We taste not of the suffering, the bitterness and gall, Of Him who died for us) my child- who died for us and all. Then let us patiently submit, and meet our coming fate, Till bidden to that holy sea-t -that high, unchanging state - Where, unto those who faithful are, the happy call is given,. "Enter, thou purified - redeemed - to life secure in heaven-!" The departure of my    dear  boys, for  an indefinite period  of time, seemed. to   leave   MEMORIES OF A GRANDMOItgiK.   123 my heart in the condition of our ship, as, on our return from   the West Indies, we anchored at quarantine, after a tempestuous voyage.  The bulwarks and stancheons were torn away. The innocence and  cheerfulness of my little C --, who was named for the song of a bird, was sweet and consoling.   Her beautiful spirit of hopefulness and trust was my solace. Whatever befel, she had always a comfort in store. A   most devout prayer was once uttered, by this little girl, at the age of five years, after having heard us express much anxiety for a cousin at sea, as we were reading an account of a  severe gale  the ship  had encountered, where "one   hand was washed overboard."  I can  see her now, with. her little -night-cap tied under her chin, and her pretty hands  clasped, as she said, previous to retiring, "O, Lord, please take   care of my dear cousin B    , and don't wash his other hand overboard." This my   only daughter has been happily spared to me; and   the reader will readily pardon a mother's reminiscence of the recur-   124    MEMORIES OF A GRANDMOTHER. rence of one of her birth-days, as embodied in the following lines written on the occasion. CARROL.- THE BIRTH-DAY. I'm seventeen - I'm seventeen How beautiful it seems! Such happy, sunny memories, And such delightful dreams. My hair is brown as Smyrna's grape, My eyes are dark as sloes, To all who smile with kindly glance My heart with love o'erflows. I'm seventeen - bright seventeen! The world is gay and fair, And mid the polished happy throng,. I have a dear one there. My youth glides on in golden links Of joy's unbroken chain, Who would not wish as I am now Forever to remain? -No matter -'t was a slight mistake; The birth-day is not mine, But in another, I beheld My own glad morning shine;   MEMORIES OF A GRANDMOTHER.   125 My daughter - she is seventeen, And H I won't engage To say what is the point precise Of an uncertain age! I had left in my native city a deposit in the Savings Bank; but, advised  by those who wanted its use, and who offered double the amount of interest, I transferred  the whole into their hands, and lost it all! Then came the' need of immediate action. Paralyzed awhile, I sat in mute despondency -but my sons must be stimulated by their mother's example, and I rose' strong. I commenced, with the education of my own, that of the daughters of other parents. I   healed with the breath of  childhood a bruised and smitten heart. I, systematized life. I drew out my course--my method, and plan of action--and prayed earnestly for strength to meet the allotted struggle. My views of life, and my feelings thence- forward, may be indicated somewhat by the following effusions;.- the first written about the time of my greatest pecuniary destitution, and then other- when I had begun to see my 1n1   126    MEMORIES OF A GRANDMOTHiiK. way clear, as I thought, towards the purchase of a small home. THE TREE AND THE VINE. There stands at my window a withered tree, Its branches all hanging droopingly;- And in early spring, when rough March went by, I could hear its hollow and plaintive sigh - Seeming to say, "Who so lonely as I?" But a June sun smiled - and a tender vine Crept up, and around did its folds entwine; And where there waslittle of life to be seen, ws .ow a rich garment of living green- More fair than its own bright youth, I ween, At its foot there are roses in beautiful bloom, That send up their love in a sweet perfume; And you see not a sign of the faded tree - For it waves in the air as gracefully As in early days, while fresh and free. There was, thus, a time when my being was sad- Again has my spirit been joyous and glad; And as age comes on, I am willing to be As loveless as this shorn wasted tree, So that vines come and fondly entwine round me! "ThiS COTTAGE   FOR ME1" Wanted, to purchase a cottage ornee, Very small -just to answer for two, For two who remain to dispense the sweet joy Hospitality claims as her due.   MEMORIES OF A GRANDMOrTHK.      127 There must be a room for a friend - one or more, But the compass of each may be small, For the heart can expand in the lowly abode As free as in loftiest hall. There must be a room for my birds and my flowers, Where in spring I can station the nest Where my muse can awake to sweet fragrance and song, Or folding her wing be at rest. With a little tea-room- one small parlor will do, As there must be for me and my friend A pretty boudoir for quiet and talk, Where our books and our music may blend. The water - O that must be plenty and pure As fresh as the spirit within; French windows are best, and the kitchen must be As convenient and "neat as a pin." More than all, I would have six or eight ancient trees, But the cottage of course should be new; Well, perhaps I may find one upon an old place, With these patriarchs always in view. I must have the trees- they must guard me around, They inspire one with reverence and right; Where by day I can sometimes recline in their shade, And hear the winds through them at night. I should like a small stream, with its burden of song, As it ripples above its its dark bed, But I do not exact it as one of the things That I must have, as heretofore said.   128,   MEMORIES OF A GRANDMOTHEK. No matter how much of a shadow may dwell On the place, should there be many trees I can make my own sunshine, as many well know, And dispense it whenever I please. Should you, Mr. Editor, meet such a place, Just address me a line - I'm not far - And the cash shall be paid on possession thereof; Most sincerely your friend, A. M. E.   CHAPTER        XVII. ' The past is past! in solemn silence taking Alike the sunny and the rainy day, On the live altar of the fond heart breaking Full many an idol built on feet of clay. "The past is past! in faith and patience taking Its lessons, let us lay them on our hearts; The chain's attenuated links are breaking! Be earnest! use the present ere it parts!" SHOULD  the partiality   of friends be grati, fied, or the "faith, hope, and charity," of any be strengthened, by- the present imperfect but' truthful exhibition of events in the varied experience of one now     a " grandmother," her purpose in the publication will be- mainly answered. One more reminiscence or two, and these "Memories "-not, I      trust, of "a   wasted life?-- will be brought to a    conclusion. I can   recall no  period  when  I  was left to   endure  such  agony of suspense, as   that   130   MEMORIES OF A GRANDM0"UEs.  which occurred during the third year after my eldest son's departure for New Orleans. His letters were full of love and hope - until at last came one from  my brother, stating that my beloved 'child was ill of yellow fever; and that, although everything was being done that friendship, love and money could do, he felt it his duty to pre- pare me for the worst! O, what a blow was this I How, in a new shape came every affliction. Where could I fly for relief, but to the Mercy seat?   How could I pray? Not that he might be spared--because, probably by the time of the arrival of a letter--knowing too well the fearful, the rapid progress of that dreadful disease- he might be no longer among the living. How my heart bled, as I fervently strove to say, "Thy will be done!"  I could not sleep-- I could not eat.   For eight days my own life seemed to be departing in anguish. One well-remembered Sabbath afternoon, while a slow rain was falling, I went out alone to the church nearest the house.  It was a large building, the lofty arches of which were already darkening.  I saw   the   MEMORIES OF A GRANDMOTlHER.   131 preacher, but his voice I did not hear.  I had come there to pray.  I felt that there my prayers might mingle with those of others, and find a readier acceptance than if sent forth in my own weak faith--borne up, it might be, by  a stronger faith, and thus recognized at the mercy-seat, and I pitied- for I was sorely suffering. On raising my head, I saw the scene behind the pulpit- it was Calvary! The painting was on glass - and the most remarkable and magical in its effect, as produced by the, light without' of anything I ever beheld. The organ's peal and the swelling anthem were lost to  me, in  my  contemplation of that solemn   scene.  The sun was sinking below the waves that washed the distant shore.  Its deep orange hue reddened a cross, against which a ladder leaned.  There was no weeping Mary at its foot, no Saviour suf-- fering above. All was solitude. It seemed as if He who had died thereon had just been borne away.   My head sank upon my hands. Could I bear the cross about to be  laid on me.   I raised my head;-the sun gone, and I  could see the ladder no more. The cross   132   MEMORIES OF A GaANDMOTHf'K. was dimly visible yet;-but as the light faded from without, so darkness came over the picture. I prayed that this cup might pass  by untasted - this - of losing my beloved son; and as I again covered my face and prayed, I trust I was able to say, "o Thy will be done!" I looked up once more, but calm.   The cross itself had disappeared, and the preacher's: form  alone remained. The following day, news came of my son's restoration to health! This- son it was, who has, since, by his happy marriage, given to me a daughter, in place, as it were, of one early mourned and lost; and to whom,- though personally un- known, I addressed the following lines, on her wedding-day; - and the same son whose portrait gave occasion to the other effusion, which by particular request is here inserted. TO S--, ON HER WEDDING DAY. Thy gentle voice I have not heard, Ne'er seen thy smiling face, Nor watched as others watch thy form So fairy4ike in grace.   MEMORIES OF A GRANDMOTHE0t.      133 But fancy loves to bring thee near, While faithful memory A precious treasure laid away, Again restores to me. Long years are gone, long weary years - MBine was a garden fair, Of choicest buds all opening forth;   ) One roseate thing was there. And O, such perfume on my sense, Such twining round my heart I Of all I hoped or loved or felt,' It formed the sweetest part. I trained with care the tender bud To me divinely given, But rendered early back His own, A sinless soul to Heaven. 'And thou perchance art come to us To take her vacant seat, 'To be, where all was spiritual, The visible and sweet! I thank thee - thou hast won a love Before unshared with me; But be not saddened when I say He loved ere he saw thee! I was his first love, thou shalt be The all in all to him and me. ON RECEIVING MY SON'S PICTURE. O, could I lure thee back again,.my' son, From coming manhood, to the gentle one Who knew no joy beyond a mother's breast, No other pillow for his placid rest I! 12   134    MEMORIES OF A GRANDMOITE'I. O for those days of lovely infancy - Those pure young prayers beside a mother's knee, Those trusting eyes so watchful of my face, Those winning gambols, full of glee and grace! Thou wert my dove, that nestled by my side, Thy health my care, thy charms my only pride. But now thou soarest with an eagle's flight, And sailest boldly far beyond my sight. Thou wert the nursling of my choice parterre, The frailest, sweetest, whitest blossom there. But now thou standest like a noble tree, Whose branches stoop to shade and shelter me I How in those eyes so tender once and meek, Doth pride and power and wild ambition speak! And back those locks are pressed above the brow; Ah - who can find a curl to sever now! Close cut and dark the hair once gold in hue, And named a gray, those eyes of baby blue; 'The lip that knew and knows not crime or guile, Now in its curve hath more a scorn than smile; And over all, where once was softest grace, A stern defiance hath usurped its place; As if the heart, secure in its own truth, Were glad to sink in manhood peaceful youth; As if he wooed a dim futurity, And sought the storm of Life's tempestuous sea. Boy -my heart trembles as I view thee here, And I bedew thine image with a tear; For who, O who, thy stirring soul shall guide, Now thou hast left thy watchful parent's side? Who curb the spirit bounding free and wild? What voice like mine to check or soothe my child? O, Heavenly Father- Thou didst give to me This gem, whose worth I offered up to Thee - Early to Thee for him my vow was paid, And I the offering on Thine altar laid,   MEMORIES OF A GRANDMOTHEI.      135 That though in pride and grateful joy elate, I would to Thee his being consecrate; So that the fragrant bud thus kindly given, Should blossom forth in incense up to heaven. Father I direct him in Life's devious way; Be Thou his own selected choice - his stay; Shield him! O Father, from the tempter's snare, That spreads around the beauteous every where From moral death, O, keep his spirit pure - Firm as this look, be his clear soul secure. My morn was bright- no cloud obscured my sky, Rich sunlight seemed to gild my destiny, But e'er the noon had risen o'er my head Its fondest visions had forever fled; And now, as evening's shadows dim, I see My path were rayless but for trust in Thee;  And thus in confidence, I leave my son To Thee, the wisest, tenderest, Holiest One. The other pieces, which follow, are    of a somewhat later date.    The short one speaks for itself, in its humble  way.  The  longer one, if it requires no particular explanation, may still justify, in its introduction, an affec- tionate allusion to a  beloved -uncle, B- B    , (the husband  of one  of my many aunts,) who had endeared himself to    us  all by his excellent qualities of mind and heart, and was well known, as a     public man, for his  various  benevolent  and  philanthropic   136    MEMORIES OF A GRANDMOT'IEI. labors.  The " hoary head" was to him    "a crown  of glory;"- and    that head, which, prompted by a genial spirit was ever "devis- ing liberal things," now reposes, remote from the scenes of his most active usefulness -   in dust at Mount Auburn. The romance of "My Uncle's Dream,      as thus imperfectly narrated, seems almost of a piece with the "Hashish" vision, recorded by Bayard Taylor. "AMENT FOR PERCY. But that I know the goodness whose protection O'ershadoweth ravens as they feebly cry, And that his holy attribute, affection, Gives us assurance of his sympathy - I should not dare to yield my soul to sadness, While daily mercies round my path I see; Yet ah, I cannot find the tone of gladness While my whole heart mourns, sweetest bird, for thee! For me no more my window-seat adorning, Will thy gay plumage with its green leaves blend; Or thy clear, gladsome notes at early morning, Proclaim thyself my true and watchful friend. In thy bright eye, I saw another's glowing, And when caressingly I called to thee, It seemed another voice with thine was flowing And though so far away, he answered me!    MEMORIES OF A GRANDMOTHER.      187 Is it a sin to let the heart go weeping, When thou wert not a soul that we deplore, And the remembrance in our bosom keeping, Of a fair bird we loved, and nothing more? But ah, with thee a golden chain is broken; Thou wert the clasp - thy name the magic spell Of a dear absent one thou wert the token, No more reminding us, where'er we dwell. Alas, alas! upon Life's stormy ocean, As I am drifted with the surge along, No more to still my bosom's sad commotion, Shall come the music o? thy daily song. No -'t is not sin, the sorrowing memory cherished, When things we dearly loved have passed away; And thou, sweet bird, that hathforever perished, Art wept and honored in this simple lay. MY UNCLE'S DREAM. My Uncle he sat in his easy chair, With his flowing locks of snowy hair; His Indian gown was of richest hue, And his dreams - Oh! I wish their spell I knew, For his eye was mild, and his lip was calm, As he sent forth wreaths from his long meerschaum - 'Tis no wonder his dreams were so fine and free, For his pipe was of amber and froth of the sea - Of the foam of the sea where the gale had swept, And the sea-bird's tear as she wailed and wept. 12*   138    MEMORIES OF A GRANDMO'tiEKt. Like the Angel of Sleep, with its pinions spread, The smoke wreaths waved o'er my uncle's head; And I saw, as the light of his eye grew dim, That the angel had fastened its spell on him. He did not sleep, but 'twas plain to see Was as nearly asleep as man could be. Silent I watched, and I thought he dreamed, And of pleasant things; for to me it seemed That I saw a smile o'er his features play, Through the misty wreaths that around him lay. I made no noise, but I moved about With cat-like tread, till his pipe went out; When, looking around, with much surprise, He stretched himself as he rubbed his eyes, And said, "I have dreamed, and my dreams, if told, Would rival the fairy-tales of old; For strange are the places where I have been, And marvellous sights I there have seen. "I thought, as I sat in my easy chair, That a fairy spirit, with beauty rare, Appeared, and spoke -' Would you like,' said she, 'To travel afar, over earth and sea? I am a spirit, and doomed to dwell In the meerschaum's bowl, by a mystic spell; And never for me may the spell be broke, Except by the warmth of the fragrant smoke. Then, while this lasts, may I wander free? To my native home 'neath the dark blue sea; Come with me. there, and thou shalt behold Stores of treasure as yet untold; And the choicest of these I will give to thee Whene'er from my prison thou makest me free.'   MEMORIES OF A GRANDMOTHER.      139 "'I will go!' I cried, let us not delay'- 'It is well,' said she, 'but a moment stay,' She waved her hand, as the word she spoke, And a curling wreath of the rising smoke Assumed the form of a winged steed - 'Now mount,' said she, 'and we'll try his speed!'- 'Twas said, 'twas done, and away we flew With lightning speed, and the next I knew I stood with her, where the rolling wave Made its ceaseless moan o'er the ocean cave, And the countless treasures of ocean spread Before me there, on its rocky bed.  "'Now choose, said she, for thyself, but haste, For the smoke of the meerschaum will quickly waste, And soon as its fire shall cease to burn, Must I to my home in its bowl return.' I gladly obeyed, and with covetous eyes, In fancy I grasped the glittering prize; Yet fearing that aught but the best I should take, I lingered, in doubt what selection to make- At length, toward a mass of the richest and rarest, I stretched out my hand and was taking the fairest; When lo! in an instant, from slumber I woke, And all my bright visions had ended in smoke." I remember   how, often,  in  the  clear, shadowless time of girlhood, during    summers at O --   , I have joined   a party to seek the beach, for an hour's pleasure in battling and coaxing, dancing   and singing  with the ocean waves.   Our feet were tender and bare /   "O   MEMORIES OF A GRANDMOTHER. --but it was far from unpleasant to creep over the slimy pebbles in their bed; and wild indeed was the delight with which we all joined hands, to sink and rise, sink and rise, with the plashing surge, as it rolled and tumbled toward us, speckling our uncapt heads with foam. There was ever an anxious sensation about my heart--a fearful wish to try again-- a breathing of hysterical sighs, no lower than the bosom, just where the waters came - and the immense sheet, of dark, uncertain sea, would seem to fascinate me almost into a long, last plunge. Something as I then felt, I now feel, in presenting this little volume to -the world. My heart sinks as I fear its judgment.  I rise and fall - I court its notice, yet I dread its contact ;-for after all the changes of an eventful life, even with these white lines upon my temples, there yet lingers but timidly now- the one   ambition, the desire of early days- I still wish to be beloved! In concluding this imperfect memoir, I would say, that had the great wish of my life only been that I might become worthy to   MEMORIES OF A GRANDMOTHER.   141 be loved, perhaps my cup  had  not been so often dashed from my lips, just as my soul was becoming lost to a sense of its own unworthiness, in the excess of its enjoy ment. I have been permitted to know myself an object of the tenderest regard, and left to see how impotent, without Divine grace, are the strongest earthly ties. Thrice have I tasted the bitterness of death, through that of those dearer than myself;- and once, obedient to circumstances, I have been made to turn my back upon an idol of clay, while that idol yet lived. But enough  of this personal narrative. Whatever other interest attaches to my life must be gathered  incidentally from other sources. If whatever I have said, or done, may have the desired effect of "giving ardor to virtue, or confidence to truth," I shall be abundantly satisfied. For any faults of matter or manner, I crave humbly the reader's forgiveness ;--believing, with an observing writer of two centuries ago -the learned Dr. Donne, Dean of St. Paul's-that "none write so ill, that he gives not something exemplary to follow, or fly."     VALUABLE WORKS PUBLISHED BY GOULD AND LINCOLN, 59  WASHNGTON    STREIET, :BOSTON. MOTHERS OF THE WISE AND GOOD. By JABE BumNS, DD. 16mo, cloth, 75 cts. A sketch of the mothers of many of the most eminent men of the world, and show- ng how much they were indebted to maternal influence for their greatness and excel- enrce of character. THE  EXCELTTENT   WOMAN, as Described in the Book of Proverbs. With an Introduction, by Rev W. B. SPiAGuE, D D. Splen- did Illustrations. 12mo, cloth, 1,00. a This elegant volume is an appropriate and valuable "Gift Book," for the hus- band to present the wife, or the child the mother. COWPER'S   COMPLETE   POETICAL   WORKS, with a Life, and Critical Notices of his Writings. Elegant Illustrations. 16mo, cloth, 1,00. SCOTT'S POETICAL WORKS.      With Life, and elegant Illus- trations. 16mo, cloth, 1,00. MLTON'S POETICAL WORKS.       With Life, and elegant Illus- trations. 16mo, cloth, 1,00. - The above Poetical Works are of uniform size and style, printed on fine paper, lear type, with elegant illustrations richly bound in full gilt, and plain. Their sxceedingly LOW PRICE renders them the most desirable of any of the numerous ditions of these authors' works, now in the market. HE MARRIAGE    RING; or, How    to Make Home Happy. JoiHr ANGELL JAcES. Beautifully Illustrated edition. 16mo, cloth, gilt. 75 cts. WORKS BY HUGH WrTT Ti,. MY SCHOOLS AND SCHOOLMASTERS; or, the Story of my Education. AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY, by HuaG  MTv&R. With a full length Portrait of the Author. 12mo, cloth, 1,25. A personal narrative of a deeply interesting and instructive character, concerning me of the most remarkable men of the age. rHE TWO RECORDS; the Mosaic and the Geological.       16mo, cloth, 25 cts. FIRST IMPRESSIONS OF ENGLAND AND ITS PEOPLE With a fine Engraving of, the Author. 12mo; cloth, 1,00. e- A thrillingly interesting and very instructive book of travels; presenting the nost perfectly lifelike views ofEngland and its people, to be found in the language. PILGRIMAGE   TO  EGYT; a Diary of Explorations on the Nile, Observations Illustrative of the Manners, Customs, and Institu- tions ot the People, etc. By Hon. J. V. C. SMTH, Mayor of the City of Boston. Numerous elegant Engravings. 12mo, cloth, 1,25. CHE CRUISE OF THE     NORTH   STAR; Excursion made by Mr. Vanderbilt's Party in the Steam Yacht, to England, Russia, Den- mark, France, Spain, Italy Malta, Turkey, Madeira, etc. By Rev. JOHN OVERTON CHOULES, D. b. Elegant Illustrations. Likenesses of Mr. Vanderbilt and Capt. Eldridge. 12mo, cloth, gilt backs and sides, 1.50.  :HAMBERS' HOME BOOK; or Pocket Miscellany.       Contain- ing a Choice Selection of Interesting and Instructive Reading, for the Old and the Young. Six' Volumes. 16mo, cloth, 8,00. "FE' AND CORRESPONDENCE OF JOHN FOSTER. Editd by J. E. RYAND. Two volumes in one, 700 pages. 12mo, cloth, 1,25. /    VALUABLE WORKS FOR THE YOUNG.   THE GUIDING STAR; or, the Bible God's Message. By LouISA PAYSON HoPKINS. With a Frontispiece. 16mo, cloth, 50 cts. An exceedingly interesting and instructive work for youth, on the evidences of Christianity. HOW  TO BE A LADY.    A Book for Girls. By Rev. H. NEW- COMB. Cloth, gilt, 50 cts. HOW  TO BE A MAN. A Book for Boys. By Rev. H. NEW-. COMB. Cloth, gilt, 50 cts. ANECDOTES FOR BOYS.      Entertaining Anecdotes and Nar. ratives, illustrative of Principles and Character. By H. NEwcOMB. 18mo, cloth, gilt, 42 cts. ANECDOTES FOR GIRLS. Entertaining Anecdotes and Nar- ratives, illustrative of Principles and Character. By H. NEWCOMB. 18mo, cloth, gilt, 42 cts. YOUNG AMERICANS ABROAD; or, Vacation in Europe; a Tour through Great Britain, France, Holland, Belgium, Germany and Switzerland. By JOHN OVERTON CHOUiES, D. D., and his PUPILS. With elegant Illustrations. 16mo, cloth, 75 cts This is a highly entertaining work, embracing more real information, such as every one wishes to know about Europe, than any other book of travels ever published. THE ISLAND HOME; or, the Young Castaways.       By CHRIS- TOPHER ROMAUNT, Esq. With elegant Illustrations 16mo, cloth, 75 cts. A new and exceedinly captivating "Robinson Crusoe " story. PLEASANT PAGES FOR YOUNG PEOPLE; or, Book of Home Education and Entertainment. By S. PnouT NEWOOMBE. With numer- ous Illustrations. 16mo, cloth, 75 cts. The great variety of subjects presented, consisting of Moral Lessons, Natural His- tory, History, Travels, Physical Geography, Object Lessons, Drawing and Perspective, Music, Poetry, &c., and withal, so skully treated as to make truth simple and attrac- tive, renders it Xa admirable family book for winter evenings and summer days. CLINTON. A Book for Boys.    By WILLIAM SIMONDS, Author of "Boy's Own Guide," "Friendly Words," etc. With numerous fine Illustrations. 16mo, cloth, 63 cts. Or A very captivating and instructive book for the young. THE AMERICAN STATESMAN; or, Illustrations of the Life and Character of DANIEL WEBSTER ; for the Entertainment and Instruc- tion of American Youth. By the Rev. JosEPH BANVARD. With numer- ous Illustrations. 16mo, cloth, 75 cts.   S RT TS OF AMRPWRTCAN HSTORIES. BY JOSEPH BANVARD. PLYMOUTH AND THE PILGRIMS; or, Incidents of Adventure in the History of the First Settlers. With Illustrations. 16mo, cloth, 60 cts. NOVELTIES OF THE NEW     WORLD.   The Adventures and Discoveries of the First Explorers of North America. With numerous Illustrations. 16mo, cloth, 60 cts. ROMANCE OF AMERICAN HSTORY; or, an Acoount of the Early Settlement of North 'Carolina and Virginia; embracing a Nar- rative of the Tragic Incidents connected with the Spanish Settlement at St. Augustine, the French Colonies at Roanoke, and the English Plantation at Jamestown; the Captivity of Captain John Smith, and the interesting Adventures of the youthful Pochahontas. With numerous Illustrations. 16mo, cloth, 60 cts.      
         
       
   
