
    ----CITATION----
        Anonymous. The Romance of an Irish Girl, or, Life in Two Worlds .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC7665
    ----FULL TEXT----
         
      
         
            The romance of an Irish girl, or, Life in two worlds 
            
               THE
ROMANCE OF AN IRISH GIRL;
OR,
LIFE IN TWO WORLDS.
~
AN~4UTOBIOGRAPJ1Y~
WITH AN INTRODUCTION BT A LADY OF NEW YORK.
NEW YORK:
I~ERBY &amp; JACKSON, 498 BROADWAY.
1860.

LI

k

S


I~UI3LISIIERS' NOTICE.

t

ZKT3EUD according to Act of Congress, in the year 1860, by
DERBY &amp; JACKSON,
isa the Clerk's 011cc of the District Court of the United States for the Southern District of New York.
W. Ii. Tassors, Stereotyper.                                   Gao. RUsUZLL &amp; Co., Printe,,,

THE somewhat remarkable statements and incidents which
make up this volume must be their own justification and
defence. The publishers are assured that, in the 'main, the
whole narrative is a real experience, whose truthfulness will be
attested by many parties in New York, Montreal and elsewhere,
who are cognizant of the history of the heroine of the auto-
biography. If true, it certainly is a strange revelation, giving
lights and shades of society and politics abroad which do not
enter into the received records: if nut true, it is at least a fic-
tion which has novelty enough, in its real Irish communicative-
ness and recklessness of "artistic" requisitions, to render it a
readable book.


I

INTRODUCTORY.
lioMA~c1~ is not necessarily fiction. Some lifeexperiences
have come to our knowledge whose novelty avas more startling
than any fiction-more romantic than any professed romance
which we ever read. hence, when we are made acquainted
with the strange revelations of some unusual life, we are not
too rigidly indisposed to lend a listening ear, and do not turn
away with impatience from a narrative which merely ~eem~ in-
crudible. "Jane Eyre" challenge(I remark; for, being a pro-
fessed autobiography, the critical public wcre indisposed to give
its statements credence; yet, when Mrs. Gaskell told us all the
circumstances of Charlotte Bronte's life, we were made aware
of the not exaggerated pain, passion and pathos of her book. So
of other works ~ve might name: though professedly written as fic-
tion they still are life-transcripts, heart-histories, most truthful
where the dramatic interest is most intense, most re~il where the
romance is most remarkable.
When the manuscript of the following hook was first sub-
rnitted to our inspection, the impression made upon our mind wam
one of incredulity; for, though it did not seem at all impossi-
ble that such events as are herein narrated should have tran~
spired, it still appeared to us unlikely that they should have hap-
pened. The nature of the events upon which the whole avork
depends for its interest, took on the air of ?sflneccs8ary moment


v1

INTRODUCTORY.

I

and the incidents seemed too important for the accomplishment
of the end at length attained. But, an interview with the
author-her narrative of a life history which she had painfully
been living for years-the evidence which she adduced con-
firmatory of' her statements-tended again to direct attention
to her narrative; and, with the new light upon it which her
personal explanations shed, we were inclined to undertake the
editorial supervision necessary to fit the manuscript for the
press.
That supervision has been restricted to the preparation of
good printer's copy, rather than directed to the reconstruction of
the narrative. We found the work so thoroughly individual, the
scenes and persons so evidently from life, the incidents so in
keeping with the unmistakably Irkh character of the book, that
we deemed it best to give the "romance" full expression; thus
to let the volume tell its story as its author would have repeated
it from her lips, had she been called upon so to do.
The reader will be inclined to question some of the senti-
ments and revelations of the work, as being of a nature which
calls for further proof of authenticity before their admission
to a full belief; and lie will, perhaps, ejaculate "Impossible I"-
"Improbable 1" at some of the predicaments of its leading char-
acters. But, let him (or her) reflect upon what we have said in
the first paragraph of this Introductory, and seek to read with
a mind not pre-fortified against the novel statements and
scenes of the Irish Girl's story; for its "romance," we are sure,
has in it too much of fact to warrant its repudiation either as
an autobiography, or as a story of life as it is on two con-
tinents.                                     F. F. B.

THE ROMANCE OF AN IRISH GIRL;
OR, LIFE IN TWO WORLDS.
ChAPTER I.
Th 1824, a child was presented for baptism in Benz
mare church, Ferinanagh County, Ireland. In her
baptism, wherein she was made "a member of Christ,
a child of God and an inheritor of the Kingdom of
Heaven," the little one received the name of Marion
Wallace Cunningham, from her god-parents, who
also promised and vowed three things in her name:
First, that she would renounce the devil and all his
works; second, that she would believe in all the
articles of the Christian faith; and, thirdly, that she
would do God's holy will and commandments, and
walk in the same all the days of her life.
The ceremony of Marion's baptism was conducted
by the IRev. II. Hamilton, who was assisted by the
curate and clerk-the latter recording the vows,
while the former held the bowl from which the water
was taken- for the baptism. The child's godfathers
were Sir henry Gordon, and Lord Charles Elia; and
her godmothers, Lady May, and Miss hamilton.

I


8        THE ROMANCE OF AN IRISH GIRL;                               OR~ LIFE IN TWO WORLDS.         9

Lord Enniskellen and lady, and Lord Elia and lady
also stood as sponsors. Nor was this touching occa-
sion free from the "sin of envy, of malice, and all
uncharitableness." Huston, the curate, had been
requested by Lord Elia to be present and hold the
bowl-not as a compliment, as the simple curate
believed; but rather to exact a menial service from
a person whom he held in unmerited contempt.
The reason of this dislike was variously accounted
for. Some thought it arose from the old lord's hatred
toward the Irish; and Huston was an Irishman.
Others scrupled not to say that Elia dreaded the
knowledge Huston possessed of his private character.
*         Be that a~ it may, Ehia never attended church when
Huston preached, which was every alternate Sabbath.;
and protected himself from the observation of the
Irish when he went to hear hamilton, by occupying
a wing built by himself, with an outside entrance, and
stained glass partition through which lie could see
the minister, and move with the service, without
himself being seen. It was quite true that Elia's
disgust at the Irish was such that he could not hear
theni spoken of without losing his patience ;nor bear
their looking at him without being angry.
Some time after the christening of Marion, his
irritability was increased tenfold by a difficulty which
took place in his own family, under the following
circumstances:
Ills son, Lord Charles Ella, had attempted to abuse
the person of his mother's maid, Mary Foxvler; and
had laid himself liable to be transported for life, if
*          she could get justice. To prevent any such conse~

quence, Lord Elia had her confined in the castle,
where she was to be kept until she would consent to
be put on board a ship bound to America, leaving
her parents under the impression that she had eloped.
Mary refused to do this thing, resolving to trust in
God, and let the worst come, rather than thus will-
fully afflict her parents; and her firmness finally
brought its reward.
Lord Elia's steward was the only servant who
knew what had become of her, and he had strict
orders to allow her only as much food as would keep
her from perisliing-an injunction lie secretly took
the liberty of disobeying; but he could not take off
the chains her master had locked on her limbs to
procure her submission. Mary's pei ~istency, and
some compunction of conscience from having so
lately taken a sponsor's vows-both lie and his son-
made Elia more willing that Mary should get safely
out of the country; not that he cared so much for
the immorality of his son's deed, but that he feared,
should the affair conic to Lord Cunninghani's ears,
his lordship would feel insulted, and perhaps take the
part of the helpless girl they were so cruelly pei'se-
cuting. In the meantime, Mary's sufferings had
become so intense that her moans had begun to
attract attention, causing much excitement among
the servants. It was unsafe to keep her any longer
in her present condition; kill her he dare not;
release her he dare not; what was to be done? his
eldest son had been banished on board a transport
ship, for shooting young Tom Arsdale, son of Gen.
Arsdale; but 1w was an equal; to be prosecuted by
1*


10       THE ROMANCE OF AN IRISH GIRL,;

OR~ LIFI~ IN TWO WORLDS.          11

Mary, a peasant girl, was quite another thing. "A
beggar's brat! outrageous! he wouldsendherto-.-?"
But, he thought, she may be more humble by this
time; at a11 events he would see and talk with her.
Accordingly he bad her brought through a dark pas-
sage to a private room; but her suffering and her
resolution combined, gave her so ferocious an appear-
ance that the old lord believed her insane, and had
her remanded to her prison. He now felt confident
that she was incapable of doing him much harm,
still it was desirable to have her out of the way. His
first move was to discharge his steward, and offer him
five thousand pounds sterling to take her out of Ire.
land in two weeks' time.
The steward, Thomas McLain, with well assumed
reluctance at length consented to oblige his master
by undertakiI~g the commission. A draft on the bank
of Liverpool was put in his hands, and his next care
was to inform Mary of his plans, and counsel her to
hold herself in readiness to be restored to freedom;
for, as soon as he could see her parents and bring her
their consent to a marriage with him, he should
return to liberate her.
A few hours longer, and McLain had brought to the
poor captive, whose parents had not been informed
of her real situation, the necessary approval, and
about the hour of midnight, the marriage ceremony
was pronounced by a Wesleyan Methodist minister
in presence of Lord and Lady Elia, making Mary the
wife of Thomas McLain. The poor bride's appear-
ance so affected Lady Elia, that she sickenened and
fainted at the sight; for she had loved her pretty

maid, and had given a promise to her mother that she
should be kindly cared for in her hands; alas, how
was she crushed and broken, body and spirit!
As soon as the ceremony was over, Thomas hurried
away his wife to the house of the officiating minister,
where he had permission to leave her until the next
day. Proceeding as rapidly as possible, he procured
a warrant for the arrest of Lord Elia and his son, for
abusing the person of Mary Fowler. It was neces-
sary to go to Rev. II. llaniilton, rector of that parish,
and also justice of the peace, to get the warrant signed.
This Mr. hamilton refused to do, so great is the awe
in which the Irish clergy hold themselves of the aris-
tocracy. lie went next to the rector of Mana parish,
who also refused, because Elia sometimes honored
him by coming to hear him preach, when the odious
Huston was preaching in Benmare. But McLain,
who was not to be baffled, determined to consult
Daniel O'Connell, then very successfully practising
law. He had an interview with him. Just after see-
ing O'Connell, he was met and recognized as Elia's
steward by Lord Cunningham, who was about to give
him an errand to his master; but Thomas interrupted
him by saying he was no longer a servant at the
castle.
"How so, my boy ~" said Lord Cunningham; "is
anything wrong with your master ?"
Thomas then told him what had passed, and what
he was trying to do. "Let O'Connell alone," said his
lordship, "I will fix this matter for you ;" and, accord-
ingly~ wrote a note immediately to the Lord Lieute-
nant, telling Thomas to carry it, and to take his wife


12       TIlE ROMANCE OF AN IRISH GIRL;                                    OR, LIFE IN TWO WORLDS.

12

alon~ and if that failed to procure him justice, to
let him know, and he would see 'what further could
be done.
Thus befriended, the grateful fellow turned away,
muttering blessings; and hastening' to Mary, made
known to her his great fortune in having found so
influential a friend. They were soon on their way to
Dublin in good spirits, for though Mary was still suf-
fering from the wounds made by chains upon her
limbs, she felt happy in again being free and in the
prospect of obtaining redress for her cruel wrongs.
In three days they reached Dublin, where, according
to instructions, they presented themselves to his lord-
ship and delivered Lord Cunningham's letter.
Lord Fowler, then Lord Lieutenant of Ireland, was
a great aristocrat, entertaining for Cunningham the
most perfect friendship and confidence, and was
always subject to his influence. He was, too, cruel
and severe, but condemned that kind of cruelty that
Mary had suffered. lie questioned her very closely,
and finally gave orders for the arrest of Lord Ehia
and son, commanding that they should be placed in
close confinement in the county jail. He afterward
wrote to Lord Cunningham requesting him to see fair
play in the business, and assured McLain that he
need not banish himself from Ireland unless he pre-
ferred to do so.
Having accomplished more than they had expected,
Mary and Thomas left Dublin for the home of Mr.
John Fowler, Mary's fat1' ~m., grateful to God, Lord
Cunningham and the Lord Lieutenant. Mary's
health was much improved, and in two days the

13

young couple reached her father's where great pre-
parations were being made for their 'reception.
Friends and neighbors, as well as the family, were
waiting to congratulate them, and it is to be doubted
if in more aristocratic cirdes more delicacy of feeling
would have been ~shown, than was exhibited by these
poor and homely neighbors while witnessing the
meeting between the parents and family of the bride,
and the bride herself But the embracing and con-
gratulations over between these, the swelling hearts
of the waiting company found eXJ)ressiou at last in
tears and hand-pressures. Even the Romans, as they
are called, had red eyes on this occasion, for enough
of Mary's story had transpired to fill their breasts
with pity and indignation.


14       THE ROMANCE OF AN IRISH GulL;                                    OR~ LIFE IN TWO WORLDS.        15

ChAPTER II.
POOR degraded Ireland! Poor sons and daughters
of oppression and misrule; their honest tears, inspired
the half ludicrous desire to furnish them with some-
thing better than a dirty and ragged sleeve on which
to dry their moistened cheeks, and streaming eyes!
So felt Mr. Fowler, who had little in common with
these people, except poverty; and had his house been
larger, a feast had been prepared for his sympathiz-
ing neighbors, who now, after a hearty hand-shake
all around, returned to their homes, leaving the re-
united family to talk over their past and future to-
gether.
A few quiet days passed, when M~Laiu was unex-
pectedly summoned to Dublin, by a command of the
Lord Lieutenant. This command gave Mary some
apprehension on her husband's account, as she still
f9ared the power of Lord Elia; and her distress so
much increased with reflection that she determined to
accompany him, at all hazards. Her mother and
brothers, fearing for her health under any renewed
excitement, insisted in keeping her company, which
they did; and the little party journeyed to Dublin
with sad hearts, having visions of dungeons before
their eyes, thinking that lords were beings in whom
the poor could confide but little.
An accident to Mrs. Fowler, which occurred by the
upsetting of the stage, compelled the mother to ro-

I-

main upon th9 way, and added to Mary's distress, at
the same time it deprived her of the comfort and sup
port of this parent's needed presence; so that, with
her alarm and shattered nerves, Mary was truly in a
state bordering on insanity by the time she arrived in
Dublin. Albert Fowler, brother of Mary, though
he partpok of her apprehension, advised McLain to
see the Lord Lieutenant, at Once, and, by ascertaining
the cause of the summons, put an end to the suspense
of the terrified girl. Thomas, who had good reasons
for dreading the interview, caine into the presence of
his lordship with undisguised agitation: Lo! the
Lord Lieutenant of Ireland trembles before the pea-
sant! A glass of wine to each, however, restores,
somewhat, their mutual composure, and his lordship,
with much kindness of address, contrives to put his
humbler companion once more at his ease.
"Can you tell me anything of your wife's father ~
asked his lordship with much interest.
"Very little indeed, your honor, save that he is
Mr. John Fowler, arid a thrue gintleman."
At the name of John Fowlei', his lordship gave a
perceptible start, and proceeded to interrogate Thomas
more closely. But he, being really ignorant of the
subject upon which he was~questioned, and feeling
anxious for Mary, begged to be excused, promising to
send in his stead a son of Mr. Fowler, who was then
in Dublin.
"Ah! exclaimed his lordship, "then do so iinme-
diately." Thomas returned to Mary and Albert with
a lighter heart-at once informing the latter what he
had promised for him, and assuring him there was


16       THE ROMiNCE OF AN IRISH GIRL;
nothing to fear. But Albert, who remembered that
his father always avoided any communication with
any one concerning his family affiUrs, was a good deal
troubled in spirit about this inevitable catechism
which he was to undergo, as well as exercised with
curiosity concerning the motive of it. A fear beset
him that some disclosure would be. made affecting his
father's honor, and he felt that both for his father's
sake and his own, he did not wish the discovery made.
It was, therefore, with no vei'y enviable sensations
that he found himself in the dreaded presence.
At the first glimpse of the boy's face, his lordship
involuntarily uttered the name of John Fowler! and
sprang forward to meet him.
"My name is Albert," lie said, between diffidence
and surprise, at this unlocked for demonstration.
"Albert ~ ejaculated the old man, sinking into a
seat, quite overpowered with emotion. "Albert, my
own name! Boy, tell me something of your father
-of his parentage-his fortunes-his present pros-
perity."
Filled with surprise, Albert proceeded to relate all
that was known to him: that his father had quarrelled
with his relatives early in life, since which time no
intercourse had passed between them-that even his
children knew nothing about their relations, but only
were aware of the great fear their father had, that
they might sometime become known to Iiiem-aiid
that he entertained a great dislike to the aristocracy.
"So lie is unforgiving still," muttered the old man.
"Is he yet angry with his friends-with his father ?"
he asked, eyeing Albert wistfully.

OR, LIFE IN Two WORLDS.

"I never heard him speak in anger," replied Ak.
bert, "but have heard him say, 'a parent who would
misuse a child to please a heartless social sentinient,
or whiowould sell his children for the approbation of a
corrupt aristocracy, would not be likely to prove a
true friend to any, not even to his children's children,
and I have always, suspected that to be the reason
why lie avoided his connections;~tliougli I do not know
that his connections are aristocratic, or that they ever
oppressed the poor, as lie says the aristocracy do."
The turn the conversation was taking, rather added
to the nervousness of his lordship, and, without fur-
thor explanation, lie dismissed Albert, promising to
see him the next day.
It was a painful fact that Lord Fowler had under-
takei~ a serious trial of his own strength of character,
in to right wrongs he had himself commit-
ted, so long ago that the memory of them was pass-
ing away from the minds of all except those most
nearly involved; and he was conscious of wanting
time for self examination before committing himself
further in the matter. Th~ old pride and obstinacy
arose within him, as he .thought of humbling himself
before his long-banished son, and acknowledging a
tether's affection for the disobedient child. lie had
set resentment in the contest against feeling and duty,
and tried to strengthen the side of resentment in vain.
He was, of late, contiflually vanquished by the weak-
ness of old age, and the longing again to be surrounded
by his own kindred and blood. Many had been
the sorrows his earlier management of his family had
brought upon him. Proud of his own connection by


18       THE ROMANCE OF AN IRISH GIRL;
marriage, with a family greater than his own, he had
been resolved upon securing for his sons equally ad-
vantageous marriages; and had succeeded in getting
for Janies, his oldest son-an ardent, impulsive youth
-a wife, high in rank, but thoroughly vain and heart.'
less in character, who made him miserable by her
levity, and finally drove him to the commission of crime
by sacrificing his honor to her vanity, He shot both
his wife and her paramour, and fled his country never
to return.
Soured by the unhappy event, Lord Fowler threw
the blame upon Lady Fowler, who, he declared, by
her softness and sentimentality with her children, had
ruined their strength of charaetei', and unfitted them
for society as it was. From that time forward, th~ fond
mother was denied the privilege of macli intercourse
with her remaining children, with a view to instill in
them more wisdom and self-rule. The poor lady,
already broken-hearted, was plunged in despair by this
new trial, and was never again well or cheerful-a
fact which greatly irritated her lord, for lie really was
fond of her, and desired her to be happy in him alone.
But all Lord Fowler's prectmtions failed to prevei~t
his son John from entertaining views of his own about
marriage, which, at length, brought upon him his
father's heartiest wrath, and, hastened the destruction
of all family ties in that household.
While still quite a lad, ho had conceived a fancy
for a pretty child, one of the beggars' offspring which
were numerous enough upon his father's estate, and
had carried into execution the romantic design of
placing her under respectable guardianship, and

OR~ LIFE IN Two wORLDS.         19
giving her a respectable elilcation. All this had
been done privately, and more to gratify a love for
the extraordinary than because he possessed any real
sympathy for that class of persons, as a class. But
when the child had developed into the woman-a
woman of more than ordinary attractions-the stolen
visits which the young man made to his beautiful ward
assumed an unexpected interest; and in due course
of such affairs, became those of a lover to the woman
of his choice. The final result of John's romance
was a private marriage with a portionless girl of no
family, or rather of a family of beggars. This indis-
cretion was sufficiently offensive to have provoked
the wrath of a more indulgent father; but in Lord
Fowler's estimation it was the most unpardonable of
social and domestic sins. So well was John aware of
his position that the secret of his marriage was not
brought to light until by his father's announcing to
him an engagement which had just been completed
with a family of consequence. His betrothal to a
daughter of that family compelled the long deferred
explanation of his marriage.
The surprise and fury of Lord Fowler was past all
expression, and John, Who had hitherto meekly
remained in his father's home, hoping for some event
which would give him at least a pt~rtial independence,
found it expedient to depart in all haste. But his
lordship's second thought was to prevent his son's
departure; and accordiigl~, on some pretence, John
was decoyed into the castle and locked in his room,
where his reflections wera anything but enviable.
Had his father turned him out of doors, it would

4


20       THE ROMANCE OF AN IRISh GIRL;                                    OR~ LIFE IN TWO WORLDS.         21

have been no more than he expected; but this impri-
sonment lie feared had some other motive than pun-
ishment. In this suspicion he was quite correct.
The enraged lord took immediate measures ftr the
discovery of his son's wife, in the hope that he could
induce her to leave the country, or not succeeding in
this, that he could conspire against her honor in such
a way as to compel her husband to cast her off~
John, however, had guarded his secret well, and the
search proved ineffectual. Lord Fowler then had
recourse to threats with his prisoner in order to obtain
the desired information; but John was firm. To his
mother, who was once1permitted to see him, lie eon-
fessed everything, except that; which would, jt dis-
covered, en(lan(rer his wife's liberty, and entreated
her 1)ardon for bringing on her this new trouble. lie
then bade her farewell, kno~ving that the chances of
another meeting with her were small indeed.
Violence having failed of its object in bringing his
son to terms, Lord Fowler next resorted to artifice,
giving utterance to such expressions as mio'ht lead
b
John to believe that he was becoming reconciled,-
and finally made a proposition in apparent good
faith, that his son should bring his wife to the castle
to reside. here the dissimulation of one was fully
equal to that of the other, since John accepted the
offer with an air of gratitude that might have
rewarded a more sincere overture; but declined the
proposition of his father that servants should be sent
with a carriage to briiig her, in~ting instead, on
going for her in person, with only one attendant-
an excursion fro~in which he never had returned, up to

the time when the Lord Lieutenant of Ireland saw
his grandson Albert at his residence in Dublin!
In all these years the austere lord had ample
leisure to regret the compulsory measures used
toward his son; since lie not only suffered in his own
feelings the reproaches of nature, but Lady Fowler
had fallen a victim to her excessive grief for her
children; and also his daughter Ellen, a delicate girl,
had seemed to waste away much more after these
occurrences, until, at length, she too died, and he
was left widowed and childless.
The remembrance of all these events forced them-
selves painfully upon the Lord Lieutenant's mind
during the time he held parley with his inclinations
in Albert's absence. The injured pride of rank, and
the resentment for John's disobedience, were fast
giving way under the assaults of paternal impulses,
and by the time appointed for the meeting with his
grandson on the following day; Lord Fowler had
determined upon acknowledging his relationship, and
sending for his now only child to comfort his declin-
ing years.
Great was John Fowler's agitation on receiving the
summons. Not that from the beginning of these
adventures he had not looked forward to the possi-
bility of such an event, but that now his identity was
discovered, he was troubled with the recollection of
those old differences with his father, and regret,
resentment and tenderness were uncomfortably min-
gled in his thoughts. A strong desire to know some-
thing more of his mother and sister gave a nervous
eagerness to his anticipations of the proposed meet-


22       rin~ ROMANCE or AN IRISH GIRL;
ing, and when it was consented to seemed to wing
his feet with impatience.
The wife for whom this long estrangement had been
suffered, was awaiting him at the place of her acci-
dent, from which she was now recovered. The younger
children, too, were of the party, going to such an
aristocratic house as the Lord Lieutenant's, and Mary
and her humble husband. The Fowler blood had
commenced to mingle with plebeian, and this was
the second step in the descent-a step which possibly
might have been avoided if the head of the house
had overlooked the first departure from the high
road to honors and wealth.
John's feelings of doubt and coldness toward his.
father melted away, when, upon coining to his apart-
ment, the door was opened by his lordship, who ex-
claimed, "Thank God, that I see my son living !" This
reception, not altogether what he expected, quite dis-
armed the son, and the reunion was a happy one. A
hasty introduction of John's family was made, who
were very cordially received. "But my mother and sis.
ter ?" said John, looking anxiously in his father's face.
"You have no mother or sister in this life, John,"
answered Lord Fowler. John buried his face in his
hands without a word, for his thoughts were very
bitter. His father, while he respected his sorrow,
tried to divert it by attentions to his wife and child-
ren. Some letters and presents that Ellen and his
mother had left for him, should he ever be found,
were brought forward; and the contents of the let-
ters restored peace to John's heart, for they contained
only love and kind wishes.

OR~ LIFE IN TWO WORLDS.        23

Though John soon came to feel at his ease, not so
with his wife, who, added to her consciousness of her
forced relationship, had a fear that her husband would
now forget all her long, hard struggle with care and
poverty, and begin to undervalue that patient labor by
which she had so long kept himself and their child-
ren from want and degradation; for it had been the
hardy peasant woman, and not the helpless son of a
lord, who kept want from their cottage door, through
all these years in which the children were born and
reared. The change was less desirable to the mother
than to any member of the fandly; and it was with
great self-control she brought herself to call the
haughty old lord, "father," though she did it in the
same spirit she had always made sacrifice and done
impossible things for the sake of others.
The youngest child of the flock, little Annie, was
more successful than anybody else in making the
first awkwardness of their new condition less percep-
tible. To her a grandfather was a new thing, and the
artlessness with which she said "why, he is only a
man," when he was presented to her in that relation,
tended greatly to enliven the too emotional scene.
The old lord bantered Albert on having so nearly
read him a lecture at their first interview, and when
at the breaking up of the family party for the first
evening in their new home, he insisted on a kiss all
round, even from the dignified matron, the coldness
of years seemed fairly melted away, and a bond of
peace established between the lately estranged rela-
tions. So happily terminated Mary's painful adven-
tures.
$


OR, LIFE IN TWO WORLDS.         25

24:       THE ROMANCE OF AN 1111811 GIRL;

ChAPTER III.
SOON after the family were established in the Lord
Lieutenant's house, Lord Cunningham paid his friend
a visit to inquire what was to be done in the case of
Lord Ehia. his surprise at the discovery of the rela-
tionship between the plaintiff and his excellence was
very great indeed. Of course he declined taking any
further steps in the prosecution of Mary's enemies, a.s
she no longer needed his interference. The explana-
tion which was given of Lord Fowler's family affairs
startled Lord Cunningham very sensibly; for, in all
his intimacy with him, lie had never detected that
spirit of absolute rule which the circumstances of the
story indicated. On the contrary, he had mistaken
him for a liberalist, a1s he now told him. "I am
learning to be less despotic as I grow older," said his
excellence, "a change by no means uncommon."
Lord Cunningham Was a Scotchman by birth, and,
it might be said, in feeling. In person lie was fine-
looking, though not handsome, and had an air of
nobility. In character lie was gay, almost reckless,
not, however, without being candid and generous.
Though an aristocrat in sentiment, his disposition led
him to care for the concerns of the common people,
to whom his humanity was well known. his father
and mother having differed in religious belief, h~
used to say that lie was left half-way between the
Established Church and the Church of Rome, from

which accident it often happened that he succeeded
iii pleasing neither. A distant connection of the old
"Black" Douglas family, his sentiments were not
quite those of "Archibald the Grim," though in
many respects not unlike, lie was proud of tl~at
trait of the Douglas blood that hetd ~dishonesty, dis-
simulation and cowardice to be the worst of faults, and
that made it a virtue to protect the weak against une-
qual odds. He was no Federalist, and often declared
his intention of using his political influence against it.
"If you wish to be popular in Parliament, you
must not oppose Federalism," said Lord Fowler.
"It is the best spoke in the wheel."
"It may _be the 8tronge8t," replied Cunningham,
"but strength is not always virtue."
"In family government, for instance, what princi-
pie would you pursue, supposing your children were
disobedient ?" asked the Lord Lieutenant.
"In the first place," answered Cunningham, "if
my children were not obedient, I should conclude
either that 1 had not done right by them in the past,
or that I was now attempting to exact from them
something so unreasonable as to arouse their rebel-
lion. I shall endeavor to have my children regard
me as their best earthly friend; in which case I shall
have no fears for their obedience; and they will have
no fears that I shall regard the wishes or interests of
others before their own, which I hold it my sAcred
duty to consult, always." Lord Cunningham would
have gone on at greater length to speak of his p~c~-
liar views, but, chancing to observe the expression of
Lord Fowler's face, he was reminded that the utter-
2

,I


26       TIlE 1~OMANCE OF AN IRISH GILiL
ance of his sentiments might be unpleasantly sugges-
tive on the l)resent occasion, and gracefully turned the
talk about children to his own little girl, who had
recently been christened at I3eninare church. "I
have an infant daughter," said he, "who does not pro-
misc much beauty-though her mother is not want-
ing in personal charms-but whom I desire to cdii-
cate in Principles of right and justice, and who will not
be allowed to enter thc circles of Pi~liionable dissipa-
tion before her mind and character are pretty well de-
veloped. I hope to keep her sufficiently interested in
her home, both in my house and heart, to gual'd her
against any inordinate ambition in the direction of
fashion, at least while she is young."
"You have chosen a singular name for your daugh-
ter," said Lord Fowler.
"I named her iMiarion Wallace," said Cunningham,
a little nettled at the remark, and slapping his knee
violently, "because I wished her to resemble the
wife of William Wallace, in discharging her duty to
her husband, her country and her God, with heroism,
should it ever be her fate to be put to so severe a
test."
" You are not sul)erstitious then about naming
a child after an unfortunate person ?" asked Lord
Fowler.
"An Englishman might be excusable for having a
supei'stition about that particular name," answered
Cunningham a little sarcastically, "but to a Scotch-
man's ears it is ever a pleasant sound, inspiring
reverence and regard beyond the ordinary power of
miames to inspire feeling."

OR~ LIFE IN TWO WORLDS,         27

After all, who shall say that "superstitions" are
not governed by spiritual intuitions! They some-
times put on faces in whose depths of' eXpression
glow the subtle lights of inspiration.
John Fowler was very much pleased with Lord
Cunningham. lie spoke sentiments that found echo
in his breast; and it pained him to see how far his
father still differed from men of this stamp-of the
liberal and huniane order. Yet occupying the posi-
tion which he did, of lord, king and governor of
Ireland, a country which always had been subject to
the most oppressive rule, it was difficult for a man of
his natural severity and educational prejudices to full
easily into a more democratic opinion. The people
were accustomed to arbitrary government, and he
was without the genius to know how to modify that
government to their best interests, or even to under-
stand what those best interests were. Besides, he
was an Englishman, and to an Englisl imnan, the Irish
are utterly repulsiVe-secretly so, if not always con-
fessed. In talking over politics with Lord Cunning-
ham, it was easy enough to perceive that lie had all
the English contempt for the people he had to
govern- that he looked upon the views of "reform-
ers" as altogether visionary and '-speculative.
John, whose t~venty years among the poor had
tan o~ht m                 others, the benefit of
~    any things-amon
being em played in some useful hammer, was dissatis.
tiedI with his father's political ideas not only, but with
his own sudden and complete release from all duty
and anxiety on account of his family. The effect of a
sudden accession of fortune is often to make us weary


28       THE ROMANCE OF AN IRISh GIRL;
of the life, which before, in laboring to sustain, we
had been happy.
But for his father's opposition to such a proceed-
ing, John would cheerfully have returned to the hum-
ble home, ~vhieh through many trials and many
enjoyments had become so pleasant to him. As it
was, in absence of any more rational occupation, he
was fain to take to building air castles that could be
pulled down and rel)uilt daily and hourly.
The first visit which the Lord Lieutenant received
from over the Channel, gave his son as well as himself
the benefit of a little excitement, inasmuch as the
guests were people of distinction who had known the
family in years past, and who persisted in inquiring
into the history of John's marriage relations, after
first making the blunder of mistaking John for James,
whom they were surprised to see at large in Ireland.
Upon learning something of the real facts in relation
to his son, who was now Lord John, apologies were
made but too late to restore good feeling. Improper
or rather disagreeable signs of astonishment at the
supposed temerity of James, whose fate was unknown
to his own family, had aroused the ire of Lord Fow-
1cr in the first instance, and no apology could make
him forget the evident feeling of injury his visitors
had betrayed at the fancied hum unity of his ban-
ished and guilty eldest son. Neither could any
assumed respect cover the sneer which marked the
first avowal of Lady John Fowler's origin. 11cr
dignity, good sense and intelligence were counted
nothing by these scions of "noble blood," who could
not remember that even royalty itself was not always

OR~ LIFE IN TWO woRLDs.          29

royal-that often it is blood of the ba8est sort they
are taking so much pains to keep "unmixed." The
result of this visit was to disgust Lord Fowler with
the principles he had once so strenuously supported,
and to raise Lady John and her children in his
regard, by contrasting them with these supercilious
lords and ladies, both in manner and ideas. So
surely do these truths work themselves out when
opposite principles are brought into actual conflict
before a candid mind! When the mind arrives at
the power of absolute dispassionate judgment, how
quickly and- eagerly does virtue assert its own dig-
nity!
In the meantime, Lord Elia and Lord Charles were
still in confinement, and were to remain there for
some time longer though the prosecution was to be
dropped. The Lord Lieutenant believed he could
punish them better at his leisure than by sendhlg
them to New South Wales, a change of programme
which was, when known, regretted by the tenantry
on the Elia estate. Hitherto they had been so accus-
tomed to regard their lord as a being enjoying immu-
nity from consequences, whatever the offence against
humanity or religion, that the novel idea of a lord in
jail afforded them agreeable excitement for some
time. This was changing places most unexpectedly,
and they were glad, any one of them to give up the
residency which debt, brawling or other misdeinea-
nors often assigned to one of them, to the lord of the
estate. If the crops had failed, so that it was impos-
sible to pay the rents to their landlord, or their tithes
to their priests and the government; or if they had


30   .   TIlE ROMANCE OF AN IRISH GIRL;                                    OR~ LIFE IN 'IWo WOULD.       31

indulged in a little pugilistic exercise, and broken a
tUlow renter's nose, or made a trifle too much noise
at election, they might one and all have been served,
rent free, with a term in the county jail. It was one
of their privileges always; but dear as association
had made this refuge to the poor, iightin% riotous son
of Erin, when it caine to a choice of occupying it
himself or resigning it to a lord, out of the pure good-
ness of his heart he preferred to resign it! Even in
that touching case where a proctor has given a joint
lease to several tenants, and in default of some of
them, has compelled one to pay the rent of many,
which one in return, from slicer indignation, has been
impelled to inflict upon the manceuvring proctor a
severe castigation, not altogether undeserved, which
entitles himself td the tread-mill or the jail-even in
this extreme case the generous Irishman would not
fail to abnegate in favor of a lord, more especially
when that lord was of such qualities as the lord of
the estate of Elia. Therefore, when it was reported.
that their lordships were to be taken out of their
honorable place of present abode, theme was great dis-
satisfaction among the attached tenantry of the Elias.
Poor unhappy Ireland! England has undertaken
to christianize thee in a strange manner. Unjust
and unmerciful ministers teach hatred and rebellion,
instead of obedience and love. Thy people have no
true friends anywhere; but degradation and contempt
seem their portion forever. Shall it be forever? Or
is there a future in which the Irish shall be restored
as a people and a nation to their ancient and rightful
heritage. There such a boon in store?

I

ChAPTER IV.
bun CUNNINGHAM was in Scotland. His errand
was to obtain a Scotch nurse for his infant daughter
-a person who would be, at once, nurse and instruct-
ress, and who w~uld stand in the place of a mother to
Marion, whose own mother cared little for the wants
of infancy. In truth, Lady Cunningham dreaded the
care of children; and, though this little daughter was
an only child, the fact of her giving no great promise
of beauty, completely turned the mother's heart away
from her. If she had children they must be able to
give her pleasure in the way she desired; but, to acceii~
them as a possible blessing she could not. Lord Cun-
ningham hence felt the responsibility resting upon him
more -deeply, and his tenderness for his child was
greatly increased by her loveless situation without
Imiua. What a beneficent provision of our nature is it
which makes us cling most closely to the persecuted
or the deformed.
Although his errand was this special one, he wished
to indulge his strong national feeling by lingering a
while among the ruins of Scotland's ancient glory
and strength. By the old Douglas Castle he sat down
and wept-wept that the proud and the brave who
once dwelt within its walls could not be restored to
Scotland, free! Sincerely he wished lie might in-
voke some mighty ghost from among those crumbling
walls; and in his soul loudly called the brave Doug-


I

32       TIlE ROMANCE OF AN IRISh GIRL.
las clansmen with their chiefs to appear. The ivy on
the walls answei'ed him with a mournful whisper, as it
shook in the wind, lie felt that in due Pine, these
(Iry 1)ones should reunite; and, inspired by the spirit
of retributive justice, bring terror to their enemies-
that Ireland and Scotland should be free! lie
observed, with a grateful sense, how carefully the ivy
enveloped every remaining stone, as though preserv-
ing it for the return of its ancient glory, and kissed
the beautiful, the faithful vine.
From the castle of his ancestors, Lord Cunningham
~vent to Dumbarton, with tIme romantic intention of'
spending a night among its soul-stirring associations.
There was Wallace's sword, and a tower called Wal-
lace's Tower. In this tower he would sleep on the
sword of Wallace, if sleep lie could: and hoped that,
slee~Ang or waking, lie might have a vision of the
hero.
Having made his arrangements in the ruins for the
night, Cunningham was wrapt in a reverie on the
duties of man as a patriot, as well as citizen and father;
thinking ho~v, were it not for this last relationship,
he should be tempted to rebellion and a fierce strug-
gle for rights. He remembered that "God giveth
all liberty and upbraideth not." Also, that God's char-
acter had been slandered by the serpent in the garden
of Eden, who represented that God was a liar, and
the woman should not surely die. But, God had
avenged the insult; and so he was inclined to believe
would He avenge the insult daily heaped upon His
generous providence, by those governments who, ser-
pent-like, deny his intention of dispensing alike, libe-

OR, LIFE IN TWO WORLDS.

33

rally to all; and who, assuming everything to them-
selves, put off the needy and helpless with the assur~
ance that, for t1te~n only, has God "provided liberally
and upbraided not."
While these thoughts were running through his
mind, he was startled by the unexpected sound of
human voices. Thinking of those outlaws who some-
times take refuge 'in these deserted places, he snatched
the precious sword of Wallace, which lie had taken
from its careful preserve, and prepared for an encoun-
ter. He soon discovered, however, that the voice
came from a pei'sofl in distress; and, although still
fearing he might fall into unpleasant company, deter-
mined upon investigating the cause of the cries. lie
crept stealthily along in the direction of the sounds.
The persons, whoever they might be, were so much
engaged in their personal warfare that he had ap-
proached within speaking distance before they ob-
served him. Contrary to his surmises, his appear-
ance seemed to occasion more consternation than
anger or suspicion; and lie soon saw that the persons
were fugitives of no common sort. He could not, by
the moonlight that struggled through the windows,
distinguish countenances, even were they undisguised;
but, by the voice of the person in distress, he per-
ceived that one was a woman; and, noticing tfiat her
companion seemed frightened and irresolute, lie was
the first to speak and demand ~in explanation of her
condition.
"Oh, I know not what to do," said the voice bf a
boy, "IL have the Lady Emma Cunningham here, and
she is very ill."
2*


34       TILE ROMANCE OF AN IRISH GIRL;                                        OI?~ LIFE IN ~JWO WORLDS.        35

"Lady Emma! good God !" exclaimed Cunning-
ham, fearing to trust his ears; " how came the lady
Emma in thi6 place, and what is the matter with
her ?"
"Oh, I do not know-I fear to tell without knowing
who you are. I fear she would not like to have it
told," cried the boy in great trouble.
"I am her brother, my good boy-Lord Charles
Cunningham, who is distressed at meeting his sister
under such circumstances as these, and who wishes to
hear them explained immediatelyy"
Thins reassured, the boy began to relate that Lady
Emma had fled from home to escape marrying a sui-
tor whom her father had commanded her to accept,
but whom she could not, because she loved and was
betrothed to some other; and because, had that not
been the case, the person in question was a dissolute
Roman Catholic Frenchman, while she was a devoted
Protestant. Tier father's severity~ and the agitation
and perils of her flight had made her ill, and her mind
wandering.
Lord Cunningham had observed that she frequently
called upon William Wallace, which was the first
indication, the boy said, she had given of being dis-
ordered in mind, and supposed her arrival at the castle
in a state of high fever, had given her ideas this
direction, as she often called upon the dead hero for
protection.
Cunningham, greatly alarmed, proceeded to admin-
ister for her relief. She was moved to a place of com-
fort; medical aid was brought and every relief offered
that was possible; but nothing reached her disease.

I

She was too utterly exhausted in all her vital powers
to bear long either with disease or medicine; and,
after fourteen hours of suffering-during which she
had only a few moments of consciousness-she ex-
pired iii the arms of her brother-a victim of the
horrors of ~ usages.
"Poor victim of a remorseless despotism !" sighed
Lord Cunningham as he held the now still and lovely
form in his arms. "What beings are the fathers of
Great Britain and Ireland, who fence in their wealth
and lordly connections, with the hearts and lives of
their own children! heaven and myself, shield my
child from such compulsion as my poor, dear sister
has suffered ! Rather let her die as Enuna has done,
than live to pine in an abhorred marriage."
Alone with the dead, in that place of ruins and
desolation!
The Lady Emma was laid out, her hands crossed,
her eyes closed, her hair smoothed and her figure
straightened for the grave by the hands of Lord Cun-
ningham, who performed these sacred offices tenderly
and caressingly, as if it could soothe the spirit late ~o
troubled to feel this kindness to its beautiful eartldy
temple. lie then sat down to watch beside the rigid
form another night. hardly had lie composed
himself, when the thunder of horses' hoofs broke the
night stillness, and a company of mounted men sur-
rounded the. castle.
As Cunningham apprehended, it was his father,
with a party, in search of his missing daughter.
*When, perceiving a light in the lonely tower, he came
blustering in with heated countenance and flashing


36       TIlE ROMANCE OF AN IRISH GIRL;
eyes, attended by his intended son-in-law--what a
meetinod Sudden o'reat reactions of feeling are apt
b
to be dangerous, and Cunningham was alarmed when
he beheld the ghastly face of the father as lie was
confronted with the pallid Thriii of his dead daughter.
What, then, to him were titles or riches? If lie had
a living daughter, wealth might comfort him, or rank
make him proud; but now lie had neither comfort
nor pride-his oiily daughter lay dead before him
dead-and he might accuse himself of her murder.
The strong, proud, tyrannical old man was conquered
-was weak, dismayed and humbled. There, too, was
the bridegroom, cowering and conscience-smitten;
and the shocked faces of rough men looking on from
a distance.
A few moments were given to this scene; then
Lord Cunningham signified to the lover his desire to
be left alone with his father and sister; an intima-
tion complied with almost immediately by the ret~r-
ing of the entire party from Dumbarton Castle.
The conversation which the father and son held
together in this place of mourning, painful as it was,
perhaps was more confidential and truly endearing
than any that could ever have taken place between
these persons, of such different sentiments. It was no
place to quarrel over opinions; that dead daughter,
lying there in her martyr's robes, was an unanswer-
able argument against the stern old Scottish lord.
His grief~ too, was excessive, for he was at heart fond
of the Lady Emma, and deplored her loss greatly,
apart from his remorse of conscience. Lord Charles
was careful not to bruise the broken heart, and des-

OR~ LIFE IN TWO WORLDS.        37
pite his own sorrow, turned comforter to the greater
sufferer.
In compliance with a sentiment of his own, and a fan-
cied wish of his sister's, Lord Charles had her remains
interred in a corner of Dumbarton Castle; and her
father, if he would have wished to oppose it, felt that
he had lost the right.
Lord Charles accompanied his father home, feeling
that the old man had received a shock from which he
would never recover; eventually having accomplished
his business in Scotland, he took leave of a country
which these unhappy adventures made him desirous
of abandoning forever. So do we seek to run away
from painful associations, the effect of which, after all,
may have been salutary on ourselves.


38       TILE ROMANCE OF AN IRISH GIRL;

ChAPTER V.
WIIEN Lord Cunningham reached home, he found
his afl~iirs in considerable confu~ioii. The rents were
due, but the people not being able to pay, the l)l~oc-
tor had impounded their cattle, by order of Lady
Cunningham, who was thoroughly aristocratic in her
views of feudal government. Desiring to make an
examh)le of the proctor for extreme proceedings with-
out his consent, Cunniiighiarn compelled him to
restore the cattle to the tenantry with apologies;
after which humiliation lie was discharged. An act
of so much mercy to the h)OO~ made a sensation, all
over northern Ireland. Landlords and tenants were
alike interested. It was something new under the -
sun, and tenants blessed him in all directions. Per-
haps ~ people could better feel and appreciate this
clemency than the Irish P~ The charm and the
fault of the Irish character is their sensibility. But,
however well the tenants were l)leased with Lord
Cunningham's movement, the landlords were disaf-
fected by it. It was argued thiit such examples
would set the people crazy about their "rights ;" for
mercy so freely extended to them they would there-
after claim as a right. It had always been a point to
sustain the proctors in any measures that would col-
lect the rents, no matter how hard and unfeeling. A
man whose heart was open to the dictates of human-
ity was little fitted for the office, and but seldom held

it; or, if by chance a little pity was felt, it was care-
fully concealed from employers as somediing of
which to be ashamed, or to which some penalty must
attach.
But, in this instance of Lord Cunningham, the
unusual favor shown the poor aroused their enthusi-
asm by its very incomparableness, and in four weeks
from the time their cattle were returned to them the
tenants surrounded the castle in hundreds with their
rents in their hands. The occasion was quite an excit-
ing one, for Roman and Protestant stood there side
by side with eager, excited faces, as if they were medi-
tating a rebellion, causing~t first a start on the part
of the inmates of the castle. A few moments, how-
ever, sufficed to show their friendly intentions, and
his lordship was called for to answer the shouts of the
people. A cheer that rent the very heavens greeted
the appearance of their benefactor, who responded to
them in a speech, and was answered by a speaker on
their part chosen by themselves to present their land-
lord with the rents.
These scenes, however much they may have grati-
fled his lordship, were very displeasing to Lady Cnn-
ninghain. She looked with disgust upon this ten-
dency toward democracy of sentiment, by interfering
in the affairs of the poor. In her estimation it really
betrayed "low l)ropensities," and was altogether un-
pardonable in a lord. "The same thing," she said,
"was apparent in his management of his child, whom
he had already indulged in the notion that she must
be with him, until, whenever his voice was heard in
the house she would look and listen until lie ma7o

OR, LIFE IN TWO WORLDS.

39


40       THE ROMANdE OF AN IRISH GIRL;
his appearance, when she would go through all the
pranks of a little monkey to entertain huin. lit made
her so nervous she wished the child had never been
born, while he and the Duke of Sutherland were
amusing themselves with her ridiculous performances.
How a lord could condescend to be amused in a
nursery she could not understand."
And, poor lady, neither could she; for besides being
very punctilious about all matters of etiquette, she
disliked children, and especially her own daughter,
because she was a bone of contention between her-
self and her husband. In vain did she remonstrate,
sneer or fret; the father's heart was bound up in the
child, and he gave himself up to the pleasure of
watching her growth and training with the greatest
zeal. Even the parrot was taught to exclaim, "poor
Markn !" "good Marion !" "heaven bless you,
Marion !" and all such foolish and fond phrases.
Lord Cunningham had secured an intelligent and
faithful foster-mother for his child, who would guard
her from the knowledge of evil, either in actual life,
or these unwholesome fictions which nurses are in the
habit of teaching to children. lIe forbade anything
being told her which could not be explained or under-
stood. lie also objected to religious ideas being
taught her until she was able to comprehend who
and what she was under obligations to obey, for lie
believed that when she could comprehend the nature
of God and his claims upon her, she would obey
willingly and without any confusion of ideas. To all
these, to her, original views, Lady Cunningham
opposed her contempt, active or silent as the occasion

OR, LIFE IN TWO WORLDS.         41

I

might suggest; neither was she the only person who
thought his lordship heterodox, and it remained for
himself and his Weslcyan Methodist nurse to care
for little Marion's welfare, temporal and eternal.


42       TIlE kOMANCE OF AN IRIS!! GIRL                                     OR~ LIFE IN T~VO WORLDS.        43

CHAPTER XTI
PAssING over a period of five years, Marion is now
seven years of age. rflius far she has been a comfort
to hem~ 4~at1mer an(l a constant affliction to her mother,
who feels and says, she would more gladly see the
grave closed over her child, than see her growing
up without the refinement suitable to her statiomi, or
with the ridiculously " liberal " views of her father.
11cr fastidiousness is daily shocked by the practical
manner in which Lord Cunningham discusses the
wants of the degraded Irish, and she declares, over
and over again, that it is no part of a la(hy's educa-
tion to be instructed in the condition of the common
PeoPle.
There is no comfort in living in Ti'eland," she
~vould say, "where the PeoPle are so low and the
nobility have no respect for their l)osition."
About this time Lord Cunninrhiamn was appointed
by Government to settle some business of a public
nature in Canada, and much as he disliked going
from home, lie would not shrink from what appeared
to be his duty in the case. In leaving his own ten-
antry lie had no particular fears, because lie knew
they were deeply attached to him; but as the distress
in Ireland from failure of C~Ol)5 was very severe at
this time, lie apprehended a rising of the people,
and knowing that Lady Cunningham was no favor-
ite with them, feared some harm might come to her,

which his servants would not take sufficient pains to
l)revelit.
Another cause of disquietude was the animosity of
the Elias toward himself on account of the assistance
he had once rendered to Mary Fowler, against them-
selves. They were malicious and 11n1)rincipled men,
who in his absence, might avenge themselves ujx~n
his family in some unlocked tor manner. Lady Cnn-
ningliani refused to see any imperfections in these
lordly personages, because they preserved, according
to her ideas of propriety, the punctillos of their
rank, and the more her husband objected to her inti-
macy with them, the more reasons she saw for
regarding them with particular friendship.~. lIe only
hoped she might not be foolish enough to intrust
them with any serious confidence.
Ever since the death of his sister, the Lady Emma,
Lord Cunningham had been troubled by fits of
melancholy which it was impossible to shake off,
and on the occasion of taking leave' of his wife and
daughter, for so long a journey, his spirits quite failed
him; evemi a foreboding of' some great calamity over-
shadowed his heart. But commending them to God
and the care of faithful servants, one of whom was
to be his correspondent, lie bade them farewell.
For some time everything went on as usual. But
a great misfortune which befell Marion at length
brought confusion upon the household. The child
was one day playing in an arbor erected on the lawn,
when a violent screaming attracting her attention sue
ran in the direction of the cries, and discovered her
mother in an attitude of alarm warning off some

I

I


44       TIlE ROMANCE OF AN IRISh GIRI~
beggars who had just got into the grounds. Seeing
that there were several children in the group, and
not having a fear of these people, Marion approached
the mendicants near enough to see that the poor
mother of the flock held a dead baby in her arms,
which Marion was thoughtless enough to touch with
her hand. It turned out that the child had the
small-pox, and when Lady Cunningham's screams
had brought the servants to send away the miserable
wretches, it became manifest that Marion had exposed
herself to the loathsome disease. It only needed this
folly on the child's part to fill Lady Cunningham's
cup of bitterness toward her. She utterly refused.
to have her brought into the house; but ordered her
sent to the pest-house to await the course of the ter-
rible malady, as she would not suffer any exposure to
herself, and it was the child's fault that she had run
the risk.
This decree with regard to Marion filled the ser-
vants with indignation, and the pool' child with ter-
ror. Her little, heart was broken by the unnatural
desertion and banishment. Yery fortunately for her,
the head servant at the castle, one Brooks, deter-
mined to take the affair into his own hands; and
placing Marion in the care of her nurse who had had
the disease, he immediately undertook to find some
one among the better class of farmers on the estate,
who would take his young mistress under his own
care and protection for the necessary period, for the
consideration of generous payment. IJis first appli-
cation was entirely successful, as the farmer, whose
name was Woods, was one of Lord Cunningham's

I

OR, LIFE IN TWO WORLDS.        45

most attached tenants. He and his good wife sent
away such of their own children as had not had the
disease, retaining at home only their eldest son, and
immediately adopted the little outcast lady ijito their
house and hearts. Brooks was an exception to Irish-
men generally, for he could control his indignation, if
need were, to do what was most expedient. In this
case lie had conducted affairs very properly and dis-
creetly, altogether in the best manner for Marion.
Tie would have offered to take the children of Woods
to the castle, but feared Lady Cunningham's displea-
sure. They were distributed therefore among the
neighboring farmers.
The little parlor of the Woods cottage, with the
bedroom adjoining, was put in order for Marion and
her nurse; and, as yet, she experienced no incon-
vemence from her imprudence, the novelty of her sit-
uation gave her considerable amusement. The little
garden gate, and the stile by it, had their beauties;
the thick garden hedge, intermixed with woodbine,
holly and roses, made to her mind, the prettiest fence
imaginable-" a thousand times prettier," she said,
"than the varnished pickets, that looked like glisten-
ing spears around the castle grounds. Why does not
my father have such fences ?" she asked. "Because
pickets are better to keep out thieves and beggars
from the grounds of the rich. We have no fears from
robbers, and a hedge secures our gardens quite well
enough. Besides, they keep the fowls from our young
plants and vegetables."
All this was intensely interesting to Marion; and
the visit of Dr. Wilkins, in the midst of her enjoy-


46       TiI1~ I~oM.Nci~ oil' AN misu oIuL
mont, seemed entirely superfluous. But Brooks had
sent the physician of the family to look after the child,
and prescribe her diet, which he made very rigorous
indeed. The humane doctor swore more fervently
than politely concerning the banishment of her child
by Lady Cunningham, which, heartless as it was on
her part, was, undoubtedly, as good a thing as could
have been done for the welfare of the child, since she
had fallen into such kind hands. The daily ride in
the cart, about the farm with Mr. Woods, which the
doctor advised, was a great delight as well as benefit
to her; only marred by her observations on the con-
dition of the ten antry; and, young as she was, she
was impressed with the natural kindness of heart ma-
nifested by a people so shamelessly neglected. She
was SlIr1)rised to see that even among her father's
tenants, the children had not clothing enough to cover
their nakedness. Large boys and girls were run-
ning about with no more on them than an old shirt;
and, in some cases, children in a state of perfect nudity
were amusing themselves cheerfully with the pig
or donkey; but, upon perceiving a stranger ran off to
hide like rabbits. Sexes were often indistinguishable
through dirt and the strange dress worn alike by either.
Boys, almost in their teer s~ were clothed in some old
under-garment which had belonged to their mothers,
and their sisters were no better ofl~ The infant mind
of Marion was filled with wonder that such things
could exist, while her father talked about the poor,
and the duty of landlords. She began to susp~t that
the right policy had not yet been fallen upon by the
agitators of reform.

I

OR, LIFE IN TWO WORLDS.         47

But, while Marion was being in turn troubled and
amused by her new circumstances, there was discon-
tent and confusion at the castle. The servants were,
as much as they dared be, in a state of revolt, and
~annoyed their mistress in all the various ways servants
can, while she fretted and threatened in vain. The
very parrot seemed in the conspiracy, and constantly
rel)eated every sentence of a bad import which she
overheard about iMiarion. "IMlarion got the sniall-
pOX. Marion will die-sli~'ll die !" screamimed the
noisy bird every hour of the day, varied by exclama-
tions of "Lady Cunningham's a heathen-d------~---d
heathen !" none of which cries could have been very
comforting to the irritable lady. The superstitious
servants thought the bird had predicted Marion's
death, instead of merely repeating what it had over-
heard among themselves ; and used more lamenta-
tions, which the parrot never failed to repeat, until
Lady Cunningham was nearly distractedd and had ft-c-
quent fits of fainting, caused by these annoyances.
In time mi(lst of this unhappiness, there was an al-ri-
val at the castle, of the Duke of Southwiek and two
sisters, distant relatives of her ladyship. Time duke
had long been on terms of intimate friendship with
Lord Cunningham; and, knowing his great affection
for his little daughter, was put in a great rage by the
accounts lie received, of her mother's heartlessness in
4        desiring to sen(l her own child to a pest-house, instead
of devoting to her use a part of the castle, sufficiently
remote to secure her own safety, if that was of so
much importance. The ladies, though they i-c-
1)roached Lady Cunningham with cruelty, were still

47


48       TIlE ROMANCE OF AN IRISh GIRL;

greatly incensed at the poor creature who caused the
calamity, and joined her ladyship heartily in her re-
pugnance to the poor, and hatred of the Irish poor,
in particular. Some of their conversations being
overheard by the servants, caused mutterings and dis-
respect. Among the most disaffected, was Brooks,
who, from long service in titled families, was ac-
quainted with many of the scandals of the nobility,
and did not hesitate to say that the duke and his sis-
ters were of illegitimate birth; and that the ladies,
who had such a horror of the poor Irish, were receiv-
ing pensions               government of eioi
from the Eno'lish              ~ ity
thousand pounds each; for the support of witich pro-
fligacy, the Irish had to work and fight. Indeed, it
is well known, for what cause the government pen-
sions many of these ladies of doubtful birth-a fact
for which the Irish owe the English nobility no great
love.
But, to return to Marion, the time had arrived for
the development of the disease. The poor baby was in
a state of intense suffering, and she was blind and
helpless. her life was despaired of by all her atten-
dants except good iDr. Wilkins, whose faithfulness and
profound skill probably saved her. The services of
Mrs. Woods, and Lucy the nurse, were of no small
inmportauc.e. Between these volunteer friends, the lit~
the forlorn outcast from her mother's love was re-
stored to the hope of health. During Marion's ill-
ness, tIme farmer's children, whose hearts she had won
by her amiability, inquired often after tIme invalid,
and left daises and primroses by the apronful, with
Mrs. Wood, in token of their sympathy.. During the

OR~ LIFE IN TWO WORLDS.         49
height of the fever and delirium, the poor little suf-
ferer called upon her father frequently, in tones of
entreaty, bewailing his absence and her mother's cold-
ness, most pitifully.
A good constitution and great care triumphed over
the disease, and Marion was convalescent. She had
received letters and presents also, by the first mail
from Canada, and a draft for a considerable amount
of money, which she amused herself in portioning out
in presents to her humble friends. The doctor, who
took a great interest in his little patient, was rejoiced
'I
at her returning' health and cheerfulness, and took
b
delight in assisting any of her innocent plans.
The doctor was destined to make a discoveryy with
regard to her case which was shocking in the
extreme. 'On returning home, one afternoon, from a
visit to his young patient, while passing by the resi-
)       deuce of the Elias he caine upon a frightful looking
object-the same woman who had exposed Marion to
the dreadful disease she was suffering from-but now
in a dying condition. Two men had just brought her
to the spot where the doctor encountered the sad sight,
and, from them and from her, he learned the history
of her wrongs and the infamy of Lord Charles Elia.
The poor wretch stated that she lived with her hius-
baud on the Ella estate ; and that the pressure of the
tii~~s, together with the sickness of their children,
who were having the smallpox had made it impossi-
ble to pay the rent. In this extremity, Charles Elia
had promised her that he would forgive her husband
the rent, and secure the place to them for three years
more, rent-free, if she would take her children and go


50        'nir: W'MANCE OF AN IRISh GIRL                                     OR, LIFE IN TWO WORLDS.          51

begging to certain places for one week. The poor
woman could hot help knowing what would be the
cousequen('u .f such a l)roceetlillcr but, her gi~eat
want compelled her to accept the diso'ustino' con-
(litions. 11cr pLl't (4 the contract had been fulfilled, as
several could testit~ like Marion; but his part still
remained undone. After a few weeks the miserable
family had been turned out of doors by the proctor,
and the little they possessed was sold.
Lord Elia's residence was on an island of Loch
Erne, where she had that day been iu order, in some
way, to get a message to Lord Charles, hoping he
might yet aid her as he had promised. At the
entrance of the different avenues leading to the man-
sion were little covered kennels or dog-houses, where
immense bull-dogs were kept chained to guard the
premises from intruders, especially from beggars.
She knew the danger of attempting to enter; but,
goaded on by her necessities, had taken the risk.
Alas, she had not escaped. Those fierce, terrible
dogs had almost torn her in pieces. The boatmen
who run over produce, had takeii her across, and the
watchman or porter had not noticed her arrival out-
side the gate; so that there was no one at hand to
render her any assistance even if they would have
done so; and it was by the merest accident these
two men had come in time to save her alive, for these
dogs well liked an Irish woman for a lunch, and had
quite as little mercy as their masters. The misera-
ble woman, torn and dying, had just been brought
back, when the doctor met her. lie gave~ her a
stimulant, and ordered her carried to her own house

where he could examine her wounds. But the proc-
tor was there before them and would not yield pos-
session. The doctor assured him it was only for a
little time she could live. "Then let her die out of
doors," answered the wretch; "she cannot come in
here, if they all die." The doctor persisted, the
proctor stood his ground, and threatened to shoot.
At this, the doctor gave him ~ blow with his fist
which laid him 1)rostrate, and ordered the husband to
carry his wife into the hut; but the woman was dead.
Contenting himself with giving the proctor a lecture
in addition to his first punishment, the doctor went on
his way, meditating upon Charles Ehia's crimes, and
what the great may do without endangering their
reputations.
Doctor Wilkins was a peculiar man. Savage in
his looks, he was at heart very kind and benevolent.
With a frown he could make a beggar run away
from him; and the next moment lie was angry at
himself for frowning, and, at the beggar for running,
as jf he had anything to fear. lie loved children,
and was kind to them. One day, as he was riding
along, and talking to himself about something that
amused him, he observed a boy and girl standing in
the road looking earnestly at hiiimi. As lie ap-
proached, the boy took off his ragged hat and made a
bow, still without speaking.
"What are you looking at?" said lie, gruffly.
"At your honor," answered the boy.
"Why do you look at me?"
"Because you are good-looking," answered the
boy, promptly.


52       mE ROMANCE OF AN inisu GIRL;                                      OR, LIFE IN TWO WORLDS.          53

The doctor laughed heartily, and asked the child
his name.
"It's me name is Pat Monday, your honor."
"What is your father's name
"John Monday."
"Where do you live ?"
"At Sandhill bog; and me mother is sick, and I
must be going, your honor."
"Stop; what does your father do for a living?"
"What's that, your honor ?"
"What kind of work does lie do ?"
" Shiure, lie's in jail !"
The doctor recollected that he was on his way to
visit a patient; but lie sent the boy with his sister to
his house, to get refreshments, and promised to see
him again. Such were his ways and acts.
The good doctor, with his amusing ways, was a
great comfort to Marion during the period of her
convalescence. He told her stories, sympathized
with her in her childish plans, amid talked with her of
her father; for whose return she preferred to wait,
before asking permission to take up her residence
again at the castle.
Lord Cunningham had made a quick passage out
to the provinces; an6., having succeeded in transact-
ing the mine cessary busimiess in good time, had returned
as fi~r as Dublin, whence lie wrote to Brooks to come
to him, as he should be detained a few days. It niay
have been that tIme man, indignant at the spirit of the
administration at the castle, was highly gratified at
this opportunity to give his master warning of the
condition of his domestic affairs; ceAain it is that,

when his lordship caine to understand what had
taken place in his absence, lie rested not until he was
upon the road; and his journey closed not at his own
door, where he had hoped to meet his family united,
but at the cottage of farmer Woods. "1 will share
my daughter's banishment," lie said, l)itterly ; " Lady
Cunningham shall enjoy her tastes unmolested by the
presence of husband or child." A note to that eIh~ct
had already been sent to her ladyship, when iLord
Cunningham, aim ost unannounced, alighted before
the cottage of the honest farmer. Marion's still deli-
cate nerves were terribly shaken, though it was by
joy at this unexpected happiness; and a scene such
as will not bear description gave witness to the pain
and pleasure of this meeting. One of the strongest
proofs that man is an emanation from the divine
nature, is the power and grandeur of his emotions,
which raise him out of this world aiid time, in love,
I       in gratitude, or in worship.
But while Marion and her father are recovering
from their first agitation of feeling, a scene not alto-
gether wanting' in               ig at the castle.
~ interest is transpire
Up to the receipt of his lordship's letter, Lady Cun-
ningham had entertained the idea that in the late
transactions she had been the aggrieved party. "It
was bad enough that her husband should have
always disregarded her aristocratic tastes, that her
child instead of being bred a lady of refinement, was
allowed and encouraged in such plebeian habits and
ideas as her father seemed resolute to educate her in;
but to add to her mortification, the stupid child had
exposed herself to a disease which must disfigure her


54       TIlE ROMANCE OF AN IRISH GIRL;                                     OR~ LIFE iN TWO WORLDS.         5~i

for li&amp; ; not only that, but her ridiculous father must
throw the blame on 1w;', and by associatingg with the
child before her health was ~ve11 restored, perhaps
take the disease himself. A pock-marked daughter
and )nisband to have before 11cr eyes all her life!
When would her troubles end ?" and thoroughly con-
vinced that end they never would, the poor lady
actually fainted. When she recovered, her first
impulse was to send for Brooks arid dismiss him for
impertinent conduct informing upon her actions; but
a quiet remark from her cousin, the IDuke of South-
wick, that "if his sister would second her ladyship's
motion, he would argue it," hinted to her that the
matter bad better rest for the present.

It

54

I

ChAPTER YR.
AFTER a few days of looking up the condition of
his estate, Lord Cunningham informed her ladyship
by letter, of his intention of going back to Canada,
with his daughter, as soon as both were ready, and
invited her ladyship to accompany them if she should
like to ; otherwise to inform him of' her wishes.
Would she reside in Scotland with her relatives?
Would she prefer a residence in England, where
more congenial associations could be had? Or
would she remain in Ireland?
Lady Cunningham was not going to accept any
overtures in haste, however polite. As for going to
Scotland, she would not-nor even to England, though
she wished it; nor to the new world, least of all. She
would not decide in haste ; but would finally remain
in Ireland and make herself as happy as she could
with the Elias and other families obnoxious to his
lordship. In that way she felt sure of avenging
some of the insults put 11~OIl her by him.
Accordingly, in reply to his inquiries she "assured
Lord Cunningham that she had no present need of
his attentions, and would (leCidC for herself wlieii it
pleased her. lie had better riot deprive his daughter
of his entire thou gl~ts, lest she might suffer from so
unusual a deprivation. She was sorry she had not
pleased him by sacrificing her life for the child he
was so devoted to; but for the future, hoped she

55


5(3        THi~ ROMANCE OF AN Iaisii GIuL;

OR, LIFE IN TWO WORLDS.        57

should be absolved from all responsibility concerning
the care of his pock-marked Irish girl, as she was not
fond of such extraordinary qualities as she l)os-
It would be difficult to tell whether his lordship
was most angry or most grieved, at this unfeeling
answer. The sooner to forget it he turned his
attention to other things. Marion, in her artless yet
earnest way, had detailed to him accounts of the pri-
vation and degradation she had observed among his
tenantry, asking if nobody loved or cared for these
wretched people.
"I was born in Ireland," she would say, "and so
am an Irishwoman, though I am named for a Scotch
lady. I wish I could visit Scotland, yet, even if I
could, perhaps I should see poor unhappy peol)le there
as well as hero, and as this is now my country, I
want to do something for these people first. I wish
you would tell me what to do, father."
Lord Cunningham was as much puzzled with the
problem of what to do, as his little girl. Lately, his
beautiful Irish estates had lost their charm 'for him.
The more acquaintance lie had with them the less he
hoped ever to get his people into a more prosperous
condition, and while possessing the willingness to act,
he hhd not the knowledge needed of the way in
which to commence the reform. To give them
money would be to send them to buy whisky and
fight, for that is the only use they know for money.
To distribute clothing amongst them in their present
miserable habits of living, would be doing them an
unimportant service. To feed them by charity as a

common thing would only take away the little dis-
position to exertion that they now have, lie would
have been glad to have colonized a portion of them,
that the remainder might have a better chance to
live; but was convinced that it would be no great
blessing either to the emigrants or to people of the
country to which they might be sent. The poorest
part of them were Roman Catholics, entirely under
the authority of the priests, and would feel it their
duty to promote the cause of their religion, which in
a Protestant community would occasion ill-feeling.
Besides, it had always been preached to them that it
was their blessed privilege to be poor and ragged.
All denominations join in declaring that God makes
the rich man rich and the poor man poor. This sort
of sentiment is not the one with which to enter upon
a new life in a new and thriving country.
Neither would they be a good element in a coun-
try like the United States, for another reason. They
are so used to be bought and sold in their own elec-
tions when they have any voice in such occasion~,
and to be of whatever politics their masters arc, and
to cry God save the king, whether sincere or not,
that they would be apt to prove in a republican
government a powerful force in the hands of demago-
gues, or any corrupt political tricksters. The prac-
tices of their lords are often so inimnoral and the
temptations held out to them to assist in the imumo-
rahities so great, that they seldom have the courage to
resist them. Indeed compliance is often a neces8?tg,
since the landlords threaten them with a discontinu-
ance of their leases unless they bring in as large a
3*


58       TIlE ROMANCE OF AN IRISh GIRL;                                  OR, LIFE IN TWO WORLDS.        59

vote as possible. Consequently they are little accus-
tomed to think for themselves, or to appreciate the
advantage of a change in their condition; and if their
attacbmnent to their native soil could be overcome,
which is doubtful, they would be likely to be
unhappy under circumstan ces requiring of them an
intellectual eSertion beyond their abilities.
Thins while Lord Cunningham desired to settle
upon something to make a permanent and beneficial
change on his estate, lie was tossed about by doubts
and misgivings.
The lease which Mr. Woods held was nearly ex-
pired, and Lord Cunningham resolved to renew it,
rent free, forever, in consideration of his kindness
toward Marion. Mr. Woods had a son, a line lad,
who was going to be apprenticed to Dr. Wilkins; but~
who showed so great a desire for travel, and possessed
so much intelligence for his age and condition, that
his lordship's heart warmed toward the boy, and lie
resolved to take him to Canada, if his father made no
objections. Objections were made, but overruled by
the lad, whose imagination could conceive of nothing
finer than a voyage like that. So it was settled lie
should go. Wliemi his lordship asked Marion how she
should like to have John Woods of their party, Jie an-
swered, " very much indeed I can then have a page."
"A page, my dear! and at your age! I fear John
will object to playing page to ami eight-year-old young
lady: he would sooner be an esquire to a lady of nine-
teen."
"When I am nineteen, then, I shall have John for
my esquire."

"IDo YOU admire John so much, then ~" asked his
lordship.
"I like him better than anybody I know, excepting
you, and nurse, and Dr. Wilkins ; and I think he is the
handsomest boy in the neighborhood. Do you not
think lie looks like the son of a lord ?" asked Marion,
earnestly.
"No," answered Lord Cunningham laughing, "he
looks quite too clever."
Though Marion did not understand this reason very
well, she was satisfied with it, and delighted at the
prospect of John for a companion, for she had no
doubt it was as a companion to her he was to go.
No better one could have been chosen, after her father
and the nurse; for John's gaiety, amiability and intel-
li gence were a great help to the rather feeble spirits
of the child, at that time.
The painful separation from her mother weighed on
the little girl's heart. Cold as her mother had been,
she had loved her with the natural love of childhood
for its payment; and regarded her, beside, as the pret-
tiest lady that she knew. Lady Cunningham was,
indeed, a handsome woman, and children are pleased
with beauty. She was fond of her father and grate.
ful for the increased kindness by which he endeavored
to make up for her loss of a ffiother; but, she was not
able fully to comprehend the feelings of resentment
which Lord Cunningham conceived it ahnost a duty
to entertain. The j udici6us course which her nurse
had always pursued, in trying to smooth over the
asperities of Lady Cunningham's disposition, had pre-
served the tender sentiments of childhood fresh in the


60       ThE ROMANCE OF AN IRISH GIRL;
child's heart. Always ready with an apology, when
some impatience had grieved her little heart, Lucy
had again and again assured her charge that her
mother was ill ; *or, perhaps, had not been scolded
when she was a child, and did not know that it
pained othei's to be reproved; awl so on, and so on-
always ready with an excuse, until the little girl really
regarded her mother as a person needing pity, and
was willing at any time to extend her own love and
compassion, should it ever prove acceptable.
Marion longed to ask her father to take her to the
castle Once, before ,going to America; but; intimate
as she was with him, and much as she was indulged,
she could not approach him on this subject. After
a vain attempt on one Or two occasions, she gave
up the hope in silent melancholy. Perhaps Lord
Cunningham thought to make the mother solicit an
interview with her outcast dan ghter, but he cherished
vain hopes in that regard.
Ireland was looking like a paradise during the last
weeks of their lingering. Nature, always lavish of
her verdure and flowers in the "green isle," was wear-
ing her loveliest colors then. The fields, spangled
with daisies, with bouquets of primroses and daffodils,
were in their mnost beautiful season: the hedges were
in their glory; and the low mountain ranges to the
south and east, formed a suitable frame for the pic-
ture of bounteous loveliness which it inclosed. The
sheep On the hills, the cattle in the meadows, the
children at their play, half naked as they were, were
all suggestive of peace and contentment. Indeed,
discontent is not a distinguishing trait of the Irish

0 R~ LIFE IN TWO WORLDS.        61

character. They are not a downcast people. Their
very begging is humorous; and the young ones who
stay willingly at home alone, during the four months
of the year that their mother ekes out their scanty
living by asking charity, are able to find happiness in
the company of a pig or a calf.
IIavin~ sent oft' a number of families of his tenants
b
to Canada as an experiment, and, by way of testing
their fitness for independence, without bringing them
under a new government, Lord Cunningham was
now On the eve of taking his Own departure, for a
length of tilne quite indefinite. ~he family of Mr.
Woods, grateful for the generosity of his lordship,
lm~sitated to express all the sorrow they felt at pai't-
ing from their eldest son and brother. Poor Scotch
Lucy smothered her desire to look upon her native
hills before committing herself to this long journey,
while Marion disguised her uneasiness at not seeing
her mother, as well as she could.
All rose early 011 the morning of their departure,
professedly to see the clouds rise off' the mountains
Once more-the last for a long time; but everybody
felt that it was a little ruse to gain time. Lord Gun-
nilighani had informed his lady as to the time of their
departure, perhaps ill the hope she might yet relent,
and come to take farewell of her child; but no sign
was muade that the mistress of the castle knew of the
departure; and the servants alone paid their young
mistress the compliment of a farewell. Those of' them
who had ever been about her person took the privilege
of kissing her, and their tears began to flow in true
Irish copiousmiess. The appearance of Pr. Wilkins

s
1


62        TILE ROMANCE OF AN IRISh GiRL'                                                                          63

62

put an end to these manifePations of regret, for the
gruff' doctor preferred swearing to crying, any time;
and, on this occasion set the example by indulging in
a few imprecations at the expense of the pooi' ser-
vants, whom he affected to blame for presumption.
The truth was, he inwardly rejoiced at an evidence
like this that it was by love and not fear that Cnn-
inughain held control over his people. A servant's
friend8h~ is not required by the aristocracy-only
their politeness and obedience: anything more than
that is felt to be oppressive to the aristocratic sense.
At last, the final adieux were made, and the coach
conveyed them to Enniskillen. At Enniskillen
they made a short stay to give the young folks,
John and Marion, an opportunity of seeing some
things whicl they had read about; among others,
the 01(1 castle that still bears some records, on its
moldering stones, of the times of 1688, when James
II. was urging a war of extermination against the
Protestants. here they sat down and talked over
the memorable events of that time, and sympathized
with those brave men and women who endured every
suffering that humanity is capal)le of, in the sieges
of their cities, especially at Londonderry. Enniskil-
len bore her part bravely, and tile Enniskilien Dra-
goons are famous in history. The situation of Ennis-
killen is upon an island in Lake Erne. It has some
very high hills in its vicinity, from which a better
view of tile lake and surrounding country may be had
than from any other point along its waters. Thither
the party proceeded, to take in the whole scene.
Here, too, Marion first saw the most striking con-

OE, LIFE iN TWO WORLDS.

tracts between splendor and ~vant; for the residences
of the rich were very costly, while every avenue to
this beautiful city swarmed with the blind, lame,
starved and naked population. Marion ao'ain
appealed to her tatlmer for all explanation of these
Sigilts, but his lordship seemed not inclined tJ enter
upon the subject.
"What if somebody in Canada should ask me
questions about Ireland, and I could not answer
tileul ?" urged Marion.
"Should you tell them what you have seen, they
will find an explanation for themselves," answered
her father.
"But they might not get tile rigllt reason, after
all," continued Marion.
Well, then, my daughter," said his lordship, with
a smile' "one reason of so uluch misery among the
lower classes, is in the tact that young ladies of railk
fancy tiley mnust have ladies' maids and pages to wait
upon theni, instead of waiting upon themselves ; and
young gentlemen must Ilave grooms aimd valets for
their convenience; and these servants must have
other servallts to wait upon them; and a large house
is required to hold all these people, besides furniture
and horses, and wines and good dinners. It takes
much money to keep up these mere acee.9sorte8 of
rank. It is by tile rcmmts of his lands that a lord pro-
cures this money, and not niltil these fine people are
willing to reduce the rents sufficiently to allow a por-
tion of the poor farmer's profits to go for his own
comfort, will there be a different condition of the
poor."

63


(34      THE ROMANCE OF AN IRISH GIRL;

Marion, who noticed that her father put an empha-
sis upon the word page, and remembered her propo-
sition to have John Woods for that office, could not
help feeling conscious of being rebuked, and dreaded
lest he should mention it before John. He was quite
satisfied to have teased her a little; and she asked no
more questions about inequality of riches.
But the knowh~dge of tImings, sadder even than
poverty, were pressing upon the youthful lady. It
happened while they were at Enniskillep that the
execution of seven criminals, and the transportation of
thirty more wei~e to take place. The town was hav-
ing a holiday on account of this melancholy event.
All classes seemed to partake in the excitement.
iLord Cunningham was pained to learn that one of
tIme criminals about to suffer death, was one Gabbat,
an amiable young man, who had been* his guest at
the time oYMarion's christening. His lordship took
some pamils to ascertain the particulars of hi~ crime
and irmisfortune.
It appeared, upon inquiry into the young man's
history, that an unequal marriage-that fruitful
source of domestic misery in Great Britain-had been
the first cause of the poor fellow's bad ending. lie
had followed .a fancy for the daughter of his father's
footman; and, finding her virtuous, had married her.
As a consequence, he had been turned off without a
~shilling. Without money or a knowledge of any
kind of business, and not being able to do hard labor,
Gabbat found it next to impossible to live; but for
the exertions of his more experienced wife, he would
have been forced to starve. Taunted h)y his father.

OR~ LWE IN TWO WORLDS          65
who was determined to make him an example to the
other children-hired by his own brothers to (10
ditching, and, in every way humiliated, he was not
long in making up his mind to have money, by fitir
means or foul. Money, he had learned, was the
lever which moves society, and money he would yet
obtain, in spite of his father's hardness toward
him.
As the easiest beginning, lie invested what means
lie could borrow from his father-in-law, in a genteel
establishment for the sale of liqnors, and playing of
games. By the same means he had known of others
making fortunes; and, if his high breeding sometimes
revolted, lie remembered it was quite as respectable as
hard labor amid more remunerative. lie meant, too, to
make some money at play, though he knew that, for
a pour man to do this, was a high offence against
good morals and good order. lie had often played
with the clergyman who baptized him, and had made
up his mind to think it quite as honorable to play
with sporting men as mimiisters, even though a minis-
ter's winnings were usually considered sacred, like
his tithes. So poor Gabbat set up for himself in this
rather dubious business, and, by practice, soon be-
came an expert player; but his generosity and
nubusinesshike habits prevented the rapid acquisition
of fortune lie had lmopcd for.
He used to tell an anecdote of his family to his
associates, in illustration of the family talent for play.
His grandfather had played with the Bislm )~ of Dren-
mare for his daughter, to give to his son, and had
won her; and she, being of higher family than the


66       TIlE ROMANCE OF AN IRISH GIRL*
Gabliats, had been of great benefit to the connec-
tion.
So much for play ! But all its events arc not so
happy. Gabbat had an associate named Stinson,
who was a good player, and a shrewd, unj)rineipled
fellow. Whenever his fricud had bcen fortunate
with others, and had any money on hand, Stinson
was sure to know it~ and pretty sure to win a portion
of it a~vay roin him.
One evening, liavin g just won quite a large sum,
and feeling himself on the road to fortune more
surely than ever before, Gabbat was asked to play by
his wily friend, Stinson. For some time, Stinson
lost, but when the liquor circulated a little more
freely, had a new turn of luck, and won not only
what he had lost, but all that Gabbat had won for
some time. having nothing to go on with, the ganie
was closed for the night. Stinson had allowed him-
self to become very much intoxicated, and knowing
that he could not pass the guards in that condition,
Gabbat offered him a bed in his house, which was
accepted.
When the house was quite still, the disappointed
young man sat down to reflect upon his losses. The
more he thought upon them, the more he felt unable
to endure them. Then came the temptation to take
back his money while Stinson slept. His intoxicated
condition led Gabbat to think that he would not
remember the events of the evening, nor miss the
money he had won while under the influence of
liquor. In vain his wife entreated him to go to
bed; still he sat brooding~; and when he thought

OR, LIFE IN TWO WORLDS.        67

she, too, was asleep, entered his guest's room
softly, and succeeded in getting possession of the lost
riches. Perceiving that there was something over,
he was stopping to replace that, when Stinson 511(1-
denly awakened, quite sober, and sprang out of bed
in alarm, thinking perhaps he was going to be mur-
dered. In the struggle which ensued, Gabbat cried
out to his wife that he should be killed; and she, not
knowing the cause of the assault, ran to his rescue
with a loaded butt, with which she struck Stinson upon
the head a number of times, until the unfortunate
man fell lifeless upon the floor. Overcome by emo-
tions of the most painful nature, the wife fainted beside
her victim, while her husband, perceiving the danger
of his situation, immediately fled, leaving her to her
fate. It was a melancholy one indeed. Upon awaken-
ing and finding herself lying in the blood of the mur-
dered man, the poor woman lost her reason entirely,
and became a raving maniac. The police that were
set upon the search for Gabbat were not long in dis-
covering his whereabouts, and. he was now about to
suffer the penalty of crime. His family utterly
abandoned him as unworthy their compassion; and
upon the father and mother of the poor crazed wife
fell not only the sorrow, but the blame. "had he
not married a low person," says aristocracy, "he
would never have met with such ~ fate. Poverty
and crime are always united;. if one ever hears of a
person of no consequence doing well, it is through
the intervention of some great person of benevolent
ideas, whose protection saved them from following
out their natures I,'


68       THE ROMANCE OF AN IRISH GIRL*
"Why, then," it might be asked, "is not this
charity more frequently extended; and why is it
withheld from your own sons or daughters who have
dared to go athwart your desires or opinions ?"
This pitiful story of poor Gabbat gave Thrd Cun-
ningham but little inclination to prolong his stay in
that vicinity, and hurrying on to Dublin, he has-
tened to put hanging, transporting, poverty, crime,
poverty-suffering, riches, responsibility all out of
his mind, by embarking on board a ship bound 'for
Halifax. But he could not so easily settle the ques-
tion which haunted him; "how could Sir James
Gabbat reconcile his own avowed belief; and his pro-
fessions of religious feeling, with his conduct toward
his son ?" Often had the old man reproved Gun-'
niughamn for neglecting to teach the doctrines of
religion to his daughter, young as she was. He
never failed to say "by God's leave," in making an
appointment, and ~vent through with all religious
observances with regularity. He was, too, a pleasant-
spoken and apparently kind-hearted man; yet, when
his own son was in prison, as the result of dis-
obedience to Aim, he refused to go near, saying "he
respected society; and if his son had violated its
laws, he must suffer the consequences without inter-
ference; for his part, he desired to see the guilty
punished, even though it was his own flesh and
blood." Did the old man all this time forget that,
but a few years previous, he had followed an offimd-
ing servant with murderous intent into his wife's
chamber where the frightened creature had fled for
refuge, and~ struck him down dead before her eyes;

OR, LIFE IN TWO WOWLD5.         69

'1

and then had taken refuge behind that English law
which says "a man may kill another man whom he
finds in his wife's bed ;" allowing the scandal to go
out about his own wife, rather than suffer justice in
person.
Verily, this self-righteousness is horribly repulsive
to a candid nature. It argues, in itself, something mo-
rally wrong in the possessor.
Ireland has faded from sight of the voyagers, and
with it are banished from remembrance her social sins
as well as her physical sufferings. Late events had
conspired to give Lord Cunningham's mind at one of
sadness; and the conversation of some of the American
passengers was not calculated to soothe a man already
irritable from the action of causes to which these talk-
ative strangers were constantly ret'erring. Gradually,
however, the conversation of John and Marion began
to draw his attention and interest: and the more they
observed his returning cheerfulness, the more they
endeavored to amuse him. Marion had by nature a
playful disposition, and when allowed to piii'~iC it,
often engaged in frolic. These exhibitions of animal
spirit gave the good Lucy sonic trouble ; inasmuch
as she considered herself responsible for the correct
deportment, and lady-like manners of her young
charge. Seeing the apparent carelessness of his lord-
ship, she had all the more anxiety. But good Lucy
need not have feared for Lord Cunningham's daugh-
ter: he was never so forgetful that lie did not regard
her words and actions, and she very well knew the
expression of his eye, which said "hold, enough !"
Lucy thought it somewhat singular too, that his lord-


70       THE ROMANCE OF AN IRISH GIRL;                                    OR~ LIFE IN TWO WORLDS.         71

ship could witness the growing attachment of his
daughter for the handsome farmer's son, without
apprehending the danger of future consequences.
Whatever Cunningham thought, the extreme youth
of Marion was no guaranty: she had known children
no older than the young lady become irretrievably
attached to companions of the other sex when al-
lowed unrestrained freedom of intercourse. If he
wanted to avoid a misalliance for his daughter, he
must take a different course with her, and teach her
greater distinction of rank.
Whatev5 the father thought on the subject, he
said nothing, nor did he alter his management.
Marion continued to take delight in the boy's com-
panionship, and to amuse herself now with treating
him like a lord, and now like a servant, but every
way with the greatest affection.

4

ChAPTER VIII.
DURING the voyage, which was a pleasant erie,
Lady Cimninghain was cherishing her wrath in lone-
liness and bitterness of spirit. Her strange, unhappy
temper prevented d her own enjoyment, quite as much
as that of others-or even more: for it is impossible
for evil thoughts to escape from themselves. The
displeasure which Lord Cunningham had shown in
so marked and public a manner had truly been a
great trial to her ladyship's pride-none the easier' to
bear, for. having been deserved. In vain she says to
herself, she is not a servitor of public opinion ; in
vain she declares that no one shall teach her her
duty; she is nevertheless miserably sensitive to the
horror of being esteemed a monster of cruelty, and
resents the means employed for her humiliation more
than if it had been corporeal punishment.
In the mean time, Lord Charles Elia was gloating
over the success of his machinations. his designs
were more than fulfilling themselves; since not only
Marion's disfigurement, but the estrangement of his
lordship, had resulted from his schemes. It renmairied
now only for him to continue the game so successfully
begun, to complete an undreamed of revenge upon
Lord Cunningham. knowing that Lady Curmingl iam
had always shown courtesy toward his family, he I)re-
sumed upon the privilege of visiting her. Affecting
not to know what had happened, he began by in-

70

71


1 ~     'rilE ROMANCE OF AN IRISH
quiring after his lordship, who, he said, he had been
told, had returned from his voyage to America. Quite
deceived by the scoundrel's palavei', Lady Cunning-
ham explained his coning and departure; and was
lcd on insensibly step by step, by artful questions, to
divulge the whole story of her difficulties with his
lordship. She was suffered to believe herself the
most injured and most tenderly sympathized-with
woman in the world. lie spoke kindly and affec-
tionately of Marion, in whom he had a godfather's
interest; reprovingly of Lord Cunningham, who had
so unjustly brought blame upon a lady of her known
amiability of character. In his flatteries, Lord Elia
Was very prudent; for no one ever doubted the
chastity and modesty of Lady Cunningham's mind.
He only wanted to make an impression that she
had no more anxious or tender personal friend than
himself; and, poor lady! she felt herself so much
in need of friendship, that she was all the more
easily misled as to the character of this villain's mo-
tives. Lord Ehia hoped that Lady Cuniiinghiam
would renew her acquaintance with his mother,
now that she was so much at liberty; and her lady-
ship promised; not only because she had resolved to
be intimate with the Ehia family, but because Lady
Elia was really a lovely woman, and, in the present
softened state of her feelings, she longed for some
coml)anionship.
When, by many arts and blandishments, Lord
Charles Elia had succeeded in gaining the perfect
confidence of the unhappy, but not suspicious or art-
ful lady, lie began to create for her a new cause of

OR~ LIFE IN Two WORLDS.          73

uneasiness. Having heard of the lad Woods who
had accompanied Lord Cunningham abroad, he care-
lessly at first, and seriously afterward, announced
his belief that it was his lordship's intention to edi-
cate this young man, and give him his daughter in
marriage. He gave good reasons for such a conjec-
ture, and, at last, ~ncceeded in convincing Lady C.
of the probability of this scheme-matrimonial. "it
comported," she said, "with his character in gene-
ral, to prefer an alliance for his daughter of this sort;
rather than one of a proper, or more respectable rank.
He had insisted on making his daughter a plain and
humdrum, common sort of girl, instead of bringing
her up according to her position in society; and now
it would doubtless turn out that he ~vould marry her
to a commoner, perhaps to a beggar." But the more
Lady Cunningham thought of the probability of such
an event, the more she resolved it never should hap-
pen. She Itad some interest in her own child, and
that was to see that she did not humble her mother
by a low connection.
Thus did Elia succeed in fermenting other discords
in the family of the detested lord, who had had the
temerity to interfere between him and helpless,
injured womanhood. The affair of Mary Fowler soon
passed out of the minds of those who had once been
cognizant of it; and the popularity of the Elias was
no longer affected by it. Indeed, such is the truth
of the proverb-" kissing goes by favor "-that it
was now Lord Fowler instead of Lord Ella who was
out of favor with the aristocracy, partly on account
of having asked for the repeal of certain laws whieh
4


74       VfJ~ ROMANCE OF AN IRISH GIRL;

OR, LIFE IN TWO WORLDS.

he felt to be a disgrace to the nation; but more
because the aristocrats could not forgive his conces-
sions in favor of his "low-minded" son. however
much some just-minded persons might regret the lax
morals of a great portion of the peerage, to admit that
they ought to be put upon an equality with common-
ers, even in the matter of punishment for crime, would
be to establish a dangerous precedent; not more
dangerous, however, than that of receiving upon
equal teritis the children of the lower classes, who
had some good blood in their veins. The principle
waN to keep the blood of the peerage pure; their
moral were not of so much consequence.
Whatever faults Lady Cunningham was possessed
of, the circumstances of her marriage with Lord C.
did slightly extenuate, even to his lordship, who was,
by all means, the greatest sufferer. Lord C. was not
her heart's choice, but accepted upon compulsion,
when her heart was bruised and bleeding from a cruel
wound, whether inflicted purposely by her father, or
the decree of Providence, she never felt assured.
Upon tIme field of Waterloo, a friend of her father's-
Forney by name-received his death-hurt, and in his
last moments bequeathed the care of his young son, a
lad of twelve years, to his best and most confidential
friend. The young Abdell Forney, a gentleman by
birth, and heir of a handsome fortune, was received
with great kindness, and treated as a son, by his guar-
dian. Lady Marga~m'et was of nearly equal years, amid
the friendship of childhood ripened into a warmer
attachment as the young people arrived at years
of romance together. Indeed, there seemed no obsta-

cle in the way of their union; so they affianced them-
selves, and rested secure in the prospect of consuinma-
ting their wishes at some early future day. But all
at once, Lady Margaret's father n~ade the discovery
that his ward would be without fortune, and forbade
the lovers thinking any further of marriage. The
blow fell heavily upon both of them ; for they under-
stood how useless are appeals from time parties most
interested in cases like.this. Youmyg Forney was sent
away on some pretence; a measure which resulted in
a dangerous illness to Lady Margaret. But the
father was ineXoral)lC, and upon her convalescence
immediately introduced to her Lord Charles Cunning-
ham, as her future husband. Time greatness and sud-
denness of the blow which had fallen upon her, seemed
to have stupefied her faculties for the time, and she
made no resistance to 'her fate. Neither would
resistance have benefited her, as the whereabouts of
her lover was unknown to her, and even the last*
resort, of an elopement, was out of her powel.. Ere
lung, n~~vs of his death came, which put an end to all
hope or shadow of hope, and the unhappy lady gave
herself up to the current of her destiny to bear her
where it would.
In a short time she was married to Lord Cunning-
ham, who, never having been informed of tIme state
of her feelings, was entirely unprepared for the man-
ncr in which she received his demonstrations of
affection. Indeed, she was herself ignorant of the true
state of her own mind, until in making time effort to
overcome her repugnance, she aroused herself to a
consciousness that she was not tIme ~ being she


76       THE ROMANCE OF AN IRISH GulL;
supposed she had become, but a woman, with a bit-
ter sense of' injury rankling in her soul, and a heart
pining for release from the fetters imposed upon her.
She was foolish enough to say many things which
reflected unjustly upon Lord Cunningham, who was
in no wise to blame; and which had the effect of
wounding and estranging him, without procuring her
any benefits. Yet, with a strange contradictoriness,
she resented the coldness she had provoked; and
really exacted such marks of attachment as would
have satisfied the most tender and jealous wife.
Lord Cunningham, out of a generous pity for her
unhappiness, had systematically carried himself in
such a manner as to avoid giving her pain; though,
as her fickleness of temper increased, lie found him-
self obliged to exercise his own views of right occa-
sionally where they conflicted with hers. Domestic
unhappiness increased with every month; for it is an
unalterable rule that the more selfishness and injus-
tice are indulged, the more exacting and unreason-
able they become. Any man less generous or for-
bearing would have thrown off entirely all effort to
conciliate this captious and uneasy disposition; but,
pity for her weakness and her sorrows had obtained
for her every indulgence except the one of extending
her caprice and want of affection to her child. On
that rock, their forced and unnatural union split.
Notwithstanding her own experience, Lady Cunning-
ham would have pursued the same tyrannical course
that had ruined her happiness; so true is it that
despotic parents make despotic children-that the
wrongs of one generation revenge themselves on the
next.

OR, LIFE IN TWO WORLDS.

CHAPTER IX.
HArPILY oblivious of the jealousy and malice at
work against him at home, Lord Cunningham arrived
safely at Quebec, where he met many familiar faces.
Some of them lie ~vas surprised at meeting, for he
was aware of no cause which could have called them
away from the mother country. Others were there on
legitimate business; but a certain social phase,
entirely unexpected by him, presented itself to his
notice, which on his first hasty visit had been un-
known to him. lie was justingly accused of having
left Lady Cunningham to take his freedom in the
Canadas, and upon inquiry and observation it
appeared that he was only suspected because the fact
was one of frequent occurrence, even among men of
rank and fortune. iNiany temporary marriages had
taken place, and some were cases of permanent
desertion of wives and families at home to enjoy the
society of some more beloved woman, which the
social customs of Great Britian would not have
allowed them to marry, even had they been free.
An Irish gentleman from Fermanagh County, lire-
land, was one of the first acquaintances Cunningham
saw in public, and he was surprised at what was evi-
dently the gentleman's reluctance to meet him.
Upon his arm was a fine-looking woman of genteel
carriage, whom he presumed to be his wife, though
he was unacquainted with her. Not long after get-

I


73       T~ ROMANCE' OF AN IRISh GIRL;
ting this glimpse of his old acquaintance, his lord-
ship received a call from him and heard the explana-
tion of the avoidance at their first meeting. The
lady was one he had married in this country,
although his first wife was still living at home in
ignorance of the connection. She was a woman he
had never loved-whom, in fact, he disliked, but to
whom he had been married by his parents on account
of her immense wealth. Finding himself more
miserable than he cared to acknowledge, he had
made som9 business in the province and came here
to get away from the presence of his wife, leaving
her in the enjoyment of her wealth and own peculiar
tastes. At first he had no intention of making
another connection; but becoming acquainted with
this lady whom his lordship had seen, he found he
was still capable of loving ardently, and had married
her as she supposed honorably and legally. Occa-
sionally he visited Ireland for a few months, but
most of his time was spent here in the enjoyment of
his stolen and unsanctified happiness.
Here was another development of the workings
of a system of marriages by rank or wealth! Cun-
ningham was shocked to discover how many English,
Jrish and Scotch were guilty of the same departure
from civil and religious law. In vajn he made
appeals to the sense of moral obligations, taken on
with the marriage relation; in nearly every instance
they declared themselves irresponsible agents in tho'
matter of their original contracts, and only bound by
conscience to keep one made freely and with their
own approval.

OR~ LIFE IN TWO WORLDS.        79
Lord Cunningham thought of Lady Margaret, and
sighed.
Nd all the excuses made by these men, of wrongs
endured at the llan(IS of parents, wives, mothers-hi-
law, or other relatives, served to convince Lord Cnn-
niughain of the correctness of such practices. Its
moral effect, sooner or later, would he most seriously
felt, lie longed, too, to enlighten the innocent native
girls, who were drawn into these unlawful bonds,
blindly. Yet he ~~frained~~thinking the evil was
one no interference of his could now cure, although
it might hasten on unforeseen disasters in which they
would be overwhelmed along with their guilty de-
ceivers.
A worse thing even than this came under his
observation shortly after his conversation with -
of Ireland. While walking in one of the fashion-
able streets, he met a Miss M-, daughter of an
English gentleman whom he had known well a few
years before. Miss M-, ~as very fashionably
dressed, and at first he accosted her, thinking she
might be the wife of some gentleman residing in that
country; but, her embarrassment at being recognized
led him to make inquiries, and finally her history
became known to him. A difficulty with her father,
arising from her refusal to accept of a husband she
despised, had occasioned her banishment to Canada,
where she arrived without money or friemids. It
being well known in Canada that many women
guilty of crimes are sent, or escape to that country,
the fact of her arrival, friendless and in want, instead
of exciting compassion, operated against her. Her


80       TE ROMANCE OF AN IRISh GIRL;

beauty and good-breeding were another evidence
against her. Indeed, it appeared upon investigation,
that very few girls of the latter sort escaped the fate
which befell Miss M-
At first she found work in a farmer's family, having
been rejected in town. Here it turned out, as might
have been expected, that her superior manners
excited the jealousy of the women and the admira-
tion of the men. The man at whose house she
worked, commenced by treating her With more defer-
ence than an ordinary rough country girl. His wife's
jealousy took the opposite course. He paid Miss
more attention than ever. She scolded
both him and Miss M-. Miss M- cried,
and lie took her part. She was more furious than
ever, and declared her husband was false to her.
Hereupon there was a general misunderstanding,
and Miss M- left her temporary home in des-
pair.
After this inauspicious beginning, Miss M-~---
made several ineffectual attempts to obtain employ-
ment. The suspicion of being "no better than she
should be," which was strengthened by the unfortu-
nate d6no~iment of her service at his place, prevented
her being received in~to families, and helpless and not
knowing what to do, she did the worst thing she
could have done, because it was the only alternative
offered. When it is remnein bered that the human
life will not long hold out against hunger, that ban-
ishment from home, the suspicion of strangers and
the persuasions of a libertine combined, make up a
pretty strong argument, it is hoped the poor outcast

80

OR~ LIFE IN TWO WORLDS.        Si
will not be set down as hopelessly depraved from the
first. The history of Miss M- is that of hun-
dreds whose names ought to be other than Cypri-
enfle.
In. reply to Lord Cunningham's remonstrance5, and
offers of help to live a better life, the lost girl answered
that ~he had lost her confidence in human nature, and
doubted it was ever intended she should live happily
and virtuously. If so, why did her father cast her
upon the world in the way he did? Did he not know
the probable end? God, who made her, suffered it.
People whom she knew talked very piously of the
sons and daughters of want and sorrow, yet never
soiled their dainty fingers, restraining one from vice
or the other from ruin. With quiet force, they held
the poor wretches down to their doom; then sancti-
moniously concluded that "if they had done right,
they would have come out right in the~ end." She
had gone to a minister of the Gospel in her days of
greatest want, and told him all her cruel story, and
begged him to give her work to keep her from hun-
ger or shame; and had been told that it would be an
injury to the cause of Christ to have her in his family,
as people were so suspicious. She then begged his
aid in finding a respectable home. ile advised her
to repent of her s~n5, and pray much. Such was
his care for her soul !-such was the ear the world
gave her, body and soul! No, she would not repent
noW. She had been compelled to this; Christian
women bad been as heartless to her as stone; now
she had her revenge in corrupting their husbands.
At all this terrible talk, Cunningham was grievously
4*


82       TIlE ROMANCE OF AN iuisu GIRL;
shocked. As a last test, he offered to write to her
former lover a history of her case, and make an ap-
peal to his affection to come and rescue her. The
poor girl was distracted with this promise, and her
mental struggles between shame and love, hope aud
despair, were afflicting to witness. But she entered
into an engagement to live in virtuous seclusion for a
period of time sufficient to allow of the proposed cor-
respondence; and, to the credit of humanity be it
spoken, her lover, with full knowledge of her sins and
their cause, sent her his promise to come for her at
the end of one year, which she was to devote to
moral purification and preparation for marriage-a
promise which he kept. The parties took up their
residence in another part of Canada.
Lord Cunningham had seen the landing of some of
his emigrants. Poor creatures! He almost re-
pented having induced them to make the experi-
ment. Here he obtained his first experimental
knowledge of an emigrant ship, and great was his
grief and indignation when lie beheld the accommo-
dations given to these poor people. Ten pounds stir-
ling was the price of the tickets, yet if the vessel had
been an African slaver her passengers could not have
fared worse. The sight of its horrors was enough for
a lifetime. Six hundred emigrants stowed into a
place where fifty could not live cori~fortably-all
without beds, blankets, or any other necessary thing.
What a government, to provide so luxuriously for
her children! Ten deaths had occurred among his
people, and forty-one more were not able to land.
Then there came the speculators who meet these

OR, LIFE IN Two wORLDS.          83
ships as they come in, offering to buy such goods as
tire emigrants have to sell. How the poor Irishman
gets cheated selling linen for a certain number of shil-
lings, and finding an English shilling and an American
shilling are two different coins!
Then there is the scene on first landing, when the
'poor ocean-tossed emni~rant cannot tell whether the
b
earth is under his feet or not, for it pitches and heaves
with him just the same as the ocean did. "holy
mother !" is his despairing cry, "would I were safe in
green Ireland again."
They huddle together, and try to give each that
comfort lie is in want of himself; but everything is
new and strange; they are dizzy, and sick, and worn
out, so they all sit down together, and take a good
Irish cry over their common trouble.
The cmi grants were landed at Montreal, at a place
called the Irishman's Inn. It is one of the curiosities
of Lower Canada, covering a large tract of land-
nearly thirty acres-and consisting of ranges of sheds
without doors or windows. A board off the side
serves to let in light, and an open space is left for the
door. When families arrive, a~ much space is
measured off as they require, and a mark is made so
as to distinguish their claim. There are no con-
veniences for cooking, and their culinary operations
are carried on out of doors. Much borrowing and
lending goes on, to eke out the neighbors' housekeep-
ing. Though the Irish may light, they also love to
oblige each other. The beds for these tenants of tire
Irishman's Inn are trunks and boxes. Frequently
some of them are ill from the effects of this miserable


84       Tni~ ROMANCE OF AN IRISH GIRL;
way of living, and many contract diseases which pur-
sue them to the grave in a short time.
But the Irishman's curse is liquor-drinking, and it
is carried on extensively at this famous resort, where
goes to meet a friend or get a word from home.
Relatives or not, the Irish are all brothers, and the
popular mode of expressing regard is by offering "a
treat ;" therefore it is no uncommon thing for ten
barrels of whisky to ho consumed at the Inn in
twenty-four hours. The only time when quiet reigns
at this celebrated resort is from four to eight in the
morning, ~vl~en intoxicated men are lying about in
all directions, watched over by their female friends,
who are anxious enough that they should sleep mitil
their husbands or brothers are sober, that they may
not be beaten.
But it is useless to recapitulate all the terrible or
disgusting exhibitions which may trace their causes
back to the guilty negligence or cruel despotism of
the English government. Suffice it to say, they were
frequent and numerous enough to make Lord Cun-
ningham blush for his country; while he admitted
the justice of the American rebuke to England for
interfering with slavery-" Look to the condition of
your white elctves 1"
The care of his children, as lie now called John and
Marion collectively, was his lordship's only solace,
burdened as his mind was with domestic and civil
difficulties.

OR~ LIFE IN Two WORLDS.         85

CHAPTER X.
A NUMBER of years passed, and Lord Cunningham
continued to reside abroad; carrying on business
both for himself and the government by means of
correspondence, leaving Lady Cunningham to un-
disputed possession of the estate, and her own plea-
sures - a course which pleased her ladyship ~vell
enough in some respects.
In the meantime, John Woods, who is now under-
stood to be his lordship's adopted son, has come to be
a young man of fine personal appearance and mental
qualifications. his lordship even had it in contem-
plation to purchase a title for him; but was deterred
by his scruples about making one of nature's noble-
men a parasite of the English aristocracy. After-
ward, when Marion remembered the liberality of her
father's sentiments on this sbbject, she was at a loss
to account for his subsequent action in the same
matter of rank; but presumed that the effect of
hereditary belief and early education was stronger
even than deliberate conviction.
To return: Marion as well as John had improved
kwith' years and careful training in their quiet Cana-
dian home; until she had already begun to be looked
upon as being of a marriageable age, by certain of
the young scions of nobility in that country, as well
as by one other not so young.
Sir Robert Nelson, an intimate friend of her father's,


86       TilE ROMANCE ~F AN misit GIRL;
first betrayed that lie harbored such an idea, by re-
f'erriig to ti ic current gosSip about the probable at-
tachinent I)CtWeen his loi'd~Iiip'~ aQOJ)ted son and his
(laughter. Lord Cunninghaiii appeared incredulous
and Sir Robert pressed his opinion. It was evident
he expected the news to displease his lordship, and
make him anxious to dispose of his daughter to a
nobler suitor. But Cunningham only treated the
suggestion as being of no consequence, or without
sufficient evidence to be at all alarming. Never-
theless, it is not improbable that he was influenced by
the representations of Sir Robert to talk of separating
the children, as lie still persisted in calling them, for
he began to be niuch more observing of their inter-
course than ever before ; still refusing, however, to
listen to any insinuations from Lucy Or Sir Robert,
that the young people were "in love" with each
other. "My daughter is not 01(1 enough to have a
serious passion," lie would say; "until she is, I shall
not interfere with her youthful fancies."
"how, old must a young lady be, to be old enough
to imagine herself hi love? and to imagine one's self
in that state of feeling, is just as dangerous as being
there," was Sir Robert's answer.
"Describe the symptoms, Sir Robert," demanded
Lord Cunningham.
"The indications, I thought, were known to every
one; but, if I must be more explicit," said Sir Ro-
bert, turning rather redder than usual, " they are those
which you see in myself."
"What am I- to understand?" asked Lord Cun-
ningham.

*

OR~ LIFE IN TWO WORLDS.         87
"That I love your daughter, and desire to marry
her I,'
"Impossible! Marion does not think of marriage
yet; until she does so, I shall never introduce t1~~
subject. I am in no haste to part with my only
daughter. When I do, it ~vill be at her own sug-
gestion, or upon an intimation from her that she
desires to leave me for some one she loves better; an
event which is not likely to happen with one so much
older as yourself, Sir Robert."
This answer, or the latter part of it, nettled Sir
Robert a good deal.
"You will prove, I fear, an un~vise father," said he,
coldly. "Every one but yourself can see the result.
I offered to save your daughter, whom I love, from a
misalliance, which she is now likely to form at any
moment. Allow me to say that, not only myself,
but all your friends, think you are doing altogether
a foolish thing in permitting Lady Marion to be as-
sociated so intimately with any young man, not a
relative, whom you do not intend her to marry.
Also, that you are encouragilig false hopes in this
young person's mind ; who, flattered by your patron-
age, and treated like a son, has evidently forgotten
that lie is not a nobleman I)orn. One of these days
lie will awaken to the truth; them will come the
struggle, and in that struggle you will lose your
daughter."
"Ii trust my daughter understands her duty, sir;
let us make an end of this matter."
Although his lordship dismissed the subject in this
summary manner, it evidently had not passed out of


88       TIlE ROMANCE OF AN IRISH GIRL;                               OR, LiFE IN TWO WORLDS.        SO

his mind; for, as a result of his reflections, John
Woods was sent on a mission to Ireland.
Sir Robert, now having the ground entirely to him-
self, and having already gained a strong point, con-
tinued to beset Lord Cunningham with arguments,
and his daughter with attentions, which were ac-
cepted by her in entire innocence, she attributing
these favors to the friendship existing between Sir Ro-
bert and her father. Matters could not long go on in
this way, and a crisis in affairs was about to happen.
The persevering lover addressed himself to Lord
Cunningham for a final answer, and Lord Cunning-
ham promised to see his daughter. Going to her
while she was at her books one day, lie alarmed her
by the pallor of his countenance, and the unusual
reserve of his manner, which to her was always frank
and open. "What is the matter, my father," she
asked ; "have you heard bad news?" and the bound
her heart gave made her conscious what kind of ill
news she dreaded the most.
"There is nothing to alarm you, my child," an-
swered his lordship with only a half smile ; "the
errand I came upon I trust will prove a pleasant one
to you. I am the bearer of a proposal of marriage
from Sir Robert Nelson to Lady Marion Cunning-
ham ; what ha e you to say to it, my clear?"
"I am so surprised I can say nothing'" answei'ed
Marion.
"But I have come expressly to have you say
either yes or no. Sir Robert thinks lie has made a
favorable impression, and he is in every way what
we call a good match. I have promised him my in-

fluence, and now use it, by telling you that I expect
you to accept his addresses."
"Gracious heaven! I eanuot," cried Marion, turn-
ing deadly pale.
" Your reason, Marion ?"
"Every reasons: diflerence of age, tastes, opinions,
and all other reasons. Indeed, my father, I cannot
receive Sir Robert's addresses."
"And my wishes have no influence with-you ?'~
"Yes, all, any one's could ; but this. is something
where I cannot be influenced."
"Very well, Marion; I shall report to Sir Robert.
By the way, it is talked of that John will marry a
daughter of Lord John Fowler. Lord John has
written to me to ask if I intend to apportion him
and asks me to complete the arrangements for John's
marriage. I shall do nothing of the kind at present,
however. If John wishes to marry Lord Fowler's
daughter, who is only half-blood, any way, I see no
great objection, but I am not going to put him into the
market by apportioning him, until I see how he turns
out in his new position.
Marion was distressed by this interview. She could
see that her father was leaning toward the aristocracy
in making plans for her future marriage. And these
rumors about John, certainly meant something inimi-
cal to her happiness; though she had no fears that he
was false or forgetful. She had witnessed intrigue
all her life. She was aware of the regular market
made of marriageable children; and, in spite of her
father's liberal sentiments, she had a presentiment of
danger. But the blow had not yet fallen.


90       THE IZOMANCI~ OF AN IJUSII GIUL
Sir Robert took Lady Marion's ans~ver in great dis-
pleasure, declaring lainiselt SO annoyed by it, that he
must set out I~r Ireland iInnie(liately, which he did.
Ills ralicor against John WOO(lS was OXCQSSiVC, re-
gardiughim, as he did, as the real cause of his hunijija-
tion. Arrived at home, he inuinediately soil!ht Lady
Cunningham, with the (louble 1411'Pose ot avenging
himself and annoying her, by representing the infit-
tuation of Lord Cunningham and Marion with regar(l
to "that Irish ber'~'tr" whose Success in a certain
direction had so interfered with his ~wn. In Lady
Cunningham lie fiu~nd a ready liste~iier amid sympa-
thizing friend. She, in her turn, found listeners and
sympathizers among the Elias, Crotons and others of
her set.
Sir Robert was amused to find that there was a
report of the cider Lord Elia's con version-f f not to
Christianity, at least to something like humanity.
Some were malicious enough to say that the immedi-
ate cause of his reform was a beating received from
a poor Irishman whoni lie had brutally insulted. his
own account was that a dream had opened his e~cs to
a knowledge of his duty, and that this dream hial)pened
on the occasion of a visit from Lady Cunningham.
her ladyship greatly admired his residence, and ex-
pressed herself' delighted with its location on an island,
which kept away the multitude of l)eggars that were
then besetting every rich man's residence in Ireland,
for the country was in a starving condition. Lord
Ehia loved cruelty, and loved Comnplimiients; but lie
thought her ladyship evinced an unwomanly spirit of
hatred toward the poor; and, on retiring to his couch

OR, LIFE IN TWO WORLDS.        91
that night, he had a singular dream concerning the
condition of his spiritual affairs.
LORD ELlA 5 DREAM.
lie thought the day of final judgment had come,
and that the "gmeen isle of' Erin" was quite se})arate
from all other portions of the globe, and its people to
be judged by themselves. The Rachites and Ribbon
men were first judged, and after them, all that had
perished for want of food. In a large book, open be-
fore the Judge, was a perfect record of accounts-of
the labor performed, and the wages received l)y the
poor. The book also recorded the miames of land-
holders and the amount of their possessions. Was
God going to form an aristocracy of riches in heaven?
When the record had all been looked over before
the multitude, Christ appeared with garments and
crowns of righteousness for the poor, who had suffered
martyrdom at the hands of the rich! promising them
to be made priests an(l kings in the heavenly world
while many of this world's priests and kings were
sent away into black darkness, dmsrobcd and un-
crowned. When his doom was pronounced, the sen-
tence was, that he should remain forever upon his
chosen island; while, on looking about him, lie per-
ceived Loch Erne to have turned into a sea of fire, and
his watch-dogs into fiery dragons, and his servants
into so many serpents to hiss at him. Food was let
down to him in a basket, that when it caine almost
within his reach, emptied its contents into th~ lake
before his famishing eyes. Maddened by despair, he


92       THE ROMANCE OF AN IRISh GIRL;
sought to find his wife to comfort him, but, in her
stead, found the vindictive Lady Cunningham, who
would cling about him in spite of his disgust. The
struggle to fi'ec himself from her society, fixially awoke
his lordship in a repentant state of mind ; and lie
made haste to remove his dogs, and the most cruel of
his servants, as a peace-ofl~ring to eternal justice.
lIe also forbade all the waste food being thrown into
the lake as heretofore, and ordered it given to the
poor; and was almost in danger of forsaking his evil
pi'actices.
The good Lady Elia made haste to take advantage
of this new mood, to minister to the wants of the suf-
fering wretches who thronged about the estate at this
good news; and many a poor creature, rescued from
death by starvation, thanked her gentle ladyship with
tears and blessings.
But, this reformation was only partial, for the old
lord had become so hard a drinker, and liquor made
him so furious, that it was unsafe to venture to ad-
dress him on any charitable subject late in the day.
his dream still worked upon his mind; and, when he
was drunk, he swore terribly at the Irish for usurping
so high a place in the honors of the next world.
The result of Sir IRobert~s representations concern-i
ing Marion, was a number of letters to Lord Can-
ninghamn ; and, among others, one from Lad~~~unning-
ham urging his speedy return to Ireland, on account of
her health, which was suffering from the care of the
estate in such troublesome times, as well as from the
long estrangement from her husband and. child. If
Lady Cunningham had said that her health had de.

OR~ LiFE IN TWO WORLDS.        93
dined under the torment of her own cvii passions, she
would have told a truth. But, such an appeal would
not have been so sure of bringing back the absentees as
one which was directed more to their affections and
sympathies. 11cr obj ect was to get some control of
her husband's opinions, it' preten(liflg to a growing
respect and regard for his own could effect this
result. By this and other means she hoped to get
Marion in her power, and to prevent the threatened
calamity of a low marriage in her family.
Lord Cunningham had lately been wishing to get
rid of his business in Canada, in order to return to
Ireland, and these cunningly written letters from
Lady Cunningham and her friends had their full
amount of influence in persuading him to take this
step. In a few weeks after receiving them, he re-
shipped himself and dawrliter for home.
In order to give the affectation an air of truth,
Lady Cunningham had made great preparations for
their reception, and the castle was full of gay corn-
P~11Y to welcome back her lord, and the youthful Lady
Marion, her only daughter. had this company been
of a different sort, the effect would have been better;
but, both his lordship and Marion were so well
pleased at the demonstrations of affection shown to-
ward them in her ladyship's conducts and so happy at
being once, more in Ireland, that the ~tyle of her
ladyship's friends was overlooke(l l~y them. Marion
had greatly linproved in her appearance, as might
have been expected from the lapse of time, and the
beneficial effects of travel, novelty and intelligent
society, upon an opening mind. All united in being


94       THE ROMANCE OF AN IRISH GIRL;
very much l)lC3SCd with her appearance, and Sir
I~obert Nelson was ~bere to subscribe to all the
l)raises lavished upon her by her mother's professed
friends-but Marion's unsuspected enemies.
Good old Dr. Wilkins was delighted to see his
little patient exl)anded into each a fine blooming girl,
and Marion was rejoiced to meet her dear, kind
l)llYsician. Bu1t' iDr. Wilkins was the innocent means
of coimnunicating to her ears and heart a mighty
Sorrow.
" Where is John?" asked tile doctor, getting Lord
Cunning ghani and Marion into a corner by themselves.
"I do not know," answered his lordship, rather
coldly.
What ! not know ?" ejaculated the doctor; "why,
I thought lie was with you all the time. Bless the
boy, I hope you have not left him behind ?"
"On the contrary, I sent him home several months
ago," ans~vered Lord Cmnliingham. lIe then went on to
tell the doctor confidentially that lie was disappointed
in John, whoxil he had always believed to be the eldest
son of Mr. Woods, a worthy and estimable man; but
that, of late, he had received intimation that lle was
all illegitimate son of a certain noble; and that he
had been sent for to return to Ireland, as his father
designed acknowledging him, and procuring him a
pension from the government. "The young man,"
continues his lordship, " was not to blanle; but I
always have, and always must Oppose this practice
of our nobility, who unblushingly present their illeo'i-
timnate children as candidates for the favor of govern-
ment, amid continue to make the government endorse

OR, LIFE IN TWO WORLDS.          95
their vices. These nameless offspring of our nOI)ility
stand directly in the way 6f the legitimate sons of
more honest awl deserving men. If England has
money to spare, let her discharge some ot her obli-
gations to Ireland, in a way to benefit her common
pCO~)lC. But 110, We cannot get this justice done.
I~vei' the Church is silent, and fails to rebuke this
wrongdoing.
" Look at the house of Grafton,'~ continued lie.
"What obligaLions was England under to colnl)ll-
]ndnt Charles Ill. tor introducing such a subject as the
Duke of Grafton? But the people have been made
to P~Y over tWo milliOn pounds sterling for that sin
committed against God and the world: nor is that
more than One case in thousands of such that exist.
There is no virtue, no delicacy left in our aristocracy
when they can perpetrate such shamelesS outrages
onthe suffering, hard-working people. It' lords will
have sons and daughters out of their proper marriage
relations, let theni provide for them out of their own
incomes and not make government responsible for
their support.
"Let us hope," said the doctor, "that our young
queen will exercise more rigid moralS in this matter
but I am sorry to learn that John Woods is not John
Woods, after all. I was 1)roud of the boy as a corn-
uLOIICV, and hoped sometime to see him in Parliament."
" S~ with mc ; but, until I learn more about this
matter, I decline to have anything to do with his
affairs. Lord John IioWl(2r, thinking I coulol be de-
peilded on as his l)atI'o1~, addressed me on the subject
of marrying him to his youngest (laughter; but I re-


96       THE ROMANCE OF AN IRISH GiRL'
fused to have anything to do with it at present,
though I did not give him my reasons. AS?~e may like
the young man quite as well when he learns that lie
has noble blood in his veins, and a prospect of a
pension; therefore I forbore to mention it, lest it
might displease John's future father-in-law."
The doctor looked sympathizingly at Marion, who
was quite pale and silent during this conversation.
lie had heard the current report of her attachment
to John, and hoped it might be true; and had some
confidence in Lord Cunningham that he would allow
the match, lie was therefore disappointedd and
grieved at this termination to his speculations. "So
you do not know where John is?" said the doctor,
absently.
"I conclude he is in Dublin," answered Lord Cun-
ningham. "has he not been up to see Mr. Woods ?"
"Not that I have heard of. If what you have
been told is true, he ~vil1 not often come up here, I
presume."
"No, most probably not,'~ said his lordship, shortly.
This conversation, to which Marion was a passive
listener, was the first intimation she ~had received of
the facts in relation to the change in her father's pre-
vious feelings and sentiments. She was not surprised
either, that lie should take the position he did in re-
ference to John. She now comprehended that, in
urging her to marry Sjr Robert, he had determined
to provide against the possibility of her connection
with any of this spurious nobility, against which,
for good and honorable reasons, he entertained a bitter
contempt.

OR, LIFE IN TWO WORLI)S.
With a quicker instinct than her father, she divined
that all was not as it had been represented to him.
She remembered the enmity of these now seeming
friends, who, with her mother, so suddenly recoil-
cued to her, were loading her with present favors.
It was true time worst of men, 01(1 Lord Elia, made
professions of sincere repentance, and declared him-
self a supplant for God's mercy; and whom God
could forgive, she must not refuse forgiveness to;
but the conviction still lingered in her heart that
all was not right among these people whom she had
once known so vicious and remorseless. Carefully
concealing her sorrow, in order not to provoke their
observation, she resolved to investigate John's case
as far as possible; and to get her father's help if she
could.
But troubles thickened around Marion. Lord
Cunningham's new flatterers were exerting every
nerve to gain his confidence. The candid and noble
nature of his own mind made this a comparatively
easy achievement, and it was with genuine satisfaction
he listened to admissions of his old opponents that
lie had beeii right and they wrong. his favorite
measures met with commemmdatioii and he had hopes
of yet being able to effect some good for Ireland.
Added to this, the attentions shown his dan ghter, and
the respect paid her opinions, were a most engaging
forum of blandishment, since it was a tacit approval
of the conr~e taken in her education.
These demonstrations were not without their re-
sult. It is a natural law of compensationS that the
respect bestowed upon ourselves increases our favor-
r


98      'rilE ROMANCE OF AN IRISH GIRL;
able Opinion of the person paying us the compliment;
and Lord Cunningham began to think better of his
peel's than lie had done, and more inclined to look
:unongst theuii for a husband for Marioti.
As was to be expected from her position and pm'os-
pects, she soon llulnl)ered quite a list of admirers.
To all advances of this nature Marion gave but mu-
different encouragement. She had a difficult part to
act, and fully comprehended her situation. She did
not attempt to conceal from herself that John Woods
was the choice of her heart; yet, she had resolved
in the event of his proving to be illegitimate, not to
compromise her lather with those who had ridiculed
himmi for his liberal views with regard to his educa-
tion ; and for cultivating in her an independent judg-
inent of her own. She would not now reward him
for this generosity with ingratitude; and, unless she
could have his full consent, she would not marry,
however much her heart was interested. But as she
had not yet had an opportunity of explaining her
sentiments and intentions to her father, and as he
seemed entirely to have forgotten that such a person
as John Woods existed, she daily dreaded the trial
which she knew only too well was in store for her.
Among the many honorable proposals for her hand,
was one from the Duke of . As this was quite
an unobjectionable offer, and highly gratifying to the
J)ride of her patients, it was with something like dis-
1)leasllre that Lord Cunningham received her answer
to the proposition. Every persuasion of Lady Cunning-
ham's was tried and failed. Ills lordship informed
Lady Marion that there was to be an end of trifling.

OR, LIFE IN TWO woRLDS.

99

She had refused several very distinguished offers
because she did not "love" the applicants for her
t~mvor. how could she expect to love men she would
not allow to approach her? Let her accept the duke's
proposal, and she would soon learn to love him.
To all this reasoning Marion o1)poSed a steady
firmness of purpose. She would not marry any
of these men proposed. If her father required it, she
would promise to remain unmarried. But that was
not his lordship's wish; and, in the excitement of
what he thought a stubborn contention for rights ~n
her part, he even went so far as to threaten her with
1ummishment of some sort for her disobedience. "Re-
member Emma Cunningham !" was Marion's reply.
"It was you, father, who taught me to respect my
own judgment and feelings against all opposition.
This hand and heart of mine, are the only things over
which God has given me entire and unconditional
control, thereby intimating that I ought to be very
careful in the disposal which I make of them. Out
of respect to you, I proiiiise never to give them with-
out your consent; much less will I (live them with-
out my own. I am now depending on you for
protection and support, but I will give up both home
and friends before I will resign the liberty to control
my own person, or to choose who shall share that
control with inc." Such was Marion's answer.
"Do you already love some one ?" inquired his
lordship, moved out of his anger by her lofty
seriousneSs.
"Father, I do; but I beg you will not ask inc
further at present. In good time you shall know all."


100

TIlE ROMANCE OF AN IRISH culL;

Witlm this assurance, Marion hastened out of' her
father's pi'esence to indulge her emotions alone; aiid
his lordship carried a final answer to the duke.
That night, Lord Cunningham was taken ill of an
alarming fi~ver, from which it was exceedingly doubt-
ful if lie recovered. Dr. Wilkins did not attempt to
disguise his danger from Marion, who, lie thought,
would be better able to bear the inevitable blow if
she was warned of it from the first. But when was
affection ever warned? Who ever realized that a
beloved object was to be torn forever from his em-
brace, while yet that object lived and could be mims-
tered to? Marion's devotion was untirino'' she tak-
ing upon herself the office of nurse, and keeping
beside him night and day for the whole period of his
paiuf IL and tedious illness. As Lord Cunningham
approached his dissolution, he showed even more than
ordinary affection and care for his daughter. his
wistful eyes followed her wherever she moved, as if
he saw through thnt troubled future into which his
death would plunge her. Calling her to him on the
last day, he kindly asked her for the confession she
had promised to make him.
"Father, it is John Woods I love," she answered
bravely; "if you disapprove of him, I shall regard
your wishes."
"Not of him, but of his birth. Let him prove
himself an honest man' s son"
" Unless that is proven, your daughter honors her
father too much to stain his name by the alliance."
"That is enough. I bless you, my child."
This was their last interview. In three hours from

oa, LIFE IN TWO WORLDS.        101
that time he died. It feli to Marion's lot to carry the
tidings of her fathers death to Lady Cunningham,
who was ill in her own chamber. She received the
intelligence in her usual complaining way: " Marion
ought to have known better than to have brought
her SuCh Ii' ~VS. It might be the lileanS of her death
she was sick already~PerllaPS coiflilig down with the
same disease; but nobody ever seemed to think of
her."
Poor Marion! her grief was none the less because
she had been told what to expect. It was all that in
her exhausted state she could bear up under. Who
had she no~v to care for her happiness? Not one.
Only a little past eighteen, lacking iiearly three. years
of her majority, she was left-not destitute or friend-
less as the world judges, but in reality without a
protector and in the hands of her worst enemies-
professed friends.


102      TI~ ROMANCE OF AN IRISh GIRL;

CITAPTh~ XL
THE usual funeral P01111) was observed, and crowds
of weeping relatives gave impressiveness to the
scene of sorrow. Lady Cunningham seemed quite
overcome. No looker-on would have suspected that
there was but one sincere mourner in the funeral train.
One-nay, Marion suspected that there were two;
for, keeping apart from the relatives, was a figure
familiar to her eye, even through his slouching' dis-
guise. lie did not attempt to colunlunicate with
Marion, but retired immediately upomi the close of'
the fLilieral ceremonies.
Violent as had seemed Lady Cunningham's grief,
she was not long in recovering' f
~ rom it; and anon
thought She had never been so cheerful. Crowds of
anxious friends consoled and comforted her; the
event tended rather to increase her social circle than
to diminish it. Not so easily consoled was the deso-
late daughter, whosed simple mourning and retiring
habits were a coustaftt source of complaint with Lady
Cunningham; and it soon became apparent that she
intended to have the Lady Marion a little more under
her control than formerly.
Almost before a decent interval had elapsed, nego-
tiations were recomumenced with the rejected duke.
lie was recalled by Lady Cunningham, who, with
the duke's father, was quite determined upon the
connection. But, most unexpectedly, a friend to

LIFE IN TWO WORL,1)S.
iMlarioli rose up in the young duke himself', who seized
the first opportunity to assure her of his reluctailce to
press the suit against licr inclinations ; and, that if
her deterininatioll was nia(lO ilj), lie would assist her
rejection by himself objecting to the match. It was
C(jilillly an act of disobedience on his part, as his
f;unily desired the alliance, and were bcnt upon ac-
coluplisiling it; but lie was not (1lnte SO helpless as a
woinail nuder tyranny, and should assei't his right to
refuse to marry an unwilling bride. This kindness
on the part of the duke was a great conufort to
Marion, for she now felt that, as fin' as he was con-
cerned, she really had nothing to fear, though she
endured daily persecutions from her mother, who was
still negotiating to bring about the marrhige. Marion
had requested the duke to see her grandfather, old
Lord (Junniughalil, who was still at the castle, on the
subject so painful to her, and procure, if possible, his
influence against Lady Cunningham. This the duke
undertook, but at first was met with coldness by the
the old lord, who clung to the opinion that parents
had an inalienable right to the obedience of' their
children in such matters affecting the fiuinily inter-
ests.
But the watchword "iRenmenuber Lady Emma I',
-with which Marion had armed the dhke, procured
for him a promise to consider the matter, aud, if it
appeared that the young lady's happiness was truly
assailed by her mother, to interpose his influence in
her behalf. It was not long before an occasion for
interference appeared. Upom~ asking to see his grand-
daughter one morning, he was told by Lady Gun-


104     'filE ROMANCE OF AN IRISh GIRf~
niughain that she had been compelled to pumsli lici',
an(1 she was for the present invisible.
"To punish her ?" repeated his lordship. "Pi'av
how do you punish young ladies, Lady Cunning-
ham ?"
"As they deserve," answered her ladyship, sailing
from the room.
While the old man was uneasily pacing the room,
waiting for news of Marion, she appeared, her face
and eyes swollen red with weeping. Her counte-
nance brightened up on seeing her grandfather, who
opened hi~ ai'ms to 1~eeei~'e her.
"What have you been doing, my dear, to deserve
punishment; and what sort of punishment have you
had ?"
"A whipping, grandfather; and because IL refuse
to dress myself in a more attractive manner, and
wear jewels while I am in mourning for my father."
The mention of her father brought on a fresh par-
oxysm of weeping. The old Scotchman's blood was
roused, particularly as he could see on Marion's
shoulders the red marks of the whip. After mixing
up, for a few moments, oaths at Lady Cunningham
with words of comfort to Marion, he suddenly asked
her why she did not marry the duke and
from this abuse.                     get away
"Too many young ladies have taken that course
already," answered Marion; "for my part I am
determined not to escape by that path. I will not
be compelled to marry a man I do not love; the more
especially as there is one whom I do love. My dear
father knew this, and approved of it, on certain con-

OR, LIFE IN TWO WORLDS.       103

editions. I shall fulfill these conditions, and marry
that man, or none whatever."
"True Cunningham blood," answered Lord Cun-
ningham, smiling grimly. " Well, my dear, I will
see what can be done. We must have no more of
this, at all events "-pasSing his hand over her
striped shc~ulders-" I will speak with your mother
and try to bring her to reason, as she seenm to be
quite out of reason in this case."
Lord Cunningham did as he promised, and expos-
tulated with her ladyship on the manner of treatment
toward her daughter; but she declared herself coin-
petent, in her owu estimation, to govern her o~vn child.
She had been compelled to look on long enough-so
long that the child was quite ruined with indulgence.
She would now attempt to teach her what was her
duty to her mother.
"But she is now too old," said his lordship, "to
govern with the whip. 11cr character is formed, or
nearly so, and is strong enough to match even your
own with firmness. You can * never compel her;
would it not be better' to let her be hap~)y in her own
way, and allow her to make you happy also; for the
child has an affectionate temper, as well as a resolute
one?"
"so, never, while I live !" exclaimed Lady Cnn-
ninghain, passionately. "I know what her way of
being happy is. She would marry a beggar, and
introduce beggars' manners into the castle. She has
no true aristocratic instincts; her blood has a taint
of vileness in it."
" If that is so~ it never caine from her father's
5*


100      TIlE ROMANCE OF AN 1111511 GIRL'

side," answered Lord Cunningham, sternly. "We
have preserved our blood at all costs fm'oin mixing
with the common blood at a greater cost," lie
added, turnimig l)ale, "than ever it should bring
again.
Lady Cunninglmrn, who dreaded the influence of
her grandfather's interference upon Marion, and
unwilling that she should overhear more of this con-
versation, at this juncture ordered her from the
room.
"Not yet," said Lord Cummiugham, stopping her
retreat, "I have a word to say to you. If you can-
not, by rendering all reasonable obedience, keep upon
goo(l terms with your mother, I give you permission
to come to me, and I will protect you from injury.
Nevertheless, I counsel you to try to live with your
mother, as being most pm'oper and natural. And you,
Lady Cunningham, I counsel not to use too strong
measures with this child, because it will be l)roductive
only of trouble, to you as well as hem'."
"I will manage my own domestic matters in my
own way," was the answer of her ladyship, as she
repeated her command for ~farion to quit the m.oom.
Nothing that had been said or done had any effect
to change Lady Cunningham's purposes with regard
to her daughter; but, Marion, after considering the
chances, determined to endure this sort of life for the
time remaining until she should come of age. She
I)ehieved she could hold out against any amount of
persecution applied to herself'. The servants, how-
evem', thought differently. Old Lucy was in constant
distm'ess about her foster-child's unhappy condition

U

OR~ LIFE IN TWO WORLDS.       lOT
and, stickler for propriety as she was, almost wished
Marion could hear of John Woods, in order to seek
his protection. Others of the 01(1 servants, when they
heard the blows tall oii Marion's back, held tlieinselveui
ready to fly to the rescue at the first outcry; but
Marion sul)lnitted to the pain of the punishuwut
rather than call in the aid of these humble friends,
ose sympathy would only lose them their 1)laces.
wh
One consideration which induced Marion's patient
submission, was the hope that, by remaining where
she was, she should in time hear something of John,
and be enabled to establish an understanding with
him; so that in case of being compelled to leave
home, she should have his slI~)port to depend on.
She was more likely, too, to hear of hiii, in such a
way as to satisfy her own munid upon time point of his
legitimacy, by remaining near Lady (Junmmiglmam,
who, she was persuaded, knew inure about him than
most peOl)lC. Nor was she mistaken in this calcula-
tion. The Duke of - still remained a good friend
to her; and Lady Cunningham, though informed of' his
intention to withdraw his suit, with or without his
father's consent, still hoped that he woUl(l change his
mind.
Lord Chailes Elia, who had lately made some pre-
tensions toward Marion's hand, was displeased with
her ladyship's preference for the (luke, and treadle-
rously exposed a plot, to which lie was ~)arty, bet~veen
Lady Cunningham and Lord B , an intiniate
friend of her ladyship's, for destroying the reputation
of John Woods. The ruse of John's l)eing sent for
to be acknowledged by his father and pensioned by


108      TUE ROMANCE OF AN IRISH GIRL;
the government, had for some time deceived not only
Lord Cunningham, but John himself. There was no
longer anything to be gained in that direction ; and,
to 1)lmt an end forever to all doubt, or possibility of
Marion's adhering to him in his position as a farmer's
son, lie was accused of theft.
When Marion learned these facts from her friend
the duke, who was informed by Lord Charles Elia,
she felt her former suspicious confirmed. Indeed,
there was no longer any occasion to doubt the whole
conspiracy. Great as was the danger, Marion could
not help feeling rejoiced that she was at liberty,
according to her promise, to entertain her former
sentiments for her lover, and to give him what aid
or consolation she could. So closely was she still
watched that it was difficult to hold any correspond-
ence with him. The case of Grace Ford was held up
as a warning, not only by Lady Cunningham, but
many other parents-and afforded a good excuse for
unusual watchfulness. here was a girl whose parents
were of the highest respectability, who had eloped
with a common man. Up to the time her father
brought a husband of his own selection, and urged
his acceptance, against the strongest repulsion on hem'
part, she had been a quiet, obedient girl; but the
prospect of being forced into this loathsome marriage,
had roused the resistance of her nature. She flatly
refused to Imave anything to say to this nman selected
for her, and was put in confinement for her obstinacy.
The death of an uncle, calling her father away from
home, allowed her an opportunity of escape. She
procured the keys of the outer doors, and eluding

OR, LIFE IN TWO WORLDS.      109
those servants she could not persuade to be out of the
way, made her escape, and locked the doors behind
her, throwing the keys where they might afterward
be found. She had persuaded a man to accompany
her, whose protection she preferred to her father's.
This bold act furnished an excuse for great vigilance
among parents of marriageable daughters, and gave
an air of lofty duty to the most absolute domestic
despotism.
Agitated by fears of Marion's reiinacting Grace
Ford, Lady Cunniughani had put her in confinement.
This fact being known to Charles Elia, he had threat-
ened to effect Marion's release, as well as that of
Woods, in order that what Lady Cunningham so
dreaded might be brought about, as a special revenge
upon her for her late slights to himself.
A message came to Marion one morning from thc
duke, and the page who brought it refusing to
deliver it, except to Lady Marion in person, a reluc-
tant admittance was granted him to her apartment.
The boy observed that Lady Cunningham, who
accompanied him, turned a key before entering, and
that although the note was given to Marion, there
was no chance of getting her reply, as it was evident
Lady Cunningham intended to prevent any corres-
pondence which did not l)~85 through her hands.
There was no way then but for the p~1ge to return
without an answer, and repoi't 1)I'oceedings to his
master.
No sooner was the boy gone than Lady Cuii-
ningham demanded the note from Marion, who
refused to give it up. A scene then ensued which is


110      TILE ROMANCE OF AN IRISh GIRL.

shocking to relate. Lady Cunningham entei'ed into
a struggle with her dan ghter to obtain possession of'
the duke's message, which ended by Marion's I)llt-
ting the paper into 11cr month and chewing it ; where-
upon Lady Cunningham l)1'essed her fin gel's upon hiei'
daughter's throat to force her to yield by choking her,
until the paper dropped and Marion's head PAl on
one side. Her ladyship was somewhat frightened
for a moment, but seeing her revive, she proceeded to
examine the paper; which, owing to the treatment it
had received was by this time quite illegible-only
enough remained to assum'e Marion that it was the
hand-writing of John XVoods.
Marion perceived that whatever were its contents,
they could Iii 110 way benefit her at present, and was
well-nigh overcome by despair. her mother's con-
duct on this occasion was so violent, that she began
to fear worse things than mere imprisonment. how-
ever, there was no way for her but to persevere in
adhering to the cause she had espoused, though the
principle of' tame submission was somewhat changed
by the present appearance of her case.
She waited for the next step in the drama. Lady
Cunningham brought writing materials and coin-
manded her to write as she dictated. This Marion
said she would not do unless what she required her
to write was tile truth, or if compelled, she should
preface the writing by an explanation. Affairs had
come to such a pass with her that she could no lon-
ger consider it her duty to God ~r society to quietly
submit to all this cruelty. She had suffered whip.
pings and imprisonment at first rather than risk the

OR, LIFE IN TWO WORLDS.       111.
possibility of' doing wrong by resisting; now, how-
ever, her mind was made up to a dificrent cause.
Lady Cunningham stamped with rage at this deti-
anCe, and drew her ever-ready whip ; but Marion
arrested her hand holding her mother firmly at the
same time. 11cr ladyship was siu'prised at this
unexpected movement. " 1 shall not hurt you," said
Marion, "but neither shall I allo~v you to strike me.
There are other means to be used it' 1. deserve pull-
ishment. You are my natural protector, both by tbe
laws of God and man; but since you abuse your
authority, I shall take care of' myself?'
Something in Marion's determined in anner had the
etfi ct to check further demonstrations on the l)al't of'
Lad~~ Cunninglialil. 11cr ladyship was about quit-
ting the apartment, but Marion refused to remain
beliind~ and ~vent out beside her, without giving her
time to i'eflect upon her capacity to prevent it.
Her first impulse upon finding herself at liberty
was to fly at once beyond the reach of her mother.
A little reflection, however, convinced her that she
might commit a great imprudence by doing so. That
something must soon be done to mend her conditions
she had nO (loubt, but that something must be well-
chosen and efficient. Should she take refuge with
her grandfather? Lady Cunningham could easily
l)rin~ her away from there ; and beside, the Scotch
sentiment was all against disobedience. Small then
would be her hope of finding a pleasant asylum in
Scotland. There were no families of her acquain-
tance to whom ~he dared impart her secret; the very
mention of her intentions would condemn her among


112      TIlE ROMANCE OF AN IRISh GIRL;
all classes that had any claim to respectability-such
was the public sentiment. To the servants it was
unsafe to confide anything. No matter how much
they might be devoted to her, they were such blun-
dering creatures destruction attended upon their ser-
vices. Dependent, too, upon their masters, it would
be unfair to put their interests in jeopardy by imnpli-
eating them in her escape. Could she only return to
America, she believed she might do something to
support herself there, and be at rest from these per-
secutions.
While she was deliberating, the news of John's
conviction of the crime of theft was brought to her.
Lady Cunningham was once more restored to tolera-
ble good humor by this intelligence, and seemed to.
dismiss all fears of her daughter's disgracing her by
an elopement, or otherwise. But poor Marion was
overwhelmed! Not that she gave one moment's cre-
dit to the truth of the accusation against her lover;
but his fall before the public, the disappointment to her
own hidden hopes, as xvell as tIme knowledge of his
inevitable misery, was a stunning blow to her, sur-
rounded as she was by difficulties on every hand.
The penalty of his crime was transportation for
life; yet, for some cause unknown to her he was con-
fined to prison in Dublin. her trouble was con-
firmed and unavoidable, she could only pray to God
for strength to support herself and John under this
terrible trial-that He would in his own good time
bring them deliverance out of their trouble. "When
Marion learned that John's punishment had been
commuted to seven years' imprisonment, she procured

OR~ LIFE IN TWO WORLDS.         113

a CODY of the trial, the better to ju(lgO of the
strength of the testimony against him. The swear-
ing on both sides was very convincing, but the pro-
secution was a little the strongest. Though the case
was evidently one of great mystery, inasmuch as the
character and circumstances of the accused placed
him above suspicion, yet' there was uo room left for
doubt in the evidence, which was 1)OSitive and clear.
Marion found little in the details of the case to give
her comfort. She learned that even his own father,
resenting the disgrace brought on his ~'ood name,
refused to pity or forgive him, and convinced by the
evidence, did not allow himself to doubt his son's
guilt. Not so his mother, who like Marion refused
to believe it, tlm~ughm she had not Marion's good rea-
sons for doing so. Nor would Marmn communicate
to her these reasons, fearing that time just indignation
of the mother WOlll(l overcome her prudence, and
lead her into difficulty with those who had the power
to crush her and her son together.
in There was great comfort taken by the aristocracy
the downfall of the ~p8ta~t. , In vain did such
people endeavor to come out of the dirt. They were
intrinsically bad and low, and no amount of culture
could cleanse them of their natural proclivities.
Marion, too, had her slmare of censure to bear on this
account. Some of her friends were glad Lord Cumin-
mmiugham was dead-it would have been such a blow
{o his pride! If Marion had obeyed her mother, her
name would never have been linked with a thief's.
Woods deserved to be shot for his presumption, and
Marion punished for her condescension. IIiglv


114      TIlE kOMANCI~ OF AN IRISh GIRt.
churchmen set hei~ down as an example of ali those
who " make a show of their putty." She had
refused to associate in friendship with men whose
Immoral and intemperate habits were offensive to
her ; but had fallen, instead, into the company of
thieves." Ladies gave utterance to 5l1o~restions and
insinuations which were too indelicate to repeat.
Some thought she would retire to a convent, away
from the contaminating influences of earth ; others
made a jest of Lord Cunningham's new way of train-
ing a nobility. Men and women rejoiced over her
mortification, and exulted in the discovery of every
trifling weakness she possessed, as if it were an
unusual sign of depravity. Amidst all this, Lady
Cunningham exhibited tlmc good sense to wish to keep
her retired as much as possible from society-a plan
which agm'eed for once with Marion's' own wishes,
and was so good as to assure her daughter she should
be provided for notwithstanding the groveling dis-
position she had shown so much to her family's dis-
credit.

OR, LIFE ix TWO WORLDS.        115
ChAPTER Xli.
Tins was a dark and trying time to Marion. Should
she carry out her haif-forified plan of leaving home
to find peace in a foreign h~nd, every one would con-
clude she had thrown herself away in despair. Should
she remain where she was, all self-respect and sen-
sibility must be sacrificed to these coarse-nlinde(l
1~eoplc. She could not indulge in the luxury of
tears, for her circumstances demanded dignity and
self-possession. She braced herself up to endure
everything with calmness and fortitude, without
sacrificing her principles. She asked herself if she
had the normal courage to stand by those principles,
now the hope of earthly reward was withdrawn.
Was she not wedded to John Woo&amp;s iii~ the sight of
God and her own soul? Was it not her duty to
stand by him in his misfortunes, as much as if the
world had witnessed their betrothal? had she ally
right to forsake him as long as she believed him
innocent?
In answer to these mental inquirieS, hor heart
assured her that it was her highest duty to be true
to truth and outraged innocence. Of God she asked
aid ; if God was for her, who could prevail against
her ~ She felt that her Piety was put to the test in
this trial, and resolved not to luring a reproach upon
her profession. IReligion did not consist in the oh-
servances of certain ceremonies, but in doing all


116      TIlE ROMANCE OF AN IUISII GIRL;
(lUty, however difficult. If she could communicate
with John, and comfort him, she felt bound to (10 so.
The opportunity, however much desired, did not
oc~iii' lbr sending consolation to the unhappy prisoner.
For seven long months Marion had quietly endured
insult and derision, as well as occasional persecution.
At the end of this time the Archbishop of
caine on a visit to Lady Cunningham. To him, as
her spiritual adviser, Lady Cunningham communi-
cated her trouble on account of her daughter, and
asked his advice. The bishop, being a widower,
entered into this family history with unusual in-
tercst; and Lady Cunningham found from his counsel
that Mariomi could be disinherited. This was having
her in her power in a satisfactory sense; but she was
prll(lent enough to use caution in the case. The quiet
and determined manner that her daughter still pre-
served, notwithstanding the humiliating circumstances
of her position, informed her ladyship and others that
she was not yet so completely humbled as they could
d~sire. Those whom she had ventured to dislike
before, she still treated with undisguised contempt;
all their ability to annoy her seemed exhausted. This
was sufficient cause for her ladyship's displeasure,
had there been no better; the malicious never forgive
those whom they cannot wound.
Lady Cunningham asked the bishop if lie thought
it possible she still had a hope of being restored to
Woods at the end of his term of imprisonment, which
was seven years; and the good bishop believed there
would be no trouble in finding out the state of her
mind by using a little strategy, which would be per-

OR, LIFF~ IN TWO WOl~LDS.      117
feetly justifiable. She might write out a contract,
pledging her never to speak to, or in any way recog-
nize John Woods; mailing such an act a forfeiture of
her claim to all her father's estate. It was true the
law made no provision for such cases, and the for-
feiture might ifot stand a trial; but then, if she did
not know that, the test would be just as severe.
Again, a large share of what would ultimately be
hers, was still in the hands of her grandfather; and
the old gentleman, since Lady Emma's death, had
been a little weak on the point of marriages of choice,
so there was no certainty of his codperatioii: hut
the bishop was on good terms with the old lord and
might use his influence in favor of the good order of
society depending upon this natter. At all events it
would (10 no harm to try this plan. It was her duty
to show that she had authority over her child, and to
obtain that authority at any price; and, since her
daughter had openly refused obedience in certain
cases, it was her privilege to compel her. She there-
fore thought it best such a writing as he had men-
tioned should be drawn, and Lady Marion required
to consent to the conditions proposed.
11cr ladyship was very grateful for this advice,
comforting as it did with her own notions of pro-
priety, and became so penetrated with respect for
the wisdom of the bishop, that she caine to the conchi-
sion he would be a much more efficient father to Ma-
rion than Lord Cunningham ever had been. Arrange-
ments were accordingly entered into for the transfer
of titles and authoritY into the hands of his lordship,
and Lady Cunniughairm became Lady Fredonia.


118      TIlE ROMANCE OF AN IRISH GLRL                                                              119 OR, LIFE IN TWO wORLDS.

Not long after this event the bishop inquired of
Marion if she had been confirmed, and finding that
she had imot, insisted on having the matter attended
to immediately. As most of Marion's bitterest one-
mies and slanderers were members of this church,
she declined having her name connected with them
at present. She believed she could serve God ac-
ceptably without becoming a member of any church;
and, for the present, preferred that way to any
other. The bishop insisted and she declined. The
bishop said she must, and themi she said she would
not; that hem' judgment was clearly against it, Ub well
as her feelings. This provoked the good man ex-
ceedingly, and some l)lain talk took place on both
sides. At this juncture Lady Fredonia interfered,
amid informed her daughter that unless she obeyed,
not only in this case but many others where she had
heretofore been refractory, she should leave the
castle, never to return. She then gave Marion a
paper, conunanding her to read and comply, or quit
her sight for ever.
Poor Marion! no wonder her hand shook, that held
the copy of such cruel conditions, knowing there was
no alternative but compliance or disinheritance and
expulsion from her father's house. She did not
hesitate long. "Have I read aright," she asked her
mother, "awl ani I to be driven forth from my home
and my inheritance ?"
"You are the person to decide that," answered
Lady Fredonia.
"I have decided, then," she replied, with a fox cod
calmness; and, without another word, retired to her

118

119

apartment, made up a little bundle ot clotlung, with
which, and a purse of gold she had long, laid by for
a use, she was soon on her way to a land of
strangers. None knew of her intention; the ser-
vants could only say they observed their young lady
walking away quite rapidly that afternoon ; but sup-
posed she was going to visit some of the tenants.
it had not been Lady Cunningham's purpose really
t6 banish Marion at once; nor did she apprehend so
resolute a movement on her daughter's part. She
thought to intimidate her by this extreme course;
or, if she still resisted, to select her place of banish-
went herself. Even when night came, and. Marion
had not returned, she refrained from taking any steps
to find her, hoping she was lingering somewhere in
the neighborhood, and wishing not to appear anxious
about her. The bishop was sure the spirit of God
had no residence in so obstinate a heart; and hoped
this latter measure might have some effect in bringing
her to a sense of her obligations to her friends. She
hoped she might yet be led to ask pardon for her sins,
of God and her mother.
When four days had elapsed and no word from
Marion came, Lady Fredonia thought it time to
make some examination of her daughter's effects, and
discover, if she could, what provisions she had made
for a journey. Not much, however, had been taken
away, and it could not be possible that she had gone
far. "Was it possible she had gone to Scotland, to
her grandfather's, with that writing which had been
given her to sign?" That was a conjecture which
gave her little or no comfort; ai~din the hope of


120      TILE ROMANCE OF AN WISH GIEL;
finding out the direction taken by her daughter, she
dispatched servants in all directions with in(juiries
for the missing young lady.
All that was learned was that the stage-drivei's
l)ad noticed a young woman walking on the road,
who seemed to ans\vei' the descriptio11 given; and
that she was evidently quite lame from walking. her
ladyship then sent to Belfast and Londonderry to in-
pure if her (laughter had sailed from either of those
P01 ts. At Derry it was found such a young lady had
gone, as servant, on l)oard the ship Albion, Captain
Robinson, bound to America.
This information, llnl)leasant as it was in some
respects, relieved Lady Fredonia's mind of its chief
trouble. Marion had not gone to her grandfather's,
and she ha~i not to apprehend any difficulty in that
direction. It would have been a great trial, after
having attained an influential position as Lady Fre-
donia, in the church as well as in society-to have
had these domestic discords transpire, and have old
Lord Cunningham reproaching her with severity or
injustice to his grandchild.
But the course which Marion had taken, in going
to America without her grandfather's advice, was
sure to meet with censure from him, as well as every-
body else; it would, therefore,~ be no longer doubted
she was a most ungrateful child. As for Marion, she
had placed herself in the school to punish herself
severely, and she hoped she would not be spared
until she was hmnble enough to return penitent.
Lady iFredonia was settling herself (lown to feel
resigned to this rather fortunate occurrence, which

On~ LIFE IN iwo WORLDS.       121
deprived her of a disobedient daughter, without dis-
turbing her possession of that daughters estate,
when a letter caine from old Lord Cunnin 'un, ask-
ing for an explanation of a letter he had received
rrom Captain Robinson, of the ship Albion, which
enclosed one from Marion, together with a copy of a
certain requisition made by Lady Fredonia under for-
feiture of her right by inheritance. This unexpected
inquiry for a short time puzzled Lady Fredonia to
answer. But, coming to the conclusion, at the insti-
gation of her lord, to put a bold face upon the mat-
ter, she replied to Lord Cuniugham that she had a
right to dispose of her child as she pleased, and was
under no obligation to account to his lordship for
anything she might choose to do. This answer dis-
turbed the composure of the old Scotchman not a
little: not only on account of Marion, but as a mat-
ter of rights. He inquired of himself what Lady
Fredonia expected to do, if she thought to retain
Marion's inheritance while she lived. The result of
his reflections was the resolve to contest the point
of her authority to do what she had done by her
daughter.
Poor, foolish man! lie has forgotten what were
once his o~vn sentiments upon the rights of parents;
that England, Scotland and Ireland hold to these
sentiments still. Lady Fredonia is supported on all
sides by the opinion of the church and society, and
by the counsel of a bishop whose influence even m
the House of Commons is unlimited. Were Lady
Fredonia even not a bishop's wife, but alone in the
world, as she was a few months before, the whole
0


122      TUE ROMANCr~ os' AN IRISh
sentunent of the aristocracy would be in 11cr fhvor;
therefore the contest must be purely a legal one.
Much feeling was expressed on this subject in the
'louse of Lords, wlieii it was known that. Bishop Fre-
donia wanted her ladyship's right to do what she
had done, tested. Lord Charles Cunningham Ila(1
been an upright man, and had many warni friends
among his peers, whose sentiments were somewhat
like his own, and who were ready to doubt tli~
authority of Lady Fredonia to turn off her daughter,
or to claim that her daughter had forfeited her estate.
A great deal of discussion grew out Qf the question.
Bishop Fredonia said he only asked an expression of
feeling on the subject. Did the sentiment of tile
people sustain Lady Fredonia, or did it not? Some
of the dead Lord Cunningham's frieifds felt that it
was not treating his memory rightly to agitate the
question: Let it not even be mentioned that his
dangilter had forsaken her home. Tile young lady
had voluntarily resigned her birthright, and probably
would never claim it: and it was most unmanly
business, Ilunting down a yOullg lady or her property
in that way.
LORD ELlA'S REMARKs.
Lord Elia was of opinion that, to give the young
lady her property, would be to establish a dangerous
precedent. Tile moment the sons and daughters of
the aristocracy were allowed to take such indepen-
(lent ideas, the very foundation of an aristocracy was
razed. It was by protecting the sentiment against

OR, LIFE IN TWo WORLDS.

intermarriage with the people, and inheritance of
Property, that they kept the institution in existence.
Tue only questions to be asked in making engage-
inents for their children, were-are the parties
1)roperly coilnected, and thoroughly aristocratic in
feeling. There was great reason, too, why they
should be sound on the church question, as ~veil as
on questions of politics : the church was the nation,
and the nation was the church. There must be a
oneness of sentiment. Parliament must sustain the
action of the church, and the church must sanctify
the doings of Parliament. Lord Cunningham, when
living, had thought it was wrong to allow great men
to present their i1legitiIn~lte children to parliament
to pension. It would be remembered that when
Bishop Fredonia's sons were provided for,. Lord Cun-
ningham lla(l declared it was an outrage for a bishop
to Ilave such sons; much more to ask the people to
provide for them.
Lord Ehia laughed as he spoke of the happiness
WiliCh lords or commoners would have if they
allowed church patrons to preach morality or rebuke
their pleasant little sins! Lord Elia thought Charles
Cunningham's sentiments on liquor drinking were
equally remarkable. lie had heard him say the
queen's liquor bill was a disgrace to the nation: and
that a good woman, though a queen, ought not to
uphold the practices of drinking and gambling by
the example of any such enormous expenditures as
were made for such indulgences. But what could
tile queen do, or the ministers? It would not answer
to restrict people of these liberties, said Lord Elia.


124      TIIF~ ROMANCE OF AN IRISH GIRL;                                                            125

Besides ! said lie, the illegitimate children coin-
plained of, are a good stock to keep on hand for the
army. It takes men brought up under degrading
influences to manage British troops, men who are
willing to give theiti every liberty, and who by pro-
mising them license encourage them to fight for con-
quest. British soldiers always expect to abuse
women, and commit any other outrage they see fit
to do. It is the English policy, and more conquer-
ing than hard fighting. You may overpower a peo-
ple, but, until you have degraded them they are not
subdued. The influence of the soldiery in that
respect had done more to keep the British Islands in
subjection than all the powder and ball ever used.
His lordship quite brought down the house when he
spoke of the late Lord Cunningham's sentiments con-
cerning the house of Grafton, which received a pen-'
sion of forty or, fifty thousand pounds sterling for
being sprung froni a natural son of Charles IL
though he feigned a delicacy in speaking of certain
ladies who, he said, had been lightly spoken of by
the late Lord Cunningham for the same reason-
being pensioners to the amount of eighty thousand
pounds-sisters of the Duke of S . Lord Elia
afl~cted to think this expenditure proper and honor-
able under the circumstances, and an example to
other nations of generosity toward the sex. lie was
proud that it could he done. It was a different style
of conduct in these matters to that pursued by their
republican cousins, members of the Congress of the
United States, who went dodging round dark streets,
with their hats pulled over their eyes in a peculiarly

124

OR, LIFE IN TWO WORLDS.

125

hang-dog manner. He had heard that Cunningham
particularly admired this republican fashion, because
every man had to pay out of his own pocket for his
1)leasures, for his part there was nothing manly
about it in his eyes. Supposing these members of
Congress had children ~ Who was to support them?
or were they to go unsupported?
At length, some gentlemen who were with Elia in
sentiment, became aware of the impropriety of advo-
cating such sentiments in such a place, and persuaded
him to drop the subject. The nation professed to be
not only Christian, but eminent in morals, and Ins
lordship was taking rather broad grounds, publicly.
Bishop Fredonia, too, said the question (lid not pro-
perly come within the bounds of legislation. How-
ever, he desired an expression of opinion with regard
to the course pursued by himself and Lady Fredo-
ida with regard to her ladyship's daughter. lie
wished to be sustained by public sentiment in doing
what he believed to be his duty in so difficult a ques-
tion as one of justice to his late lordship's daughter,
who, it would be seen by the sentiments entertained
by her father, whose pupil she had been, was inclined
to disloyal opinions, and certainly showed great con-
tempt both for church and State, as well as filial
duty. The Bishop's zeal in setting forth the purity of
his motions, and advocating the claims of the church
and the government on all true subjects, was at length
rewarded by receiving the indorsernent of his party
and friends, and applauded by cheers and "long live
such leaders of the church of England."
The friends of Cunningham, justice and humanity,


126     'nw IiOMANCF. OF AN nusu GIRL;
Were, for the present, defeated by the hypocrisy of
a corrupt churchman and ambitious woman.
Although Lady FredQua found her course ai~~
proved of by a majority, she was f~r from being
happy in the result. 11cr liusl)and, supported by his
social position, could practise with nnpunity such
vices as her former husband had always avoi(led;
and much of her wealth went toward his pleasures in
wine, ~)lay and Other luxuries aIl(l amusements not
strictly Christlike in their natures. It did not add to
her contentment to find that lie kept a jewel-box
filled with diamond rings won fi'orn ladies at play
besides Several watches obtained in the same man-
ncr. True, he declared he did not keep them for
gain, as that would be gambling, but only as memen-
toes of their fair former owners!
Lady Fredonia was not long in discovering that
her new lord was deeply in debt, and that he had
managed to put his own property into such a shape
that it could not be reached, and was paying off old
obligations out of hers. Not ojily this, but his child-
ren's expenses came out of it in the same way, and
they were very extravagant. His liquor bill, too,
exceeded already all that she had ever known Lord
Cunningham to expend inthat way during his life~
time. It soon became apparent to her for what
reason the bishop had so readily seconded her views
with regard to Marion; and conscience whispered
that for this reckless expenditure, disrespectful treat-
ment of her step-children, and fast declining regard
of her husband, she had cast off liem~ own flesh and
blood. Other Wm'ongs rose up in her remembrance to

127

OR~ LIFE IN TWO ~VORLD5.

torment her; amongst others the separation of Mr.
and Mrs. Woods, brought about by the representa-
tions put forth of the illegitimacy of John, at a cer-
tarn tune and to serve a certain purpose. She began
to fear she was getting her reward for all this evil-
doing.
IRecklessly had she sacrificed the happiness of several
innocent persons in order to procure her own will and
pleasure; and now she seemed about to be sacrified
with the same unscrupulollsfle$5 to the vice and
pleasure of others equally unpi.incil)led. She often
repented that Marion had been so hicartlussly cast off~
iV it were only to have her to opl)Ose to the bishop's
daughters, who had taken little 1)ains to niake them-
selves agreeable to her. To feel that her own child
wandered homeless and penniless on the face of the
earth, while these upstarts 5t00(l in her place, sonic-
times almost maddened her. But the bishop was not
a man to be moved either by entreaty or threats.
lie knew his power too well, and her ladyship soon
learned to feel the power that compelled her acqui-
escence. It was in vain she resolved and re-resolved
to defy his power to set aside her own child to make
room for his daughters, and (leternuined to give up to
him nO further. She felt that she had been duped,
and made the tool of designing persoils.
There was, however, no chance to undo the past.
While she was reflecting on her situation, past and
future, a process was served on her, securing the l)ro-
perty to the Cunningham family, except a portion
that would be hers during life. She could have
twisted the process if she chose, but there was no


129

THE ROMANCE OF AN IRfSII ~IEf~

128

longer any motive to induce her to keep the pro-
perty in her hands; for the children of the bishop
seemed to dislike her as much as she did them, and
she had no desire to bestow any favors on them.
Therefore, s lie was rather glad of this turn in her
affairs.
Confusion reigned on the estate, and every day
brought fears of open rebellion. Many of the tenants
refused to pay rents, and none could be compelled to
pay tithes. Pounding, cutting and fighting were the
daily amusements of lord and tenants. Five proctors
had been killed and others wounded. God only
could foresee the end of these difficulties.
r1~Iie separation of Woods from his wife was another
occasion of ill-feeling. The people, who always wel-
come outside influence, persist in suspecting Lady
Fredonia of having been instrumental in causing the
separation. Ehia's family may have said it; or a
servant may have got hold of this suspicion from
overhearing tImings said at the castle. Lady Fre-
donia's life was threatened, since the conspiracy was
suspected. Indeed, there remained no doubt in the
minds of many who remembered all the circum-
stances of John's accusation and Lady Marion's dis-
appearance, that both were victims of a studied per-
seemition, and the affair began to make a uQise. Old
Dr. Wilkins had never believed John's guilt, and,
having studied the indications of circumstances for
sonic time, caine at last to a conclusion with regard
to who were the instigators of the accusation.
Sir Henry Gordon was the person who prosecuted
John. The wily old doctor laid a trap for him to

bring him to confession. lie knew very well that,
in the sight of aristocracy at least, it was no crime to
dispose of an Irishman and he know, too, that some
of the aristocracy were not above superstition, lie
meant to see what he could make out from these two
starting-points. The doctor took occasion to visit his
old friend and brother mason, Gen. Arsdale, who,
besides being a brave man and warm friend, was fond
of having sport, when the expense to his victim was
not too great. His victim in the present instance
was one he had little compassion for; and accord-
ingly entered into the doctor's plans with great relish.
The doctor and himself were to make a tour of a por-
tion of the country most noted for being haunted by
ghosts, with the pretended object of seeing some old
-~ruins. Sir henry was invited to accompany them;
although he would have chosen some other destina-
tion than this, he could not ~vell refuse.
They had a very pleasant ride, enlivened by the
wit and humor of the general, who, as they came
near castle liurnes, all at once changed the conversa-
tion to the subject of ghosts, which were the terror of
that portion of the country. The doctor ridiculed the
belief in apparitions, and the general agreed with
him that they were a great humbug. But, Sir
henry thought differently. He ~vas positive there
were ghosts, for he had himself scen one; and he
thought it was wrong to doubt such things, and apt
to cause them to appear. The general laughed
derisively, and very much to Sir henry's disniay,
began challenging the ghosts of castle Ilurnes, coni-
manding them, if there ~vere any, to appear. The
0*

OR~ LIFE IN TWO WORLDS,


130      TlE ROMANCE OF AN IRISH GIRL~

words were hardly spoken, when, advancing through
tine dim light of a moonless evening, a tall figure, all
in white, made its appearance. Sir henry and his
horse were both terribly alarmed; and, after a
plunge or two on the part of the horse, Sir henry
found himself on the ground. Immediately the
sl)ectre seized him in its long gaunt arms, and he
fainted. But the apparition, which was a very
methodical one, soon revived him, and proceeded to
inquire of him, in ghostly tones, what part lie had
taken in the accusation and conviction of John
Woods. The guilty Sir IJenry, completely fright-
ened out of his wits, confessed the whole plot; and
J)romised repentance and penance. But this did not
satisfy the exacting spectre, who assured him in the
most sepulchral tones, that unless he immediately
made public confession, and cleared an innocent man
from disgrace, lie had only a short time to live.
Poor Sir Ihlenry! lie was quite exhausted with terror
when the doctor and general caine to his assistance,
which they were careful not to do until his confession
and promise had been obtained. Then, affecting to
have been bewildered iii the darkness, they made their
way to where he lay, quite exhausted, and assisted him
to remount his horse, which had not gone far away.
his friends ~y~ere very kind to him, and immedi-
ately accompanied him back to the general's house,
pretending to think it was the fall that had put him
in such a condition. They said nothing about having
seen anything extraordinary, well knowing that the
popular belief is that no two persons see an appari-
tion at the same time. But the unhappy man

130

OR, LIFE IN TWo WORLDS.        131
recollected his promise to confess, or die in a few
days; and there was no way left but to make a clean
breast of it.
Even private confession failed to bring security,
and he fell ill at Gen. Arsdell's. Dr. Wilkins gave him
every attention; and the priest, old Father Smith,
was called in to ease his soul. Father Smith told
him his confession was not public enough to satisfy
tIne ghost, and that he had no power to comfort him,
until the spirit was satisfied. The Church of Rome
had power over spirits of some kinds, but this one
appeared to be of an order very much dreaded; and his
only way to escape its torments, and prevent its reap-
pearance, was to fulfill its injunctions to the very letter.
All this was rare sport to the two men who had
planned the ghost, though they regretted the neces-
sity of using such means to procure justice. Mr.
XVoods was informed of the result of their experiment,
and deeply regretted his coldness to his son, and his
difficulty with his wife, since the same ~CVSOllS were
doubtless to blame for both. He threatened, should
Sir Henry recover, to treat him to another ghost.
But the one he had was more than he could endure,
and, after consulting the priests in vain, he fell into
a decline and died. The three l)C~5Oll5 who under-
stood his complaint, kept their own counsel, thinking
his life not worth saving. Before his death, his
friends proposed the sacrament, and Mr. Hamilton
was sent for to administer it; but in his ravings lie
made some accusations against that gentleman, which
so displeased him that he retired. Bishop Fredonia
then caine and gave him the rites of the church, soon


132      ThE ROMANCE OF AN IRISh GIRL;
after which he died, leaving many to suffer from the
fear of seeing him; even his enemies put up the
prayer, "God rest his soul."
Lord Charles Elia was somewhat troubled by time
death of Gordon, dying as he did of a guilty
conscience. It caused him to reflect upon the ten~
dency of his own care~r. If there 'is retribution f~r
sins, how is lie to atone for his life of transgression?
lIe had been accustomed to look upon religion as a
farce-a bngbcar, whose purpose was to keep the
poor and ignorant people in their place. lie saw
that time ministers of the Church of England, were
regarded by the English government as the priests
were by the people of Rome. The queen was head
of the Established Church, as much as the pope was
head of the Church of Rome. Oh, for a glimpse of
the truth! In Parliament, infidels, deists, unbelievers
and men of every belief, help to make, or rather
combine to make church laws. Though a man in
that station have the mark of the beast upon his
forehead, lie is entitled to the same amount of in-
fluence as if he were known to come from Abraham's
right hand, in heaven.
His father, whose one eye was an advertisement
of the !rime of murdering a servant, who~ in his
death-struggle deprived him of its mate, could
stand up and blacken the name of Cunningham with
his infamous lies, just as well as if he were an up.
right man and Christian gentleman. There was no
intrinsic power in virtue. It got no more respect
from the world than vice. If ministers knew the truth
of these things, why did they not preach it openly?

OR, LIFE IN TWO w0uU5.        133
Lord Charles consulted his father about Gordon's
case. The old lord had no doubt whatever that the
ghost of Lord Cunningham had actually beaten Sir
henry, and threatened him with his d~math. Ihul
Cunningham beemi alive, Gordon could have held his
own with lAin ; but being dead he had time power.
It was a most remarkable demonstration ; but not
more so than what had occurred to Sir Robert
Nelson, who had also been attacked, and had his am'ni
broken in three places by the spirit of Gordon, for
inducing him, while in this life, to be guilty of
injuring an innocent you~mg man in the way Woods
had been injured. Nelson, who was another victim
of superstition, which is bred in the bone of Catholic
communities, even tinder the eye of the established
church, was xvell enough convinced that his punish-
ment caine from the hand of a spirit; though the
proceeding was rather irregular for a ghost, and he
was inclined to think himself tinder the ban of the
fairies, who are more dreaded than the ghosts, in
Ireland.
There were old servants around Otininughamn
Castle, who, he had always been convinced, were
witches. He distinctly remembered the looks which
old Nelly Conner had given him when he had becit
at the castle on his evil errand of mischief to
Marion. Marion, having al~vays been a favorite
with the servants, was likely to find avengers, and he
had no doubt of Nelly's instrumentality in getting
him a drubbing from the fairies, lie even lived in
dread of being transformed, which is one mode of
fiLiry punishment. lie had hitherto been a member


134      TlE ROMANCE OF AN IRISh GIRL;

OR, LIFE IN TWO WORLDS.        135

of neither church, but was strongly drawn toward
the Catholic persuasion, as the one having most
Power over his presents enemies. iDr. Wilkins, who
attended to his wOtln(lccl arm, learned sernething of
his state of mind, and mischievously recommende(l
him to have Nelly come and take off the spell. The
doctor, in the meantime, instructed Nelly as to lici'
cue, and gave her liberty to make as much out of her
victim as she could. The weird old woman was
nothing loath to undertake her part, being in want of
the means to have a .9pree, and make reparation foi
the number of deaths that had lately passed un-
lio~~ored by a wake. !The hideous looks and affected
notions of the old witch put Nelson into such a fever
that he could not endure her in the room ; but she
was not to be trifled with, and acted her part better
than many more intelligent persons could have done.
She called upon him to confess all his sins before
witnesses; and after they were recorded, (lrew blood
from his arm that he might sign what he had con-
fessed in the red ink the htiries love. Bat she (lid
not confer upon him the repoSe for which he had
endured this horrible trial. Instead of removing the
spell as he expected, she pronounced upon him and
all his race a terrible curse. This was too fearful a
punishment, when it is considered that his faith in the
potency of blessings and curses was implicit. The
miserable man writhed and suffered under the curse
ot the fairies until his reason become impaired; and
from being a man of little intellect, lie became a
senseless idiot.

ChAPTER XIII.
IT seems strange that a nation, standing as high as
the English nation does, in the scale of mind, should
be so superstitious. With all her religion and litera-
ture, her orators and statesmen, her poets and fight-
in~ men, she is still thoroughly superstitious. 11ev
land is a land of ghosts and fairies. 11cr good, stout-
hearted people are more afrai 4 of witches than they
are of God: and have rnoi'e tear of treating fairies
disrespectfully, than the Divine Father of all.
It turned out in the case of James Green, that they
have reason for their fears. Green being of a skep-
tical turn of mind, took the liberty of doubting the
reality of the spirits who attacked Sir Robert in so
palpable a manuel', awl ventured to express his un-
belief.
Not long after, a noise in the night attracted his
attention, and upon rc~)airi1Ig to the 51)ot whence the
sound proceeded, he saw a circle of hundreds of the
"good people" dancing and fiddling. They paid 110
attention to hiiii until upon the close of their revels,
when the skeptical young man attempting to follow
them, they hastily in~ide a hearse of straws, and
mounting him upon it, compelled him to ride all over
Ireland, England and Scotland. At least that was
the story which became current!
Dr. Wilkins disliked to do anything to strengthen
the foolish fears of tile people; and yet a ghost was

134


136

TIlE ROMANCE OF AN IRISH GIRL;

too powerful an instrument to be rejected if it could
help him to accomplish his long cherished object of
helping John Woods to l~i~ liberty. General Arsdell,
too, was embarked in the same enterprise. The
genei'al had seine hopes of procuring John's pardon.
lie felt that his word ought to have some weight with
the Irish parliament, though personally a stranger to
the new Lord Lieutenant. Lord Fowler had resigned
upon becoming satisfied that the step lie had taken
in endorsing his son's mixed marriage, he had dis-
pleased many of his friends, and weakened his influ-
ence with the aristocracy. Reports of his having
become a Roman Catholic were set afloat by the
English residents, which in a considerable degree
hurt his standing among the Irish Protestants. The
entire north of Ireland was loud in denouncing him
at the time of the first terrible distress caused by the
potato rot, and called for him to make some effort to
relieve the sufferings of the people.
He saw that the collection' of i'ents, cuts and tithes
at such a time was unjust and cruel, and that while
such demands were being made, it was difficult to
preserve peace among the best subjects. lie made
an effort, at this time, to introduce into the British
Parliament a bill, asking for the suspension of taxa-
tion for the present year, and until the crops were
bettor. IJe was severely repulsed for proposing such
a measure, and instead of anything being done to al-
leviate the sufferings of the people, the i4abeas COP2?~8
act was suspended, and large bodies of troops sent to
preserve the peace, to prevent mutiny and complaint
among the starving Irish. The suspension of this

I

137

on, LIFE IN 'rwo ~VORLDS.

act gave an opportunity to hang up the sufferer in his
last moments, if lie rebelled against his destiny.
This soldier~goverllfflCnt is another one of Irehuid's
distresses. These vagabonds who are placed on the
island to guard its interests, are continually avengilig
on the people the slights received from the virtuous,
humble poor, who will not allo~v their daughters to
associate with them. It is no unconnuon thing for
these scoundrels to look out families who have eaten
their last mouthful of food, and, making capital out
of their necessities, promise aid, and profess love,
until ~ne of the daughters is prevailed upon to ac-
cept proposals of marriage, which is represented to
be honorable and binding; but which, at the end of
a few weeks or' months, is thrown up as worthless,
and the poor, deceived and deserted girl left to take
care of herself. Any one in the British Islands has
a better chance for a living than a soldier's wife, es-
pecially a soldier's wife in Ireland.
Lord Fowler wished to check these iniquitous pm'o-
ceedings if possible; but the government thought
best not to restrain the soldiers, for fear the army
could not be sustained without pre&amp;sng more men
than would be desirable. Finding himself opposed
and misrepresented on every hand, Lord Fowler soon
resigned; and a new incumbent, after the g vern-
inent's own heart, came into his place. The new
lieutenant, living at Dublin Castle in state, with a
chancellor and secretary, and a royal household es-
tablishment generally, was hardly as good a man, as
Fowler in his old age had learned to be.
Still, General Arsdeil, full of a desire to do some-


138      mi~ ROMAIWE OF AN IRISh GIRL;
thing for John Woods, flatters himself lie may be
able to acconipli~1i his desire by seeing the Lord
Lieutenant. Sir henry Gordon's confession, taken
in due form, was presented to his excellence. But
his lordship was of opinion it would not be safe to
grant the pardon; as this was a death-bed confession,
and the sick man might not have been in his right
mind. Should the prisoner prove hhnself ~vel1 he-
have(l in every respect, lie might l)al'don him just
before the expiration of his term, to save him the
disgrace of a full vrin; more than that he could not
promise to do. lie, Ii however, permitted the general
to see and talk with the prisoner, which was a great
favor to the latter, lie found him very responding,
and bitter in his feelings toward his enemies; even
threutcniiig to rake his revenge on them when once
more at liberty, it' lie had to return and serve out the
remainder of his life in prison to atone for it. But
the general sOon put him in a better state of mnimid
by recounting to him what had already befallen some
of his enemies; and by enlisting his sympathies in
the unknown fitte of Marion. John listened with
eager interest to the recital of the events which had
happened during his confinement; particularly to
that which concerned Marion and her sentiments
towar(l him. lie was glad she was gone to America,
where lie had some hope of some time joining hem'.
(leimeral Arsdell assured him lie might legendd upon
he~' comistancy, for she had shown all along the most
indonutable determination to contend for her liberty
of sentiment, in this as in other matter's. The gene-
ral was not what might be called a religious mimami

OR~ LIi~E IN TWO WORLI)S.       139
indeed, he found it hard to conform to the belief's or
requirements of the Church. For instance he had
been in battle, where every Christian counnandifleilt
is vjolated ; yet, he could not bring himself to repent
and abhor his sins there committed, as he supposed
he ought to (10. NeverthelesS, his real sentiments of
right came much nearer to the true Christian's stan-
dard than those held by many of the high Church
people ; aud us he had some fears that John wouhl
accuse God of foreordainilig all this train of injury
and suffering, and thereby lose confidence in hint, he
endeavored to set the matter in its true light before
the young man's mind. Nor was the old soldier s
instruction without its merit in John's case. The
prisoner's features gradually lost their expression of
stony despair, as the lesson went on; and, finally, he
declared himself very much renovated in spirit by
this timely sympathy and advice.
The fate of those unprincipled mcii who had helped
to bring on his misfortunes, was as shocking as his
own sufferings. lie had never believed in a special
providence; but the way in which punishment seemed
tollowitig upon sin, in the case of his enemies, almost
persiia(lCd him of the truth of proVi(lCiitial interposi-
tion. Lady Fredonia had certainly met with justice,
and found herself as much a victim of 1)ersecutioii as
once she had (lehghte(l to make others.
With this recolleCtioll to give him confidence in
God, and the knowledge that lie was cared for by a
few firm friends, raised up John from the depths of
revengefUl despair into which he had been thrown
by h~s undeserved misfortunes and disgrace. lie


140

I

THE ROMANCE OF AN IRIsH

promised rio more to reproach God, but to try to
keep his heart right, and see 'that his disposition was
not spoiled in the endurance of injustice, lie would
forget his own trials in remembering the unprotected
situation of Marion; and the uncertainty of her fate
would nerve him to endure the hardships of his con-
dition. Imprisonment in Ireland is more dreaded
than hanging, owing to the horrible cruelties pI'ac-
tised on the prisoners ; cruelties, the description of
which in this place, woulti be more shocking than
necessary. Suffice it that John resolved to endure
anything that might come to an end, in the hope of
being of. use to Marion, when he should regain his
liberty.
To speak, read or think of exhibitions of cruelty,
with no other Ol)ject than the gratification of our curi-
osity, is but a doubtful manner of amusing ourselves.
There is little enough care taken of our sensibilities;
a care which should l)e greatly increased. The
degree to which use deadens sensibility is hardly
credible except by those experienced in its effects.
One cause which makes the British such savages in
war, is the flict of their being taught from the cradle
all the monstrous acts of all those who have lived
before them, and educated to think it a mark of brav-
ery to be cruel. If a soldier is to be flayed alive, it
is a scene of public entertainment, for the rich and
the poor; and the person who counts most correctly
the blows as they fall, and can tell how far the blood
spirts, with most unerring certainty, is set down as the
person of strongest mind.
Gen. Arsdell used to say it was this kind of train-

OR~ LIFE IN T~VO WORLDS.

141

ing which enabled him to take the part he did take in
the war with the United States in 1S12. Under Gen.
Proctor he learned lessons of fiendish cruelty impos-
sible for him to have imagined; and confessed that he
learned to look upon a string of scalps on a pole as
the most gratifying sight possible ! It was the same
with all the soldiers in that war. A scalp, stretched
over a hoop, four inches in diameter, anti ~dried,
and Painte~l inside, was a trinket which they prized
above all others. Such was the memory of this
devilish excitement, that Arsdell confessed his reason
anti judgment were insufficient even yet to subdue
the exultation caused by the recollection; and t-hat
the humanity he sought to cultivate was purely arti-
ficial, though he knew it to be right. A terrible con-
fession to come from a man naturally of so kind a
heart!
On leaving the priSon, Gen. Arsdehl procured the
1)rOluise of the superintendent to 1)er11~it John to re-
ceive any message of consequence which might come
from Marion Cunningham, as well as an assurance
that, what could, would be done to alleviate his situ-
tion. But, withal, the l)rospect for either John or
Marion was dark enough when the nature of their
enemies was considered.
Lord Charles Elia, whose concern for the fate of
Sir Henry Gordon had tlriveii him to ask spiritual
advice of the bishop, had been adapted to the uses
and designs of his reverence, in the same manner
that others had been before him. After healing the
wounds, made by sin in Lord Elia's conscience, he
conversed with him on the subject of the late pro-


142

THE ROMANCE OF AN nHsn Giar~

ceedings of Lord Cunningham and lady Fredonia.
lie has come to the conclusion that it is necessary, in
order to establish good domestic govern mont; to get
the conti'ol of her ladyship's mind, through fear 01'
otherwise, as seems mumost expedient. This confidence
on the l)al't of the bishop met with a wam'm return
from Lord Charles. lie believes he has more power
either to amuioy or console her ladyship, as tIme case
requires, than any other person; and m'eadily enters
into a scheme for Lady Fredonia's better government.
Lord Charles was, it will be recollected, a suitor of
Marion's at a time when her parents preferred the
Duke of-; and lie still affected to retain a great
regard for her. Witim the bishop's consent he con-
sulted lady Fm'edonia on the subject of searching for
her daughter-a plan that had occupied her ladyship's
thoughts altogether since tIme inroad of the bishop's
daughters upon her house and comfort. These dis-
agreeable and overbearing persons afforded her a
pointed contrast to what her own (laughter might
have been to her, had she cultivated the natural con-
fidence of a child's heart toward its mother. Bitter,
indeed, has been the lesson, and late-perhaps too
fatally late-but she will make what reparation is in
her power to make. Anxiously looked the penitent
woman for the return of the ship Albion to the port
of Gahway; and anxiously did she question Captain
Robinson concerning her daughter, beggimug him to
give her address, that money mi ght be sent to her.
But the captain, fearing some stratagem, and faithful
to his instructions, refused to impart any information
concerning the young lady except al her command.

I

OR, LIFE IN TWO WORLDS.

143

This reserve on the part of Captain IRobinson foiled
~dl attempts to discover Marion's whereabouts, through
the only source she knew ot. her ladyship then
conceived the plan of Coining to America in person
to look for her. l3ut, in this (lesign she was steadily
opposed by the bishop; his oj)position, however,
being on the ground of imprudence and impractica-
bility. Therefore, when Lord Charles Elia 1)reSented
himself as her agent, and pretended to be actuated by
the sincerest affection for Marion, in doing so, her
ladyship was placed in extreme difficulty. She was
well aware that, by consenting to snch an arrange-
ment, she gave her sanction to the suit of Lord
Charles; and she knew, at the same time, that no-
thing could be more displeasing to Marion than that he
should come invested with this claim upon her.
Neither would it be acknowledged, she felt sure; but
the temptation to get her daugli~er back, by any
means, was too great to be easily resisted.
Mcan~~'hile, Lord Charles urged his request, and
the bishop sanctioned and encouraged the scheme.
How bitterly lady Fredonia regretted her former
severity with her daughter! The more she delib-
erated, time more her trouble increased. The bishop
on one hand, setting forth the dangers that beset the
path of young womanhood in Marion's m~protected
situation ; and the means whereby to 1)revail upon her
to return, on the other. She felt that to send Lord
Ehia to Marion ~vouhd be to juliet upon lieu' a real
calamity; while to refuse to do so would hrhvr down
on herself the enmity of the unprincipled lord and his
father. The anxiety of her mind overcame her


144      TIlE ROMANCE OF AN IRISh GIRL;

health. A consequent result was an attack of brain
fever.
Taking advantage of this evciit, Bishop Fredonia
a~siin ied the l'CSj)oflSibil ity, and dispatched Lord
Charles 111)011 this errahl(l SO repugnant to all those
most coi ~ccrn ed. her ladyship's disorder proved
very serious. It was sometime before her health was
established. ff4en it came to her ladyship's cars
that the bishop and his daughters had whispered it
about that she had lost her reason~-had become
idiotic. Unhappy Lady Fredonia! Every step she
took was upon thorns. She could not move nor speak
without exciting the impertinent remarks, or insolent
looks of her undutiful step-daughters. To complain
to their father would be useless, lie took good care
that the causes of complaint did not come within the
description of legal misdemeanor; any other affront
than that he did not think it worth while to notice,
since it did not forfeit their privileges at the castle.
Poor lady! she felt keenly that but for the con~
venienee of using her property, they would have
wished her out of the way.

144

CHAPTER XIV.
LORD ChARLES ELlA landed at Quebec fully assum'ed
he should find Marion Cunningham without any diffi-
culty. He had little idea of the extent of territory
he might have to travel over, nor of the difficulties
of such travel, with the object he had in view. He
used but little good sense or discretion in making his
inquiries.
Among those to whom he was referred as a shrewd,
vigilaiit assistant, was an original character from the
United States, named Bill Davis, a Green Mountain
boy-a sort of strolling trader, who, under a rough
exterior, concealed a vast deal of shrewdness and
spirit. From what he heard and observed of Lord
Elia's ~no~v plain Elia~ proceedings, he conjectured
that it would be doing no harm to have relations
with him, and therefore listened favorably to the pro-
posals of the lord. With true Yankee quickness, he
matured his plans for getting both profit and amuse-
ment out of him. On the other hand, Elia judged
from Bill's appearance that it was a great condescen-
sion for him to have any business with lAin what-
ever; only the necessities of tile case made it impor-
taut to secure his services, as lie was now convinced
they would be valuable. With this mutual good
understanding, the acquaintance progressed. lie
used no reserve in explaining his purposes to his
'7

145

OR~ LIFE IN TWO WORLDS.


146      TIlE I~OMANCE OF AN IRISh GIRL

OR, LIFE IN TWO WORLDS.

Yankee confederate. This confidence was plentifully
bedewed with pi'oinises of reward, and with pota-
tions which lii~ lordship from time to time ordered.
Elia's knowledge of Americans, aside from a little
information concerning Washington and Franklin,
was very meagre indeed. That men who were not
lords could be high-souled, independent gentlemen,
never had occurred to hirn--inucli less, that a long,
lank, rough-looking fellow, who had never been in
Britain, could have an idea he was as much of a man
as a live lord. It fell out, therefore, that some of the
questions put to him by Davis were considered im-
pertinent, and Elia was indiscreet enough to tell him
so; adding a threat to "chastise him if lie continued
his ifl8oleflce."
"By gracious! I am ready to be chastised, if you
think you can do it," answered Davis, his eyes flash-
ing fire.
Liquor had made Elia a little obtuse in his percep-
tions, and lie was bold enough to take his antagonist
by the hair, when a well-directed blow from till
Davis' huge fist extracted two of his front teeth, and
otherwise mutilated his countenance. Davis was in-
stantly sorry he had punished a drunken lord so
severely, and made haste to bathe his face, and do
what he could for his comfort.
This little exhibition of pugilism was very much
relished by a crowd of Irishmen, whose native in-
stincts make them love a good fighter, and Bill Davis
became quite a lion. Indeed, wherever h~ went, in his
character of Yankee trader, he succeeded in making
his national peculiarities felt. Going into an office

in Montreal to transact some business, one of the
otheerS observed that he did not remove his hat, and
ordered liiiim to do so without delay. his command
not l)eing obeyed, the officer knocked oft' the offend-
ing hat with the point of his sword. Bill procee'~le(l
with his business. When the transaction was coni-
pleted, be turned around, and in a tone not to be mis-
taken ordered the officer to pick up his hat or take a
thrashing. The queen's officer, being convinced that
discretion was the better part of valor, rather surlily
returned Bill his hat. This was not long after tho
patriot war, and there was not the bost of feeling ex-
isting between the people of the States and Canada.
Many of the Americans residing in Canada had lost
friends and property during the disturbances. Bill
D~ivis being among that number, therefore he was not
particularly well-disposed toward the queen's subjects.
had Elia understood perfectly the sort of estima-
tion in which he was held by such men as Bill Davis
and others of his countrymen, he would, probably,
have been more discreet. Unfortunately for him, he
was in that unsophisticated state a freshly-imported
Irish lord is always in danger of being, and often
gave utterance to sentiments not quite orthodox
among Americans. His first mistake having resulted
so seriously, he would have been glad to have dis-
pensed with any further acquaintance with persons
of this description, had lie not been led to suppose
his hope of finding Marion Cunningham depended
upon cultivating a better acquaintance with Bill
Davis-an opinion Bill cunningly fostered by many
carefully-studied remarks.

147

146


148      TIIIi~ ROMANCE OF' AN IRISH GIuL                                        OR~ LIFE IN TWO WORLDS.          149

Elia, having conquered his repugnance to his friend
of such startling prowess, finally commenced over-
tures upon the subject of being furnished with infom'-
niation regarding tke Miss Cunningham whom Davis
knew so much about; and was assured by Bill lie
could obtain no further information from him until
he was made acquainted with the case in all
its particulars, as informing on young ladies in
the United States, without good and sufficient rea-
sons, was enough to entitle a man to a "ride on a
rail."
In answer to Ehia's inquiries as to what manner
of excursion this might be, Bill gave a thrilling, yet
graphic description of this national amusement, very
munch to his listener's edificatiomi, and consternation,
too, for Bill did miot disguise the truth that there was
some danger of his lordship being honored by this
ceremony, should lie be foumid engaged in any under-
handed proceedings with regard to Miss Cunmiinghiam.
The result of this caution on the part of Bill was to
procure an offer from Elia of the entire agency in the
affair, with assurances of a sufficient reward in case
he succeeded in restoring Miss Cunningham to his
guardianship. Being thus taken into his lordship's
confidence, Bill begati to work the wires to suit his
plans of gain and amusement together.
No sooner had he heard Ehia's story, and guessed
at the probable amount of sincerity and principle in
his lordship's mind, than he suddenly came out with
the confession that the story was known to him be-
fore; and, not only so, but Miss Cunningham, from
having placed confidence in him, had more recently

148

149

become attached to him, and he hoped soon to make
her his wife
Marion Cunningham yOU,. wife !" exclaimed
Elia, his aristocratic instincts violently aroused.
"Presumptuous villain! I ought to punish you for
your insolence."
"Suppose you try that, Mr. Lord," coolly replied
Bill. "This is a free country-at least on our side
the line, and we generally love who we please and
marry who we can. If Miss Cunningham thinks she
likes inc next best to that Woods whom you got into
prison, and I like her, and am likely to get a nice
little property with her, I should like to know how
you are going to interfere in the matter. In this
country we usually arrange these matters to suit our-
selves, and do not submit to be called scoundrels
either. If you behave yourself like a gentleman, you
may get an invitation to the wedding on the ground
of old acquaintanceship."
With this condescending remark Bill closed the
interview, and left Quebec without delay, calculating
that Elia would be on the alert to observe his move-
ments. Nor was his judgment of the man wrong;
for he had not left the city many miles behind, before
Lord Charles was upon his track, attended only by
one servant. He was led on by the hope of being
able to surprise Marion, and get her away, upon the
authority with which lie had come armed from Lady
Fredonia. He had not yet, however, seen the end of'
difficulties besetting the road to success.
Bill Davis, well knowing who was upon his scent,
kept up an appearance of harry and caution; and


150      TILE ROMANCE OF AN IRISh GIRL;
when he had arrived at a little towir in Vermont
near the New York line, suddenly increased his
travelling party by the addition of a mysterious
female, and three male attendants.
With these companions he hastened over to White-
hall, New York, with Elia close at his heels, fully
assured that, unless he made all possible haste, Ma-
rion would be lost to him forever. Upon arriving at
Whitehall, the lady and her party were nowhere
visible, but Bill Davis was cosily smoking his cigar
at the principal hotel, lie appeared surprised to see
his lordship so soon after parting from hini at
Quebec, arid consented, with a feigned reluctance, to
have a private interview with him.
"Now," said his lordship, "I am certain you wish
to marry Miss Cunningham to obtain her fortune.
But, it is very doubtful whether you would be able
to get possession of it during your lifetime ; for, of
course it would be contested by her relatives, who
would be outraged by her marrying a person of no
birth. To save you all this trouble and disappoint-
ment, and to secure you a comfortable fortune mi-
mediately, I propose to pay you a satisfactory sum
for assisting me to g~t possessioir of Miss Cunning-
ham, whom I have promised to return to her mother
in Ireland, at the earliest moment possible. What
do you say to the coInh)rolnise?"
I say it can't be done," said Bill positivelyy : "for,
providing I was willing to give the young lady up,
which I aint, you could never get her away with you
in all creation. She would sooner die than go to
Ireland while sonic of tlmemii folks is livin'."

OR, LIFE IN TWO WORLDS.       151

"But, suppose she had to go-that she could not
help it?" said Elm.
" Oh, you don't think I am going to help kidnap
a gii'l, do you ?" asked Bill, indignantly.
Perhaps not, exactly," answered Ehia; "but,
couldn't you contrive to deceive her a little, for her
own (rood? For instance, cannot you get up a hurried
marriage, and substitute mc for the bridegroom-or
something of this sort? You have heard of such
things, I presume ?"
"The devil 1 have I" shouted Bill. "Do you think
I am going to Jo as mean a piece of business as
that? I should like to see the color of your gold
first."
"Very well; how much shall it be-a thousand
pounds ?"
"A thousand, indeed! I wouldn't do it for twiec
that amount."
Perhaps you will for three times that amount?
Come, three thousand pounds ought to make you
very comfortable here in the States, and enable you
to marry whom you please."
"It's a dirty, mean business," said Bill, reluctantly;
"and I don't like to marry a girl to a man against her
wishes; but, perhaps it would be a good thing for
her, after all. I'll take time to consider on iL"
This was a very satisfactory conclusion of the
negotiation as far as Eli2 was concerliC(l ; as lie had 110
doubt about the final result of the compromise. Pill
took a day to consider about it, when lie returned with
the following plan: Elia was to give him a check
for the three thousand, in return for which lie was to


152      T1IL~ ROMANCE OF AN IRISh GIRL;                                   OR~ LIFE IN TWO WORLDS.       153

secure his (Elia's) marriage with Miss Cunningham
by stratagem, within a week. But, in addition to
the money paid to him, Elia must select a pretty
farm in the State of New York, buy it amid deed it to
his wife beforehand. This was to satisfy Bill's con-
science, who said Miss Cunningham might prove
refractory after marriage; he could not promise that
she would be pleased with her husband, and it would
not be fair to marry a woman and get all her pro-
perty, without settling something oti her! Elia
thought there was something reasonable in this, al-
though the draft upon his purse was rather heavy.
He consoled himself with the recollection of Marion's
six hundred thousand which was to balance it, and
finally consented. After the bargain had been coin-
pleted, Bill congratulated his lordship on the hap-
piness lie would have. "I should hate to be in your
shoes," said he to Elia, "for that woman is awful
high-spirited, and will make you some trouble, I
haven't any doubt. You'd better be kind o' careful
of her at first, or she'll fly all to pieces with spite, at
finding it aint me she's married to."
This advice was very good humoredly received by
Lord Charles, who had his own opinion about
Marion's high spirits. But lie thought he might
venture to try them, since lie had all things in
readiness to place her ladyship in safe keeping,
should she prove too difficult to appease. The time
approached for the marriage, which was to be per-
formed at a house in the country, under very roman-
tic circumstances. Bill said he had persuaded his
bride that it would be highly sentimental to be

married by starlight, in an arbor, at the foot of the
garden. Accordingly, when the hour for the cere-
mony arrived, Elia, disguised to resemble Bill as
closely as possible and attended by that dignitary as
groomsman, repaired to the arbor where the few
witnesses were assembled, and where the dim light
made recognitioii nearly impossible. Bill, knowing
that it would not be proper for Elia to speak for fear
of being betrayed by his voice, secretly hurried on
the affair through the person who was to give the
bride away and the officiating minister, who called
upon the parties to come forward and be united in
matrimony almost as soon as the gentleman ap-
peared. The ceremony was performed after the man-
ner of the Episcopal Church, and the responses made
in tones so low and constrained as not to be recog-
nized by either party.
When the couple were pronounced man and wife,
the company proceeded to the house, the bridegroom
whispering all sorts of suitable assurances in the
bride's ear on the way. Arrived at the house, the
happy couple stepped forth into the Ii o'ht of haifa dozen
tallow candles. Lo! the consternation of Charles
Ehia, lord! By the hand he held a scrubby, pock-
marked, red-haired, sour visaged Irish girl-wife of
Lord Charles Ehia, and owner in her own right of a
pleasant farm in the State of ~ew York.
" Zounds! what is this ?" cried his lordship, drop-
ping her hand and stepping back.
"What do you mean, sir ?" asked the person who
had given her away.
"I mean that this is not Marion Wallace Cunning-


154

THE ROMANCE OF AN IRISH GIRL;

ham, the lady I presumed I was marrying," ans-
weredElia, angrily.
"This young lady's name was Marion Cunning-
ham; it is now Lady Marion Elia, by your leave,"
interrupted Bill; "a darned sight too good for such
a creature as you.~~
"Scoundrel, do you call me a creature after this
imposition! Do you forget who I am
"Not by a long-shot," retorted Bill. "I have
kept that in mind since I first met you-that yo~t are
a d-d scoundrel-not me. I have had a long enough
acquaintance with you now. This girl here, if
you treat her well, is your wife; if not she can get a
divorce from you, and alimony to boot. But, be
precious careful how you carry yourself in this free
and independent State of New York, or we'll treat
you yet to a ride on a rail I"
At mention of this terrible punishment, kept in
readiness by United States savages for men who
wanted to kidnap either niggers or white girls, Elia
was silent.
Could Elia have known his wife's early history, he
would have had the satisfiiction of knowing that she
was named for the identical Marion Wallace Cnn-
ningham he was in search of, she being one of the
poor motherless and fatherless children his lordship
had provided for on his estate; and who had been
called after his daughter in gratitude for the timely
charity which had saved her life. Having emigrated
to the United States with the family in whose charge
she had been placed, Bill Davis was fortunate enough
to find her, while looking among the Irish for

I

OR~ LiFE IN TWO WORLDS.

155

railroad hands; and had made her instrumental in
securing himself a snug little fortune, as well as in
punishing a man whom he discovered at a glance to be
a bully and a villain. having secured the girl a
good support also, he congratulated himself on
having done quite a philanthropic thing. Whether
she lived with him or not he did not care, as it was
impossible for Elia to divorce her; and the com-
plaint would doubtless come from ker. It certainly
looked very much as if she would soon have occasion
enough to make complaint, although Bill was pro-
fuse of his cautions to his lordship to be careful of
his conduct.
Rough and reckless as Bill Davis was in deport~
ment, at heart he had some admirable qualities.
His grandfather had been a soldier in the Revolution,
a witness of many British cruelties, the memory of
which he had transmitted to his descendants. Often
had he told the story of the beautiful, but unhappy
Miss McCrea, who was murdered by savages in
British employ; and of an act he had witnessed at
the surrender of Fort Gris~vold. When the British
officer asked, "Who commands this fort ?" "[did,
but you do now," answered the brave Col. Ledger,
delivering up his sword, which was taken and in-
stantly run through his body by the brutal officer.
He had seen prisoners butchered, and the wounded
piled on carts and run dowim a steep hill, to dash
their brains out against the trunks of trees. Being
one of the number to make up one of these fearful
loads, he had escaped death by the breaking of both
of his legs.


156      THE ROMANCE o~' AN iRISH GIRL;
So often had Bill heard these stories when a boy,
the spirit of his Revolutionary sire had become so
rooted in his breast, that he was not easily impressed
with the merits which aristocratic title conferred on
its possessor: and when an opportunity offered, as in
the present instance, to humble one of those unworthy
representativess of greatness," he could hardly re-
frain from the indulgence.
Notwithstanding Elia's pecuniary losses, he could
have borne the whole infliction better than the latter
part of it, which was the getting into the papers of
the ridiculous hoax to which he had been subjected
by the shrewd Yankee. This not only made his
mortification public, but gave Marion an intimation
to put her on her guard, and probably defeated his
expectation of finding her, entirely. Finding, how-
ever, that lie could do nothing better than fall back
upon his dignity with the people of Whitehall, lie
put on more lordly airs than ever; and, though not
abusing his wife, supported her separately. He com-
plained a good deal of the want appreciation among
Americans for l)eople of refinememit, and was stir-
prised that the occasional influx of people of rank
made so little impression on their society.
"What do English gentlemen do, to preserve their
daughters from marrying any of these clowns admitted
to your society ?" he asked of a Whitehall gentleman.
"Oh, they have not much difficulty in that re-
spect," was the ans~ver. "Sometimes an English lord's
daughter runs off with her father's coachman; but
generally, there is not much demand for them among
our better class of young men."

OR~ LIFE IN TWO WORLDS.        157

Disgusted with the stupidity of Americans, ia~ toto,
Elia set out for New York to ilud an attorney who
knew enough to procure him a legal separation from
his wife.
About the same time Gen. Arsdehl arrived at
Quebec, ostensibly upon a pleasure excursion; but
really hoping to hear something of Marion. lie in-
quired about Ehia, and learned lie had been there
also that lie had gone to the United States. lie was
successful, too, in learning that a young lady named
Marion Wallace, answering the description of Marion
Cunningham, had been engaged in service in a
French merchant's family ; but had lately mysteri-
ously disappeared. From what he could gather con-
cerning her circumstances-ignorance of labor-
reserve about her history, etc., lie felt quite sure lie
had narrowly missed finding the object of his solici-
tude at once. Naturally enough he connected her
disappearance with the advent of Elia ; and resolved
to find out the whereabouts of the latter personage.
Follo~ving up the clue obtained at Quebec, he suc-
ceeded in tracing Ehia to Whitehall, where he was
directed by the account of his marriage given in a
paper which had been handed to htini in an office
where lie had entered with the purpose of adver-
tising for his lordship.
Delighted with the account of Elia's adventures
thus obtained, the 01(1 general hurried on with the
purpose of congratulating him and urging his imme-
diate return to Ireland. But, on coming to the scene
of his lordship's romance, he found only the bride,


158      THE ROMANCE OF AN IRISH GIEL'                                       OR, LIFE IN TWO WORLDS.        159

whoiti lie cautioned to keep a good lookout on her
husband.
Finding that Elia was doubtless still ignorant of
Marion's vicinity, the general returned to Quebec to
investigate in ore closely the iufbrination which might
lead to her discovery. here he found that pool'
Marion must have had many difficulties to contend
with: for, as she was determined upon remaining in-
cognito, she shared the disgrace and contempt which
has been before mentioned as attaching to girls
whose manner betrays good breeding, yet who arrive
friendless and penniless among strangers. By the in-
fluence of Captain Robinson she obtained a place,
where, for a long time, she worked only for her
board; her knowledge of what a servant's duties
were having heretofore been of quite a different
character front that required to enable her to fill a
servant's place. Tile poverty of her wardrobe con
tasted forcibly with her manners and lady-like
knowledge; and caused, as it always must, criticizing
remarks : and even the friendship of Captain Robin-
son was turned rather to her discredit. how hard
the rule which deprives tile children of misfortune
of all the privileges of life,-even the friendship of
the generous and good! Marion met with the same
amount of distrust always attending mystery; and
in common with others who have the discretion to
keep their own affairs to themselves, was supposed
to be governed by other motives than the true ones.
The dictum of the ~vorld, however, is-" tell every-
thing you know about yourself-" and then-

"Wilat a fool not to know enough to keep your own
secrets."
Marion not only had her Own troubles to bear,
but, occasionally, her sympathy for others brought
her into their troubles also. it was her fortune to
have her attention drawn to a case of a peculiarly
toncllulg nature. Among tile hundreds of others
seeking places, was one delicate, lady-like little crea-
ture, whose story met with only derision and con-
tempt; but for whom Marion had great sympathy,
because she knew that such histories were not iimm-
comilloll in Great Britian. The poor child claimed
to be a wife, and soon became a mother. 11cr help-
less and pitiful situation gamed her no compassion in
Quebec, except such as Marion extended to her at
the risk of being thought " no better than her."
Finding her story discredited entirely, Mariomi ad-
vised her to refrain from mentioning her trials to any
one, as it appeared that those ~vho accepted their fhte
without lnurmnmlrillg, and coIlSOilted to be thought
anything of, were more successful in finding friends,
or "patrons" at least, than those whose delicacy,
shrunk from such suspicionS. Besides, there is a joy
even in sorrow, so long as it is yours alone ; and a
secret Ilas a stimulus while it belongs only to you,
which evaporates the moment it is transferred to an-
otlIer. Marion's unllappy young protegee ilad cx-
pected a very different reception from the people of
Canada-a mistake frequently arising out of the re-
presentations given in letters from parties residiimg
there to their friends ill the mother country. In-
stead of finding help for the needy, or work for the


160      THE ROMANCE OF AN IRISH GIRL;
Willifl(r she found contempt and denial on every
hand.
The lady with whom Marion was living, objected
strongly to the part she was enacting in the case of
the poor young mother, and "warned her faithfully,"
as she said, "against venturing her own character
and interests in that way ;" but Marion, with the
firmness which had always belonged to her, per-
severed in doing what she conceived to be right; and
resolved to suffer the consequences. How, indeed,
these pious ladies of Quebec expected the young
mother and child to live, if all men filled with the
same pious horror of sin as then~selves,-or how they
expected to clear their skirts of her blood, if they let
her die, did not appear in the discussion. Certain it
is, they were filled with alarm at the terrible state of
morals in Quebec, and resolved not to countenance
those shameless women who have no more sense of
propriety than to be unfortunate, poor and suffering;
and not to keep servants who are engaged in en-
couraging such a state of things! These angels of
purity, whose innocent hearts surmised evil enough
about Marion's poor little charge to have sunk fifty
like her in perdition, held female prayer meetings
where they might deplore the terrible wickedness of
their sex. The most charitable of them prayed
fervently to God to feed the hungry and clothe the
naked, after having listened to the reports of the
Visiting Committee and ascertained that there were
a great many of that destitute class in and about
their city, whom somebody omtgkt to fced and clothe.
The lady with whom Marion was living was fore-

OR, LIFE I~4 TWO WORLDS.        161

most in these meetings, and related to her sympa-
thizing listeners the trials she had experienced with
her servant, who, she said, she suspected to be a cast
off mistress of Captain Robinson, as he had ap-
peared to be the only acquaintance she had. The
girl, she said, really seemed to have been raised like
a lady, and to have been much better educated than
many of the Quebec ladies. One of her society
suggested that, if she was really a person of educa-
tion, she ought to be promoted to some higher
service-made a teacher, or something of that sort.
Mrs. IMI   "that wo
Oh no," said         ,        uld never do at
all; because she is a person of a very strong mind,
who, if she were placed in a better position, would
presume to take on airs and dictate right and wrong
to all of us. Eveim now she defies my advice and
authority, and acts the part ot' patron to a person of
doubtful reputation whom she has taken a fancy to.
No, it would never do; she would always be drag-
ging in some person of that sort, and asking us to
give our protection and support to, nobody knows
who. For my part," continued Mrs. M , "I think
it shameful in the mother-country to send us all her
outcasts to provide for. If these gii'ls are not fit to
live in Great Britain, they are not fit to live in
Canada. Even if this Marion Wallace has not been
guilty of any outrage against law or order in Ireland,
where she says she came from, and has been drivemi
away from home by some mnisfortune which she is
too proud to explain, she is still not such a person as
one wants to employ. The children soon become
attached to her, and more frequently ask her opinion


162

I

TIlE ROMANCE OF AN IRISH GIRL;

than mine; and even Mr. M- inquires of liner
what is proper in certain cases, instead of asking me /
One cannot keep order in the house under such circurn-
stances, and I prefer a servant who is only a servant,
with no prospect of ever becoming anything else."
After Lord Charles Elia's appearance in Quebec,
and Marion's disappearancee, 'some began to suspect
who shine might have been, and these same censorious
ladies felt rebuked in their consciences-not on ac-
count of humanity in general, but because they had
dealt so severely with a person of real consequence,
who might sometime be able to return their con-
tempt with interest. They sheltered themselves be-
hind the fact that she had been so reserved about her
circumstances, and preserved a mystery that would
naturally engender suspicion. They seemed to for-
get tileir treatment of poor Jennie Argyle, who had
confessed her situation, and received only scorn and
neglect for her confidence; and who died unpitied
aftet' Marion was forced to leave her to their tender
mercies! Marion's experience with tile world had
taught her never to address herself to the cornyassian
of her fellow creatures, the only sure result of such a
course being over-attention for a time, if you suc-
ceed in awakening an interest at all, and neglect
afterward; besides the feeling of obligation incurred,
Wuliell becomes insupportable irksome, especially
after tile reaction Ilas taken place.
(4en. Arsdell, in his inquiries after Marion, blun-
dered upon the s~ry of her protegee, Jennie, his own
brother's daughter, who had died ill a foreign land,
leaving an infant to the mercy of strangers, because

OR, LIFE IN TWO WORLDS.

1613

she, too, had been guilty of the oft-repeated sin of
marrying out of her own rank. Torn from lici'
husband and sent abroad without means of support,
only to be got "out of the way," she had, literally,
been murdered by the cruelty of her own ththcr,
aided and abetted by the cruelty of society in
general. had 11cr husband been able to follow and
find her, any time soon enough to have saved her litb,
they might have heeti more hap~)y in this country
than at home, where tile broader distinctions of rank
would have constantly annoyed tliemii in their ill-
sorted connection. lint no such happy accident of
fortune awaited her, doomed to an early and l)itiful
death for assuming the prix~ilege of choosing her life-
long associate.
Upon making this melancholy discovery, and
finding 1mev child still in the hands of tile woman
who had furnished her lodgings at Marion's expense,
the general at 011CC proposed to send both woman
and child to Ireland. But this l)roposition brought
upon him time Suspicion of being the person who had
thus betrayed and deserted the girl ; and those who
had done nothing for her while living, now that she
was dead, found occasion to be very indignant at her
supposed betrayer. The general was therefore forced
to exiAain his relationship and the right lie had to
adopt her child, and also to defend her fair fume
from the blame of having done anything worse than
to marry according to her inclinations. He had her
remains removed from tile potter's field to a vault,
and a proper memorial made of her miatrie and
virtues.


164      THE ROMANCE OF AN IRISH GIRL;                                       OR, LIFE IN TWO WORLDS.       165

This sad business put an end to all pleasure from
the old general's visit. When he had been in
Canada before, it was on quite a different errand.
Then he thought England's the only government on
earth which insured liberty to all her sons and
daughters; no~v he had an opportunity of judging
of this boasted "liberty," and lie mentally resolved
to fi glit no more in such causes. I-Ic did not care
how soon all America l)ecame a republic. This bar-
barous conduct on the part of his own brother, in
common with other men of rank in his country,
shocked his humanity and disgusted him with the
selfishness of aristocracy.
In Quebec, the loyal part of the gentry were very
much chagrined at the account the papers gave of
Elia's subjection to Yankee wit and daring, in his late
n'iatri~nonial adventure. The fact of his having
Lard before his name was sufficient, in their estima-
tion, to entitle him to more respectful treatment. It
made them desirous, too, that lie should do some-
thing to distinguish himself among those "indepen-
dent New Englanders, who turned up their noses at
titles." Already, they imagined, their example had
disaffected many of the Canadians, and made them
insensible to the blessings bestowed by the good
queen upon their undeserving heads. They dis-
liked exceedingly to be reminded that, during the
last war, many ~C~5OIl5 from the States had been
aken for treason, carried to England, tried and con-
demnued to death-persons, too, who on'ce came
from Great Britain, and were forced to seek a living in
the United States, or die of want. Now that they had

found homes worth fighting for, and plenty to make
life endurable, they were seized and taken back to
(lie as traitors. The United States had retaliated by
imprisoning tiwir subjects and refushvr to deliver
them up, except in return for those citizens retaine(l
by Great Britain. The consequence of this pI'omlt
action was the return of the condemned; and the
influence of this COnceSsion upon many of the citi-
zens of Canada was disagreeably I)erceptible to the
loyalists, to whoni anything that reminded theni
of their decreasing consequence was extremely
obnoxious.
These humane gentlemen interested themselves in
endeavoring to hunt from her hiding-place this
Marion Cunningham, who had dared to set at naught
the authority of the aristocracy. Every Pimnily who
had an Irish gil'l of any intelligence in its service
was upon the alert to detect any signs of being ill at
ease; and each one hoped to be the discoverer of
the fugitive's asylum. Whether they would have
succeeded or not, had it not beemi for Gen. Arsdell's
movements, is not known. The old general , from
being known to be her friend, was as closely observed
as she would have been, and the direction of his
thoughts almost guessed at; however, lie (lid not suc
ceed in doing more toward finding Marion, than
more effectually to stir up the public curiosity about
her.
After giving up the search in Canada, the general
paid a visit to the States, and especially to the sceime
of Gen. Proctor's famous defeat by the little band
of Buck-eyes, under Major Croghiam at Lower San-


166      TIlE ROMANCE OF AN IRISh GIRL;
dusky, in Ohio. The general is not so devoted to his
country that he cannot admire prowess and valor in    I
an enemy, especially when that enemy is a mere boy
in command of 150 men, opposed to 500 regulars
an(l 800 Indians. lie had a curiosity to see these
people at home who are capable of doing such extra-
ordinary fighting. The old general smiled grimly to
himself, as he fancied the sensations of the British
commander, who, after sending such terrible threats
of extermination and scalping to the little band in
the fom't, was obliged to retire, not only without forc-
ing them to surrender, but covered with confusion
himself. The old man was inclined to think the little
coinpaiiy had heaven enlisted on its side, against
which neither regulars nor Indians could ever pre-
vail. These men, he thought, must have realized
the sentiment that all men were born free and equal:
and that God had made them guardians of the soil,
and protectors forever of certain inalienable rights
which had come to them as a gift from heaven.

OR~ LIFE IN TWO WORLDS.        167

ChAPTER XV.
WnILE Gen. Arsdell was musing over thesethmino~s
IMIai'ion was subjected to severe trials in Bytown,
Canada West, to which place she had escal)ed in safety.
In a few days after arriving there she was taken ill olin-
flammatiomi of the lungs. Unfortunately, the physician
she employed, though considered the most skillful in
the place, was not a person of unimpeachable habits,
or of the strictest integrity. One peculiarity of his
disposition was to eonsi(Ier everybody his enemy who
treated him ~vith reserve, and to be very censorious
with all who fell under his displeasure. Great as was
his curiosity about time affiuirs of others, and his deter-
mination to be in everybody's confl(henee, he could
xot keep the secrets which were intrusted to him. lie
was not only curious, but meddlesome and suspicious,
rendering his friendship nearly as fatal as his enmity.
It was unfortunate that Marion, in her peculiar cir-
cumnstances, should have fallen into such hands ; but,
for some reason, God suffers those who have taken the
initiative in suffering to go on through all its degreess
before lie gives theni rest. Marion's reserve concern-
ing her history, and the circumstances which sent her
alone to this place, inflamed Dr. Kimug~4cy's curiosity
and distrustt to &amp;uch a degree that it was becoming
seriously unpleasant to her in her pecumliam'ly helpless
condition, when afihirs took on a new l)hlase, fromiu the
interference of a person in Quebec-time only omme who


IGS      TIlE ROMANCE OF At{ IRISh GIRL,
took, any real interest in her, or who knew anything
of her whereabouts. This person was a Mr. West-
a good man, and a Free-mason. He feared from
what he saw, that Marion would fall into the hands of
Elia before a much longer time had elapsed, unless he
could excite for her the friendship of the people of
Bytown; and, with this kind intention, he had
mentioned the matter in co~ilidence to one of his
Masonic brethren, telling him to speak of it in the
Lodge, but nowhere else at present; as, until they
could be of service to her, it would be better to keep
their knowledge entirely secret. Thus, the very in-
formationi Dr. Kingsley was longing to obtain, caine
into his possession through his membership with the
Lodge, who had no thought that he would not use the
ordinary discretion required of its members.
But, the good doctor could not keep the story from
his wife, and she could not keep it from another
woman whose husband was a lawyer, and was ex-
pected to manage Marion's case for her if it became
necessary. This latter lady, Mrs. Lee, had not, as it
subsequently appeared, the most perfect confidence
in her husband; and, as he, more true to his Masonic
pledge, kept his knowledge of Marion a secret, even
from his wife, she became jealous of her, and was lay-
ing up in her heart all manner of spite against the day
when an occasion should offer for showing it. At
length, Mr. Lee discovering that his calls upon Marion
had already been made the subject of remark, one
day asked her to accompany him to see his client,
who was still very much out of health. Accordingly,
Mrs. Lee went to see her, and found her very feeble

OR~ LIFE IN T~V0 W0RLI)S.         169

and nervous, so much so, she was impelled to express
her pity, and her husband hoped she was satisfied.
But, whether she saw anything to pity or not, it did
not prevent her expressing certain sentiments to Mrs.
Kingsley, who reported them to her husband, who, in
his turn, mentioned thiemii in terms of great indigna-
tion to Marion. This indiscretion on the part of the
doctor, pi'oduced still further indiscretion on the part
of Marion, who, ill and excitable, could not control
herself as well as formerly, and expressed her con-
tempt for and independence of Mrs. Lee's opinions;
not fearing, however, that her physician would repeat
whatever she might say, under such provocation.
But, as usual, the doctor told his wife, and his wife
went straight to Mr&amp; Lee with it; and the Ioor jea-
lous, spiteful woman needed no greater cause to wage
a deadly war on the offender. The gossips, of whom
there is always a majority in a provincial town, were
set to work, uttering all sorts of c&amp;njectures about,
and insinuations against the stranger, who caine
amongst them under circumstances so extraordinary;
while, in the meantime, Marion found the Kingsleys
amongst her worst because her most indiscreet slan-
derers. Mrs. Kingsley had been a very ambitious
woman once, whose Pride had been humbled by the
career of the doctor, whose dissipation had caused his
expulsion from the church of which she was a mem-
ber. She had suffered herself, from the scandal of the
vul gal', at the time of her marrying with the doctor',
whose first wife died suddenly, and, as it was hinted,
under circumstances of gre at mystery. The gossips
had not spared her in connection with the doctor.
8


170

THE ROMANCE OF AN II~ISII GIRL

Thus for some time her course had been anything but
a pleasant one. To cap the climax of her annoyances,
her husband xvas dismissed from the church for mis-
demeanors of an undeniable character. Ever since
this event she seemed to evince a feverish desire to find
faults of equal magnitude hi others, in order to dhnin-
ish the comparative greatness of the doctor's offences.
~or did the doctor himself seem altogether above
the same weakness, of fishingg to bring People down
to his own level, as he was sure to report to h~r all
he heard, and repeat to her all lie surmised. Into
such hands ~Iarion found herself committed
By this time her story, or such parts of it as were
known to any one, was pretty freely circulated among
the people of Bytown. The expressions of opinion
were various; but all agreed that, if she had pro-
perty in her own right, she ought to try to gt~t pos-
session of it; while she, feeling the necc~sity of having
money, was inclined to put her cause into court. Mr.
Lee was instructed to do his best endeavors in the
matter, and undertook to open a correspondence with
parties in Ireland.
Di'. Kingsley continued to call occasionally to
see how his patient was getting along. lie knew
that if she caine into possession of her estate, she
~vould be able to deal generously with her friends.
Im~dced, Marion's affimii's ~Iaily assunied greater impor-
tance in his eyes. IL therefore busied himself talk-
ing them over with every p'~~ lie met. Above all,
he found fault with Mr. Lee for tardiness in his opera-
tions. his imagination was so worked upon by the
prospect of a liberal fee, that lie had no patience left

IIi

OR, LIFE IN TWO WORLDS.

171

to wait for this windfall that was to be. Constantly
lie expressed to Marion the deep interest he took in
her affimirs, and the burden it was upon his mind.
Finding that her prudence had saved up a little
money against a time of need, he represented to her
the embarrassed condition of his affairs, and the
straits to which he was reduced in his family expemi-
ditures, until she was impelled to relieve him by
paying him what ought to have been a satisfactory
fee, did lie not consider her case money out at
intci'cst, the iiicoiue front which ~vas to continue for
an indefinite length of tinie, or as long as lie was
the same needy individual.
Much as Marion felt annoyed by these traits among
the people with whom she had taken refuge, she was
compelled to endure them with a good grace, as long
as fears of falling in with Ehia made almost any state
of things endurable.
In her weak and nervous state, being subject to
perpetual apprehension, and subject at the same time,
to all manner of julIe, or ill-natured gossip, told fear-
fully on her constitution. Fortunately for her men-
tal health, she had a philosophy about these things,
which, whether it was true or not, was comforting in
the absence of' all other consolation ; and that x~'as,
that P~'ovid~ncc imever hedges up the way so com-
pletely, but there is a chance of escape somnewhei'e for
the virtuous and deserving.
rThis ~)hilosophy was destined to be put to the test
very shortly. Certain indications began to appear
that her evil genius was upon her track again; arnied
this time with devilish subtlety to destroy, by


172

TIlE ROMANCE OF AN IRISH GIRL;

11

OR, LW~ IN TWO WORLDS.

I,

173

secret machinations, before claiming openly his vic-
tim.
Letters were written to men of depraved character
in I3ytown, purporting to come from Miss Cunning-
ham, and having the effect to set a crowd of wink-
ing, grinning and squinting scoun(lrels to watch her
windows and put themselves in her way whenever it
was 1)OSSiblC. The letters were handed about, and
scandal became public. Chambermaids and porters
treated her with contempt, and the landlord refused
to board her. In this state of affairs, Mr. Lee
having gone from home, his wife, either moved by
interest or colfll)aSsion, went to a Mr. Brown, another
attorney, and asked him to protect Miss Cunning-
ham until Mr. Lee's return. rfhis gentleman called
on Marion, and gave her assurances of protection
only in case she would place her business in his
hands. This of course she refused to do, as she had
already employed Mr. Lee, and thought the course
proposed by Mr. Brown contemptible. While affairs
were in this condition, one man took upon himself
the task of sifting the matter and finding from what
source those several letters really came. Marion was
at the same time imploring the church people to do
something to save her from the fate which stared her
in the face-that of being abandoned entirely to the
lawless passions and vulgar prej udices of an uncul-
tivated people. But not one of these "people of
God " dared risk their purity in this matter, and sanc-
timoniously held aloof from one poor, hunted and
helpless woman, as if she had had the power to
inoculate the whole church with evil. Expecting

11

the very worst, Marion had armed herself ibm' (lelelice,
when t~vo events happened of great interest to hei'.
First, the gentleman who had undertaken to investi-
gate the matter, succeeded in ~)roving that the letters
all emanated from one source-Mrs. Kingsley.
What her secret motive was, di(l not appear, nor was
the truth made known, as it ought to have been,
because it was thought Mrs. Kingsley was of more
consequence than Miss Cunningham; and it was not
believed that the doctor was a party to time infa-
mous action. Indeed, it was said that Mrs. Kingsley
~vent into hysterics whenever the doctor undertook
to defend Miss Cunningham, so certain was she that
the girl was a vile impostor.
The second event, which caine immediately upon
the heels of the first, was time appearance in Bytown
of a gentle man and two ladies, who, becoming
informed of the presence of such a person as Miss
Cunningham, expressed the greatest astonishment at
finding her at large. In a few days more, another
party caine on, who entered a criminal complaint
against her, and had her arrested. Marion was now
completely in the toils of her enemies. A form of
trial was gone through, and a true bill found against
her for having committed infanticide to hide her
shame from the people of Ireland!
She was then placed in a sheriff's hands to be taken
to Quebec, her ignorance of legal forms of defence
making her an easy prey to the cunning of her ac-
cusers. Arrived at Quebec, quite a numnher of per-
sons were, apparently, informed of her return-Lord
Charles Elia amongst the number. his lordship con.

I
I
Ii


I

TIlE ROMANCE OF AN IRISh GIRL;

descended to express his sympathy with her condition,
and expressed his regret that he had not been able to
offer her his protection. "It pained him deeply," he
said "to find her spiritual condition such-since as
his god-child he could not refrain from taking the
greatest interest in her. lie was happy to say he was
(~omln1ssIone(l by her mother to bring her home
if she could be found; and, although lie did not ex-
pect to find her accused of such a crime, he was
still very willing to become her guardian upon the
voyage."
Besides Lord Elia7s condescension, Marion received
advice from several of her former friends and em-
I)l~ers in Quebec "to repent of her sins, and cast her
burdens upon Christ; for, though she might be viler
than the vilest, lIe was able to save her." Marion,
rather irritated by this useless and hollow sympathy,
answered that, "for their sake, she was glad even
hypocrites might repent and be forgiven ;" for which
indiscretion of her tongue the officer who had her in
charge savagely boxed her ears. Poor Marion! she
felt that to die and go to her father, was the only
~vish of her heartbroken as it was by so many suf-
ferings. All the broken-heart stories she had ever
heard, failed to find a parallel in her case; for, not-.
withstanding its crushed condition, it seemed to grow
b
stronger the more it endured. The bitterest dreg in
her cup, was the thought that her own mother might
have instigated these cruelties. If so, she would
rather, much rather, go to prison with Woods, falsely
accused like himself, than to be returned to her fathmefs
house only to meet with oppression and ill-treat-

OR, LIFE IN TWo ~VORLI)5.

175

ment, where she was once aecustonie(l to his affection
and indulgeine. Resistance now, would not iiul)rove
her condition, and there seemed no way but to sub-
miiit quietly, in the hope that wlieii her lover's term of
iIHl)risoIinleIit expired lie could (10 soniething to re-
here her of her dithiculties. Three years still were
0 complete that term. lit required sonic
faith to l)eal' up against the l)l'oSPect of three years in
the hands of her enemies. She could only pi~iy to
God to so order her affairs, as to leave her at liberty,
and clear John fi-oni disgrace. N6 matter, she though it,
if her covetous foes succeeded in retaining her father's
estate she had learned to labor; and selt~dependence
was hers both by nature and by habit. She would
accel)t any flute in contentment, that left her at liberty,
and restored her to the only l)em'somu in whose love she
felt pcm'fect confidence. Thus subniittin g herself to
her inevitable destiny for the present, Marion con-
cealed her chagrin, and behaved with cold indif-
ference toward her captors, who still kept up the ruse
of an arrest; pretending, at the same time, to l)laee
her under the guardianship of Lord Elia, as the most
proper person to have charge of her. Marion recog-
nized in her case the same policy pursued by the
nation, and very well knew thiat~ if she wonld not
bend, she must break.
At length she was put on board a steamer bound
to the coast of Ireland. In this steamer were several
persons from the United States, travelling either upon
business or pleasure. But it was some days before
she became acquainted with their names or position,
she being confined to her state-room except when taken

S

174

I

1


THE ROMANCE OF AN IRISh GIRL;

on deck for her health. 11cr physical con(litioIi was
very critical indeed~ and fears were entertained that
she mightn't live to reach home. As Marion had no
servant, though she so much needed one, and it was
known she was a prisoner, one kind-hearted American
lady sent a black girl to take care of her. This Elia
would have objected to; but, seeing no very good
reason, and thinking Marion might not make a con-
fidant of a negro, lie permitted it. From sonic report
of the servant Mrs. hall was sufficiently interested to
wish to see the pl'isohmer herself, to which her keeper
objected. This circumstance, added to what she had
learned of the girl, am'oused Mrs. hall's suspicions that
all was not right, and she imparted her convictions to
l;ei' husband. Mr. IThil was rather a shrewd maii, and
a gentleman withal. After hearing his wife's story,
he advised her to be very cautious about expressing
such an opinion to others as she had to him ; as, in
case she was right, any unwise interference might do
more injury than good. Accordingly, Mrs. Hall with-
drew her attentions, other than she thought necessary
to the invalid's comfort, and these she never failed to
extend only through lici' servant. Meanwhile, Mr.
hall cultivated the acquaintance of Elia, and arrived
at his own conclusions.
One day the negress asked Marion if she would not
like to be furnished with writing materials. This hint
was sufficient for Marion, who eagerly accepted the
offer: and wrote little by little, as she was able, tIme
most important features of her case; the negress hint-
ing to her that her master had some plan on foot for
her benefit. Thus encouraged, Marion accomplished

L

176

I

I

OR, LIFE IN TWO WORLDS.        171
her task, and secretly sent the paper she had prepared
to 'Mr. hall.
Mr. IJall immediately made a confidant of' a fellow
American, whose genius for fun was only equalled by
his genius for knowing character at a o'laiice. This
latter gentlenian, B. F. Allen by iiame, 1)ossesse(l Sev-
eral other traits and accomplishments which promised
to be eminently serviceable in the present instance.
Odd-looking, and eccentric in his manners, any
-   unusual demonstration seemed only his natural charac-
teristic displaying itself in some new form. Already
his waggery had made him a great favorite with most
of' the passengerss ; and when it ~vas coolly announced
one day that Mr. Allen had a little box, or rather two
little boxes, by looking in which alternately, any
desired object could be seen, the new recreation met
with great applause on board ship. Several volun-
teered to be time first to look for familiar objects in the
magical boxes ; and, at length Elia, upon whose curi-
osity Mr. hall had been silly operating, proposed to
have his father's resi(lenee shown to him, though he
confessed that he had no great love for magic, and
warned the operator not to shock his nerves with the
exhibition of anything supernatural oi' extraordinary.
-'      Allen promised, at the same time assuring his lord-
~liip that a pem'fect compliance with his instructions
would be i'equim'ed. The two then retired together,
as spectators were not 1)ermnitted.
~Tlie better to understand the sagacity of the young
American, it is proper to state hei'e that the ship in
which they were, was British, and that the object of
Mr. Allen's practice of magic was to gain over the
8*


1783

I)

captain to Marion's cause, which could not easily
have b'~en done in any ordinary way, or by means of
argument, as the interference of Americans in a
cause purely Briti8h would have been deemed
uncalled for.)
Ilavnvr seeded themselves in private, Allen pro-
ceeded to rub up the glasses in the magical boxes,
and instruct Elia how to proceed. The party out-
side, who were anxious to see the sport, after waiting
about an hour, became uneasy, and begged the cap-
tain to go and see how the sight-seeing progressed.
The captain complied. On entering the room, he dis-
covered Lord Elia with his head bent on his hands,
weeping profusely. In answer to his look of sur-
prise, Allen charged his subject not to forget what he
had seen, and assured him lie was now absolved from
the spell. The captain then inquired into the cause
of his agitation and found that Ehia had not only
seen his father's residence in every particular cor-
rectly, but had witnessed a very affecting scene where
his mother was lying at the point of death, and had
even heard the prayer she breathed for him. It was
this that had plunged him in grief-a grief he could
not altogether dispel when the enchantment had
been removed; for, bad as Elia was, he had an Irish-
man's love for his family, and there were few more
lovable women in Ireland than Lady Elia.
Among the other passengers was the noted Ge-
neral Lambert, who had become quite intimate with
Elia and his party. The general was very much-
amused at the report given of E1ia~s experience, and
expressed his want of' faith in such impressions. Still

OR, LIFE IN TWO WORLDS.

179

the account excited his curiosity, and after some
ur~ino' on the nart of Elia he presented himself as a
candidate for admission into the charnied influence of
the boxes. Allen directed him how long to look
steadily that he must give his whole mind up to it, it'
he wished to ret a clear view. Ilavino' 'iscert'uned
that the general wished to be shown about London,
Allen first caused to appear the Queen's procession,
leaving l3uckinghanm Palace. here were chaniber-
Thins, tin mnpeters, 1)01 icem en, yeomen gmi ards an(l
lords-in-waiting; some in black, and some in re(l
some (histingilished by their stockings and others by
their breeches. Some wear epaulets, an(l some
5w0r(ls ; and some have crimson tunics and round
velvet hats. They rush this way an(l that, and now
a troop of liorseo'uards enter, full armed ~vitJi shin-
inn' coats 'nid o'lit tlcriwr swords. Tlirono-h this mass
lie saw distinctly 11cr Majesty and Prince Albert,
with all the host that follow in the train.
After this lie saw Ilyde Park, that Paradise of
Englishmen, with its massive arches and imposing
statuary, and gardens with trees extending out of
sight. Then came London tower, the Gallery of the
Royal Academy, XTem.non Gallery and the Royal
mint. Next St. Thomas' Tower, the Traitor's Gate,
and the Bloody Tower where the children of
Edward ~T* were inur4red. lie saw a regiment on
drill, to the west of this last tower, and going on to the
left, saw the council diamber, where those engaged
in the Gunpowder Plot were examined. From there
he passed to Devereux Tower, where Queen Eliza-
beth shook the dying countess, for her treachery,

TilE ROMANCE OF AN IRISH GIRL;


180

ThE ROMANCE OF AN IRISH GIRL;

screaming-" God may forgive you but I never can."
Tie also got glimpses of Wellington and Nelson in
the streets. Altogether, lie had a most ~xtraordb
nary visit to London, which he was adjured not to
forget.
The general's account of what he saw in the boxes
excited great interest in the company, particularly as
it was noticed lie rather kept in Allen's society after
this occasion, and took frequent opportunities of
looking in the magic glass. This had the desired
effect. The captain became curious i~nd wanted
to see something in this way. Greenwich Park was
shown to him by request. lIe was transported to a
spot where lie could look up and down the Thames,
and cast his eye over the most wonderful collection
of shipping in the world. After satisfying the cap-
tain's curiosity about familiar places, lie looked him
steadily in the eye for several minutes, to make him
recollect it, as lie explained. General Lambert then
called for Waterloo. To this Allen objected, unless
the general would look for it in his eye, instead of in
the box, and to this the general agreed. It was
rather an awkward position for the resolute 01(1 gen-
eral, whose eye had never quailed before man or
beast; but it was not long before the lids drooped
over those blazing orbs, whose fire had so often dri-
ven terror to the faltering soldier's heart; and hi~
mighty will and superior judgment were in the con-
trol of another. He was a willing captive, too, as he
saw drawn up in battle array, the million and a half
of men whose presence signalized the occasion when
that mighty spirit which had shaken the thrones of

I

Europe to their foundations, was himself overcome,
and England achieved imlnortal glory. But strange
to say, lie found himself sympathizing far niore with
Napoleon than ever lie had before, and the exultation
of England appeared uncalled for.
After this very satisfactory exhibition of his magi-
cal po~~~ei', Allen excused himself for that day, pi'o-
Inisiug further exhibitions at some future tiiiie ; and
General Lambert returned to the society of the ladies
of Elia's party with whom lie had previously been
conversing. As he approached this group lie fixed
his eyes on Lady Burton, a daughter of Bishop l're-
donia's, who had found occasion to follow Elia to
Canada, and was astonished to pei'Ceive a iiauie writ-
ten in her forehead, of peculiar significance. Lu-
pelled by the strongest wonder, lie approached still
nearer, an(h in('re~1~ I his scrutiny, in ~o marked a
inaniier as to attuaci the attention of her husband,
who rather angrily inquired the reason of his impei'-
tinent observation. The general, feeling coIiil)elled
to explain, told Sir Jaities Burton what lie had been
surprised to remark concerning his lady. his lord-
ship was offended-angry words followed, and the
general was challenged.
The captain being infornied of the quarrel, reached
the spot too late to adjust the difficulty. While lie
stood looking at Lady Burton, lie was confounded at
making the same discovery which Gen. Lambert load
made, of a name on her ladyship's forehead. Turn-
ing a wondering look on Ehia, lie saw the head of a
serpent where Elia's belonged, and heard a hissing
noise issue from his mouth. horror-struck, the cap-

181

OR, LIFE iN TWO WORLDS.


182

THE ROMANCE OF AN IRISH GIRL*

tam started back with an exclamation, which, being
interl)rctc(l as an insult, a scene of contusion immedi-
ately l)egan. The l)arties demanded satisfaction
and called 111)011 the ofl~mmders to fight. The captain,
however, utterly refused, after lirst trying to explain
what it was inI1)ossible he should explain. In answer
to their furious demands, lie replied that he was
master of time ship and all on board, and would have
no fighting." As for Elimi, he was very quiet, and (lid
iiot insist upon the fighting so much as Sir James,
who made a great ellort to produce a mutiny among
the passengerss , but without niu~h effect. Both the
general and captain were too much respected to
meet with that sort of treatment ; and the captain at
last, finding tile spirit of discord too strong for good
order, had the turbulent spirits arrested and put in
confinement during' tile remainder of the ~
Toyage.
While all this was going on, Allen was kept in his
I'OOlIl by a feigned indisposition, and avoided being
called upon, either to explain the cause of tile trouble,
or to take any l)al't in the a(lJnstnlent of it. After
quiet was restored, the general and captain, the un-
preuleditating 'mo'itators of the trouble, kept much
'0
too'ethem' talkino' over these singular incidents, and
0            0
other remarkable experiences of their lifetime. These
conversations were often prolonged until far into the
night. One night, shortly after the affair just
mentioned, two o'eiitl emen were conversing on (leek,
0
watching. the heavens above and the waters beneath;
o'rowiIlo' oblivious of time, when, about midnio'hm t
b      0                                      0
they observed to the westward a small but very black
cloud. Lingering to see what it portended, they

OR, LIFE IN TWO WORLDS.        183
observed the cloud descending upon the water, and
approaching the vessel.
"What now ?" c~jaculated the captain, who was
constitutionally rather a nervous man, and whose
superstitious tell(leneies had bceii aroused by tl)e late
singular events on l)oard ship.
"It looks to inc like a boat, with one black and
one wiute sail, and having three persons on board
answered Laml)ert.
"A queer craft to be coming down on us at this
time and place," remarked the captain, uneasily.
On and on came the mysterious boat, faster than
wind or oar could possil)le have impelled it, and, un-
heeding the motion of the ship, run straight under the
side. In a moment more her crew were on the deck,
beside tIme startled watchers.
"Who are you ?" demanded the captain in a voice
hoarse with fear.
" Avengers of the innocent !'.' thundered the fore-
umost of the ghostly three. " On board your ship you
carry as a prisoner, Marion Wallace Cunnincrhan
b
seized by her enemies and borne to sorm'ow and (uS-
truction. Release her from her captivity, restore her
the price of her passage, and give her your protection
on pain of shipwreck in case of refusal or neglect !"
" Stay, tell us who you are," cried Lambert, sum-
moning up all his courage for the effort.
" Wallace, Bruce and Douglas, her father's coun-
trymnen, and champidus of liberty !" was the solemn-
toned answer proceeding from the second ghost, who
the general now perceived, bore a strong resemblance
to the Bruce l)ortraits.


184      THE ROMANCE OF AN IRISH CIRL~
"Do you promise ?" asked the stern-v isaged Doug~
las of the captain.
"I do," answered the captain, quaking in every
limb.
"At this answer, the three plumed chieftains again
vanished over the ship's side, and, as their boat danced
out upon the waves, the mingled chorus of their voices
reached the ears of those on deck, chanting "Liberty
and l)rotection to the innocent, or shipwreck and
death to the guilty."
The next morning Marion was taken to breakfast
in the cabin and treated with all kindness and respect,
though, as yet, she was uninformed of the agency
which had been used to procure her freedom. Indeed,
the real agent iii the matter was so ill from over-
exertion that he could not appear at the table for a
day or two: and the captain gave him every atten-
tion in his power, little suspecting that he had been
victi inized by this powerful numb as lie had
been.
Marion's American friends treated her with a quiet
kindness which she could not help feeling, and,
although they said little to her, she was quite sure
she o~ved her liberty to tl~em. The black girl could
tell her nothing to enlighten her much. At length
she made bold to ask Mrs. Hall to relate to her the
particulars of what had occurred. This, Mrs. hall
consented to, upon a promise of secrecy, and great
was Marion's astonishment as well as delight at the
recital. She thanked her friends warmly, regretting
that she could then make no other acknowledgment.
As for the captain, or any of the other parties, the

I

r

OR, LIFE IN Two WORLDS.        1S5

secret was not suspected, and doubtless it is told to
this (lay as a most remarkable event, or traim of
events, which happened on such a voyage in the year
of our Lord 184-.
The malice and contefll1)t of Lady il3urtou's manner
on finding Marion reStore(l to liberty had little efi~et
to disturb I icr composure in her present ci ren mu stami ces.
It could not be surprising if she took a little pleasure
in seeing her former position exchanged with Lord
Charles Elia. According to her own request, she was
landed at Cork, much improved in health and spirits,
even though her danger was still very great. But,
such is the confidence inspired by friends, that mis-
fortunes, present or prospective, lose half their terrors
when confided to those who take an interest in our
hIal)pineEs.


T~E rOMANCE OF AN Ii~S1[ C;IRL;

187

CIJAPTEIR XYL

MARION had resolved, now that she was in Ireland,
she woul(l niake an attempt to see or communicate
wit Ii John Woods before returning to Ai~~ei'ica, as she
exl)ected to do. Mr. B. F. Allen, whose love of'
adventure may be ~uessed from the history of the
voyage, thought it best, although the Ehia party were
not to be released from confinement before reaching
Liverpool, to keep in Miss Cunnino~ha nm's company
while she remained in Ireland, a country he very
much wished to see. By so doing, lie might be of
service to her and find some amusement for himself,
in acting the pait of her esquire; an arrangement
which Marion had reason to be grateful for. Before
leaving the ship, Marion had received from time cap-
tain, beside her ~ mon ey, a present from Gen.
J4ambert and her American friends, of funds sufficient
to defray her probable expenses. Thus furnished,
she stepped upon Irish soil once more, with a greater
feeling of pleasure than she anticipated when she set
sail from Quebec.
Mr. Allen was delighted with the beautiful harbor
of Cork, aimd somewhat surprised af the elegance and
seeming prosperity of the city. ITo had not yet
learned how to reconcile the splendor of some classes,
with the squalid poverty of others; and, as lie looked
upon time solid-looking squares of magnificent build-
ings, so firm and so substantial in their beauty, lie

'I

cOUl(i not litli) asking' if this was the country that
sent such starved and destitute hordes to the shores of
the United States, year after year.
Their arrival happening upon Saturd :iy ni gut, the
noise of business had pretty much subsided. The
forcethe          Allen iioticed hid in his
first tluiig
l)t)liCe
eyes, a singularly warlike appearance P)r a tune of
peace. Their un iforin was dark greeu, of a military
cut-a regimental Cal)- broad black belt c~irtouch
box, short musket and bayonet. rfhe chiefs wore
swords and their companies seemed very numerous.
As might be hoped, under so heavy a guard, the city
was very quiet (lurino' the nio'ht.
iBut Sunday morning-gracious heavens, what a
sio'ht! The Israelites passilig out of Egypt Were
nothing to this crowd of Peol)le, barefooted and bare-
headed, and almost bare-backed-men, women and
children-yet all seemingly in good spirits-busily
engaged in praying, swearing and hunting~ well,
no matter what.
Allen's credulity was taxed to its utmost, to bc-
lieve in what lie saw, and iMlarioii's amusement at
his horror of vermin-hunting, was, to him, entirely
inconsistent with womanly delicacy.
Marion had been a witness to a little scene between
Allen and a maid about the house, which had first
excited her mirthfulness, and caused her to be so
much aihused by him. Allen was standing by a
window, watching a crowd of these people, without
comprehending their business, when, turning to this
girl, lie asked, "Why do these people make that jerk-
ing motion ?" "Troth, it's only catching a creeper,"

OR, IJF~ IN TWO WORLi)S.


188      TIlE ROMANCE OF AN IRISH GIRL;                                         0ii~ LIFE IN TWO WORLi)S.      189

answered Biddy, tossing her head with an air. "Och,
good luck to you," continued Biddy, "there's one
on your coat; and he doesn't act like a stranger,
either I"
" Oh, for God's sake, take it off!" cried Allen,
fairly dancing with horror. Tile girl laughingly corn-
1)lied, an(l Allen, seized with a sudden frar about his
bed, ~vent to examine it. To all appearance, it was
clean; but, upon investigation of a closer sort, quite
a coin pany of vermin were discoVered to have
retired to spend the Sabbath in quiet, preparatory to
making an assault on him the following night. Allen
judged by the general quiet upon the subject, tlmat it
annoyed nobody else as it did him, and heroically
resolved to make tIme best of it while he remained.
how long a time this would be, he had not settled
in his own mind, as he expected first to hear from
some friends, who were to JOiD in an excursion over
the island. lie half yielded to the temptation to
warn them against the projected tour, when it oc~
cured to him that Cork had always borne rather a bad
name, even in Ireland, and this might be the worst
of his experience. When appealing to Mariomi for
advice, he received but little satisfaction. She told
him that the south of Ireland was more settled with
English, than the north; and the English claimed
superiority over the Irish, who were supposed to be
benefited by their residence among them. "God
pity the recipients of such whole-souled benevo-
lence !" exehaimed Allen; "if what we see here is
the product of it."
Wishing to escape from his hotel and its associa-

tion of ideas, Allen proposed to Marion to walk about
the city, and see its sights. They had Dot gone far
when they met the people returning from mass ; who,
as soon as they caine upon the street, rushed for the
liquor Shops, either to driilk or pi'ocure a SUPI)ly ot the
good Creature." Every tourth person they met,
carried a bottle or juo; and the language they heard
corresl)onded with the other appearances. It was as
if a thousand houses of correction had turned their
inmates into the streets. \l~Tomen and ~irls exceeded
b
the men in vulgarity and obscenity.
so~lts cm
how can such shocking L         d sounds be
tolerated, in a city like this ?" Allen asked, in amaze-
merit. lIe was surl)rised that ladies couki walk the
streets, and be forced to witness the shameless eXl)o-
sures of person, and listen to the laI)guage l)andied
about amongst these crowds. lie blushed to think he
had brought Marion out to be so annoyed. But
Marion had seen these things many times before
and, thouo'lm in contrast to the o'reater reserve in Ca-
nada, she felt the impropriety more sensibly than ever
before, it was not an mifamihiar scene, and she con-
fessed to Allen that it was a Common view in Ireland.
Fortunately for Allen's modesty, they found them-
selves in the vicinity of an old churchyard, ill which
they saw l)eISOns walking. Entering here, they were
under the shadow of an 01(1 church, ~vhose walls, half
fallen do~vn, were covered with ivy. The l)lace had
a grand and solemn air which suite(L well with the
tone of feeling ot both tIme l~i'omenaders at this parti-
cuhtr time ; amid they wandered about, looking at
tablets over tombs and othici' objects of interest, for

188

189


190      TIlE ROMANCE OF AN nusu GIRL;                                          OR, LIFI~ IN TWO WORLDS.      191

an hour. Their appearance had already caused them
to be recognized as strangers, ~vheu a gentleman, in-
troducing himself as Mr. Winslowe, ventured to
make some inquiries, and was informed that Mr.
Allen was a citizen of the United States, travelling
for the first time in Ireland-a confession which
caused an immediate and cordial invitation to dinner
for himself and lady. Allen was then obliged to in-
troduce Miss Wallace-as it was previously arranged
she should be called-while, to avoid curiosity, lie
represented her as a step-sister. The party then went
homime to the kindly proffered dinner. Most travellers
would have treated the invitatioii as a mere compli-
ment, but Allen remembered the condition of his
hotel, aimd resolved not to neglect the opportunity of
eating in a private house. Besides, lie was sight-see-
ing, and the inside of a citizen's residence was a part
of what lie wanted to become acquainted with.
The dinner-table in Mr. Winslowe's house rather
astonished the young republican. had the occasion
been one of sonic fashionable club supper, there could
not have been a greater profusion or variety of
liquors; and Allen was imielined to think lie had
fallen among riotous livers. No sooner were they
seated at table than the host filled a bumper and
drank "Good feeling toward their several nations,"
then passed the liquor to his guests. Allen took cold
water, responding however in very good taste. his
refusal to drink liquors caused, at first, a little fiut-
terin~ and wonder about the table, but lie was
allowed to have his way. It was not the fashion
among the Protestants to refuse liquor, asnone but

I

Father Matthews' converts ever ~thought of doing so,
and FatI icr M'itthie~vs was exceeding1 y liill)ol)lilar ex-
cept ~vith the Catholics. his enemies would rather
be thought drunkards than known to have any fel-
lowship with him.
Temperance and i'd igion were shi gliti v discussed,
awl Mr. XXTinslowe inquired of Allen if lie was a
Christiiin ; to which Allen replied that lie was not.
Marion, who understood nutch better than lie did
what was meant by the (1UeStiOii, avoided making any
remarks, and allowed it to pass, as it was thought to
be meant.
Mr. Winslowe was not neglectful of' religious cere-
mnony, uttering a " praiSe God for his kindness !" at
every breath, and growing niore devotional the more
wine he drank, as did all the company. Allemi could
hardly refrain from thanking God audibly that his
country was saved from such a mother as this. She
had been weaned none too early for her own welfare.
During the last few hours lie had witnessed scenes
not only insulting to God but disgusting to hiunmanity.
Several hours were spent at table, and when they
arose, Allen felt relieved that his l)lain, republican
training had spared him the necessity for formuino'
b
such habits as those practiced in Mr. Winslowe 's
really elegant house. If it was by such alniost beastly
indulgences that the English attained their boasted
elevation of manuel's and sentiments, lie prayed
always to remain in his pm'eseiit "low and unrefined
condition.
After dinner, the conversation turne(l upon the
system of domestic servitude in Enoland as being

I

a


192      THE ROMANCE OF AN iRISH GIRL;                                             OR, LIFE IN TWO WORLDS.       193

superior to that of the United States, and preferable
to slavery as being above it in principle.
"You will observe," said Mr. Winslowe, "the per-
fect regularity of oar household arrangements, and it
arises from the fact that our servants are born to their
proper positions. There is no confusion-no mis-
understanding about it, nor ignorance of what is
needed. Yet we have no law making any particular
class servants; they arc made so hy the common
sentiment of society. It is the only way, either, by
which a nobility can be kept in existence. Let this
class of persons aspire to something above service,
and our nobles would have to wait upon themselves
very often, after the manner of you Americans.
Neither is a nation ever really great without a
nobility. You cousins of ours over the water will
find that out some day."
"We latve a nobility of our own," answered Allen,
with inconsiderate pride. When Mr. Winslowe
wished him to explain, he was silent from embarrass-
ment. Had lie been in a company of Americal~s, lie
would gladly have expressed his nicaning; but, hav-
ing to represent his country alone, and feeling that
he was but a young and inexperienced representa-
tive, he wished lie could have withdraxvn his remark.
Mr. Winslowe continued:
"The English made your great men-Franklin,
and Washington, and the rest."
"That I suspect is true," answered Allen, some-
what aroused by this assertion. "You gave them a
fine opportunity of proving what they could do, as
well as suffer. Many American ladies, too, who

WolII(l have tainted at sight of a surgical operation,
you have niade bravo enough to handle the musket."
Finding that the others were warm with wine,
Allen thought it prudent to (lechine any discussion on
the relative nierits of the mother country and her
thriving' descendants~ ~         ~        lio4
lie bade his A1'J~p1LaIJd.
good evening, and returned to his hotel.
An unexpectedly quiet sleep (aftcr removing the
blankets of his bed) allowed Allen to arise much l'e-
freshed the next morning. Inquiring of Marion how
she had passe(l the night, lie wasgratihed to find she
had been equally fortimate in avoiding a sleepless
and restless night. The novelty of Irish manners
began to lose their interest, however, and he was just
wishing himself in his home among the White Moun-
tains, wlieii he was surprised by a call from Mm; Win-
slowe, accompanied by several other gentlemen.
Taking Allen for a fair exponent of American feel-
inn' these visitors wished to discuss some matters
which, being referred to in the last iiight's Conversa-
tion, they had not thoroughly understood. Among
other things, Mr. Winslowe remembered Mr. Allen
had said " that there were other men and women in
their nation whom the Americans held in as great
esteem as they ~did Washington aiid Franklin-time
only heroes Englishnien seemed to recognize. Who,
then, were those persons so (histiliguJshie(l ~"
Allen was considerably nettled by this persistent
stupidity, but resolved to meet it as heroically as
possible, and answered accordingly: "We call
Georo'e W'ishin o'ton the Fat1~er of his country aIl(l
0
reverence him as such ; because, being a great awl
9

I

102

193


194      THE ROMANCE OF AN WISH GIRL;                                           OR, LIFE IN TWO WORLDS.       195

good man, and the man for the circumstances in
which he found himself, he proved himself a fathc~'.
But a father is not necessarily a greater man than a
son or a brother-only relatively with regard to posi-
tion, and there are many sons and brothers, and even
daughters, who we feel are worthy of their noble
sire."
"I do not see," said Lord Potter, "what your
daughters can have to do with your greatness."
"Oh ,yes, Potter!" remarked Lord Blackman,
"don't you remember how our men and generals com-
plained of their influence in the war of the Revolution?
They often remarked they could soon have subdued
the rebellion, had it been possible to separate the
men from th'e women and children. A shout of
encouragement from these would inspire a conquered
rebel to renew his resistance, and often made them fight
like tigers when they were ready to faint with fatigue.
Women even frequently took life, when they could
do so by any means in their hands. General Clinton
once heard of an old woman, who kept boiling water
constantly in readiness, to scald every redcoat who
intruded on her premises. One day, his soldiers,
being in great suffering from thirst, a party contrived
to surprise the woman and keep her prisoner while
they procured water. But, a little girl ten years of
age, who brought the water for the soldiers to drink,
adroitly emptied into it a quantity of poison which
had been purchased to kill vermin, and in a short
time those who had drunk, were writhing in death '
agonies. That was taking an active part in the war,
if not a very honorable one. The trick of poisoning

water one way and another was very common.
Sometimes the dead body of one of our men was
boxed up and thrown into a well, there to decom-
pose, and give the most horrible diseases to the
unlucky wretches who drank the water. Do your
people remember these thin 0's Mr.
~ , Allen ?"
"If they were sometimes tempted to take such
revenge for the horrible outrages committed on
them," answered Allen, "they have never boasted
of it, and it has not beemi recorded in history that I
know of. It is more natural, perhaps, that the enemy
should remember such occurrences than that we
should."
The young American was getting tired of the
topic, and fearful of a controversy, when a hasty
trampling of feet, and a confused noise of cries, oaths
and arms, arrested the conversation. In answer to
Allen's hasty inquiry, Mr. Winslowe replied-" Oh,
it is nothing, only a little fighting." Allen could
not help saying it looked to him quite a big fight.
"It would not be singular, if there were twice as
many engaged in it," was the careless reply of Lord
B~ackman. "The United States cannot be very well
peopled with Irish, if such scenes are new to you,
Mr. Allen."
"How do you account for such a state of things
here, if I may ask, your lordship ?"
"Well, they are a class who live upon estates, and
Sunday are their holidays. When they come into
the city to drink themselves happy, they sometimes
overdo the matter and get into a general fight, which
is almost as much of an enjoyment to. theni as the


1!~6     'filE ROMANCE OF AN hUSh GIRL;                                          OR, LIFE IN TWO WORLDS.        197

-1

drinking-that being the only means they have of
proving either their valor or their enthusiasm. It is
a sort of national pastime, in which numbers oniy
add to the enjoyment."
Allen thought, as lie watched the half-naked crea-
tures, with black eyes, broken arms and bruised flesh,
mixed up in a general mn~l6e with the police who
spared them not, but struck right and left with the
butts of their muskets, that it was a strange pastime,
and one he should not greatly enjoy, though lie was
not a coward.
Neither could he get over his astonishment at the
freedom with which both sexes exposed their naked
persons in the public streets, and lie ventured a
remark to that effect, to which Lord Potter replied
"that persons of refinement, looked upon this class
pretty much as they did upon cattle, and noticed
their nakedness as little."
Allen could not help the reflection that England
had the advantage of comparative immunity from
exposure on the subject; since, to represent things
as they really are, in some parts of Great Britian,
would require a use of language revolting to ears
polite, and which would hardly find a publisher.
Much talk about national peculiarities was had
during the visit, and after an hour or more of this
style of conversation, the gentlemen withdrew; all
except Lord Potter, who was an Irish Catholic, and
had listened rather uneasily to a portion of the re-
marks made by the Protestant gentlemen. When lie
was alone with Allen, he drew his chair beside him,
remarking with considerable feeling:

"You, sir, as I heard you say, are not a (ikri8tian.
yon~ are then better able to understand our condition,
and the great causes of Irish degradation; and all I
have to ask of you is, that you will not allow our~ap-
parent want of the dignity of humanity to impress
you too deeply. I am not a Catholic so much because
I find the church of Rome infallible, as because I
cannot fellowship the Protestants in the practices they
pursue toward our people. As to the real merits of
either church, or their ability to take their commu-
nicants to heaven, there appears to be but little room
for choice, since either is a political institution in
Great Britain, and as much corrupted by being so as
any might suppose."
All this was in a manner unintelligible to Allen,
who had never had an opportunity, either to observe
or to be informed upon these topics in a very inti~
mate sense. He therefore only listened with polite
attention, until his lordship had gone through with
his subject. Then, feeling some curiosity to learn
how much resemblance Marion's history bore to that
of others, ,governed by the same social laws, lie intro-
duced the subject by inquiring if Lord Potter had
known Lord Cunningham when he was alive; to
which question his lordship answered,
"Yes."
"And his family?"
Allen then proceeded to relate what had happened
to Lord Cunningham's daughter, without mentioning
where he learned the story.
"It is nothing unusual," said Lord Potter, "for


198      THE ROMANCE OF AN IRISh GIRL

these cases to occur; and it is truly startling to know
the means resoi'ted to, to enforce or prevent marriages
in Ireland. Sometimes a father has Iti red tla3 c14ar-
acter of a daughter impeached, when, by so doing, he
could prevent a respectable poor man from taking her
for a wife. As for other expedients, their name is
legion. Winslowe himself, had a daughter nearly
ruined by following the 'course of true love,' which
proved no smoother for her thaxi others. Her father
was well enough pleased with an advertisement which
he met in a town paper, of a gentleman 'thirty-six
years of age, of good blood and connections, and with
an income of three hundred pounds, who wanted a
wife with a comfortable fortune '-to answer it, and
propose this daughter for the match. As soon as the
young lady heard of it, she went to a friend and
beo'o'ed to be taken away. Arrangements were made
for the lovers (for she was betrothed to a young
merchant in Cork) to meet at Gretna Green, and the
very day the marriage settlements were to have been
made, she was missing from home, and returned to
Cork as the wife of the merchant. Winslowe made a
desperate effort to separate them. Love-letters, in-
tended to inflame the husband's jealousy, were sent by
the post and dropped on the premises; a man paid to
lurk about as if by appointment, and all that sort of
thing; until the wife, made desperate, watched her
opportunity and shot at the hireling who was seeking
her ruin. The shot inflicted a fatal injury, and the
lady was tried for manslaughter, but discharged.
'The law of the fan~iIy'is here the most absolute of
all laws. If a child cannot be bent to a parent's pur-

I'

OR, LIFE IN TWO WORLDS.       199

pose, it is considered the best policy to break the dis-
obedient one, even at the expense of life, which is
not uncoinnion."
Allen listened to this strange account with interest,
but unable really to comprehend or believe it-so
much are our opinions formed by custom. lie also
took the 9pportunity to tell Lord Potter that there
was a man imprisoned in Dublin, he supposed on just
such an offence-that of wishing to marry a lady of
superior rank; and that for the lady's sake, he would
consider it a great privilege to be allowed to speak
with him; and asked, if the attempt would be likely
to be practicable. Lord Potter replied that as he
was not in very high favor with the Protestants, they
might refuse such a request from him; but, if it was
wished, he would go to Dublin with his young friend
cheerfully, and see what could be effected. This
generous offer was, of course, accepted, and the mo-
muent for setting out was arranged between them at
once.


200

THE ROMANCE OF AN IRISH GIRL:;

CIIAPTER XVII.

MARION had been a much more appreciative listener
to these conversations with the gentlemen of Corki
than Allen had been, inasmuch as she understood the
public and private sentiments of the people better
than he. Some little hesitation was felt about her
going to Dublin, as to whether going or remaining
was the safest. To cover this hesitation, Allen
affected to have some scruples about allowing her to
come in contact with the half-dressed savages she
must see on such a journey. Lord Potter assured
him that his sister would be as safe from insult or ill-
treatment asif these poor wretches were fine g'entle-
men-gallantry being an Irish quality. A glance
from Marion decided Allen to take her along, as her
name and the impression that she was an Anierican
would probably save her from suspicion, even should
Elia be able to get again upon her track. It was
not known to him that she was in the American's
company. That was a secret from all but her few
American friends.
Everything being arranged satisfactorily, the
travelling party set out in good spirits. Marion was
buoyed up by hopes of meeting with her long-lost
lover, and Allen had amusement enough in the
society of his Irish friend, who proved to have been
a fortunate acquaintance. -
At Waterford they stopped at a nobleman's seat,

I

I

OR, LIFE IN TWO WORLDs.

201

'*

where Lord Potter introduced his friends from the
United States, and procured them a warm reception.
As this was the first opportunity that had been
afforded Allen of viewing one of these places, except
from the road, the visit gave hinm a great deal of
pleasure. The spacious lawns and rising grounds
afforded beautiful views of the sea-shore and the
fishermen, while the delicious verdure which every-
where met his eye announced the origin of the name,
"Emerald Isle." After the grounds, the buildings
were shown to Allen, who declared very emiphatic-
ally, in American phrase, it was a "tremendous
house."~
Whatever else Ireland may lack, it does not want
for a disposition to make easy sport of every trifling
occasion ; and Allen found real enjoyment among all
his chance acquaintances. The journey next day was
delightful, and he felt no wish to hasten over a road
where there were so many charming places, glebe
houses, family mansions, and plantations. Iter-
spersed with these more stately residences were little
huts, which the American was rash enough to con-
clude were smoke-houses, very much to tme amuse-
mnent of Marion, though she dared not correct his
mistake. Lord Potter, however, explained that they
were actually houses for the poor, and Allen's
quickened vision began to see little children creeping
about their doors, occasionally with a. pig as a play-
mate. As an offset to the beauty of the fields and haw-
thorn hedges, they beheld crowds of miserable ca-
tures working in these fields, the sight of whom made
the heart turn sick. These were almost naked and


OR, LIFE IN TWO WORLDS.        203

202      TIlE ROMANCE OF AN IRISH GIRL;

hungry-looking men, and suffering and dispirited
women, cursing the children that cannot still the
cries of the younger infants. Women, too, with
children fastened on their backs, keeping up with the
men in their work. Should a mother sit down a few
moments to nurse her child, she would immediately
engage in picking off vermin, with as much energy
and as little shame as she might have blown off a
trifle of dust. Marion could not affect as much sur-
prise and disgust as Allen exhibited, because it
brought to her mind pictures of want and degrada-
tion which she had first seen on her father's estate,
and the memory of which had never ceased to haunt
her. How many plans had she made for bettering
their condition, while she herself was in want of the
means of ordinary comfortable living. Would the
day never come when she could experiment upon
this seemingly hopeless material? She did not know.
Could she only take the first step toward such an
undertaking, in the finding of her imprisoned lover,
she might begin to hope the better day had dawned.
But her American companion gave frequent utter-
ance to his surprise in such exclamations as "Am I
in Ireland or Barbary ?"-" Are these freemen or
slaves ?"
"Do they look like slaves ?" innocently asked
Lord Potter.
"I do not know, indeed," answered Allen; "be-
cause, although we are a slave-holding nation, there
are none in our northern States. I only speak of my
impression of what a slave must be: a creature with-
out pride or shame-the lowest type of humanity."

"Yet such are not my poor countrymen," said
Lord Potter, sadly; "they are forced into their de-
graded and repulsive condition, and have enough
sensibility left to feel keenly the slights put upon
them by strangers as weil as by the English. They
Would always wish, poor as they are, to share what-
ever they have With any chance friend, and are hurt
at being refused. You called them slaves. So they
are, to all intents and purposes, but could not be
made so by any other than the process used by the
English government. Were they suffered to possess
their manhood in its native purity, such sights as
these Would not now meet your eyes."
"Pray tell me," said Allen, "the causes of their
extreme poverty."
"The causes are various, being the many pGints of
a regular system of robbery and oppression, practiced
for such a length of time that the people have been
formed upon it. I make no doubt were the oppres-
sion suddenly removed, the people would still stand
in their own light for some years, owhug to the mere
force of habit. But, among the most prominent un
positions put upon the Irish are the taxes of every
description which go to support mass-houses, Pro-
testant cathedrals, glebe-houses, and all the parapher-
nalia of the two religions. After paying his rents
and cuts and supporting his own priest, an Irisimman
must p~iy one-tenth of all he raises for the support of
the E8tabli8lted Liturek. Were he victimized but by
one denomination it would be more tolerable, but he
is the slave of both at once. Whether he be Pro-
testant or Catholic, he must take part for his faith


w

204

TnlE ROMANCE OF AN IRIsH GIRL ;

against the other, oftelb doing things inconsistent with
humanity or religion to prove his discipleship. The
iRomans are obliged to commit acts at the bidding of
their priests which would make the devil blush ;
while the Protestants, to retain the confidence of the
government, retaliate upon the Romans with deeds
of cruelty equal to theirs. Thus, though there is
plenty of 'religion' in Ireland, there is very little
piety or Christian feeling-at least, none the more on
account of the influence of the churches." -
The party having paused during this conversation
to observe the laborers, two little girls came to the
carriage with a bunch of hawthorn blossoms for each
of the travellers. The smiles of the children were
very sweet and happy, notwithstanding their condi-
tion, and as they turned to run away again, Allen,.
moved with pity, called them back and gave each a
half crown for their politeness. The party then started
on ; but had not gone far when they were arrested by
the cry of "there they are !-take them, dead or
alive !" At this shout, which seemed her death war-
rant, or worse ; the warrant of her captivity, Marion
fainted for the first time in her life.
Here the American's impetuosity served to make
the occasion memorable. Springing from the car-
riage, revolver in hand, lie met their assailants with
a round of shots which served to arrest their pro-.
gress. In the melse lie received a ball in his left
shoulder, wounding him badly. A hurried " what
ill thunder does this mean ?" from Allen, and "God
knows-I do not," from Potter, and each party took
time to look at his antagonist, when an explanation

OR, LIFE IN TWO woRLDs.

205

S

II

took place. The attacking party were in pursuit of
a runaway couple, and seeing Allen's carriage and
inmates, having an air not quite common, inmmedi
ately. jumped to the conclusion that they were thme
fugitives. Allen on his part had good reason to
apprehend that ke really was pursued, and being
resolved not to be taken, either " dead or alive," had
fired.
At Vinegar Hill, near which the accident occurred,
he was obliged to stop, both on account of his wound
and an arrest for shooting. Here' the excitement
caused by the affair was extravagant. The father of
the runaway young lady was one of-the wounded,
and further pursuit was given up for the time. As
Allen proved upon examination, that lie had fired in
self-defence, he was acquitted. More than that, lie
became a hero. The Irish, who love fighting, were
delighted at the short work made of his assailants by
'the young American. All the stories of Americanm
prowess ever heard, were fully corroborated by this
young man's spirited reception of the assailants, and
rich and poor did him honor during his stay among
them. Nothing like revenge was excited by the fact
that he had shot their countryman, but only admira-
tion of the manner of doing it.
Marion found her new relation of sister now plac-
ing her under some embarrassment. She was wvill-
ing and anxious -to be of service to so valuable a
friend ; .but the customs of the country allow and
require attentions from a sister, which in the United
States, would not be thought of, and the difficulty of
doing what was necessary to be done, without going


206

TILE ROMANCE OF AN IRIsH GIRL;i

beyond Allen's ideas of propriety, was sometimes
great. However, she addressed herself to her new
duties with cheerfulness, and was rewarded by see-
ing her patient improve under her care.
Vinegar lill was a place memorable for scenes of
bloodshed, and Marion regarded it with interest-.
Not much could be gathered from the inhabitants
concerning these events, and all parties seemed to
think it best it should be forgotten. The Catholic
power was still strong enough there to resnact them
any day, should the occasion present-.
Both Protestant and Catholics were very kind to
Allen during his confinement, and ministers of' both
churches visited him often in the capacity of their
holy office. Neither would one learn from what they
taught, that there was much difference of sentiment
between them; Christ being honored alike by them
with zeal befitting apostles. While it was thought
Allen was in some danger from his wound, the poor
exhibited great anxiety concerning his soul; when-
ever they came near him making gestures and say-
ing prayers with great energy, and imploring him to
"think of' his God," in repeated adj urations. All
these attentions, however, failed to make the invalid
more religious. His ideas of religion were widely
different from that practised about him, and lhe
shrunk with dislike from those mummeries. "Tie had
already," he said, "seen religion enough in Ireland,
was there any virtue in it, to have cured all its suffer-
ing and sorrow; as for him, he wanted none of it."
It was indeed enough to know that these meek-vis-
aged priests, whenever they had a point to gain, took

4
I

'1

OR, LIFE IN Two WORLDs,

207

the crucifix in their hands, and went through the
ignorant crowds, cunningly stirring up the wildest
passions of their natures to their own use. It was
such as these who were blest by the blood of the
saints ! And while Allen turned in disgust from such
followers of the meek and lowly Jesus, lie had about
as little regard for ministers and bishops, living in
splendor, and accumulating riches which are extorted
from a people who are left hungry, ragged, dirty and
destitute after having given up to them the fruits of
their labors. These extortioners, ever whining over
their arduous and self-denying labor, are making for-
tunes with -more ease than any other class of men.
A bishop cannot even change his robe after the
morning service without a boy to assist him, and to
turn out arid hand him his wine. He has a clerk to
read over a considerable portion of the service, and
the labor that he does, is to preach a sermon, the
zest of which is to enjoin upon his hearers loyalty,
both to Church and State.
Ini the IRomnish Church the principal requirement
is to be a good confessor of sins, and payer of taxes.
Sometimes the priest has to preach a-scathing sermon
to get the rents promptly from the miserable wretches.
Marion listened to one such from Father Murphy
while staying at Vinegar Hill. The holy Father
took fomr his text the parable of the rich man and
Lazarus ; and his sermon was after the manuelr fol-
lowing : " There was a rich inan, anmd there was, and
shiure and there was, and he died and he did, and
shure. Och, and lie went to hell, and he did ;
because not one of his taxes would he pay. And

.1


4

208

T HIE ROMANCE OF AN IRIsH GIRL;i

shure a poor man died, and he did, and he was taken
up to Abraham's bosom. And- shure Father Mur-
phy will die, he will, and when he goes up to the
gate, St. Pether will meet him, and he'll say-
'Father Murphy, what have you been doing down
there.' But shure he knows all about it. Bad luck
to me, if I don't tell him, and he'll say : ' well done
Father Murphy, go right into Abraham's bosom.'
And you'll die, and you will, and you'll go to hell
and you will, and you'll be burning up down there.
Anid you'll look up and see Father Murphy in- Abra-
ham's bosom, and you'll say, ' oh, Father Murphy,
send a drop of wather and put on our tongues, for
we are tormented in this place down here.' Bad
cess to me, if I send you one drop. Troth, I'll spit
on you ;" and his reverence leaned over the pulpit to
show what lie would do hereafter. The excited
expression on the faces of his hearers showed plainly
what they felt. lHe had been- their only spiritual
friend on earth, and if lie should desert them here-
after what would be their conditions Taxes were
paid as soon as could be, and the threatened disappro-
bation averted.
The announcement that the curate of the Pro-
testant church was to read the queen's proclamation,
and preach a sermon, drew Marion to listen to that.
This gentleman went on to say, that lie had received
his official call soon after taking his oath of allegi-
ance to the youthful queen; and to tell how earni-
estly lie had prayed that God would dispose the heart
of the royal maiden so as to make her a nursling
mother to the Church, and shield it from the wolf of

(4

Ii

OR, LIFE IN Two WORLDs.

209

Rome. At that allusion, a sensation was noticeable
among the Romians, and some mutterings were
heard. Stronger demonstrations were prevented by
the presence of the police. The curate went on to
say, how much the nation were indebted to George
I., who had left them basking in the sunshine of*
honor and security, and all the temporal benefits of-
a long Christian reign. Truth, uprightness and the
blessings of a grateful world encircled the brow of
that monarch, who would let his head come to the
block sooner than endanger British greatness and
glory, by permiittiug any to slight his authority.
Tears ran down the cheeks of the preacher as lie
spoke of that moment, when God removed this " Cha-
riot of Israel and the horsemen thereof"-and ex-
changed for him his earthly crown for a heavenly.
He reminded his congregation of the terrible judg-
ments which swallowed up those who murmured
against Moses and Aaron. lHe impressed on them
the important duty of loyal submission to the Queen
and Houses of Lords and Commons; and assured
them it was the best way to secure the blessing of
God, and worldly prosperity, lie reminded them
how parliament was laboring for the Church, which
had been shorn of her bishoprics, and defrauded of
her (hues, and in every way discouraged. After
speaking some time on the great things accomplished
by the Church, the speaker alluded to a class of peo-
ple who had withdrawn themselves from her influ-
ence, and gone to studying Cyclopoedias and using
reason and philosophy, until they had made infidels

A


S

IT
t
ii
ii
11
ii
ii
if
Ii
Ii
Ii

TnlE ROMANCE OF AN IRIsH GIRL

or atheists of themselves. On these he pronounced
great sorrows.
Not one wordi was uttered concerning the real mis-
sion of Christ on earth, or the true duty of the church
according to His teachings ! It was no0 wonder
IMarion thought thi~tt there was a falling' off from.
religion ini Ireland. This man she had listened to
was considered an extraordinary preacher ; yet the
effect of his sermon was to throw a gloom over her
mind. It reminded her of the power and might
of those social sinls from which she had so long
been suffering, and from which she must continue to
rebel until she had freed herself from them. She
could not help remembering that the preacher had
said nearly all revolutionary movements and dis-
turbances of the peace had been set on foot by men
professedly opposed to Christianity ; anti had alluded
to the condition of American society, in no comph-
mentary terms, as being full of infidelity. Was it
true, then, that in order to effect any great reform,
men must leave the limits of the Churchi

j

'4

F

I
I

OR, LIFE IN TWO WORLDS.

211

CHAPTER XVI.

LORD POTTRn had been all kindness and attention,
both to Allen and his sister, during their compulsory
stay at Vinegar Hill ; and now, as Allen thought him-
self able to travel and was very impatient to be gone, the
party again set out toward Dublin, reaching the town
of Wexford, after several days' travel. Tile appear.
anice of tile country was glorious in the absence of
any sights of shlockinIg want or distress. Allen was
resolved to see tile inside of some of the farmers'
houses, anmd accordingly ordered a dinner at one of
the better-looking sort. Marion was wicked enough
to enjoy tile occasion, as she knew pretty well what
they would find ; and knew Allen's curiosity was to
see what they had to eat, and how they proceeded
to eat it when prepared.
Ie soon had an opportunity to gratify his curiosity.
Potatoes, boiled and mashled, were put into a large
wooden bowl; then into tile centre of the potato
mountain, in which was previously made a crater,
were poured a little melted butter, and some warm
milk. This dish was put upon the table, and thme
guests invited to partake. Had not tile family set
the example, Allen would scarcely have known how to
proceed, as the table wvas not set with plates, and only
furnished with iron spoons5 with which each person took
up a part of a spoonful of the potato, and dipping it
into tihe dressing in thle centre, conveyed it to his

210


212

IIIJC ROMANC1~ OF AN IRISh OIIU~

mouth. This was, however, rather more stylish than
the usual mode, which is to gather about a basket of
boiled potatoes, with their coats still on, a lid eat them
frommi tile hand, ~vith a little seasoning of salt. If they
only have enough to satisfy hunger they are well
pleased. hut, even if they have not, tile Irish will
divide with a neighbor or stran(ter. Sometimes, when
there is scarcity, tile fi~ther and mnothei' portion out the
food to the children ; but, if a stranger enters the
house, each child makes haste to be first to offer his or
her best potato as a hospitality offering. If it is not
accepted and eaten, there is offence given. Allen, in
seeing? the cOIi(litiOli of the Irish at home, was enabled
to lln(lel'stalid the rapid improvement they make in
America.
In approachiiiig Carri g Fe#ry, Carrig Castle is the
object of greatest interest to the stranger. it has a
lonely situation on the rocky coast, and the broken
outline of the lofty tower gives it a look as if the god
of war had tossed the rocks into those fantastic
sluLpes; surely not as if mortal man had ever placed
them there for mortal use. Few of the Irish will go
near it, on account of the fearful ghost-stories told
about it; but Allen, though still feeble, could not
let pass by so good an opportunity for adventure.
.U2e resolved to discover the secret of its terrors, if
terrors it really had; and, in spite of Lord Potter's
persuasions to the contrary, made preparations to pay
it a visit. The keeper of the castle, a very old man,
could relate many wonderful stories about it, which
only increased Allen's determination to know more
of it., When lie expressed his intention of visiting it

I

~ L
I
4t1

OIR, LIFE IN TWO WOi~LI)5.

213

at the hour when ghosts were visible, the old man
declared it to be a strange desire, and even Potter
had some doubts about the safety of the enterprise.
Allen's theory about ghosts ~ that they could be
put to rest by a loaded revolver, and, in the anticipa-
tion of an attempt to frighten him, he took care to
provide hhnsclf with this disenchantment. The hour
of nightfall was thought to l)e as prolific of spectres
as any, therefore, Allen chose that hour, much to tile
anxiety of the old keeper, who did not care to show
the castle at that time. however, he got a reluctant
consent, and conlmence(l the tour of the deserted
apartments. They had not proceeded long, when
both were startled by sounds which Allen knew could
not be echo ; they were much more like a muffled
drum. The keeper became frightened, and begged
him to return, which lie would not consent to do
giving the old man pem'nmission to do so, however, if
lie would intrust him with tIme keys. The warder
was ashamed to desert a stranger in his own castle,
and kept on with him up to tIme first story. here a
beautiful view of the Sloney repaid the toil of ascend-
ing tIme long staircase. Forming itself into a bay at
this place, it tries to rival the sea in appearance, and
throws out long embracing arms, that curve in that
direction. Wimilo Allen admired this View froimm a
window, lie was trying to quiet the apprehensions of
his guide, by telling him that all stories of ghosts
originated with bands of outlaws, or criminals hiding
b
away from justice; that all Qese appearances had a
natural cause. They had not gone far, thus reassured,
when the sound of groans came plainly upon their


I

214

TilE ROMANCE OF AN IRISH GIEL

ears; yet Allen would not be turned back, but di-
verted the guide by asking if the place was never
used as a prison, which the old man said it was not.
They now ('aine to a chamber, in which were piles of
huiiian bones. These were said to have been left
here by Robert Fitzpherne, in 1169; and that if any
one ventures to remove them, they will be replaced.
Allen looked at sonic of them closely, and came to
the conclusion that they had been covered with flesh,
not as long ago as that.
All Allen's rhetoric could not persuade the guide to
go any further with him that evening ; therefore he
took the keys, as before proposed, and after lighting
the old man down the staircase, returned and pro-
ceeded alone. While examining one chamber, he was
satisfied he heard voices beneath the floor, and, in
such a way as left little doubt of the existence of a
trap-door communicating with the lower 1room, and
opening into the one lie was in. Preparing himself
for an adventure, he began cautiously to look for the
secret door, which, after a little search, he found.
Carefully placing his light where it could not be put
out, he proceeded to raise the trap. As he did so, he
took care that his hat should be mistaken for his
head. lie had calculated correctly, for, in an instant
the deceiving hat was pierced through with a pistol
ball, after which all was still except Allen's counter-
feit groans. Soon a ferocious looking fellow thrust
his shoulders above the opening, and, glancing
cautiously about him, finally sprang up through the
door and proceeded to look for the intruder. Lying
perfectly still, Allen awaited his approach, and

A
Al
Al
I

OR, LIFE IN TWO WORLDS.

215

watched his movements ; when, perceiving the fellow
was about to strike him with his heavy horse-pistol
on discovering that lie was alive, lie let go a bullet
from his revolver, and the outlaw fell dead.
having thus dispatched one very material ghost,
Allen proceeded to look for another, as lie suspected
there night be more where this omie came froni.
Bringing his light he descended to survey the h)l~lce,
when wonder of wonders! a little blue-eyed fairy-
girl ~vas discovered, curled up in a corner, shivering
with fright. half child, half woman, pale, famished
and terrified, she smote his manly heart with pity.
As speedily as possible, lie hurried her out of her
dungeon, though she scarce could assist his efforts
with her own strength. lie did not stop long to
question her, but hastened with her back to the
apartment of the keeper, glad to breathe free air once
more. The old man stared like one demented, with-
out speaking.
"These are the ghosts you keep, you old rascal !"
cried Allen, as soon as lie could get his breath from
fatigue.
"holy Mother !" exclaimed the old man, "who is
she, and where did you find her ?"
"Where I expected to, in one of your dark cham-
bers. I told you 1 could find living ghosts, if any, in
these infernal old dens, that you keep so choicely, as
gems of amitiquity."
Allen vouchsafed no further information to the
keeper of ghosts, but retiirned to his friends as fast as
his own condition and that of his prize wonld allow.
Fortunately, the shades of evening concealed the Un-


TIIF: ROMANCE OF AN IRISH GIRL;

usual spectacle from the public eye ; and only Lord
I~otter and Marion were aroused from anxiety to aston-
ishment by his reappearance in such company. his
lordship brought wine for them, amid soon learned the
history of the adventure, which brought to light so
palpable) if delicate a spectre.
The account which Aimie Stewart gave of herself,
was as follows: She was born at lirniingh am,
England. 11cr flithier was a gentleman of rank, who
married her mother clandestinely, and shortly. after-
ward forsook her, rather than lose his birthright.
11cr mother's father, incensed at the trouble brought
upon hini by her unfortunate marriage, refused to
receive her back again; amid, after' lingering along
until Annie's birth, she (lied of grief. Thurman
Stewart was married again before the death of Annie's
mother; but the flict of his first clandestine marriage
becoming known to his father, the grandfather of lit-
tle Annie, the child was taken and adopted into the
family. Something like remorse for the cruelty
toward the (lead, caused the Stewarts to
treat the 0r1)han with kindness until the death of her
grandfather, when the selfislmess of her stepmother
being aroused by the knowledge that, by a legal dis-
tribution of property, Annie would get the largest
portion, began to cause persecution, and finally she
was sent to Ireland to be out of the way. Whether
her father knew how she had been disposed of she
could not tell; but the fact of her banishmciit was
good reasQil for presuming lie would not have inter-
fered.
Thus, by a decree of fortune, Allen was made the

i
I
A

I
I
I
I

guardian of a young and destitute girl. To leave her
in Ireland, already overrun with helpless children,
without any knowledge of labor, and unused to the
habits of the poor, would be to doom her to the con-
dition of those miserable wretches lie had everywhere
seen, and was not to be thought ot~ To retain her in
their company would be to take a great risk on them-
selves, lie could pass her off, in her present con-
dition, and with her English pronunciation, for his
sister, as he has done Miss Wallace; and, curiosity
once aroused about them, the whole party might be
suspected of some impropriety. On the other hand,
the affifir at the castle had transpired, and the igno-
rant, excitable people were inclined to be offended with
Allen for disturbing their belief in ghosts. The old
keeper, too, was very much distressed about what
had takemi plac~7~ He had lived a long life in the full
confidence that he was the keeper of ghosts. Never
having harmed any one himself, he had no fears of
being haunted by them, and it was a decided dis-
tinction to be able to entertain others with remark-
able accounts of ghostly doings in which other people
figured, while he only held the keys. The case now
bid fair to be altered. The man Allen had murdered
in the tower, might accuse him of having been instru-
mental in causing his death by introducing the Ame-
rican to the castle; and might revenge himself upon
him in sonic horrible ghostly manner. his only
hope was that the man might have been a Protestant,
in which case the priest could give him a charm to
keep away his phantom. The giving of charms, or
settling of ghosts, was quite a lucrative business to the
10

-I

216

OR, LIFE IN TWO WORLDS.

217


I

218

'filE ROMAISCE OF AN IRISH GIRL;

priests. Even a Protestant can receive a charm, if
he comes with the Bible in his hand to get it, and
the ceremony of settling the ghost is very simple. The
Ilaunte(l pcz-~on demands of the spectre three times,
"who are yo~i, and what do you want?" If it is not
the devil himself the ghost will be compelled to
answer; and may then be commanded to disappear
and never return. If it does not obey under these
circumstances, the proof is considered conclusive that
the devil has appeared to the haunted person.
As they were situated at Carrig Ferry, the
party thought it advisable to ufake all convenient
haste to get away, and Marion made use of her skill
in contriving a suitabk wardrobe for Annie Stewart
out of a portion of her own, now none too ~vell sup-
plied. Lord Potter confessed himself ashamed of
his country. "This is the end," said he to Allen,
"of all your romance about old castles, and gems of
antiquity.' Their end is likely to prove as infamous
as their origin, which, in many cases, was infamous
enough. Many are the scenes of blood and violence
their crumbling walls have witnessed; scenes damna-
ble enough to have given them over to evil spirits
to haunt, and it is not surprising the people fanc5r
them thins occupied."
There was no time, however, for the discussion of
such matters, lest Somebody might take it into hi~
head to enter a complaint against them, and cause
them delay, or, possibly imprisonment, and perhaps
tind them worthy of death, a consummation most
earnestly to be avoided. An Irishman may like to
be hung or transported for killing a Protestant,

OR, LIFE IN TWO WORLDS.

219

because thereby lie gains the approbation of his
priest, and the name of a patriot; but Allen had no
such ambition. A Protestant might desire to get
into difficulty jn order to say that lie had been con-
tending for his God, his Bible, or his Queen. Allen
did not wish even to distinguish himself in this man-
ner, therefore the order was given to go on immc-
diately, notwithstandin~ a lit rest
b     tle further   would
have benefited Allen, and improved Annie's condi-
tion.
But a strong fear of the consequences to one or
both the ladies of the company, going to Dublin,
where they might be recognized by any chance
acquaintance or relation happening there, impelled
Lord Potter to oppose the movement. Since Annie's
advent, -Allen had confessed to him the identity of
Miss Wallace with Miss Cunningham, and the result
was, his advice to leave both ladies upon the road in
some place as secure as possible to find, until they
could complete that mission to Dublin.
This latter proposition was opposed by Marion, who
not only feared to be left in this way; but wished to
he where she might be earning something, if tarry
she must, upon her journey, before returning to
America. Many plans were talked over; but
Marion's plan was to go to Glasgow, Scot land, taking
Annie with her, and there remain, until Allen had
either succeeded or failed in his attempt to see
Woods, and otherwise fultilled his intentions with
regard to travel in Ireland and England. Lord Pot-
ter was of opinion that this would be a safe, feasible
plan, and it was finally adopted, with the amend-


OR, LIFI~ IN TWO WORLDS.          221

220      THE nOMANCE OF AN 1111811 GIRL.

ixient that Allen should accompany the ladies, and
afterward join Lord Potter in Dublin. The party
then set out with this new arrangement, Lord Potter
going on to their original destination, and Allen turn-
ing off to Wicklow to get a vessel for Belfast and
Glasgow.
Marion was rather better pleased with the prospect
of going to Scotland than at the first thought she
had been; for the several difficulties in the way of
her remaining longer in Ireland seemed to magnify
themselves as they were more carefully considered.
However much she might wish to see her lover, or
even to be near him, her very presence might entan-
gle him in further difficulties, should it by any chance
become known. Again, the state of her purse
warned her that she should soo~i ~be dependent upon
strangers unless she could find means to replenish it.
From what she had heard of Scotland, she hoped to
find the poor in a better condition than in Ireland,
and to procure some more honorable employment
than Ireland furnished her laboring classes. She
thought of the factories of Glasgow, and felt sure of
doing something for herself if she could only get an
engii~ement to work in one of them. And again,
Annie must be provided for with her in some way,
until her guardian's return, as All en had expressed his
determination to take her to his mother in the United
States. Notwithstanding this resolution, Marion
thought it best Annie should be taught some kind of
useful labor, which would raise her above depen-
dence in any event. By her own teaching and exam-
ple she believed she could make the young girl love

independence, and fit her for the orphaned and pen-
niless fate which had befallen her. These thoughts,
however much they entered into her plans, she had
not mentioned to Allen; because lie, with all the airs
of a young lord, had decided to adopt and educate
Annie, and provide for her as a lady should be pro-
vV4~d for. The child had taken hold of his heart
from the moment of her discovery, and he planned
for her already as if she had been his sister. Marion
knew the time would come, at no great distance
either, ~vhen Annie would feel this generosity bur-
densome, and her position humiliating; so she made
her plans accordingly.
But while Marion was scheming, there were other
schemes than hers on foot. The old keeper of Car-
rig Castle had been on the alert to arrest the move-
ments of this gho~t-ahdncting party, and at a turn of
the road, a few miles from their resting-place, a
party of seven stout Irishmen suddenly intercepted
their progress with fierce looks and fiercer words,
demanding their names, and business in these parts.
Allen's native wit and assurance served him here,
however, as it had often done before. "My* name,"
said he, "is B. F. Allen, at your service,, and my
business is to make friends with the Irish. I am
from the United States, where you have a brother,
unless I am mistaken," addressing himself to the lea-
der of the gang.
"That's thrue," answered the fellow, taken by sur-
prise. "Its meself that has that same, shure. And
do ye's know Pat Maloney ?"
"That's the name," said Allen, readily; "he wanted


222      ~xw ROMANCE OF AN IRIsH GIRL;
I should ~ee you, and ask if any more of the folks
were coming out; and if they were, he wanted inc to
take them back with me?'
Presto-change! They were all kindness in a
moment, for Maloney's friends were as much inter-
ested in America as himself. Those who had not
relatives in that country, could inquire after old
neighbors; and Allen was asked to wait until they
could get some whisky to drink with him. But
Allen told his late enemies that he had to go to
Wickford and back, in a certain, length of time, and
could not stop then; but that, on his return, he would
see them and any other Irish, who wished to converse
about America. In return for this promise, they
earnedd him not to be out after six o'clock in the
evening, as, from that hour to six in the morning, the
laborers on the estates were at liberty, and he might
meet with unpleasant adventures. Thanking them
for this warning, Allen parted from his new friends,
and many a hearty "God bless you" sounded after
him.

OR~ LIFE IN TWO WORLDS.        223

CHAPTER XIX.
ARRIVING at Wicklow, the party took ship for Bel-
fast, reaching that place on the 12th of July, just in
tune to witness the celebration of that day, which
commemorates the Battle ot~ the Boyne. It would
have been a grand sight, l)Ut for the fact of its being
so annoying to the iRomanists.
A 1)roc~siomm, three miles in length, of ~vell-dressed
people, made quite an imposing appearance. As
Allen afterward learned, the rich Protestants made
arrangements to furnish comfortable clothing to all
who wished to walk with the Orangemen. An
Prince of
orange and purple flag, with William,
Orange, painted on it, floated from the steeple of a
church; and soldiers were parading all the streets.
The IRoninanists would soon have made a struggle to
bring down that obnoxious flag, had the church not
been inside of a nobleman's castle wall. As it was,
the celebration went on quite orderly. The proces-
sion was made up of lodges, of forty or fifty mem-
bers, and as many men, women and children as they
could induce to join them; all carrying poles,
trimmed with orange ribbons, orange lilies, and blue
rockets. Each lodge, also, had a large flag, and a
band of music playing every air most likely to mor-
tify or exasperate the poor IRomanists, or "croppies,"
as the Protestants call them in contempt. One song,


224      Tnl~ ROMANCE OF AN IR~5If GIRL;                                 OR~ LIFE IN TWO WORLDS.        225

our travellers noticed, which was uncommonly pro-
voking, the chorus being:
"Down, down, croppv, lie dowi,
Up with the orange and down with the grecn,
The face of a croppy should never be seen."
The "Boyne Waters," another annoying composi-
tion, was frequently given. But the iRomanists kept
their doors and windows closed until the Protestants
had got through their parade, and so saved an open
humiliation.
All the Protestant public houses were open to the
crowds to drink and toast to their heart's desire; so
that, should there be any difficulty during the night,
the party of Americans were in a good position to
become mixed up with it. But, they were reserved
for a greater distinction.
The bishop having heard that an American gentle-
man, with ladies, was stopping at the hotel-and
fearing it might not be altogether pleasant at that
time, sent an invitation to the party to stop at his
house. Allen accepted the invitation very gladly,
introducing Marion as his step-sister, as usual, and
Annie as a young girl, travelling under their care,
going to her mother in Scotland.
The same style of conversation was repeated here
that had entertained them in Cork. The good bishop
had much to say about the United States, and the
pride the mother country took in her daughter; but
alluded to her still crude manners and sentiments, as
if they were natural to her age; and hoped the mis-
sionaries sent out by England would have a good
influence in remodellim~g those sentiments!

"To what did he refer in particular ?" Allen asked.
"To the sentiment of universal elevation," said the
bishop. "Of course a gentleman may rise in intel-
lect and in the social scale; but, that any common
htborer may conic to be President, is simply repulsive
and unnatural. it is a false sentiment, and ought not
to be encouraged. I hear of apprentice boys in your
country rising step by step, until they stand in the
halls of your National Legislature."
"Very well," said Allen, "what objection do you
make to that sort of elevation? Is not England wil-
ling her sons should rise to any position they are
fitted for ?"
"Ah, yes, we are willing, provided they advance
by the straight and narrow path provided for those
who aspire to greatness or renown. But, to have tIme
people rushing up on every side and claiming to have
a right to this way, would soon bring about a very
unpleasant state of public affairs. It is the order of
nature. and heaven that there should be grades of
rank; and where these are best preserved, there is the
best order. A peasant has no right, to aspire to he a
prince."
"That depends on the peasant's capacity t&amp; rule,"
said Allen. "It might happen he would make a
better king than his Royal highness. In our nation,
we give men an opportunity to test this capacity; and
change our dynasty when we choose, or whenever
the new candidate for honors seems most worthy of
them."
"You will get over this Republicanism when you
get wiser," said the bishop. At that moment dinner
10*


226

THE ROMANCE OF AN IRISH GIRL;

wgs announced. The table of his lordship was a
splendid display of plate and good liquors. Here,
agaHi, Allen created surprise, by declining to drink
wine. "I never allow myself to become enthusias-
tic," said the bishop; which remark was intended to
rebuke his guest's ultra temperance principles. But
whatever rel)uguance the bishop might have had to
enthusiasm in abstaining from ~vine, he gave a pretty
good evidence of warmth in the indulgence of it.
The hrst sentiment that was drunk, was in the follow-
ing style:
"Come, let us every orange man
Take a full glass in his hand,
And drink to William's memory,
Who, on the twelfth day of July,
Conceived the plan that freed us all
From Popery's detested tiiraii.
So, fill the glass once and again,
Aiid drink to him, ye Orange men,
Until the day you die l"
The bishop responded by drinking to the words:
"- the goose that raised the quill,
That signed the Emancipation Bill."
A third drank, "To the Pope in , and the
Devil throwing priests at him."
A fourth:
"     O'Connell and all his tricks-.
- the priest and his crucifix-
the Pope and all his crew,
And      the man that would not -   him, too I"
The excitement of religion and wine *was becoming

I

OR, LIFE IN TWO WORLDS.

227

so strong at this dinner, that, at the earliest possible
moment, the ladies excused themselves and retired
from table. Allen soon followed them, disgusted
with the songs and toasts he heard. Just as he was
leaving the table, the name of Bishop Fm'edonia was
announced. Though Allen could not quite connect
the name with any one he knew, it sounded familiar,
and lie mentioned it to Marion, who was instantly
alarmed and insisted on making an excuse to return
to the hotel. Allen accordingly sent word he had
determined to take a steamer that iiight, and hurried
back to his hotel hoping to find one going out. They
were, however, compelled to remain ; though both
the ladies were in a state of constant anxiety.
Marion feared that, if discovered to be there by
Bishop Fredonia, she should be seized at once, as an
absconding, disobedient daughter, arid ~he well knew
the public sentiment would be against her. And
Annie knew equally well that, if anything befell
Marion, it would expose her to suspicion and per-
haps ill-treatment, which she feared her generous pro-
tector had not the power to prevent.
As had been apprehended, about midnight a quar-
rel broke out between the Romans and Protestants,
after the soldiers had retired. The hotel where Allen
was stopping was surrounded and filled to overflow-
ing. "Smash everything ?" was the cry of the
assailants, and to their work they went with a good
will. Allen ran to the apartment occupied by the
ladies, and succeeded in getting in and locking the
door behind him. The riot went on with vigor,
women carried their aprons full of stones for their


228      TIlE ROMANCE OF' AN IRISH GIRL;                                OR~ LIFE IN TWO WORLDS.      229

husbands to hurl at the Protestants, and the confu-
Sion was perfectly demoniac on both sides. No one
molested the Americans, however, and when quiet
was restored, they thanked their good fortune on this
occasion in keeping out of harm's way. Still, Allen
did not feel quite like going to bed, as thei'e was no
certainty of the peace continuing, and the little party
remained together in Marion's apartment. Indeed,
Annie's nervous condition seemed to make it neces-
sary to stay by her during the night. She was suf-
fering terribly from fright and excitement, which, in
her delicate health, was greatly to be deplored. Not
so Marion. After the first thrill of apprehension was
over she became calm again, and armed herself
coolly for resistance. This, Wowever, now began to
seem unnecessary, as the noise had all died away.
About an hour after quiet was restored, and just
as their eyelids began to droop heavily with sleepi-
ness and fatigue, Marion noticed a whispering in the
hall outside her door, and inspired with a sudden
dread of Bishop Fredonia, her heart gave one wild
bound and she started to her feet. Directly a loud
rap upon the door followed, and voices were heard
demanding admittance. Upon being asked who
were there, no answer was given. Then followed
kicks and blows, and more orders to open the door,
from a voice which Marion now recognized as that of
Andy Dean, the church clerk who us~d to assist the
Rev. Mr. Hamilton in the church of Benmare.
There was no longer any doubt of his errand, as
Marion could distinctly hear him giving orders how
to proceed to the gang of Irish whom he was leading

4
.4
4
4
4

to his cowardly attack. "Be sure you take the
girls," was his last order as the door burst open; but
the inevitable six shooter did execution as it had
done before, and three or four of the intruders bit
the dust.
"Thunder and hell !" . cried one of the assailants,
"it's the devil himself that's in there, and not a con-
pie of girls, bad luck to his riverence I" "it's me
brother that's kilt," whimpered an old man, trem-
bling between grief and fear.
The assailants were driven back by the startling
reception they had met into the hall, and the police
now began to arrive. Seeing that she had nothing
to do but to wait the result of affairs, Marion
devoted herself to Annie who had fainted at the burst-
ing open of the door. The police made an
arrest of the whole assaulting party; but upon the
representations of the landlord, let Allen remain at
liberty, who made the best possible use of his free-
dom and his time by hurrying his party on board a
steamer at an early hour of the morning.
Marion regretted the part of the old clerk, Dean,
in the affray that had happened, because she knew he
was only the tool of more powerful persons. It was
very easy to guess that Elia had communicated with
the bishop, and that when he heard of the strangers
who had been at his brother prelate's house, their
identity was at once presumed upon as certain. The
old man had believed himself doing God service, in
obeying the orders of the bishop, and bringing to
1dm if possible that terrible and ungovernable 6hiid
whose misdemeanors had been related to hiiu almost

228

229


230      TILE ROMANCE OF AN IRISH GIRL;                                   OR, LIFE I~ TWO WORLDS.        231

since the time when he registered her birth and bap-
tisin. And now, poor old man, he was a prisoner
and in disgrace ; away from home and unbefriended
even by the bishop who prefers not to be known in
the afhdr. All this Marion readily conjectured, and
wished she could hcLve done something for his relief,
at least to save him from the tread-mill to which
there was not much doubt he would be condemned,
with the other rioters. It would be a hard thing for
tbe old man who, for thirty years, had been parish
clerk, respected and regarded as a sort of oracle by
the numerous young people whose names he had
written from time to time in the church register.
But her own safdy and that of Annie demanded
her thoughts for the present. The captain of the
steamer on board which they were taken was a
Scotchinan, which was a favorable circumstance; the
Scotch ~iot being 111gb Churchmen. But Allen (lid
not enter into particulars to explain the disordered
appearance of the party, one of whom was quite ill,
and another stained with blood. He only said they
had fallen into the hands of the rioters who besieged
the inn, and had had their door broken open, which
had given the younger lady a great fright. The cap-
tain sympathized with them, and said it was the name
of Marion Wallace which the people did not like
and had stirred up their riotous feelings. Had the
lady who l)ore that name been called Bess with a
good English-sounding surname, he thought she
would have been respected.
"But when the lassies get to Scotland, Marion
Wallace will be welcome," said the hearty Scotch-

man, "and, if they choose, they can tarry at my-
house while you return to Ireland."
This return spokeii of, wa~ ostensibly to be present
at the trial of' the rioters, which, indeed, he had pro-
mised to do. Therefore, after listening to a good
deal of enthusiastic talk about Wallnee and Bruce,
and hearing Marion say she should soon like Scotland
better than Ireland, frOm which she was in a fair
way to be quite weaned, Allen took leave of his com-
panions and returned on the same steamer to Belfast.
his presence at the trial was of no great use, inas-
much as he could not identify any of the parties ac-
cused. Tile could only tell his story of the assault
and the manner in which he had defended himself
and the ladies, as the fact of killed and wounded
already had proven.
After the trial, which resulted in the sending
several persons to jail, among whom was poor old
Mr. Dean, Allen decided not to remain longer in Ire-
land at present. Though safe from arrest, he liked
not to be exposed to become involved in any of the
frequent quarrels between the two religious denomi-
nations. The Protestants were decidedly in the as-
cendency here, but that only made the Catholics so
much the more rancorous and dangerous. Many
murders had been committed on the twelfth of July.
In some places whole lodges had been cut to pieces,
and the priests were instigating this sort of work
wherever they dared.
To escape from these turbulent scenes, Allen con-
eluded to join his friends in England * To attempt to
see John Woods, at that time, and before he ceased

II


232      TIlE ROMANCE OF AN IRISH GIRL;
to be watched by Marion's enemies, would be worse
thai~ useless, and only endanger his cause and hers.
He was satisfied for the present with his exploits as
knight-errant, and resolved to see something of less
active life. Writing to Lord Potter not to expect
him in Ireland immediately, lie again crossed the
channel, and landed in London. There he found Mr.
hail and some other friends greatly interested in the
World's Fair, which was then on exhibition. But
Allen could not get up much relish for this great
show, having imbibed a dislike to the spirit of Eng-
lish enterprise from seeing so much of the effects of
misrule in a portion of the territory of Great Britain.
However, he was forced to take some notice of it, and
allowed himself to be shown about by Mr. Hall and
a young nobleman whom Hall introduced as Lord
Murphy. This young English lord conceived the
humorous idea of having some sport at the expense
of the young man from New Hampshire, and corn-
mnenced the acquaintance by a great show of conde-
scension and familiarity, making an abortive attempt
at aping Yankee manners, but only spoiling his Eng-
lish style. We took occasion to direct Allen's atten-
tion to the fact that there was being some sensation
produced by the presence of a slave from the United
States, who had been called upon to represent the
black man in America, and requested to make an
address upon the subject of American slavery. The
delegates from the United States objected to having
the subject of slavery dragged before the convention,
and contended that a negro was not a proper person
to represent any portion of the Republic. They had

OR, LIFE IN Two wORLDs.       233

been sufficiently annoyed at home by the discussion
of slavery, and did not want to listen to it there.
Lord Durphy was *quite exultant over the fact that
the Americans shrink from having slavery discussed,
and vaunted the English love of freedom in tri-
niuphant terms.
Allen was annoyed by this vain-glorious and empty
assumption of liberal principles where there were so
many facts to convince a stranger of their utter
worthlessness.
"I assure your lordship," said he, "that I am a
freeman, and desire to see free whites and free blacks,
but I cannot tolerate the assurance of a people who
presume to sympathize with the sleek, well-fed, and
happy American negro, while they have such sights
a~ these in their streets (pointing to a miserable wo-
man sweeping the crossing), whose factories ~nd
mines contain children who never breathe fresh air
or look upon the sunlit heavens, and whose mad-
houses are filled with the victims of hard labor and
poverty. And I do not want to hear of the refine-
ment of a nation whose women keep the grog-shops,
and mix up freely ~vith beer-drinking men 'at taverns
and shops of all kinds."
"Damrne, you are getting impertinent," said his
lordship, angrily.
"When an Englishman introduces such topics,"
answered Allen, coolly, "he had best not to be too
easily nettled."
"Excuse me, ~ replied the young lord; "I
ought to have looked for our own faults first, per-
haps, before finding out those of our neighbors."


234     TJIIC ROMANCE OF AN IRISH GIRL;                                                         235

"A course seldom pursued by any of us," answered
Allen, pleasantly.
While the young men were smoothing out their
somewhat ruffled tempers, "Matthew the publican"
aSked for his penny. Allen threw him a shillino.
Next came blind "l3artimeus," to whom Allen threw
another shilling. Theii " Mary Magdalene " for her
l)ortion, and got a shilling also.
"how long are you going to keep throwing~ out
shillings ?" asked Lord IDurphy.
here are two Inore; and sixpence demanded to
send St. Paul to the heathen," answered Allen, toss-
ing out the money.
"These beggars only get a penny in general," said
his lordship, "unless it is the beggars for St. Paul.
Should more be given, half London would be blind
or lame."
"Oh, well," said Allen, "at home we have no
beggars, and to give these shillings to these miserable
wretches is a sort of luxury of feeling I shall not en-
joy in a little while from now."
Thus ended a conversation which left neither party
the wiser; for Englishmen are hardened in their
wrong-doing, and all the talking in the world will
never convince them they might do better.
Some of Allen's friends urged him to visit' the
various places of note usually sought out by strangers
-towers and ruins, etc. But Allen had seen enough
of ruined castles in Ireland, and refused to be "hum-
bugged" any longer. If the English were proud of
their relics of barbarism they were welcome to enjoy
them; he, for one, was resolved not to worship the

remains of a cruel and l)arl)arous age. lie had no
taste for seeing a sword rusty with 5OlflC brave mnaii's
blood, nor for standing on time spot where some vic-
tim of bloody avarice or revenge had died a horrible
death. lie was ashamed of the troops of Americans
who thronged those places, full of eager interest to
see where the fourth Edward had his own bother
murdered, and behaving as if they felt the spot pos-
sessed some sacred charm; or to see where Lady
Jane Grey parted from her husband to see him led
to execution; 6r to pass through the same door by
which the poor victim herself ~vent out to the same
fate; to ~tand in the identical spot where sonic other
inhuman tragedy had been performed. Allen knew
very well that it was no latent spirit of cruelty which
impelled Americans to seek these show places, but
only an idle curiosity seeking to amuse itself with
something out of the ordinary line of travel. Still, it
vexed him that a proud and arrogant nation should
keep on show the evidences of their guilt or shame,
and that a free and democratic people should show
such a desire to make them honorable subjects of
enthusiasm.
The parks of London and her elegant buildings--
her gorgeous dwellings and solemn temples-would
have interested Allen at another time. Now his
mind was full of unrest from the effects of his late
adventures, and the anticipation of coming ones.

OR~ LIFE IN TWO WORLDS.

234

235


286      THE ROMANCE OF AN mxsii GIRL;

OR~ LIFE IN TWO WORLDS.         237

ChAPTER XX;
NOT long after his arrival, Allen fell in with an old
acquaintance from New England, named Brown.
lie was very glad to meet him in that place, and
equally glad and surprised to observe that Brown
seemed in better spirits than common with him; be-
ing full of life, and lavishing money on his own and
his friend's pleasures, in a manner hardly warranted
by his New England training or fortunes. Allen took
the liberty of inquiring into the change noticeable in
his friend's affairs; and, in order to make his account
of himself understood, it will be necessary to go back
about twenty-two years in the young man's history.
At the time mentioned, Mrs. Brown, who had re-
cently become a widow, was keeping a small tavern
in a quiet country town of Yermon1t. Among her
guests at dinner, one day, were a lady and gentle-
man, who came in a carriage having a coat of arms
painted on it. The lady appeared to be ill and much
depressed in spirits. She had with her a young babe
not six months old. The gentleman was quite talka-
tive, and, among other tImings, inquired if she had
a large family. MIrs. Brown confessed that, beside
her maiden sister, she had no one in the world; at
which the gentleman appeared reflective. Her guests
took their leave, and Mrs. Brown thought no more
about them that day. About midnight she was
awakened by the crying of an infant. Supposing

some travellers must have come in late, she made
haste to get up and attend to their wants. She found
no one, however, in the house, and the crying ap-
peared to be outside the door; where, sure enough, she
soon discovered a basket containing the babe which
had been there at dinner. Its clothing and a flask of
milk were the only things left for its inheritance. In
wonder and pity, Mrs. Brown called upon her maiden
sister to come and see what had been left for them,
and the two sat up that night with the little stranger.
The old maid was rather displeased with the new.
coiner for a while, but finally came to like it; and
Mrs. Brown was delighted. 11cr lonely heart twined
itself around the little stranger, whom she resolved to
adopt as her own, not having much fear its cold-
hearted parents would ever come to claim it. Nor
did they? The child grew to the boy, who was to
have all the 1ar~dn~' his active mind craved, and his
humble mother's means could procure; and truly she
imagined he acquired a "sight on it."
But, as all ambition excites more or less envy,
Sheldon Brown's good scholarship was the occasion of
an effort to mortify him on the part of some of his school-
mates, who taunted him with having no father. This
terrible gibe entered the boy's heart, and rankled
there. Often he asked his good foster-mother the
particulars of his desertion by his probable parents,
and what clue they had left by which they might be
discovered. She gave him all the information she
herself possessed, which was but little. A description
of the persons after such a lapse of time would be of
little service. The only hints she could produce,


238      TIIF ROMANCE OF AN IRISh GIRL;
were a small clasp which was on the child's dress
when she took it in, and what she recollected of the
arms upon the carriage. This latter, she described to
him, and showed him the former. The good woman
resented the reproaches cast upon her adopted son
deeply. He was the child of sinners, she admitted;
but that he was a child of shame, she did not believe,
Something would one day turn up to show these evil
disposed people that her son was a child of honorable
marriage, however his parents had treated him, lie
should go to college and receive a gentleman's edu-
cation, at all events, and if ever he discovered hi~
parents, they should not be ashamed of him. This
generosity and forethought on the old lady's part,
had turned out well. Sheldon had graduated with
honor, and was the pride of his foster-mother's heart.
Therefore, when he expressed to her his long kept
and earnest desire to go to England, and promised
her she should lose nothing by indulging him in this
wish-for if he did not find his family he would re-
turn content and settle down to a profession-and
if he found them he would not forsake her any more for
that, she gave him the necessary means and parted
with him hopefully.
The adventure was successful. After wandering
about London for three or four months without ac-
complishing anything to aid his search, Sheldon hit
upon a plan to find who had made the clasp which he
kept carefully with him as evidence. He got together
several old directories, and at last found the name of
the maker and his place of business. Though he had
little hope of finding the individual, he fortunately

OR, LIFE IN TWO WORLDS.        239

did so. By confiding to him his business, he induced
him to look over his old books, in the hope of getting
a clue there to the name of the purchaser. The old
man at last announced that he had sold that clasp and
some other articles to son of the iDuke of -.
This was good news to Sheldon Brown. lie then
inquired what the jeweler knew of the duke's family;
and the old man's memory thus refreshed, called up
the almost forgotten fact that the duke had a son a
number of years ago, who mysteriously disappeared
from London, since when he had not been heard of.
Here, then, was a difficulty-but Sheldon surmounted
it. Requesting the jeweler to keep his secret, lest
an alarm might untimely be taken, Sheldon made
an occasion when he had an opportunity of question-
ing the oldest servant in the duke's employ about the
family. Though the servant avoided acknowledging
anything, his manner confirmed Sheldon's belief as
much as if he had told him his suspicions were cor-
rect. Going then to a barrister of considerable re-
nown for shrewdness, Sheldon told him all the points
in the case already gained, and promised him a con-
tingent fee on condition of finding out the rest. The
barrister, after some careful investigation, determined
to go to the duke and inform him that there were
suspicions afloat concerning the fate of his son who
had so long been lost in mystery; and that an inves-
tigation would be made unless something was done
to satisfy the public mind. Thus taken by surprise,
after some show of anger at this interference in his
family matters, the duke confessed that lie had a son
now living in a part of his palace, who was a hope-


20 ~TH E ROMANCE OF AN 'IRIsH GIRL O IEI WOWRD.2t

less lunatic ; and had been so since the time of his
disappearance from society. This son had married a
wife of low degree, for which offence he incurred the
severe displeasure of his father. But pardon was
finally promised him, and restoration to rights in case
no children were born to this marriage. Unhappily
one child had already been born;.and, to secure the
duke's favor, the father determined to place it where
its existence should never be known ; and for this
purpose had gone to America. The poor mother,
compelled to abandon her babe so heartlessly, soon
drooped and died ; and her death, together with re-
morse for deserting his child, overcame the little
reason so weakminded a man ever could have had,
and lie became a victim to a mild but hopeless mad-
ness. Suqh were the circumstances .gathered from
the duke's confession. He never had known where
his grandson was left, for he only became aware of his
existence after his son lost his reason.
".Supposing he could be found," asked the barris-
ter, " would it benefit your son's condition I"
"If lie could be made to understand that it was
his child I believe it might," answered his highness.
" Then 1 will fetch him," said the barrister, depart-
ing.
When Sheldon heard the circumstances of his
early infancy he was inclined to refuse an acquain-
tance with his grandfather ; but anxiety on account
of his unhappy parent led him to consent to an inter-
-view. Upon reaching the gate, lie saw for the first
time that peculiar coat of arms which his foster..'
mother had attempted to describe to him from

lIn

memory, and had no longer any doubt as to his lin-
c age.
Such a meeting as this was to be-so humbling on
one side, so exciting on both-did not take place
without a feeling of reluctance. But the duke, once
persuaded to get over the matter in the only way left,
quickly decided to do it handsomely, and received
his grandson with much kindness, asking him with
apparent emotion if he were willing to receive for a
father a hopeless lunatic. Sheldon answered that lie
would be glad to own a lawful father, in any condi-
tion, it having been the aim of his life to find such
a person, and if it pleased his highness, he would be
glad to see him immediately.
Without further conversation, the duke repaired
with his grandson to the apartments assigned the
insane man. What a piteous spectacle ! The poor
worn victim of mental delusion ceaselessly wearying
himself by assuring a marble figure of a woman
which he mistook for his lost wife, that lie was just
going to fetch her boy if she would only be com-
forted. Over and over lie made the same promise to
the marble, and tenderly kissed and caressed it. If
Sheldon had entertained feelings of bitterness toward
his father for making him an outcast, lhe was amply
avenged in beholding this sight of sorrow. He could
not restrain his tears. The sight of the young man
weeping arrested the madman's notice. He looked
sharply at him for two or three minutes, then began
to mutter to himself " the boy looks like his mother,"
-which was true. This faint dawn of reason gave the
duke some hope that, by visiting his father daily,
11

240


242      THE ROMANCE OF AN IRISH GIRL;
Sheldon might possibly bring him back to possession
of his intellect in the course of time; an opinion in
which his physician coincided. But the visits
which were made, although they seemed to restore a
degree of reason, made the patient more ill, and
finally occasioned a sudden fainting fit, from which
he was only recovered to die. The recognition this
time was complete, inasmuch as Sheldon called him
by the name of ~ and he replied "my son."
Nature was exhausted by the effort. It was some
consolation to the duke that he had, in his one short
glimpse of reason, beheld his son. Sheldon felt this
sad event keenly for a ~short time, and fully forgave
whatever injury he had sustained by his father's for-
mer cruelty.
The duke would now willingly have acknowledged
his grandson and heir, but Sheldon resolutely de-
clined. The most he would accept of service from
his grandfather was the settlement of a small portion
of his proper fortune upon himself, with which he
meant to make comfortable the declining years of
that excellent foster-mother who had been friends,
fortune and family to him. But beside this, the
duke had privately made over a handsome compen-
sation to her for her pecuniary, expenditures on
account of his grandson, and Sheldon found himself,
in spite of his independent disposition, obliged to his
grandfather for a comfortable fortune.
When Allen met him he was ready to return to
America,~ and as full of contempt for the fictitious
refinements of English aristocracy ~as Allen hiins~lf,
who took his turn relating adventures. The story of
Marion Wallace Cunningham and Annie Stewart

OR, LIFE IN TWO WORLDS.        243

was repeated, and a plan made by which they could
be sent to the United States on the return of Shel-
don, who still retained his name of Brown-prefer-
ring its homely and plebeian sound to the more dis-
tinguished but not more honorable one of his grand-
father. Brown would have to wait some little time;
but this lie consented to, being able, he said, to
appreciate the condition of Miss Cunningham, having
learned what acts great men may commit without
jeopardizing their reputations. "The old duke
thinks," said lie, that I am a strange fellow not to
want to remain in England and wear a title and
enjoy the privileges of the aristocracy. But I
thought it would be refreshing to him to see a little
independence for once; beside, it suited me better to
return. The duke thinks our people as eager after
such privileges as themselves, whenever we get any
chance at all. However that may be with others, I
am a republican and a democrat, and never shall
"my lord" my fellow men, nor kneel to one of them
wearing a golden crown."
"It's a melancholy fact, I suspect," answered Allen,
"that too many of our citizens, our ladies in particu-
lar, are taken with the sound of a title, and delighted
to make the acquaintance of a lord, no matter how
depraved in character or dissipated in habits. The
letters of all our travelling Americans are sure to
report how often they have dined with an earl or a
duke, or have been politely noticed by a count or
have obtained a look at the royal family, or any
other equally nonsensical thing, which blows their
contact with the aristocracy of England"


I

244

THE ROMANCE OF AN IRISH GIRL*

"I am sorry to believe jt," said Brown, "for it
takes away the glory of our free and independent
principles to see this abject spirit exhibited. Ameri-
cans know that it' is no credit to a lord to be a lord,
and that the wealth of the aristocracy is the wicked
gain of oppression and monQpoly; therefore, they
ought to exhibit the same pride in being indifferent
to it that they did formerly in going out from it and
setting up a government on different principles. The
duke, whom I am obliged to own as my grandfather,
though he is an aristocrat, reminded me of the same
thing in a conversation not long ago, when, stung by
my rejection of a title, he said I was more tlic,,n,
American, for there was no lack of them to ape
everything English which was in their power to imi-
tate. 'Your ladies,' said lie, 'out-dress the Mar-
chioness of Ely or the Duchess of Sutherland, and, if
it were possible, would have more diamonds than the
queen. If one of our ladies condescends to notice
them, they arc more delighted than they dare ex-
press, except by their faces, which do often betray
them.' I confess I was somewhat ruffled by this sort
of talk, and, would have liked to have defended
A merican ladies, but felt that it was of no use. I
could never convince obstinate self-esteem and arro-
gance on one hand, nor prevent foolish exhibitions
of vanity on tile other."
"The most provoking thing about the English,"
remarked Allen, "is the way they speak of the war
of the Revolution. 'You fancy you have done a
great thing,' they say, 'but it was no such great thing
after all, for if we had been pleased to do so and so,

OR, LIFE IN TWO WORLDS.

245

it would have resulted differently.' Now, aside from
that enormous assertion, I am more vexed with their
seeming to think the one fact of asserting and main-
taining our independence is all we ever have done,
whereas we are a mighty and cultivated nation.
Not so selfishly and individually refined as the Eng-
lish aristocracy, perhaps, but universally and emi-
nently intelligent, energetic, prosperous-not having
as many poor and destItute in the whole length and
breadth of our land as are to be found in the city of
London, right under the noses of parliament and the
queen."
"I took the liberty," said Brown, "of asking the
duke what it was which made the English ladies so
8I~perior to our ladies that there could be any conde-
ecencion in noticing them. I had observed that they
could drink inure ~vine, play more games, and know
more about fast horses than Americans of their sex;
but these were not accomplishments which, in the
estimation of a large portion of the world, entitled
any one, least of all, a lady, to be thought superior.
As for the more strictly womanly graces, I thought
our ladies compared with any in tile world. And as
for courage and devotion, the early history of the
United States testified to that. 'They have some
English blood,' put in the duke. 'Improved by
crossing,' I suggested; and so we quarrelled about
what was, after all, nothing to quarrel about. We
can bear their insolence, and they will have to bear
our independence and naivet~."
"If, when we fought the English, we had been
fighting for balance of po~ver, instead of hearthstones


24G      THE ROMANCE OF AN IRISh GIRL;
and manly rights," said Allen, "they might have
beaten us, for they are savage lighters and had the
numbers to do it with. Or did the, sentiments they
recommend to us now, come from sincere and honest
minds, we might very properly consider them. But
they ~vill have to abolish white slavery before they
prove to us the sin of black bondage; and they will
have to be more liberal and more virtuous, before
they can teach freedom and virtue to us. Why, the
lowest Irish beggar has more humanity than these
aristocrats. Not one of the poorest class would have
abandoned a child in the way you were abandoned,
but would rather have taken it on his back and
begged something for its support."
The young men finally decided that ~s Brown
xvould remain until Miss Cunningham could return
to America with him, lie should take an excursion in
Ireland. In order to make this excursion as profit-
able as possible to the cause adopted by Allen, it was~
proposed that Brown should procure letters from the
duke to the authorities of Dublin, asking permission
to visit the prison and communicate with one of the
prisoners. Allen knew that lie might be recognized
by some one on the look-out for such an attempt, and
that Brown would have a much better chance of suc-
cess, especially if lie caine provided with credentials
from the duke, which he was confident of getting.
But Brown found that it was no mere amusement
to fulfill the task that he had undertaken, of defeating
the cunning and malice of a coyetous aristocracy.
Those who play at the game are in power; and it is
foolishness to struggle against the united authority of

OR, LIFE IN TWO WORLDS.       247

Church and State. Those who take refuge behind it
are entirely unapproachable. The man who is dis-
gusted with politics is zealous in religious matters;
but, as this religion is only an appendix to the poli-
tical policy of England, it is used as a scraper to take
up all that is left of that system.
Sheldon Brown, however', went to Ireland full of
sympathy for the oppressed, and full of confidence in
being able to do something for their relief, in one or
more particular instances, enjoying in anticipation
the pleasure he was about to bestow. With a letter
from the duke to the authorities of Dublin, Sheldon
could see no reason why he should not accomplish
all lie had undertaken. As far as securing their per-
mission to visit and converse with any of the prisoners
was concerned, so far he was successful. But when
lie cams to ask the keeper to be shown the prisoner,
John Woods, he met with a coniplete failure. "Och,
lie is dead shure, God rest his soul !"
"Dead !" echoed Brown.
"Upon me soul, lie's dead," repeated the man, but
in a manner that failed to carry conviction of the
truth of w~iat lie said.
"Very well," answered Brown; "I did not doubt
your word. When did he die, and of what disease,
and where are his remains ?"
The man was confused by some secret conscious-
ness, and only repeated:
"lie's dead, mister, and shure I've not said any-
thing to the contrary."
"Very well, I say again," cried Brown, a little
tartly; "I only asked you to inform me when he


248      THE ROMANCE OF AN IRISH GIRf~;                                OR~ LIFE IN TWO WORLDS.        249

died, and where his remains were put. If you hesi-
tate in telling me, I shall have you arrested."
But the keeper evidently was not able to frame a
plausible answer on the instant, and Brown ~vent for
an officer to assist his memory. At the appearance
of this individual, the frightened keeper, with the
help of another one of the keepers, contrived to stam-
mer out that some men from the north of Ireland had
come and taken Woods away. He thought these
men belonged to the little people (fairies), and he had
heard afterward that the prisoner had died.
"Did he die here or away ?" asked Brown.
"He died here, shure. How would I know he was
dead ?" answered the blunderhead.
"What doctor did he have? Go and fetch him
that I may ask him some questions."
The man, WhO, under the eye of an officer, dared
not disobey~ went for the physician, and soon re-
turned with one, who repeated very clearly the par-
ticulars of the case; still, in a manner, as if lie had
prepared his answers beforehand, and without con-
vincing his questioner that he told the truth. He
repeated the assertion, that the body had been taken
north by some persons who professed to be friends of
the deceased. Brown assured him the case would be
investigated. The physician then suggested that, pos-
sibly, he might have been taken away for dissection;
a hint which the keeper caught at to relate some cor-
responding circumstTauces.
This was Brown's success, over 'which he felt not
only mortified, but det~ply disappointed. Being of a
resolute temper, however, he determined upon going

to the north of Ireland, to see Mr. Woods, John's
father, and if possible get him to set an investigation
on foot. Accordingly, lie wrote to Allen to meet him
at a particular point, as early as possible, as he
wanted his company, and should esteem him a guest
on the journey,'for whose expenses he was responsi-
ble. More discouraged than lie would have liked to
own, he set out, through Mullingar, Longford, and
Enniskillen to iRusnafasnia. At Enniskillen he pro-
posed to await Allen's arrival. Here, he found he
was in time for the assizes, which were then in ses-
sion, and was glad to amuse himself at an Irish trial.
Chancing to look over the clerk's docket, he dis-
coVered, to his great amazement, the name of M. W.
Cunningham, against her mother, Lady Fredonia, for
the recovery of her father's estate. Here, then, was a
new feature of the case, coming out unexpectedly.
He wondered if Allen was advised of it. He set him-
self to work immediately, to get acquainted with Miss
Cunningham's attorney, who, he found, was a Mr.
George McMean, a Scotch gentleman of considerable
ability. From him, he learned that Miss Cunning-
ham had been urged by the captain, and some
other Scotch friends, to undertake the procuring of
her legal rights. They had promised to stand by her
and assist her all it was possible. She was herself weary
of dodging and hiding, like a fugitive from justice,
and felt that she dishonored her father's name by such
a course. if there was any protection in the laws of
her country, she would have it; if there was none,
upon trial, she would be iio worse off than for-
merly, except, indeed, losing the chance of ever get-
11*


OR, LIFE IN TWO WORLDS.        251

250      TIlE ROMANCE OF AN IRISH GIRL;

ting her property in future, in case the decision
should go against her. It was an important step to
take, but she had decided upon it. Under these cir-
cuinstances, Brown shrunk from having' her know of
his efforts in Dublin, and their result. He saw that,
whatever courage she bad would be needed in 'the
coming trial. Therefore, upon being introduced to
her by her attorney, he said nothing about his inter-
est in her affairs; but confessed he was acquainted
with them, through Mr. B. F. Allen; and also re-
lated some portion of his own history, to divert her
mind from its embarrassii~ents. But in this inter-
view, Brown became persuaded that Miss Cunning-
ham did not lack the fortitude necessary to bear~ up
under great disappointments, and was pleased to find
it so, knowing that there were some severe trials of
patience in store for her.
He informed Miss Cunningham that he had been
delegated to escort herself and Annie Stewart, to
America, if she desired to go, as her friend, Mr.
Allen, had concluded to remain longer in Great
Britain. They talked over Allen's adventures in
Ireland, and the singular discovery of Annie Stewart.
Miss Cunningham acknowledged that she had rather
believed in haunted castles, until the serious and
practical turn of Allen's ghost-hunting had destroyed
the illusion, and converted those places into some-
thing more fearful than haunted castles. This had
ruined many a fine romance for her, and made her
more afraid of tAem than ever before when she be-
lieved in ghosts.

CHAPTER XXI.
ALLEN arrived at Enniskillen two or three days
after his friend, and was greatly surprised to find Miss
Cunningham in that place, and still more surprised to
learn her errand. She was rejoiced to see him, and
introduced him to Mr. MeMean, which gentleman
assured him he could see no reason why Marion
should not recover her property. He promised to
make every exertion in the case, and if he was suc-
cessful should be happy to feel that she was at least
removed above the dangers or annoyances of poverty.
As Allen had just arrived from England, Marion
had no questions to ask about Woods, and Allen
thought best not to undeceive her at present. If she
could still have hopes of her lover's freedom and
restoration to her, it was better for the present.
The trial of Miss Cunr~iiigham's cause came on
shortly. Every witness that could benefit Marion
was snbpienaed. Dr. Wilkins came, looking abso-
lutel~ ferocious with anxiety. It was the first inti-
mation of Marion~s existence which he had received
in several years, and in his joy, and in his fear, he
left nothing undone he could think of for her benefit,
in preparation for the trial. His gratitude to Allen
was as earnest as if Marion had been his own child;
and he laughed not a little, besides, at the relation of
his jugglery on shipboard. A character that com-
bined humor and ability with humanity, was the doc~


252      THE ROMANCE OF AN IRI5U GIRL;
tors ideal of a man. His friendship for Allen was
secured for life.
To the report given him of Brown's fruitless efforts
in Dublin, to learn the fate of John Woods, the doe-
toi' listened with contracted brows, and broke forth
frequently with as many oaths as he used to fling at
the heads of the beggars he always helped. He
assured Allen that it was all a scheme to get rid of
Woods, and that lie was probably removed to some
private prison, where there could be no present hope
of finding him. "If St. Patrick had tumbled down
all the infernal old castellated dens on this island, he
would have done better than to banish the snakes
and toads," said the doctor, emphatically.
At the trial were present Bishop Fredonia and his
youngest daughter, and Bishop Stedman and lady,
and the old Lord Elia, and Lord Brumson, beside a
train of others of this class of persons. There, too,
was a crowd of the old tenants, anxious for a glimpse
of their young lady, whom many regarded as dead.
Nor was General Arsdell absent. Just returned from
a long journey in and from America, he had arrived
in time to find the object of some anxious search at
home. But Didy Fredonia was not there. When
the clerk called the nam~s of the parties in the trial,
Bishop Fredonia answered for her ladyship. This
was a great disappointment both to Marion and her
attorney, who wished to make Lady Fredonia iden-
tify her daughter.
The jury being called and sworn, the judge took
his seat with all the ~;ir of dignity a ruler of a world
might wear. The witnesses for Miss Cunningham

OR, LIFE IN TWO WORLDS.       253
were called and sworn. Most of them were poor
persons, tenants on the Cunningham estate-a fact
decidedly unfavorable to Marion's success. The case
was opened by Mr. McMean with ability, displaying
a talent that should have commanded respect. It
was first proven by seemingly competent witnesses
that the plaintiff was Marion Wallace Cunningham,
daughter of Lord Charles Cunningham and that as
such, being of age, she claimedhis real and personal
property. Among the spectators there was consider-
able sensation; but the court scarcely gave its notice
to the hearing of the testimony: it was more agree-
ably engaged observing the crowd of gentle people
present. There was, indeed, a very general represen-
tation of the gentry from all the country round. So
outrageous was it considered that the lord's servant
should be molested in this way, and compelled to
come to trial by a renegade girl, who had been all
over the world, doing what nobody knew, and living
nobody knew where. The contemptuous looks cast
in her direction would have made many a woman
quail, but Marion knew their worth. Her friends
were alarmed for her cause with reason, when they
observed the indifference of judge and jury to her
evidence. But the apathy quickly disappeared when
the bishop's witnesses began to testify. It was sought
to be proven that Miss Cunningham was dead. One
witness swore that seven years ago he discovered Miss
Cunningham sitting by the roadside very ill, and in
a very destitute condition; and that he took her to
his house, where she soon after died. His testimony,
however, had but little connection with the rest; yet


254      Tn~ ROMANCE OF AN IRISH GIRL;                                 OR, LIFE IN TWO WORLDS.       255

it was not questioned. Two ladies, one a daughter of
Mr. Hamilton, and the other the youngest daughter
of Bishop Fredonia, took oath that the plaintiff was
not Marion Wallace Cunningham. Every word these
ladies said was eagerly listened to by the court, and
had they been inspired they could not have com-
manded more attention. This, after the careless way
the plaintiffs evidence ~was heard, exasperated her
party to the utmost. The outrageous swearing of the
defence aroused the indignation of the honest poor on
the Cunningham estate, who longed to see Marion
restored to her rights; and when they were called to
the witness stand a second time, they made their evi-
dence very explicit and positive. For this, some of
the most intelligent were accused of false swearing,
for which crime transportation is the punishment.
Poor Marion's friends were assailed on all sides.
Efforts were made to intimidate her witnesses, and to
sneer down herself; but to all this Marion remained
quietly imidiffi~rent. She was sorry for her attorney,
who had acted nobly, and now seemed sure to fail.
She was indignant, too, at the villainy of her enemies,
l)ut she knew that it was best to suppress all cxlii-
bition of feeling on that score. Dr. Wilkins was the
last witness examined, and then the case went to the
jury.
The judge charged the jury with great solemnity
and dignity. had he been a Mansfield he could not
have had more majesty. Sitting there, with the robes
of office upon his shoulders, with Justice and Wisdom
behind him, he might have defied the iniquity of the
world. Yes, truly, lie had justice always behind him.

He talked eloquently of the Rod of Equity and the
Sword of Justice and Mercy. But these things are no-
where found in Great Bridami, except in the old Lon-
don Tower, among the items of good Queen Bess'
Armory-room. There they are and will remain. The
jury are instructed to decide thus or thus, if things are
s'~ and so. And the foreman of the jury, all affability
and bland smiles, informs his ~ionor they can give in
the verdict without leaving their seats. The word is
passed around to learn if all are prepared for the
decision: but one old sturdy blacksmith, Christy
Craig, gets up and jabbers away about the verdict in
no very intelligible style, until lie is ordered to sit
down by the judge. But the blacksmith reminded
his honor that he was a juryman, and that the
"Devil might take the likes of him, if he ever gave a
verdict such as hAs fellow-jurymen talked of. The
young lady was Lady Marion Cunningham, and there
was no doubt of that."
The judge ordered the jury to their room until they
could agree; and a general indigiiation of the court
fell upon the old blacksmith. This is one 6f the
beauties of allowing a small proportion of the lower
class to sit on a jury. They are nearly always over-
ruled by the majority; who are of "gentler" birth.
The farce is kept up, because it is the lower class who
are judged, as a general thing. But, in this instance,
they have a stubborn old fellow to coerce by argu-
ment or threat. Christy Craig holds out in his deter-
mination to believe in Miss Cunningham to the day
of his death, and the announcement was finally made
that the jury disagreed.

I


256      THE ROMANCE OF AN IRISH GIRL;
That announcement was glad tidings to Marion and
her friends, for it left her counsel honorably beaten,
and herself with a chance for the future. Her
greatest grief was on account of those witnesses who
would be tried for false swearing, and their misfor-
tune Was truly great. God only knew what they
might have to suffer for her.
Nothing remained now but to settle upon the best
plan for Marion to pursue immediately. She still
insisted upon making an effort through some one to
communicate with Woods, and as the time of his im-
prisonment was so nearly expired, to give him an
intimation of her desire to have him come to America.
This Allen promised to do in some way; at the same
time giving it as his opinion that she had better re-
turn to the United States at an early day, as Bishop
Fredonia might find some new mode of persecution if
she remained in his neighborhood.
The report had reached Mai~ion that her mother
had become insane, and this fact invested her lads-
ship with a tender interest in Marion's eyes. It was
easy to guess by what means her mind had been driven
from its balance. It was sufficiently evident that
Bishop Fredonia had not defended Lady Fredonia's
case so strongly with no other motive than to please
her ladyship. He and his were to enjoy the property
which neither Marion nor she was permitted to con-
trol. If her Inother was insane, cruelty had made
her so: but this might not be true, and she might be
another victim to a false imprisonment.
There was nothing she could do to benefit her
mother, however much she wished it, unless she re-

OR, LIFE IN TWO WORLDS.       257

gained and contended for her rights, aud was suc-
cessful; the latter possibility being nearly hopeless.
Everything, even her mother, was in Bishop Fre-
donia's power-a fearful and not unjust punishment
on her ladyship for her former vanity and selfishness,
not to say cruelty. The only conifort to be found in
these facts was the hope that Lady Fredonia would not
have opposed her daughter's suit if she had been able
to have had a voice in the matter. In every shape
the subject assumed there seemed little hope of
Marion recovering her property during the lifetime of
her mother.
Allen was divided between his wish to stay, and his
desire to be with Annie Stewart, for whom he had
conceived a great fondness. General Arsdell said he
was in love, but Allen denied it. He was deeply
attached to her, and wished to oversee her education
and her happiness in every way. By sending her
home to his mother, who was old, he did not know
but he might be inflicting a wearisome and unconge-
nial life upon the tender young girl. Whatever his
feelings wei~ toward his ward, he used great kindness
ai~d discretion in her management, and it was with
brotherly reluctance he consigned her to the care of
his friend Brown to be taken away from him. The
general and doctor laughed at his hesitation, and put
in their protest against his entertaining the thought
of returning to the United States, for a year at least;
they proposed, instead, to make him, during that
time, Marion's special agent in finding a husband.
had Marion known of their bantering talk or known
what was true, that in resolving to remain, Allen


2~i8     TiI~~ ROMANCE OF AN IRISH GWL;
thought more of her than of his own wishes-she
would have decided the matter for him by declining
further service; but she knew really very little at the
time of the wonderful efforts put forth by a fbw per-
sons to unravel the tangled stein of her fortunes.
As Annie was in Scotland, the party decided to go
together to Glasgow, where they found hei', much
unproved in health, and without the expression of
apprehension and sadness which at first marked her
countenan cc. The meeting between the young girl
and her guardian was full of emotions not to be con-
cealed. The tears flowed freely from the beautiful
blue eyes of Annie, while they shone brightly in
Allen's darker ones.
Glasgow pleased our travellers by its contrast with
the Irish towns, in the more independent look of the
l)eople, and their better dress and shelter. Marion
was amazed to see that l4ie girls who worked in the
factories lived in fine six and eight story buildings;
but the captain set her right about the benefit of such
lodgings. "They might properly be called sepul-
chres," he said, "and are more fit for tombs than
dwellings." He promised to take his guests to see
one of these buildings, in the morning after the opera-
tives had gone to their Work. "We will make some
excuse of wanting to look for lodgings, so as not to
offend these people, who are proud if they are poor,
and don't want strangers wandering through their
halls and peering into their rooms. "How much can
a Yankee endure ?" asked the captain laughing, "for,
I assure you, the undertaking is not a trifling one, to
go through one of these places."

OR, LIFE IN TWo wORLDS.       259

The party concluded that, whatever other human
beings endured daily, or nightly rather, they should
find no difficulty in encountering for a short time.
The entrance was by a fine looking hall, from which
stairs led to the second floor. In this hall were
some paintings which Brown paused to admire, while
Allen, who was more rapid in his movements, ran on
up the winding stairs to look about. The captain
laughed as he noticed the American's haste, and cau-
tioned Marion not to go up until Allen returned with
a report of the condition of the premises. "You
perceive," said he, "that I put something in my
mouth to guard against the effects of bad air," and
he gave Brown and Marion some drug to taste for
that purpose.
After a few moments, telling them to wait for him,
lie ran up the stairs, and met Allen at the top, in a
fainting condition, and afflicted with terrible nausea.
"You were in too munch of a hurry, my young friend;
come, let me assist you down the stairs." While
Allen was recovering himself below, the physicians
came in on their morning round, and finding he had
suffered a severe attack of nausea and vomiting, gave
him some medicine upon the spot. But Allen was
satisfied with sight-seeing in that place. Marion was
ordered not to attempt it, and only Brown remained;
whom the physicians took under their charge upon
learning he was an American.
Provided with a plate upon which a disinfecting
drug was burning, he followed the doctors through
their morning round. In spite of their precautions,
the stench was awful. The air was perfectly putrid


260-     THE ROMANCE OF AN IRISH GIRL;
with impurities of dirt and disease. How human
beings ever lived in it, even for one week, was a mys-
tery to Brown. In one small, close room was a sick
mother with four poor, sickly, dirty children, that
had not been ten feet away from their room for days
together. All the filth of this family of little child-
ren, with no one to attend to them, was confined in
the same atmosphere they breathed, and obliged to
be seen and smelt by the sick and helpless mother!
In another room now empty, eight night-caps re-
vealed how many lodged in that small place. There
were bags containing small quantities of oatmeal, or
part of a loaf of brown bread in the same room.
Everywhere they went about the building the same
unhealthy and disgusting spectacles met the eyes of
the fastidious American.
The physicians found seven of the sick that must
be removed to the infirmary; three dying of con-
siunption, to be buried at the public cost. Oh, ye
that boast of England's pride and glory, behold the
condition of these poor creatures and blush with
shame! Their condition is infinitely worse than that
of the poor Irish in open hovels, with a pig in one
corner and a cow in the other, for cow or pig is
refreshing, compared to the companionship of sick
and dying human creatures. This condition of the
poor is one reason why the Scotch laboring classes
are not as numerous as the Irish.
The Scotch are proud and keep up appearances
while they are suffering horribly. Factory girls live
in this way, always keeping a stone wall between
them and the public, in preference to confessing their

OR~ LIFE IN TWO WORLDS.        261

misery in the opeii air. From 80 to 100 are taken
weekly to the infirmaries. One-third or sometimes
one-half of this number recover. Had his friends
wished it, the captain would have escorted them to
the infirmary; but neither Allen nor Brown wished
to see a more advanced chapter of this miserable
story of human suffering. The very mention brought
on a return of Allen's sickness, who whimsically
declared that whereas the doctor's drugs had never
been able to make him vomit, he could now produce
that effect in himself at any moment by thinking of
the Glasgow lodging house for factory operatives!
It is a strange and shocking thought that people,
with so much pride and public spirit, will allow their
sons and daughters to be born, live, and die sur-
rounded by such circumstances, yet make no effort
to better their condition. Could they be made to
realize the magnitude of the evil, perhaps they might
be aroused to action; but the difficulty is in making
them realize it. Use has made them satisfied. The
doctrine that God makes the rich man rich, and the
poor man poor, enslaves their faculties, and the peo-
ple do not know that they might rise up and be~er
their condition. The sort of teaching they get makes
it something sacred to bear the sorrows of a blind
Bartimeus, or a Mary Magdalene, because Christ
sought out and salved such as these. This~is the con-
solation of the sufferers; while the benevolence of
the rich sets. theni aside for Christ to take care of,
temporarily as well as spiritually. His sayings,
"Blessed are the poor in spirit, for they shall inherit
the kingdom of Heaven 'p-" Blessed are they that


262      TIlE ROMANCE OF AN IRISH GIRL;
mourn, for they shall be comforted "-" Blessed are
the meek," etc., are put to strange uses. Not as corn-
fort to those from whom suffering cannot be averted,
but as apologies for inflicting so~'rows upon the poor,
in the charitable hope they may thereby secure the
everlasting reward. God grant that they may!
Allen, whose eyes were opened to perceive some
of these perversions of Gospel teachings, compared
them to an improvement made upon "Servants obey
your masters," by a down-south preacher in the
United States, who added to the original clause-
"and don't steal your mistresses' chickens." But
})reaching up Magdalenism is a more serious affair.
Because Christ cast seven devils out of one such per-
son and made her fit for society again, is no reason
why others should be encouraged to go through the
same experience to arrive at the same result. When
such a principle is encouraged, as it is here, the
IMiagdalenes are much superior in rank to the honest
factory girls, because they are objects of special in-
terest to all classes.

OR, LIFE IN TWO WORLDS.       263

CHAPTER XXII.
TuE Americans were amused at a subject of discus-
sion nmong the people of Glasgow, with reference to
a new Free Church being built there by contribution.
It appeared that some American slaveholders had
visited the city, and contributed generously to the
church-fund, as is their custom generally. But, upon
mature reflection, tIme goo d people of Glasgow doubted
the propriety of putting the product of slave labor
into the house of God. Others, again, thought that,
since the money had been accepted, it was too late to
raise scruples about it, and objected to insulting the
douor~ by sending it back. The discussion grew into
excitement. Some persons went so far as to paint
in red, on the front side of the church, "The Blood
of Slaves !" This last appeal to the prejudices of the
people produced infinite confusion among the church
people.
When the captain appealed to Allen and Brown,
they said it came rather ungraciously from the
mother country, who gave them the trade and per-
severed in it herself so long as she held the colonies,
to be now reproving them for it. For one hundred
and forty years the infant nation was fed on the milk
of African slavery, and it was too late now to think
of weaning it. Besides, there could be no benefit
derived from following English examples with regard
to the negro. In the Indies the planters hold on to

I


264      THE ROMANCE OF AN IRISH GIRL;
their lands until they are worthless, rather than allow
a negro to become a landholder, while, in America,
a free black man can accumulate property as well as
a white man.
Lord Benton, a friend of the captain's, was very
indignant at this plain talk, and denied the truth of
what had been stated with regard to British influence
on the blacks; but the facts came home too thick and
fast for him to withstand. The compensation free
blacks receive in the British islands is such that they
can never become anything but slaves ii~ reality;
while the United States pays as much for good black
labor as any other, and their relative standing in
society is proportionally affected by it.
"But I am not arguing for slavery," said Allen to
his lordship; "I only want it understood that the
subject has been misstated. The negro in America,
even in a state of bondage, is not worse off than the
laboring classes in England, Scotland and Ireland."
"What! you do not mention the poor of Scotland
in that connection? Why, they are better off than
the same class anywhere else in the world," ex-
claimed Lord Benton, angrily.
"If they are, then God pity the rest!" put in Shel-
don Brown. "I visited the abodes of your factory
girls."
"Oh, - the factory girls! What do you sup-
pose we have to do with these people who come out
of lanes and alleys? We have established infirma-
ries and hospitals enough for this class; what else is
there to do, if we provide them with medical atten-
dance and a place to die decently in ?"

I

OR, LWF~ IN TWO WORLDS.        265

"You can take measures to prevent so many of
them going to these places," answered Brown.
"This is work for republicans to do. The English
are contending for the general liberty of the world
and the greatest good of mankind. Individual in-
terests cannot be compared with national honors and
national glory. The true Englishman feels that; but
you, who have none of the noble blood of England
in your veins, cannot properly appreciate the senti-
meut, of ~
"I do not know why 'of course,'" answered
Brown, with some spirit. "If i[ could drain out
what aristocratic blood there is in my veins, I would
willingly part with it, and consider myself a better
man."
"What, are you not an American ?" asked his
lordship.
"Yes, as much so as sentiment and habit can make
me, against the influence of the bad blood of the
nobility of this country, which poisons my veins. I
would give much to be a native American."
Lord Benton talked a little more considerately of
the condition of the poor, and named the benevolent
institutions erected for their relief in Great Britain
with greater respect, after learning that one of his
auditors boasted noble blood, and scorned it, too.
He spoke of a school provided for the education of
servants as one means of benefiting the poor.
"But why not extend that education, and make
those who have talent fit for something better than
service ?"
"Because we do not wish to elevate these classes
12


266      T~E ROMANCE O1~ AN IRISH GIRL;
uiitil they aspire to mix with the nobility, which they
would be sure to do."
"How are these schools for the training of servants
supported ?"
"By the government."
"So you tax the poor to pay for educating them-
selves for your service? That is a very convenient
arrangement," remarked Brown, sarcastically. "Why
do you not send us some of these educated servants ?"
"We have use for those at home," replied his lord-
ship.
"But do none of these servants ever get promoted,
or are they always kept in the same place in soci-
ety ?"
Lord Benton explained the degrees of promotion in
servitude which males might enjoy; and that females
do not aspire to any anything above the usual ad-
vancement in the duties of the household, which is
equal to their highest ambition.
"Do you never think of the necessity of renewing
the blood of the nobility by marriage with more
common people ?" asked Sheldon. "Are you not
afraid of the consequences of this constant intermar-
riage? Every cattle-raiser understands the principle
of breed-crossing, while the English aristocracy ever-
lastingly marry ~
"It would never do to intermarry with the com-
moners. When once we do that, with all this liberty
of speech and the press which we enjoy, the govern-
ment of England would go to pieces directly."
"And so it will have to, some day ;" said Sheldon,
seriously. "There is too much hypocrisy and oppres-

OR~ LIFE IN Two wORLDs.        267

I

sion woveii in the system, for it to stand against time
light which Christianity and the knowledge of the
Gospel are shedding abroad in time world. The birth-
right of all God's creatures will be restored to them
in time, as the ceaseless struggles of nations against
despotism, show conclusively.
While Lord Benton and Sheldon Brown were walk
ing and talking, Brown observed that he was watched
by a person who seemed to wish to speak with him.
Excusing himself he fell behind the party to give the
man a chance to approach him.
The man was evidently embarrassed, and hardly
had confidence to improve the opportunity offered.
Tie was peculiarly attractive in appearance, being
tall, well-proportioned, and handsome; but his hag-
gard eyes and extreme paleness, showed recent
acquaintance with suffering. When lie addressed
Brown he seemed overcome with diffidence, and for
some time could not make his errand understood; a
difficulty out of which the cool, off-hand manner of
the young American in no wise helped him. But when
Brown had heard his story, it was hard to refuse his
request, which was, to be taken to America, with the
promise on his part of paying his expenses back, if he
lived to earn the money.
It seemed, from his account of himself that he was
the son of a Birmingham merchant, who was so unfor-
tunate as to fail; for a failure in England is a misfor-
tune from which men seldom if ever recover. Their
only alternative is to take lodgings in a garret, from
which they go either to the poor-house or church-
yard-~or first to one, and then the other. At the


OR, LIFE IN TWO WORLDS.        269

268

THE ROMANCE OF AN I1~1SH GIRL

time of Mr. Fleming's failure, his son was paying his
addresses to a beautiful young lady, with a handsome
income, and the marriage was talked of between the
parents of the young people. But the disaster in Mr.
Flerhing's business put it quite out of the question
with the young lady's father, who instantly cut off
the connection, and advertised his daughter as being
worth so much property. This step, so significant,
alarmed the lovers, and they very foolishly contrived
to elude parental vigilance and elope. Young Flem-
ing flattered himself that, by the aid of his wife's
income and his own knowledge of business, he should
be able to make a respectable living in trade, which
very possibly he might have dome. But the enraged
father brought his daughter home, and charged Flem-
ing ~4ith abducting her; for which he was tried and
sentenced to five years' imprisonment.
Upon obtaining his liberty, at the expiration of
that time, he learned that his wife, and a child he
had never seen, were banished from the country; his
wife to New York, his child he knew not where
report said it had been placed in an asylum for illegiti-
mate children, in Dublin, where the inmates had their
name and unlawful birth branded upon their person.
This precaution is used to keep pure the English
blood, which abhors illegitimacy! Disaffected grand-
parents, as in this case of Flenming's child, often dis-
pose of children in this way; and the mark upon
them prevents their recovering property by law.
Poor Fleming had gone to Dublin without finding
his child, and was now anxious to go to the United
States. The account he gave, revealed to Sheldon a

new phase of sin. Gracious God, when will thou
condescend to stop the oppression of thy poor!
Though Brown had no use for a ~ s services
himself, he consented to help this person get to New
York, and promised to find him employment, if pos-
sible. The poor fellow was half wild with delight at
the prospect; so he was set at work at once to get
ready, lest in his joy he should really become insane.
Our Americans found less true liberty and more
real suffering in Scotland, than they expected to find.
Consequently they left Glasgow with less regret than
if this truth had not made itself evident to them.
Allen had many directions to give Marion and Annie,
about what to do, where to write to him, etc. The
captain thought it occupied a great deal of his time
to impress the recollection of these things on their
minds! But the captain's ridicule had no efit to
lessen his devotion to his young ward, who truly had
become as the apple of his eye for preciousness.
When Brown introduced Mr. Fleming to Allen,
and gave him an outline of his history, Allen was
confounded at the accumulation of evidence against
the government and society of the country. Here
were four persons in one party, all victims one way
and another of the same instjtutions-the institutions
of a nation that is said to have enjoyed liberty longer
and more steadily than any other.
" Oh," says a doctor of divinity, "time nation
enjoys free speech, because 'Punch' ridicules Roy-
alty at pleasure; and Bright and Cobden say Russia
is right, and England wrong, with perfect impunity."
Another evidence of freedom is, that a Russian agent


270      THE ROMANCE OF AN IRISH GIRL;
at London daily telegraphs news to St. Petersburg!
Immense condescension, truly! What can the nation
do with the audacious "Punch," or with Bright and
Cobden? She knows well enough ifiat her best
policy is to let such men alone, because they arc
dangerous antagonists when stirred up to speak their
minds.
But there was no more time for talking or thinking
politics: everybody was ready, and the time to sail
had arrived. Our party went on board very well
satisfied with every arrangement except that of leav-
ing Allen behind. The passengers came crowding on,
the first bell rung-there were adicus and tears and
hand-pressures. The second bell rung-Allen jumped
ashore, and handkerchiefs waved to him from the
steamer, while he stood benuinbed with a sudden
sense of loneliness, almost of desolation. The steamer
was already almost out of sight d own the river, when
Allen was startled by a hand on his shoulder. Turn-
ing, he saw his friend Hall, who had arrived just in
time to miss the steamer. This was a pleasant meet-
ing on both sides. Mr. Hall, with some other Ame-
ricans, had been looking around in Scotland for a few
days, and now, since they were left, concluded to
continue their wanderings a little longer, inviting
Allen to join them. This Allen consented to for a
short time: but, as he had made up his mind what he
should do in Ireland, he was anxious to be off.
There is much similarity of manners between
Scotchmen and Americans. They both have the
same cordiality of manner with strangers, and the
same willingness to learn all that may be inquired

OR~ LIFE IN TWO WORLDS.          271

I

into concerning the personal history of a new ac-
quaintance. Gould they make themselves readily
understood, there would be a great deal of talking
done when the two nations meet. Their themes of
conversation having so many similar points, the inte-
rest would seldom flag.
Ben Lomond was the place selected for the ~rst
pilgrimage of the new travelling party to which
Allen found himself attached. Allen's friend, the
captain, and other Glasgow gentlemen, urged theni
to visit the spot where William Wallace was sleeping
when John Montieth betrayed him into the hands of
King Edward. This spot is one of peculiar interest
and abhorrence to a Scotchman. He hates it, and con-
siders it unholy ground, at the same time that he
preserves the recollection of it most religiously.
When they begin to talk of Wallace or Bruce their
enthusiasm knows no bounds. Or when they talk of
the nobility who were preferred to him, or of the
man who betrayed him, their hatred cannot be de-
scribed. To a person interested in displays of human
feeling, the sudden transition from a love and admni-
ration which brings tears to their eyes, to a settled
hatred and gloom, occasioned by the mention of these
different characters, would afford an exciting exhi-
bition. It is a passage from ecstasy to despair, from
love to desperation.
But so much time was alicady spent that Allen
felt like making short visits. Gen. Arsdell and Dr.
Wilkins were trying to make some plan by which
Allen could be introduced into society in Ireland.
Could Lady Fredonia be seen by Allen they felt sure


272      TILE ROMANCE OF AN IRISH GIRL;
he would be able to reinstate good feeling between
herself and Marion. They had their own good
reasons for not believing that her ladyship was
insane. If Allen was well versed in the superstitious
beliefs of the country he would have a powerful in-
fluence to wield, together with his powers of ventri-
loquism and mesmerism. A good ban8kee, made up
of a frightful-looking little old woman, hired to
warble melancholy ditties around the house, to warn
the inmates of some coining calamity, might be ~nade
to do good service in some instances for, though it is
pretended such fairies are no longer believed in, and
the Scotch and English who live in Ireland are
ashamed to own their regard for them, almost every
house that can afford it has its fairy. They are afraid
to speak of them except as the "good people," and
never touch an ant-hill.
The general and doctor were not quite free from
a little of this feeling, though they had the courage
and sense to resist it. To resist superstition when
surrounded by it requires constant watchfulness, and
is more difficult than might at first appear. But,
with or without their tendency to a national trait,
they both were true Irish gentlemen-impulsive to a
fault, because they have warm hearts, strong heads
and great determination of character.
At Ben Lomond the Americans were having very
fine sport and getting laughed at by their Scotch
friends for their bravery in attempting to explore the
mountain without a guide, and tJieir want of success
in the adventure. Believing in their instinctive
knowledge of woods and wildernesses, and thinking

OR~ LIFE IN Two wORLDS.        273

it would be very pleasant to spend a little time alone
with God and Nature, without a stranger to listen to
every chance word that might be dropped, they un-
dertook the ascent in the morning of a very fine day.
Entering on the west side of the mountain, they pur-
sued a course toward the north, as that course kept
them in the shelter of the woods; all the time con-
gratulating themselves upon their sagacity, and think-
ing it perfectly easy to retrace their steps. After
climbing and walking until they were tired, they
lunched and laid down to refresh themselves with
sleep. Upon frwaking, they were at a loss about the
time, as their watches were all left behind for fear of
losing or breaking them in some chance tumble; and,
as the sun was hid by the mountain, on the east side
of which they now were, there was no way ofinform-
ing themselves. They were surprised, however, to
find it growing dark soon after they commenced to
descend. On coming to a path, some of the party
disputed the direction. In this manner they became
sepai~ted, each going in the direction lie belh~ved the
true one. Not one of them succeeded iii getting off
the mountain that night. It was no great subject of
regret, however, as each had an opportunity of be-
holding the terror of Ben Lomond-its spirits of mist.
Well might the superstitious or fanciful be overcome
with awe at these vapory shapes. Now they are
soldiers, dashing along and charging on other hosts.
Now they are solemn shapes of gigantic proportions,
stalking over the mountain to. some ghostly gather-
ing; and now they are towering monuments. The
situation of the tourists was any thing but pleasant,
I 2*


274      THE ROMANCE OF AN IRISH GIRL;                                    OR, LIFE IN TWO WORLDS.        275

long before morning came to their relief, which at
last it did, finding them thoroughly drenched with
moisture, and pretty well fatigued. The sunrise
looked doubly beautiful to them, as it was at once a
glorious spectacle, and an indication to them on which
side of the mountain they were. After some further
blundering, the party got together once more, and
were glad to meet some shepherds sent to bring them
down from the mountain by their Scotch friends,
who laughed well at their misadventure, but provided
them with a warm fire and a good breakfast. Every
effort was made to save them from the effects of the
dew, which, if dried by the sun, it i~ believed, will
produce sickness and probably death. They were
made to drink freely of whisky, and toasted between
blankets, which, after the fatigues ~f the last t~venty-
four hours, was no disagreeable treatment, producing,
as it did, eight hours of sound sleep. The innkeeper
took a pride almost amounting to enthusiasm in the
management of his patients, and truly he provided
well for them.
When they were once more ready for action, they
found a large number of Scotch gathered in the inn
to see and converse with the Americans, and to ask
after relatives in the United States. Among these
was a McDonald, a nephew of the McDonald who
figured with general Marion in the Revolution. At
first he was not very communicative, and watched
with sarcastic eye the eager interest of the others.
But when the Americans spoke of his uncle's merits
he fired up immediately. The conversation became
animated, and McDonald wept, prayed or swore

I

according as the manner or matter of the converse
tion varied. No anecdote of either Marion or his
uncle but was known to him. When asked if he
had ever been in the United States, he said-" No,
and I never shall be. I am going to stick to this
Scottish soil, which so many are deserting and
leaving to be run over by the English. if I cannot
have liberty here, J will not have it anywhere. The
true sons and daughters of Scotland will never desert
her. If they go, who will rein am to strike off the
tyrant's head when God gives the opportunity ?"
"What," cried Hall, "you do not call the queen
a tyrant? You pray for her every Sabbath in~ your
churches, and ask God to bless her."
"Yes, we do that; but a blessing in ay even-be a
curse if the heart is not in it. If we say, 'God bless
you,' meaning that 'I eaHnot,' the benediction can
be of little worth, and this I assure you, is the way
in which many of the queen's subjects pray for her.
The people of Ireland and Scotland are not so stupid
as to wish sincerely for the well-doing of a power
that is crushing them so death, except in a few fa-
vored cases. For myself I admit my insincerity and
the bitter sarcasm of my heart when I join in the
public prayers for the queen's welfare."
Not so felt a Jumper, one of a sect of Welsh
enthusiasts, who happened to be present; he blessed
the queen sincerely, and remonstrated with the
ungraceful Scotchman who would feel otherwise.
The "Holy Jumpers," as they call themselves, found
their practices upon the parts of Bible history which
tells of David dancing before the Ark; and of the


276      THE ROMANCE OF AN IRISh GIRL;                                     OR, LIFE IN TWO WORLDS.       277

lame man that leaped and praised God. Upon this
broad foundation they whirl and caper, until a pro-
fuse perspiration takes place, when they believe the
holy Spirit is upon them; and this constitutes the
crisis of their enthusiasm, as well as the completion
of their Christian duty "a religion less objection-
able than many another," said McDonald. "~A mi-
nister is excusable for preaching anything in itself
harmless; but not for setting forth the tormenting
doctrine that God ordains whatever England sees lit
to order with regard to her outraged subjects."
There was much feeling among the Scotch, appa
gently, concerning the way in which the govern-
ment provided for the poorer. classes; and much
admiring sympathy expressed for the more liberal
American spirit of government. It transpired in the
course of conversation that Allen was going to Ire-
land, when some one remarked that lie "had better
look out, for every hedge was lined with pikes and
blunderbusses." "An' it's yourself that's a liai',"
muttered an Irishman who had mixed with the crowd
unnoticed. "Bad luck to the mother's 50fl of them
that lays his hand on an American. Troth, they'll
give the best of their store, an' ye'11 be deserving of
it sure."
Allen slapped Pat affectionately on the shoulder,
and promised to give the Irish a chance to show
their good xviii, while secretly smiling at the recol-
lection of his fp~mer reception in that notable island.

CHAPTER XXIIJ.
Tm~ Americans found time pass very pleasantly at
the little inn by Ben iLoinoiad. They were regaled
with Scotch music in all its native charms and pecu-
liarities. Their musicians confined themselves to the
native poets chiefly, and treated the tourists to bal-
lads in regular minstrel style. The frank manners,
plain, cordial conversation, made these efforts tt
entertainment very agreeable. The dignity of the
musician was not lost when lie sang in noble strains
of his beloved country, upon the very soil lie cele-
brated. When, condescending to make inountebanks
of themselves, some lazy fellows take to the streets
of cities with their hand organs or bagpipes, degrad-
ing the name they bear, it is then the "strolling
musician" is a bore.
Our party were about taking leave of Ben Loinond
when the arrival of another set gave a different direc-
tion to their thoughts. The new arrival were English
gentlemen, on their way to St. Fillan's, at the foot of
Loch Earn, where the Highlands Society hold the
yearly celebration of their gaines. Allen was rather
disconcerted on recognizing General Larubert among
the Englishmen. He would rather not have met
him, fearing th'~t~the events of the sea voyage might
have lost their seriousness; and the old General
might have some suspicions of the trick practiced on
hi mu. But, fortunately, lie was altogether pleased to


278      TILE ROMANCE OF AN IRISh GIRL;
meet his young friend, whom he treated with great
cordiality and insisted on taking to the games with
him. Allen being unable to make an excuse with-
out betraying some of his plans to the sharp old gen-
eral, allowed himself to be persuaded, if the invita-
tion was to be extended to the whole American
party, which it was.
On the way, the general inquired, with interest,
about Miss Cunningham-denouncing the course pur-
sued by her persecutors with unction; but Allen,
though strongly tempted to confide the whole story
to his friend, was uncertain of the wisdom of such a
thought, and evaded saying much about Miss Cun-
ningham, except that she had returned to the United
States.
To Allen, the spectacle he had come to witness was
full of a strange kind of interest. It was a scene so
unlike the every day, practical routine of amuse-
ments common to the whole world, that lie was
enchanted. It gave him, too, quite a vivid idea of
Highland life and character, though he could not
l)elp thinking it must be in its most alluring phase.
The ground chosen for the games was spread with
tents for the accommodation of the nobility of that
region, and was quite surrounded by a concourse of
strangers. The fine amphitheatrical hill rising back
of the tents nearly four hundred feet, was covered
over with the fresh looking Scotch women, and rosy
lassies in tartans, and young men in hose and phili-
begs. Truly it was a lively spectacle. The prizes
announced were, for the best performance of the
pibroch, a bagpipe, full mounted in silver with

OR, LIFE IN TWO WORLDS.       279
inscriptions. The second prize for the same perfor-
mamice was a splendidly mounted dirk-which, it was
generally supposed, the winner felt like using on the
winner of the bagpipe.
The name of McMullen was shouted by the herald,
and forth walked the Highland McMullen, in bonnet
and plaid. The broad chequered sash that passed
over his left shoulder was drawn down and tied
under his right arm. His kilt of plaid, reaching to
the knee, was richly belted and furnished with a
pouch worn in front, and ornamented by two hand-
some pistols and a dirk hanging from the belt. His
well developed limbs were incased in striped hose,
coining down into an elegant shoe fastened with a
silver buckle. This picturesque looking personage
began by performing a sort of lament, which it must
be acknowledged, had an execrable sound to Ameri-
can ears, and met with no particular enthusiasm
except from the Scotch ; to which their native instru-
mnent is a reminder of their youth, their homes, their.
history and their heroes. To those, however, who
have no national feeling connected with it, themusic
is horridly monotonous. The very sight of the bag-
pipe to a stranger, who sees in it only a huge wind-
bag having four long awkward legs or pipes, is hidi-
crous in the extreme. Mi'. Hall whispered to Allen
that it was "strange what an immense amount of
influence antiquity has in forming our Opinions."
But McMullen's performance being at an end, he
retired, and the second competitor came on with a
very handsome bow to the ladies. Indeed, his bow-
ing and smiling was the best of his effort; inasmuch


280      THE ROMANCE OF AN IRISH GIRL;                                     OR, LIFE IN TWO WORLDS.        281

as no one but a Scoteliman could have told his per-
formance from the preceding one. The costume was
very similar, the strut the same, and, for all any one
could tell, the tune the same, also. Aspirants for honors
continued to follow one another until tile patience of
the strangers was exhausted; but the prizes were
finally awarded, when McMullen took the bagpipe.
Then caine the herald announcing that con
for the prize for throwing the sledge-hammer would
appear. At that cry tilere was a clearing away of a
space, while several men, stripped for the contest,
entered tile area. The 1)rizes for the feat of casting
tile sledge were mere trifles; and when the sport
commenced, Allen felt disposed to sneer at this boy's
play. But when tile tall stalwart fellow who had
the first throw, cast 1the hammer weighing twenty-
two pounds to a distance of sixty feet, he began to
look on with interest. After him came another who
made a great effort, but fell short of the first one.
Then came a slender, delicate-looking young man,
rather appearing as if he had better be kept out of
the crowd, which might run over him. Every one
pitied him for making the attempt, while a general
murmur of disapprobation greeted his appearance.
He picked up the sledge very quietly and cast it two
feet beyond the first mark~ This easy success aroused
the hero of sixty feet, and, as lie had five throws, he
insisted on outdoing the pitiful dwarf who had
excelled him. His effort, however, was a failure, for
he fell short of his first mark. Again the Ican, light,
little fellow, who had distanced him, took up his sta-
tion for another throw. Fixing his left foot slightly

[

ill advance of his right, lie clenched the ~sledge handle
and fixing his eye on the distance as if he would
annihilate it, drew himself up for the effort. All was
intense excitement. "Aweel and he's a braw man,"
ejaculated an old Scotchman beside Allen. "That's
a fact !" responded the fascinated Yankee, never
moving his eyes. Whiz! went tile twenty-two poun-
der. "'Sixty four feet and eight inches !" was heard
after a moment, and the throng gave one tremendous
shout of applause. After this no one seemed inclined
to try for the prize, which was awarded to the young
victor.
The next game was one in which an iron ball,
weighing twenty-two pounds, like the hammer, is
taken in the left hand and shoved forward, as it were,
the hand not being drawn back as in throwing. The
competitors for distinction in tilis game showed a vast
amount of strength and skill. The second trial was
made by a young nobleman, who, by concentrating
all his power at the right moment, sent the ball
thirty-six feet-the greatest distance ever gained. The
price was considered his, it being only a silver-
mounted snuff niull.
Aften this, caine the tossing of the cabas.-a piece
of wood eighteen feet long by six feet at one end and
four at the other. The performer in this game raises
the cumbersome thing to his shoulder, and with both
hands under the smallest end, endeavors to cast it
forward and make it turn a somerset. The act
requires such immense exertion that a feeling of pain
takes away from time pleasure of the spectators in
beholding it. Only on&amp;person succeeded in turning


282      Tim ROMANCE OF AN IRIS!! GIRL;
the cabas, and~he, everybody felt, must have suffered
by it. however, his injuries whatever they were,
were healed by receiving a silver brooch.
Next in order was the shooting from guns, some
hitting the target at seventy, some at eighty and
others at a hundred yards. While this was going
on, the ladies took luncheon. After luncheon, came
the dancing. Four ladies took tIme stage and danced
the highland reels, the successful bagpipes playing,
and three other ladies being judges. The first prize
was a I)air of silver buckles, the second a highland
plaid. The (lancing really immerited this reward.
Following the reels, was the sword dance, or Gille
Calhim. Two claymores were laid upon the stage so
that they crossed each other in the middle and lay
at right angles. When these were arranged, a good-
looking young highlander ascended to the stage, and
touched his bonnet gracefully to his fair judges.
Taking his' position to join the commencing bagpipe
music, he passed once around the swords, pausing at
their hilts and points, addressing to theni significant
looks full of coquetry, as much as to say, "tIme ladies
see us," and then began the dance. It would be very
difficult to describe this performance. No spider's web
was ever more intricately woven than the web of this
sword dance. In and out, round and round, with
crossings and curves innumerable and perplexing;
the effort of the dancer being, to execute all with deli-
cacy and grace, without once touching either of the
claymores. Our young Highlander succeeded in the
dancing to the admiration of all, but was so unfom
tunate as to touch one of the swords.

OR~ LIFE IN TWO WORLDS.        283

The exercise with swords, in which Joh1m McGregor
made his sword sound five times on the breast of his
antagonist, without hurting anything but his feelings,
however, was the last exercise on the list. The last
candidate for prizes was among the shepherds; the
one who could bring the highest testimonials of char-
acter for tIme longest time was declared the hero.
This time it was an 01(1 man, whose credentials made
hum out more faultless thami his neighbors, for forty
years. The al)l)lause following this announced emit,
was different fm'omn that which rewarded the other
victors-not being manifested by shouts or cheers,
but by the long approving gaze of the crowd after
the venerable Christian.
The throng now Separated this way and that; the
ladies going home, the Society repairing to aim inn,
where a grand dinner was prepared, with l)leIlt.y of
good liquors. The American party were invited to
join them. Allen was m~musecl in spite of his dislike
to dinners of this sort. The toasts were good and free
from party feeling, or bitterness of any kind. As the
wine began to flow pretty freely, all restraint was at
an end. A bumper was filled to the ladies, who had
graced the occasion, which was drnnk standing upon
chairs. The chief had one foot on the table and one on
a chair, while he held 'up his glass and called for three
cheers in Gaelic. This " opened the ball," and the
effort seemed then to be who could make the most noise.
The lairds laid aside their dignity, and sung Highland
songs with spirit. Dancing ~~'as intro(hlced-whjchi,
however, did not go off as well as if ladies had been
their partners. It was proposed, at last, to go out and


281      TILE ROMANCE OF AN IRISh GIRL;

bring in the rustic lassies of the neighborhood to join
them in a good country dance-a plan which was
effected after some difficulty, from the hesitation on
the part of the "bonnie lassies." Then everything
went on famously. Lords forgot their titles, but
girls did not forget their sweethearts. One
country
nobleman not being able to find a partner in the
room, went to the kitchen and brought in the cook-
a woman weighing about two hundred pounds, who
danced as lightly as the best of them, very much to
her partner's gratification. A Seotchman's dancing
is characterized by the same energy and vivacity
which distinguishes his actions otherwise, and is by
no means an un(rraceful exhibition. But this merri-
ment caine to an end, as all such rejoicing will.
Allen still was thinking of his duties unfulfilled, wish-
ing to know how to address himself to the accom-
plishment of them.
The morning after the festival he was idly watch-
ing the changing cloud-shapes from a window of the
inn, when his attention was attracted by hearing two
Englishmen discussing the affairs of Bishop Fredonia,
and expressing considerable sympathy, that a person
in his station had been obliged to undergo the inortifi-
catiomi of a trial by jury, while a member of the
House of Lords. A provision made by Parliament
that a peer, or peeress, either in her own right or by
marriage, cannot be brought to answer to a civil
charge, or be tried except before his peers or her
peers, had not sufficed to protect the bishop from
this indignity, because it was understood he had no
noIle blood. He was not, really, on a footing with

284

OR, LIFE IN TWO WORLDS.

285

his wife, who was a peeress in her own right as well
as by marriage, although lie was a bishop and a meni-
her of the house of Lords. This was esteemed a
great trial for the bishop's saintly humor, and it was
feared it might hurt his influence with the Irish ,a
tIming to be regretted, as he was a very thorough maim
with the "rebellious" poor. The bishop was sincerely
condoled with by these good churchmen and aristo-
crats, and Miss Cunningham very much blamed for
not bringing her case before the house of Peers. It
is true that the peer is not required to give his ver-
dict upon oath, like other men it being presumed
that the nobility of his blood will compel him to truth
and justice, not only in ordinary matters among his
fellow peers, but in chancery cases. Miss Cunning-
ham is in duty bound to consider the dignity of the
Church, and the House of Lords. No matter if the
bishop does sit by laying claim to some pretended
barony, in which there is no more reality than there
would be in pretending to noble blood!
Allen learned, by the conversation he overheard,
that the wife of Bishop Fredonia was insane, and
~there was talk of having some one appointed to
examine into her condition. The appointment of
sin ii person or persons, as well as the appointment of
s~mne one to have the care of her, is in the chancel-
lor's power. The hearing of all this opened Allen's
eyes to a new idea. What if the persons set apart
for such offices should be picked men, in the power
or confidence of the bishop! He fancied lie saw the
trouble apprehended by the bishop; which was that
Lady Fredonia should convince her examiners that


286      TIlE ROMANCE OF AN IRISH GIRL;                                 OR~ LIFE IN TWO WORLI)S.

she was perfectly sane, and lie thereby lose the con-
trol of' her property.
General Lainbert was another who had listened to
this conversation: and as it furnished some connect-
ing links with what he already knew, he questioned
Allen to find out how much of this singular history
was known to him. The opportunity for getting
counsel was too good to be lost; and Allen confided
his business connection with this history to his old
friend, asking his advice. This was a fortunate stroke
of policy, as General Lambert was able to put him on
tIme right track at last. While General Arsdell and
Dr. Wilkins were wearying their souls with conj cc-
ture and impatience, afraid to do anything them-.
selves for fear of making matters worse, since now
that the trial was past, Marion's friends ~~ere well
known-and wondering what had befallen our young
American, he was coolly plotting for the subjugation
of the foe with an old hand at strategy. But Allen
did not undertake his mission without some mis-
givings. He had already shed some blood on Irish
soil, and did not know but lie might be called upon
to shed yet more. His chances are better unencum-
bered by the two ladies who were the cause of his
former trouble, but his intentions this time are of such
an audacious nature that it will be great generalship
which takes him through in safety.
Allen smiled as General Lanibert assured him he
could not fail, but dared not, of course, reveal what
lie might tell of former exploits in which the general
was the victim. The Yankee adventurer had acquired
considerable character since his first entrance of the

steamer at Quebec. The scenes he had passed
through, and the responsibility so unexpectedly
devolving upon him a~ a result of his adventures,
had sharpened his intellect and toughened his manly
courage considerably.


g      THE ROMANCE OF AN IflISH GIRL;                                OR, LIFE IN TWO WORLDS.       2S9

CHAPTER XXIV.
ALLEN bid adieu to his friends, English and Ameri-
can, and returned to Glasgow, sailing from thence to
Londonderry. Great is the interest which clings to
the massive stone walls of Derry. These walls are
sacred in the eyes of the true Protestant, as having
stood between his religion and extermination for so
long, at the memorable siege when James the Second
and his French allies persecuted them with every
form of horror. No instance of heroism recorded
excels that of the miserable Protestants who died of
starvation under these walls, rather than weaken the
resources of the already famishing garrison by accept-
ing a mouthful of their scanty food. And no instance
of hellish cruelty exceeds that of the fiends who
drove these poor wretches here in droves, compelling
them to remain at the point of the bayonet as a trial
and temptation to the besieged to make them surren-
der. At Londonderry, above all other places in Ire-
land, is Freemasonry cherished. To this institu-
tion, under God, they attribute their deliverance.
Although they do not associate together as an order,
or make any display of their opinions, they are the
most uncompromising of Masons. Masons alone, of
all mankind, preach salvation with power to Deists
and Atheists. They are the only people on the earth
who have bruised the serpent's head.
Allen, according to a hint from General Lambert,

had introduced himself to this order, by whom be
was met with every mark of regard; and who were
bound to stand by him in any emergency. He was,
already, a Royal Arch in the order, and had drank
deep of the foundation of knowledge discovered by
that holy brotherhood, and was therefore entitled to
every distinction, lie was given a passport that in
northern Ireland was better than an army with ban-
ners, and from one of the brethren a letter to Bishop
Fredonia's steward, who was also a Mason. The bishop
was absent in England upon the business of trying to
retain the entire control of Lady Fredonia, which, if
he could do, would give him an immense advantage.
There was a will which her ladyship had always
managed to keep from the grasp of her second hus-
band, and which he feared she might find an oppor-
tunity of conveying to the administrators, notwith-
standing her alleged insanity.
In this state of affairs, Allen arrived at Cunning-
ham Castle attended in a lordly manner by two negro
boys, i Vam~ricaine, and, presenting his letter to
the steward, he was handsomely received and made
"at home." His servants were the wonder of the
whole household and furnished infinite amusement to
the servants of the bishop. The boys were not back-
ward in making the most of their opportunity, and
pretended to marvellous things, calculated to inspire
respect in the mammon-worshipping menials of a
mammon-worshipping lord. Indeed, Allen had
picked them out of a travelling negro show for that
special purpose, which they carried out to perfec-
tion, and, if one might have judged of their master
13


OR, LiFE IN TWO WORLDS.

290      THE ROMANCE OF AN IRISh GIRL;

by the display they made in attending him, he
might have been the Grand Turk.
Allen found the bishop's sfeward a very gentle-
manly person, and judged that, of his own free will,
he would have done an injury to no one; but those
who serve in that country are hardly personally
responsible for their actions. In America, where a
man is "hired," and goes or stays at his pleasure, he
may be supposed to exercise a conscience; but not so
when the law makes him a servant, and where jus-
tices of the peace bind him to service, sometimes
without his own consent.
In the bishop's family there was one member for
whose acquaintance our adventurer was unprepared.
This was the bishop's mistress, who ruled in the
house with an absolute will. Of French origin and
Italian birth, she combined in her character the sub-
tilety and vices of both nations, being elegant in
manner, accomplished in mind, and thoroughly cor-
rupt at heart. Reverse of' fortune had brought hei'
to England, where the bishop fell in with her and
secured her instructions for his dan ghters, who then
needed a governess. Since their marriage he had
retained her for his own special consolation in the
numerous trials which he encountered, and to look
after the comfort of his poor demented lady! 11cr
devotion to the bishop was unparalleled for a time;
but, since his reputation and the prospect of his for-
tune began to waver, she had shown some signs of
being dissatisfied with her position. She understood
too well the delicate hair by which these two were
now suspended, to have nmch confidence in them;

and felt that, unless she could extricate herself from
her present connection, she should be involved in
the ruin.
Of all the persons about the house, Mile. N-.--
was most impressed with the~ display made by the
young American planter-as she had no doubt he
was. His generosity, the attention his servants gave
him, his good breeding and youth, made it a matter
of anxiety to her to secure his good opinion. It was
equally a point with him to become a favorite with
her, and, to this result, he addressed himself, lie
was much in her company, and gave her every flat-
tering attention. His servants were exceedingly
obsequious to her, as if reflecting the sentiments of
their master, and Mile. N- was on the high road
to a new conqnest apparently. She took great care
to conceal from her admirer her former situation in
the family, or her late relations with the bislmop-both
of which, however, were made known to Allen
through his friend, the steward. As a relative of the
bishop, she assumed the charge of his household in the
absence of Lady Fredonia, while she was suffering
from mental "derangement."
The game went on finely for a time; the French-
woman soliloquizing somethimi g after this manner:
"It is dine I was 4ettled in some way. TIme bishop
is getting old, wrinkled and disagreeable, and may be
poor, besides. Or, if he does not lose the estate, and
if Lady Fredonia does die, there's no security that
he'll marry me. A man that could treat his wife so
shamefully is not sure to treat his mistress any better.
I have devoted myself to him for years, and hav.~


292

TIlE ROMANCE OF AN IRISH GIRL;

nothing to show for it. A living is all I have gained,
and even that may not last. This planter is agree-
able and rich ,and has such delightfully obsequious
servants. If 1 could secure him by pretending to
good blood, since I have no fortune-it is evidently
my last chance, and a good one too. I must do it,
by all means. My beauty is not faded much, thank
Heaven !" And Allen: "This Frenchwoinan Is
excellent capital for me. She entertains like a prin-
cess, and is certainly agreeable. One of these days I
shall take her by surprise, and get more of her confi-
dence than she is intending to give me."
Of course this play could not last too long with
safety, and Allen began to talk of going, his servants
having exhausted their imaginations in telling tales
of the wonderful possessions of their master, and his
princely residence at home, on a plantation with two
thousand negroes, and an income of fabulous amount.
The mention of Allen's departure put- Mlle. N-
in a state of nervous excitement. "Oh, not yet; you
will stay a day or two more. We will have a hunt
to-day, an excursion to Lake Erne to-morrow; there
- are a dozen things I want you to see before you go."
So he promised to stay for the hunt. This sort of
amusement with nobody but the inmates of the castle,
the steward and a few rather dull people, did not
seem to offer much amusement; neither was Allen a
very good rider when it came to a regular chase over
hedges and ditches; but he was glad of the oppor-
tunity which it might offer to get into Mlle. N-'s
confidence, in one way or another.
Allen had his own opinion of hunting, as practiced

by the English, aside from his dread arising from
inexperience. In the first place, it is cruel and
hazardous to horse and rider, as well as to the poor
creature pursued and killed for the amusement of
idle people. And, secondly, it is a reckless waste of
the labors of the poor, by breaking down hedges and
otherwise destroying property. He sees in it the
same principle which inspires the gamester, and finds
it legalize4 upon the same principle. The English
law makes a man a vagrant who attempts to kill even
a partridge, unless he is the owner of an estate that
brings an income of one hundred pounds per annum
-the money sanctifying the act! But, for this occa-
sion, Allen sets aside his scruples, and undertakes to
make one in the long-famed chase of old English
nobles and gentlemen. As his negroes were alto-
gether unused to this sort of sport, two good riders
were appointed to his service who could outdo him
on an oe~asion like this, with all ease. The horses
were fine hunters, and, to those up to the sport, would
have furnished high excitement. After a little beat-
ing about, a deer was started. The gamekeeper had
given strict orders that the deer should not be killed
when he turned out the hounds, but the savage
fellows had been without sport for some time,
and their eyes told plainly enough the fate of the
luckless animal. The horses, too, seemed to anti-
cipate the sport with eagerness, as they pranced and
curvetted.
At a word from the sportsmen, the chase was
started. Whoop! Hurrah! Over ditches and
hedges, through bogs and, through uplands, as if the

OR, LIFE IN TWO WORLDS.        293

293


OR, LIFE IN TWo WORLDS.         2%

294      TIlE ROMANCE OF A~ IRISh GIRL:

very Evil One ~vas after them, both men and women.
Now up a steep hill, now over a bog; and a stream
to cross where the deer gathers strength by swim-
mm o" now he reaches a glen, where the hounds lose
sight of him for a while. how the hounds and
horses plunge through that place!
Allen was a little disconcerted at first, by this pell-
inell proceeding; but, finding that his hunter under-
stood the business and he had only to keep his place,
he relinquished himself to the spirit of the chase. A
first-rate hunter will dash up a steep bank, go over a
wall, and alight on a pavement with a force that' sends
the blood sporting from his own feet and his rider's
nose, without stopping. But this sport was doomed
to a sudden termination, for one of the party, Mlle.
N--, was caught by the limb of a tree, dragged
from her horse, and fell to the ground with terrible
force. Allen, who rode beside her, instantly stopped,
though the party kept on as if nothing had happened.
Perhaps it was not noticed, but the unfortunate per-
son was severely hurt, and there was no one to assist
her but the planter. Of this, notwithstanding her
injuries, the Frenchwoman was rather glad, since
compelled him to be more tender to her than he ~
yet been called upon to be. The nature of her inju-
ries prevented her removal to the castle for the
present, and quarters were found for her in a farm-
house near by. Poor enough thoy were, and served
as an excuse for a daily visit from Allen, to see thut
she had everything necessary to her comfort. Had
Mfle. N- been a lovely and pure girl in these
circumstances, there would be no security against his

falling ill love with her ; but, as it was, he only
wickedly pretended to do so.
The opportunity furnished was far too good to let
pass, for inquiring into the secrets of the Fredonia
hiniily. Deceived by his attentions, and the words
let fall from time to time of interesting meaniiw' the.
poor woman was completely duped, and confided to
her supposed lover the truth of Lady Fredonia's situ-
ation, together with the intentions of the bishop,
and many facts unguesseci by her questioner. Of
course she concealed her own complicity in the busi-
ness, and affected a horror of the bishop's wicked-
ness. From her revelations, Allen learned that Woods
was living, and in such circumstances as afforded
some hope that he might be able to see him. He
had, as was suspected, been removed from Dublin to
a private prison by the chancellor, at the instance of
Bishop Fredonia, who thought tims to defeat the
untiring efforts of Miss Cunningham to bring about a
union with him. The two, together, aftem' all they
had suffered, might prove dangerous enemies to his
holiness' o'ood standing' and such men as Bishon Fre-
b                                
donia do not allow dangerous enemies to go at large,
when by any means they can prevent them.
The condition of Lady Fredonia was found to be
very painful. Deprived of her liberty and treated
hs incurably insane, she was subject to the most
shocking neglect. The cruelties which,, in a smaller
way, she had once visited upon her own child, she
was now compelled to suffer. Allen was moved with
the account of her sufferings, and could not help in-
wardly praying that her atonement might speedily be


296      TilE ROMANCE OF AN IRISh GIRL;

finished. Mile. N-, spoke as a mere witness
of these things; and acknowledged that the bishop
had tried to~ bribe her to obtain a will her la(lyship
had concealed.
Now came Allen's grand stroke of duplicity. He
made the lovely and innocent creature the offer of his
hand-proposing, at the same time, to remove Lady
Fredonia to America to join her daughter, who would
gladly receive her and minister to her consolation.
The plan met ready acquiescence from inademoislie,
who owed the bishop a spite; but how was this to be
effected speedily and safely before the return of the
bishop? 11cr ladyship was ill and infirm, and could
not act for herself. Allen met this objection with a
plan which obviated all difficulties. If she would
give him authority to visit Lady Fredonia, he would
go and prepare her for the event, at the same time
giving her some strengthening drugs to make her
equal to the undertaking. This seemed a feasible
plan, to which mademoisile consented. Writing a
note to the servant who attended on her ladyship,
she gave it to him, assuring him it would procure him
an interview in which he could arrange the prelimi-
naries of the journey with the invalid. Taking this,
and bidding her take care to be well recovered in a
few days, Allen hastened over to the castle, and after
seeing the steward he presented the note to the ser-
vant of Lady Fredonia.
Though somewhat surprised at this irregular pro-
ceeding, the servant made no objection, and lie was ad-
mitted to the apartments of her ladyship. Good
heaven! is this the protection which women have? In

OR, LIFE IN TWO WORLDS.        297
that portion of the castle long abandoned, looking like
a saint's purgatory in its gloom and ghostliness, has
Lady Fredonia spent years of her life which ought
to have been in its prime! It might have startled
stronger nerves to have come suddenly upon such a
spectre as her ladyship appeared to unaccustomed
eyes. The colorless skin of the once handsome face
was fairly dried into the bones; the large, black eyes
had a strangely supernatural fire, contrasting fearfully
with the emaciated countenance. The appearance of
a stranger startled her, not having seen any but her
regular attendants in years of isolation, an unfamiliar
face at once announced some change in her affairs,
whether for better or worse. Allen relieved her con-
fusion as quickly as possible by making an announce-
ment of himself in such a manner as to disarm all
fears of its being for the wor~c. It was with difficulty
he commanded his own feelings sufficiently to enter
upon his business with the dispatch necessary.
"I have brought you a letter from your daughter,"
said he, as naturally as possible.
"My daughter! poor Marion !" cried her ladyshiy,
bursting into tears.
"She lives; I have not murdered her! Oh, I thank
thee, Heaven!
"Your daughter lives, and is well, and very anx-
ious to hear from her mother," answered Allen, com-
posedly. I have taken great pains to procure this in-
terview, and n-inst make it as comprehensive as pos-
sible, lie then went on to state all that lie thought
she might wish to know concerning Marion: and to
tell of her late visit to Ireland, and the suit she had
1 ~3e


298

TILE ROMANCE OF AN IRISH GIRL;

entered, and the Inanner in which it had been de-
fended. 11cr ladyship was very much affected, and
thanked him again and again for his part in assisting
her daughter, who, she acknowledged, she had liii-
justly persecuted.
"What can I (10 to serve your ladyship ?" he asked.
"Convey this paper to her," she answered, produc-
ing from the folds of her dress a yellow looking doen-
meut. "It is a will by her father, Lord Charles Cun-
ningham. Ask her to refrain from settling it for three
years longer. I shall then be in my grave, probably,
and its settlement will bring no disgrace on me. My
own property is disposed of, and nothing remains but
to have the estate claimed and settled when I am
dead. There has been so much trouble already, I shrink
from having any further contention with my enemies
and Marion's; and now that her property is secured
to her, I only ask her to wait a little longer. 11cr
forgiveness I cannot ask, though I' hope God has
enabled her to bestow it. In addition to the assur-
ances of my affection, which I wish you to bear to her,
tell her from inc that I repent of having opposed her
union with the man of her choice, and that, should
fortune favor them to escape from the power of their
enemies, I give my cordial consent to their ~~rriage.~~
This conversation so exhausted her ladyship that
she was obliged to lie down, while Allen sat beside
her and gave her a few more words of comfort.
"Be assured," said he, "that you will yet see hap-
pier days. Your daughter is by 110 means greatly
injured by the trials through which she has passed.
They have strengthened her virtues, and corrected her

faults; and when she is assured of your afh~ction and
restored to her rights, she will have nothing to regret
on her own account. It is Marion's belief that good
will yet come out of all this evil. Try, therefore, to
take heart, and look forward to the good time
coiflhlig."
Lady Fredonia thanked her visitor for ins encour-
aging words, butt ~Inile(l iiicredulousl at the idea
of ever seeing the time lie spoke of, when she might
yet be happy. She seemed quite overcome at his de-
parture, and lie left her lying in a fiuinting condition
upon a couch.
Allen had succeeded almost beyond his hopes. All
that could be gained by a knowledge of the premises
he had gained. having written a very tender note
to Mile. N , and bidden adieu to the stew-
ard, our adventurer de})arted, with his two negroes,
whom he dismissed at the first town. his destination
now was Gen. Arsdell's. The general, who lia(l beard
nothing from him for a long time, was half demented
with astonishment and delight at the story of Allen's
exploits. "Why, boy, 1 believe you are l)ossesse(l of
the devil. None but the old gentleman himself would
have dared to venture on such dangerous grounds."
"That's the first time I ever heard that the devil
was particularly brave," answered Allen; "lie hasn't
much reputation for courage in our country."
Well, ~OU are an imI) I am heartily glad to see,
and the ' very devil for luck ' any way ;" said the
general, giving his hand a squeeze. It was true that,
from the first, Allen's movements had been fortunate,
and that, but for him, Marion would have been in

OR~ LIFE IN TWO WORLDS.        299

299


300      THE ROMANCE OF AN IRISH GIRL;                                     OR, LIFE IN TWO WORLDS.       301

the deepest misery at the present time; perhaps in
the condition of her mother. The general informed
Allen that Lord Potter had written to him to know
where he was, saying he had important news for
him; so, as soon as he had made a little visit with the
general, he posted off again to Cork.
Lord Potter met him 'with every luark of friend-
ship, entertaining him at his house. As it was now
about four months since his friends, Sheldon Brown,
Marion and Annie ,had left Scotland, he was glad to
find several letters-some old and some new. The
first one from his mother expressed her delight at the
present he bad sent her of a lovely young daughter,
and urged him to hasten home. Those of a later date
made him gasp for breath. The story of Annie Stew-
art having been circulated among the people in her
neighborhood, had come to the ears of some envious
English 'who had written home about it, and, unfor-
tunately, it had reached the ears of interested parties.
The next thing Mrs. Allen heard of it, 'was that the
Catholics claimed Annie; saying she had escaped
from a Catholic school, and there 'were threats made
of having her taken forcibly, and s~nt to a liunnery.
Full of alarm, Mrs. Allen 'wrote to her son about it;
but, she informed him that the Alnericans were not
going to permit it, if they had to tear down every
church, school and nunnery belonging to the Catho-
lics; and as she was very careful of Annie, she hoped
to have no serious trouble about it. Still she urged
him to come home.
This was exciting news to Allen. Oh, that he had
the wings of a dove, to fly to the protection of Annie

Stewart! But, as he had not, ~nd there were several
things to detain him, and one most especially, he
immediately sought Lord Potter's advice on the sub-
ject. "I do not think Annie in any great danger, if
your mother is careful enough to keep her at home,
as I have no doubt she will. Your people are not
going to allow a young girl to be carried off against
her 'will, and put in a convent, and you 'would not be
afraid of it, if any other person was the one threat-
ened."
"Perhaps not," said Allen, blushing with a con-
sciousness of the truth of this accusation. "The
only thing to fear is the secret power of the Irish, of
whom there are leo'ions in all our cities. My mother
says this affair has unade considerable stir among the
servant girls, living in Protestant families, and they
may take it into their heads to spirit her away, if by
doing so they can gain the approbation of the
church."
"They might do that in this country, but not in
the United States. The Catholic church is m e
politic than to risk her reputation in that way mere.
Not until she imagines she has the power in he' own
hands, will she undertake to use coercive measures
openly. If you will allow me to show your mother's
letter to a priest in this place, I ~vi1l show you how
the Catholics feel about such things!"
Accordingly, they went together to the priest, who
pretended, or felt the greatest indignation: The dig-
nity and integrity of the church was outraged by suel
supposition. It must have been a scandal altogether.
his patriotism cries against such things. lie will

300


302      THE ROMANCE OF AN IRISH GIRL;                                         OR~ LIFE IN TWO WORLDS.       303

make haste to find out the truth; but it is not to be
credited that such a thing could be true, in America
especially, where the people are so tenacious of their
rio'hts and where the church has always made it a
point to respect them. lie would investigate it
immediately-he would write a letter that very atter-,
noon to the church in America. If such a thin~ could
be true there would be mourning in heaven and at
Rome. Why, the young lady's friends were all Pro-
testants; it could not be that they could have had
any connection with the Catholic church.
"You see," said Lord Potter, "that the priest
acknowledges the foolishness of such a proceeding.
He knows the ill effect of an Irish outbreak like that
occasioned by this Annie Stewart affair in your coun-
try. He foresees that it will set your people to think-
ing about the propriety of allowing the present
immense emigration to continue, and really inj nrc
the cause of the Irish and the church. When I
behold how my countrymen deport themselves in
the United States, I am led to exclaim, 'Oh foolish
Irishmen! who hath bewitched you,' that you should
not, live quietly and obey the laws where there are
so many inducements to good habits? There, if you
would, you might shake off your shackles, and be
free as you never before were. There you have no
occasion to drink yourselves stupid to lose the sense
of your misery. There your wives and children may
be comfortably fed and clothed, and yourselves re-
spectable and happy. Oh, foolish Irishmen indeed!"
Father O'Grady, who was a man of sense, realized
the folly which was losing the friendship of the Amen-

can people so recklessly, and sincerely deplored it.
So did other Irishmen. They resented the interfer-
ence of the English which had occasioned the Annie
Stewart troubles; and were furious at the "London
Times" for the nianner in which it warned the United
States against ad opting these lawless and ungrateful
Irish. The stoi;y of these injuries ran like wildfire
among the men of Cork, and stirred up a spirit of
ferocity among the people toward the English.
An anecdote came to AllCIl's ears which aston-
ished him. It appeared that a servant of Lord Pot-
ter, a quick, intelligent young fellow, who, though
a Protestant, was no friend to the English, had been
at the head of a band that took it into their hands to
punish the nation in the persons of a party of English
lords, who had come over to hunt in Ireland. The
young man's name was Daniel Sharp, a very popular
person among a certain class of men in Cork. So
well trained were his associates that a nod of the
head, or a wink of the eye, was sufficient to indicate
to them the presence of an occasion to be on the
alert. If the enterprise was a dangerous one and
they had not time to resort to lampblack, their faces
were quickly smeared with boo-dirt which was just
as good a disguise as any.
Lord S , who lived on the nearest estate, was
losing his best tenants by emigration. Those to whom
they sold their leases were not as good men, and
would not be able to pay him as high rates as the old
tenants; therefore he was greatly dissatisfied, and pro-
nounced them all a nest of vipers, who had no grati-
tude in their natures. It was with Lord S - that

aos

aos


OR, LIFE IN TWO WORLDS.       305

304      THE ROMANCE OF AN IRISH GIRL;

the English hunting party were staying. One Spreg,
an emigrating tenant of Lord Sheldon, was very inti-
mate with Sharp, and repeated to him all the bitter
things his lordship had said about the Irish. Toge-
ther the two concerted to have a little sport out of
his lordship and his friends~. Lying in wait for them
one day, they affected to have been surprised by a
meeting on one of the farms of the estate. "So
Spreg, you are still bound for America ?" said Lord
Sheldon, to his fcrrmer tenant.
"Troth, that's what I am," answered Spreg.
"You must look out that the American Eagle does
not pick out the eyes of her Irish brood," said one of
the lords, sneeringly.
"Yes, eagles devour reptiles," put in another,
smiling at his own wit.
," Reptiles, is it ?" thundered David Sharp. "No-
thing in that shape ever grew on Irish soil! It is
your precious England produces every beastly thing
from a lion to a serpent."
"Whelp !" ejaculated the enraged lord, and with
that he struck at Sharp with a riding-whip.
"Take care, your lordship; the lion' 8 whelp will
find that a man, even an Irishman, is his master,
according to the order of creation. We understand
the nature of your mother the British Lion; we
know her threatening ways and her sneaking ways;
and when an Englishman takes us by the hand,
saying, 'how is it with thee my brother,' we expect
him to stab us under the fifth rib; yet, some of us
are not afraid."
"Yon are a most insolent scoundrel, 1 declare,"

said his lordship, between anger and amazement.
"Here, Sheldon, lend me your pistols."
The pistols were quickly produced. "Down on
your knees, you rascal, and beg my pardon, or I'll
blow out yonr brains on the spot."
Sharp gave a peculiar cry, which, in a moment,
brought fifty ugly-looking bogtrotters around the
little1~arty of a haIt~dozen lords. At this demonstra-
tion, Lord Sheldon tried to make a jest of the affair,
by laughing and declaring Sharp a "cunning rascal."
The pistols were put up and a disposition to amity
shown. But Sharp was not satisfied with this termi-.
nation of the affair. lie placed himself in the midst
of the circle which had closed around their lordships,
and made a speech wherein he set forth the traits of
the beast known as a lion in no very complimentary
colors. At the close* of this address, his followers set
up a yell that might have appalled stouter hearts
than those lordly ones.
"Now," said the orator, addressing Ii himself to their
lordsliips, "we are going to know who set afoot that
mischief about Annie Stewart, and who her relatives
are that deserted her, and all the rest about her that
any of you know. Here is a bottle to wet your
throat, after Pvc drunk to the land which gives pro-
tection to the homeless."
The temper of an English lord could not endure
this familiar way of being treated, and Sharp re-
ceived a slap on his cheek with the flat of a gloved
hand. The blow was returned with interest, and a
fight was likely to ensue, when both parties inter-
fered to prevent it.

I


306      TilE ROMANCE OF Ai~ IRISh GIRL;

0

To end the matter, Sharp produced writing mate-
rials from his pocket and proceeded to take a deposi-
tion from the discomfited lord concerning the origin
and connections and rights of Annie Stewart; pro-
mising him to let him go for the present and future,
if he told tIme truth, and never to reveal the degrada-
tion he had been subjected to. Thus surrounded
with dangers out of which time one 1air of pistols in
the company never could bring them, his lordship
complied, though with rather a bad grace. The story
was essentially the same which Annie told, though
revealing some facts of which she was ignorant. The
party were then suffered to proceed on their walk,
while the delighted Irishmen disappeared in various
directions. Most of them were disguised so as not to
be recognized, but Spreg made haste to get out of the
way of an arrest, while Sharp, who knew that Lord
Sheldon could not identify him, only laughed and
told the story to his friends.
Lord Potter felt the affair to be an outrage ; but
he knew how much provocation the Irish daily suffer
without retaliating, and lie could not reprove Sharp
as severely as he deserved. Besides, Allen was very
glad to learn the few additional particulars concern-
ing Annie's rights of birth, as it might help to esta-
blish her in them at some future day.
The story got out in Cork, and a great effort was
made to arrest the guilty parties without any success.
S6me were already on their way to America and some.
had so successfully disguised themselves that no one
could have recognized them after the change of clothes
and complexion. The class to which the rogues be-

OR, LIFE IN TWO WORLDS.       307
longed kept themselves very quiet, and the authori-
ties were entirely at a loss.
At last, however, an informer appeared, to claim
the reward which had beeu offered. She was an old
woman, more like a witch than any other creature,
who professed to know where these outlaws resorted,
and promised to betray their retreat to the police if
she would be protected afterward. She was retained
as a witness, and received the required promise.
Only at night, she said, the outlaws could be taken
in their haunts. Accordingly, at night the police
turned out in force, accompanied by the injured lord,
who wished to be certain of his men.
The pith pursued, after leaving the city behind
them, led along the edge of a large bogwhich, in usual
times, was passable enough ; but late rains had swol-
len all the small streams, and the temporary bridges
gave way in a good many instances, Precipitating
theni into the watei', and making the passage so dan-
gerous that the party were tempted to turn back.
The night was Pitchy dark, and drizzling rain falling.
In the midst of a scene of confusion caused by the
giving way of the timbers of a small bridge, their
guide escaped from them and was lost in the darkness.
Shortly the sound of a trumpet was heard and torches
appeared here and there, borne by figures hearingg
green breeches and red jackets and caps of a pictu-
resque shape. Slowly these torches gathered together
and fQrmed in a company at a safe distance from the
police, who could not tell whether these were the men
they were after or not, though they presumed they
must be. The torches however, kept flitting on at


308    THE ROMANCE OF AN IRIsH GIRL;                                         OR  IEI;W       OLS

about the same distance from their pursuers, obeying
rapidly the commands of the handsome trumpeter,
who at a sound caused them to scatter or gather, or
light or extinguish their torches.
The whole scene was fanciful and mysterious in
the extreme, and the pursuing party, fearful of being
led into some danger, gave up the chase. The excuse
made by the Irish portion of them was that they
knew the torch-bearers were fairies, and would have
done them harm if they had continued the pursuit.
Thus ended this excursion in superstitious fear-as
nearly every undertaking in Ireland does end-and
the English lord had to swallow the indignities put
upon him with no hope of redress.
An explanation of the scene which so alarmed the
police, could have been found in the scene which fol-
lowed their retreat. Gathered together in an old
ruin, were a company of men, amongst whom
might have been recognized Daniel Sharp and Spreg,
all dressed in the costume described, and seated
around a table whereon was a little food and drink.
The party were not as merry as outlaws sometimes
are, for they were met together for the last time.
Most of the company were going to emigrate to Ame-
rica-; a few, like Sharp, remained behind for the
present: Many an act of retribution had they per-
formed, and many a cruelty avenged, which in no
other way could be either avenged or resisted. Few
crimes had been committed by them, except in acts
of self-defence; but they were sufficiently obnoxious
to the laws to be in danger of transportation should
any of their number ever be taken. Money they had

I

309

little of, and expected to beg their way to some.
northern port, where passage could be taken to Ame-
rica.- Those who were better provided, gave of their
means to the .rest, and so they separated. Their plan
was to travel on foot at night, asking food at the
houses of the poor, in the name of the "little people."
It is the custom in Irish houses to leave the fire burn-
ing, and food where it can be found for the accommo-
dation of these little folks ; so our travellers in red
jackets and caps were not likely to starve;- and if
ever they needed service it was always safe to confide
in the iRoman priests, the only safe confidants.
Sometimes they are punished by them, but never-
betrayed. It was, the intention of this company to
reach Belfast and thence take ship, furnishing their
own provisions and foregoing all luxuries.
Notwithstanding all these men have suffered and
done, they will weep when they part from their
native land. Such is the Irish "heart of them."

308


310      TUE ROMANCE OF AN IRISH GIRL;

CllAPTEI~ XXV.
ALLEN was now furnished with evidence to serve
in the case of an application being made for Annie's
property; but he gave little thought to that at pre-
sent. First of all things, he wished to get his o~x n
business, or rather Marion's, in such a state that lie
could leave for home. He therefore left it to Lord
Potter to watch Annie's interest in England, while
he made preparations to accomplish his other purposes.
In the meantime, matters of importance were tran-
spiring on the old Cunningham estate. The bishop
had returned from England, where lie had beemi
endeavoring to make such provisions for his wife as
would save his own honor and add to his worldly
prosperity, to find that a stranger had been flirting
with his mistress, and taking the castle by storni
generally. A quarrel with Mile. N- was the
first result of this discovery; but they were altogether
too necessary to each other to hold displeasure long,
and the breach was soon healed. What the errand
of the Arnericail had been, he could not learn, so he
set it down to Yankee curiosity to see the world.
The bishop caine home this time fully determined
to ~OSSC55 himself of the will which he supposed to be
in her ladyship's possession. The Queen's Bench had
promised to appoint some member of the house of
Lords to investigate Lady Fredonia's case, and if
found to be incurably insane, to make such provisions

A

OR~ LIFE IN TWO WORLDS.       311
as were deemed best for a person of her position.
That she should be found insane, the bishop was
resolved; therefore, with his nerves well bound and
braced for the emergency by those "cords of love"
lie had talked so much about all his life, the holy
man sought an interview with his cherished wife.
On entering her apartment, accompanied by his sym-
pathizing mistress, he met with a very cold and
dignified reception. Now that her mind was at rest
about the future welfare of her daughter, Lady Fre-
donia had dismissed all anxiety concerning herself,
and felt ready to meet any IJersonal indignities with
calmness. This indifference rather surprised her
tyrant, who had so long expected her to quail before
his anger. Advancing toward her couch, where she
reclined, he called her attention to the fact that he
had come for the last time to demand the will of her
former husbaud, which she had stubbornly refused to
have known. The time had come when it ought to
be settled, and 8liould be; hence her ladyship must
make up her mind to part with it.
"The will, and all else that I have guarded and
held sacred, are beyond your reach, and ever will be;
let me alone to die in peace." Her ladyship had
risen, and was sitting upon the side of her couch.
The bishop grasped her shoulder firmly, while he
sternly said: " Give me the will !"
"I have it not; it is goiie from lien cc," she an-
swered, firmly.
"Liar and traitress !" lie exclaimed, shaking her
roughly. A paper fell from her bosom upon the
floor. MIle. N-i------ eagerly snatched at it, and ran


312      TIlE ROMANCE OF AN IRI5H GIRL;
from the room with her prize. "Know," continued the
bishop, "that you have no tower to thwart my wishes.
The law of England gives me unlimited authority
over you and yours, from the day of your marriage.
In a legal sense, you have ceased to exist, arid it is
time you recognized my rights. If you do what is
your duty I may reward you with some kindness;
but, if you continue in this course, I promise to visit
my wrath upon you as you deserve."
Before the bishop had finished his lecture, Mile.
N-- returned to the apartment in great haste and
excitement. "Look here," said she; "here is a
letter from Marion Cunningham, which her ladyship
has lately received. It is the paper which I took
from her just now." The bishop took it and glanced
over it. "Ha! how came you by this letter, Lady
Fredonia! There has been intrigue at work here.
How does it come, mademoiselle, that in my absence a
correspondence of this kind is smuggled into my
house? This is some of your American's doings;
which, if I find you have been party to, I will turn
you out of doors."
"Indeed, 1 know nothing about it," whimpered
mademoiselle, who recollected the note she bad given
to Allen, in alarm.
"There i~ somebody knows about it, and that person
will account for his treachery," said his holiness, in
rather a bad humor.
"Her ladyship knows, of course," suggested Mile.
~-- and with the quickness of a cat she sprang at
Lady Fredonia, and clenched her throat between her
fingers.

OR~ LIFE IN TWO WORLDS.       313
An attendant, who happened to be present, inter-
fered, and received a blow upon her cheek from the
furious Frenchwoman. The bishop then withdrew
her from the apartment until he could come to some
conclusion about the matter. He called the stew-
ard to account, but the steward knew nothing in
regard to the letter; and the result of his investiga-
tion only brought the blame of the mischance upon
* Mile. N , who, the servant said, sent a note
authorizing her to admit Mr. Allen to her ladyship's
presence.
Mile. N- was in great consternation at this dis-
covery, and at the bishop's wrath; but she furnished
him such valuable council in the case, that he was
obliged to forgive her. It was conceived in her fer-
tile brain that a drug might be given Lady Fredonia,
to make her insane, so that the investigation would
not prove a failure-a drug she said, which would
not affect the health of the patient dangerously.
The bishop cautioned her against that, as his hold
upon the property terminated with the life of her
ladyship, and his residence in Cunningham Castle
expired with her breath. Truly this was a trying
position for a bishop to be in! He did not like to
be guilty of murder, though his wife was a great vex-
ation to him, and his enjoyment of her property
ceased with her heart-beats. He wanted her to be
alive, but incapable of controlling her possessions, in
order that the office of controller might the more
entirely devolve upon him, and he wanted her to give
up the will which might deprive him of some of
these privileges and emoluments. If a bishop and a
14


314      TIlE ROMANCE OF AN IRISH GIRL;
pillar of the Church desired all this, and had ,a legal
pretence for exacting it, it was a very hard case to be
frustrated in the accomplishment of his wishes. Very
hard case, truly!
After hearing the plan proposed by his mistress,
and not knowing what had been done with the will,
he thought it expedient to try the effect of flattery
on the female heart, before administering that drug
which would really render his wife incapable of
understanding his wishes. Accordingly, he dismissed
her attendants, and with his face adorned with the
most captivating smiles, approached her ladyship
with the deference and blandishments of courtship
days. He regretted his harshness, and confessed
that the superior devotion she seemed to feel for her
daughter had maddened him with jealousy, and made
him do things unworthy of himriself and cruel
toward her. But he wished now to have these
things forgotten. lie remindQd her of their first
meeting, the impression her beauty then made upon
him, and his subsequent devotion. Could she recall
these recollections and forget their more recent mis-
understandings ~
Lady Fredonia heard him through with calmness,
and replied unmoved, that the time had gone by
when such an appeal could have any effect upon her.
That from the first days of their marriage all his
efforts at pleasing her had been directed toward get-
ting possession ~of her own and her daughter's pro-
perty. That, in proportion as he had failed in this
he failed in duty toward her. That he had full con-
trol of her person and property, but that was not

OR~ LIFE IN ~wo WORLDS.       315
enough, though she should never assist him to any
further power than he already had.
In vain the bishop assured her of his friendship
for her daughter. lie wished, he said, since she knew
where a letter would reach her, to write to Marion
to come home and be happy. But Lady Fredonia
had not suffered imprisonment and abuse at his hands
for three years to be cajc4ed suddenly into confidence
in his motives aiid intentions. All his protestations
failed to convince her of his sincerity. At length,
carried quite beyond his self-control by his disappoint-
ment and chagrin, the bishop struck her a blow upon
the head which sent the blood sporting from her nose.
Immediately he regretted this action, as it was not
his policy to injure her in such a manner as might
endanger her life. But the cool composure with
which she suffered even this at his hands, and asked
him to strike more effectually next time that she
might sometime die, exasperated him. " You may
well wish to die,'~ was the answer, "for what you
will have to endure will he worse than death."
"I know not," she said, "whether to think you
man or devil; but your power to torment me will
not last much longer."
"We will see," lie said, giving her a push which in
her faint condition sent hwr reeling against the wall,
and left the room, pleased with his success.
The attendant in Lady Fredonia's apartment was
dismissed from that position, and one put in her place
who had' been obnoxious to her ladyship, being one
of those "bound" servants, no better tham~ slaves,
having no interest in being dutiful or capable. Mhle.


316      TILE ROMANCE OF AN huSH GIRL;

N- discovered that this old servant had a great
longing to get away from service and go to some
relations in America. She therefore promised her
that reward, for six months of faithful service and obe-.
dience to her wishes. The old woman gave renewed
assurances of obedience, and accepted her new posi-
tion with delight. But upon coming to see her mis-
tress' condition, and the great change that had taken
place in her appearance since last she had met her,
the coarse and cross old servant was affected to tears,
and her sympathy so moved the heart of her lady-
ship, long dependent on servants for society, that she
joined in her weeping, and thenceforth a tender sort
of friendship existed between the lady and her
uncouth attendant, that, in some degree, softened
the rigors of her cor~finement. Together they talked
over the old days when Lord Cunningham was alive
-of the troubles of his daughter, and hoped the
time would come when, Marion being restored to her
rights, the estate and the servants would be cared
for as formerly. Shortly after old Biddy was pro-
moted, Mile. N- reminded her of her promise to
be faithful, and proceeded to give her instructions
how to administer a drug in her ladyship's food, which
she said was to restore her health and prevent her
becoming hopelessly insane. But Biddy was suspi-
cious of something wrong about this peculiar medi-
cine, and communicated her fears to her mistress,
who of course, refused 1the "medical" preparation.
Poor old Biddy protested to Mile. N-, that she
had followed her directions, and so there was no-
thing to do but to await the result.

OR~ LIFE IN TWO WORLDS.       217
Meantime, preparations were going on for the
reception of visitors at the castle. Among them was
the Duke of , a distant relation of Lady Fre-
donma, who was there on a former occasion, which
has been mentioned. He was prejudiced against her
ladyship by her behavior at that time; still, he
thought it incumbent upon her friends to show some
interest in her welfare, and this visit was for the pur-
pose of ascertaining her real condition. He found
the bishop looking pale and haggard. From this, and
from being a regular adherent of the bishop, lie was
much disposed to commiserate his unhappy situation.
Mll~. N-~ made herself conspicuous by her
affected sympathy for the afflicted lady-so much so,
that the servants were provoked to commit some acts
of rudeness quite out of the pale of her forgiveness.
indeed, it happened, at last, that the bishop him-
self was driven to desperation by the act of some
person unknown, who, desiring to give the castle the
odor of a certain place, to which it had long been
akin, anointed the grates with a preparation of brim-
stone and assafetida. The stench, which no one could
or would account for, filled every habitable apart-
ment, and finally drove his guests out of the house,
haunted by the impression that his Satanic majesty
must be residing in that neighborhood. The humilia-
tion of this circumstance, which, for a long time was
unaccounted for, fairly made his holiness sick; or, if
the humiliation did not, the odor did. The servants, as
full of superstition as usual, declared the devil
haunted the house, and did nothing but mutter
prayers and run to the priest for charms. The commis-


31 S     THE ROMANCE OF AN IRISH GIRL;                                          OR, LIFE IN TWO WORLDS.        31 ~

sioners had gone away without seeing Lady Fredonia at
all, and the examination was "indefinitely postponed."
Truly, the way of the transgressor is a troublous one.
The bishop, anxious in his mind and affected by
the demonology of those about him, began to wonder
if evil spirits did not sometimes haunt and torment
mortals, who had not done their duty. No sooner did
this idea get possession of him than he began to grow
nervous and timid. I{aving heard of a woman who
professed to quiet evil spirits, tell fortunes, and do
many other wonderful thin o'5 he resolved to pay her
a visit. She was a stranger iii the neighborhood, and
had already attained to great popularity among the
common people, by the marvellous revelations she had
made of the past and future, and the rest she had
given to unquiet souls.
The bishop was received by this personage with an
air of mystery, very favorable to the occasion and the
preservation of her character as prophetess. Veiled
and seated behind a screen, she gave forth her ora-
cles in a low and impressive voice, with slow and
solemn utterance.
"What is your business with me ?" she asked of
her lordly visitor.
"I am afihicted with much mental trouble," said the
bishop. "I fear I am haunted by demoniac spirits,
so unsettled is my mind, and so unpleasant my house
and all my circumstances."
The prophetess was silent a few moments, and
then said sternly: "You are guilty of treason against
Heaven. You have imagined because you held a
high commission from that Power, as well as from

the qucen, that you were above the consequences of
sin, whereas you are only the more amenable to all
laws, particularly spiritual laws. You practise
hypocrisy, cruelty, inj justice and blasphemy, daily.
There is little hope for such as you." The bishop,
who had been biting his lips at this unpalatable dis-
section of his case, now asked as huinbly~as he could,
what he must do to restore himself to his former
peaceful state of mind.
"There is nothing ever will restore you. When a
man holding your high position, is guilty of such
crimes, he sells himself to the devil. I have no
charms nor cures for such as you." So saying, the
prophetess withdrew altogether from sight, and
refused to be called forth again.
Not long afterward, it was rumored that the very
popular fortune-teller, who was reputed rich and
young, and whom some of the young men boasted of
beiiig on good terms with, had turned out to be a
man. As she was gone, there was no positive proof,
but those young fellows who bad told their gallant-
ries, were rather set aback by this new phase of the
romance. To find money and beauty and a prospect
of a promised marriage melt axvay in that manner,
was a bitter triM to some of them, whose castles in
Spain were now quite fallen to the ground. It is a
hard thing for an Irishman to be outdone by a man
from another country; but to be served so by a "ras-
cally foreigner~' was too bad, entirely. Whoever
the fortune-teller was, she went away with a good
many men's secrets in her possession; and some that
would hardly bear repeating, on account of the
respectability of their former owners.


320      TilE ROMANCE OF AN IRISH GIRL;                                      OR, LTFE IN TWO WORLDS.       321

CHAPTER XXVI.
THERE seems to be a stimulus in crime which
keeps its votaries forever drinking deeper of it,
though they know the end is ruin and death. Lord
Charles Elia was not satisfied with the result of his
former expedition to America, upon an errand so
derogatory to human dignity and virtue, as the foul
persecution of a woman without father or brother to
protect her, and the end of his career, in that cause,
was not yet come. Let us hope it will be worthy of
the cause in which he is engaged; or rather let him
not be too successful in his undertakings, for the good
of better people.
Marion had been enjoying the luxury of quiet in an
American family in New York, for several weeks.
She was engaged in the capacity of governess, and
her duties, by no means severe, had the effect to tran-
quilhize her mind. Yet not until this tranquillity came
did she realize what a strain there had been upon her
nerves for years, nor what an effect their reaction
was having upon her. Though she had hardly
expected anything but defeat in her suit for the
recovery of her property, under the circumstances,
she found the disappointment greater than she had
thought, in the beginning, it could be. It was true,
she was not beaten; but she dreaded the mental
effort of commencing and carrying through another
prosecution againstt such opposition and prejudice as
she would have to encounter. It was quite an every-

day thing for her to be depressed in spirits now,
when, for years, while really undergoiiig the se verest
trials, she had maintained a brave spirit through all.
This particular afternoon she felt unusually low in
spirits. There seemed to be sonic tempest brewing in
her mental atmosphere, of whose influences she was
already made aware. To her inquiries as to the occa-
sion of a crowd which she observed in the street,
principally Irish, Mr. Sumner, her employer, in-
formed her that there was a singular trial going on,
in which the Irish took great interest. An Irish
coachman had married the daughter of his employer,
an Englishman of some rank and wealth, living near
the city; and the father claimed his daughter's cus-.
tody. The proud blood of the Englishman could not
suffer such a degradation for a daughter of his. But
the foolish old aristocrat had only reaped the reward
of his own exclusive and Engli8h notions. His
daughter had been excluded from the society of
American young men, good enough for her alliance,
because they were "only commoners;" and now she
had failed in love with and married a curly-headed,
quick-witted, handsome-looking Irishman, who drove
her coach. Her husband had sued her father for her
freedom, and all the Irish who had got news of the
affair were up in arms, as they always are when any-
thing pertaining to the rights of one of their nation
is being discussed. There was considerable feeling,
too, among the higher orders' of society, and the
court-room had been crowded at the trial. The Eng-
lishman evidently expected that his rank was going
to do him service in the suit' and ii nota
ad      little
14*


322      THE ROMANCE OJ~' AN IRISH GIRL;
sympathy from American would-be aristocrats, of
whom there arc vast numbers, after all the boast-
sing of the democratic character of the people. But,
American law makes no distinction in their favor,
thank Heaven! however much justice there was in
the father's proud unwillingness to consent to this
union, unsuitable as it certainly was, there could be
no appeal from common justice on account of indi-
vidual errors or interests. The lawyer for the plain-
tiff made no pretence at a plea. He merely told the
judge here was the evidence, and asked for his
decision. The judge read some passages of American
law with regard to the relation of parents and child-
ren, and also concerning the marriage relation;
after which he ordered his wife to be delivered up to
her husband. He gave the husband some good
advice as well; and then took him in his carriage to
get him through the cro~vd of eager Irish who were
anxious to congratulate him, to a hotel where ordered
to bring the lady of a coachman. While Mr. Sum-
ner was relating this romantic affair, Marion, who
was gazing out of the window, was struck by some-
thing familiar in the air of a gentleman passing along
the street, and observed that he stopped to ask a
question of the servant, who was learning over the
area railing after the fashion of servants. "Quick 1"
exclaimed Marion, beckoning to Mr. Sumner; "and
tell me who this is, if you can.~'
"I cannot tell you who it is, that I know of; but
your old friend, Tom McLain could, I think; as I
heard him saying to his father: 'there is that damned
rascal again.'"

I

OR, LIFE IN TWO WORLDS.        323

"It is Elia !" shrieked Marion, and fell fainting upon
the floor. The sudden apparition of this scoundrel in
New York, when she had been fancying herself quite
secure and at ease for the present, entirely banished
what little fortitude and courage remained in her
heart. She knew nothing but the most deadly and
insatiable enmity could have prompted him thus to
persevere in hunting down a woman who he felt sure
would never marry him, even if she never had cared
for another. If once he had wanted her for her pro-
perty, he now pursued her to revenge himself upon
her for past slights for indignities put upon him on
her account, and to gratify a propensity to evil which
was rooted in his nature.
Mr. Sumner was alarmed for her, though he did
not believe she was really unsafe in the midst of re-
spectable society; still, there was something to make
one nervous in knowing that a secret and remorse-
less power was at work for the injury of any human
being in any place. However, he promised her pro-
tection: and the benefits of the law, of which he was
an advocate, and in some degree succeeded in reas-
suring her. Marion wished him to arm himself; but
that seemed cowardly in his own quiet community;
and as he had no fears of open outrage either for her
or himself, he considered it useless.
Time passed on without any marked event taking
place. Then letters began to come to Mr. Sumner of
an abusive and threatening kind, and throwing out
dark insinuations against Miss Cunningham. The
servant girl behaved in a manner as she never had
before, toward the governess, half suspicious and half


324      TIlE ROMANCE OF AN IRISH GIRL;
as if conscious of some guilt in herself. Marion knew
nothing positively, but the secret influences about
her seemed to smother her, like the air before a thun-
der-storm. Her nervous weakness increased alarm
ingly until she was thought to be in a consumption.
In the meantime, Mrs. Sumner had been watching
her with interest, and had come to the conclusion that
it was time some active means were taken to discover
the mystery which was killing her. About this time
Marion received a letter from some unknown person
threatening and accusing her in terms of the most
slanderous import. This letter she immediately laid
before her employers, who then confessed they had
received letters from the same source. This was sur-
prising news to Marion, as no mention had ever been
made of them: and the mutual confidence brought
about a consultation on the present position of affairs.
Marion wished to see the Fowlers, as she thought they
might find out something about Elia, who, she was
confident, was still in New York. But Mr. Sumner
thought that the fewer persons who were admitted to
her counsel the better, if she wished to keep out of
Elia's knowledge. Marion, however, felt certain that
her enemy knew where she was and only waited an
opportunity to surprise her, which was somewhat dif-
ficult to find, as both her illness and her fears con-
fined her to the house. Mr. Sumner did not think a
man could be' such a fool as to be lurking around his
house, intending to molest any member of his family:
a practice which in New York would be rather dan-
gerous.
While they were still discussing the matter, and

tears of anxiety were falling on the cheeks of the in-
valid, which were answered by sympathizing drops
in Mrs. Sumner's eyes, Mary the servant girl came
into the room, bonneted and shawled, her face swol-
len with weeping, and holding in her hand a bundle
of clothing.
"Why, Mary, what does this mean ~" cried her
mistress, as the children came in, lamenting that Mary
was going away. But Mary only wept the more, and
could not answer distinctly to explain her sudden re-
solution. The girl had been in the family several
years, and was considered one of their number; there-
fore her conduct was inexplicable. Mr. Sumner was
somewhat vexed with her for what he considered a
mere freak; and said somewhat coldly: "Well, Mary,
when you see the foolishness of your conduct, come
back, and Mrs. Sumner will still be a mother to you,
as she has been." At this mild reproof, Mary's Irish
heart was quite broken, and she sobbed louder than
ever. After she had cried herself somewhat quiet
Mrs. Sumner again asked her what she meant by
going away.
"It's not the likes of ye I ever expect to find,~~
answered Mary; "but shure if I should stay"-and
here she broke down again.
"What in the name of heaven ails her, wife ?" broke
forth the lawyer. But he was not without a suspi-
cion of the trouble, and so gave Marion a sign to retire
'ni the room. When Marion was gone, Mr. Sum-
ner sat down by Mary and kindly taking her hand,
said: "Mary, if you have any trouble, it is our pri-
vilege to know it, as we take an interest in your wel-

OR, LIFE IN Two WORLDS.       32~


326

ThE ROMANCE OF AN IRISH GIRL;

fare. Or, if we have in any way offended you, it is
still your duty to explain, as you caniyot help know-
ing we have not meant to be unkind to you." Still
Mary was unable to make her confession. At last
Mr. Sumner said: "If it is a secret matter, Mary, you
can confide it to me as an attorney, without any fear
of its being betrayed; for attorneys are obliged to
keep the secrets of their clients." At that declaration
Mary's mind was set at ease. An attorney was like
a priest, and she might confide in him. Mrs. Sumner
followed Marion, and then the truth came out. She
had been solicited and urged by an old-country gen-
tleman to convey him to Miss Cunningham's room
secretly. He had offered her twenty pounds sterling
if she would introduce him privately to Miss Cun-
ningham's room, at such time as the family would
know nothing of it.
"But Mary, if you did not wish to do this, why
should you be distressed about it ?"
"Och, God bless you, the money will hire some-
body, and troth there is English girls and boys try-
ing to be great with me, and sure any one might get
the plan of the house in that way, and get into it
without my help, and so I thought I'd better go
away than be the means of bringing this trouble
upon yees and Miss Cunningham, the poor young
lady.~~
"Very well, Mary, I am glad I was here to pre-
vent your going ~" said Mr. Summer. "Don't you
see that if you go away I may be in danger of
hiring some of these designing persons in your place.
All you will have to do, 715 to remain, and keep quiet,

I

OR, LIFF~ IN TWO WORLDS.

327T

and when something more turns up about this busi-
ness, or anything suspicious happens, just come to me
about it privately, and I will attend to the matter
myself."
"It's an Irishman they call him," said Mary; "but
I hear he was born in a bed of honor in London, bad
luck to him!"
"Miss Cunningham i&amp; Irish, though ;" laughed Mr.
Sumner; "and is not ashamed of her birth either,
so you just return to your duties quietly, and we
will see about this Englishman getting into her
room."
Three weeks passed, and Mary was happily re-
stored to her former peace of mind and regular habits.
But upon the evening of which we write there was
an air over Mi'. Sumner's household of serious por-
tent. Marion had on her hat and shawl for a walk,
for the first time in a good many weeks. But she
trembled so violently that there was danger she
would not be able to fulfill her intention. "Come,
come! this will never do," chided her friends; "you
must do your part better than this, Or we shall not
succeed. Rouse up your resolution, and allow your-
self to be the humble instrument in the hands of
God and your friends, of securing a great scoundrel
for the hands of the law."
"Oh, I ca~mnot," cried Marion, sinking upon her
chair. "If I should see him, I should faint away in
the street."
"No you wouldn't. You would smile to think
how short a time the rascal had to run at large.
Never fear, Mrs. Sumner will take care of you when


OR~ LIFE IN TWO WOI~LTh~.       329

328      THE ROMANCE OF AN IRISH GIRL;

you come back, and reward you for being such a
good girl."
Thus encouraged, Marion started upon her walk.
Up and down Broadway and the principal streets,
she sauntered with a careless air, as if enjoying the
exercise, but seci'etly with the disagreeable conscious-
nc~ss of one playing a part, and at last, becoming so
bewildered as hardly to know the way home, which
she reached quite overcome with fatigue and excite-
ment. But friendly hands helped off her street gar-
ments, and brought refreshments. to restore her
strength. Nothing more was said about the occasion
of her late effort, which indeed she did not yet per-
fectly understand, as the calculating reserve of this
New England family only allowed her as much
insight into their plans as was for her benefit. It is
hard for a person of impulsive and ardent tempera-
ment to submit him or herself to the direction of the
cool and calculating; yet this was what was required
of Marion, and it proved a benefit to her in the
result. That night, when the family were assembled
for prayer, an unusual solemnity seemed to be felt in~*
the devotion of its members, and after singing
"Jesus, lover of my soul," the good old grandmother
of eighty years commended all, especially those in
trouble, to the care of the father of us all, with more
than common fervor. Catholic Mary, though for
bidden by her spiritual teachers to mingle in Pro-
testant devotions, could not refrain from silently
kneeling and listening on this occasion.
Sleep at length closed Marion's eyes, and qtiiet
reigned throughout the house. Midnight approached

arid a gentle rappilig upon the kitchen door gave the
signal to some one within that entrance was desired.
Carefully Mary unfastened the door and admitted a
stranger. "Lead me to her," he said, making a sign
to three others to remain where they were.
"Och, sure, an' me heart fails me entirely," whis-
pered Mary, who really trembled with emotion.
"Fool I" hissed the man whose disguise hid his fea-
tures, giving her a rough shake of the shoulder,
"proceed, I say I"
Mary suppressed a shriek, and reluctantly went on
before to the chamber, in a wing of the building,
which she pointed out as Miss Cunningham's room.
Here, giving him a key she left him, promising to
leave open all the doors in the passage back to the
kitchen, and to let in his followers at the least
alarm.
The key turned in the lock, and the kidnapper
entered. Producing a faint light, he laid his pistols
on a table to have them in readiness, and proceeded
to inspect the apartment. As yet the occupant had
not been awakened. He looked at her writing-table
on which were some pictures by her friends and some
half-written letters to some persons abroad. One of
these names he recognized, and it added nothing to his
good disposition toward his victim. After pocketing
such papers as he selected, lie approached tho bed,
gazed at the half-concealed face of the sleeper by
the dim light, and then bending down he whispered her
name softly several times, at the same time holding his
hand close to her ~iead, ready to suppress any exclama-
tion of surprise. The sleeper at length awakened with

I


I

330

TIlE IIOMANCE 01? AN ILl5II GIRL

a start which caused the hand to come down over the
mouth.
"I have you at last," he whispered hoarsely.
"Accursed daughter of a meddlesome father; you
are mine-mine-do you hear! Arise, and dress your-
self' in perfect sileiice, or I xviii blow out your.
brains "-stretching one hand toward the pistols. "If
you come quietly I promise you tolerable treatment;
but it will not answer for you to resist me now."
The poor victim shrunk and cowered under the
clothes, without attempting to utter a word or cry.
"Come," said the kidnapper, "I give you five
minutes, at the longest-and not one sound above
your breath. Here, I'll hold my pistol while you
dress yourself." Cowering down, as if still reluctant,
the inmate of the bed gathered up the coverlet and
in an instant dashed it over the head of' the ruffian,
and jumping upon him threw hiini to the floor. His
pistol was discharged in the fall, which caused him
to cry out that he was shot, as indeed he was. The
noise of the report, and the stentorian lungs of
Thomas iMicLain-for this was the name of the gentle
sleeper-speedily gathered a crowd upon the spot,
among whom were the three accomplices of the van-
quished lord, who, not apprehending any such recep-
tion, had rushed to his assistance on the first alarm.
So well had the plot been laid, that enough were on
the premises to secure the whole party of kidnappers.
Kot even a surgeon was lacking-but he had been
secured for Marion, who it was feared might be seized
with hemorrhage of the lungs, upon any fright-and
the wound of Lord Charles Ehia, kidnapper, was

01?, LIFE IN TWO WORLDS.

3'1

dressed upon the spot. It proved to be of rather a sen-
otis character, but did not prevent the officers from
taking him to a place of confinement, and placing
him in a solitary apartment. his accomplices shared
his punishment, but not his room, though lie entreated
that one or more of them might be left with him.
his chao'nin was excessive, insomuch lie tried to pre-
b
vent the dressing' of his wound, and declared his
intention of bleeding to death.
Thomas MeLain, who, upon reflection, Mr. Sum-
ner had concluded to take into his plot, was rejoiced
at the capture of this notorious villain, toward whom
he owed so old u grudge; yet who was inadvertently
the cause of his finding a good wife, who turned out
to be a lady of family and property. Since their
emigration to the United States, the Fowlers had
enjoyed uninterrupted happiness and prosperity, and,
aided by his father-in-law's endeavors, McLain had
come to be quite an intelligent and noble man.
Marion found him a good friend, and his family
pleasant acquaintances; and the fact that lie had
once been steward in the Elia family did not affect
his worth in her eyes. It appeared to give him a
slightly malicious pleasure, however, to offer his ser-
vices to his lordship again, and have them declined in
such a bitter way.
The vexation which Elia suffered induced fever,
and lie was removed to the hospital for treatment,
where he remained some time, getting now better,
now worse, as his feelings influenced him. Several
attempts at suicide were frustra ted by his careful
attendants, and the miserable man com~-~pelled to live


332      Ti~ ROMANCE OF A1~ IRISH OIRL~

OR, LIFE IN TWO WORLDS.       333

whether lie would or not. He was by no means
neglected by the good people of Ne~v York, and the
clergy took a praiseworthy interest in him-doubtless
because he was a "miserable sinner." This atten-
tion from the religious portion of the community
gave Elia some encouragement to live. 1k grew
penitent, and confessed his sins; ackno~vledging that
he had done wickedly, and wished to be forgiven.
He even solicited an interview with Miss Cunning-
ham, that he might ask her to pardon him.
Marion was foolishly compassionate upon hearing
of his rumored repentance, and would have granted
his request but for the advice of Mr. Sumner, who
gave it as his opinion that a man of his character
would have to go through a good deal of purifica-
tion before he was fit to have an interview with a
lady of refined feelings. But, he called upon his
lordship and informed him that Miss Cunningham's
forgiveness would be extended to him upon terms
which she would make known to him in writing. As
Elia Slould guess ~vhat those terms would be, he was
not nimch pleased with the offer of pardon on these
grounds, and complained of the want of condescension
on the part of Miss Cunningham, so as to enlist con-
siderable sympathy in his favor from t~hat thoughtless
portion of humanity, who are ready to run after
every excitement and believe in every extravagant
profession. The religious friends of the penitent lord
chided Mr. Sumner for his uncharitableness, and the
British consul called upon him to persuade him into
more consideration for a "wild young man," who
was old enough to be Marion's godfather! But Mr.

Sumner was firm amid reserved. Tile was waiting for
further proof of reform befom;e he made a simpleton
of himself, and another of Miss Cunningham, by lis-
tening to all this persuasion, which he suspected was
for the benefit of the lord and not the man.
In the meantime, Marion was greatly improved in
health and spirits, from the relief afforded by the
arrest of Elia, as well as from the proofs of friend-
ship which she received. She was under infinite
obligations to Mr. Sumner's good feelings and good
sense. It was just the kind of protection she needed,
and did much to restore her sinking faith in an over-
ruling Providence, which does not suffer vice to
triumph forever over virtue. Her Written terms of
pardon were at length conveyed to his lordship,
demanding that he should not only reveal where
John Woods was imprisoned, but take measures for
his release; and promising that wheft Woods should
have reached New York, the prosecution should dis-
appear and he should go at liberty. The document
was carefully prepared, and contained nothing which
a penitent might not readily consent to; but, this
sinner demurred, declaring it out of his power to fiml-
fill such an agreement. Mr. Sumner then quietly
withdrew the proposition, and waited for his re-
covery.
To add to the torture of the sick mali, his wife, who,
it will be remembered, be married under circum-
stances of great singularity, made her appearance on
the stage. She had been informed, by some mis-
chievous person, that it was his desire to see her; and
was very much put out by the reception he gave her,


334

T1Ij~~ ROMANCE OF AN IRISH GIuL

which was anything but amiable or Christian. his
auger and annoyance again seriously retarded his
recovery, while his wife went back to her farm, very
much dejected. It then began to be said, by his
officious champions, that, owing to an accident
received in his childhood, he was not of sound sense:
~. e., that he was foolish, and therefore not charge-
able with crime! The actions of the patient had
given ground enough for such a supposition, it was
true; but, had Elia been well and able to defend
himself, it is presumed he would have rejected that
apology for his conduct. The patronage he received
from clergymen misled Elia to suppose that he was
the subject of their favors in a greater degree than
in merely spiritual affairs. lIe hoped they had some-
thing of the power they would have had in Ireland
of extricating him from his difficulties. His disap-
pointment was very great, to find himself, as soon as
lie was comfortably recovered, remanded to a prison
instead of on his way to Ir'eland, where lie was re-
solved to remain for the future. After what he had
witnessed in the case of the Irish coachman, he had
no disposition to appear before an American tribunal,
to answer to the charge of abducting or trying to
abduct, a young lady. lie found it munch against
his taste to be tried in a common court, without the
1i'i~~ilege of a jury of his peers. In truth, Democracy
was a bitter pill to the vicious and self-indulgent scion
of nobility. Ample opportunity lie had to consider
the differences in politics of the two countries before
a chance was given him to reconsider Marion's pro-
position concerning John Woods. But, when it was

I

OR~ LIFE IN TWO WORLDS.

335

once more presented to him by the quiet and linper-
turbable Sumner he thought it best to accept the
terms without delay.
He made haste to acquaint his father with his pm~e-
dicanient and uro'e to measures to
b  him    take            have
Woods set at liberty: an undertaking which was
really not very easy, after all, there being others
concerned in the ease beside Lord Charles. The 01(1
lord, who had been less culpable in the matter than
his son, knew not how to manage the parties most to
blame without offending them. It was a subject
requiring management to introduce: and he knew
how little hope there was of an Englishman ever
Vepenting of a sin in anything like a wholc.s~uled,
voluntary way.
But, lie bethought himself, at last, that it was pos-
sible lie might persuade the bishop to procure
Wood's release, if lie could make it appeal' that in
that way he could annoy Lady Fre~ilonia; hinting,
at the same time, that, as her ladyship' was so
opposed to Marion's connection with him, it was very
pi'obable she would withhold Marion's property, and
contrive to precut her claim being recognized, if
she was sane enough to oppose it; or even it might
l)e that, if Marion could be restored to Woods in the
United States, she might never attempt to recover
her property, but be glad to settle down to a la-
borious life befittimig her husband and the country of
her adoption.
This kind of argument failed to convince the
bishop; who had an idea that Marion was among time
very people who would assist her all they could; and,


386      TIlE ROMANCE OF AN IRISH GIRL;                                   OR, LIFE IN TWO WORLDS.       33T

if she had John Woods, she would be more likely
than ever to proyc tenacious of her rights. There-
fore he declared his entire ignorance of the where-
abouts of Woods, or that he had any knowledge
whatever concerning him, and resented the insinua-
tion as an insult. This threw Lord Elia into great
consternation; for lie had relied upon the bishop's
codperation more than any other.
The next expedient was to try to procure an inter-
view between Lady Elia and Lady Fredonia. In
this he was successful, the bishop offering no opposi-
tion. Her ladyship's case had received no more at-
tention since the counnissioners had been "smoked
out" so unceremoniously, by the prince of the lower
regions; and, as she had refused to be diugged, she
was in nearly the same state as formerly. So unusual
a thing as a visit from a lady of her own rank, or in-
deed from any but her attendants, was an era in the
late life of Lady Fredonia: and it might have been a
spectacle of interest to indifferent eyes-this meeting
of the two ladies. Both had suffered much from not
dissimilar causes, though in one case there was some
cause to blame the sufferer for her own wrongs, in
the other, none; for Lady Elia was a lovely Christian
woman, though having little energy to overcome the
injustice of her husband with the greater efforts of
goodness.
Lady Fredonia's apartment, as well as herself,
shocked her old neighbor exceedingly. All IMile.
IL's perfumery, recently scattered, coiled not take off
the death-like smell of that dead and moldering air
that had lain as still as the inmate for a time dreadful

to contemplate, the gloom, and the emaciated Ufl(l (IC-
jected appearance of Lady Fredonia so affected lady
Elia that she could not restrain her tears. She saw at
once that if Lady Fredonia had not been insane, it was
not because she had not suffered enough to make her so.
When Lady Elia made known the object of her
visit, the penitent lady would gladly have aided her
in the discovery of Woods, not only on account of
Lord Charles-for whom, in her altered state of
feeling, she had little regard-but, as an act of
justice, and a means of happiness to her daughter.
She was unable to do so, however', having so long
been removed from all knowledge of his fate or any-
thing pertaining to him. If he was not to be found
in Dublin, she knew not where he was; and, as for
aiding in his release, even if she knew by what
enemies at present held, she had no longer means or
influence to do so.
Disappointed and dejected, Lady Elia took leave of
the poor prisoner, as she had no doubt she was, and
returned to the drawing-room, where she found high
words passing between Lord Elia and the bishop.
Sick of the world, which seemed to her to contain
only sin and misery, Lady Elia drew her lord away
and returned to her sorrowful home.
The only child left her, if Charles was ruined by
his American misdemeanors, was a younger son,
whom the father nicknamed Pat, because his mother
allowed him to be born in Ireland. This boy was an
amiable, generous-hearted youth, who, from his re-
semblace to his- mother, and being the younger son,
got little affection from Lord Elia. The old lord's
15


338

TILE ROMANCE OF AN niisii GIRL;

pride had always been in Charles; whose propensity
for always getting into difficulties was looked upon
as evidence of bravery and superior talent. But,
the late disgrace, and the hopeless nature of his case
as he represented it, somewhat changed the 01(1
lord's views, and he began to attach some con-
sequence to the neglected younger son, who, being
now very ill, gave him some reason to fear he might
yet be childless.
Between his concern for Pat and his concern for
Lord Charles, the impatient nobleman allowed him-
self no rest. He was tempted to go to America and
see what could be done in person; but he recollected
that he was old, as well as of very irascible temper,
and doubted the good he should be able to accom-
plish by his presence. He felt much more like con-
descending, to the Yankee lawyer and to Marion
Cunningham, than he had ever thought it possihile to
feel, lie would now be glad to make terms with
them; but their terms were fixed, and lie had no
means of keeping them fully and satisfactorily, with-
out the codpcration of others; whh~h it now seemed
impossible to secure. By turns he cursed the bishop
for encouraging Charles to follow Marion then the
Yankees for being such an independent set, requiring
nothing but what was right, and submitting to
nothing wrong!
"Marion Cunningham," said the irate old lord,
"might as web have been a saint on the plains of
Paradise for all the chance Charles had of getting
her away from the United States. Every upstart
Yankee is glad of an opportunity to annoy an

I

OR, LIFE IN TWO wOuLr)s.

330i

Englishman, and they have the courage and per-
severance of a thousand devils. Their stars and
stripes, flaunted in the face of the British Bull, are
perfectly maddening; I feel like going as crazy as a
bull in the ring at Madrid wheim the Spanish mantle
flies in his face."
Tinis the old nobleman stormed and fumed. One
of his servants, who was not always quite sober, chanc-
ing to notice the tenor of his remarks, took the liberty
of replying that it was "asy to see what was the
trouble with the English in America; shure the
eagles picked out their eyes, that they couldn't see
to take care of themselves-the American eagles
were a bad plague, sure enough 1" Lord Elia was
not in the habit of brooking any interference or
remarks from his servants, yet now his restless humor
made him for once willing to listen to anything that
would divert his thoughts; so lie asked, rather tartly,
"What do yozt know about the Yankees ?"
"Och, and haven't I heard that the horrid crea-
tures breathe through their noses I"
"How else would they breathe, you brute ?-hike
a Paddy, whose mouth is always wide open ?"
"Troth, and it's the whisky he couldn't swallow if
he neVer shut his mouth," said old Tim, somewhat
put out by the insinuation.
"You rascal! you shall drink 'a curse to all the
enemies of England'in a glass of whisky, and shall
swallow it with your mouth open, or i'll flog you
soundly," cried his lordship, at the same time order-
ing Tim to bring the liquor.
Tim was willing enough to make the experiment,


340      THE ROMANCE OF AN IRISH OiRL~                                        OR, LIFE IN TWO WORLDS.        341

as he thought he could" worry it down," in some way
without choking. When he had returned with the
whisky, he filled two glasses as his master directed,
and lifting one was about to drink it off, when his mas-
ter interrupted him. "Stop! you are to drink my
toast-' A curse to all the enemies of England!"'
"I wouldn't like to drink that, your honor, for
shure I think it would take yourself to the bad
place.~~
"What do you mean, insolent !" shouted Lord Elia.
"I begs your pardon, your honor; but it's a
thought of old Tim's that the lords are not the best
friends of England. Ye make slaves of her sons,
and are slaves yourselves to the queen, as I'm a
thinking."
"You see through servants' eyes, sirrah! drink the
toast, I say." Thus commanded, Tim swallowed the
whisky and the sentiment, and contrived not to choke
on either. As he sat down his glass, he made a low
reverence and said: "It's much obliged I am to your
lordship for the condescension, and if your honor
would not take it amiss, Tim would like to tell what's
on his mind about the young master."
"Oh, hold your tongue, you blathering beast,
don't speak to me of Lord Charles. Great is the fool
he has made of himself" he added aside, in an angry
whisper.
"It's not presuming I would be, your lordship; but
if you'll allow me to mention it, I think I know the
way to bring the bishop round."
"The devil! what do you know about the
bishop ?"

"lVhy, you see, your honor, Jim the footman
tould me you had some high words with his reverence
about not wanting to tell where poor John Woods
has gone to, and Jun and the butler and I talked it
oVer, and old Tim isi~'t such a fool, your honor, but
he has some wit left to serve his master with yet."
"Well, sirrah, proceed."
"Let me bring your lordship some more liquor
first, if ye plase; it's a long story and may tire your
honor's patience unless ye have the blessed drink to
get up the heart of ye ;" and Tini made a profound
bow.
"Get out, then, you drunken rascal, and get ano-
ther drink, as I see that is what you want, and be
back here in a trice."
"Yes, your honor," bowed Tim, and sped away
with the lightness of a boy to find the butler. "his
loAlship is getting to be the devil of a good Christ-
ian," said he to that official.
"Och, bad luck to your blarney, Tim," answered
the butler, "it would be as aisy for the ot~tld one to
repaint as hi~ lordship. It is fear that ails him,
indade."
"Thrue for you," said Tim; "but it's the like of this
day I never expected to see. His lordship will let
mc advise hhn, and shure I'll advise him for his good.
Tim's a broth of a boy-you'll see, Mr. Butler."
After 'gossiping awhile with the butler, and getting
into a proper state of confidence by means ~of the
"blessed drink," Tim returned to his master, who
had made up his mind to listen to Tim's suggestions,
in the l1ol)e that he b row a little light on the


342

THE ROMANCE OF' AN IRISH GIRL;

subject nearest his heart. He was too indignant,
however, at having to take advice from a servant, to
endure Tim's complacent manner, and began by
striking Tim with a whip to remind him of his posi-
tion-an act which Tim forgave, knowing his master
was not practiced in the art of condescension, and
ought to have allowances made for any slight mistake
he might make in the attempt.
"What have you to propose, Tim ?" asked Elia,
after making this blunder. "I'll give you a farm if
you can show me how to manage the bishop, as you
say you can."
"Well, your lordship, if you will just tell me to
do the thing, it's all I ask, for I can do it," said Tim,
bravely.
"What do you propose-what do you want to
do ?" asked Elia.
"Why, thou, I only want your honor to get sick
and send for the bishop to comfort your soul, and let
old Tim wait on you, and he'll manage the rest,
never fear. Don't trouble yourself about the busi-
ness. You will have to be a little sick, and a little
in fear of your soul, that is all your honor will have
to do. about it. I'll make his riverence tell your lord-
ship whatever you want to know, see if I don't! It's
not fit that a bishop with 110 noble blood should fret
the likes of yees."
"Well, Tim, I shall be taken sick to-morrow ; and
mind you don't get me into any awkward scrapes;
if you do, I'll flog you to death, by the heavens!
Now, just take the management, since you want it
so much, and mind you manage well."
U

I

OR~ LIFE IN TWO WORLDS.

343

Accordingly, tile old lord was taken ill the next
day, of trouble of mind about his sins and his son's
sills, and the trouble they were all in about every-
thing. Tini sent for the bishop in haste. Kotwith-
Btalldin~    quarrel,          came to
their      IliS holiness     soothe his
guilty soul. While he talked with the sick man, who
groaned with distress-a part of which was real
enough, for lie was full of spite at having to take coun-
sel from his enemy, an odor simYlar to tilat which had
disgusted the lord commissioners began to fill the
roolIl, Wilicli was conveniently closed and darkened
on account of the nervous condition of the patient.
Directly, the door spelled and admitted a character
in keeping with the flavor that heralded his appear-
ance. Neither horns, hoofs, not tail were wantingg
to complete his peculiarities, while the stencil ot~
brimstone and something worse became almost sufl'o-
eating.
"Good day tq your lordship," said the intruder, in
tone of irony. "I have dropped hi to have a word 'in
your consultations. So my friend Ella is troubled
about his soul? Let hini trouble himself no more, for his
soul is taken care of And my pet here, the bishop,
is nQt altogether at em~se, though, like a good Christian,
he comforts Ilis brother! You are hopeful subjects,
both of you-men that I am proud of, sirs, and shall
have the hottest corner~, if you continue to serve faith-
fully. I called to let you know that help is getting
Scarce in my dumninions; some are giving out-too
much pitching about to do for some of the fools who
half did their work in this world. If you would prefer
using the pitchfork to having it used on you, just say


3AA4

THE ROMANCE OF AN IRISH GIRL;

so, and I'll set you down as laborers. The aristocracy,
or those who do not labor, have rather a hard time in
the lower world: better consent now to work. But,
my dears, I am sorry to inform you your time for con-
sidering the matter is short. Whatever you have to
do here you had better attend to directly. First of
all, I advise von to confess to one another what you
have done for my cause during the last few years.
i'll just sit by and keep a reckoning ;" and the smoke
of brimstone issued from his mouth as lie whisked
into a chair.
Old Tim rolled groaning on the floor, while hi~
master set up in bed with a ghastly expression of
fear upon his countenance. The bishop's teeth chat.
tered and his lips were ashen pale. His Satanic Ma-
jesty seemed to enjoy the consternation of the party
very much. "ha, ha, ha!" laughed he, with a loud
snort, "my people like mc better in the distance than
close by. But come now, give the devil his due.
You cannot say but I am a very good sort of master.
I have given you all long lives and plenty of this
world's goods. But, to confess the truth, which I
never like to do, about this matter, there is still a
greater master than I am, and to him I must account
for my success in gaining followers. Come, begin;
you must talk this last term over with me. how
many poor have you beaten to death, or given to your
dogs, Ehia? How many tears do you cause Lady Ehia
daily? And, how is Lady Fredonia, bishop ?-Does her
reason hold out yet? And how is John Woods, by
this time? By the ~vay, my friends, that is a failing
game you are playing. Mariomi Cunningham is too

I

OR~ LIFE IN TWO WORLDS.

3A45

much for us with her daily prayers. Tie that is my
master has consented to take sides with her, and we
are all beaten. Eli, bi~liop, what is the name of his
last prison? You don't like to talk ~vith me, it seems.
Very well, "if you don't answer me respectfully now,
the time will come when YOU will be glad to." An-
other snort, and an uneasy movement of the cloven
feet. The bishop Was gasping for breath. lie cvi-
Uently wished to speak, but could not. At last he
uttered, with a sort of groan, the following question:
"How much time will I gain if I confess and repent?"
"Bali! I don't want ~,ou to REPENT. If you con-
fess, you may gain one year of time. Confession
stands confoundedly in my way; but after all, it is al-
lowed to some of my followers to benefit themselves
by it."
"Must I confess to-to you?" gasped the bishop.
"No, not to me. You and Elia there talk it over
with one another while I take notes for judgment.
Quick! I must soon be gone, and shall not call again
until you have repaid my visit. Even the devil has
some manners."
The bishop began rapidly to run over the most enor-
mous of his sins with trembling lips and quivering
chin; and Elia laid muttering and occasionally sneez-
ing as the smoke stimulated his nostrils too much for
endurance. None of the trio of worthies who were
honored by this visit retained self-possession enough
to undertake to investigate the reality of thejr visitor's
character-so true is it that "conscience doth make
cowards of us all."
Presently the bishop ceased his jmnbhing confes-
15*

(


346      TILE ROMANCE OF AN IRISH GIRL;                                      OR~ LIFE IN TWO WORLDS.       34T

sion ,and amidst a more intense cloud of smoke the
horned head vanished; though, whether ~through the
door, or ceiling, or floor, the company c~uld not tell.
Thu was the first to recover his self-possession.
lie hastened to pour over himself some holy water,
and mutter prayers in irreverent haste. His master
and the bishop, not having faith in the power of holy
water, had no such easy purification. The weight
upon their consciences was not so soon disposed of.
As soon, however, as the air cleared up a little from
Tim's opening a window, and they found themselves
really unharmed, Elia called for wine, the nourish-
ment of which gave them strength to contemplate
their dreadful situation. Elia had never meant to go
to hell~-he intended to repent when he got done sin-
ning, and rat her thought that, in consequence of his
great sins and necessary great repentance, he should
be considered quite an acquisition by heaven, which
ought to be proud of such a conquest. As for con-
sulting the bishop, after what had just taken place,
he feared it would not benefit him materially; still,
he thought he might ask him a few leading questions
as to the faith necessary unto salvation. The bishop,
instead of being in the mood for rendering consolation
to others, felt that he needed it himself. Of what use
- to him was his commission from church or state?
The devil could claim him, did claim him; and he
feared one year more would terminate his chances of
a final repentance, even if that was now possible.
Inspired by that need of sympathy which cowards
always feel, he recounted to Elia the private history
of his life-a history which coming from a "man of

God," made his hardened listener shudder. Elia en-
treated him to take a Bible and look for some encou-
raging passages for both of them: but the more he
looked, the more the whole book seemed filled with
promises to widows and orphans, to the poor and af-
flicted, to the meek and lowly of heart.
At last lie threw down the book in despair and sat
in ~loomy defiance of the mandates of 1mea~ven. When
a man is fully convinced lie shall nevem~ be any better,
lie is always sure to become worse very rapidly. So
the bishop took to proclaiming that he was not afraid
of the devil and all his legions. Old Tim, who had
been a witness of all this humiliating scene, now
undertook to comfort his superiors; but his efforts
were ludicrously wide of the point-so Inuch so, that
his master became suddenly enraged and struck at
him with his ever ready whip. No sooner had he
recovered himself from this blow than another fol-
lowed, and the old servant crouched on the floor.
"-you, for your insolence 1" cried the enraged
master; "I shall rule on earth if I have to - serve
in h-."
In an interlude of quiet, the bishop repeated:
"We have done those things we ought not to have
done; we have left undone these things which we ought
to have done, and there is no health in us." But the
words sounded like mockery in his cars, and the next
instant lie had given way to actual blasphemy.
In the midst of this confusion, a servant announced
the queen's chancellor. Here was a new difficulty.
What a state of things to which to admit such a wit-
ness! Ehia's body servants were hastily summoned


348

THE ROMANCE OF AN IRIsH GIRL ;

to put him in order to see guests of this quality, and
rid him of the sulphurous~ smell which still clung to
his clothing. The bishop could not well retreat with.-
out meeting the chancellor; yet, he was in no fit con-
dition either. He was sick, and could hardly stand
to have his clothes well brushed and perfumed. He
felt that at no other time could he have been so
unwilling to meet the ILord Chancellor and the
queen's commissioners, as he now was, in his present
state of mind ; still, he knew that lie could not escape,
for they would not leave Ireland without paying him
a visit. He made the best of a very bad state of
affairs, and paid his respects to Lord Elia's guests,
before returning home.
The bishop's appearance did not fail to excite
remark. 'He was haggard and pale in the extreme,
and not altogether free from that infernal odor which
doubtless they had heard of his having had, on a
former occasion. He did not fail to mark the sur-
prise exhibited in their countenances, and it cut
deeper and sharper than a sharp sword into his writh-
ing nerves. Thoroughly disheartened and miserable,
lie excused himself from joining JLord Elia's guests at
dinner, and prepared to go home immediately.
Would that lie could escape to the ends of the earth !
but escape was now impossible.
Just as he was about leaving, Lord Elia took him
aside, to tell him that " all sin had broke loose in
New York ; that their names were used with freedom
in connection with the story of Marion Cunningham
and his son, who was forever disgraced in the eyes
of all those who were influenced by the Yankee

I

N

OR, LIFE IN TWO WORLDs.

349

nation. A perfect storm of curses were let loose on
-the American people, Marion Cunninghami and Lord
Charles. This was no comfort to the bishop. He
thought of his own domestic affairs, and that in all
likelihood the world soon would be discussing them
openly. Alh, sooner than he dreamed ; for already
it was indeed exulting over a precious new piece of
gossip, furnished by himself.
Elia called Newv York a city of refuge for the whole
earth. "Except Africa," interrupted Fredonia, glad
to find an exception.
" Not even excepting her, if ever the spirit of eman-
cipation gets ground there ; for not a nigger would
remain in the British possessions, if he could choose
the United States."
"Well," sighed the bishop,. "I suppose God
ordained this City of Refuge, as you call it, from the
beginning of the world. It seems to be needed by
the many that flock to it from all Christendom and
heathendom, too, for that matter."
"It is very queer lie should have chosen such
unbelieving men as Franklin, Jefferson, Alien and
others to do his work in establishing this retreat for
the world," remarked Elia, sarcastically. "They
were infidels of the deepest dye."
" Not so remarkably singular, either," answered
Fredonia, with bitterness. " England might have
established herself on the rock of Christ ; but, instead
of that foundation, she has adopted an immense
spiritual humbug, which all candid men can see, and
many are made infidels by it. What Christ himself
would have denounced, we are required to believe


!t

350

TUE ROMANCE OF AN IRISH GIRL;

and practise. The essence and pith of our doctrine
is to believe such things as are for the temporal and
pecuniary interests of the Church. Yes, truly, we
ought to be proud of the head and founder of the
Church of England-the virtuous and pious henry
the Eighth, who continually bowed down, not to his
God, but his mistresses."
"You utter treason," said Elia.
"Don't be alarmed for me," sneered Fredonia,
"nor look on me with horror, because I know the
truth. It is knowing the truth and not living it, that
has sold me to the devil. What sort of archbishop
did the supreme head of the Church first ordain?
The qualifications he had are not those found in the
House of Lords of England. Men will hate me, and
be horrified at my wickedness, because I have failed
to cherish my wife; but I am no worse than my
peers.~~
Elia was not flattered by this last remark. lie
roared at the bishop like a lion, and swore furiously
that he was a miserable traitor, whose talk he would
not endure.
"You may try me," answered Fredonia, coolly,
"by the statutes of the old Saint Henry VIII.
He is the standard of morals with lords und church-
men."
"Son of the' Infernal I" cried Elia, wrathfully,
"have you no respect for God nor the queen ?" lie
laid his hand heavily on the bishop's shoulder, as if
he would like to tear him.
"Be quiet, my ln'otlier," said Fredonia, smiling
sarcastically; "and don't fall out with your father's

OR, LIFE IN TWO WORLDS.

351

son. Meantime, farewell !" and he slowlydeparted
from the house, where confusion reigned, to make his
own a scene no less revolting. As he went toward
home, he leaned wearily in the corner of his carriage
and tried to think clearly of his situation. Should
he turn Catholic? He had a mind to; it would give
him a chance to retire from the word's scornful laugh
or condemnation. Beside, men just as intellectual as
himself believed the pope could defy the devil, or
even break a contract with one. Why not avail
himself of the belief? He should be no worse off-
he might be better. Why had he allowed the greed
of gain to betray him into the snares of Satan?
Was tIme "harvest past and the summer ended" for.
ever with him?


352

THE ROMANCE OF AN IRISH GIRL ;

-CHAPTER XXVII'.
WHN~ the bishop reached home, he found IMlle.
N- all smiles to receive him; but her countenance
looked ineffably hideous to him. -Her graceful and
supple movements filled him with horror like the-
crawling of a snake. Her black eyes glittered like
unholy fires, and her voice filled him with aversion.
Perhaps she never had appeared to him so truly as she
did at that moment, when he was heated with a ter-
rible fever of heart and brain. She wished to minis-
ter to him, perceiving his condition ; but he would
not allow her to come near him. " Despair, like a
strong man armed " had possession of him. Heaven
seemed closed ; earth undesirable ; hell yawning
before him.
It soon became apparent to the household that he
was suffering from a brain fever; and,' as his ravings
were of a nature to bring reproach upon him, it was
thought best to keep him as secluded as possible.
But his sins had found him out, and his "refuges of
lies " were being swept away. The perversity with
which he had misconstrued the Sci-iptures all his
life came upon him now, to his own destruction'.
Foolish man ! that had studiously endeavored to
impose upon his own judgment, and refused to be
convinced of an error to which he could not shut his
eyes. No longer could he have read with his former
complacency: "As I live, saithm the Lord, I have no

I

I

OR, LIFE IN TWO WORLDs.

353

pleasure in the death of the wicked ;" nor have
exulted in believing, " There is none that doetlh good.
no, not one." Horrible visions tormented himi ; ter-
rible expressions continually issued from his mouth.
None of his heart secrets were safe with him now;-
he painted them in all their worst deformity.
Mile. N was distracted. The bishop accused
her of all she was guilty of, and even more. There
was no longer any concealment; for, although~ they
were the ravings of a man in delirium, no one could
doubt the truthfulness of his confession and accusation
who knew of their possible relations toward each other.
When not accusing himself or his paramour, the
patient was giving evidence of such obscene or pro-
fane toasts as he had often betrayed at dinners, among
his peers.
The Catholic churcii seemed to give him a great
deal of uneasiness, beckoning him on, and then
retreating. In vain he apologized for having drunk
"to the pope in -, and the devil throwing priests
at him -" the offended church would not be recon-
ciled.
By a singular coincidence, there were quite a num-
ber of the Irish gentry in the north, at this time, and
many in the immediate neighborhood of Lord Elia's
estate, who presented themselves at his castle on
business with the queen's chancellor. Among them
was Lord Potter, and also the Lord. Lieutenant of
Ireland, and his chancellor. The condition of Bishop
SFredonia was a subject of interest and feeling among
these, who were principally Protestants. The leaders
of the church were much affected to hear that his


54

TIlE ROMANCE OF A~ ~I5II GIRr2

mind was in such a hopeless state, and prayers were
said by some of the clcrgy, almost continually; the
Rev. Mr. hamilton excusing himself; on account of
ill-health, from having much to do with these cere-
monies, and condemning the excitement as being too
met kod&amp;tical.
As all the proper persons were there, it was suggest-
ed that Lady Fredonia's case should now be attended
to; and the chancellor go in person to visit her lady-
ship. Dr. Wilkins, though not on good terms with the
family, was chosen for his professional skill, and partly
by the influence of Lord Potter, who had good reasons
for desiring his attendance. The physician who
usually attended the bishop was unable to procure
him any abatement of the delirium, and Dr. Wilkins
was desired to see the bishop, also.
Before calling upon the sick man, the lords thought
it best to send the doctor to administer some quiet-
uig medicine; and, accordingly, he went, though
with apparent reluctance. The outlaw reputation
which the doctor had, made him but slow to attend
upon those persons thronoim whom he had acquired
such a name. No sooner did the bishop behold his
new attendant, than he sprang up, shrieking an~
bounding from the bed, caught the doctor by his
throat, in a maniac manner quite startling, even to
the old doctor's nerves. But his skill in managing
such patients soon enabled him to get the bishop
again upon the bed, where he quietly held him, look-
ing him fairly in the eye until the insane spirit was
subdued. Once subdued, the doctor proceeded to
give him medicine, and warn him not to enact any

I

I

OR, LIFE IN TWO WORLDS.

355

more of his extraordinary feats. Just as long as his
conqueror was in the rooni, the sick man lay ~cr-
feetly quiet; but no sooner did lie notice the doctor's
absence, than he sprang again out of bed. Going to
a little cabinet, he opened it, and seizing a vial, drank
down the whole of its contents. The only servant in
the apartment beholding the quick agony which
took hold on hiu~, ran to look at the label, and found
it read, Aqua fortis. He had swallowed a large
quantity of the deadly stuff which had been kept for
testing metals.
A servant came running to find Dr. Wilkins, in
all haste, and the doctor, inrigining his patient had
escaped from them, cried out:
"Where has he gone to, now
Faith, doctor, he's gone, indeed !"
"Where, where, you fool ?"
"Och, doctor, I'm not a fool. The, bishop has
swallowed some stuff thnt'll send him through 11111'-
gatory to the other place, snapping and crackling."
So much for the affection of those who serve vice
and injustice!
When Dr. Wilkins reached the sick-room, he saw
the first part of the man's report confirmed; as for
the other, lie did not wish to think or say. lie did
not stop to mourn for the man who had willfully put
off his mortality in so cowardly a manner; or, if not
done in cowardice, in the madness brought on by his
own consciousness of guilt.
Not a servant in the house was willing to touch
the dead man. They all had a superstition about
suicides, that their souls never rest; and dared not


0
O.A)     TIlE ROMANCE OF AN IRISH GIRL;

come near the tenement so lately vacated by the
doomed spirit. In three hours from the death of the
bishop, not a servant remained except the old woman
who waited upon Lady Fredonia, and the steward.
Not for worlds would they venture to be found there
after sundown, lest all the terrible things the deliri-
ous brain had conjured up should appear to them.
Dr. Wilkins gave orders that Lady Fredonia should
be brought to the apartment where her dead husband
lay. The scene w, a severe but sure test of
her sanity. When the doctor gave this order, the
steward respectfully suggested that the doctor should
go in person, as he did not like to take the responsi-
bility of removing her ladyship, under the present
perplexing circumstances. This suggestion suiting the
doctor's wishes, was instantly complied with. Ac-
companied by this one person, Dr. Wilkins pro-
ceeded to the prison of Lady Fredonia, through dark
and moldy passages, fit to conduct one to the shades
of death. Upon presenting himself so unexpectedly
within the gloomy walls of her apartment, a sensa-
tion was produced like that of opening a long-closed
tower, and startling from their sleep the lazy bats
that cling to the dusty ceiling. Only a pint move-
ment and flutter of garments betokened life in that
dun place. The dead, musty smell of the air turned
the doctor sick, and the steward shrank back appalled
at the tomb-like aspect of this grave of the living.
The old attendant grown silent and moody, like her
mistress, hobbled up with a frightened air to meet
the intruders; while her ladyship roused herself
slowly to recognize her old acquaintance, which she

OR, LIFE IN TWO WORLDS.

did only by a distant bow. So nearly were life and
reason wrecked by her continued sufferings, that she
scarcely seemed any longer conscious of the histories
or incidents connected with those she had once been
well acquainted with. The doctor approached hur
couch, and, sitting down beside her, told he her had
come to inquire after her health, and hoped to find
her well enough to make a visit to the room of the
bishop, and afterward to the drawing-room, asking
her if she would come.
"No, Doctor Wilkins, I have no more desire to
leave this place till I am carried out to my grave,"
she answered with indifference.
"But, we have need of your ladyship. There is
important business to be transacted at the castle to-
day, and it will be necessary to have your ladyship
present," reasoned the doctor.
"lily business is all settled, long ago, sir; you will
leave me to myself if you please, for I am not able
to be disturbed with any new things ;" whispered
Lady Fredonia, nervously.
"Your ladyship is mistaken about your ability to
take part in any affairs of yourself or others. I have
news for you. In the first place I have to tell you
that I have heard from Marioii lately, and she sends
her love to you, if, by any chance I could bring it.
You see I have brought it, and I have other news for
you. The l~i8hOp i8 dead I"
The doctor was not surprised that the intelligence
he had to convey should cause her ladyship to faint.
If she had not been thus affected in her feeble state
of health he would have thought her reason impaired;


358      TIlE ROMANCE OF AN IRISH GIRL;

but this extreme sensibility was an evidence of the
ability of her mind to comprehend a fact of interest
to herself and to estimate its importance. After
waiting for her restoration to consciousness, and fur-
ther explaining the late event that so greatly altered
her future condition, the doctor had her attendant
prepare her for removal. The commissioners, who
had been several hours in the house, were to witness
her entrance into the apartment where the dead
bishop was lying uncared for by his disaffected or
superstitious servants. When they beheld her lady-
ship approach, leaning on the arm of the doctor, and
supported on the other side by the steward, pale and
emaciated but calm and dignified, they were struck
with pity and a conviction of the injustice under
which she had been suffering. Indeed, it was impos-
sible not to be affected with so sad and touching a
spectacle as this helpless and inj ured lady.
The gentlemen who awaited her appearance, accom-
panied her with profound respect to the door of her
late husband's room, as they had to fulfill their com-
mission ~s examiners. Here pausing a moment, all
were startled to hear the voice of a woman within,
uttering the most fearful imprecations, and upbraid-
ing the dead in the most insulting language. The
steward threw open the door, and there stood iMille.
N.-, in an attitude of despair and frenzy, curs-
ing and denouncing her former lover in terms of
indescribable passion. As soon as she perceived the
intruders, and that Lady Fredonia was among them,
she sprang shrieking to where the bishop's pistols
were hying, and, snatching one, discharged it at

358

OR, LIFE IN TWO WORLDS.       3~9
her ladyship. It just missed its aim, wounding the
steward's right arm.. As the gentlemen sprang for-
ward t9 secure her, and thus prevent further mis-
chief from her insane despair, she eluded them by
thi'owing herself from the chamber window, falling
nearly thirty feet to the ground, killing herself almost
instantly. Thus ended another life of crime. We
may 110W add, to close her history, that it was subse-
quently learned she had once been married, and
ended a disgraceful and turbulent married life by
poisoning her husband and infant child-after wh ~h
she escaped to England, and from thence found her
way eventually into the bishop's household, as we
have seen.
The effect of all this excitement upon Lady Fre-
donia was to throw her into a serious illness. None
doubted her being in the full possession of reason.
The condition of affairs in the house rendered it
necessary for the chancellor of the Lord Lieutenant to
remain and take charge of the bishop's funeral, and
whatever other business relating to him might seem
necessary. His daughters soon arrived, but were too
much overcome with grief and mortification to be
able to take any part in the final arrangement of his
concerns. He was taken to Dublin to be buried with
all the honors of church and state; and the Irish
"Ecclesiastical Council," in a fit of benevolence,
absolutely appropriated, in his name, quite a large
sum of money to be spent in furnishing tobacco and
whisky for "wakes" to be held in his honor!
Mhle. N~ was buried in Benmare churchyard
with some respect, notwithstanding the law does not


360

I

THE ROMANCE OF AN nIsHi GIRL ;

allow a man who has stolen a pig or a sheep the bene-.
fit of the clergy. This woman, covered with crime
and shame, because she had been a bishop's mistress,
was more honorably dealt with. .
To say that either- was very sincerely regretted
by those Who know them best, would be untrue.

OR, LIFE IN TWO WORLDs.

361

CHAPTER XXVIII.
LADY FREDONIA's life was for some weeks almost
despaired of. Great physical exhaustion and the
accumulation of calamities, or rather of horrors, well
nigh overcame her little remaining vitality. A
stormy life had she led from the hour her father gave
her away to an unloved lord; yet, she. desired now
to live long enough to prove how much she regretted
the serious faults she had committed. Though hum-
ble and penitent, she yet knew nothing of the sooth-
ing and strengthening influences of Christ's blessed
teachings. Ignorance of God's requirements stood
in the way of hjer .becoming a consistent Christian.
She had always believed there were two churches of
true having power-the church of England, first, and
tha-t of Rome, next. The original purity of the lat-
ter church had always been taught her; she believed
its framework right, though filled in with bad mate-
rial. At least, that was what she had heard from the
clergy ; but it could not be said she fully compre-
hended their approval or disapproval of IRomish doc-
trines. She desired now to know the truth. But
here was an archbishop of her most respected church,
whose sins she had good reason to feel sure of, dying
under disgraceful circumstances, yet honorably men-
tioned and interred with royal magnificence. In
America so flagrant an example of corruption would
have been held up as a warning to others ; but in
16


862      THE ROMANCE OF AN IRISH GIRL;
England or Ireland the common people were not
allowed to speak of such sins in their superiors.
What, then, was the worth of such religion, except
as a shield to rank and power? Speaking ill of a
bi shop was the greatest sin in the catalogue, unless it
was to speak ill of the queen. A Methodist clergy-
man had called on Lady Fredonia during her illness
and conversed with her upon the state 'of her religious
impressions; but his teaching of doctrines seemed
new, and as it was what is deemed somewhat dis.
reputable, in Great Britain, namely di88entinfi, she
dared not give it the same attention as if the same
doctrine had emanated from the established clerg~r.
So, also, priest Smith, a great favorite in the neigh-
ix~rhood, who had been in one place thirty years, and
had christened a great many Protestant children in
spite ot~ his Catholic faith, wished to administer com-
fort to the troubled soul; but nothing seemed really
to engage her ladyship's belief. The Protestant
clergy gave little attention to her condition, and all
the old friends of the family who had courted her in
her happier or more prosperous days, seemed to
have forgotten that she still lived.
In this unsettled and comfortless state, Lady Fre-
donia lived, day after day, suffering in body and
spirit the recompense of a wasted youth. Every
word spoken by persons about the halls was sent to
her apartment by that nymph, Echo, as also every
step upon the marble pavements, and like the witch
that she was, she made every sound reverberate like
thunder on the delicate ears of the invalid.
Lord Elia sometimes came over to see about' her

OR, LIFE IN Two wORLDs.       363

ladyship's affairs. The rough old lord was as profane
as ever when the knowledge of the chancellor's pro-
ceedings came to his ears. Though nothing unu-
sual happened, and though he was disposed to
think everything right that proceeded from such high
authority, he could not forbear a sneer at the title of
holy man, as applied to his old friend the bishop.
"Holyindeed!" ejaculated the profane old man. "A
son of perdition he assuredly was, though he did
utter a word or two of truth that last time he was at
my castle; but, I got angry then and would not
listen, and I have no doubt the chancellor would deal
severely with me did he hear me say what is in my
mind. But, blast me if I will not say it, if I take a
notion, to some of the clergy! Of course a bishop
is a holy man, and can do no wrong; because the
queen is the fountain of office, and pretends to be
the fountain of justice; her crown is the reservoir
from whence right and equity are conducted by such
channels as she shall prescribe. Therefore, whoever
speaks slightingly of any of these, speaks disrespect-
fully of her, that is of the church's head, and the
sovereign of Great Britain, and is subject to such
punishment, extending to life or limb, as the council
shall see fit to order. I may take the name of God
in vain, as I often do, and subject myself only to a
small fine': or, I may pay a larger amount and blas-
pheine to any extent I like, to indulge my humor.
But, I must be careful how I use the queen's name,
or speak of any of her officers. A 'God bless me,'
will not undo this piece of mischief as it will the
other. Ah, well, Fredonia might have done better


364

TIlE ROMANCE OF AN IRISH GIRL;

than to go kill himself. I don't believe it was the
devil who called on us, after all: I think we must
have all been drinking."
But, if Lord Elia had any doubts about the iden-
tity of the devil who had appeared to him, the Irish
in that neighborhood had not. Old Tim, who, it will
be readily guessed, was in the confidence of some
mischievous person, himself was not quite sure whe-
ther the appearance was real or not; and, of course,
the instigator of the plot did not find it necessary to
enlighten him. The bishop's death and the other
accompanying events gave plausibility to the story,
and it spread like wildfire among the credulous
IRoman Catholics, who refused to "wake" him, in
consequence. All sorts of marvellous and horrible
tales were in circulation about the deceased. Some
even affirmed they could hear the rushing as he
descended, whirling, down the sides of the awful pit!
An Irishman, whose pretty daughter had been the
object of flattering attentions from the bishop, and
who could only bite his lips and mutter while he
lived, now that he was dead revenged himself on his
memory by telling how the bishop had seemed to
him to look like the evil one-how he had smelt the
fumes of purgatory upon him long before he died-.
that the servants at the castle had almost been
strangled by the burning brimstone.
Lady Fredonia's case was freely discussed. Some
pitied, while others, remembering her old hard-
heartedness, rejoiced or pronounced her sufferings
just; while Marion began to have many friends and
advocates among those who dared to speak out. The

OR, LIFE IN TWO WORLDS.

365

case of John Woods had not quite been forgotten,
and the suggestions with regard to his fate were as
Wild and fanciful as the rest of their speculations.
Thus the bishop became the subject of universal
notice in his death, but the honor was of a doubtful
nature as far as the testimony of the common people
was concerned;, and the sincerity of his peers might
reasonably be doubted, also, since to many of them
his policy and purposes must have been apparent.
Lady Fredonia was destined to learn yet more of
the purity of the religion professed by the clergy of
the Established Church. Upon becoming partially re-
covered from her illness, she desired to partake of the
Lord's Supper, and sent for Mr. Hamilton as the
person whose duty it was to administer it. Mr.
Hamilton, however, made excuses and avoided the
castle, whether from a consciousness of having partici-
pated in the bishop's sins, or from fear of the in-
fluences which were said to beset the ph~ce, is not
known. Failing to secure this gentleman's services,
Lady Fredonia sent for Mr. Reade, rector of the church
in the parish adjoining, who also "wished to be ex-
cused." He thought Mr. Hamilton ought to go.
This reluctance to administer religious consolation
to the sick made considerable talk in the churches.
Already a good many in Mr. Hamilton's parish had
gone over to the Methodists, since it was perceived
by the Protesfants that the Methodist forms were
much more in accordance with Irish character and
temperament than any other in the Protestant faith:
therefore, it was a great oversight in the rector to
neglect any duty at a time when the church was

F;


366     THE ROMANCE OF AN IRISH GIRL;
losing its influence as it then was. Mr. Hamilton
was reproved for his reluctance, and commanded by
his superiors to administer the Lord's Supper to Lady
Fredonia if she desired it. Thus coerced, the rector
proceeded to the castle. Taking the direction of the
wind into consideration, that no breath of contagion
might reach him from Lady Fredonia, he put the ele-
ments on a board and thrust them into a window of her
ladyship's room, saying: "Take, eat this bread which
is the Lord's body broken for you: this do in remeni-
brance of me until I come ;" and afterward the cup
in the same manner, repeating the customary prayers
on the outside of the window. This cowardly insult
affected Lady Fredonia very greatly. However, she
took the symbols in meekness, glad to do anything to
show her humility and sincerity.
Great was the change in this man's manner since,
in Lord Cunningham's day, he had thought it an
honor to christen his child.
Seeing the manner in which her ladyship was
deserted by her peers and her servants, Dr. Wilkins
had taken the responsibility of procuring such
service as she needed; and among others had pre-
vailed upon Mrs. Woods, the kind nurse who had
saved Marion's life, and whose son she had so injured,
to come and attend upon her sick-bed. This act of
Christian forgiveness on the part of Mrs. Woods did
much to save her ladyship from bitter unbelief. She,
together with the old doctor, were in Lady Fredonia's
room when the ceremony of administering the Sacra-
ment wa~ gone through with in such a shamefully
mocking manner. The doctor would have sworn

OR, LIFE IN TWO WORLDS.        307

after his usual fashion, buyout of respect to the in-
sulted lady, refrained, and quoted Scripture for her
consolation quite like a minister; while the good
Christian woman, whose sincerity had enabled her to
forgive her enemies so generously, took every pains
to lead her ladyship's muind in the right direction.
Nor was all this true piety lost upon her ladyship.
Her troubled and weary spirit found that consolation
in this gentle and nuostentatious Christianity which
she had never hoped to find on earth; and those
days of languishing and pain which scoured her
feeble body were blessed with health and strength to
her soul. The only desire of her heart now was to
see her child, whose life had been passed in exile
from her-to hear from her lips that all affection for
her mother had not been blotted out by this long and
bitter estrangement.


368      THE ROMANCE OF AN IRI5H GIRL;                                    OR, LIFE IN TWO WORLDS.        369

CHAPTER XXIX.
How this wish was likely to be gratified we sha1l
discover by watching the course of events in Ame-
rica. It will have been surmised, no doubt, that
Marion was kept apprised of the condition of affairs
in and about Cunningham Castle. Allen's untiring
vigilance and ready skill in converting every idle
superstition to his purpose, enabled him to make her
conversant with passing events, as they occurred, and
the death of the bishop and the circumstances attend-
ing it soon became known to her. Ever since the
imprisonment of Elia she had been entertaining the
wildest hopes of soon meeting her*lover, and the news
she received from Ireland tended to confirm this idea.
The natural effect of this state of expectation and
suspense was to keep her in an unhealthy state of
nervous excitement. If Mr. Sumner hinted at the
thought of a failure in procuring the restoration of
Woods, she was immediately plunged into the slough
of despond, from which nothing could arouse her but
a change in the tone of his expectations, real or af.
fected. The only other subject that had the power,
to gain her interest was the mention of her mother's
condition, and the fact that John's mother was recon-
ciled to her ladyship. This suggested to her mind
such pleasant intercourse to be enjoyed in future, that
it filled her heart with delight. A knowledge of the
circumstances, now seemingly so favorable to all her

hopes, had given her reason to believe in the happi-
ness that was in store for her. To Sheldon Brown,
to the Fowlers, and to Mr. Sumner's family had she
communicated them, and received from these friends
the liveliest sympathy.
Once or twice only had anything occurred to give
her reason to apprehend any further difficulty with
persons in Great Britain. These occasions were when
some of the British officials in the United States had
called upon her at Mr. Sumner's to question her about
the terms upon which Lord Charles Elia might be
discharged. From past experience she had learned
to decline any conversation with these dignitaries in
person, and to refer them to Mr. Sumner, whose clear,
cool, determined judgment and manner had the effect
to send them about their business without much ado.
But, as if the fates had selected her for every
species of annoyance, her pleasant anticipations were
all at once scattered to the winds by having a writ
served on her, commanding her return to the king-
dom at once, and under the great seal, making the
command peremptory. This was a new cause for ap-
prehension, and Marion, impressed with the power of
this writ, would have set out immediately to present
herself to the queen, but that again her counsel inter-
fered to prevent such a compliance with what he con-
sidered an unjust demand. Marion knew that for con-
tempt of the queen's prerogative her lands could be
seized until her return, and that she was liable to fine
and imprisonment should she ever present her~clf to
claim them. There seemed to her but one alterna-
tive, to petition the queen in her court of chancery,
'6t~


370      THE ROMANCE OF AN IRISH GIRL
where her chancellor will decide from grace and not
from compulsion, whether the petition shall be
granted or not, to allow her to remain in the United
States. By such an act she acknowledged herself a
subject, which she was reluctant to do. But, Mr.
Sumner made known to her majesty, through the
proper medium, that it was Miss Cunningham's desire
to remain in the United States for the present; also
to reside permanently; and hoped it would not be
displeasing to her majesty. He believed, also, that
a misunderstanding must be the cause of the corn-
mand, and earnestly prayed to be permitted to ex-
plain away any such misapprehension through the
means of mutual agents. It will not be unfair to add
that Mr. Sumner took the liberty of giving a little
polite advice as to the wa~ ~n which the English gov-
ernment demanded the return of English citizens in
the United States.
In due course of time the reply came. It was in
keeping with the first requisition. Miss Cunning-
ham was informed that there could be no mistake;
and that, aside from the attribute of sovereignty, the
law ascribed to the queen in her political capacity
absolute perfection. The queen can do no wrong;
and is not only incapable of doing, but of thinking
wrong; and no folly or weakness can attach to roy-
alty. Puffendorf declares that a subject has no way
to compel a prince or princess to give him his due
when they shall choose to withhold it. This expla-
nation being given, the command was repeated for
Miss Cunningham's return to the kingdom.
Upon the reception of this precious document,

OR, LIFE IN Two WORLDS.        371

Marion was once more in despair, and gave way1to
more immoderate grief than was her custom when
meeting a new trial. Her counsel was much vexed
both by this feeling and the occasion of it; and rather
sternly bade her go read the declaration of indepen-
dence, then to realize what it had cost to maintain it.
"Behold," said he, "your rights, and go and enjoy
them." "But I shall lose my inheritance," cried
Marion, again in despair at the thought of so much
sorrow and so many losses. "Your inheritance !"
ejaculated Mr. Sumner. "He~'e is your inheritance
-such as every true American has :-~--the right and
the liberty to seek his happiness in his own way, and
to acquire a conipetency or fortune in any occupation
he is fitted for or may choose." But Marion did not
feel like earning a fortune before she began to enjoy
it, when she ought to have one without delay; and
the disappointment caused a passionate fit of crying.
"Take her to her room, wife," said he; "I cannot
bear women's crying ;" and thither Marion went, ac-
compained by her friend. "It is not the fortune, so
much," sobbed Marion, "but how can I now go to
see my mother, or Mrs."-- and here she broke
down again, not being able to speak the name of
John's mother, now that she could never hope to see
her. Mrs. Sumner let her cry as much as she liked
-judging rightly that the best way to brighten the
sky was to discharge the rain from the clouds.
When Marion became more composed, she wished
to see her counsel and talk with him about the laws
of allegiance. In answer to her questions, Mr. Sum-
ner informed Marion that her birth upon English soil


372      THE ROMANCE OF AN IRISH GIRL
laid her under perpetual obligatioiis to the crown, if
she wished to recognize English laws.
"What, not unless I am under it ?" she inquired.
"Not any more than you are under United States
laws in England ?"
"There is a difference," said Mr. Sumner; "an
American away from home is bound by no restraint;
he is at liberty to adopt any country he may choose
No man, except one elected to office, takes an oath to
support the Constitution, while every subject of Great
Britain is bound to sustain the crown, whether in
office or not."
"I should think that a residence in another coun-
try under another government, and having sworn alle-
giance to another sovereign, would release a subject
from duty to the queen," said Marion.
Mr. Summer brought a volume of Blackstone and
read some passages under the head of "Natural
Allegiance," which the law declares is due from all
men born in the king's dominions, from the moment
of their birth. Natural allegiance is there defined as
a debt of gratitude which can never be forfeited, can-
celled or altered, by any change of time, place, or
circumstances; nor by anything but the united con-
currence of the legislature. An Englishman who
removes to France or China owes the same a~egi-
ance there as at home, and twenty years hence as
now; for it is a principle of English law that a natu-
ral born subject of one prince cannot, by any act of
his own, nor even by swearing allegiance to aiiother,
put off or discharge his natural allegiance, which is
intrinsic and primitive, and antecedent to any other,

OR~ LIFE IN Two WORLDS.        373

and cannot be divested without the concurrent act
of that prince to whom his allegiance is due, as the
English crown. It makes no difference who lie
sweai4s his allegiance to; that is said to 1)e his own
act, and if he chooses to entangle himself by owning
service to 'two masters, it is declared unreasonable
that by such voluntary act he should be loosed from
the bonas by which he is allied to his natural prince.
Marion was confounded by the discovery of the
bondage into which she had been born, by her
nativity on English soil. "1 do not know why," she
said, "an Englishman is not as much an object of
suspicion to your politicians as an Irish Roman
Catholic. I cannot see much difference between
church and state government in this; for the pope
could not exact more than is expressed in the decla-
rations you have just read."
Mr. Sumner explained that, although there was
little or no difference, the Protestants found less diffi-
culty in getting along together, because their faith
was the same; and, Englishmen being Protestants,
worked themselves more easily into American society,
though their hearts might be as full of opposition to
its liberal principles as possible.
It was no wonder, Marion thought, that some
minds were led to speculate on the consequences of
permitting such an influx of foreign sentiment. But
Sumner laughed at her remark, and said, gaily, "as
we managed to subdue the old Lion, w will take
care of her whelps without any difficulty. They
may growl a little sometimes, and gnash their teeth at
us, but we are not afraid of this childish amusement."


374      TIlE ROMANCE OF AN IRISH 'GIRL;                                     OR, LIFE IN TWO WORLDS.      3Th

"I havi often wondered," said Marion, "that,
enjoying such privileges as they do, and having such
high notions of liberty and rights, the Americaiis are
not a more religious people; whereas, there appears
to be a great many infidels and deists among them."
"They are not without religious sentiments,"
replied Sumner; "but they have been disgusted with
bigotry and mmnmnery, with pomp and parade, the
worth of which js easily seen, and perhaps go to the
other extreme to avoid this one. From a careful
attention to God's word, and comparing the com-
mandments which he has given, regulating the duties
of his creatures toward himself as God, and toward
one another, it will be found that, for the latter, there
is ten to one of the former; thus showing what vital
Christianity is-reverence toward God, and a careful
observance of our duties toward our fellow-creatures.
For these, no parade is necessary. I have no doubt
that the Creator had a special design to establish on
this continent a better order of things than existed in
the old; and that here the problem of human rights
and duties is to be worked out."
"It is very certain," said Marion, "that the Ameri-
can's God is as different from the Englishman's as his
government. The first sermon I ever listened to in
this country, made a strange impression on me. It
was preached by the IRev. C. G. Finney. His text
was: 'The Son of man came to seek and save that
which was lost.' The speaker was capable of arous-
ing great enthusiasm in his audience; and when I
went in, he was just in the act of saying, 'Poor
sinners! Jesus Christ pitied you, because you had

such notions of his Father as would prevent a recon-
ciliation and feeling of security in Him. Therefore,
he left the plains of celestial glory, to spend a season
with you, and teach you the infinite love of the
Father. ile showed you what was required, and
that you could have comfort for all your earthly sor-
rows in Him.' The speaker went on to set forth the
character of God, as I never before heard it; and I
confess I found it did me good, for it shortened the
dreary distance between God and myself~, immea-
surably. Americans ought to be a happy people,
since they have so near and benevolent a God; and
are not compelled to accept the austere doctrines that
chill the hearts of loyal Englishmen, according to the
inscription upon the tombstone of Henry Adams,
where it is 'said he 'took his flight from the dragon of
persecution, practiced under the name of religion, and
lit at Ylallaston, with his eight sons' Poor fellow!
Mount Wallaston seemed to him Mount Zion, no
doubt. Perhaps this land is what Paul saw, when he
was caught up into the Third Heaven,.and saw such
wonders that it was not lawful for him to speak of
them."
Marion resolved to abide by her counsel's advice
in all matters pertaining to her temporal interests, at
present, as he seemed to have no doubt of the final
issue; and, in anticipation of her coining into posses-
/ sion of her rights at an early day, he had excused the
services she had been rendering in his family, when
her health permitted. It may be doubted, however,
whether this latter was as wise a step as most of his
actions were, since an occupation is absolutely neces-


3 'T6    THE ROMANCE OF AN IRISH GIRL;                                        OR~ LIFE IN TWO WORLDS.

sary to the peace of an active mind, open to such tern-
pests of sorrow as had assailed her from time to time.
Like the ocean is the human mind in its ebbs and
flows; and when, by an enthusiasm either of grief or
pleasure, it has upheaved itself in great waves of feel-
ing, it takes much time to subside into perfect peace
again; and not before it has lashed itself against the
sharp rocks iii~ its fury, does its restlessness abate.
Ever it is casting off vapor or foam, never resting,
but ever changing. Sometimes, standing on a rocky
coast and seeing the tide come in, we are reminded of
a strong mind struggling to grasp God's meaning in
the universe; or of a truth attempting to pass
through society, either abstractedly, or in the form of
a good man fearless of censure. How often, in its
majestical course, is it dashed against the rocky pre-
judices, or scorn, or unbelief of mankind! If it utter
not a word, its very countenance brings out the stony
opposition of the false, the vain, or the profligate.

CHAPTER XXX.
NEARLY a year had passed since Marion entered
Mr. Sumner's family, and March, which had "come
in like a lamb," was "going out like a lion." The con-
dition of her health was still rather precarious; indeed
she had not been without medical attendance since
her residence in New York, and she numbered among
her most disinterested friends the good Dr. Henry,
who had attended her through rain and sun, once or
twice or thrice a day, during all that time-always
cheerfully, and never making regular charges. To
his skill and kindness she owed what little strength
was left her; and many had been the occasion when
the doctor had evinced a feeling of resentment
against her oppressors equal to what he would have
felt for one of his own family. Like Dr. Wil-
kins he was somewhat excitable and given to profan-
ity or blustering, but he was a most cordial friend
and excellent man, whom Marion loved sincerely.
About the last of March, when the rough winds
had made Marion unusually sensitive, and obliged
her to keep her room almost altogether, 'she began to
notice something in the family which annoyed her
excessively. Now, of course, she knows the secret,
and appreciates the kindness that dictated it; but
then it was a terrible trial to her irritable nerves to
witness daily what she could not understand, and yet
feel that it had relation to herself. In attempting to


37t8

TIlE ROMANCE OF AN IRISH GrRL

spare her any excitement, they inadvertently occa-
sioned her a great deal of mental pain.
That Mr. and Mrs. Sumner had a secret which con-
cerned her, she had clearly divined; but the nature
of it was beyond her ability to conceive. From the
troubled and restless manner of Mr. Sumner she
feared it was some new misfortune, which lie was
striving to avert without paining her with the know-
ledge. So careful had they been to keep it from her,
that the children had been charged not to converse
with her upon the subject of her affairs. One day.
when little Nelly, who was Marion's special pet, came
into her room looking very sorrowful, upon Marion
asking the cause of her trouble she burst into tears
and answered that she "thought Miss Cunningham
was going to stay with them always." This answer
aroused Marion's curiosity, and she asked Nelly what
she meant by that; but the child only sobbed, and
said her father and mother would not allow her to
tell. Marion longed very much to probe the ulys-
tery, but would not take advantage of the child's
artlessness to question her, and directly the nurse
was sent to bring Nelly away.
This silence upon a subject that she knew must
concern herself made Marion very nervous, especially
as Mrs. Sumner tried to keep the children away from
her, lest some word should escape them to betray
their secret. Mrs. Sumner still continued as kind as
ever, but reserved and thoughtful. The only guess
Marion could make was to presume that some other
trouble had arisen with the English ministry about
the writ. She knew from experience how much

OR, LIFE IN TWO WORLDS.

379

their smoothness was to be dreaded, and that no
Roman Catholic influence was so dangerous, because
so unsuspected. When assailed by these fancies, she
tried to soothe herself with such books as would
arouse her independence, and inspire her with some-
like Yankee sang froid.
One day when she was trying Mr. Sumner's recipe
for low spirits-the Declaration of Independence-
she had her attention drawn to the fact that there
was a great deal of earnest whispering in the parlor.
It was impossible not to hear some portions of the
conversation, which was between Mrs. Sumner and
Mrs. Dr. Henry, from which she gathered that some
event was to come off soon which caused the doctor
a great deal of anxiety. Marion closed doors and
windows, the better to keep out the whispering, which
made her so nervous it was impossible to endure it.
Every fibre of her frame seemed jarring with an
indescribable discord, and she wished any catastro-
phe might happen which would deprive her of hear-
ing and feeling. But recovering herself partially,
she began to reflect upon what a different situation
would have been hers, had those persons with whom
she was so unfortunately connected been possessed of
any real candor or Christian feeling. If it was her
property they wanted-there was enough for them
all to enjoy in comfort, had they been disposed to
trust in her friendship. But, with the suspicion which
always accompanies conscious unworthiness, they had
failed to believe in her generosity, and undertaken
to crush her out of existence in order to enjoy what
they inigbt~ have had just as well without. What~


380      THE ROMANCE OF AN IRISH GIRL;
ever might have been the happiness of her estate,
there was no bringing back the bygone opportunities.
Those whose love she should have shared, had, by
their own acts, given the last stab to agonizing affec-
tion, and she was free to cut herself entirely loose
from them and their country, which was no longer
hers. Again she said she would not be overcome
with evil, but strive to overcome evil with good.
Marion was lying on her couch, fancying herself
tolerably composed, when she began to~ notice a flut-
ter of preparation downstairs, as 'if something
unusual was about to happen. Listening a moment,
she only heard the voice of Mr. Sumner in the hall,
saying-" at twenty minutes after three precisely.
I will go now and change my clothes." A feverish
anxiety to know the event that was expected took
possession of her. She had not been able to go to
the lunch-table, nor even to eat the nice morsel which
Mrs. Sumner had sent up for her, on account of this
annoying anxiety; and she began to feel offended,
though she scarcely knew that she ought to be so.
Nervously she watched the little French clock in her
room. Two, half-past two, three! and Mrs. Sumner
entered, smiling, and told her she was going to have
a little company to dinner, and had invited some of
Marion's friends. She hoped she would be able to
come down, and offered to assist her in putting on
something becoming. But a second look at Marion's
glassy eyes and flushed cheeks informed her that she
could not go downstairs in that condition.
Alarmed, she began immediately to put cold water
on her head, and chafe her hands and feet. She

OR, LIFE IN TWO wORLDs.       3S1

wanted to send for Dr. Henry, but dreaded to do so,
for fear his prescriptions would interfere with her
plans. While she was laboring to quiet her patient,
feeling inwardly conscious that she was to blame for
her being in such a state of excitement, the clock
struck four. At the same moment there was
time noise of carriages arriving, and directly Mr.
Sumner'~ step on the stairs.
"Let that lady alone until I have seen her," called
out Dr. Henry after him, and in a moment more tIme
good doctor came bounding up the stairs with the
lightness of boyhood. "How is this !" cried he,
sternly, when he saw Marion's condition. "A pretty
plight to meet your friends in. Why, I shall have to
bring Brown up here to see you." Then turning to
Mrs. Sumner: "Let us have some water, a glass
and spoons as quickly as possible. I shall have to
dose this young lady."
Mrs. Sumner gave the order immediately, and
stood looking on with a half-disposition to cry over
the consequences of her mystery. But, when the
medicine had been administered, Marion rallied at
once. Whether it was the revulsion in her feelings
or the medicine she could not tell. Then Mrs. Sum-
ner proceeded to brusli Marion's hair and tidy her up
a little in appearance. After this was accomplished,
another powder was given, by which time her patient
was stimulated up to the point of endurance thought
necessary; and they descended together to the parlor
to meet the company.
When they appeared at the door, Dr. Henry
stepped forward and taking Marion on his arm, led


382      THE ROMANCE OF AN IRISH GIRL;                                      OR, LIFE IN TWO WORLDS.      883

her to where Sheldon Brown and B. F. Allen stood
conversing together. Her joyful surprise at meeting
with Alleii can better be imagined than described.
But, there was no chance for demonstrations nor for
asking questions. She was obliged to greet Brown
and her other friends who were there assembled.
Before she was hardly conscious of being in the united
presence of all her best friends, the doctor led her
through a half-opened door into the back parlor.
Gracious Heaven! what spectre was that! But
there could be no other like this one, and springing
forward into Johm lFoods' out-stretched arms, she
fainted quite away. Nobody was alarmed, however.
It is seldom any one dies of joy. The good doctor
assisted the lover to restore her to consciousness,
after which he departed, closing the door after him.
Had it not been so sorrowful, it would have been a
scene to smile at-the greeting of these long-sepa-
rated lovers. Both were ill, both pale and emaciated
with suffering; but the energy of their gladness was
not anything abated by that fact. They would pro-
bably have forgotten what was due to the untiring
friends by whose exertions they were permitted to
enjoy this meeting, but Mr. Sumner caine to an-
nounce dinner quite too sooi~i to find their appetites
prepared, and they were compelled to join the coin-
pany.
~Marion was too happy, even to try to seem grate-
ful. She said nothing to Allen or the others about
what she owed to them, and only sat silent~ looking
from one to another in supreme contentment; while
John Woods, in a half-unconscious manner, imi-

tated her example. The company finding that they
had two silent members, were all the more talkative
and mirthful; and the wine which Mr. Sumner
had furnished for the occasion, was drank with many
a tender or patriotic sentiment.
After dinner was over, Marion learned all about
this late appearance of mystery. Of course it took
some time and thought to prepare all those pretty
and appropriate bridal gifts, to have them in readi-
ness for the occasion, every one accompanied by an
appropriate motto. Mr. Sumner presented her a
beautiful silver urn on which was engraved an eagle
soaring ever St. Helena, bearing in his talons a
shield, anchor and trumpet, and in his beak a ribbon
with the motto, "Free Trade, and a right to love
and marry whom you please."
Mrs. Sumner, a handsome statuette, representing
the Genius of America trampling under her feet a lion,
and around the pedestal the motto: "I subdue you."
Nelly Summer presented a picture of a "sweet
little cherub thatsits up aloft "-holding a ribbon on
which was inscribed: "John Woods is saved for his
Marion."
Mrs. Dr. Henry, an elegantly bound copy of Watts'
Hymns, and o~n a fly leaf this beautiful address:
"Children of sorrow awak~i from your sadness,
Awake, for the night of your sorrows is o'er;
Bright o'er the hills dawns the day-star of gladness-
Arise, for your fear can oppress you no more.
"And if with the hope our country to plunder.
The tyrant to invade her should ever pretend;
His legions shall shrink when our armed freemen thunder-
Thcy fight for their true-loves, wives, children and f~ends."

4

4


384      THE ROMANCE OF AN n~isi~ GIRL;                                     OR, LIFE IN TWO WORLDS.       385

'1'he doctor slily presented an elegant silver port-
monnaie, on which was already graven her future
name, Marion1 C~nninqkctm~ Wood8; and Sheldon
Brown added a beautiful card-case similarly en-
graven. Thomas ~Mic Lain's gift was a silver tea-set,
with the same initials upon each piece.
When Marion looked upon all these testimonials
of kindness, her heart overran with gratitude, and
she acknowledged that she had done nothing and
been nothing to deserve it; though she resolved sLe
would in future merit it all.
The congratulations were hardly over in the house
before the door was besieged by a party of, Irish and
Scotch who had got an inkling of the affair, and were
determined not to be behind in expressing their
appreciation of the generosity of the American
gentlemen as exhibited in behalf of Marion and her
lover, in contending for their rights and personal
safety. Mr. Sumner brought out the wine, and,
after drinking" extinction of oppression wherever
practiced by principal or agent ;" and
"ratient in toil, serene amidst alarms,
Inflexible in faith, invincible in arms,"
they shook hands with the American gentlemen and
departed. Further demonstrations would have been
made; and the English Consul burned in effigy, for
serving the writ upon Miss Cunningham; but Sumner
objected strongly to any such public manifestation of
feeling as being inappropriate to the occasion; and
the national sentiment was appeased. Much interest
was manifested, and much curiosity felt to know the

particulars of John Woods' history since his incarce-
ration in a Dublin prison; but, the subject was so
painful to all those most concerned, that it was voted
down, and all that was known about it was that,
after being several times removed from place to
place in Ireland, and suffering all the horrors of con-
finement in dark and loathsome dens, he was finally
removed, about one year previous, to St. ilelena,
where, without enjoying his liberty, he was more
humanely treated, and allowed partially to recover
his health which had been almost ruined by his long
imprisonment.
Allen and Marion talked over affairs in Ireland,
and to her lie made known all those plans and little
intrigues by which he had succeeded in checking the
intrigues of others. Whatever they were, sin~e the
purpose of them is accomplished, it would be tedious
to relate them.
Marion was much affected by the report of her
mother's situation and feelings, and resolved that not
many months should pass over her head without
bringing her to see that lonely and sad parent, who,
whatever her errors might have been, was not with-
out a strong claim on her sympathy and attention.
John Woods made many friends in New York, and
Marion had no reason to blush for her choice; or
that she had undergone so much for his sake. It is
needless to say that she was no longer the despond-
ing invalid of the year before; and her friends often
had occasion to rally both the lovers on their
improved appearance.
It was rather a disappointment to outsiders not to


386      THE ROMANCE OF AN IRISH GIRL;
hear that a wedding was to come off immediately.
It was reasonable to conclude that those who had
suffered so much for each other, and been separated
by so many dangers, would guard against future
separations by uniting at once in indissoluble bonds,
and so, oftentimes, their hearts prompted them.
But wise heads and kind hearts had counselled other-
wise, and that final union was postponed to another
occasion, a little in the future.

OR, LIFE IN TWO wORLDS.       387

CHAPTER XXXI.
AFrER lingering a few days in New York, Allen
took his leave of those persons who owed him an
everlasting debt of gratitude, and hastened to see his
mother and Annie Stewart. As the ingenious Yan-
kee has all along played so importhut a part in the
history of Marion Cunningham, it is only just to the
interest of the reader to relate what re&amp;rs to the
romance in which his Irish adventures had entangled
him. It has been hinted, elsewhere, that Allen's
devotion to Annie Stewart was something more than
the tender sympathy' of the strong and brave for the
weak and tender; and as a natural consequence of
this deeper feeling, his meeting with Annie was
looked forward to with agitating doubts and delicious
hopes, alternately. But the agitation of his mind
was calmed on reaching home and finding only his
mother there, with whom he had a long confidential
talk, before his ward returned from some pleasure
excursion in which she had taken a part. A little
feeling of jealousy disturbed Allen's mind when he
first fancied her enjoying herself in the society of
another; but he banished it iimnediately as unjust to
her youth and temperament. Why should she not
see something of the' world before he asked her for
an answer to the most important question she ever
could be called upon to decide?
While these thoughts were running through his


388      TILE ROMANCE OF AN IRISH GIRL;                                       OR~ LIFE IN TWO WORLDS.        389

mind, his mother was telling him, though lie scarcely
listened, that this party of pleasure was the only one
Annie had attended sinec her arrival-that for a long
time she had been afraid to trust her away from home
on account of the Catholic excitement, and, more
recently, Annie had not desired to go out, but had
applied herself closely to her hooks and her home
duties. The attachment between the old lady and her
young adopted daughter was very cordial-indeed, as
much so as Allen could possibly have desired; and
it delighted him to hear all the praises she had to
bestow upon her.
In the midst of their happy talk, Annie made her
appearance, attended by a young Englishman-a
neighbor of his mother, whose family claimed to be*
connected with people of high blood. Allen, wisW
ing, with his native disposition for knowing secrets,
to learn something of Annie's feelings from watch.
ing her awhile unseen, slipped out of the room
as she entered it with George Brondey, and
concealed himself where he could observe her
movements. She was lovely indeed, with her
girlish form in a spotless robe of white; her long
brown curls fallingaround a face of sweetest expres-
sion and contrasting with the fairness of her regal
neck and shoulders! He almost began to be jealous
again as the young fop at her side betrayed his admi-
ration in every glance. But the smiling unconscious-
ness of Annie enabled him to retain his compos-
ure. Tie heard her assure his mother that she had
spent the day very pleasantly, but was glad to get
home to her again; there was no place plea-

banter than her own home. George Brondey's face
grew a little clouded at this expression of preference,
while Allen's heart bounded with gladness.
Annie, with instinctive delicacy, perceived that her
escort was disappointed by her remarks, and has-
tened to smooth over the wound with a merry account
of her numerous pleasant adventures that day. It
seemed two hours to Allen in his retreat, though it
was not thirty minutes that the young man lingered
before taking his leave, and then he saw Annie turn
to his mother and exclaim, as she put her hand on
either side the old lady's face and kissed her withered
mouth affectionately:
"Why, mother, I never saw you looking so
young and happy; what has occurred in my ab-
sence
"Oh, nothing so unexpected; good news from
England-that is all," answered the old lady, with a
touch of her son's mysteriousness.
"Was there no letter for me ?" she inquired,
hastily.
"No, my dear, there was none for you."
A shadow fell over Annie's bright face, and, walk-
big away from the light, she stood silently looking
out of the window. Mrs. Allen smiled, and gazed at
the coals in the grate, for it was a cool evening in
April.
Presently, Annie turned her head in the direction
of her adopted mother, and ho, there stood a never-
to-be-forgotten form, which a moment before she had
thought of as being on the other side of the Atlantic.
The delicate color forsook her check, and, when


39 ~THlE ROMANCE OF AN IRIsH GIRL; O*                                       IEINTOWRLS

Allen reached her side, he received her fainting form
in his arms.
" Who would have thought the child was so sensi-
tive," cried the mother, as she hastened to assist in
restoring consciousness.
Allen made no reply. Quietly, without summon-
ing a servant, or making any other unpleasant
exposure of her feelings, Mrs. Allen attended to her
health, and when she was sufficiently recovered,
accompanied her to her room, remarking that she had
been too much fatigued by her day of pleasure. So
the timid girl had the benefit of believing that her
mother and guardian attributed her sudden illness to
fatigue.
It would be difficult to analyze the emotions which
filled the young mind of Annie Stewart, even did we
care for the analysis. Most of the world understands
these things without explanation. Heart interprets
heart with very few blunders, where only the natural
sentiments are concerned.
When the lovers--for though unacknowledged ,th ey
still were lovcrs-met at the breakfast-table, it would
be difficult to tell which one suffered most from
embarrassment. There are occasional times in the
life of the bravest man, when he is as weak and ner-
vous as a woman ; and it is generally the example of
some woman that makes him so. If Allen did not do
justice to the excellent breakfast-cakes, or if Annie's
coffee cup trembled in her hand, nobody was the
wiser, except the mother, and she very discreetly
talked of matters the most foreign to their feelings,
until something like composure was restored.

390

Annie had many questions to ask about Marion,
and all the circumstances of his travels, as soon as
her usual self-possession came back to her, which it
took the forenoon to answer.
In the afternoon, Mrs. Allen was favored with a
call from the mother of George Brondey, the purpose
of which visit surprised her not a. little. This lady
was the wife of an Englishman of a comfortable for-
ture, who had lived in the Aeighborhood of' the
Allens for several years, without an acquaintance
ever having ripened between them. Indeed, Mrs.
Allen had never suspected before that they prided
themselves on being English, and that they looked
condescending'ly upon their American neighbors.
Such, however, was the fact, as transpired in the
course of that day's conversation. Mrs. Brondey
had known for some time that a young English girl
of good family had been staying with Mrs, Allen-so
she said-and, under rather peculiar circumstances ;
but, until lately, she had not taken much notice
of the rumors concerning her. Of late, however, her
son, George, had conceived a great partiality for the
young lady, and, knowing she was of good blood
and birth, they desired to adopt her into their family.
Mrs. Brondey did not conceal the fact that they
had hopes of being able to secure her fortune to her,
and that a marriage was contemplated between her
son and the young heiress. She had no doubt Mrs.
Allen was very much attached to the child by this
time, as it was said she was amiable and pretty ; but,
she thought, considering the child's birth and English
blood, it would be more proper to have her brought

891


392      THE ROMANCE OF AN IRISH GIRL;
up under English customs. She might some day
desire to return to her relatives, for the enjoyment of
the privileges of rank; and, as her-Mrs. Brondey's-.
family was a very good one, she felt that she would
be a very suitable person to take charge of her.
When this very modest proposition was concluded,
Mrs. Allen, who had been gazing at her visitor in
blank astonishment, arose and called her son, who,
with Annie, sat in an inner room.
"Ah, I was not aware Mr. Allen bad returned,"
said Mrs. Brondey rather stiffly, as he made his ap-
peara~ice.
Without attending to her remark, Mrs. Allen pro-
ceeded to repeat what her visitor had said. During
the rehearsal Allen's countenance grew ashen pale.
At its conclusion, lie arose, and, opening the door,
repeated very distinctly a familiar English phrase-
"Mrs. Brondey's carriage 'stops the way."' For. a
moment the discomfited lady was motionless with
surprise, but there was no mistaking the determined
air with which he held the door in waiting, and bit-
ing her lips with anger, she sailed majestically out
with Allen at her side to escort her to her carriage.
She could not refrain from returning the bow of frigid
politene~ with which he bade her good day, though
it must always be doubted whether she was not in a
rage with herself about it afterwards.
"Why, Ben, how could you be so rude ?" exclaimed
Mrs. Allen, as he re~intered the parlor.
"I was not rude, mother; that is, it was no rude-
ness to her, after such an insult as she gave you.
Jupiter! what intolerable airs these Johnny Bulls

OR, LIFE IN Two woRLDs.      393
and Bullesses take on! Much interest, indeed, they
would take in Annie if there was no fortune in the
case! There is great need to learn her English man-
ners to fit her to meet her relatives at some future
day. Great will be her joy at the meeting, no doubt.
But we will hear what she has, to say about it ;" and,
stepping to a door, he summoned Annie into his
mother's presence. "Tell her about it, mother," said
he with a strangely bitter smile.
"Nonsense, Ben! Annie will not wish to hear it."
"Oh, yes she will. There is no telling how the
English blood will come out in her yet. She may
think it a very fine thing to marry this George Bron-
dey, and go back to England to claim her rights
there." Annie sat pale and wondering; for she had
never seen her guardian in such a bitter mood before:
while talking of marrying George Brondey and going
back to England gave her a terrible palpitation of the
heart. Mrs. Allen refused to say anything about it,
so Allen continued, striding up and down the apart-
ment: "We have received a proposition for you to-
day, Annie, which is of vei'y serious interest to you.
Mrs. Brondey thinks it due to your blood, birth and
prospects, that you should receive English training,
therefore she proposes to adqpt you in order that you
may get it. She further proposes to marry you to
her son George, and undertakes the recovery of your
property. Now it remains for you to say whether
you would be pleased with this arrangement. Recol-
lect, if you marry George Brondcy you may yet be a
lady, and drive your carriage in the park."
Poor Annie! Taken so by surprise that she knew
1 ~


39A4

THE ROMANCE OF AN IRISH GIRL;

not what to say, and bewildered by her guardian's
manner into a doubt of whether she was any longer
welcome, she made no answer whatever, but stared
blankly at the wall.
"You are cruel, Ben," said Mrs. Allen, reproach-
fully. "Of course Annie does tiot wish to return to
England, and you frighten the child by your harsh-
ness."
"Mother, how do you know Annie does not wish
to return, if she can have her proper place in society
there? I tell you the English blood will show itself;
and I will trust no answer but her own, and that a
very deliberate one. Annie, I will' take your answer
to-morrow morning~" Abruptly quitting the apart-
ment, the faiaily saw him no more that day.
Annie went to her room in silence, while Mrs.
Allen, failing to find relief for her agitation in snuff-
ing, which she was old-fashioned enough to do, took
to brushing her carpet violently to work off her un-
usual dissatisfaction. She longed to follow Annie
and administer consolation for her son's extraordinary
impatience; but she was restrained by the reflection
that, after all, it might be true that Annie would
prefer to enjoy the privileges of foreign rank if she
found she could do so, and that it was best not to in-
terfere with her decision. Yet, when Annie came
down to tea with~ swollen eyes and tear-stained
cheeks, and took her single cup in silence, as was
~ever her custom, the kind heart of the old lady
reproached her.
"Ben did not mean to grieve you, my dear," said
she tenderly, seeing the child refuse to eat. "He

I

OR~ LIFE IN TWO WORLDS.

395

was very much annoyed at Mrs. Brondey's coming
here on such an errand as she did: and he thought
too, perhaps, that it might be your wish to be restored
to your proper rank at home if that could be with
safety."
"Then he is not tired of me, and does not wish me
to marry George Brondey ?" asked Annie, brighten-
ing up a little.
"Tired of you, child! why, I suspect it would be a
hard blow to him to lose you; and it was thinking
of what might happen in that way that put him so
out of humor. Of course 'he would be de1ighte~ to
have you say you preferred to remain here."
Annie made no reply. She only kissed her mother's
cheeks, and went up to her room again. The second
breakfast was a repetition of the first for awkward-
ness. After it was over, Allen took his ward by the
arm and led her into the back parlor.
"Have you decided to go to Mrs. Brondey's ?" he
asked, seating her beside him on a sofa.
"Yes, sir, if you wish it," she replied, with com-
posure.
Allen started up as if stung, and commenced
pacing the floor. "Why do you say 'yes sir, if you
wish it?'"
"Because I am bound to do whatever you wish,"
answered Annie steadily.
"No, Annie, you are not bound to do whatever I
wish, by any means. It is more proper that I should
do whatever you wish, since you are a lady in your
own right; and Allen seated himself on the idle
ottoman at her feet.


396      THE ROMANCE OF AN IRISH GIRL;                                        OR, LIFE IN TWO WORLDS.       397

"Are ladies privileged to be ungrateful ?" asked
Annie.
"I know nothing about gratitude, Annie; and
you shall know nothing about it to-day, or ever, with
me. I utterly ignore any such feeling. Agaill I ask
will you go to Mrs. Brondey's ?"
"And again I answer, yes, sir, if you ,wish it ;"
repeated Annie in a low, decided tone. Ah, Annie
Stewart! was there not a spice of womanly coquetry
and malice in that answer? were you not bent on
making him say how little he wished it, and how
much he wished you to stay? Yes, truly, for co-
quetry is woman's only defence, if she be not rich and
independent.
Allen was vexed. He wanted her to tell him she
would not go for worlds-that she would not live out
of his presence, and all that; but, when he glanced
at her calm face, grown so wonderfully womanly in
the last two days, he felt that it was useless to expect
it.
"Answer me then, once for all, do you desire to
go ?" he asked watching her face intently.
"No, sir," answered she, without looking up.
"Annie I" lie was holding her hand and watching
for the expression of her eyes. She did not look at
him, but a beautiful color spread rapidly over her
face. "I am glad to hear you say that: I was afraid
I should lose you after all, when I had once thought,
however foolishly, that you would never leave me,
that you would be mine forever. Do you understand
what my wish is, Annie ?"
She trusted one glance from her moist blue eyes,

and only one. Tier slight frame trembled violently.
Allen had no doubt she understood him, and pitying
her timidity, he said gaily: "Well, now Annie, my
own Annie in future, if ever you get to be a great
lady, don't forget this brief episode in Yankee life!
And now, let us go and see our mother, for I have
business of importance to arrange with both of
you.~~
They found Mrs. Allen giving orders about the
garden. "I am sorry mother," said Allen, "that I
cannot .be at home to take this care off your mind;
but, the truth is, I have promised those people in
New York to be back there in two weeks to go with
them to London, and see the end of their romance;
and I want to take Annie along. I have talked
with her about Mrs. Brondey, and she don't want to
go there: and as we are to have quite a gay party on
John Woods' wedding excursion, I have made up my
mind to take my wife along."
"Oh, Ben !" cried his mother in amazement, while
Annie, blushing and half crying, dared not remon-
strate; "how precipitate you are. The child is not
ready to be married; and I do not see, besides, how
you can wish to go again to England immediately.
But come in the house," you have quite taken all my
strength away by your hasty announcement."
So to the house they went, and the result of their
consultation was an arrangement for a wedding to
come off at the end of a week. "It is only for a
month, or at longest six weeks," he argued; an dthen
you will have us settled down here for good and all.
you threaten to deed the farm to Annie. Very well,


398      TIlE ROMANCE OF AN IRISH GIRL;

do so; when Annie's fortune comes, she will give
that to me, and that will make us even again I"
"But, I thought i5liss Cunningham did not dare
venture into Great Britian," remarked Annie.
"She does not intend to land," answered Allen.
"Her counsel have been fixing up matters in some
way, so that she can meet her mother and other
friends, and secure her property besides. Her coun-
sel go along and will remain to attend to the busi-
ness. Most of the property being hers by will, they
are going to get it given to Woods in some way, I
hardly understand how. If her grandfather is living,
I suppose he can arrange it with her attorney."
"And she is going to be married to Woods right
under the queen's eyes ?" said his mother. " I think
it is hardly right to taunt the government in that
way.
"Oh, yes, it is just right, exactly. It may serve as
a little single lesson to an insolent power, which
mercilessly pursues its own aggrandizement at no
matter what sacrifice to individuals."
"But I am afraid something will happen to Annie,"
pursued Mrs. Allen, who did not like the project at all.
Allen bade her have no fears on her account: that
no power on earth could get her away from him
when once she belonged to him. The preparations for
the voyage were made as hastily as possible, and, at
the end of a week the marriage took place. It was a
very light breakfast they took on the morning of the
wedding, so natural is it to regard this important
event with emotion. Too much importance cannot
attach to it, in truth, though, alas! it is too often

lightly regarded. It was not strange that the eyes
of the young bride lingered on the form of her
mother as long as the house could be seen from the
carriage. She knew that her eyes once turned to
her husband she was~ her own no more forever!
That was a pleasant journey however; and when
Allen arrived in New York with his bride, he was
received with great attention. Old Lord Fowler
gave a splendid entertainment, which was followed
* by two or three other less brilliant, but equally plea-
sant ones; and Marion received her young friend
with joy.

OR, LIFE IN TWO WORLDS.       399


400      THE ROMANCE OF AN IRISH GIRL;                                     OR~ LIFE IN TWO WORLDS.      401

CHAPTER XXXII.
AT the end of a week, the party took a steamer
for London. It consisted of the Sumners, Dr. Henry
and lady, Thomas McLain and lady, the other counsel
emplQyed in Marion's suit, several friends of her
friends, Allen and his bride, and the chief couple in
whose 'honor and by whose will and means the ex-
cursion was to be made. It was a merry and happy
occasion for all who could be merry. It is not al-
ways the merriest who are happiest, however. Four-
teen days of pleasant sailing weather brought them
to anchor in the Thames.
It was an amusement to Marion to listen to the
comments of her American friends as they passed
amongst the shipping. Nearly all the British vessels
were named after serpents or monsters of some sort,
and Marion pronounced it appropriate that they
should be so named. Other peculiarities attracted
their attention. The sailors and men on the wharves
were not such cheerful, well-conditioned men as they
saw in the same occupations at home. The band
played "Yankee Doodle," while, at that same mo-
ment, a sailor was seen swimming off from a British
man of war lying near. He was shot at by an officer
and brought back, for the usual punishment, of
being "whipped around the fleet" for desertion.
But, all that interested Marion and her lover was the
appointed meeting. They had not been long in port,

when a messenger came on board saying that Lady
Fredonia would soon be with them, together with
Mrs. Woods, Dr. Wilkins and other invited guests.
As the steamer was chartered for the purpose~ the
company made themselves entirely at home, and
grand preparations were made for the coming occa-
sion.
By and by, from his lookout, Thomas McLairi
espied the carriage which he doubted not conveyed
the visitors to the steamer, and, descending, he in-
formed. Marion of her mother's arrival. The gentle-
men went to assist her ladyship and Mrs. Woods on
board, while Marion tried to compose herself for the
meeting; but, the more she tried, the more nervous
she grew, and when, at last, Lady Fredonia was con-
ducted into the cabin and seated in an easy-chair,
she was without the courage to look upon her own
mother. Dr. Henry led her beside her mother's
chair, and she there sank down on her knees, and
buried her face in the folds of Lady Fredonia's
dress. The pale, sad-looking mother bent her head
over her, and both wept tears that washed away the
sorrows of years.
The meeting between John Woods and his mother
was equally affecting, though between them there
had never been any reproaches. Theirs was a joy
unmingled with regret, except for their long and
painful separation.
Just as the re-united parents and children began to
be a little more composed, a new character appeared
on the stage, in the person of a servant beam-ing a
bird-cage, in which was a green parrot. He set the

- I


42   THE ROMANCE OF AN IEISH GIRL;i

cage down before Marion and left the bird to make
her acquaintance. After turning its head rapidly a
number of times, and looking first with one eye then
the other, at Marion, it began to flutter about in great
excitement, saying " Marion, where have you been
where have you been ?" and ending with a laugh loud
and long. This little scene, so ludicrous atnd yet
affecting, served to divert attenitioni from the principal
actors, and. something like calmness succeeded to the
storm of emotions. It was difficult, however, to re-
cover all at once; and, in order to put unpleasant
thoughts out of mind, as soon as the mutual intro-
ductions were over, wine was brought out, and con-
gratulations drank. A sumptuous dinner soon fol-
lowed, at which there were drinking and toasting and
song-singing in real merry-making style. No chance
was given any one to grow thoughtful or weary.
Marion's old friends, Lord Potter and Gen. Arsdell,
were present, as well as the Scotch captain who had
been so hospitable to her in Glasgow. Between the
dinner and the dessert the marriage ceremony was.
performed, and Marion Wallace Cunningham became
Mrs. John Woods. A salute was then fired, and
the American tars sang the following song to the
tune of Yankee Doodle:
Ye gallant sons of liberty,
Who bravely have defended
Your country's flag by land and sea, -
And to her cause attended,
Sing Yankee doodle, doodle-doo,
Yankee doodle dandy ;
Our tars will show the haughty foe
Columbia's sons are handy.

403

Upon the ocean's wide domain
Our tars are firm and true, sirs;-
And Fredom's cause they will maintain,
With Yankee doodle-doo, sirs:
With Yankee doodle, doodle-doo, etc.
The fourth day of July, tis said-
A day that Britons rue, sirs-
An independent tune we played
Called Yankee-doodle-doo, sirs.
Yankee doodle, doodle-doo, etc.
Columbia's sons did then declare
-They would be independent';        .
And for King George they wouldn't care--
Nor yet for his descendants.
Yankee doodle, doodle-doo, etc.
The bold Prince Regent thought he'd sent
A fleet to take our few, sirs;
But soon to sea our sailors went
With Yankee doodie-doo, sirs:
Sing aYankee doodle, doodle-doo,
Our tars did show the haughty foe
Columbia's sons were handy,
The sailors gave nine cheers at the close of this
song. Dessert was brought when Dr'. Wilkins sung,
in honor of the Americans:
0, freemen raise a joyous strain l
Aloft your eagle soars:
You've met the enemy again-
Again have made him yours.
Your striped flag upon the wave
Triumphantly appears:
And to invested landsmen brave
The star of promise bears.

OR, LIFE IN TWO WORLDS.

402


404:     THE ROMANCE OF AN IRISH GIRL;                                           OR~ LIFE IN TWO WORLDS.        405

Britannia, round your haggard brows,
Bind bitter wormwood still!
For low again your standard bows
To valiant Yankee skill.
What chaplet proud enough is found
Your Yankee brows to grace?
'Tis done! the glorious wreath is bound
~T hi cli Time cannot efface.
Your deeds, with deeds of all brave men,
Your gallant acts shall blend;
'Till the bright promise of your lives
Its radiance here extends.

At the close of this song, Woods was solicited to
relate his secret history, since his confinement in
Dublin prison; but lie declined entering into par-
ticulars, further than to satisfy the curiosity of the
company concerning the means taken to convey him
away so as to leave no traces.
When he left the Dublin prison, lie had previously
been drugged, and then placed in a perforated box
resembling a coffin, which being placed in another,
served to convey m4safely to such places as his
enemies found convenient, until they could send hiln
to St. Helena; which they finally did. ~XVhmen lie
came to his consciousness on board ship, he was put
in irons until he reached the island, when he was
given in charge of a guard, with very strict orders
as to his privileges. He was not allowed to converse
witk any but such persons as first received per-
niission to address him from his keepers. His situa-
tion was very painful, but he did not wish to speak
of it-looking at Lady Fredonia-at present, or ever

again, if it could be avoided. If Mr. Allen chose to
relate the manner of his rescue he could do so.
Lund calls for Allen followed, when that gentleman
arose, and stated that, as full particulars of his pro-
ceedings would involve several brave Irishmen in
trouble with the British Government if known, he
preferred to observe the silence of Mr. Woods on
that subject. It was enough that, after finding out
his place of imprisonment, he had been aided by his
own countrymen, who contrived to get a suit of sailor's
clothing to him, and afford him an opportunity of
escape with a company of American sailors who were
visiting the island. So well was he disguised that he
passed the officials who saw him every day, without
detection. His absence being discovered, however,
it was guessed where lie could be found; but as Yan-
kee oak was known to be as stout as British, he was
suffered to go unpursued.
Cheers for the Yankee oak: and the following
sentiments given:
The Realm of Tyrants-May it always be bounded on every side
by the sea, and never exceed thirty leagues iii circumference.
The People of the United States-As they are personally aware
that Johnny Bull is not invincible, may they learn also that his adhe.
rents are not infallible.
To the Rescuers of John Woods-Wisdom and justice to their coun-
cils, and, when required, skill and vigor to their arms.
Uncle Sam's best Respects to the generous and good the world
over.
A Scotch Sea captain's Sentiments to the Enemies of the Uuited
States-A leaky ship, a lee shore, an ebb tide, and no anchorage for
them.
To the Ladies-They animate us to patriotism and glory, and in.
spire us with all that dignifies man's nature. Let us cherish them.


4068

THE ROMANCE OF AN IRISH GIRL;

Lord Potter proposed:
A tear and a toast to the memory of American heroes ; and may
such names as Washington, Warren, Montgomery and Allen never be
forgotten.
General Aradell offered:
A Republican Government-The glory of free men, the shame of
slaves, opposed to monarchy, aristocracy, and despotism.
John Woods offered:
To our Priends-Their praises are, Jike our affection and gratitude,
unspeakably precious.
Dr. Henry offered '
The Sympathy which the Occasion inspires-May our hearts remain
full of it when our glasses are empty.
A number of other sentiments were offered by the
different guests; and to close the entertainment, Mr.
Sumner was called upon to sing the "Star-Spangled
Banner," which he did with great expression, the
whole company joining in the chorus-.
Everybody regretted the absence of Sheldon
Brown, whose marriage with a beautiful Boston lady
was to take place on the first of June, consequently
he could not make one of the party.'
The evening closed happily, and if some of the more
veteran drinkers, according to English usages, were
not so brilliant at the close as at the beginning of the
entertainment, to the credit of the Americans be it
said, none of them were any too much stimulated for
good manners or good sense.
The group of ladies had retired before the last
song was sung, and the swelling strains of the " Star-

I

OR, LIFE IN TWO WORLDS.

407

Spangled Banner " mingled with the music of their
dreams. IDr. Wilkins declared next morning, that he
had not known, when listening to that song, whether
he was in the body or not.
As it was not the intention of the party to remain
long in port, business was taken into consideration
immediately. According to Marion's request, her
father's remains had been removed to London, and
were now brought on board ship. A little heap of
bones and dust was all there was left of a once great
man and father ; but Marion wanted that little in-
terred in the free soil of her adopted home. The
gentlemen who had come as counsel, except Mr.
Sumner, were to remain to transact tihe necessary
business concerning tile estate. Tile effect of the
writ would be baffled by the united concurrence of all
the individuals interested in the matter, and the
gentlemen left, prepared for all the intricacies of their
business. Lady Fredonia remained with her daughter,
while Mrs. Woods was escorted to her home in Ire-
land by General Arsdell and Dr. Wilkins. Lord
Potter was instructed how to proceed with the case
of Annie Stewart Allen; and, in fine, all arrange-
ments were made to secure the future peaceful resi-
dence of the parties in the United States. The Cun-
ningham estate was to be leased for just as much
rent as would keep possession, until a certificate of
citizenship should enable Woods to return and look
after its condition in person, when it would either be
sold or put in a better condition for its tenants.
Tile third day our party were in port, another
steamer, from Halifax, came in, with tile intelligence


f
408      THE I~OMANCE OF AN IRISh GIRL~
of the death of Lord Charles Elia. The term for his
trial came on about the period of John Woods' ad-
vent in New York, and as no one appeared against
him, he was discharged. Taking passage in a Ilud-
son River steamer, he was annoyed at being recog-
nized by some persons on board, and wishing to
escape their observation, got off at a landing along
the river, where he was almost immediately bitten
by a rabid dog. The nature of the bite was not
known until after he had embarked for England,
when the disease rapidly developed itself, and the
unfortunate man died in horrible agony, and was
buried in the sea. Surely-
"God moves in a mysterious way,
His wonders to perform."
We have now to bid adieu to our readers~ The
subject of this antobiography\qwes much to the kind-
ness of the American people. In the j judgment day
it cannot be said to them by the poor and oppressed
of foreign nations, "I was an hungered, and ye gave
me no meat; thirst, and ye gave me no drink;
naked, and ye clothed rho not; sick 'and in prison,
and ye visited me not." All this have they done,
and more, unto many, who, like the author of this
book, can bear testimony to their generous hearts
and truly Christian principles, practiced as well as
professed.
TIlE
''I
I


  
             
         
       
   
