
    ----CITATION----
        Reynolds, W. D.. Miss Martha Brownlow, or, The Heroine of Tennessee .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC7565
    ----FULL TEXT----
         
      
         
            Miss Martha Brownlow, or, The heroine of Tennessee 
            
                 
                BEIWIN OF TE NN         U MANY PERILS AND PRIVATIONS- ENDURED BY' MISS .MARTHA BROWNLOW, THE LOVELY AND ACCOMPLISHED 'DAUGHTER OP THE OCT4EBBRATED PARSON BROWNLOWt, I DtRiG HER RESIDENCE WITH HAB FATHER IN KNOXVILLE, t -  PUBLISHED BY. BARCLAY & CO.,  AGENTS. UNION BOO PTBLIShIN COMPiA NY, 66 NORTH ,SITH ST. ITT AT)ELPH A.      t   JUSTICE TO OUR GALLANT SOLDIERS AND SAILORS. , Though the present war lias brought into existence a vast number of. Histories Aid Personal Narratives, yet no work has, until now, appeared, devoted entirey to the cause of the Noble Men who have fought and died, and who are still fighting Eand dying ih the Holy Cause of their Country.  It is, therefore, to supplythis want that we have commenced the publication of THE VOLUNTEERS' ROLL OF HONOR. i The ROLL OF HONOR is issued in Monthly Numbers. Each number is complete in itself, and is  ' ^agnifllentfiS   tlj*Istrated by the most Celebrated Artists. Every Engraving represents some scene taken directly from the text of the book itself. The Roll of Honor is. n fact, 'a Caskot, in which will be preserved, the correct name l f every Soldier or Sailor who has performed an act of daring or gallantry in his Cooun* 's behalf,. The proper number of his Regiment, and letter of his Company, or naime-of his F ssel will, also, be strictly recorded, together with a; fill narrative of the l; deed he performed. Such a work, it must be apparent, possesses MORE BOMANCE THAN A NOVEL-MORE THRILLINGNESS THAN ANY OTHER VOLUME OF ADVENTURES, AND ALL THE TRUTH OF HSTORY, and is, thereforefo re  desira  to thor e desirable eading than any other work. Relatives and friends of Volunteers, and Volunteers themselves, by sending us a-torrect account of any praiseworthy or gallant deed, together with the Name, Regiment, Ship, &o., of the performerformer, shall have the same recorded in THE ROLL OF HONOR. In addition to our other inducements, we have determined to make the To     Following    S lendia Offer: To that person in the Army, or out of it, sending us by JANUARY 1ST, 1864, the largest number of Subscribers to the ROLL OP HONOR, we will present .. . .  .  .  .  . $200 00 Second largest number . .  .  .  .  .  .    . 150 00 Third   "      .  ..  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 125 00 Fourth        .  .  .  .  .          80 00 Fifth,  "   "   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  ..   60 00 Sixth  "       .  .  .  .   .  .  .  . 50 00 Seventh "     . .- . . . . . .             40 00 On the same dary, we will also award to the Volunteer, who shall be decided by a Committee of our most distinguished Generals, to have performed the bravest, deed in the pause of his Country, $200 00. In case the Volunteer be dead, the money will be paid to his proper heir or heirs If living, to himself, or whoever he may name. Soldiers, Sailors, and Civilians, Mothers, Daughters, and Sons, are like alike interested in giving THE VROL     L OF HONOR a universal circulation, and thus intro- duing to every household in our land this  GREAT ENCYCLOPEDIA OF AMERICAN HEROISM. Send 25 Cents for 'a Specimen Copy at Once, and Gret up Your Clubs. Entered according to Act of Congress, in the year 1863, by BARCLAY & CO.         -  It the Clerk's Office of the District Court of the United States, in and for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania.   s  MSS MARTHA B'ROWNLOW; OR THE i ROINE OF T'IENNESSEE. Scene Firt.-.GAME OF THE TRAITORS. SooN 'after the-final culmination of the Southern conspiracy against the established government, and when the true Union men in Tennessee were about overwhelmed by numbers in the bar- room of a public house not far from Knoxville, a traitor Lieutenant and Captain were playing cards, drinking, etc., and with several rebel recruits, having a good time generally.' "Now, Lieutenant, for the '.rub,' as to which of us shall lower the 'stars and stripes,' at Parson Brownlow's, and kiss hisghandsome daughter," said Captain J'oslyn, emptying his glass of liquor and shuffling the cards.  -  "Not so fast, Capt., if you please; you propose too much at once. For rest assured that I am not so selfish, as to wish to win both 'honors.' - Give me the girl, and you can have the flag," replied Lieutenant Byrnes,. gaily. "Ha, ha  Good; very good for the gallant Lieutenant," laughed the soldiers.  "You are very generous, Lieutenant," said Joslyn. "But the 'fair are for the brave.' ' So let us take these-two fine points in our expedition up, one at a time, if you prefer--and first; for who lowers the hateful bunting." "Well; as you say, Capt. Let it be ,so :--proceed," and'so the game went on, the Lieutenant losing. "You see, Captain," said he, laughing '"to you belongs t1b honor of lowering the hated flag, and so humbling the Parson's pride. You have won." "Bravo, bravo!" shouted the soldiers in chorus. "'Captain Joslyn, count on us, in case the old devil should resist. We should    22         TEE REBEL PID.  like to have a hand in the pleasing task of bringing his dignity a well as his indignation down."  "Be not alarmed, my boys, you shall share the glory with me. "Captain," chimed in the Landlord, "that the old man will prove crooked and troublesome you may safely depend, and nmy advice to you is to go down -fully prepared for a stout resistance from the old chap; for by his ultimatum to the people, his last speech, you know, he'is as hard qs Hickory on the war."  "Yes, Capt., that speech must prove indeed, his ultimatum," spake Byrnes, earnestly. "For he is growing too defiant. His arrogance is becoming un1earable. He must be silericed.-But come now, for the girl." "Yes, Lieutenant," chimed Joslyn. ." That speech is the Par- son's last, I believe, unless he plays the lamb a-nd acts-.meekly.- But now, the 'rub' for the Parson's daughter,;or whlo wins the-gir'!.. "Aye that's the ' rub,' Captain," laughed the Landlord. . "' A 'IUb indeed, as is a 'rub,"' chimed the soldiers. "For the. Parson's daughter," continued the Landlord, as the play went on. "A handsome bouncing lass, a brave and noble girl. She would prove an honor to a better cause than the one rhich by her father she is forced to. espouse. She will prove a ,harming, a precious acquisition to the man who is fortunate enough to win her. A noble woman, just such an one to lead a , forlorn hope or a desperate expedition of any kind. She could pioneer where dangers were the thickest. She can now, after, attending her domestic duties, cross a sword, handle a musket, hunt, and follow in the chase with success, equal to any man of equal years in Tennessee,--and I would forewarn the man who is so fortunate J -win the honor of kissing even the hand of that brave girl, to beware; she will not be trifled with." "Ha, ha, ha i" laughed Lieutenant Byrnes. "You, see, Captain, you have lost. To kiss the Parson's daughter belongs to me, so the honors of our expedition, so far at least, seem fairly divided.- Now are you satisfied?" The sensual captain was far from being satisfied with the result. of his proposed game for the girl. Still he had lost and, poorly concealing his chagrin, he replied, "O yes, Lieutenant, of course I am satisfied, though thefairly appears all on one side.-It's a one- sided affair. I should have preferred the girl--" "But, Captain, you know that in war all is fair. Besides, have I not won her fairly?" '"Certainly, sir;of course you have. You played fairly. It's all right, and I am perfectly satisfied, Lieutenant, with my duty of hauling down the flag," said Joslyn obsequiously, though slightly chafing still. "But indeed, Captain," broke in the corporal of the company, "if what mine host here says about the girl be true, ycu will have quite enough on your hands at the Parson's without her." I'    THE REBEL FIEND.'         23 ookh, what the sub et  of her?" quivered Joslyn, anxious to, look at the subject m other point. "Well, that she 'is apt ith firearms and the sworc2. replied the oro    "Tatsh i          ?    replied she  a powerfll     ia rave, courageous girl,-in a word, fsh ofis apolnrg mine ded .and very dangerous woman." "Indeed, quite. an amazon,- I supose," said Joslyn with an assumed air ofindffiere n.,oset 0' a  d Joslyn wAth an assumed. air ofindierence ,and then murmured to himself. "Tush, I   gave lost a precious prize, just the kind o  D-n me; I'll have her yet" of character I so admire. "What'i that .you say, Captain, ot satisfied yt broke in Byrnes.                   yet? broke in Byrnes. "Come, let ustae ahother rnk. Drink death to all differences, and then g on our happy day     t  oe fa colored rag nw t know, Captain, the orders are, 'it must ome , "Ah that i    s just what I admire," chimed Bst was just  B h rll tm combs bf -said Joslvn, filling his glas i I, Tull o ef est and of ti' ' ae ur  carn au 'is 'a  e Parsn' daughter," .Bnat Iladmiredachingu Byrges. "'n tdanuer ad." re   s  e .  r  moi    which-risk and overcome."       ... "That'tesentiment," tkche  'lpoke the Ldrank"d o no. O YeSe3, Landlord : IIIbe carteful & wapreust w smiling he ined-- Hr" so he  r iwags wag asit will ....s  ere'ss toi our            gmis dsion d' perclarition.            ission. and to our foeos "Thats the sentiment', echoed all, and- dra'-k. ' men, for Parson Brownlow'sfsaid th yres, plar n on emptied 'lass.                 the bar is "We'll fSjwn his carcass, and bring him lowo. ' . So let the world wag, wag gs it will, They filed out of the hotel, singing gaily, and took-up their march for the residence of the eccentric Parson Br0nlow. &ee &cond..--R-.BRoWELOW AT'HoME - TIIE DAUGHTER'S DAN. GERS--HER HOPE-'OUR FLAG STILLT/HERE.' In the library-room of their snug home the beautiful ad oble Martha Brownlow sat readin              b.. Mareth Brwowsat preadinta some manuscript; near her stood her parent, just Preparing to I eave on a shorijourney. As hestood hat in hand, he turned to his loved daughter and teAdserly said, "Now daughter, I shall not be gone long. But, in the mean time, prepare all te copy you can, for the paper, against my returne" The obedient and affectionate Martha arose and said, ' I will do   so, papa. But hasten your return, please; for these are troublous times long to be alone." ' If you are fearful, Martha, I will remain at home to-day," said T'he tender parent. "O no, papa, do not mind it; 'twas a sudden thought only, that flitted through my mind; nothing will come of it," replied the noble girl, and looking from the casement out upon the stars and stripesf just floating off in the breeze from the flag staff in the centre of the lawn in front of the house, she continued: "Ishall feel perfectly safe, even in your absence, father. For 'our flcg is still there.' Purely, I am saf6 beneath its protecting folds. ' Yes, daughter, 'our flag is still there.' Heaven bless it, and -.youl" 'answered the parent, warming up with patriotism for 'the old flag. "'But that once glorious banner of liberty and protec- - tion to-day is disrespected and hated by men long blest beneath its bounties-men whose heartlessness and base ingratitude assi- milates them to the fiendish character of devils."  "Still, father, I feel safe beneath the roof overshadowed by its sacred folds,' chimed Martha, catching the inspiration imparted by. the subject. "And so you should, daughter, so you should. But the pure blendings of tht flag's blood-bought colors have been shot, trampled on, and trailed in the dust, even on American soil. Fiends there are, devils in human form, who, to-day, from the black recess of their heart of hearts, execrate and detest that sacred emblem of liberty." "True, father, they may perhajs despise that blest ensign of freedom to all. The traitors, though so abhorring the banner of the noble free, yet I cannot think Gould offer harm to me.' "No, daughter, the man who wo   ld dishonor that flag has no respect for the dearest rights of mPan. God bless you, my child, and shield you until my return "Saying which the tender father kissed his loving child and left the library, to be gone but a short time. And Martha, the heroine, was alone, singing in a subdued tone,  "'Tis the star-spangled banner, O long may it wave ' O'er the land of the free and the home of the brave." She again took her seat at the writing table, and busied herself with the correction and revision of copy for the press. "How silly in me to have forebodings of evil," she murmured. Then glancing again through the window, she continued, "With such protection as that dear old flag gives, why should I be afraid? Women there were in the American Revolution, who, with their husbands, fathers, brothers, sisters, lovers, braved every danger, faced the foe, and defended that flag against t\e assaults of our country's invaders. I emulate their daring example, and I'll pro- tect it now." She was startled from her musing by a loud rattling at the outer gate-a boisterous demand for admittance. Looking from the casement she saw Lieutenant Byrnes, Captain Joslyn   * .   , THE Z BTBJ FPIEND.   -    2'. / T and their recruits, gathering about the gateway, and gazing wist fully towards the house, and anon enviously, hatefully, at the stars and stripes floating so proudly over the lawn. 'Arouse my heart, be stout and brave," murmured the noble girl as she won- dered to herself:- "Who may they be? Traitors, no doubt, or they may be' some Union men called to consult with father, their counsellor, and they may want assistance.. Be it as it may, I shall ee; and, if I can, assist the loyal cause," she bravely concluded, approaching the gate entrance, as they renewed their, impatience for entrance by rattling more boisterously still the gate, she exclaimed: "Stay ; what would you?" ' We have business with Parson Brownlow, and wish to come v in," said Byrnes. "My father is absent. By what authority do you thus demand, abruptly, admittance to a loyal citizen's home?"Martha inquired. "By the authority of the commanderwof the' Southern forces in Tennessee, and in the name of the Confederate States of America." "Gentlemen, we recognize no such authority, no such power.  We are loyal," said the proud girl. ' "Then niust we come in," spake Captain Joslyn, harshy. "Gentlemen, I cannot admit you.. My father is absent." "That makes it all the better for our purpose, Miss Brownlow. Admit us. We will not harm you," said Byrnes, int a tone of mingled determination and solicitation. "Gentlemen, you say you have called to see my father. I am alone, therefore will not admit you," said the brave girl sternly. "I would leave a message with you for Parson Brownlow. Pray admit us, my dear." "I tell you, gentlemen, my father is not at home. If you wish  to see him you must call when he is here." "But we must come in now. That flag must come down. Draw down that flag 1"Joslyn saucily commanded. "No, gentlemen, I cannot oblige you in that either. That good old flag floats. very well where it is, and my hope and prayer is that it may long wave there. I will not take it down," spake the noble girl proudly. But she was suddenly startled afresh by Joslyn commanding his men to force the gate and take down the distasteful flag, who, as he led them in over the lawn, said, "If you will not remove it we will take it down for you."' 'But Martha, soon recovering her self-possession, and hastening into the house, soon emerged again with a well charged musket, and, taking her stand beneath the stars and stripes, brought the unerring wea- pon to her shoulder, like a well praotised veteran, and levelling it at her foes, exclaimed, "Back, sirs, back Draw down that flag, and I'll draw you down I Back, you cowardly dogs I Leave me, ere I make you bite the dust I Touch not the sacred folds of that good old flag 1"     THE RtERF T, FIEND.  Cowards as they really were, they turned and skulked away, leaving the heroic Martha Brownlow-unharmed. When her parent returned he found her again in the library sweetly singing: TOUCH NOT THAT FLAG. Traitor spare that flag;  Touch not a single star; In. shining glory now, And blazing near and far; 'Twas our forefathers' hand That placed it o'er our head, And thou shalt let it stand, Or perish with the dead. "Our dear old precious flag, Whose glory and renown Are spread'o'er land and sea, And whuldst thou tear it down?  Traitor I forbear thy touch;  Rend not its heart-bound ties; -  Oh, spare that glorious flag, Still streaming through the skies. 'When I was yet a girl I gloried in the sight, And raised my voice in joy - To greet its folds;of light- For it- my home is dear; Dear is my native land; Forgive this foolish tear, But let that old flag stand. "My heart-strings round thee cling Close as thy stripes, old friend; Thy praises men shall sing, Till time itself shall end. Old flag, the storm still brave, And, traitor, leave the spot; While I've a hand to save Thy touch shall harm it not."  cene Third.-THE WaITiJ SLAVE AND HS KIND MASTER-FREE- - DOM-THE SLAVE'S GRATITUDE.  "WeRl, Louis, you are punctual; and, be it spoken to your credit, you have served me faithfully now for many years." "Why, yes, master, 'tis true, I have tried to serve you well." This conversation occurred near the slave quarters of as beauti ful and productive a plantation as any in Tennessee. The place belonged to Lemuel Garfield. At the time of which we write, he was colonel in the Union army, endeavoring, against overwhelm ing opposition, to enlist the young men of Tennessee for the Union. Louis, with whom he was now conversing, had been te   28         TEE REBEL FIEND. him, as indicated, a faithful slave, though in color almost white. He had been to Garfield a confidential servant, a favorite. In answer to the reply of Louis, his master said: "Which. makes me indeed the more loth to part with you, Louis. But I have tried my 'best for a long time now to arouse our young men- tried to increase the loyal Union sentiment among us in sufficient force to repel our disunion invaders. But it has all been to no purpose. 'Tis labor for nought. I have been mocked and threatened, and now, before; many days have passed, that villain and plunderer Buckner will' be down among us, scouring the place, to either destroy or press us into his villanous army. But I have'made up my mind he shall do neither with -me. So, Louis, we must escape; I have concluded also to allow you a fair chance. Yourself and Emily your wife are now at liberty. 'You are free, Louis, to go where you please; and all I ask in return is that you will remain loyal and true to the Union. For in the end the government and the laws must triumph." "God bless you, master," said Louis, affected. "You have been always kind to me; but this last act seems the kindest of them all. You ask me to prove faithful to the Union. May my heart cease with life to beat, when I think not with gratitude of thee, or falter for an instant in my loyalty to the American Union."' Heaven bless you, Louis," said Garfield, taking his slave by the hand. "I believe you are sincere, in your gratitude to me. Pack up all you can take with you conveniently, and get ready to leave. Let us not loiter here, or we shall be captured." "Indeed, indeed, master, I love the old homestead," said Louis, mournfully. "So do I, Louis. But we must leave it, that we may return re- inforced with true men, that we may be able to retake and hold it." "When I leave here, master Garfield, I don't know where I shall go. 'Still I must hasten now to glad my dear Emily's heart with the good news that we are free."- "All right," said Garfield, pleased with his late slave's happiness. "But be careful, Louis; remain not here too long, or you may lose all; property, freedom and yourself. Let them not capture you- fly for your life." "Yes, yes; bless you, master. I'll look out for them. The rebels to catch me will have to prove very swift." "I ouis, be faithful to the loyal cause." "yes, master; I'll be faithful. God bless you. Good bye, good bye," the happy Louis repeated as he turned from his kind late' master, and walked rapidly towards his little home, at the slave- quarters. %   V         .  THE REBEL FIEND.          29 Scene Fourth-ScoUTING--ol; THE SCENT-THE REBEL FIEND-- HS MSSION. 'shoot.' I really believe if we had advanced another step, as she declared, she would have fired both barrels into us, which, of course, would most effectually have deprived us of the pleasurable recreation which we this day enjoy of scouring the wood and country hereabouts for adherents to the Yankee cause."  "D-m-d recreating tramping about here, hunting all dayn finding no game," said Lieutenant Byrnes petulantly, to Captain] Joslyn, as they emerged from a thick woods, and stood a momen on an emi'nce, with two or three scouting recruits, overlooking the surrounding country not far'from the very place where Colonel Garfield and his favorite servant had stood a short time before. "We cannot be very far from the game I think, for I am certain it was hereabouts I saw that busy rebel Garfield to-day," replied Joslyn, seizing a musket from one of his men and levelling it at something in the distance scarcely discernible. "And it is just as certain that the game has flown," continued Byrnes, still chafing with the disappointment with which they met at Parson Brownlow's.. "It may be so,-but let us not return to camp without a trophy of somp kind," and discharging his-musket he ejaculated; "Let us scour the whole place." "What in the devil's name did' you do that for?" said Byrnes crossly, as 'the rebel fiend,' towering like a collossus before them, sprang lightly, athletically from his place of concealment-the hollow trunk of a great tree on the edge of the forest. At his sudden abrupt appearance-to tlem, all started as if a bomb-shell had just fallen in their midst. In truth, he was a frightful looking character, not to say 'animal.' He towered up before them, not less than seven feet in height, hugely large. His right hand and same side of his face was white iA color, while his left hand and left. side of his face was frightfully black. His hair was black and bushy, the general contour of his head reminding you of the head of the buffalo rampant. Across his shoulders a coarse blanket carelessly hung dropping over his white arm, and partially con- cealing a naked knife or dagger in his hand, while in his left hand he grasped a charred flambeau, late extinguished, "Counsel with me," sternly said he. "On land and sea let your motto be, rough shod o'er them ride, 'To conquerfirst divide.' Then scatter, tear, and slay; and burn them on every side." Throwing his large brawny arm aloft, he flourished his great unsheathed knife on high until it gleamed in the sun like burnished silver. He turned on his heel and was about to disappear, again into the forest, as Byrnes, just recovering from the surprise his sudden   830         THE RpSMR. rFjJArj- appearance to them gave, gasped, "BtBu sir, who are you? What are you? Where do you come from? and what is your name?" "My name is,-no matter who I am, call me The Rebel Fiend,' or the 'Scout of Secessia,' if you please. For my business is that of a scout in the Southern service, and before my work is done no doubt I shall be called a fiend, indeed. My mission is blood. With fire and sword I reigned before,- By the same I reign forevermore." Again flourishing his weapons he disappeared in the woods. "That chap's a trump," said Joslyn, forgetting the poor calf he hadjust shot. He is full' secesh,' sure," chimed the men. "So, Captain, we shave received again our commission, to send all who oppose us down to perdition. To hoist. the black flag, no mercy show, and hastily despatch all Yankees below-down to the dominions of the gentleman in black, you know," rhymed Byrnes, sticking his sword into the earth by way of adding force to his speech, while Joslyn,.with equal vehemence, flourished his sword above his head exclaiming,  Aye, aye, such is our plainly appointed duty. To kill, destroy and gather booty, or 'beauty.' So let us to it at once together, 'pell mel.' To heaven, if we may, if not, then 'hand-in-hand to hell.'" And away they sped, "eager for the fray" their blood-thirsty souls on some foul and hellish deed intent. Just as they passed the spot, the- "Rebel Fiend" emergedlfrom the wood again, and looking after them in hellish glee as they sped on their determined errand of blood, he chuckled: "On, on, ye dogs of war, and cry havoc, bloody havoc, on all who our onward march opposp. Divide and tear asunder the union of our foes. Drench with their own blood the so-called rag of the free. Destroy it forever from the lahd and on the sea. The states are ours to rule them or to ruin, still let our motto be." Saying which the Secession monster dashed away through the forest again.  &Sene Fifth.-THE SLAVE'S JOY-SURPRISE-TIE ATTACK-RE TURN--DESPERATE ENCOUNTER-FLIGHT OF THE REBELS- PURSUIT.  the light mulatto, Emily, wife of Louis, was busily engaged in preparing their evening meal, when Louis, smiling and happy, entered to glad her ears with the good news of their release from bondage.-"God bless you, Emily; I bring you good news to- night. My' dear wife, at last we have our liberty.-Emily, we are free; free; bless heaven and master Garfield,.to go where and when we please." "Cum, cum, Louis, don't now poke fun at me in dat kind o' way Free --we free? why Loo, you dun no what yer talkin 'bout *                    Y    THE REBEL FIEND.     *     1 'Good news,'--yes too good to believe.-Ha, yah, yah a. We free, Loo? you makin fun ;-it can't be," laughed the simple hearted wife, unable, as her remarks indicate, to appreciate the truth of the glad tidings. "Yes Emily, it is indeed, true," continued Louis, kissing his young wife tenderly. "But the worst is we must leave here soon, to escape capture by the traitors, the 'seceshers,' as they are called. For, if taken by them we thall be sold again into perpetuaFlslavery. So master says we must pack up all we can at once, escape from reach of the traitors, and be true to the Union cause." "True to de Union," echoed the smiling Emily, the apparent truth of her husband's news. now breaking through her mind like the rays of the sun through an April shower of rain. "' God bress, yer, Loo, den, dat we am free am true" '" ' True as heaven, End master Garfield is about to remove from -here, and we must go too." "Den ob course to de Union we'll te true," chimed the happy simple wife, returning her husband's tender embrace affectionately. "God bress yer, Loo, yer am dearer to me now dan eber," She concluded.- "Heaven bless us, Emily," said her husband, kissing her again. "Now let us prepare to follow and assist master. While you pack up some things in the house, I will collect what I can that we shall need outside." He was leaving the room as she called to him,-"Stop, Loo, and git yer supper fust. It's allyready, come,--let us have our supper, an talk dis ting ober like.' "No, no, Emily; I will clean the old gun first that has been hanging so long in the shed unused. It may prove a useful com- panion in our travels; when I get the old gun ready, Emily, I will then be ready for my supper." He closed the door after him and Emily was alone again.  She busied herself about the room, murmuring to herself, "Free, free! Got yer freedom for eber. Dat sounds strange like to me; bery strange and bery queer-like. I dun no what it am,-what am it, anyhow. Wonder how it am cooked, stewed, roasted, boiled, fried, rawor in de shell. Ha Louis and I, Emily Nelson, his wife, free Hseems queer. But I guess it am so; Loo wouldn't tell me a lie in earnest, dat's a fac. Den he's gone to clean de old gun. It must be so, and no mistake. Freedom I O bress de Lor we am free!" and the newly' freed slave gave utterance to the melody striving to rise from her glad soul, by singing gore musically than she ever sang it' before,-' The Slave's' Dream.' But before she concluded there was heard loud knocking at thedoor, and without stopping her soul melody, her happiness perfect, full to overflowing, she said invitingly, "Come in.-Spec it's massa Garfield, comrn down to tell me bout it too.-Please to come in, Massa Garfield- always welcome to some ob Emily's nice short cake."   82     *THE REBEL FIEND. But she was speechless a moment as she turned and saw con- fronting her .Lieutenant Byrnes, Captain Joslyn, and several soldiers. "Ah -just in time here," said Byrnes, looking wishfully at the well done cake. and the smoking pleasant odored coffee on the table.  "What fur, sir sogers, yer just in time? What dus yer cum in 'fur widout 'witen," stammered Emily at length, recovering from her slight alarm at their appearance. "Come, come f my pretty wench, don't be quite so flippant with your tongue, but haste with your hands, and get us something to eat; we are hungry, and must have something to eat soon," commanded Joslyn, harshy. "You is white men; sogers, I spee yer. But, praps yer don't no dat I am free; ha, ya ya, ah I Bress de Lot, and Massa Garfield, Loo and I am free dis day fore God." '!p, ho I This is news, indeed. Beside securing our suppers by calling in here we have also caught a pretty contraband. Aye, even handsome; Where is your master," said Byrnes familiarly pertly. "Dun no; spec he's home tho'," replied Emily. But what yer *mean by dat name yer. call me jus now, ' contermand.'  "Ha, ha  It is contraband, my pretty one," said Joslyn, toying with her. "It means you are our prisoner; we want you and your master to go with us to-night." '"Dun no. But I don't tink dat so easy, kase we am free," replied the simple Emily. "That makes it all the better, and the' easier, my pretty little contraband," smiled Byrnes, chucking her under the chin., In the -mean time the soldiers were busy helping themselves at the table, and besides eating and drinking all they could, packing about their persons whatever they could carry away. Joslyn helped himself to supper, leaving Byrnes to toy with Emily. "Seehere," said the latter to the Lieuteuant. "You am a white man; I'se a free married woman., Please don't do dat agin-and see here, you tief," she said, turning to Joslyn as he was bolting away the last of her nice cakes. "Dat am berry bad manners, to say no wus 'bout it, and ef yer don't stop dat, I must call in my huzbam, Louis Nelson, wid his gun." "Take that for yer insolence, you wench; and if you don't want about forty lashes well laid on, you'll not open your mouth again," said Joslyn, angrily throwing at her from the table a loaf of bread. Byrnes attempting rudely to embrace her, she screams loudly for help, and pushing him from her he falls partially under the table, which, Joslyn trying to save him upsets, which the soldiers accept as a signal for destroying all the things in the place, in the midst of which having heard her scream, Louis with his gun enters, hastily followed by his late master. He fires at once at Byrnes   THE REBEL FIEND.          33 8 who as he entered, had just seized Emily again. But wounded in the left arm by Louis, he leaps up and draws, his sword on the avenging husband, who discharges the other load of his, gun at Joslyn, who strangely escapes from the floor unhurt. Colonel Gariield, more successful in his aim, brings down. both of the rebel soldiers at once, as they turn to run. Louis now dashes with / clubbed gun at Byrnes, who stands a second with sword drawn; ready and apparently determined to contest the issue with the en'- raged husband, but dexterously eluding the terrible blow intended to crush his skull he makes a rapid pass at his assailant with his weapon, but missing him rushes past him and escapes, bleeding from the wound in his left arm. Louis, beside himself with revenge, and spurred on by the sigfi of his prostrate wife, turns again, and with the butt of his gun aims a terrible blow at the head of the flying rebel, just as he leaps through the door. But the door-post catches the blow, and by its force the stock of the gun is broken from the barrel, and as Louis, raving and writhing with th e pain the rebound of the unfortunate blow has given him, the 'PRebel Fiend,' with drawn dagger and& burning flambleau, stands grinning in the door-way, and loudly chuckles, "Ha, ha! Now, does the work go bravely on. So soon my faithful minions catch thq spirit of my reign.-This is our right, we gain it by might, to scatter, tear,  and slay; and so we win our way.-By force and fire, and sword we reign, we. reign;"' and ere he could be prevented, with his blazing torch he deliberately fired the wooden structure, and then loudly laughing, dashed away, followed hastily by Louis, with the bare barrel of the broken gun. "Great Heaven I Emily, what has brought this about?" said Colonel Garfield, assisting the \ affrighted Emily to her feet. "Come, come,. Emily, we must escape from here, the house is on fire, and the rebels, or devils, are on us. Come, are you hurt?" "Dun no, massa; dun no; may be. I is.. Tink I is hurt some in dis shoulder. When Loo shoot at de soger, tink he hit me too." "Whar am Loo, massa? Hasn't gone And left us; has he, Massa? He told me we were free," said she. "Here he comes; he is here again. Come, Louis, we must pack up at once, now, and get away from here, or we are prisoners." "The villain, the fiend escaped me. But I'll have them yet. I'll be revenged for this night's work, Master Colonel Garfield, severely revenged. Every one of them rascals shall die for this, and more. Them two are settled for at any rate," said Louis, panting for breath, and turning towards the two dead soldiers shot by Garfield. "Master, you done your part well,'and I shall yet redeem my bad shots. But, Emily, you are yet alive. Thank Heaven, you yet live for me! Come away from here; let us escape from this burning house." "What, Louise what do all dis mean? Am de war bruk out on us poor negroes?"  /   84         THBI BEVEI FIEND.  "Dear wife, .the traitors are on us, certain. We must haste away ere fthe are back to carry us farther south and sell us into perpetual slavery, or murder us on the spot; either ofwhich they intend doing. Come." Again by the light of the fire the Fiend. appeared to view near them. "Master Garfield, please take charge of Emily until I settle with the fiend who has caused all this," said Louis; and bastily dashing after the secession scout, with his broken gun, exclaimed: "Now for revenge  I'll kill the fiend for this outrage. Save Emily, masterl .Revenge for my -oa and my master's wrongs!" and, despite of Garfields advice for him to think,now only of escaping, he was soon in close confli t with the rebel fiend, who rushed to meet him, -and savagely cu and thrust at him with his *long knife. But one fortunate blow from the old gun barrel knocked it from his bloody grasp to the ground with a;dull sfid; and Louis was about to close with and throttle him, as he was seized sddenly from behind by Captain Joslyn, who, assisted by two soldiers, secured poor Louis's arms with a large rope, making him most effectually their prisoner. The fiend, chuckling, re- gained his dagger from where it had fallen; and; as if satisfied with the turn of affairs, without attempting any more violence on the avenging Louis, pointed his dagger disdainfully at the help- less prisoner, and, flourishing his fire torch above his head, to Joslyn exclaimed, "Sir, if always you would thus successful be, , never fail first to take counsel with me i But still more to scatter, burn and slay, thus I haste and florish on my conquering. way." Flourishing his torch and dagger, he dashed away through ihe forest; and soon Lieutenant Byrnes, with the assistance of Joslyn and his scouts, succeeded, after some resistance, in capturing Emily Nelson and Colonel Garfield; and, together with Louis, they were urged forward into the traitor's encampment, now not very distant from them. "Come on this way!"Joslyn commanded, urging Louis on faster. "Caught at last ye are, another Tartar caught, ye hand- some contraband; come on this way, this way. And thus they were jeered insfilted, and urged onward towards the rebel encamp- ment. -3 IAR T    3S O : O C O  .X.  8 Scene Sixth.--MRE PRISONERS-BOLDNESS OF THE UNION SCOUT- "OUIS AND HS ENEMY. Early next morning they were ushered into the presence of General Buckner, that he might elicit in person all the informa- tion from them they could or were willing to give about the movements of the Union forces, which he knew were gathering at   THE, RE BEL FIEND.         86 length in lafge numbers, and preparing quietly to meet .him im battle.  "Good morning, Captain " said he, quite pleasantly, in answer to the latter's salutation. "You have more prisoners, I hear." "Yes, General, two-ortthree more here," said Joslyn, touching his ap, and again saluting Iis commander. "Bling them in." "A:ee, aye, sir," said Joslyn, bowing-retired to bring them t6 a hearing.  ' Ah, Ijieuteuait I what news this morning? ' Any signs of a further advancefrom the enemy. What, wounded 1 . This was spoken to:Lieutenant Byrnes, who entered just as his Captain retired. "FThere are evidences of great preparation, General," Byrnes answered, bowing, " but I think, of no immediate advance from the foe. We have': a few prisoners without. This," said he,. referring to his woun'ded arm,. which he carried, in a 'sling of linen, "is but a' slight hurt, received last night in a skirmish with. the enemy's pickets.",  "Liar!" exclaimed Louis, as he entered just ir time to hear the falsehood. And, writhing in his bonds (his arms were tightly tied  behind him) he stamped on the floor and revengefully continued: 'i Twas'I that hurt-you for your insults to my wife, and for firin, '. my home; and, could I free myself from these bonds, I'd finish ye  'ono the spot, ye lying scoundrel."  "Silence, sir, what do you mean by such language in my pre- sence?" exclaimed Buckner; and the soldiers attempted to hold the prisoner still. "Be quiet, or it will go hard with you," said Joslyn. Quiet, eh ye cowardly poltroois, I'd soon quiet all such as you if you'd take these fixins from my hands!" "Silence, I say!" exclaimed Joslyn, menacing him with his sword. "The General would speak with you." "Who are you, what are you, and what is your name?" ques- tioned Buckner. "I am, Sir General, a free man.?' .  'Most effectually bound," said Joslyn, in an under tone, pro- tokingly. My name is Louis Nlson,' continued Louis. "This is Emily,. my wife, also free, whom that dog there insulted. And this is my friend, Colonel Garfield, who once. my master was." "Louis,- on condition that we unbind and give you limited free- *dom, you will renounce opposition to our cause and take the oath of allegiance to the Confederate. States of America,-will you?" said Buckner, trying to soften the injured feelings of Louis, the better to draw from him what information he wanted. "General Buckner, never! When my master set me free I anwot. in   36         TBE B- BEB FIEND. I lose m n loyalty, may my life cease to flow. To the Americanu  Union, thGqvernment and the Laws I shall prove true. For the  Union Il die,: Louis answered himnnobly, emphatically.' Take -him aay. We'llgive him his choice suddenly for the :T*UaVionu to die," Buckner commanded sternly. "And now, sir, coiitinued he to Colonel Garfield. "What have you to say? what, S or name?" :  '"You should have known me, General Buckner," Garfield ctolly replied. "Ahem HWhy so, sir? Be not quite so presumptuous. It may prove worse for you. Who are you?". "My name is Lemuel GarfildCSolonel in the Federal or Unin service. Loyal and sworn to support the Government and the Laws. Strange you do not know your nephew, General, your sister's child:" h'   sut to the quick by the sudden revelation, Buckner blustered, "Take him away, confine him closely-and now, my little wench," he continued turning to the timid, trembling ily, as the soldiers thrust Garfield away and into close confinement. "What shall we get fromyou-information or impudence? What are you called, and what do you know?" "oh! massa Gineral Buckaneer, don't; please don't hurt my Louis nor my good massa Garfield," plead Emily earnestly. "Him berry kind an[ good to me and my Louis. - le sot us free and said we should 'tramp,' scape, fir ourselves, an we didn't. O massa Gineral Buckaneer, he am berry kind like." "Are you his wife? or who are you? What is your name "I'se de wife ob my husband, sir. Massa sot us free and told us to out and run, and now you've cotched us,-wish we had." "Well, well! You've told us all about that. What is your name, an'd what do you know?" pursued Buckner impatiently. "'Emily, sirl Emily Nelson,-same as my husband's, sir." "re there many soldiers,-Yankees and Hessians, down where you come from, and what were. they doing" he continued to question. "DTn no, Massa Gineral. De ony sogers I sede war dem dat brung us here. O massa, let massa and Louis go, and we'll neber come back any more." "Take her away.-Yet stay, Emily Can you cook?" said he, calling her back. "Oh'yes mass, cook berry nice.  "-Captain, set her to work.- Captain Joslyn, guard well your prisoners. Let me hear of no escapes. And now, Lieutenant Byrnes, let us go within; I have some further commands for you. They entered an inner room to quietly plan other deeds of out rage, oppression and blood, on all theyshouldfind in the least favoring the cause of the American Uaon.   e   Lb. -*   ' . TE II:bEBEL FIEND.     '  ' 8 Scee &Sventih.-FREEDOMXs FORlEST-HS DREAM-BBOWNLOW'S APOSTROPHE-FREEDOM AND THE FIEND. Low down in a beautiful valley, shaded by great trees, and sweet. odored shrubbery, surrounded by large mountains on every side; the sides and summits of which were covered also with trees and' vines and flowers thatihad grown here, flourished, changed, decayed, and passed away' and reappeared again in season, from time imme-' morial, undisturbed byg rude tread of men. It was. a place wild 'and romantic in il primal beauty. It was here, in such a place as this, i fraught with natural voices of sweet thoughts, and sacred solitude, I first found Freedom crowned with chaplets as a god, or the laurelled wreath of conquest and' victory.- .Reclining on a mossy mound and murmuring, as if to induce reflction -or- repose, he softly sung, "My country, 'tis of thee, Sweet land of liberty,  of theeI sing-Land oj the Pilgrims' pride; home where ourfathers died-From evety mountai's side, Let freedom ring."--Then, as if in dreamy vision, he softly murmuied, "'Tis sweet to linger here, among the flitting birds and leaping squirrels, wandering brooks, and winds that shake the leaves, and scatter as they pass, a fra. grance from the cedars, thickly set with pale blue berries. In these peaceful shades-peaceful, unpruned, immeasurabl- old- my thoughts go up the long dim path of years, back to the earliest days of liberty." And then as Freedom seemed .to repose soothingly, Parson Brownlow entered reflectively the woody scene, and in the language of Dryden, apostrophised,-'O0 Freedom, thou art not, as poets dream, a fair young girl! with' light and delicate limbs and wavy tresses,-a bearded man, armed to the teeth art thou? One mailed hand grasps the broad shield, and one the sword. Thy brow, glorious in beauty though it be, is scarred with tokens of old wars; thy massive limbs are strong and struggling. Power at thee has launched his bolts, and with his lightnings smitten thee.-Oh not yet mayest thou unbrace thy corslet or lay by thy sword; nor yet, O Freedom, close thy eyes in slumber." For thine enemy never sleeps; he shall send quaint maskers, forms of fair and gallant mien, to catch thy gaze and uttering graceful words to charm thy ear; while his sly imps, by stealth, twine round thee threads of steel that grow to fetters; or bind thee down with chains, concealed in chaplets. Oh, Freedom Hawake, gird on thy sword, and defend the refuge of thy latest home, America. Forget not forever, ' eternalfvigilance is the price of liberty.'" "Oh, oh, yes massa Brown,-high massa Brownlow; Gineral Price am cummin' wid his whole army, ob what yer call em de  rag cum muffins. He's cummin', sah,--will.)e down on us in a minit, and kill and take us all away.-O masta, sabe me, sabe me; sabe poor Pomp." Pomp was negro servant to Brownlow, and black as ebony.   88 X        THESREBEL FIEND. He came runnig upon his master's solitude thus in the greatest excitement; terribly frightened with the news he was delivering. "Why, Pomp; in the name of the-law what do you mean by all this hubbub?" his master inquired calmly as he could, under the provoking circumstances. '"Hug-bug.!-I means, I means," ,stammered he; panting for breath, with his long run, "dat Gineral Price; de man ye, was talking 'bout de wigilence Price; Pripe-ob Liberty,-Liberty creek, I spec, down dar in Missouri; am now fast cummin' to catch us all alibe, an kill us and 'burn us wid fire.-O massa, sabe me! sabe me." "Pomp, in the name of the law do you mean to say that the rascally rebel Price is approaching, in force?" "1No, no, massaI I e am not cummin4 in de name 6b de law Dare;amio law here now. But he am cummin' like de debil in' force,-widout any remorse; yah, yah,--to scatter and tar and clar us all away." "But Pomp, where did you find this precious bit of news " "As I was goin' to de Pos' Office wid de letters, I stop in de tabern, an a man on a horse, a horseman, you know, rid down pas de street, like as ef de debil was arter him, sah, and he hollered out loud as he could bawl, 'De .rebels am cummin',-Price am cummin'"' "Oh yes, father; they come, they come. Haste this way or we are all undone," cried Martha, rushing on the scene as they emerged from the woody glen. "O fly, father; fly, or we shall be captured, by the monster, Price. Haste; let us fly to some place of safety, until our friends, the Union forces, are prepared for battle. O haste, haste; they come; they come." "Let them come. They shall not take us without a fight; so Pomp, we must fight and retreat, until we reach our friends," and away they dashed through the woods to emerge again in an opposite direction, from whence their foes were pursuing them, Pomp making the forest resound with "Oh! oh I de debils am cummin," as he run. Amid all the noise and tumult of flight, Freedom slept on, and'the Rebel Fiend stealthily approached where he lay locked in profound sleep, and chuckling, with his fair side towards him, softly muttered, "Sleep on, O Freedom; sleep on, my old foe. Soft be the easy numbers, on this mossy mound, of thy gentle slumbers. Those wreaths of many victories bound round thy war scarred brow, contrast strangely and shade in fair relief these later chaplets with which I bind thee now.-Sleep on, for me 'tis not in vain, for while ye sleep I reign." With hard thorny thongs he succeeded, at length, to effectually bind and secure the god of freedom to theearth where he lay. About half a mile away, Colonel Garfield, Emily and Louis Nelson, having effected their escape from prison by killing the   tH tB REBEL FIEND.         89 guard,-dashed into the woods together; also flying, in the same direction as Parson and Martha Brownlow, from the rebel foe. "This way, master, this way l" cried Louis, as he plunged -into , the dense forest, his clothing torn almost from his body in his desperate struggle with Captain Joslyn. Catching his flying wif in his arms, he continued: "Haste, haste, Emily, or they will be on  us presently I though that white-livered, rascally captaif, I think will not be able to follow very closely, with that slug F his thigh. Ah, he falls I But the rest pass him by. They follo us. Haste! Emily; for God's sake, come, haste away "As tylungec i :- ' . thicket a volley of rifle balls whistled roh after them. In the mean time the Fiend, having been scouting through the. forest, again rushed, flourishing his torch and great knife, on Freedom, as he still lay, just arousing himself from his deep sleep. Leaping up, he fiercely drew his sword, and stood prepared to meet the Fiend, not a little to the surprise of the latter. "Off! back, thou wily fiend of evil 1" spake Freedom, loudly, which re-echoed on his assailant's ears with a stunning sound. ^ May"I not rest awhile from the tumult of battle without exciting tly envy, thou wretch and foe of man!" "Ha, ha, ha, I have thee nowl Down, Freedom, .downl" the Fiend cried gruffly, savagely, and rushed on Freedom to strike. But'the latter, throwing up his sword point, parried the blow' intended for his heart, and defiantly exclaimed: "Twin born with man, I am his earliest, latest friend. :Tyranny has oft dug deep for me his dungeons. Merciless power, by a thousand fires, has forged for' me. his chains, and has smitten me with his scourge and lightning bolts. But Tyranny can never quench the life which Freedom draws from heaven. For, while he deems me bound, behold his links are shivered, and the prison walls fall outward; and, as springs the flame above the burning pile, I leap forth, armed to the teeth, and the pale oppressor flies." "Never l" cried the Fiend, rushing again to the fearful encoun- ter. "To be weak is miserable. Co-existent with Lucifer, son of the morning, I am, and therefore dare contend with thee. Born of power, I have ever been the foe of man, and shall be to the last. My motto rule or ruin is." "Then ruin be your end, as it is your aim, and disturb no more my peaceful- reign." The Fiend now, unsheathing a large sword, exclaimed furiously: "I take you at ygur word; I rule by fire and sword. Freedom shall never reign except I first be slain." "Then slain you shall be, should my blade not fail me," Freedom answered bravely, and they rushed together in the shook of battle, while the forest resounded with the roar and   ,.40          E REBEL -TIEN.  rattle ,of rebel cannon and musketry. And again tBrownlow, Colonel Qafirfid, Louis and Pomp, appeared on the seene, loadiAg and firing their weapons, in rapid reply to the random aim of their foes-Pomp, jumping about like one possessed, crying: "D^t's it, Massa Brownlowl Do 'em brown; shoot,'ema down, and gib de debils -hell. ,Pour it into 'em; gib de debils h-; more dan dey want to take, away wid em :". while the Fiend, having lost his sword, kockled from his grasp by a powerful blow from -his foe, staggers off, reels and runs away. Freedom, attemping to pursue him to the death, stumbles andn falls, and finds, to his great -chagrin, that he is yet tied to the earth. ' This seems enchanted ground 1" he ejaculates-with hellish schemes enchanted-secession traps and snares." Soon the flaming evidence of a revenge worthy of the Fiend flashes up all- around the place. The forest, the bridges that cross the numerous streams here, the tenement houses, the fences-in. short every thing that will burn, even the crops in the earth-are all on fire, blazing by the torch of the "Rebel Fiend, the Scout of Secdssia," presenting a terrible tableau---with patriots of freedom flying from their treacherous foes in the darkened, smoking background- a single emblem of liberty, the stars and stripes, yet appearing away in the distance, sadly drooping down the flag staff," amid fire and smoke, the cannon's roar and sabre's stroke." O, those were soul sickening days of despair to the patriot heart, when the once loyal State of Tennessee was overrun with traitors to the govern- ment and the laws, the rebel fiends of "Secessia 1" "Colonel, they are too many for us here," the lion-hearted Brownlow was compelled at length to. admit, addressing himself to Colonel Garfield, as they together emerged again from the burning forest, some distance from their pursuers. "We there- fore better make our way, swift as we can, towards the border, where our friends are more numerous, and preparing, though slowly, yet surely, to crush out this most-wicked rebellion\ at once. With the Union army we can return, and do greater execution than alone." "As you say, Parson," said Garfield, "but really I should like to scout round here that I may yet get an opportunity to teach that swaggering uncle of mine, General Buckner they call him, the nice degree of relationship existing betwixt us; since he has east his lot with conspirators and traitors, I should like to teach him, Parson, how far less to me than a stranger is even the kin of brother, that despises and dishonors the banner of the free. The ma, or the resemblance of a man, who insults that flag, dishonors me: he is no relative of mine. To such an oie my duty is death. Ho, Loiis I where have you been?" "The devils, they fired my home and attempted to murder me. I've fired theirs. I'll give them blow for blow, the skulking   THE RCpiUT FIEND.         41 sneaking miscreants-'" cried Louis, hoarsely; and, striking his torch against a' tree, panted a moment for breath. He had com- mitted another deed of vengeance, and then fled a long' distance. ' Yes, golly, massa, yer: ought fur to seen de-way we burnt 'em, We set dar ole Hog House on fire. Phew, gollyj how it did burn. do; yer ought fur to seede it, But I wouild'lie to got some ob de meat, do," grinned Pomp. 'What I have you fired the' Pork Factory?" "He, he I yah, yahl gollyr, m s, yes De Hog Factory am burnin like blazes to kil. Golly, dey hab plenty ob roast pig now, massa." "Yes ;,and the wind is fair to-night for it to sweep into ruins half of Nashville. The fiends' of furies direct it to the capitol, and by fire purify the place from, its corruption and oppression most foul " said Louis, flourishing'his flaming torch on high. "Fearful retributionl how soon following their crimes their. punishment begins!" reflected Brownlow, looking towards the city as the flames burst forth firiously. "Ay, Parson, 'tis glorious that we can thus return them double for all they have inflicted on us," said Garfield.' "But we lose time here, and may lose our lives; come, let us Away: Heaven be merciful to our foes!" continued Brownlow. "The Fates punish themn fully and well, for all they have done!" replied Garfield. -  "Ay, let the very stars in their courses fight against them, and all the furies unite to torture them to the full 1" said Louis. "Yah, yah  amen to 'dat! roast dare hog, dare pork well fur deml de fires gib dem roast, burnt pig till dey am sick ob pig and secession!"Pomp grinned. ",Hark I They are approaching this way in force." "Ay, they come, they come I we must away, away to the bor- ders 1"Brownlow urged, and away they sped, fleet as their feet would bear them.               , The Rebel Fiend, recovering himself and sword, again attacked Freedom before he could get from the forest. Rushing on him he yelled, "NJow,'by the flashing light of this flame, shall Free- dom be slain!" "Rather by its light my life I regain. And my good trusty sword, for your deeds I shall give you your reward," cried Free- dom, defiantly, as they rushed together-their swords ringing together with a clashing, clanging sound. "No man of woman born can measure swords'with the Son of the Morn," echoed the Fiend. "Freedom  is not of woman born. Before man was I am. Blest Nature in her purity first gave me birth. Before .the mountains were' settled, before the hills was I brought forth; when he prepared the heavens I was there; when he set a oom.   - ,i  . illI I 1 1j    - ']-it Inb'nJ u . 11 ,L,/ , .. ./l ' -. pass on-the face of the deep; w*1en- ie -gwte tfihea-hiiiSdeoree; when lhe appointedc the f6undations-' of the earth, then I was by him as one brou*t" up' with hini and my dalights were with the sons of -men. 'While yet our -race. were .few J sat with him :to attend the quiet' flck, and watch the stars, and. teach .the -eed-to ^  utter simple airs; and by his side, amid/the tangled -wod, did warupont the .panther and the. wolf, then his o flyhfoes But - agin the spirit of the past ison me, and 'I strike to give'liberty to the captive and full freedom to those that are bound," Freedom exclaimed, again attacking the scout with renewed and terrible vigor.         -                 ' "Your boyish rule I dispute, hand to hand arid foot to foot,"' the Fiend chimed.         -          . "Thus do I break the power of the Fiend. "hen we contend -  again it shall be to the death. ' For the day of vengeance is it my heart, and the year of my release has :come," Freedom exclaimed, knocking: the wea'on from the Fiend's grasp, while, as he fled from the forest howling with pain, Freedom leaned contentedly on his sword, watching his course over the plain.  * - / * ' -     at '  P A  IT T. ..:T;    D. -K   -- :*-  Scene Esghth..-TRBEACHERY-THE SPRING' POISONEER-THE SCOUT  ABOUT-FREEDOM AND THE' PICKET. '  In the edge of the forest, near the Union, encampment, n6t fat from Spring Mills, on a hazy moonlight, evening, .a scout may have been seen darting and dodging about-starting forward into the sombre light, levelling his musket, and, without firing, again  recede {nto the shadpw of the trees. It was Louis Nelson, who, still keeping his eyes on some, object resembling a large hog, approaching slowly and hovering round a large spring of water, which supplied that wing of the Union camp. Louis, the scout, muttered, "I think I know that porker-have met him before' and again levelling his gun at the object, he mutters: ' He's the, monster that I' shot in the hand, and caused me to wound my Emily. 'Still I will not take his life in this way; I'll give him a chance." And his gun dropped to the scout's side again. "But I' take him, though; ay; that I. will--.alive. too. The wretch, he wants to poison that spring, and so this brave Union army here, the rascally .wretch."  It was so. Lieutenant Byrnes, disguised in a large hog skin, and gradually approaching the spring on all fours, was just- in the act of throwing a large quantity of poison into the water as Louis sprang on hita with , yell of vengeance. The traitor, suddenly rising on his feet, nearly succeeded in throwing the scout to the ground, and grappling him by the throat.    ,  e i-ie ket, who slsepiry walked to and frc near the s ring -deelved by the appearance of the "hog," now illy arosed and alarmed, dischrged hi piece, but without effect, further than :fooliShly to arouse that portion of the camp. "Ha, ha, ha, my fine porkerl I ought at last, and alivie tried to 'escape, did yel but I have you now, my pretty pig" ex- claimed the scout provokingly. "Tried to throw me, toq, did ye! Yer my prisoner .and I thought I would just ride ye into camp is the re&son why [ jumped astride of yer back' as'ye was down on all fours. Here, ye stupid picket, if I was not a better shot than thatyou just fired, I'd never look at a gun again; and we should have lost this precious pig, and you would have gained a luxury from; thi ,spring to-morrow in the dessert of arsenic, which would have released you from picket duty here, but to shoulder your musket.' againsta. sea of troubles,' perhaps, in that' country from whose bourne,' as the bard has it, 'no traveller returns.' Come, wake up, and help get this porker into camp; I want to show-him up to the general commanding." "You, cannot pass, :sir, without the countersign," said the picket, presenting his musket at the scout. "Ha, ha, ha 1 well, well I here's a nice mesi I got an important prisoner, a traitor Lieutenant, and we cannot pass the guard, eh?" laughed Louis.    , "Call that pig a prisoner?" grinned the picket. ' Well I do-really a valuable porker-caught in the death- deserving act of poisoning the water of the camp. It is only pro. tracting hi misery that I did not shoot him on the spot. Prisoner, show, not your hand, but your face, to the picket, then; perhaps, he will let us passl! Louis commanded him, facetiously.. The trembling traitor reluctantly obeyed the command; and, raising the hog face, exposed his own. But the pictu  he thus presented to the picket so affrighted him that he exclaimed-giving Iouis the countersign himself-" 'Lexington.'. For God's sake, scout, haste, take him away." And, being, relieved by another taking his post, he followed the scout and his prisoner into camp. The new picket had paced his post but a few times when he was con- fronted by Freedom, emerging from the forest, and who, as he attempted to cross the lines, cried: "Back, sir, backl You cannot pass " " "What, do you not know me? Will you not allow Freedom to pass?" "None can pass sir, without the countersign." "Not even Freedom?" "My orders are imperative, sir; to let none pass." "You do not know me then,-you are young, perhaps; yet you should know well an old warrior, like me,-grown old in battle; and bearing about me, the deepest scars of many a conflict in Liberty's cause. Then my aSquaintance,- my companions in arms are   THHE .KGJ5IL FIEND.       40 -numerous. My references,-my ancestry. are good. - But not to prove tedious and antiquated in recounting; Louis Kossiithfought  for me,-a few yetrs since, in poor, struggling Hungary, and latei still, the noble Garibaldi--Italy's great liberator-has done me good service;-also' the veteran General -WTinfield Scott, has fought for me faithfully and long. Ini sooth, I am 'not too vain t' say,' that with his noble battle scars crowning his brow and his ripe declining years with victorious wreaths, there is a remarkable resemblance betwixt us. Then there is the youthful, noble-souled General McClellan, has given his life to my service. But I cannot stay to enumerate,-time would fail me to number the noble army of martyrs, who have fought for me.-General George Washington ,and I fought side by side, for many years; during the early days of the American republic. But later stils General Fremont, and many others know me well.-Young soldier let me pass." "Sir warrior, I respect you for the dangers through which you have passed; the conquests you have won,--but you must not pass," said the picket, presenting his musket. "And why not, sir comrade," said Colonel Garfield, coming up to where they stood.   " '           .  " e does not give the word, sir," the picket replied. .  "Oh I guess he is only trying you, young soldier. He certainly has our countersign," continued Garfield, conversing with'Freedm.\ "Young soldiery!' said the latter, "I fought at 'Lexington.'" "All right," said the picket.           . "Ha, ha, hal I knew he was all right," laughed Garfield, takib'g Freedom by the arm and crossing the lines on their way. "Free. dom and I are fast friends. I know him well, young soldier." As they neared the head-quarters of the General, Martha Brown- low and Emily Nelson stepped nobly from a tent, bearing a beautiful -silk flag, and welcomed Freedom and Colonel General Garfield, it is now, by charmingly singing "The Star-Spangled Banner." Scene Ninth.-THE CONTRABAND'S CARNIVAL-FALL -OF FORT DONALDSON-TRIUMPH OF FREEDOM - DEATH OF THE REBEL FIEND -BROWNLOW'S HAPPY RETURN HOME-JOY- CONOLU- SION-"OUR FLAG STILL THERE."- Just back of the Union camp, at the slave-quarters, Pomp, sur. a rounded by a large number of contrabands,-men, women and children; was, one fine sunny day, cutting up all sorts of antics,- laughing, singing, and enjoying 'himself as best he could, in his own inimitable style. "Ha, ha, yah, yah 1" he laughed. "Lilly, I'se so glad yer cum.-I dun no what to do wid myself. De yur ob Jubilee am cum, an I'se so glad; yah, yah. De day ob de pentecost am cummin'; and I'se berry happy. I say Lilly; my lubly dear, Gineral Fremont am a great mountain. De great stone what we read 'bout, you know; ' -    On   *    THE RBBEL FIEND.        .  what smitede image of treason, de great'Juggernaut, de'big id' O deSouth, you know; on de feet, and set all de nggers fe.- Ha, ha,'yah, yah; andI'se, berry hazzard happy like. Golly; Lilly he am de mountain ob feedom. Thus the happy lack expresse  his joy, at his'prospct of libertyto Lilly, his betrothed . a jet blac contraband, embellishing his odd speeceswith various grimace and antics, leaping and frisking about like one possessed. "Lilly, as we used to sing down in de meetin', we shall come tc Mount Zion, wiMd songs and wid laughin" kase we am free,.--ya yai .,.Golly, Lilly; guess Massa Fremont am d'eMount Zion. Let Us go see him, Lilly. Massa Fremont deman what would set all de poor niggers free n what would set al O yes, Pomp; I should like to see de great FremoHt. eav bress massa ,Feont, and gib de debils Jessie." "No, no; Lilly yer don't mean dat. What; gib Jessie to de debil. Why Lilly, my lub; does yer know da  Jessie am de Gfinierat' .m ..... T    e,   know dat JessMi am de Ginera's mudd er; or no,. I don't mean dat,-I. mean his wife; his bitdgecamp, you kndw. Why she am de one what plan all hi "Golly, Pomp; I nebber knowed dat.-How yer find it out? Whar did ye git yerlarnin' from, Pomp o? "e, he; hihi!  Golly, Lilly; ye make me feel as Iwas sumting, snab," grinned Pomp, strutting about, and putting on the most absurd air of supposed dignity. AnI say, Lilly, we will be sumting sum consequence, too ;-kase dey am goin'toederficate de p igger.-.For- God, Lilly, de bracik man 'still 116.' But gers round him, and in de middle, Jessie; his woman, yer know; uand I watch r chance, and when she want a bucket o' water I jumped at de r"'et, went to de spring, an had de water at her feet, while der serv nt was looking fur de bucket. And when I cum dar I sede her wid a big pen in her "hand, with'a great big paper befor her, what de white folks calls a mop or map, I dun no Which; anyhow, I tuk it to be a mop ob de shampane, or de plan Ob de big battle, 'bout to be fit.": But Pomp, what did missus Jessie want wid so much water?" Lilly inquired, while Pomp straightening himself up, honored by the inqiry said, 'To .bile more dink, to plan annoder battle- annoder shampane. And dat am de lady, Lilly, what yer said jus now to gib to de debil. Lilly dat won't do,--we couldn't do wid. out her yit-.- " No, no, Pomp I didn't mean dat--I-only meant for Massa Fremont, to gib de debils--dem 'bad soger men, what cum from Georgy, Tennessee, and udder places down south, to fight us- 'Jessie,' dat is lick em good, so dey won't cum back any more; gib em blazes, you no; an plenty wat dey calls, little more grapes." "Yah,'yah I Dat am de talk, Lilly,--gib dem grapeswid stons   : \   .   A     '        . . THE REBEL VIEND.          47  -in. em so tarnation big dat dey can't swaller em; but choke dem to defth. Gib dem grapes dat shall fer eber: be 'ower to demo But Lilly, lub, let us call'on Massa Fremoon:'bott it" . They danced and laughed away, followed chynthe whole con- course of promiscuous contrabands. '"'.au y :dar- ; annodei debil rebel gone," said Pomp, dancing and ipi g bbefore Lilly, and pointing to the body of the traitor Bymesiahaging from the gibbet.. '                ' "The wretch is executed at last, and so on him I am avenged," said Louis Nelson to Garfield, as they passed by together'for another part of the encampment.  .  "Yes," replied the latter, "and tie commonwealth is relieved of a very useless member, and the country at- large, rid of one villain-one traitor'more. So should all traitors die.- But Louis, let us to horse; the rebels are advancing on us in force. To horse, to horse; and charge on them for your home.-For your country charge,-the Government and the Laws." "Aye, aye, Colonel! 'Lead on,-we strile now for the Union and Liberty's cause." And away they rode, leading the advancing columns of the Union forces at Spring Mills, directing their course through the thickest of the fray, amid the roar of the. cannon, the incessant rattle of musketry, the flashing of sabres, and the clang of arms generally. Louis, dashing on recklessly through the incessant storm of leaden hail, that rattled in death-dealing showers around themnon every side, as his noble charger fell under him, pierced by a dozen bullets, he drew his sword to guard, just in time to save his life from-'a  desperate plunging blow from the Rebel Fiend, who, having been in 'all parts of the field on his bloody work; espied Louis, the Scout, and singled him out as a shining mark for his weapon. But the blow was dexteroussly parried, and aThahd-to-hand encounter soon ensued between -them. "Monster fiend, ye must be of the devil- born," cried Louis, in revelge, "or yet of sterner stuff than my good blade is made. For thrice has my trusty steel pierced thy garments through, And still thou art before me, strong with life as ever. But slay thee yet I will.-For to be revenged I've sworn Y "Ha  My life immortal is;-no man of woman born can ever ' slay Lucifer's Son of the Morn," echoed the Fiend, thrusting des- perately. But Louis closing with him, grasped his cloak, out of which the fiend, being hardly pressed, slipped and fled the field. "He fights as one possessing, indeed, a charmed life. When we  contend again I shall know," said Louis, in disappointment, still grasping the coarse cloak, and gazing revengefully after the flying form of the Rebel Scout.  "Follow them, boys,-'-on boys, on. They fly, they fly," ex- claimed Parson Brownlow, encouraging the* men to pursue the traitors to the death.               ' Aye, go in boys; qa anonward still. We've got 'em now   48R ,l Trn wr;kn PIEND. Potr it intori 'em. Give 'em i-h.-1nd ' .eiolumbia," shouted th e eecentrig ( .fifhs      coat a f d throwing it up into a tree, dashing.^7e6JAe!e- the flying foe. ]is brave and hardy men  11follw i I   plethowing up their. caps into the air wlth-a wldl, t:dhed after their daring and noble leader with the wildest mt        r '  "Colonel, tha tiralt General Zollikoffer .is -kled, .hot through the hear and his whole cornmand is com  ei roied" shouted Louis; a he dashed past his former master into4he'thikest of the fay, flying ove the- wounded as theyj lay in his waly, ,th dying and the dead; after te routed7 enemy, who, were cattering andflying from the field .ilthl wildest disorder.,. .  "That's - glorious- news. 'ur it into 'm,boys, and drive the traitrs froa- the land," yelled Garfield tolisi en. L 'ook there, boys that a grand hand-to-hand encounterlTake a lesson o Freedni  d the Fiend4iand-to-han, were contending in a dis- tant pa  s feld, isolated almistfrq- ;the rest of the combatants. TT     h;- base end f;evil. If more than man, then not ^     evil; we meet again, in -this unholy war. Man's yte  o",joy        t oe a ;rme evermore, shouted Freedom, as.   i sword he  r ,    d blore the Fiend nearly to the  '; but tha.1[. '. veri i ted up, exclaiming t y taunts have no effect on a, eu a *and o'er.; I reign henceforth ;/p/  ophet alee, base nthing of evil, union is of love, disunion of e:v-l. rLeave us no more thy .lack deeds as a token ;get thee - '    to Pluto's shore; leave our liberties unbroken; and with eure our land no more," Freedom shouted, with all his +%'f?; a . -they a gai n came fogether, in-the te:rible, fatal conflict -  bOv irbe nby, e 'domy, the rugged Rebel Fiend fell; sank downa eau4 be 'a' -h. well used sword, drawing which firom ,. i/' her :-p ig th hi da and corrupt blood, he drew his swordi :on,  : ia  leaping o f toe ie body of the Fiend, ,stood on it in :tniuph, While the weFl   u ng, agai4 and againwith the hldaous shout  of'victory' the noble. rankS . bf. :theUnion ,army over, Fows ery   , D Son, an New Madrid tlT  it are, driv, -fr'om ent g -is ouri an4 Tennessee; alnd the abpsed; 4how         Martha hia hiericl tnuda ithfu f^ '^Kgly'lSn   , 'the 4e   tnoble wife-of ouj the P^   e eccentris ^ b^ y ^ doI jt lhwk    ontra. ,'   idpen ofdoIrse, oloW4. ,?:it Oarfield1had the sial'  eihg th 'tals    1   W hsoa foe eh AS o in iwnog 'Svuwj   B --r.0   * -. -           *         - -. 1; , homeestdandMartha after singing. waith EIini,:^ (, ma t, : -. gem  ^ of 'Oced "-looking from the sam&on e 'no :}t ou^ :t h beauti^ lr surroundinig the place, exolai'a , b  withe eazooy Yes, daughter, and 'Long my it 'wave '.  O'erfie landof ; t frec, and tjs  WeUed .up from the heart of- that perseuted matand fel ifrom.  hi ips m response, earnest -andwarm, as-hetrue heart's sincert May our'good 1 fag,--lirty's noble ensign, be . -gem .of "-kfing from: ' .h 4  ever hno   lved at. home; and respected . o evee.. .-. ' onluded Pasonroulow's pue and phtriotcdatg 9 ht i  ' sr, Ihe * andoftfe, 'and- tie Ird' s' ' Sao  op fri        J    
             
         
       
   
