
    ----CITATION----
        Montesano, B. R.. Redstick, or, Scenes in the South .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC7271
    ----FULL TEXT----
         
      
         
            Redstick, or, Scenes in the South 
            
               R EDSTITCK:
OR,
SCENES IN THE SOUTH.

$'r D.

M e3E 8 A NO, 13q.

O! LOUISIANA
--His praise is laugh   rom the old and young.
Cometh t is incense to our man FFx.
The rended clouds, whose scattered, jagged seams.
Reveal the rays of light in golden streams !
CINCINNATi:
P PUBLISHED BY U. P. JAMBS.
NO. 167 WALNUT BSTRZET

', 1 .11


A~ L t 1~-~L\

HAqAARP $6LLIG    LtrfI    $f
~  FHOM4     A
fTHE BEQUEST OF
EVERT JANSEN WENDEtt
19818
d i

I  .1                        7

i           ,

Entewcd seording to Aet of Congreue, In the year se,
3 U.P. JAMES,
In the Clqrk's Office of the District Cow of the United States for the Southern District of Ohit.
o  i t '                                      .                          - F

7

i-+a of     4  *  s U    J ./  #~

A  l.
0 #

TO WILLIAM S. lIKE, Esq.
STRANGE hands may turn thir page and strange eyes
glance o'er your name, to forget it before the quivering leaf
has settled in its pa1we. But warm hearts in the Souti
will join with me in the justice of this small tribute to one
who found Redstick a country village, and by his enterprise
and liberality, aeisted by st few of a kindred nature, has-
made it what it i- -n ornowaxa to the Pelican State an
the pride of i citizen.                      D. C.


{ r

S'

r    j
if    i       5
S
t  A       y   i     j
i       .               f
}       r

,   i     y
r
i ,  ,
1  +  .
4
c

OONmT1~IT$

LzAvixe Houx-A new friend.,A~riv0,lo 14eteeer-Mac-Old Push..Maeo
tIcok oix Old Pu-Ct  aud' t aa~~Mao said Old rush.,...7'
Ab* i"ad'  tdtO     sognk  ti 4rIve%'.'h*Ivul ab 3tsitc*&amp;" Wa
A general mix-up and grand $rqe filoh. b1 ;  ~ .*10
Commencing a prfsio-a a-~res"  e,,litidord on hog meat and pork in
bgeneral-Refuran in the al... *
Rutf, sparcm-Unole Joo_-&amp;iac _It  kr n te live 9t1~e~ neos-0" Qld Day"--7",01d
,an aleM !      debn -d'la   'Iadjb-k~iit OL"
ot iMt-"A
hun reewe netAO Vied n gJ tbd *ewt h raha-Hr
7tivep   be     - #    "', 4  ~    ~      T~
le T- IeII.-
"Tuhwllotr aetie       ft 4t  oh"ie
gull.ardric-~e4tcc  n  the  it      Iii~ tiv
ka  . %  1  A ss''
ypMpuw                   MR Jsta f4,
p  vor    V

. 4,. ,

9    Y      J       Tyr

g
1
L

t
5
r                                        '      S
4                                                v   5   '

a
t           a                           #     +
a                       A
K
w                  f                                    (
t   'Y                             t f       !          1    L
1         ;              t t

r

t        4 i
t3; "             ,  7 Z        i     }           .

f
_. i a

s    =        q
Y          a,    f r               '    7' i 7 c
4
i      ',i
4                    _+  i


CONTENTS
CHAPTER XI.
Stor' "too good o keep "-Hall and Mac "ripped around "-Visit to Col. Peter
wadd's-Hunting-Wild turkeys-Four turkeys presented to Esquire Smythe.
who in return fends a bill for 24 turkeys at $4 per pair, with characteristic note.
blowing up the party-Affair settled..............0-0 - -0 - -9-a - -9--9-, - -........... 42
CHAPTER X1I,
Fire brick duel-Uncle Jim-     d'JPER4tkXI at.ical jokes-A comical duel-.
Fun for Uncle Jim and the Coro21-Billya  J401satisfied..............44
CHAPTER XIII.
&amp; pie nic-Fourth of July-The party-Col. Purse-Story.telling--Ladies alarmed
-Purse in a fix-Amusig scene-'Dinner-Too much wine-- uspende4 by the
eoat tails in a tree-Released-Oicf ko"ylanditle magnolia tree-Pants burst. 47
0  .'s IH "Po:l4X' i Y.-
eerybody leaving town-YaLfever.-Visie toCol2Wa     's-To Eq. amythe's--
Watermelon patch-Some scanipist Als m-lobs-Gentleman suspected-Try to trap
kiid Duihavihuifer canghtiMore vigilance--More melons 4vstroy dt-Suyt~he trp
enddahootsond of hia450 dogs-u a ragedere--Tries aga4,--oXy caught..
John Gelpn-A sketch of him-Pathetio ed6e-Elebted to the Legislature,.  55
C'APT'E R      XVI.J
Return to Redstick-Love scene1iposal-Mistake......................58
HA PT'ER       XVII.
.qnsiegr Jan Baptiste b a, p B;ren onnierre. Esq.-A charscter-Oheck-
shirk arftmen-ar       pene--.-nlegg ta en in-Dinner at Tonnierre's.--
frafemen  di sl i'                    Wj on'the stomach   .   .1161,
Ilinof fare-Cats dresse as rabbits--- M  ng set we5lo  h  tmc....     1
0 H 4 P;T I RX ;YI 11.-
Barbacue at Seven-up Creek-" lAg Devil's Run"-Crossing-An amusing incidept--
C91. Wadd took. a d          ie-jas in shloa i 4r  .11 ;disrobes to cross-MiAkes a
Oinpfgure on his horse-Taskesvs e oot. 1ep0l4e ladies come in sight-The tup
speeches-The storm -A   fight-Platfom' breaks down-High wat
Devil'gllun..........................------
CA i&amp;rPT E        J1-k
flettion'day-.Voters treated--Prinkin Hollow'toll--Anxiously waiting for returns
fA gene-al rough and tumle free  ght-  nukin Hollow courier-Too glorious
Ao gie satisfactory informatioi-Nove way  deciding a nomination..    67
CHAPTER XX.
;ha horse-race-Betting-Judges in a muss-Couldn't decide who beat.-:Second
'teat--A furious bulf initerfres and causes  reat donterntion-Matter agiin
aettled-Hall wins the race..   .     ,     ..   -69
CHAPTER         XXI.-
be ek tion-Col. Wadd beats Hall-Lyceum started-Fails-Thedpian doe ety-=
"seUnperformance..................---------------. -'---.----73
C    APTE'TR    X X I I.
3ae nt&amp;eere-Hall attempt tsto fool the elephant and cuts a ridiculous figure.-
Elephant at large-Creates giiat'alarm-Eoffts to capture him-Tonnierre in a
4aee-Quiet at last restored.... F...   .     ........... ---------  ---------76
OHAP T E R:X.XX 111.
8pir#ag~ping-Aniusibg incidents-Laughable winding up of the exhibitieni...;82
0 $1  P, 7ER        I.
The double wedding-Strange devplogmen-[stpries explained...       ..... 84
0HA.PT    -ItXXV.
- one--Can't ceuP his -douragi to sak-Finally dae itN.-
~  ~actbedTuts~ta'4am-o.Purae and Mi6 Ieuhap@ell4'niadl.. 8s

I

R E     KTI C K,
SCE NE S I N TEH E S OU T H.
CHAPTER L
fad0s life is as the 4lark qlod itthewsst,
Deep laden, ith the burden ish. breast;
Now muitt'riig cursesin histroubleiW trife,
With all the warringrelements of-life,;
Now flashing bolts of anger on his foes,
As if their s6rrodSs could alleviate l'ie woes.
What lights the gloomaland gently dissiPAes
This murky elou4 of, care, in snowy Bakes:-
What zephyr 'tis that cheers man's brooding heart;
What unseen hands roll quietly apArt I
The rended cloud, whboe scattered, -agged seams,
Reveal the rays qf light in gl4en streams I
His praise is isukhter from the old and young,
Comaeth this 'hCeense tocut rnU7 FUN.
ForLow me reader, in imagination, whilbt I turn the mirrorof my
memory full upoti the scenes of my early childhood in .the then green
wilds of Tennessee; stand thou here.upon  the broad old pu een-
floored porch, upon whose hoary covering rested the tendrils of the-
deep-red1hoheysuckle, and the ,gorgeous intermingled colors of the-
jasmine and climbing rose will give you wherewith to' rest your gaze.
and thoughts whilst the leave-takings going on inside occupy some one
else iCousins and aunts;uncles and brothers, and all the relativda I.
had for-mileg around, were then and there assembled for the purpose
of taking leave of the wild young reprobate whose mischievous; tricks
had often brought on his devoted head the 'condensed fur of them
alL "Good bye, undle-Dan'l, good bye, cousinfJohn; did7i yong
cousin Sue?   Well, neVer mind; twice is better than none, ay how,
Good bye, mammy; good bye, daddy," and I broke fro'n their reneredi
leave-taking wit Adesperate. energy, which 1lafted until"I. strod
aboard the little steamerthen taking ih wood at Or landing When
safe aboard I sat down and the tears rolled ,down my face, chasitig
eath other, somehow or- othieri right into the ,orners-of mysm tlF
whilst the Iloods ofiud advice. rushed aorohs my memory addingteM
after tear to the many already swallowed inImy desperate efforts tb
choke down my feelings and force back my heart (which, 'someow
7/


8

REDSTICK ; ORS

other, had run across into my throat,) to its proper place. I was
just regaling myself with the beautiful prospect of "yaller fevar,"
which uncle Dan'l had taken such infinite pains to draw out and
lengthen before my eyes, and was mind-du'ellhngi upon one of his r
"bowie-knife illus. tin" herdi       , dn g,ent the bell, and
in a few moment i'outittfb stbrn-vrhecer itas  watering down the
stream on its long journey to the sunny South.
In a few moments we were out P sight of the oldhomestead, mid
scene after scene of my boyhood fitted across my mind, as I leaned
against the railing and stretched my neck to obtain one last look at
the olgp! e-oa4 5iW that i  yhoni% fim m tyIn   psy ;urn-
ing from te guard, I waed into the social hal, and, taig a chair,
cocked up my lega and in a few moments was closely engaged in
conversation with a youster of about my own age, who had been
scrutinizing me since I trs'a tep't bbard. In the course of our
conversation, I made the welcome discovery that he was also a disci-
ple of Coke, Littleg O00., ad 1tind oo for th&amp;'and of "yaller
fearr" pretty girls an4big plantations. Tie was from the city of
Ganderville, and, as we*etre the only ythful aesngers aboard,
we were soon all in all t6 e ch other, ie ageed to accompany me
and locate in the samefavored spotof creation upon which I destined
to reflect the lightef My#genius, Gandertville  he said, was already
full of lawyer, and thee was nothing lfd&amp;. them' to do, any how; so,
ocketing the small mm lef him bydiis parents, who were both dead,
e had taken the first boat and heie he waA, ready to join in heart
and hand in y   t him)  ryfeaa4ldfojedte-,
We were so fu of plans     aots rgaring our future prospects
that our time passed quickly and pleasantly away, and one fine May
porhing wewe Iudel bak and baggage, at Lemonskeezer, back of
hiehl cittisoieforty mile lay the iupient cityof Redstiakd in which
weees'ed to locatb autdmake the sotie of our early fate;  we
idteided stopping a week-at Lemonskeezor to look around and inquire
imiothings ixi general, 'we, pgfor, put up on the' wharfiboat4 as
that ioating Astor was 'far supenor kcleanlinese and iceommi)dE-
sine.to the brawling ietl- on shore.
j Mrery soon found out that utyfriend, McDonald,.was an incoiA*
giMe wagiandprophe-ie to niyM   the to inmeonsiderable troubleihid
ptensity for fun would get us into  Our floating hotel belonged t
wo 'partners, one of hom4 a young man by the a*me ,df Kemie at'
titled to1 thu b gnerhlbusiness of the boat, whilst the bthe6   who.
generally wentithe co omen of Old iushhad the ekelusive con*
rol of the  bardtig ind aodging  rtion-of the esinalishment  This
Iettuu oldigeat hn&amp;Mac *ervoon    wenepie; and innanuerabl4
wete the hinbanetion.eethe old f  put'a uto in hi inotrea*C
,of) cleiR, osrver nd 4ipenisot in ,ueral, in partWayment for
. s  neessaitttioks Mae~pl i4fon h    perd 'old ,ersoi  , One
#R  ight'When Old  oshwaismund;azApy     c, ;who by tlhw y
4*Td iatm-ia Yht'heir withaMae*otmai nce-of his fnuuAk'
1anss,:tied the biaof theOpet t    clithto Okd Pushts siirt~sb

0

80C513 IN T* m NOUTI.9
1st'huIg o(tV evyr convntigly, td, as Mad-M'i0, tOo tnptingIy'; for
him to resist the opportunity  and the, ) it out onthe-holler-deal
ga ve three t6iifng s etfts or'e!"" ,  u h  tud f'or thdbor
elling at the top of his voice, and at a pame'considetably accelerited
by the crashing avalanche of dishes slung round the cabin by tho cloth
being suddenly drawn frotn under thelfi. By the tirme he irived on
tie boiler-deck, the sudden glare of the wat'hman's torch, frightened
him so that he lost all presence of mind, and he took aflying leap over
the railings, and would most assuredly have met a watery grav6, if
-the table cloth had not curiously wrapped around a post, and held
'hit swinging in the air.
Old Push, *as relieved from his perilous position, and a diligent
search for the, offender was rewarded by circumstantially convicting
Mic, Who on hig part strongly denied the base insinuation. Ever after
although on speaking terms, he was an- inveterate enemy of Mac's
and our many discomforts would have been sufficient warning to any
othcr than Mac.
One evening, that gentleman and I were taking a stroll along the
brow of the hill, upon which, tle city was situated, peeping at the
pretty girls behind the blinds, *hen we m4t Old Push coming along
full tilt for the wharf-boat.
"Good morning. What's the newsI"l he grufly exclaimed.
" Well, nothing much," answered Mae, "'eept maybe that curious
circumstance thit happened to Kexie (Push's partner) a few min-
utes ago."
Now be it known that Old Pgsh was the possessor of two remarka-
.Ite things for that section of the country  one was a bump of credu-
lity and curiosity .combined, whose' outlines would almost east a
shado ;'the 'other, was a two hundred qnd fifty dollar watch, the
, pride, the boast and envy of Lemionskeezer.
"ell, what was it?" he exclaimed,' impatiently.
Well, you see," rejoined Mae, "as Kexie was standing on the side
gaard, and leaning over to see something down below, his watch
went'kershug,
"JehosaphatI   My two hundred nd fifty dollar watch! Bless
thy" hide and tallow! Did he jumb overboard to get it ? Say,
T "?'ell tue " ahuted Old Pash- nervously grasping Mac by the shirt
"Well,let go and keep cool, and Ill tell you.  Ie didn't umpb
60eboard, but about an hour after, a little nigger cs'ght an almighty
tat fish, and Kexie bought him for a dollar."
"You don't sayso !"
t es I do; dnd Kekle pdeedded to cut him open ?"
lesss ny stard"
#"' And 'he  ild anoblique 'inesion 'in his abdomen," (we wr$
.peing someld eust then).
"A  what  'b  't tAdlk  or drafted Latin o..tell  e abat
tij watch'! Well, he tdt  -tol  in bi atomoh-hd fbibud any
sttuI"


10-                     REDsTOICK; OR,
"No, he dragged the fish to the guard, and proceeded to empty
him, and put his hand in to. clean him out."    .
" And found my watch,!",shouted Old Push, in a perfect frenzy.
" Ie felt something round-"
" My watch ?"
" And the fish gave a squirm and slid right into the river."
" Did he hold on to the watch ?" shouted Old Push, his hair stick-
ing out straight with excitement.
"le held on to a big potato, that was all that"- . Bing, went Old
Push's fist in Mac's face, and a pretty little fracas took place; but imme-
diately they were parted by the large crowd of blacklegs and little
boys, who gathered in a moment from all quarters. Mae had a con-
densed map of the State of Louisiana, alongside of his proboscis,
which he explained to his inquiring friends, by telling them he took
cold and it settled in his eye.
CHAPTER II.
How like some gorgeous dream the clouds arise,
Revealing all the glories of the skies~,
Whilst 'neath the rose-couch of the 'Gbd of day
And resting on tfh green sward beauteous Iry-
The haven of their hopes, enraptured band;
Before them was their promised land.
"How far are we from Redstick?" for the fiftieth time, inquired
Mae of our French stage-driver.'
"Jis one turn around ovare morare monsieur, answered that indi-1
vidual, as he touched up the off horse and wheeled around the fence
corner of a plantation, revealing to our expectant gaze the glories
of Redstick.
Our course for the last ten or twelve miles, had been over a level
country which, gradually rising, here abruptly terminated in a lofty
bluff, overlooking a verdant prairie bottom, extending for miles until
broken by the wooded spurs of a low range of what are called hills-
in the South, but what are more appropriately 'termed banks or knolls
in the West. The whole prairie from hill to hill was studded with
plantations, whose broad green fields of cane and cotton, were here
and there broken by little clumps of white cabins, whose close conti'-
guity to the stately mansion of the planter proclaimed them to be
the residence of the negroes..
.Redstick, was situated near midway from hill'to hill,and was of that
description of villages common to the South. It was composed of one
ong street, lined on either side with the many-colored houses of the
inhabitants; most of which were embowered amid groves of china
trees, whose delightful perfume fairly scented the atmosphere.
a fw moments we were ratt in   along the long street, and
driving up to the porch of the only hotel of the place, we alighted,

I

SCENES IN TILE SQUTI!.

,11

and the stage rattled down to the livery stable to exchange horses.
Before we could arrange ou . baggage, we were saluted on all sides
with questions from a large crowd of planters and denizens of the
place; the burthen of whose cry was: "Whose elected ': "Who
carried Pumpkin Hollow ?" etc.
I knew nothing of there being an election at: any place where we
had stopped, nor neither did Mac; but 'that gentleman, as usual,
looked as if he kneW all about it, and a knowing looking old gent
took him prisoner and was confidently, informed that Crooks had car-
ried Pumpkin Hollow by two huiidred' zm.jority. Now, Mac, was
totally ignorant of the number of voters in Pumpkin Hollow, but
picking up the name of Crooks from remarks. made by the crowd,.he
had let fly at random, and hit his mark, for the "knowing one" imme-
diately closed a bet of a hundred dollars, with a half drunk' individual,
who seemed extremely desirous of getting rid of his money. 1%
didn't care a cuss how he bet, he said, and anyway "to.please the chil.
dren,". Some one else asked Mad about the result, and havitig received
the same reply, the yelling, cheering and hooting were. tremendous.
The gent who before didn't care a cuss, was now extremely desirous.for
a fight, and meeting with another gentleman' in the same; beautiful
humor, -at it they Went. In the meantime, Mae had become ex-
tremdly popular, and the Crookites raised, him off  the ground and
carried him around the hotel, until the "knowing one" proposed, A
treat all-round upon 'the strength of the hundred he' had won from
the poor devil then lying fiat upon his back out in the street. You'd
better be of the opinion that' Redstick is no 'place -to propose treat
with the expectation of no one taking you up; and no sooner oaid
than done, the bar-room was filled to overflowing, and the triumph of
the Crookites waxed greater and greater from the fuel it fed upon.
Mac was called 'upon to give a speech, but not knowing with which
of the two great parties the Crookites assimilated, he sang-the Star
Spangled Banner, or rather attempted 'to sing it, for a glass of old
rye going down, and "Star Spangled" coming up, his throat at the
same time, got. tangled together and, liked to have, choked.him. HO
was interrupted, however, in his vainh efforts to disentangle Banner
from Spangled by a loud cheer away down the street. In a moment
the bar-room vomited forth its contents and, the Crookites stood in
breathless astonishment, gazing at their opponents who came up street
shouting and yelling most vociferously. It appeared that the "stage
driver," who alone knew how things had gone at the doubtful pre-
oinct, had just given the lie to Mr. Mac's coek-and-bull, story, by' in-
forming some of Mr. Shank's (Mr. Crooks' opponent) friends of the
election'of that gentleman; by a large majority. ! In a few moments
the. two crowds intermingled,- and the cheers, yells and hisses
were deafening; the "knowing gent'"singled Mac out and sought
an explanation, and that gentleman having tangled up his excuses
the "knowing one," Alexander lik,undertook to solve the Gordiaip
Knot, with a blow in a; great deal less time' than ittakes to-sepaitate
two cowards-the whole crowd Were ii1one grand uproarious free


RITEnSTK ; OR,
fight. Here were half a dozen pitching into noboy in. gin'ral and
t'tirybody in; particular, and there were two or three having it-out in
some corner by themselves. Ma6b'as hard set, for all the. Crookites
were pitching into hin', but with the assistance of the landlord I got
hin from amidst the crowd and carried him up stairs; and so, ended
our introduotion to the city and citizens of Redstiek.
OI11A P't' ER     IIl .         .   ,
#Hope long deferred maketh the heart sick,
But brass i. equal to a thousand of brick.
ANCIENT POEM.
Tim s is nothing more true thun the above "elegant extrack."
Mac's #in was soon forgiven and apart from his tricks he became a
generd favorite. We were, not in want of friends but clients were
soarce, and it was soon demonstrated to our unbelieving ears and eyes
beyond the possibility of a doubt, that howevet ready. people- are to
drink when you, pky treat, they are very carry about trusting their
Interests to the care of comparative strangers,
Our only resource was to bide our tine, and pationtly wait until
our #k fof %neswa  wore of, and as We were tolerably flush, we
hoped to manage to get ,alongintil uh time when cases and clients
would come upon us in flocks. Boarding is toleAbly' cheap in Red-
stick, but unfortunately for us at that time, pork was *the cheapest,
and in fact nearly the only article in the market. Our landlord had
been led into.ant unfortunate speculation, and ovei' an -hundred head
4f porkers penned up in the back yard represented a heap more cash
than ever he got for them. Hog meat was down, and our landlord,
to get rid of them, fed them to us morning, noon and night; broiled
fried, stowed, roasted and every culinary mode ever invented, was
put in requisition to enable' him to get rid of the squealers that made
night hideous with their love-songs and war-squeals in the back yard.
The boarders at length revoltdltat the pork-doings, and Mae being
the chosen medium 'through whom we wished to communicate the
extent of our wrongs, made * long and impressive address to the
astonished, open-eyed landlord, U he At at the head of the table:
"Since the days of Nero, never," said Mae, "has this tyranny
been equaled."  ("Never, never," chorused the balance of us.)
"My dear sir, (to the landlord), "you are a than, a humane mant,
aWd *hen I tell you sir, that this hog for breakfast, hog'for dinner,
hog for supper% and, by jimini, hog all nigh; i producing its effects
on my framo, and' I feel half  swine already, I know you will abolish
this routine, and gito is something else to eat. I tell you, sir, it must
bb, done," continued the 6rator, bringing his fists' down with a thump
ihM  made the plates clhtter, "for if it is' not-stopped, by the holy
owers,' when I leav4 oedtieky, ll1 leave a sqiwal.g."
-- is needles to say'that this speech had' it'effeat1 and the hobs
esae arobedW*ff ne~t daytowart Leinowkeeiet.

5C1 NZt I ?IU SOUVT h.

is

C-APTER IV*
"Wlom the Gods would destroy they Arst nake mad."
CLIENTS still forebore troubling our youthful nmindo with the earos
of their cases', and Mac, getting discQtented, esc5lved to turA h*
hand at something else. Disregarding all my entreatie, he entered
into co-.partnership with the only livory-stable in the place.  Old
Uncle Joe Field was doing a thriving business, and save in one respect
had no earthly need 'of a partner; bus if there was anything he loyed
better' than horse-trading, it was compsionship- and as his stable
was not so often frequented by men of leisure as Mwjor  td's, hotel,
Uncle Joe spent most of his time, to the neglect of hia business, 'up
there,.aeated in a large shucked-bottota -chair, talking, laughing ad
trading with every one who passed by. No*, as Uncle Joe had often
missed great bargains by being sway from home, after mature dlib-
oration, he came ,to the conclusion that he must take a partner, and
as Mao very opportunely accosted him In the sabilet, they hitched
horses and a trade was made on the apets Thetrangemerite Wert
all made, an inventoryItaken, and after a few day* Mao fell. into the
isual routine of stable business, and took upon ,himaelf the full man-
agement of the concern, leaving' Uncle Joe at leisure to pursue his
conversational bent.at his friend the Major's.
t A few days before Uncle Joe entered -into. partnership with Mao,
he had shipped off to a friend in the country for disposal, a very fine
looking and apparently well-formned bay horse, one of the few me-
mento4 of his once having been taken in and done for. With the
korse he sent a short message to this effect: "Git rid of the uWis'rable
cuss as poon as you oia and don't never let me set eyes on him agin.'t
So worthless did Uncle Joe consider this horse, that he did not "put
him down" in the inventory; in fact he was such a bugbear to Undle
Joe that he tried never-to think of bim, as it vividly reminded hinm of
the fact that his pocket-book was minus in the asom of two hundred
dollars sinee hiastrade for that.horse.
For rascality and all the ills horseflesh is heir to, Old Baywas sun
equaled, and to mske matters ,warse, nearly, eerrybody khet his
failings; however, as he was a showy horse,'with a little patching up,
Uncle Joe hoped to palm him off onto someI eoatry greenhorn;gpad
an old companion in horse-trading was selected to dispose of the
beauty, as Uncle Joe facetiously called him. ~.  -       . -
A' few daya pasted very pleasantly .aAd  aele Joe, was so well
pleased with Mac's- talent, as a judge of horseflesh, that he did not
hesitate to -agree that Maw.should swap .ofrOld 'Roan. (a very service-
able,, bat akitiquated looking horse), the first.chance hel got.
One day, as: was his wont,, Uncle Joe sauntered ep to his friea
the Major's, and as there was nobody.abmut-.bub the Major, Uncle.Jou
a~d he were-soon enga   i a long business ontersation.
,;' tell you, Majert  said Unale Joe,,emphasizing ,his wor 64

I

C

i


14

REDSTICK ; OR,

bringing his broad palm down on that individual's shoulder with a force
that brought tears into the eyes of his friend; "I tell you old fell, that
suck in of mine when I-bduht ihat internal ?eauty, is the sorest thing
I ever 'sperienped.". These words were hardly uttered,when Uncle
Joe happened to turn his head up the street, espied' Old Bay coming
down, with 'a long-legged specimen of the genus hImo, commonly
eilledtGreenhorn, on his back. Uncle Joe's fade brightened up as in
an excited whisper he called to the Major:
"See yander! great Omsar !-but don't say a word," at the same
time, in his excitement, he caught his friend by the napezof the-neck,
and forced his head out likki altartlo's from the shell.
"Did yotever! youre 'rid on him now," quoth the Major, as Old
Bay with his drivei' drew up in front ofthe porch.,'
"Stranger," said Uncle' Joe, (in a voice in which a desire to shout,
laugh and yell, struggled for the mastery), "fine hoss you're'on! "
"Why, ya'as," drawled- Greeny,1 "-tarnation fine to 'look at, but
ormity coarse to ride".-..aint worth shucks."
"Whar did.you git him?  What did you give?" asked Uncle Joe.
"Wall; I got him out her# in the country a piece,'-and I gin &amp; cool
hundred for him,1 replied Greeny.   C
"Let me gin you a piece of advice," said Uncle Joe; "when a
man takes me 'in, I allers 'takes somebody else in. I know that hoss;
everybodyknows ,him; andiif youi want to take my advice jes you
get some where whar he .neverivar seed, and then let that, ar crittet
slidW, and then git out on the way for fear -he mout hurt some body
before ho stops sliding."
The green one drew up his-reins, and after ejecting about a quart
of bilious-looking tobacco-juice, hegave a sickly smile, and sloped.
"I like to see a fool," quoth Uncle Joe; "but Il be skinned if it
don't make me sick to look at such a cussed' geese as that-.-pitch in
Lemons aid git ar skeezed.' Whoop! Cohe :Major, come -in, let's
take a drink-hurra for pork and beans!"  .,
With these exclamations on his lips we will leave Uncle Joe and the
Major in the hand# of the barkeeper, whilst we follow Greeny, who,
as he slowly rode along, chewed the cud of 'bitter fancy along with
six ounces of Old Virginny.
" Hello, stranger,,whar are.you bound?" shouted some one from
the door of the liverytstable.
-  Wall,.no whar in. pertick'lar."
"How d'ye come on?"
"Well, tolerable."
"Won't you lite and look at your saddle-fine hoss your on; what
d'ye ask for him?"
"Finest hoss I ever heed,! out travel1all creation, and I dunno how
I could spare'him; but ef I could git my price for him I moat sell
him,'? replied Greeny. Saying ithich, he dismounted, hitched Bay
to the rack, and at it they went.
Bay's teeth were examined, anl as they. were of 'the hollow variety,
144y stood the examidation very -well; Ithe trpenine used in the

SCENES IN THE Sou'i. lh
first trade still made a tingling sensation in his tender hoofs, causing
him to prance like a colt; -Arabian Liniment had glossed .off the
splints on his legs; and a beautiful wheeze was excused on account
of the compression necessary in looking at his teeth.
"What'll you take?"
"What'll you give?" were passed' several times, until at length
Mac made him an offer.
" I'll tell youwhat stranger, there's a roan, as good a horse as ever
wore hide or hair; I'll give you himland fifty dollars to boot."
"Whew! good morning," exclaimed the stranger.
Hello, dor't jump the -game ; tell me what you'll take."
"Well, lookee here, to cut the matter short, jes gin me $150 to
boot, en ef you aint to gwine to do it jes say so, and let I slide."
After haggling 'an hour-or so the thing was done. Bay took his
old stall in the stable, and Roan left with as rejoicing a rider as ever
bestrode a horse. Mac chuckled to himself, " Joe even couldn't do it
better; he told me to work off Old Roan onto somebody, and I'll be
hanged ef somebody aint skeezed. Aint lie a beauty I just look at
them  eyes; three years old, 'legs like a racer, head like a deer;
jementally, won't Joe out a figure three when he comes around!" were
Mac's admiring remarks.
All this time Uncle Joe'was busy trading with the Major, and had
succeeded in hogging him by saddling Old Roan on to him at an
awful advance on first cost. He was i a grand good humor with
himself in particular, and all mankind in general.
"But who is that riding Old Roan?" he involuntarily asked as
Greeny turned the corner, Uncle Joe's self-sufficient smile turning to
a black frown as he came up to the porch.
"Whar did you git that thar hoss, stranger?" Uncle Joe im-
patiently asked.
"Oh, jes tuk your advice and let Ole Bay slide. Hold that man,
stranger," exclaimed Greeny, as he put spurs to Old Roan in order
to avoid something more than mere jeatures, as Uncle Joe's liar,
eyebrows and fists riz at one and the same time; "t Good-bye, ole un,
don't fegit to mention me in your devotions;and remember, never
spar advice to a greenhorn," lie shouted, as he clattered up the street.
I was just passing-the hotel on my way to the stable as Uncle Joe
put out for the same place. Could see he was awful savage, but as
yet I knew nothing of the! cause; e passpd me like a whirlwind, and
went a toddling down the street, stamping his feet at every step, and
wickedly kicked over a little nigger, for smiling alotid'at the wonderful
agility Uncle Joe displayed.
I followed on, and when close to the stable, took a seat on a high
stool in front of a little grocery, and watched operations. Jim was
regarding his acquisition with looks of admiration, whether at the
horse's beauty or his own cuteness, it was hard to tell. Joe arrived,
his face puckered up in the most sublime attempt to control his
'phelinks " I ever -beheld.
'" What in the namo ef thunder have you been and done, Mac?".

I-

A

1,


RIEDSrICK; ou,
"Done!. why, look'ee here-look!"
"Fire agin, if that don't beat blazes, I never swear; but by the
great gods of South Carolina, if I sleep any to-night, I'll dream
cussesl" said Uncle Joe,
"Look at them legs," chimed in Mac.
"Legs be swiveled, I fixed them up myself," roared Uncle Joe.
"What a head and neck."
Thunder onyour neek and bead; his eyes got more hooks in 'em
than would catch oll the fish in the Mamasip,
"Well, Uncle Joe,"
"Don't tAlk to me about him, what bot did the ouss gin you9 that's
some consolation anyhow."
"Boot! why, I gave- him boot."
"Moses in th hebullrushes! Qh! Great Tulius Ossar! I'll bet after
losing fifty dollars in. the trade, you've gone and went and gave five
dollars to boot for that humbug."
Now, Uncle Joe,it is time to stoplthis foolishness; you know well
the Bay is worth 6200 more than Old Roan, and I only gave $150 to
oMillion thunders! " yelled Uncle Joe, 4s in his excitement he feil
headlong in the saw-dust, where he rolled, and pitched, and shook,
and cursed, until Mac was afraid the rafters would fpll in, Toward
the cool of the day he let down a little, and Mac was pushed out of
that partnership in very little more time than it tskea me to tell it.
Well, he took his old office again; and applied himself to his boks.
very assiduously; but it seemed as if Old Joe's tongue had a blasting
effect on our reputations.
With the exception of a large number of aequaiutanees, we had
gained nothing since our advent in Ite4s1k, and er highly-colored
visions were beginning to fade away in the dim distance of the past.
Mac was wishing to pitch into everything in the shape of speculation
that flitted past his chimeratic brain; but by the means of desperate
argument I withheld him from involving his few dollars in schemes
far more desperate, and, as I then arristacracally thought, lower in
the standard than the hiverystable oseapade,
CHAPTER V.
Hist the gai s started; see thelop-eared bound I
But now a drosy yelping cur
Pricks up his ears. 'is gaunt-like form dilates
And nostrils snuffing ever1passing-reeze,
N.imte the game is near, Aiark 1 -r Hark awsyl1-
Ke'o up!hip* one 00!M  - and pow - he's ours!
'T'E LAWYER'S NEAM.
WE were all seated at table One evening, when the stage arrived,
and several travelers were added to our colupany;,among them was
a young gent, who, immediately upon his arrive, gave us to under-

Ii

a
1
f
.r
4t
1
.y
-r
s11
i
rj
'tl
s
R
,z
i
{{L
Y4q1
TyCCFC
-xYq
-3
i
,
s
cy
. y
"     ^'"}
i
f
P

17

stand, in a manner half sneering,.half contemptuous, that hisname was,
P. Green Smith, lM.D., and that it was his- determination, if. the
society of the village was any way passable, and the, practice not cut
up, and ruined by. cold-water doctors, etc., to stop and locate. Hist
manners were insuf#able,,and, to Mac particularly so; it took but at
ew moments for th  to get to sparring, andas Mad had. the laugh:
on his side, the little fop-was in a sweet pickle whilst supper lasted
After tea, whilst all of us (but-Mac,,who had retired to his room for a
fow moments), were sitting on the back gallery, an opetr carryall
drove up, an dthe latest specimen of human absurdity'min-the shape of
a gaunt, bewhiskered, mustached fop, di-essed in the latest extreme,
alighted, and ordering the driver, to drive aroundto the-stable, seated
himself in a vacant chair, alongside of, a young lady, who, was
stopping at the hotel until sent for from the country,. and commenced
paying her desperate attention As Mae was coming 'dowh the stairs
to. join us, Whiskerando got up to order his, servant to be ready to
start at four o'clock next morning, upon the pain of having both ears
cut off-and Mac having -a little penchant for the young lady himself,
took the next chair but one fromi her, and leaning over, unmindful of
the rest of us, commenced a- decidedly interesting conversation With
her all about moon-beams, etc. Whiske-ando, having finished his
orders to his servant, returned, and with- the geatest coolness in the
world, popped his carcass down in, the vacant:ehair between Mae and
the young lady.hThe surprise of Mae prevented his saying anything
until such time had elapsed as to prevent anything more being done.
in the premises. The rest of the evening-was. spent by us all, with
the exception of Whiskers, in a stateof mauvaise lhonte. As for Mac.
he was foaming with suppressed rage, and when we 'had retired to our
room, it.ewas as mu',h as I could do to prevent, him from. going
to Whisker's room, and pulling him out of bd,! and'then-and Ithere
inflict personal chastisement on him for his display of impudence.
However, he suddenly cooled 'down, and I wentto sleep. Next
morning early, I went down to the barrroom' and the. first thing' met
niy eyeswas a flaming placard; surrounded by about ten or twelVe.
Redstvickians;. in, a high, state of exeitemeit; edging My way, thibugh
the crowd, I read the followinglin the, biggest white typo on. the
reddest back-ground, ever made use of in a printing office:
$,5 0'0 R EWA R D !!!               .
Bank defaulter, etc. And then 'followed; a full description of the'
Swartwouter, which tallied exactly with. the gent who had theaudacity!
tQ cut Mae out the evening-before. Before'I 'gothrough; a,rush. and.
clatter of horses coning up-Jthe. street drew'myattention to 'what wasi
going on out of doors. Some twentyfellowswere on.horseback, 4and
as many more on foot, running half wild every which avay, hunting:
horses to go in pursuit. ofr the, def lter.; Thoso 'that were mounted
were each strivin to get aeat, thi desirabe pitonbeingoeenpie /
bySmith, the doctor who, -mountod. on, % gauxa old -bay, wws~fg
his place more by dexterity, than,from anysuprirityhi'  i
2

I)

SCENES IN THE SOUTH.


18'                     REDSTICK; OR,
possessed over the steeds of the others. Bob White, the blacksmith,
was on an old mule, and when just opposite the hotel,'annoyvd by the
doctor's attempt to head hin by running his nag across the face, of the,
mule, he rammed a' pair of -spurs, almost as big as dinner plates, into
the mule's side; and rushed him right'aganst-the doctor; in moment ,
horse, mule, blacksmith and doctor, were all rolling in the dust
together. The mule and doctor were the first up, and after feeling
Bob's pulse, the doctor -m6unted the mule and away he went after the
hrong. Such another excitement was never heard tell of in Redstick
since the day Fritz run away with Old Blaze's' daughter. All the
women in the place were out, and the children clnab on the top of
the houses, to watch the progress of the pursuers,' which was marked
by a cloud of dust. Smith, on his mule, was left far behind at' first,
but bottom counted in that race, and' he was again ahead when they.
came in sight of the runaway's carryall. At this juncture of the race'
all hands were going down a long gradual decent, and the race was
terrific; cow-hides, spurs, switches, yells and curses were liberally
made use of in order to accelerate the speed of the horses. Smith
was still ahead, but Uncle Joe, who was mounted on a little grey'
Cicole pony, was pushing him close. Some of the riders were' on
their horses necks, with their arms clasped around, holding on like a
" duck' on a june-bug."  One enterprising gent went flyig over into
a Cherokee hedge, and it took two hours-'to extricate him, on the"
return of the party. A cow that was lying down in the road unfortu-
nately attempted to rise just at the moment Tonnerre, the barber, and '
an overseer, who were "nip and tuck," attempted to jump over her.
It is needless to say they went on an exploring expedition, through
the air.
In the meantime, the object of all this pursuit stuck fast in a slough
at the bottom of the hill, and was cursing his driver like fury for being
the cause of the accident. The pursuers, thinking 'that he was going
to jump out and run, came down on him with .a perfect rush; Smith
seized him first, but was immediately floored, or rather mudded, that'
being the prevailing foundation in tiat neighborhood. Old Uncle
Joeidistrusting his physical powers, made a rush at him with his
poniy,1 and the three went down together. The 'rest coming 'up,
Whiskers was tied hand and foot,; and after a chase after the nigger
who disappeared through the woods hike a deer, and a short resting
-spell, the cavalcade set out on their return. Their arrival in town
was announced by a 'series of cheers from all the chidllren and
little niggers in town; such another appearance as they presented
'would have'thrown IPalstaff and his army in the shade. First came .
ithe doctor on the niule, his hair scattered and full of mud, his hat
gone, his doat split down the back, and two large contusions marked
where he had com    in contact--first, with the pummel of the
male's saddle, when Bob White rntneovr him, and afterward with
Whiskerando's fist, at' :the inonient' of victory. The rest of the
.evaleadi was 'in as bad a plight ;' and the appearance of Whiskers,
ted like ahog,' and laid behind the foot-board, cursing and roaring'

SCENES IN THE SOUTH.               19

x
5t
s
t
.l
i
Y
3
is
r
r
b
.4

VI.
The cold air was bracing ;the frost on the ground
Made the light foot tread slightly and raise with a bound.
The woods were all covered with icicles bright
Bathing their risms in the ruddy sunright,
And we shouldered our shot-guns, all ready to huht,
The winds of Decembr-to the hunt I-to the hunt I
IN the thickly-settled portions of Louisiana, where larger game is
scarce, rabbit hunting, in view of the many accompaniments of dogs
negroes, horns, horses, etc., to the sport, is elevated, to a degree, as
far as fun and excitement are concerned, on 'a level with fox hunting
in Virginia, or deer stalking in the West.  Mac and I had'joined mia
the hunt several times, and he was so wound up in the exciteent
that he almost totally neglected his studies, and spent the" mat of
time in the back'yard.of his office, watching the growth and sort
three rabbit pups, for which he had been fool enough to ie twan.
five dollars-a-piece.  To hear him talk,.you'd believe those mongrel,

'
S
l

like a bull, drew tears of laughter from the assembled.crowd.' We all
bent our steps to the old French magistrate's office and Whiskers
soliciting my services, Mac was put forward to exhaust his legal
-knowledge in the attempt to have him committed.
The poster which was the cause of all this tumult, had by. this time
disappeared, no one could tell how or where, and Whiskers having
time to get several planters, who knew him, to testify to his character
and it being proven that he had just arrived to take possession of a
plantation some twenty miles beyond Redstick, he was'honorably dis,
charged, much to the disappointment of nearly everybody, who wanted
him committed to jail nolens volens. The suits which grew out of
this escapade were almost numberless. Whiskers sued all who ia
participated in the chase. Bob White sued the Doctor for damaIs
to his mule and to his person. Uncle Joe sued four or five who. 'ad'
taken his horses without his consent, and broke them down. The
planter whose :co* had been killed, sued Tonnerre, and the overseer.
and Tonnerre sued the planter for allowing his cow to be in the, road'"
and to crown all, Mac and I were engaged in.every case, sometimes '
was prosecutor's attorney, and he for, the defense, and then in the
next case it would be reversed. Business cane all in a heap, and the
speeches made at that session of court are the wonderment of the
Redstickians to this day. it is needless for me to inform you, gentle
reader, that the poster came out of Mac's trunk, of which it had
formed part of the lining for many a year. By a few alterations,'
cutting out the date and pasting the crevice with red paper, etc., he
had gulled the Redatickers completely. His motive was revenge on
Whiskers, for cutting him out, but as it turned out' profitably for us,
he held his.tongue, and our villagers still think a great bank defaulter
passed through Redstick about that time.

F f
(
,
{  ,t}
7


11,EDTWK;j OR,
&amp;Dotted, long-eared, iunds were worth alli the dogs in the country*
after he ha4 pghasel, thOrn, ,  wer invited to partici.'
ptein  gra drahithunt, thawas to take place at olh Bomrang's
dace, about welvp mes from edstick. MAa coul4talk of nothing
but this hunt, from the tupe we first heard. of it until we found
nurses op tne, Qolonel's broad. porch enjoying the heartyy grips of
snehirty'yung Creoles, then and there assembledto participate in
tii hunt.
t Wa, a. clear, cold, bracing Decerber morning, and the. parlor
eing ul of girs, 1ao, was soon among them, making desperate
empt  Ytalbag French, whilst the rpsy of usmade the necessary
preparations for the inroad among the rabbits. In a few moments
e0onel s, horn had sounded thie stgrt4g nptes, and more dogs
theed together in a moment than youqould(shake a stick at. The
mIwling and ye lg were terrific, until the Rolonol gave them in charge
in old negro whperAip, who started with, them about half an haur.
Wore t e party left the, premises. Mac, however,.kept his twenty.
fIvs dollar ppp within, agamst the remonstrances of the old hunters-
lio tdhii they would uptirip ,js and run, a splendid chance of get"w
tIng shot.  Never mind, I'll take care of thst,"quoth Mac, and off,
to ded for the old'fields, disatnt abput four miles.
After a. risk walk, we arrived i the first.old field and: the sport
1egan. The, ield was studded with clumps - of blackberry bushes,
e neanot, lacthania ma' n  hat, and 9thers.towerig up as- high as,
ogr head     a~c'dogs were aconstant sp tree of botheration to us,
a4l the comnpanly werepch scatter  in opnsequence.of-their frequent
r ing between ou; legs. Whilst, we. wpr. all watching the' main
pack whh ws 'skirting the field,.tail up,ap.no e.down, Mae's dogs
st ied a little rabbit directly uikder his, feet, MXac gaye a shrill yell
and let fly both barrels in the air, whilst the whole crowd simultane'
ously let fly at the rabbit; when the smoke cleared away, a few
feathery clumps of rabbit fur floating in the air, were all that remained
of cotton-tail, whilst two of Mac's twynty-five dollar pups were kicking
their last, and the other was kiting off at a tremendous pace, on three
logs, howling and yelping as.if the day of judgrment was at hand.
Mac himself,'was minus a coat.tail, and was cussing i French and
English at an awful rate. Dipregarding our regret and apologies,
he gave one of hii defunctdogs a parting kick, whistled to the other,
and remarking. "that if he couldn't hunt with gentlemen he wouldn't
at al, he put off to huntin a ueighborng field.byhimsel.
.bon't go tiere Mac, the Cqlonel's sRra a, N 141 is kept in that,
"":Qo to $ryas,  ou, set of cpises," replied that worthy individual
ao he  ouchel hs het',and pg off fQr the fence which, separated*
o I soryyogd4idat, tske ny advice," reappndeda young
,ooonacqurito        fragra   breAh, generaiy went by the
a 0prce dedqdogg4yoph         w       vyand we. soon had, business

SCEMS 1* TIM SOUTH.
enough of our own to attend tb. .Rabbit after ' bbit. was started
and slain, and the 'harp crack of Mac's doubleibarel, ever add
andn, dented that that individual *ars dif 6'gd biniress on his
own account. We had plentybf 'sport, an  leaving the paytrof tWe
field we had been hu'ntintg in, he went oVer to the other end, and
ombenced poking the bushes to start out 'cotton-tails. But alas! for
Maco, there was othei 'g'ine behind the bushes than that 'he was
seeking. Going utp to a large cuiftpi he had no sooner thrust in his
barrel, than up 'started 'the 'Colonel' BrAinur; with inane erect arid
flanks contracted, he was a yerf'ect modell of fury, andl Mac would
have soon been iimpaled upon his glistening stel-like horns, if th'e
bushes hadl not intervened. Turnin  off'in a gallo ',the flrahma w'eit
tearing around the long line of buses to get a ac, but you ett'h
believe that worthy did not wait for him; the mainer in which he
'used his legs wotld have been creditable to Lecorpte.; he steered for
a low thorn tree situated about the middle of the field, which was the
nearest shelter for him.; his he approached netrer to it, he perceived
that it wa§'s urrounded by a low cordon of thoi-a bushes, but a glanch
behind him, showed very conclusively hat it Was 'no time to swa$
hordes, so pitching ito the bushes, 6 clumb the thorn 'tee without
'the 'proffered assistanCe of the Brahma' horns, which were kind
offered him, and a glance at the pi-'spects before him was by no
tneans satisfactory. There stopd the 'rahma pawing the ground, and
muttering low bellowings, whidh were the more frightful from their
being different from any bull bellowing he had ever heard.
The frghtful accounts he 'had hear of Brahma bulls' ferocity in
general, and this one's superiority in this respect, in no manner tended
to calh his feats in regard to his ultimate safety. Too round tO
halloo 'for assistance from us, until we were too fair off to near the
repeated yellings which followed his cooler ana  alm after-thought,
and there being no chance 'of any one passing, by whom he, could
send for assistance, his' siege bid far to rival Sebastopol. All da h'e
clung on to the thorn tree, every now and then shifting his position,
andpulling out the innumerable thotnk which stuck in his hide. 'At
length he got so mad that ha tesoived to load up and kill the "inferi-
nal critter."  Slowly loading his Au'i, he let off his pent-up wrai'h in
every imaginable style of cursing:
"You inafernal Asiacticyou!  You chase a free-born Ameri6an
citizen !  You red-eyed blazing devil!  It wouldn't take inueh to
maake me come down, catch you by your short tail, and wear you ott
on the ground; you blamed new-fangled, Asiatic, hump-shouldered
invention."
I tust, however, as proof of my friend's prudence, say that he did
not begin to come down and put his threats into execution; and ft.
thermore, when he had loaded up his gun, the idea struck hiin th"t
perhaje he had heard merftidn that thAt thar bull'e cost, and ra v -
.'ng expbuses, exceeded by 'fari the utlinest aiount ho expet'ed
mak ithe next te years.
Therefore, thie ideo'  ho 'th  hm*4  a&amp;sIdejoi'the id~h

I

t
a_
,


f ,
{
"z      ,
x
r        s
r      4
s
1
q      +
5
t- f
;
1 ;
t 4
t
1
-E

122                     REDSTICK ; OR,
rand he betook himself to yelling for help like a good fellow; and the
Bralima linking that he wished for company, sent him his remain.
fpg twent-five dollar pup from the point of his horns, right into the
middle of the thorn,- over his head, and there he stuck until Mae
poked'him loose with the muzzle of his gun. Following up this coup-
d Aiien, the Brahma made a series of desperate attempts to get at
'Mae ut happily the cdeveaux de frise of thorns was too much for
his sh  gy hide, and he withdrew to a short distance and remained
S there steadfastly eycing Mac,.until the latter got so enraged, he with
difficulty withheld himself from the temptation of blowing his red
eyes out. It was now near sunset and we set out for home, and as we
passed Mac's 6ld field, we were too busily engaged in singing " We'll
be there in a few days," to hear his desperate shouts. Enraged
beyond measure at our'indifference to his peril, he took advantage of
Brahma's getting. fastened in the briars, pAnd dropping out of the,
:thorn, he put for the fence like a hot-pressed deer. The Brahma dis-
fengaged himself inotime to arrive at the fence and give him a flying
lift, that sent him flying twenty feet over the fence into the soft mud
on the other side. Picking himself up he took a cool bath in the first
,ond he came to, and came to the house almost froze, but as calm and
unconcerned as if nothing had taken place.  To all our repeated
question8 as to where his game dog and gun were, he made some eva-
sive answer, and soon retired to bed, leaving us to make a night of it.
Any one who has been at a ,planter's house where there was company'
assembled, can imagine the time we had: dancing, singing, courting
and cutting up in general was the order of the night; and about
twelve we formed in procession and with the fiddlers in front, paid
Mac a visit in his room; he received us cooly-that is, sent two boot-
acks and a pitcher at our heads, and then we retired to rest.
The, next morning, we were up early, and as the hunt was to be in
a chain otffields some eight miles off, the discovery that our horses'
had all been turned out during the night, aggravated and delayed us
a good deal, and as they could not be found, we were forced to put
wupwith a one-mule wagon which by tight squeezing held nearly all of
us, the others, four in number, walked and took turn about in riding
with us, they getting in when tired and four others getting out., Mac
rode and drove the mule, and in this manner we proceeded, singing
and shouting, as gay a set as ever set out on a rabbit hunt.
When we came to the fieldin which the Brahma was pastured, and
thrQugh which we had to pass in order to get Mac's dog and gun, the
supplementary four crowded into the wagon and Mac, after an un-
considerable delay. in letting down the bars, and repairing some part
of the harness which had given way, mounted on the mule and in we
put. The bars were securely put up, and in'a few moments we were
,within a short distance of Mac's Sebastopolic besiegement, when the
'rahma made his appearance, head and tail uJ his sharp horns
glistened in the morning sun; he was indeed, a terrible-looking object,
and the way we crowded ,together in the wagon, demonstrated that
we did not consider ourselves altogether safe in our present position.

SCENES IN THE SOUTH.

:23

Whilst our attention was directed to the furious approach of the
Brahma and to squeezing ourselves closer together in the wagon,
Mac suddenly let loose the back and breastchains, and the first thing
we knew the shafts came down k'eersluinp on the ground,,and in
another itioment Mac was tearing for the gate of .the field on the
mule. The Brahma paid.no attention to us but kept on after Mac and
pushed him closer than he any way desired. In -the meantime, we
had left the wagon and scattered in every direction, but-the sudden
return of the bull made those who could take instantaneous refuge in
and under the cart. Ten or twelve could not get back, and they
were forced to take refuge in Mac's late fortress, the thorn and its
surrounding cordon of bushes. Onions, after. hesitating which place
to run decided to take the cart, but his decision came nearly too
late, the Brahma caught him when about four feet from the cart and
pitched him headforemost among us, retaining however the seat of his
breeches as a flag wherewith to denote his victory. We were about
-twenty yards from the gents in the thorn tree, and the bull soon
left us to pay his attentions to them. Although in a poor situation our-
selves we laughed until the tears rolled down our cheeks at the fright-
ful struggles of the thorn-tree gentry, in their desperate efforts to get
one above another. As one would grasp a bunch of thorns, a loud
yell of pain vould burst from him, and then as another would settle
himself in a crotch studded with them, big, little, sharp and sharper,
(there were none of them blunt), a tremendous volley of acres and
oaths, would furnish fresh food for our laughter.
As the Brahma trotted round on to the other side of the besieged,
we in the cart made e desperate sally, but it was short, sweet and de6
cisive; the bull ccnmilig at us "with a perfect rush," we scrambled
in and under the cart, and blessed our stars we all' got under cover.
Trotting around us several times, he returned to his first love, the
thorn-tree gentry, and we were concocting schemes to get out of our
dilemma; but lo! a new enemy made his appearance. Our friends un-
der' the cart shouted out, "Hornets! hornets!" and clambering up the
sides, the black stream of little demons which 'followed them,;showed
us that there was something as bad as Brahma bulls in this world of
ours. At the first -onset, we deserted the cart unanimously, but the
Biahma came down on us "like a thousand of brick," and we scram-
bled back into the cart, an all hands 'getting in behind'to avoid the
bull's horns, it tilted up  and of all the promiscuous intermingled
'scrambling that beat   Into the cart again, we commenced with
our only weapons, our hats, defending ourselves, against our new op-
ponents, the hornets, and -after a short, 'decisive battle, we were left
with tnany painful bumps the victors.
All this time M'ae was setting on the top of :an' old' stum  in the
neighboring field, shouting to us to "'Ge it!" "give 'em  cssorsii
'6 pitch in and get squeezed !" etc.; and the distance being too great
for him' to discern clearly'-our maneuvers, he took up a nearer posi-
tion on the fence, anl there shouted and laughed until we thought
-he'd explode. His movement, however, saved us, for the bull, attracted

4f ; .
r .t
i;
'. S
j
;
.F

t


U4

cREDSTICK; ORi,

,robablylby his shouts,'look up a bee-line fhr his old enemy. Mic
.not liking to trust -the stability of the fence too far, got downand cut
like a quarter-horse. In the meantime  such a getting out of trees
and thg cart was by far ahead of tall the feats of agility ever dis-
played in a circus. The race for the opposite side of the fence from
where the Brahma was,'was hotly contested. Two or three fell down
in a little -hollow of vater, and their cries to the balance of us to stop
foi them were affecting but not effective. The main body reached the
fence, and the "Balaklava charge" was no comparison to the manner
in which that fence was charged; 'ten pannels at least, went down be-
fore the fury of our onset, and they stayed down, for no one remained.
behind to put them up. We never broke a trot until we arrived safe
at the 'Colonel's.!
Mac had arrived before us, but did not await our arrival. Order-
ing his horse he had put for Redstick, and thereby saved his hide.
We had a -8plendid time extracting thorns and curing our many
stings and contusions, and the rabbit 'hunt broke up with more hunters
hurt than rabbits,
CHAPTER VII.
"Truth will out." "
Ws had been residing in Redstick over a twelvemonth, and although
the practice of a Choate or Webster had not as yet showered upon
our devoted heads its golden reward, still we had eases enough to pay
expenses and allow a semi-occasional spree; which I am sorry to
inform you, gentle reader, (for the credit of the Redstickians) was by
far the most rapid manner for us to ingratiate ourselves among that
community. One little drunk, as it is there expressively denominated,
'went farther to gain us friends than all the eloquence we so energeti
cally, and, I may say, sometimes frantically expended within the
limits of the old brown court-house.
Do not gather from the above, dear reader, that getting on a spree
is the best manner of making acquaintances in every section of
ebuntry; for in some places the Redstick code will not carry a man
through with a brick in his hat; for instance, my friend Fred
Hoops, Esq., whilst on a visit to New Orleans, finding himself lonely,
tried the above method, and he deliberately takes his oath, that the
only acquaintance the brick made for him, was an introduction to
some brother bricks and a crazy Dutchman, who together formed the
walls, and, save himself, the 9uly inmate of the calaboose, into which
delectable depository he found -himself before night. '
But to ay y'lang, as they say in: Arkansas, Of cases we had a few,
6f debts a*me,  and of friendesa 4ehop. We were invited to all the
balls, went to see all the girls, and ,both, in company with all the mar-
riageable young men ia theneighborhood, paid desperate, though

r
I
s

SCENES IN THE SbU OUTH'.
?istfant attentions to one bright particular star who, to the attractions
of beauty, wit and intelligence, added the almighty puissant -attractive
quality of wealth. I'say, we paid her distant attentions, for ithe fact
was, she gave none of us any proof that our flattering attentions were
in any manner desirable.
One evening I received a triangular scented billet, containing the
satisfactory information that my company was desired at a ball, to be
given the succeeding evening, at the residence of one of our wealthiest
citizens; and pluming myself upon the distinguished honor-fki' the
party was at one of those aristocratic southerners, who look not upon
(as they style them) second-rate Hoosier lawyers, as in any way their
equals in social position. I went over9o Mac's office, nd found him
caperimg about from the effects of a sidifar invitation finding ius way
to his sanctum.
"What do you think of it, Hal?" he asked me,. as I entered the
door.
" Well, I don't know; are you going ?" .2
4" Certingly man! don't you know they are cousinS of Miss Ducha-
pitzwha, (Anglice-Mac's Tennessee French for Dudiapell4), and she'll
sure to be thar; and another thing I'll tell you, Hal, in confidence; now,
mind you-you know how shelooked at me in church last Sunday."
"Go to grass with her looking at you last Sunday; you know it -was
because Dick Foxy fastened the office towel to your coat-tail; who
the dickens wouldn't look at you, and laugh too, for that matter ?"
" Oh, you are a dratted fbol-dirn that towel! I'll be even with
Dick yet for that.- But never rnid, she looked at me and smiled, and
I'll be hanged if she hasn't had me booked for to-morrow night of her
own accord."
"Well, never mind that; are we going to the oyster-supper at
ve's to-night ?"
Why, ya-as ; but I don't like to much-I'll look confounded
sleepy to-morrow night."
That night we went to a rousing oyster-supper, and about twelve
we had each and every one of us become slightly merry; whether
from the effects of the oysters, or their accompaniments, I am unable
to say.
But, any how, the party had let down to about half-a-dozen real
genuines,. including, of course, Dick Foxy, Mac and me ; and the-
subject matter of conversation warped around to the ball of the next
night, and we commenced joking Mac about Miss Duchapell6.
"Well, joke away, my heroes; I'll bet any ono of*you twebty-five
dollars I go home with herto-morrow night."
"Done," exclaimed half-a-dozen, and Mae was taken up on all
sides; but as he would only bet twenty-five, ard seemed very
distrustful at that, I was allowed to take upythegentleman's bet.v
What plans Mac and Dick concocted that night, will all come out
before you get to the end of this chapter; suffice it to say, I assisted
another gent hoine, and we followed close behind the two aforemen-
tioned, and in their eagerness to arrange the plan of action, I


F

REDSTICK; ORt

overheard sufficient to give me a clue to their intended modus
oPerandi.
The next night was the crisis of Mac's fate, and twenty-five bet,
and we all went up to the scene of action "dressed to death," and
in perfect fidgets. That ball! Oh, reader! I will not attempt to
describe. Fancy the golden, radiant .gems above falling to earth,
and assuming, as they fall, the glorious shape of that "last, best
gift to man "-fancy all the concentrated ottar of beautiful fancies
your mind is capable of, and then, oh reader, fancy that you'miss
the beautiful reality several feet. Redstick was then in all her glory,
and, for beauty, Redstick is, just as far ahead of all creation as
you fancy your own bright particular star leads the galaxy of
womankind.e
Miss D. was there; but a splendid specimen of mankind, in the
shape of her cousin just arrived from a European tour, kept back
by his attentions to her, the vain efforts of several who had hoped
that night to enjoy exclusively the conversation of Miss D. Mac
looked, daggers at the fellow, whose glossy black mustache so far
outshone his own stubby sorrel, as to prevent the lady in question
from even- noticing it-that mustache that had cost him so much
time, so much trouble, and never to be even looked at, much less
noticed, by the lovely fair one-for whose beautiful eyes it was solely
intended-but never mind, Mae, yours was not the first bush that
shedd its beauty on. the desert air." I
About three o'clock in the morning, the advance-guard commenced
a retreat toward home, and, somehow or other, some twenty of us
young men gatherra around the door, and. chatting, laughing and
betting, passed merrily the time away. Inside of the door vas a large
gang of negro and mulatto girls; some of them as white, if not
fairer, than their mistresses. These were the maids in waiting, armed
cap-a-pie with shawls, talhas, etc., ready to encase the fair forms of
the young missis at the shortest notice. Amidst the confusion of the
gay scene, I kept my eye steadily upon Mac, who, after a whispered,
confab with one of his particular friends, nudged him laughingly
under the 'ribs, and gaily disappeared among the throng of waiters
inside the door. In a moment afterward, a darkey emerged from the
crowd, and, approaching Miss D. and her chaperon, vho stood lovingly
engaged in the, to us, delicious operation of encasing her lovely form
in the various millinery fixing necessary to protect her from the
chilly air on their way home, bowing low, the darkey handed the gent
a card, upon reading which he seemed greatly surprised, and, abruptly
leaving his partner, made his way through the crowd. He was away
out doors some ten or fifteen minutes, and when he returned, he Was
met by the fair belle, who, taking his hand, sprang into the carriage,
called up by the stentorian lungs of the black porter who kept
vociferating-"Mis Duchapelle/s carriage."
Away they rolled out of the yard, around the corner, on the road
toward the residence of Miss D. In a few moments the crowd of men
fell back, and, to our surprise, the old darkey commenced vociferating

SCENES IN THE SOUTU.

27

"Miss Duchapell' !' As her carriage was already gone, Mac stepped
up, and, politely showing, informed the lady that some one had carried
off her carriage, and offered his services to see her home. After a
moment's hesitation, she mechanically took his arm, and drawing her
thick vail closer over her fair face, off they went.
Amid a storm of jokes and jeers about mys lost twenty-five, I
repaired to the hall, and walking up to where her cousin had left her
standing, I found Miss Duchapell' 'still awaiting his reappearance.
As I. was slightly acquainted with the lady, I requested permission to
see her home; which request, as she was evidently nettled at her
cousin's strange conduct, after some hesitation, she. accorded. As
she was all ready, we -started out, and the look of surprise which
puckered up the faces of my companions at the door, as we caine out,
affles description. Not noticing the low expressions of astonishment
;which greeted our tars, we were soon out in the street on our way to
the lady's residence.
In high spirits at the way things had turned out, I made myself
agreeable to Miss D. in the best style I could assume. It was'a long
walk, and unbroken by anything unusual, until we were within a few
hundred yards of her residence, when we suddenly came upon her
cousin,.who was standing stock still, gazing into vacancy. Upon our
approach, he mechanically made way; but recognizing Miss D., he
sprang forward and exclaimed!
"Why, Lucy! what is the meaning of all this ?"
"I do not know to what you allude, Colonel; I have notning to
explain ; and if you have, perhaps another time would suit just as
well."
Surprised and indignant, he bowed low and turned away.
Passing on, as we neared the house a series of yells and oaths
met our astounded earg. They seemed to proceed from the garden
in front of the house, and in a few moments I could distinguish the
voices of Mac and Dick, intermingled with the loud barking and yells
of at least a dozen dogs. Hastening forward, we were about ten feet
from the gate, when a terrific crashing among the -shrubbery took
place, and Mac came flying over the fence with a dog fast to each coat
tail. A moment after the gate flew open with a bang, and out came
Dick, dressed in women's clothes, tho skirt of which was lined with
dogs, each one affectionately doing his best to induce him not to leave
the grounds, at least, not before partaking of their hospitality.
Kicking like a fury, Dick got his legs entangled into the skirts and
came down her whang, crushing one of the dogs in his fall. With the
assistance of Miss D., whose voice had more effect than my-kicks, we
liberated the gentlemen; and bidding Miss D. an afectionate good
night, I helped him denude himself of his borrowed finery, which-
threw desperately into the ditch alongside the road; and then, after
using up the whole cursing vocAulary, he forthwith let the cat out of
the bag.
Mae had engaged a colored girl to personate the first Miss D.,
whicli she did so effectually, by means of a veil and the keeping of her

I

26

m

,t

s
i
ti
1
9
b


mouth shut, that Mr. -  never suspected her not being Miss D.,
until he put&amp; questioft to her Which required at pretty long answer,
when The threw open the door and fled in hothate, the poor (JooneZ
following her until she disappeared around the corner, where we found
him. I need not inform you of the nature of that question; it it
efficient, that the Glolonel took that as his final refusal, explanation
or no explanationo.
TheseondMiss D. was no less than Mr. Dick Foxy, dressed to
personate her. Dick told, an awful tale on Mac: He says that
enterprising gent plied him with questions relative' to her property,
that *ould have taken ten clerks of the court to answer, and that
when they arrived at the house, Mac popped the questions ormally to
her-him, I mean-and that the low tender answer the counterfeit lady
made was interrupted by a charge of dogs that would have done
honor to Balaklava.
h" The worst," said Dick, ",was this catching me round the waist and
holding me between him and the confounded hounds, hollering all the
time, Keep 'em off, Miss D.f keep 'em off!'  I was so full of
laugh," continued that individual, "that if it had not a bin that an old
brindle bull-dog niyped my leg, I would have tried to keep up tho
farce ; but I thought if it kep on, I might make food for dogs, and I
hollered out, 'Let me go, Mac and help me get out of this!' Don't
you think the dirn cuss, didn't forget the dogs, and, commenced
pounding me like dairnation-! He'd have beat ine to a je.l if old
brindle had'nt clapped onto him; thet' he cut, jemina, I'almost
forgot myself, yelling at him. Did'nt old Col. D.'s rose-bushes
scatter ? Whoop, yah-eya, yah! But I didn't hey to wait long, boys,
before the dratted dogs let me know I wern't Miss 'D My whole
valeable wardrobe *as lined with dog teeth! Whoop, come, let'stake
a. drink !"
Of what resulted from this singular series of "going homes," is it
not in the next chapter-
CHAPTER VIII.
"My wounded honor deep I'll lave,
And cleanse it in the coward's blood."
Ott MSS.
IAC came over to my office early on the succeeding morning, and
although I expected a Scene when we met, I was surprised at his
solemn -expression of countenance ;. his greeting was of the "more in
torrow than in anger style," and he drew up an office chair and
informed me that "things had coma to a focus between Dick and
him-in fct, they had that morning met at the Spread Eagle (which
by the way was the cognomen of a flashy hotel, restaurant and coffee'
house, three in one, lately spiung into existence), cold looks were
succeeded by wirm words, and these ultimately by hearty blows, and

4

,28

REDSTICK ; OR,

s
a
x
w
Y
R
3
f
[
Y
7.4
r ,t
i
t
r
pry
,d
f
l
1
'Z
s
.J
F
it
L
i
d

SCENES. IN TIU  8QUTI.

29

the whole resulted in Dick's challengingaMac to fight him that eyen"
ing-which challenge Mae immediately acceptedA.
" Mac," I exclaimedfin surprise, "'is it possible,; is this going to be
the end of all the bright hopes and happy aspirations we, so hopefully
pictured das stored in the future for us.?"
"Well, I don't care, Hal, I am in for it now, and I'll be hanged; if
I don't go through with it,"
Thinks I to myself,. well, you are in. for it; but a happy thought
struck me, and I requested him to allow me to, act as, his accond.
"1oo late, 'old fell,' Jim Hartz acts for me. I am sorry I didn't
think of you; but the fact is, the whole matter was. transacted in such
a hurry, that all my presence of mind forsook me, and Ijust left the
patter in the hands of Jim and Bob Smith, who both showed a devil
of a desire to accelerate matters."
Finding I could do nothing, as matters then stood, for Jim and Bob
were of the chivalry class, and would almost as soon be horse-whipped
as give up their chances of figuring in a bonarfide duel, I requested
Mac to wait until I came back, and, taking my hat, off I put for Dick'g
residence, which was some distance from my. office,. On my, arrival,
Dick himself answered my knock, and coldly inviting Me. to enter,
requested me to seat myself trnd let, hirth, know what I was after.
" Well, Dick, I come to put an end to this. nonsense."
"Nonsense be hanged," he exclaimed; "I'll tell you what, Hal, if
Mac has sent you on this cowardly errand, you, can go baek and "-
" Hold up,, my dear sir-Mao never sent me to beg off, and so far
from begging of, if be don't put you through remember that you can
have the pleasure of meeting one who. is more on an, equality, with
you in the art of pistol shooting;" so saying I left the premiseA, and
left with a determination to see, the matter fairly out,
Mae and I were busy all that day in devising, plans to prevent there
being any foul. play, for he had unfortunately; allowed a second, to be
forced. upon him, who evidently bore him no' great good will, the
gentleman not coming near him during the day.
At four o'clock we took up a bee-line for the place where theaffair
was to come of', and were extremely surprised t the vast; concourse
assembled to see the sport. Our arrival was greeted with loud shouts
of " Here they come,-hurra," "Goit, sabots!" and other situilar ex,'
pressions. Men and boys, darkeys, and,'infact, the whole masculine
population were upon the ground; some, engaged in quarreling, and
others in betiny upon the result.
After a great deal of jabbering and fussing, the principals took up
their positions at twenty paces, their pistols were handed to them, and
the crowd fell back into two lines. Atthis moment, and just as:Boh
Smith was about to give.the word, a great deal of yellingand hooting,
hurraiing and vociferating, from, the crowd, attra'eted, the attentionw
ot all engaged toward a "nip ,and tuck" race between two individuals,
who were coming tearing up theiroad on foot; theywere, soon:recogr
nrzed as the justice and constable.s of their town, and, a great deal of
excitenent took place among all hands,.caused by. a. frantic. desire

*


{

so                  -   REDSTICK; OR
they were all' possessed of to have the 'duel come off before the
honorable gents arrived Qfl the ,ground.
hoAt this moment the ground presented a curious scene ; about one-
half the crowd were' pulling and hauling at Mac and Dick, interfering
with the seconds, and by their own haste rendering it impossible for
the two gents to perform what the crowd expected and wished of them,
without endangering the lives and limbs of half-a-dozen individuals;
the balance of the crowd were engaged either in betting on the race,
between the justice and constable, or quarreling gInd fighting .about
Dick and Mac.
In a few moments the minions of the law arrived on the ground
completely exhausted, old Judge Chickoy who'was a two hundred and
fifty pounder, falling; completely out of breath upon the swardl; it
afterward leaked out that they had been playing poker at the Spread
Eagle, and under the impression that the affair wouhf not come off
until six o'clock, they came pretty near missing the fun.
All fears of their in any way interfering were soon put to flight
by the old judge exclaiming, as he arose from the ground:
"4Who--who'll be-bet me twenty-five agin Mac's pinning him the
first pop ?"
As everybody had bet all they wished on the result, the judge was
forced to look on, as he expressed it, "as a disinterested spectator."
The crowd were again forced back from.the space occupied by 'the
combatants, and Mac and Dick once more faced each other, prepared
to wash out in blood the fancied stains upon their honor. I may here
remark that they had not been setting upon the grass.
Bob Smith prepared to give the word, and one, two, came out of
his mouth, as clear, sonorous and distinct as if he were calling upon
all hands to walk up and take a drink. At this point, a little fice ran
across the field between the principals, and the owner, awfully con-
cerned for the safety of the little "varmint," yelled out: 2
"1Stop the fight I great Gin'ral Jackson! don't shute my dog."
Here, again, a general uproar took place, and such a cursing as
that poor ficeand his unlucky owner got would have shattered the
nerves of a "passed lawyer."  Such is human nature. That fellow
had walked ten miles to see one or two valuable lives thrown away,
and would have gone home most awfully disappointed, if one of the
combatants had not bit the dust; yet, for the safety of a little worth-
less five, not worth ten bits, he came pretty near taking a fit.
At last order was restored, and Bob Smith taking up his position,
on a small hillock to the left of- the principals, sung out, "one-
two-.-." here you could have heard a pin drop; some of the spectators
turned away, some -involuntarily covered their eyes, but for the honor
of Redatick, I must say, by far the greater portion gazed fixedly at th
one they calculated was sure to drop, when ",three-fire !" broke the
awful silence, and pip! pip! went the caps on each pistol. The crowd
once more rushed up, atiid the seconds took the pistols and examined
them attentively. After. placing fresh caps upon the nipples, the
dietauce was narrowed down-to ten paces at the request of the excited

SCENES IN THE SOUTH.
p-incipals, who were worked up into a perfect fit of rage oy the many
interruptions; and Bob-once more took up his position, with his left
hand gracefully placed under his swallow. coat tails. Just as he
opened his mouth to give the word, another melee took place among
the crowd, this time occasioned by two bull-dogs, who knew no better
than to fight at such a time and place. As they belonged to two rival
butchers, who had made a match between the- dogs to come off the
succeeding evening, of course Bob had to stop until the uproar, ceased.
There he stood upon the little mound, a perfect picture of impatience
upon a monument, with one hand extended. He had just turned
around to give the word anyhow, when bang, bang went a double-
barrel among the crowd, and Bob sprang ten feet in the air. We
rushed up to him as he Jay extended on the ground on his face, and
lifted him up; the back part of his unmentionables about ten inches
below his back; were perfectly perforated with something a good deal
finer than "mustard-seed shot," which we afterward found out was a
full load of salt, that proceeded from the gun ofan overseer, who had
been attracted from a neighboring field where he was watching for
sugar-cane thieves," in the shapeof boys; and getting uptripped in
the melee, as a natural consequence, he fell on his gun, which going
off caused the mischief.
The dickens was to pay now, and I tried ineffectually to get the
duel postponed, but no, fight they would, and I took Bob's place as
second to Dick. Standing upon the same mound, with, I acknowledge,
a slight feeling of fear lest the prominent position I occupied might
draw upon me the ,consequences consequent upon another accident
among the crowd taking place, I gave the word, and pip! pip! burst
the caps again. We were extremely surprised at this repetition, and
going up to them, we underwent a series of curses both loud and
deep.
Aint any one got a pair of decent pistols ?" exclaimed the two
worthies, as they eyed us scornfully, as if we had anything to do with
the non-explosive qualities of the powder. But no, no two had pistols
alike, and we proceeded to prime and shake the powder down into the
tubes.
Once more they took their positions, and giving the word, pip, pip,
went the confounded caps. At this juncture, Dick seized a little stick,
run it down the barrel of his pistol, and lo! it was empty; Mac dis-
covered his was the same, and both being suddenly taken with a each-
inatory fit, they rushed up and shook eaph other heartily by tho
hands. The seconds were so wrought up with excitement that they
had forgotten to load the Pistols, each thinkingthe other had attended
to that little matter, and so it ended. What bets that were not with-
drawn, were turned over on to the dog fight which was to come of
the next day. The dogs being nick-named respectively Dick and Mae.
I am sorry to have to. record the fact that Dick chawed up Mao
awf lly; as for us-well, we sung "we won't go home till morning,"
and we 'didn't. 1edstibk was alive that night.

I


'I

BEDSTICK; OR
CHAPTER IX.
On to the charge, your country's call
Obey anid rally I rally, all!
Ta Pop-cons WAK.,
BOB SMiTH'S wounds, although painful, were not in any manner
dangerous, and in the. course of a week he was up and out again;
although he was laughed at by almost everyone who methin, he bore
it good humoredly, only swearing by all that was good and lovely,
to be even with us all before a twelve-month:; how well he kept his
promise, good reader, you will find out before you finish this volume
of standard literature.t
A few weeks after the "affair of honor," court commenced in Red-
stick, and Mac and I had several cases. to be put through, besides
which, the grand jury had presented the whole population: of a dis-
trict entitled "Devil's: Swamp," and we were certain to have some-
thing to do in the,matter, either as prosecutors or defendant's counsel.
It seems that that whole district were up in, arms against each other,
from some cause, no one knew what; but as the swamp lay adjoining
the Mississippi river,'and as flat-boats- bad began to "come down"
from the "upper country" with cargoes of which "old rye" formed
by far the greater portion, the origin andiperpetuation of the disturb.
ance may pretty. well be guessed at.
I may as wdll here inform the reader, that the bench and bar of
Redstick county, or rather parish, as they are called down South, was
composed of "Old Judge Peasly," presiding justice, the, prosecuting
attorney, who was called, from his claiming descent from John Ran.
dolph, Pacahontas, and. another distinguished F.F.V., by the singu-
lar cognomen of "Small Bug," two other lawyers who, resided in
Pumpkin Hollow, and who rejoiced in the names of Blaze and Cinders,.
and your two humble servants. The 'old judge, was a rip snorter in
his way, and when a little fun was going on intcourt, generallyjoined
in and assisted the thing along.
The first case called was "State of Louisiana, versus Hezekiah
Swamprat and Wheeler Babtiste Bellzaire Poker." These two gentle-
men appeared, and claiming the assistance of counsel, the judge-ap-
pointed'Blaze and Mac, to defend, them; Cinders being retained to
assist the prosecuting attorney, and I was left to take notes, and
with your consent, Mr. Reader, here theyare: ,d,           s
The first witness, called was a perfect type an appearance, dress
and manners of the whole: compoodlement of them; drenged.in a,
hickory shirt, slouched wool hat, and jenimima alone knows what
kind of pants! face unwashed, hair unkempt, and his; manner em"
boldened by raw whisky imbibed at the "Spread Eagle," which was
contiguous to the courthouse; he was fair specimen of the free-
bon, rearing, tearing, fear-nobody, half-horse, half-alligator, inde-
pendentAmuerican oitizene -
le stated " that thartwar a gin'ral fuss i and a sweet ole noise, but
was sick, he war, and couldn't tell it peromptorily."

SCENES IsN TPIB soUH.
Cross question ,-.-" Had apain in hi stumiek, sum wun hit him yarly
in the, fight."
The second witness stated "thar war several wery preticular fights,
bAt he war too drunk tq see ar'ry on $m.
The third witness said 'he "knowed thar war a gin'ral row, but
s'tween who he'd be hanged ef he could tell, as he had been a eating
of pickled keowoumbers, and, was suffrin the usual consekens.'
Judge wanted to know what the usual consekePs were, but counsel
for defense objected, as there were ladies present. Judge begge4
pardon, said he forgot.
Cinders for plainti f,-who had been eating pecans, arose ;nd sworq
the question must be answered, and spreading himself, exclaimed:
"Your honor, whenever the wings of the American Eagle are spread,
there I there! your honor, an Aerican has the right to freely ex-
presa himself."
Mac, for defense, arose and majestically swooping his arm therebyy
overturning an inkstand, for which after court he had to pay th
sheriff two bits).said,"' that wherever under the Star Spangled Ban-
ner and shade of the Constitution there were ladies, their presence
was respected."  Here he was interrupted by a cheer from tw9
little "niggers," who were immediately chased by the deputy sheriff
into the wide-open door of the Spread' Eagle, although they took v
contrary dirotion,
" That where beauty was present, man    Ad man's law mud
succumb."
Here, to the surprise of everybody, ope of the ladies immediately
fainted, I say surprise, for "Devil's Swanp," where these ladies
came from, was far more celebrated fgr the Wop4-chopping qualifica-
tions of its feminines than for fainting proppAsities,  She wasjr
however,, brought to by rubbing On old segar violently up and down,
her nose.
The whole question was settled by proving that no American flag
ever was seen in Devil's Swamp; that instead of eagles, turkey bus-,
sards were the prominent game in that section of the country. B4
to compromise, the question was- -asked differently, after removing
the ladies to the back room, so as to be out of reaeh of the consekviU,;
Judge, asked witless "what effect had the cucumber ?"
Witness-" They set py teeth on aidge."
general uproar-4-Zhe deputy found both ladio looking through a
knot hole.
The ext witnep was called in haste, _*d the judge asked him.
where he was at the time.
After hesitating a 14oment, he replied:
"Well, you see, jedge, I was sorter 'hind the ohicken-ep."
"Why, what were you doing there?"
"Well, we hadn't had noliquorefor four wr- five days, and Oe Qi 
had sot .a demijohn full of old Nd-eye, behind thar, en finke M
myself, whilst all you fellars is apitehi in and gittou skes 4
mout as well enji myself; well I. be billy  -           -ii
3

I(

ii4
,r
T


"No swearing in court!" thundered the old judge.
"I begs a thousand pardins, jedge; I only meant God dirn."
"Well go on."
"Well, as I said aforesaid, I picks up the jug and gins it a natural
twist, and I'll be God--I begs yer pardin, jedge-I mean God dirn-
I 'sure you I do," continued the witness, in an agony of fear. "I
didn't mean to say it, jedge, I'll be d--- if I did-.
"Shut your clatter, and go on," shouted the judge, getting as mad
as blazes.
"Well, you see, I kept one eye skinned on the crowd, cos they
was pitchin rails and cord-wood all around; en I thought, by jings--
jememmima! I oily meant God dirn-I 'sure you I did."
"Go on with your story, confound you!" yelled the excited judge.
"Well, hold on, jedge; don't kick 'bout it this time. Well, ez you
know, I riz the jug to my mouth and took most a-a-a God dirn swig--
and, I'll be did-did-diddy dog gonned ef some puke hadn't gone and
filled the jug full or turpentine."
"Discharge that witness, Mr. Sheriff " exclaimed the judge, "and
place his name, if he's got any, on the list of exempt jurQrs, wit-
nesses and tax-payers; and if you ever summons him to appear be-
fore me Iagain, I'll commit you for contempt of court. Bring on
the next."
This gentleman was matrimonially connected with one of the ladies
in court, and was as jealous as a swamptick. The first question was:
"What is the character of Mrs. Pawpaw ?"
"Here the judge winked at the deputy to take the ladies in the
back room, as he didn't want any more fainting. The deputy, in' at-
tempting to remove the ladies, was met by fierce looks from the lady
who wanted to faint, so she could hear the evidence. Deputy placed
his hand on the lady who uttered a faint squeal ; the husband, who had
been talking like blazes about the Dovil's Swamp Railroad, and the
price of turtles, turned his head suddenly, and seeing the state of
affairs, rushed up to his honor, and pointing his finger at the shrink-
ing deputy, roared out:
"I am a free-born American citizen, and by Davy Crockett, I won't
allow any man to intrude on the premises of my prem'tion right."
Tremendous excitement-deputy fainted ; took him over to the
Spread Eagle; returned eating a chunk of cheese.
!1'he next witness refused to answer.- Said "he'd been 'spressin his
pinion before and had got wollopped like thunder for it, and he
would'rit run the risks, unless the judge would give bonds to take a
piece." This the judge emphatically declined doing, and as the wit-
ness was too triffling to commit for contempt, he was discharged.
Small ug then spoke an hour, and was followed by the balance of
'the lawyers who spoke two hours more, during which time the judge
went to -sleep; the listeners, adjourned to the Spread Eagle; the
depity and constable played poker in the back room; lawyers ended;
Judge awoke with a snort; the deputy snatched up the cards, consta-
ble pocketed the small change, and-the case was kicked out of court.

84

'REDSTICK ; OR,

80ENRS IN TIME SOUTh.
The next case called was one very similar in. everything except the
evidence, and from the fact of defendant, a woman, being accused of
whipping two individuals at once, Bill Smith and his wife, the reader
will observe the similarity atla glance.
The heroine of this affair, Miss June Bug, appeared in couri
dressed in a faded calico, which Blaze, in his appel to the jury, cone
strued to be immaculate white.
She was supported on either side by the deputy and constable,
which latter's eyes were as red as a sick rabbit's,-from what cause
no one knew,-some said he had no control over his "phelinx,"-'
others, less romantic, declared, the cause laid in the fact that the
Spread Eagle had raw onions for desert at breakfast that morning, of
which the honorable constable had partaken-rather freely.
The first witness called was a gentleman with a complexion the
color of autumn leaves and an abdomen "too numerous to mention7'
Upon being interrogated and asked to tell a straight story, com-
prising all he knew about the affair, he comnienced:
"Wall, you see squar, I war fast asleep the night of this here frayi
and warnt thinking of anythink in particular, and dreaming 'bout 4
heap of things in gin'ral, when I earn a noise sich as made my har
stan' straight out, which is the case every time I'm waked, which you
know, is cause Im rather-..-"
" We don't want to know what you are, all we want to know is what
you know of this affair," interrupted the judge.
Here Blaze, for defense, objected; said he might communiotte
something of importance.
Small Bug, for prosecution, referred to page 687, Book III of the
Black-Snake War, and quoted: "When a personal compact comes in
contact with a regular contract, local consequences forces witness to
retract." Witness, who was sortei dumfounded, exclaimed, "that
any one who said a horse-rack had hit his catarack was a-a-(here
a fierce look frodi Small Bug)-mistaken."
Judge.-" Go on, witness, what you know, say; and what you don't
know, don't say."
Witness.-"Well, as I said afore, I stepped out of doors, and thar
I seed two critters a ginning of each other particular scissors; it was
so dark at fus I couldhardly tell who' they war; at fus I thought they
war a couple of catamounts a hevin'a little duel in ny yard, arthen
I begin to feel like gittin in the house agin. Theni-begin to sdin'nize
their voices; and, then, you better believe, I got into the house, for,
you know, jedge, its agin my principles to interfere atween two
women unless one hollers, and then I allers separates em. Well, at
last one of em hollered nuff like forty screech owls, and I run out to
part ein; and who do you think it was! 'nobody but my old ooman
and this' -here June Bug, who otight to be put in jail for her nat'r4A
life-&amp; kickin up like a couple of cats in-my yard. Well, I run biut
to separate em, when something hit me on the catagw, as Mister Blass
os jus now, and brought me down cawhallop:-it want an igee';oh
no:-it want a stick; oh no :-but tras a dirned big bat, it--"


K

I

flere Blaze sgain inerrupted the witness,,d asked the court and
ury, what credence could be placed in a witness who would deliber'
etely assert that he had been kngqkod down by a bat.
Small Bug immediately referred to vol.5 Baron Humbug's Materia
Medical, page 975, to prove that a vampire bat has been known to
kill a man. .
"Then you assert, sir," demanded Blaze, "that i vampire bat is
all the same as a Louisiana bat."     ...
" Certainly, sir, and I can prove the similarity. Here, sir, the
immortal Baron Humbug-says a bat's a .at all the world over."
"I suppose you will admit then, that a bug's a bug all the world
over ?"
"Certainly, sir; the same authority says so, and I am content to
rest the reception or rejection of the evidence upon Humbug's works
slone.".                                 .                ,
" Then, your honor, I demand that his evidence (the witness's)
be not received, for here, your honor, in Whoop-poles Commentaries,
page 266: 'that where the proseentor's evidence, or any other evi-
danoe, proceeds from anything that bears any resemblance in person
or any other manner, with the parties engaged, the witness's testimony
must be thrown out.' ThQ honorable gentleman admits that a bats
a bat all the world over and that a bug is a bug, et similibu8; there.
fore, I demand that as my client bears the oame of Bug, and the
evidence he offers is humbug, that the witness's testimony be thrVn
out." Granted by the astounded judge, who looked around for the
witness to throw him out, but witness was already around to the
Spread 'Eagle. : The deputy gladly obeyed the order to go:and bring
i6 in. In a few minutes the witness was brought back, and upon
being requested to explain about the bat, said:
" Oh! yes, It was a bat,----W4ll, you see, as I said afore, it was a
&amp;ri-Iaka (great sensation) hit me on the soekedyput and blazed me.
Weg, I come to arter a while, and I went to stop the fight, for my
old ooman was gitten picked up awfully. I didn't like to interfere
much, for, thinks I to myself, ef June Bug can whip her, I know she
can. whip me, for my old *oman caoaelan roe out; therefore, I pro-
seeded to put, my arms 'roind my 9ld ooman to pull her ofl, and we9
pulledi-and June Bug pulled, until at:last Jun Bug fell one way and
weifell tother-and, lord a massa, I fell right into the jaws of a big
steel coon-trap, and jemima, didn't them ar teeth walk into my onerar
q parts! June Bug pitohod on again, and I held on to old ooman to
perteok me and :thar we had it-Bug on ,ld oeman,.old ooman on
me, and mein the darned trap. Arter p while, I let go qld ooma
with Bag sator her, and they ct across the fields like two quarter'
erses, and I got up with the dirned thing clamped on my hide, the
%ping setia  I 2 couldn'Areach it, Well, it didn't, hurt much log,
40 I kept 11, but when I wetkt to wlk the infernal ehan brought me
sp el standing:; then my har risecained clamped i a stump, totheo
ehd tie to steWl tra?, and trap-,
"'Ladies present,'1 sid tbe jedgo

40

EtEDS i OR).0%

SCENES IN THE SOUTH.
"Well," continued the witness, 't anyhow, that I staid all nighi,
suff'rin acute sensibles, fer the blasted wimmin never onme back.
Thar I staid yelping and squalling through the long Buena Vista's of
the night, as Blaze said just now in his speech, running round and
round the stump till I trod on a snaik, or suthin like, for I never
stopped to see, and I gin a big jumb and a holler like a railroad
whistld, and I war loose. I never stopped runnin till I fetched up at
Redstick.-Had to get on a pillow ever since.
The next witness was for the defense, and he stated that he wat
one of the fellows as did know all about it.
. "I was a going along the road and I seed old Pumpkin Head a
rakin in his fields and as I owed him a whipping, I hollered to him ef
he would come out I would thrash him until his hide would do for a
meal bag. With that he gin a yell and come at me full tilt, but I
fixed him. I fell on my hands and knees jes. before he got to m6,
and he fell, not over me as I expected, but right on to pof me, and th!
way he gin me scissors was a sin to black snaiks. Well, I hollered
nuff severil times, but he was so busy 'tending to my carcass that he
had no time to tend to my hollerin. At last one of the field hands
come and pulled him off, but he come dirn slow; I tell you, he walked
as easy as if he was treading on eggs, but he pulled him off-and I
had some business to attend to home and so I left."
Other witnesses were examined, but neither the ingenuity of Blaze
nor the eloquence of Small Bug could get a word relative to the case
in question out of them. The jury retired and gave a verdict iti
favor of Miss June Bug, the defendant, with one dollar and six bits
damages, that being the assessed value of the calico dress lost and
ruined in the fight.
CHAPTER X'
Boy-She must be lovely, antelic
meue-And mine, only neck---
UNPUBLISHED PLAY.
How much that only expresses, I exclaimed to Mae, as we were
setting in his office parlor one day quoting piootry, comedy, etc., until
we were forced to suspend our amusement from sheer listlessnes*.
Youth, choice, sacrificed; the affections dearest to man's heart triffied
with, and all for what ? for money!
"LMy dear sir, you dilate upon the wonderful contracting destroy.
tive power ,of- that other name -for trash-money, like you have
had a suffeit Of it, just for all Whe world like a starving rattlesnake
choking in his dreams, in his desperate efforts at swallowing a fine fit
fancied frog; and yet, I doubt not, a girl with a, snug pile'wold
stahd just as fair a show with you as a frog disturbing the slumber*
at the aforesaid reptile6 As for me,,I carne' South, sir, to acquire


SCENES IN THE SOUTH.

'I

fame, or wealth, or both, and I'll be hanged if I don't push my legal
and financiering abilities to the utmost to procure them both."
" Well, sir, I have no objection to your swallowing more than your
share, providing you don't swamp your 'bark of happiness' in the
successful prosecution of your object."
"'No, Hal, my bark of happiness shall never sink. As long as
there is fun out, you shall hear my yelp in the chorus."
"I expect your yelping would assume a sharper tone if the thought
pf a disagreeable, cross, ugly wife waiting for you with a keen tongue
at home, should happen to flit across your mind in the mqidst of your
merriment; but I see by your Yankee clock 'tis time to fix up and go
and see our lady loves. I'll come around for you at seven, Mac; till
then aw'revoir."
Among the multitude of our lady acquaintances there were two
with whom Mac and I were equally respectively smitten. Miss Clara
and Miss Estelle Smythe were new comers in our burgh, and we were
among the first male acquaintances with the father of Miss Clara
and uncle of Miss Estelle, for they were cousins. They inhabited a
beautiful place about four miles from town, and as they were reputed
immensely wealthy, of course, we were not the only Richmonds in
the field. Mr. Smythe, Esq., was a cioss, rabid old customer, and
believed in duelling and cowhiding as the only remedies for wounded
honor; and, indeed, such was his reverence for field practice, that
rumor assigned some six or seven duels to the old cuss, (I hope he'll
,never read this)-and the civil code was as nothing compared with
his mode of setting affairs.
About his wealth there was not a shadow of doubt, and unfortu-
nately for me there was considerable expressed relative to the at first
reputed wealth of Miss Estelle.
Mac had fallen head over heels in love with Clara, but she did not
give him any extraordinary hope of success; and, in fact, viewing
the state of his affairs, from the ground upon which I stood, I ad-
vised him several times to give up the game, and retire from the field ;
but he obstinately persisted, and informed me at the same time that
his view of my case with Estelle was -very similar to the one I ex-
pressed in regard to his-and to tell the trith I did not meet with
that success which vanity bid me expect.
Driving up in a borrowed buggy, I received* Mac into the vehicle,
and giving the reins to the dappled gray, which I had borrowed from
Colonel Peter Wadd, with whom, gentle reader, I hope to make you
better acquainted before you close this combined work of art, nature,
and fill up the gap, dear reader, according to the views you
entertain of the case, as old Jutige Horsecatcher remarked to the jury
when the principle witness in a law-suit took a fit in court. Giving
the reins to the gray we let him slide, whilst the glorious beauty of
the evening chained our tongues and we forgot our plans for the evo-
Ining in gazing upon the glories of a summer evening landscape in the
South.  Over head rolled in silvery majesty that queen of night
,hich has so often turiied coldly away from our poetical supplications.

I-

,
t
' 4e
F

I.

V

$PC

REDSTICE ; OR,

.89

It was almost as light as day, and as we rolled along, the cool,
shining, white, dusty road, stretched away before us, hedged in be-
tween two green walls of Cherokee rose not unlike a splendid white
carpet fringed with glossy-green fleckered along the border with the
white stars of the hedge-rose.
Away to our right and left stretched the magnificent fields of cane
and cotton, the rows of which opened and shut as we rolled silently
on as if by magic; far over to the right, a dark fringe of woods
closed the scene, on that' side, along. in the dark shade of whioh,
gleamed the bright ball of fire of the still-hunter, as he proceeded
along the verge of the woods previous to disappearing amid its gloomy
depths to scare up and slay the gentle deer; on our left, as far as the
eye could reach, glittered the silver bosom of the Father of Waters,
which here makes ond of those gigantic detours, called bends by the
residents on its banks, and breasting its glittering surface came the
booming, tearing steamer, under-whose bows the waters rolled up and
dashed away in broad curves, that swiftly spread in her wake, until
they dashed tumultuously-*against the banks on either side.  But,
here we are at the gate of Old Smythe's semi park.
"Now, mind your ps and qs, Mac, you know how dratted mad you
made the old tiger the last time we were here,.by that foolish obser-
vation of yours, 'that a man didn't no more mind killing his neighbor
down South than sgiashing a flea.''"
\ "Mind your own business, Hal; I've got a grand dose of flattery
for him to night-the old Goliah."
We were very coldly welcomed that evening by all hands, it seemed
to me; 'though Mac dashed away with his confounded flattery as
.usual. Early as we came, however, there were two before us, one
of them a young, and, drat his picture, a very handsome lawyer,
named Hall, who came out from Lemonskeclnr on purpose, as he said,
to teach us two suckers the code of practice,. in the manner of getting
a rich wife. He put up at the same hotel with us, and nearly run
Mac crazy with his evident popularity with the softer sex. The other
was Dick Foxy, who had taken a great notion for cutting me-out with
Miss Estelle. We were rather a constrained party, with the exoep-
tion of Mac and Hall, who set up to Miss Clara in a manner very
indicative of a desire to outdo each other. I was seated at the center-
table with Dick and Miss Estelle, who soon got over her coldness, and
.with a watchful eye on papa, gave me some little assurance that she
wished Dick and the balance of the party were anywhere else than in
that particular room. By her manner she showed an evident fear of
drawing upon her head her father's anger, by giving me any more
attention than mere politeness required; and I watched the old man
like a hawk to discover if possible the cause of his very evident
distrust of Mac and myself.
In the course of the conversation, Mac commenced bragging about
his watermelon eating qualities, and went on with some of his, side.
splitting anecdotes, relative to the good old times when he was aboy,
and could indulge without the fear of the law before his eyes, im


I

jifmpitng the fene of the neighbor# knd appropriating their largest,
finest, and beet watermelons to his own use. As he rattled away, I
noticed a peculiar knowing smile steal over the faces of Hall and
Dick, and also a portetous cloud gathering about the contracting
brows of Old Smythe; the young ladies turned pale, and Mae noticing
the -change In the demeanor of the party, involuntary ceased in the
naidst of a laughable story-at which, howeVer, no one ventured to
'rack a-smile.
Old Mr. Smythe rose up and made some severe remark about
' what's bred in the bone is sure to come out in the flesh," and
hobbled olit of the room. After setting a few moments, the party
laboring, very evidently, under constraint, we arose and took our
leave, together with Hall and Dick. As we emerged out on to the.
spaoieus gallery in front of the house, we discovered that if we did
hot hurry up our horses we should have to ride home, in the rain, for
a sudden change had come over the face of nature, and deep, heavy
clouds obscured the heavens on high, and the muttering thunders as
they rolled and rumnbled overhead warned us to "cut stick and travel."
It was so dark yoa could not seO yout- hand before your face, and I
bstened to the buggy which was standing in company-withefall's
before the gate. Getting in, I took up the reins and impatiently
awaited the arrival of Mac, who unaccountably staid behind. One,
two minutes rolled away, and the single occupant of the other buggy
began to "cuss " in Dick Foxy's well known manner, and at a rate
which indicated if Hall was not forthcoming in ten seconds, he'd have
io foot it home. The pattering drops began to fall when the two
worthies made tracks for the buggies; my companion sprang in, and
drawing up the "leather role " in front, we give old gray the rein and'
-Away we went.
The rain came down in perfect floods, and we neither of us spoke a
word. for the first mile or so, when my companion broke the silence
In a joyous tone.
"Dick, old fell," said he, "its all right, as sure as my name is
aIl I'v got her. What do you think she did, by the holy poker?"
Of course I made no answer and he rattled on.
9' Well, sir, as soon as we got to the door, Miss Estelle bid us good
night, and so didClara, and I thought they both went in the house,
but by jings, she came up to me and drew me up behind the honey-
suckle vine, and of her own accord gave me the sweetest kiss-Oh,
erackee! Oh, jemima I just to think, and I would have left there to
night, doubting that she loved me,.-"-what a fool I was. And aint
she cunning ?  Them two sucker lawyers aint no whar. I'll be
hanged if I don't eome out Sunday and propose. - And I'll tell you
what, Dick, you shall be my overseer. Why don't you answer, con-
found you.--Here we are though at the' hotel; come around to-.
hirrow soon, ahd we'll talk over aboUt-jou know what! Say! hold
on, I believe that confounded Mao was ietening behind the pillar of
4he gallery. Well, he didn't hear anything consoling anyhow.--Good
might., old fell."

Bidding him good night in a muttered-tone, for I was a little dis-
appointed at his easy success over Mac, I drove 'round to the stable,
gave the h'rse, and buggy over to the boy in attendance, and, dripping
Wet, hurried up to our room.
When I entered, Mac was sitting before the fire in an easy chair,
apparently absorbed in deep thought; his black eyes glittered,
however, as I approached the fire, and he asked me in a tone of
indecision:
" Why did you halloo so, Hal, when you drove round to the stable ?
I never heard such a yell in my life. If I hadn't known it was you,
I could have sworn it was Dick Foxy-it sounded just like that whoop
he gave when Bill Sand's horse fell down and took a fit after beating
his sorrel. You aint so mighty glad at my success are you as to yell
and halloo in that manner ?"
" What are you talking about, Mac ?" I exclaimed,-"you didn't
ride home with me."
"The dickens I didn't; who did then ?" he exclaimed, jumping up
and upsetting the chair.
" Why, somehow or other Hall made a mistake and got in the same
buggy with me."
"Then, I rode home with Dick Foxy, and it is all over now; I
suppose, I'm did and done for, that's certain !"
"Why, what took place between you and Dick, anything wrong ?"
"I should think thei-e was something wrong. The fact is, Ifal, I
am the unluckiest devil born; ten minutes ago I was at the hight of
human happiness; and now my happiness is alloyed by one of the
most miserable accidents it has ever been my lot to encounter. You
see, I!must have got in Dick's buggy, and Hall got in with you; and
I, thinking I was talking to- you, let out my secret, and, of course, by
to-morrow night, it wjll be all over the country, and Old Smythe will
never let me enter his doors again, let alone Miss Clara, who will
never believe me when I explain how it got out." Here a light began
to steal over my bewildered senses.
. " Go on, Mac, out with it man; between us both we'll manage to
set the matter rioht."
"If you set thi affair right you're smarter by far than I am. Let
me explain first, and then let's see what you think of it. You see,
when we came out, I thought to myself, now or never, and waiting
until yqu all were gone out, I drew Miss Clara behind the vines that
draped the gallery, and gaue and got the three streetest kisses that ever.
Dreamed of. In getting in the buggy, such was my confounded
hurry, that I triumphantly let it all out to Dick, who I thought was
you-confound it! That was the reason he whooped and yelled so
when I got out of the buggy; but I suppose it woudd have all leaked
Otit, fot when I came off the gallery I stumbled over that slink _Iall
who was mean enough td watch me."
Here I couldn't control my feelings and literally roared out. Mac
looked wild at me, and r-etnarking that "he didn't see anything funny
to laugh at," angrily went to bed.

Il

I

I.

40  ~nf~t~cK OR,                                         CE19~ IN THlE SOUTH.          4

40

C       ORS

41

f.
t,

x
S


4

42

SaDsTICK; Ob,)

Of course he saw nothing funny to laugh at, and I, keeping my
secret, went to bed, and choking myself with the corner of the pillow
case, laughed internally until my silent cachinnations shook the bed
and room-Mac angrily tossing in bed and cursing me for everything
he could think of.
The next morning early, I went over to see Dick, and we, after
laughing over the matter until our sides ached, mutually promised not
to mention the matter to any one, but bide our time to let the thing
out at the opportune moment.
CHAP TXR XI.
"Faint heart ne'er won fair lady."
IN spite, of all our promises of secrecy, the story was too good to
keep, and before Hall's promised Sunday came the thing was all over
the country. Of course Hall and Mac ripped around like blazes, but
that only made the matter worse for them; they swore it was an
infernal lie, but that added fuel to the flame, and Mac at last urged
me to accept an invitation of long standing from a friend of ours, to
go out and spend a few weeks in hunting and fishing on his place.
So, early one fine morning we packed up our traps, and, again in
company with Hall and Dick, (who were also invited to the same
place), we left for the hospitable mansion of our bachelor friend
. olonel Petr Wadd, Esq.
As his residence was some six miles from Redstick, and two from
(Id Smythe's, Esq., we were situated just right, both in respect to
ourting, and attending to calls made upon us by our few clients both
in town and in the country. With large airy chambers; every luxury
in the way of food and refreshment that could be procured'; enough
crvants tramping at each of our heels to form a body-guard ; pleasant
Soinpany, and an agreeable, hospitable host, you'd better believe we
enjoyed ourselves in our holiday and relief from the contracted rooms
and dusty streets of Redstick.
The first day we spent in the woods hunting we were forced to
leave the Colonel at home, a4 he did not feel well enough to accompany
us, and would not hear to our remaining at home on his account.
Striking into the woods at the-back of the Colonel's field, we pitched
into the squirrels, and interrupted many a happy scene of courtship
between the furry little aniftials with our' leaden messengers.
Mac was lucky enough to down a splendid wild gobbler, and in a
few moments we found ourselves in the midst of a splendid flock of
them. Bang! bang! went our double-barrels, and the noble birds
had been so little hunted and were so fat, thatin a quarter of an hoar
we had downed twenty-four of them.
This may surprise many incredulous! ones, but the fact is that deer
and turkies are as plentiful in the southern portion of Louisiana as
gver they were in the wilds of the West. In one instance a gentleman

I

SCENES IN THE SOUTH.

t

43

who ran away from the yellow fever, then raging in the city where
be dwelt, killed twenty-four deer in twenty-five days, and that too
within ten miles of a city of four thousand inhabitants. But this is
immaterial to our subject,
Heavily laden with game, we stopped' to rest behind a noble field
of sugar-cane, which we ascertained,-from one of the field hands,
belonged to our very respected old friend Mr. Smythe; and after
-resting ourselves and eating as much sugar-cane as we wished, Mac
disconnected his finest gobbler, and taking out his pencil wrote on the
back of his card, his "compliments to Mr. Smythe, and begged as a
favor his acceptance of part of the result' of the day's hunting."
Attaching it by a string to the gobbler's neck, he called a negro and
was proceeding "to send him up to the house, when we stopped the
boy, pulled out our cards, and followed his example. Leaving the
negro to make his way to the house with the four. turkeys, we
proceeded on our way home, confidently expecting to receive an
invitation to Mr. Smythe's in the course of the following day, to come
over and assist in towing away the above-mentioned game.
The next morning early, as we were sitting on the Colonel's spacious
gallery, we observed Mr. Smythe coming up the road in his buggy,
which stopped in front of the gate; and, as if in answer to Hall's
whispered inquiry of us, "as to in what manner the surly old bugger
would express himself in inviting us over to dinner,"' Old Smythe
broke out on us with:
"You are a pretty set of gentlemen are you not, you set of cow-
ardly rascals! If my legs would permit me (looking angrily down at
his gouty appendages) I would get out and hide you out of your skins,
you miserable scoundrels. Drive on, John, I perceive that they can
not take an insult-.rif any of you can screw your cowardly hearts to
the sticking point, I am at your service and, by the Eternal, if one
of you does not take up this matter and give me satisfaction, I will
cowhide you all through the streets of Rcdstick."
So saying, the old gent rolled off in his buggy leaving us com-
pletely dumfounded.
In the hope that by sending over the Colonel to apologize for
anything we might unfortunately have done to disturb the harmony
of the old rascal, we adjourned into the house to hunt him up.
Upon informing him of what had occurred, he at once laid the
cause to the fact of the old fellow's just hearing of Mac and Hall's
kissing serape, and he advised us all 4o steer clear of the old gent
until his anger cooled off, as he would. most assuredly attempt to put
his threat in execution. With a merry laugh we adjourned to break-
fast, where we feasted off of'one of'the glorious fat turkeys; twelve
of which we had sent as presents to our friends in town, for fear cf
their spoiling if we attempted to keep them on hand until gradually
devoured.
Toward the close of the day, as we were sitting in the same broad
piazza, from which we viewed the old fellow's i potent anger in the
morning, his boy John came up with a note for the young sontlemen,


44

REDSTIOK; OR,

which Hall, expecting it to be a challenge, passed over to each of us
in succesion; and all of us refusing 'toropen it, he handed it to Colonel
Wadd, who deliberately opening it read the contents, after which
bursting into a roar of laughter, he dropped it on the carpet, and laying
Limsel' full length on the sofad lie almost went into convulsions of
laughter.
Picking up the note  was almost thunderstruck at reading:
Messrs. Hall, Foxy , Co.
IN JoHN RANDOLPH SMYTHE Dr.,
To 24-Turkeys, at $4 per pair, -  -   -    -   $48.00,
Payment immediately expected.
Was it possible-had we killed off twenty-four tame turkeys, and
was this the upshot of our much-boasted-of hunt!
No wonder the old fellow took the trouble to ride around on pur-
pose to cuss at us. And then the idea of our sending him four of his
own tame turkeys as a present, was too much for our risible muscles,
and in spite of the prominent $48 staring us in the face, we were
forced to burst out into peal after peal of laughter.
fThe upshot of the matter was, John was sent home with a note,
stating that one of the party would be over in the evening and settle
for the turkeys, and as no refusal came, I went over after sunset with
the stated amount of cash to pay up.I
The number of apologies I made, and semi-insults I calmly took,
would be of no interest to the reader; suffice it to say, the old fellow
was at last so far mollified as to request me to make his apologies to
the other three and there let the matter drop.
He took the money, however, and we considered ourselves well off
in getting out of the scrape as easy as we did, although he did get
four of the turkeys and we had to pay him twice the amount we could
have 'bought them for in Redstick.
CHAPTER XII.
ONE morning I was summoned to town, to attend to some business
which detained me there for several days.
Whilst busily engaged in writing one eveng, I interrupted
the sudden entrance of an old gent, who generally went by the name
of Uncle Jim.
With a spirit wide awake to' any sort of fun, as he expressed it,
and opposed to all lawing, he had come to request me, "Eff ar'y of
his two boys, Billy and Jack, cum to me fur ar'y advice about suing
each othed, to not have ar'ything to do with it, and to persuade 'em to
drap the thing whar it war."
I told him I would advise them not to have anything to do with
myself or any other lawyer, and if I could prevent them, he might
depend upon it that I would. tut set down, Uncle Jim, and let me'
know what has disturbed the harmony of their intercourse.

m-

SCENES IN THE SOUTH.

4A

" Harmony be dirned," says Uncle Jim; "there never was ar'y bit
uv harmony atween 'em, and thar's a heap less now. However, es I
laughed enough at 'em you mout as well know about it." And he
proceeded to inform me that having a job of kettle-setting, (setting
sugar kettles in brick), he had started out with his two apprentiees
for the plantation where they were to work. It was a bright clear
morning, as the three drove out of town in Uncle Jim's neat one-
horse wagon; but the boys were so enraged at each other that as
Uncle Jim expressed it, "sich another cussin as they kep up I never
hearn in all my life." It appeared that Billy' had placed a defunct
chicken, who had darted this life some days previous, between the
mattresses of Jack' ed, preventing his olfactories, as Jack said, from
refreshing themselves with as sound a nap as the other members of
his body, and keeping him awake, hunting and cussing the came of
the unpleasant smell that pervaded his apartment.
In his turn he had rewarded Billy's assiduous attention to his com-
fort, by dosing his morning stiff 'ner with linseed oil, which caused
such a pleasing sensation in his "innards" that he immediately gazed
at his "breckfist" as it noisily' covered Uncle Jim's coat and pants,
thereby causing that respectable old gent to maake some remarks not
usually found in the Douay version.
Woll, as they say in 'Massasip,' Jack cussed and Billy oussed, until
Uncle Jim could stand it no longer, and breaking forthhe-shouted:
- "Boys, you've worked with me more'n three year, and during that
time I've hearn more cussin', more quarlin' an more noise, and seed
less fighten' than I ever deemed two varmints could be guilty of. Now,
its got to stop, and ef I hear one word more you got to fight it out
when we get to the Colonel's."
Of course this only added fuel to the flame, and -although theyhad
exhausted nearly all of the cussin' vorcabulary before they reached the
Colonel's, still they were in a splendid humor for a free fight, whea
they reached the plantation. As they drove up the old Coloneliob-
served that something was wrong, and being made acquainted with
the cause, proposed a general shake hands all around. But no, their
blood was up, and Jim swore that fight they must, and that.-right off
too, as he wanted no more oussin' and wreulin'. But here a difegl.
ty intervened. The Colonel was opposed to fist fighting, and as for
dueling, Billy would fight with nothing but small swords. and Jack
wanted muskets, trigger to, trigger, and foot to foot, The, old Color
nel had but one musket, and. one sword on the place, sud things were
in a worse state than ever, when Uncle Jim, after gaming abstractly at
pile of fire-brick lying before the sugar-house, suddenly brightened up,
.and made a proposition which struck all hands as singularly apposite
to the occasion. It was for dach, of the combatants to strip ff, a.d
catching each other by the left hand, to rub each other's hams with a
uaarse fire-brick, held in their right, until one or 'the other cried,
" Hold, enough." Things were duly arranged, and at it they went,
the Colonel acting as Jack's second, and Uncle Jim as Billy's.
After gently rubbing, each other for a moment, Jack gave a sharp

.h

I


46                      REDSTICK ; OR,
rub,, which walked into Billy's hide, and provoked a shrill squeal and
desperate exertion on the part of the gentleman to reciprocate the
favor. In a short time skin began to peel and " taller" to come off
in a manner which if agreeable to the Colonel and Jim, as expressed
by their cachinnations, was death to the two gents who were giving and
receiving satisfaction in this novel manner. At it they went, now on
one side, now on the other, until wearied with pain and exertion, they
with- one accord ceased their bloody work.
" Are you satisfied ?" asked the Colonel, Es soon as h? could com-
press his mouth into speaking compass.
"No sir-ee" shouted Billy, springing to his fe t; "give me another
brick."I
" Mine's smooth," yelled Jack, as facing his adversary they each re-
ceived 'a fresh brick from Uncle Jim, who absolutely yelled and
squealed with laughter, for the bricks this time were literally covered
with cayenne pepper, which Uncle Jim carried in his pocket as an
anti-cholera specific.
" Give the word, Uncle Jim," they both shouted, as they stood
brick in hand ready to "pitch in and git skeezed."
"Wait a minute," shouted Jim, "ha ! haw ! ha-u-u ! Oh Lordy ! ha!
haw! git readyr! haw! haw! one-haw! oh haw! ha! two-he haw! oh
haw! three!'' he spasmodically yelled as he fell sprawling backward
bursting his what-dye-call'ems in his frantic efforts to yell all over.
Two or three scientific passes were made in the air, and then dowD
came the bricks upon their bloody hams, and at it they went again.
"Take him off!" shouted Jack after one or two rubs.
"Nuff!" yelled Billy.
"Nuff," they both yelled, and letting the bricks drop, away they
went for the river, shouting and yelling at every jump, "Fire! fire!
ice ! fire !" followed by Uncle Jhn and the Colonel who, though both
tall runners, were distanced in the race.
When they arrived at the bank, there stood the two duelists, up to
their middles in the water, squealing and hallowing for oil, cotton and
every other sedative they could remember. After hard begging they
waded out until the water left their hips, when the air coming in con-
tact with their peppered hides forced them to squat into the cooling
element.
How they got them out, Uncle Jim forgot to tell me, but one thing
certain, they never fought agiin. Billy swore when he got out of bed
three weeks afterward,-that Stagg &amp; Shays' brand was distinctly vis.
ible on his hips,, and that his hams were as well cured as any in the
Cincinnati market. The brand was probably the name of the maker
of the brick; but Jack swore he smelt fried ham every time he looked
downward.

SCNS IN THE SOUTH.                47

CHAPTER XIII.
Life's like a summer cloud that hides
The su's bright face. 1ut sceie Elike these
Break here and there a gildedl golden spot
Through which he shoots his glorious rays.
-IBuf ERADIIr.
A PlC NIC in the woods.-Come, girls, get your bonnets-sun bon-
nets, mind you-leave home your little fairy fragments of Tuscan
straw-they 11 never do: "for briar and brush and thorny brake"
will soon make sad havoc with the little beauties.
'Twas the Fourth of July, and our little party were not a whit
envious of the fun going on in Redstick, as announced by the cracking
of fire-worka and ever and anon the sharp quick sound of the "Red-
stick Invincibles'" piece of artillery, which blazing away was answered
by the' cheers of the "ardent spirited spectators," aid by the lou4,
crashing echoes of the woods, hills and valleys around.
We were bound for the woods, and had a clear bill of lading for
that port, with our full cargo of fun fully insured, and a copy of
the policy fully imprinted upon the face of every laughing beauty
present.
You northerners, whose ideas of southern summer life are compre-
liended in the fancy that man's whole duty during the burning days,
is to protect himself from sunstroke, and at night from the legionary
assaults, of hordes of well-disciplined, life-taking musquitoes, would
that you'dhave been with us' and laved for awhile your burning brow
in the cool sea breeze, that coming gaily over the pine-clad hills of
the "Florida parishes," bowed the tall beflowered heads of the giant
magnolia in theecooing, rustling acknowledgement of its pleasant
embrace.
Our little party comprised some twenty in number, of which by far
the greater portion were of the fairer, softer sex.
Dick Foxy, Mac, Hall and Colonel Purse (Miss Duchapell6s
cousin) were of the party, and the rivalry between them all (including
your humble servant) to cut each out (that is the most comprehensive
term I can think of) was most intense.
At length the belles of the party having quietly selected their
beaux, and we the disappointed (for Estelle had given her basket,
vail, etc., to Dick, and of course I was of that number) having offered
our services to, whoever would have them, set out for the scene of
our pic nie, which was to be on the banks of a lovely little lake some
four miles from town.
Our course was through the woods and we proceeded happily and
gaily along, singing to the sound of a "light guitar " which Colonel
Purse, "a la troubadour," carried hung by a broad blue 'ribbon around
his neck.
From all appearancesthis gentleman had made up his quarrel wiith
Miss Duchapelle, and they were as loving as turtle doves.
A prominent trait in his character I soon discovered to be. a vain-


LED5TICK[ GU,
glorious habit of boasting, which, whether engendered by his "prow-
ess " in Mexico where be had earned hi) title, or from the fact that
he'd been on an European tour and seen more of the "elephant"
than the rest of us, was sufficiently distasteful to-all of us "mascu-
lines " who could. not view without envy the manifest pleasure with
which the girls swallowed his recountal of " haps by land and sea."
"Oh! la, 'you really didn't kill him, Colonel," exclaimed Mies
Clara, as she interrupted that individual in the midst of a long story
concerning a Mexican whom he'd had hung for steang a"4
tobacker," or for some other capital offense, whilst he commanded th
"Tigers " in Mexico.
"4Well, Miss," responded the Colonel, twirling his moustaches of
which, confound him, he had a most luxuriant black crop, "we were
forced to, um-make an example of eome of those greasy individuals.
Why, 'my dear Miss, when I was beset by seventeen of them in the
Chingaringo pass, do you think if I had not slain the-um-beg palr'
don ladies-reskels----that they would have had mercy on me ?-Most
assuredly not!"
At this juncture, we came to a halt upon.the gentle grassy slope of'
one of those aboriginal mounds which lie scattered as mementos of a
by-gone race over the broad highlands of Louisiana.
Our resting "spell " was enlivened by -a couple of sgngs from the
Colonel, accompanied by the everlasting guitar, after which he sang
an impromptu (ding gon bim, he possessed almost every accolplish-
ment) composed and dedicated to the girls on the spot-
This capped the climax, and the girls were leaving us and clustering
around him to hear one more, oh only one more, of those sweet songs,
when a wild yell resounded through the crowd accompanied by louo
shrieks from the girls, who scattered and fled from th Colonel in every
direction. We hastened up to him as he stood on tiptoes, one arn4
grasping the tree at the roots of which he hag been sitting, the other
holding with a tenacious grasp something in his pants about the
region of his knees as far out from his pedals Is his Paris pants would
admit, and shrieking;
' Great God!! a snaik! Help me quick, or it will bite! quick.!
quick!
"Pull off his pants," shouted Mac..
"Retire, ladies, retire! " shouted Dick, which they did instanter-
And then, and only then, we proceeded to trip the gentleman, for
notwithstanding. hispcries to never mind the ladies, but off with his
pants, we selfishly kept an eye open to number one. and waited, UnAti
they had disappeared amid the tree-s.
$eated on the ground, Dick tugged at one leg and Mac at the
other, whilst the Colonel in an agony of fear kept his grasp tightly
on the reptile-
At length the pants came' off, the Colonel let go, and Mac, after
esperate shaking, shook :out 9f one of the vacated legs a  iqle tree-
frog, which Hall, in ozpectation of ita being a- ten feet rtlorsnake
atileast, mercilessly sacrified with a big hikoryatiek-

s
)
:{
c'
.

4W,

'The shouting and hallo3ing which this unexpected " turn up "
brought on, enticed the girlsfro  their cover,for which they again
broke upon observing the  oloel in lis ,drawers, pants inhandr
cutting dirt for-" anywhere but here just then."
After he got out of sight the 'ladies were recalled, and we proceeded
en without our "hero of an hundred fights."
'Arriving on the chosen ground, we found the table-cloth spread
and viands already for disposal; .they having been sent. ont before
as with a couple of negro boys to serve at this-'nature's table."
That dinner! Oh,. that dinrer!- The less we  speak of it the
better, for various reason-one, and one only of which. I will men
tion is, that your humble servant imbibed. so- much "elder wine,'
that somehow or other when he got up from the tsale, he mistook
an; old cow for one .of the young ladies present, and offering her his
arm, came mighty nigh viewing the country, from the tops of her
horns.
The little lake was surrounded by ,trees, whose boughs, covered
with flowers, diooped into the still calm waters, which rippled when:
the soft winds moved the gree! pendants, as if they smriled at the
kisses of their flower-covered branches.
From the green sward whereiwe sat arose in solitary majesty a
giant, rugged magnolia, one arm of which stretched over the silent
lake and laved 'its- tip in, its cool waters ; this branch was literally,
covered with "bay flowers," and could be reached either by ascend
ing the 'tree, or' swinging up into the branch, by means of a large
grape-vine, which,itaking root at the foot of the magnolia, reached
over the waters in a graceful curve up into the branches.
At the request of Miss Estelle, I ascended the vineohand over hand,
to procure some of the magnificent flowers for. her to weave into-.-
do not now remember what;--.but, anyhow, I had obtained them, ba
in coming down, just before getting clear'of the branches, my coat
tails caught in them and there I was,--in a fix,.and a crowd, of 'bright
eyes upon me, whose vision however was, dimmed by tears brought on,
from excessive laughter.
I could not go back, and to come down was impossible ; three times
I essayed to do the..former, and three ties I failed. And once
made a desperate efort to tear my coat tails loose from their en,
tanglement, by frantic sayings of my 'body, but it was no go. Oh,
how dratted inean I felt. I hallooed to Hall to get a long pole and
entwine my coat tails; and aa fast. as his laughter would admit, hq
posted for the wogds to proeura one, and we saw no more of hira
uatil ths agair was alLover, 'finished, and complete,..
Dick was more fortunate, and procuring a long eneAhe thiust it ups.
but it would only reach'mb and ao further ;--sticking it into otgof
my side pockets, the dirn rascalshowever, despite my yells, ,entrpaM
and cursing, for I cursed like blazes, proceeded to twist,  'r
until I thought my back was breaking. IU, n ad me so 'nad as
letago one hand to grapple the. .polo, tethether slipped, andVherp-lw
hung suspended by the; coat tails   min iair.            0
4

)

BCENAS5 IN T1$E 9WUT.


SCENES IN THE SOUTH.

51

Oh, Stiche!-little did .1 believe  when you recommended the
stren th of that cloth,-how soon I would put its merits to the test. It
stratehed fearfully, however, and lag I looked down into the glassy
lake, I thought-a heap. Suddenly a bright-idea struck me, and after
a desperate tug I removed one arm from the sleeve, and swinging
around I caught hold of the limb, and then proceeded to remove my
arm from the other sleeve. I was free. Hand over hand I c01
down, and falling upon the sward, I lay the maddest, most furious
being that ever clumb a tree.
By this time. Hall had arrive4,-and after stating that he'd been
almost to Redstick without finding a pqle, and as he'd as yet laughed
none, he set down and proceeded to gratify his risible muscles, by a
little extension, in which he was politely joined by the whole party.
After resting my stiffened arns Ilumb back, unwound my coa, and
coming down we set ouxt for home.
Dick would now and then praise the quality of the cloth, of which
my coat was manufactured, and set the whole party to laughing at my
expense,," by requesting me to give him my tailor's card."
1 We had nearly reached the edge of the woods, when Miss Ducha-
pell, pointing with her tiny parasol to a large clump of bays which
grew on the boughs of an immense magnolia, remarked "that it my
unfortunate adventure had not cast a shade over the adventurous
spirits of the gentleman, she would request that some knight of prow-
ess and to fame unknown would' ascend and procure her those flow.
ers."  We all, however, shook our head save Mr. Dick, who, remark.-
ing that "coats were unfortunate" proceeded to denude himself of,
that garment and with a wonderful facility dexterously clumb up the
rounded sides of the "monarch of the forest." lie had proceeded
by the aid of the lateral branches to the hight of some fifty feet,'
*hen he came to a place where, for some twenty feet there were no
.branches. However, as the body of the tree had here grown small
enough, he proceeded to work his way up, by grasping his arms
around the trunk .and "inch" himself up by degrees. Encouraged
by the approving shouts from below, he had reached within about
grasping distance of a'limb when his progress was stayed by one of.
those immense clumps which often mar the smooth columnar appear-
ance of large trees. Making a desperate exertion, he proceeded to
surnount the difficulty, and had reached the middle of it when the
rugged concentric rings catching in his, clothes :stayed his further
progress. Encouraged however by the shouts from below, he made
.a desperate effort, when lo! his unmentionables burst asunder and a
broad streak of white, relieved the shining black of what was just be.
fore'~iihote pair of panb&amp;
The scene below was indescribable, the ladies that didn't faint pu I
le quartet-horses, and in a few minutes we niasculines were left in
4udispultd possession of the field I
Dik cane down after, that feat, and with as good grace as he could
asgume joined mi the shouting and laughing, when some one requested,
the "card of his tailor."  rttig on his coat and hiding the "cre

Vf
I
F I

vadse' with ia 'bad sash 'of mobs, We put out and soon overtook, ie
ladies who assumed a seribis look as if nothing  ha4 taken Pla%.
'We did not speak of the accidentt, ad a4" for them:
Oh no, they never mentioned it
CH A P T E R . XIV
He was a victim o Unjust supicion."R
How To0G0CT A Rica Wirs.
AWOKE early one morning and looking out   to the street was
y stunned by te noise and cla      Everybody seemed to be
out of 'doors;, and' carts, buggiesWagons ind vehicles of every"
cription were backed up to the front doors and men, women and ci
dren busily engaged in loading them with every description of house-
hold goods. Dressing in hot haste, I hastened down into the bari
to inquifeinto the calxse of what seemed to me a desetion of
the-town. There was no one in the 'bar-room, and going out ino te
street d stopped  man goig by wihthree lookin-glasses, a feather
bed, and a  eryi     child in his arms, and request  m to relieve
fears anad tell me' whatf was the mate''
Caller feder." was all the reply I received, aind I oon 'foimun t
from some one not so pressing engaged, that "old br. Dobbs had
been eto Lemonskebzer, took the ?ever, come back, and 'no'tis sPrea
ing every where."  '    ''                  ~,tssra,
This was bad news to Mac anid me, neither of whom was apclirad
and e were extremely rejoiced when a buggy was sent to 't o
from Colonel Wadd's with 'a note requesting us to pack up and conw
out.as soon as wbcould
You better believe we did not neglect to aceept' his invitation,,iana
friend.     'ewerejoying' the hospitality of our warm-hearle
Nearly -all ol" our acquaintances' 'were Iteiqoraril,' residing iithe
neighborhood, and whilst all was deathrand' terror in the n eh  $n
rlaA
villages, we thbughtlessly spent th n time pleadgntly. enon' h'
Hall and Dick were near eighbors;and together we Were eozistkap
visitors at Mr. Smythe's.
dIt semd otron tohme,ilho ever'th' in ai few weels time 'Ma
-avid 1fboth lIost ,ground -'0110h i"Aikdnd l hgaie  srti1
lost in the graces of both the old'n'and  asrapigyrl&amp;a
tOnenmght, whilst' il four of us were ov' tte oloian's houi
cie  thied to 'torm, nd the old gent ls  oi
force us to stay all night.,'""   '"".
Theixt tnording upon- akeing, I oi4ed" th      Wndo     h
chamber wherein Mac and I slept., and ioiU~jt   lie'sl IAf  cpV'.
ered *lth the slep and seeds bf t   elbn&amp;  eand thtt9 rd
site our window Was strewa with 4the rkis   O
ac that the last occupants of our chamber musi haie had a' isW1

tCi={
I
[fIf'
i

50

REDSTICK .; OR,


.
;
,
"  t
.t
.{
_
r ,  _
t
.t

pnp"   ig,   ipejon , I cloed the window, and we proveded t
vpwe     0 ,'lpgingV sound9f9 the breakfast-bell.1
tiie table we oti  tiA ihe old man was in one of his surLy
moods again, and 'the arriva 'of a little negro boy from the garden
with the intelligencd'thitifde tief had et fift big mountain sprout,"
almost set the old gentleman to raging.
"Gentlemen," he said, "I sent all the way to Old Virginia for
those seed. and it is the only fruit I can with safety eat, and by all
the powers if some .scrkpu dor'it 1reak into 'my garden and destroy
more watermelons every night tiag ten mey 9ould eat. It may be
negroeswttoe is,btt if it is any one who bears the name of gen.-
n let him lokopt,. ,                  .    ,,
e all' expresse  our indignatignat tii8 gros g9utrage, nnd I Ak-
ed him it must eweroe who committed this ,ngentlemanly act;
oute sh'ok hi  hea4o   'ging  Indlcan idly stated:
When ~'entlemen ehoo.  tame turkeys for Wild ones,.and then nake
ents o them t9 the owpr? entIgme would 8tea4 watermelons.'
e all started tp .oir 'feet anyone, aw  all asred im it was not
and at the same time we a dgited each other most'awfully.
'I ha vebeen inrormued,' contaucd the old cuss, "from good author
t4at, you are; ad  aged inti- affair, a4 not doubting your
*4rd-no not in the least, (oh Ao )-how would you lke t'o accept an
vitatiop to remain at my 4Que 'one or two weeks and, assist me in
cati  IIhm  _the Sief "7
e all t red at this rovel prp6sa, but all heartily accepted it,
however, and sending over for our baggage we proceeded to make the
t of our time in, striving tog n 't  god graces of the old man
the two girls.
"'That evening, the old fellow ,set an p mpse man-trap in the gar,
Wer, and was rewarded for his pains the next, morning byinding his
pt Durham heifer, with que leg broke,,the sle occupant of the trap.
how the  ld (elloi;stprmed.  I vlould ,not, have, lbeen in tha
owt'shoes fr a pretty sum, if the oid gent had come acro   hi.
$anger thau wl   p bp fact that every morning there as, a fresh
oris in fro.q    ,or, chaber.
On 'the nrang    bs   ieptthe rap affair,    ac' and Iheld a'
#i of   or and caw   our opelusions, which will i A   out
mTe details.
ne   f fthe first 'fruit ogq ourconsultation was to, sen4 the little
nP  er"     to w      s te  r. Smythe and request him to MOme
o our chamber, whic   iMediatel di'
"          qu Aa ohaye gar#--, read- perhapA see cases
1,   andcs   ear    undito be innocent."
an        rwar
-   r "j pig }   v           a agg it'that I hae' atg g  qgguuitan.
e  g     bg   yg--
levigune*a}y~       '+Y
,ie                        w  and  f your suspicions age
9 evlue i       yop, you are not the cross, rabi4
o1imo              qU  r

rr
;
.  ,
_
t
t
:
:

SCENI IN 'nE OdUTH.
'th  ld fellow gazed vabbitly out of thi e  ind 0   s in 1l in d4
thoftyhe did not iotio&amp; the rind Which ainde ne  piclonis thl
hm kne*-abo lt the1i pi-evios to dfY calling his at mention  the stai
ling criminating fact of their being there.
SWell, gentlemen, I dd :rit know whethdrto raisee your hotiest
Otiidi' 6r to euif  ybdr deep rascality. It will ill come out? ntd
thit and ,ot till then, Will I proceed to wreak hy v6ngearinc oli thV
infernal scoundrel."
'9ome on  may ask why we dwlt; under the roof of a man w
suspicioned us niost unjustly.' I ill inform him that the spirite,0
fun, and a desire stimulated by a  riosit 6f adoertaihing *ho. the
depredators *ere detertninted us tb stiy an lihgh dbri tl eold mani'*
talimriidts insiridations
Early the next morning I opened thy *i4dkM:to see if there w#o
anymore evidnded  of $gUilt sprid over the yad, and to my great
joy the rinds hatd diepoaredi,
At the breakfast-table, we were enO  by the old gehtiti an, wh n
just s I was cohgratuilating him ipdtn the cesati' of the distur
dance, the little nigger who ran errinidO' odrfthe a;rdPr e i1t1e in, And00
*ith th e  hits of his eyes rolled ' tWntil Aothing els As viSible,
exclaimed:
4"MassaI;de ietoie azIft lie eat hole :art-Iad di iMne, enh
leebe fpieeaIhe tilh" l th6 ical' Ad heheld ip a allde b cdat-tai
about four inches long, and which to my horror everybody ,as well,
igiyuelfrteeghited as bologil to  ete inn iiw frW4 w n away"
of Which" till then I had nokhoIWedgd. -
1e ld genit- turned perfectly livid- with siipessed rage, id t
expected a perfect storm of fury to bdrat uponI "ry devoted head,'
whed he quietly asked m6 if 4aet evidenfcewas alad &amp;irunstantial.
"t is pretty direct "that' some scourdrel i taking a he1 of paid
to ruin ein yourr good opinion; butI ask you only to fodbear you
judgment for ten days longer, and if I do not exonerate'ni self frolia
this serious charge, I will with your leave leave the country."
That night the old rman it seems' kept'wat.brh;and about One o'oldOc
ihe whole household wererdued4 and'i a high  tatef alnm, ath
yelling, howling and barking 'of all the dogb on the plahtation.
Their noise proceeded from the gadedd doriniti our cloth
Mac, Hall, Dick and myself, arnidAttna eqiiilped, Pr6ceeded in hn
haste th th4 seene of the fraf.  -
' As we'opened-The gate that'entiheted th yardwihi the gardeti,
scene broke upon" Our visionn whi6h baesescitor .
The night' was* of' that ehatetr" o f'iidionight 'iiih de.ii h
earth-is first shrouded it 'mist, whichh gadpli lf l '  he 'idi
concentrates and lightens' the bdy of tfle" ,ud, thdii as it rib0-6
fresh weight froin the Bfatin is6rs on hT  fullajti 1t t ait
and Olothes every object With that diM iistitae  *ih ikeV
fancy a tree a giant, or a cow an eleheite.              3
About the 'ezter of the y  wb 66iild 'i;Y e% oOt Wf d
Sdeg,,,fighting  Tyllin'o et the   '  kidanghd byi


fvl

6l '
t
1
IJ
i     "i

I
4i
V
a
S
t
i
f
S
a
t
i
t
R
F
yf        f
K,
qT1
3t
L Y
L
t *_i
Y
i!
tj
x'

M                 REDSpICI( OR..
we of the ;trap, around the middle, andhd by thqMip, a Aalf
prightpgton, The poor devil was fighting them offias wejlba49
cggd, but wthittle success, for dogs are, death on A1"nigger "aad
apparently he was of that class. :
We stood still at the gate, for we were afraid of the dogs ourselves,
nd the old man had got about ten paces in advance of ,us wheohe
discovered. the negro.in,the trap. , Up went ,his gun-to his shoulder,
and ere we could prevent him the deep, heavy booming of his unerring
0. Newton, and the dropping of the poor devi's head on his shoulder,
pd but too well that, the fatal bullet had sped through his brain.
The dogs-spattered in every diyectiop; and we apprpached the trap
gilegtly,. an&amp; AiwaLdly,%rsing the old-man' for his ool, calculating,
deliberate murder, of one who perhaps knew nobetter than tv assuage
bis hunger with the ripr fruits of big neighbor-
The old man, stoq &amp;back as we approached the. dead body; and I
asuie you I did riot ehvy him his thoughts of what nature theywere
Ican not tell, but it, must fall crashing .hprd upon the soul of any
thani---the thoigl&amp;t that through his direct -instrumentality. an unpre
jrnyed soul had, been hurried to meet, his Creator face to, face-.
As we came: up I was gazingabstractedly around, when a hearty
Eurst of laughter came from Dick, who was ahead of .the party.
Astonished and inignant. at his want pf feeling, 1,4urried up, and
ere in the jaws of the trap, stone.dead, lay the:.bestDno' of Mr'
lmythe's pack.
Reader, you may have heard cursing, when somrqone has.mistaken
a fellow's fine hat at a llall and left his own miserable one in itasplace,
You may have been with our army in Mexico, and remarked the. fluent
rapidity with which oaths-Yankee, 'Mezic an&amp;d, mixed;,fell from the
lips of thatbeautiful specimen of human nature the" arny,tea ste;9
u!t I assure you thal all must yield the palm to ,the awful1and; splen-
*erous otihs made use of by Old .Smythe that night,-I cat not,
describe them,.and wouldn't if -I ould.
Vpon' examination Qf the trap, we found the cause of the dog being
caught in it to be, an immense side of bacon, stolen frouthe "store
hoise" and placed secirely on-the spring,;the fence .was,,thmaopened
so as to admit thp dogs, and the leader of, the gang j naping en the
springwas caught roun the middle, and. his paws wavAgin the uir
4nd the otherdogs unmindful of his disasterfighting vpr the meat,
bore such a resemblance to a negro beating ofTift1oe dogs, that the old
manyas perfectly.Jwtiflable iin.killg afify dollar, aog, underIthe
spresson that  was? afi4een undrcdollanegro.
Tlhe next. day was spent Ander tha restraintsa cread by a suspicion
among us all, that ,ome of the rest knew more about woe circumsances
If the case than, they wohld like, to "own up to."
Akargain was, struel among usthat 1Mea- and I should go onwatch
at ,night, and2Nail and Dick he succeeding one, and so on, "turn
tout,until the thief was eaght.
Botll qu yetchin      agif4ileun$1 one night I was so .anxious
uthe igattqr that egul4n't sleep; .after walking about the room

I

SCENES IN TUB,. SOUTH.
until near midnight, I set down in an easy chair and in a few momentA
fell into a fitful slumbe. / .  -
I had not slept long before i heard a ieraping going on, and open.
ing my eyes slowly, I shut them again without moving a muscle of
my face upon observing a little dumpynegro well known on the place
by the name of "Black Jack," his moody temper and taciturn manner
gaininhimthis soubriquet. He was stealing-out of the room with one
of my boots' in his hand, and feigning slumber, when he was gone I
arose and walking across to Old Smythe's chainber, noiselessly awok
him and requested him to come with me.
Dressing in haste, he accompanied me out of his front gate, and
around the orchard until we came to a part of the fence not fifty feet
from the trap, and there we sat and watched. Smythe was so anxious
to catch the rascal that he never uttered a complaint, 'although his
gouty feet twinged him awfully.
We had waited about an hour, when no one appearing, I was about
to commence making excuses for our bootlegs errand, when we observed
a figure stealthily 'stealing across the lot. toward the trap; when he
got within about twenty yards of it he dropped on 'his hands and
knees, behind a row of cabbages, and disappeared.
In a few moments his head appeared along side- the .frame work of
the trap, and then he raised himself up and peered cautiously around-
Satisfied that no one was observing him, e raised his hand,. and the*
his object. was plainly perceptible; it was, to place my boot ito the
trap, and thus fasten the suspicions of Old Smyth  on me in such 4
manner that it would be almost impossible for me to exonerate
myself.
Mr. Smythe wanted to-rm up and make a sure game of it by catchi.
ing the fellow, but I held himdown and in a moment'we were saved
the trouble of running after him, for, the noise we made attraetsd his
attention, and he having his arm.a the leg of the boot, shovedit su4.
denly down on the spring-a diatter of the jaws of the ti-ap and a
suppressed yell from the enterprising individual, informed us that our
game was safe.
,Approaching him openly across the garden, the efforts he made t
get loose would have soon succeeded had I not run up and grabbel
him.- He was powerfully. built and could, have mastered me in, a long
struggle if the old man's yells of triumph had not brough,.t ho whole
household (with the exception of Hall and Dick who had gene to pass
the night at Colonel Wadd's) to the -spot. We got -him down and
timing his hand and feetwe carried him to! thehouse in a kipd of tri .'
umphal procession, and there holding a candle to his face behold--
Mr.'Dick Foxy--caught at last in his own 'trap.
The "old man " turned him;loose deeming, an#d justly too, that hp
was punished enough, and he went back to-Redstick and joined the
Humane Society. As for Mao and I--well, we got along well enough
after that.


CHAPTER XV.
.Tsoe-'8nufterad he then,'d44 h&amp; with ?
Baaiscb-" Yes, writhed in his agony,
Demons grew ma4 in that rear space
In which once beti a losing heart.
'Tis fearful I remorse has claimiedu lim ho
Uo~TO GET A ILMon Wii.
WE have traveled through pleasant fields together, dear reader,
and if you have not enjoyed the flowers of wit that have spangled the
r ges throughout, it has been 'because the tender plants wilted from'
being transplanted by a rough hand from the rank sod upon which
they flourished to the cold ungenial soil upon which they now droop
theif heads.
Bear with me now, as we make a detour from our vagrant course
imnd' pass through one field .upon whose drearlsoil the flowers have
Wilted, thesward has faded, and naught but the cold bleak bosom of
&amp;L.Lother darth greets the cold 'wind of the dark spirit, remorse.
Retoitse! *hat i it? Who that has-felt its subtile hand traversing
his bosom and gathering the leart strings that permeate -his breast
aitil the cords of lie burst neathh the tension;i the silver cord snaps
i twain, the golden bowl is broken, and another soul has succumbed
.beneath the dread power, and led to another world where perhaps
the hell it greets is heaven itself to the torments which pursued it
though life.
John Gelon was a cousin to the Smnythes, and toward the close of
summer paid them a visit from his home, in north Louisiana, where
h' dwelt. Not many days had elapsed before the brilliant. smile
which lit up his nanly face, upon hia first greeting with his dearly
beloved relations, faded away and in its place the dark rugged lines
df eard appeared, and his whole appearance denoted that the soul was
%thigglirg ineffectually against th6 giant influence of the "dark
~rit."
His time was spent mostly alone, and in the woods; moody and
lentn, we saw him only at'the breakfast table, and in the evenings,
Ad then he sat locked tip within himself preyy to emotions, that ,we,
Who were unacquainted with ithe' iroumstanoe of his past life, could'
1d6tifathoni.
John Gelen in eArly lifd pssdesed one of those lively, genial tem-
eathents- which warmed'the hearts df alli who approached him. Of
ms natural order of mind fi 'sapdridr to all around him, his small
'pittance was strained to 'the utmOst to'acquire that education ihich
as the wheel of the' lipidary i necessary to. develop the hidden
%anties of Golcondaes gem, brouh the polished wealth of his genius
to the suffdee, and the bright spfk that then in youth placed him
'qieadi nd shoulders" above his 'ompaiions, were , ut the scintilla'
tions of his diamond genius, radiating and flying from contact with
the ever revolving wheel of thought.
Who has read a story of the passions of which love does not ft rm

RE DSTIC&amp;; 4;'

F
4
''
;"
I
t
!T
2

f

SCENES IN TI'E aoUTH.
A component part, and our sketch forms no exception to the gen-
eral rule.
John loved and was beloved in return, and his betrothed was in
every way worthy of him. Lovely and unassumingshe "breathes not
her fragrance on the desert air," for fa anid near her loveliness had
gained her the appellation of "Mary the flower 6f. Attacapas."
It was the sununier of the year, in the wiriter of which they were
to be united, and John and his cousin Ben had been in town to lay in
a supply of goods for farm purposes,
There was a political meeting in town that day, and John and Ben
both started home drunk! yes, drunk ! start 'not, gehtle reader, for
intemperande in those days was not then deemed the crime with
which we naturally-stamp it now.
They started'home drunk; and I will now narrate, in his own
words, what took place from thence until the moment when he ended
his days -of happiness and gave birth to the "foul fiend" that from
thence ruled with iron grasp every throb of his heart.
I give you his words,, but I Oannot portray the agony of that
ptulrned countenance ; the ashy paleness of that noble broW*,nor pic-
ture to you the world of concentrated misery gleaming from his deep-
sunken eye. 'Tis a warning I have never forgot. I have shunned
the maddening bowl, and when forced by friends to partake in the
social glass, whilst lifting the ruby contents to my lips, oft have
I started shrinking back, for tihereI there!. daguerreotyped in its
blood-red circle was the warning face of that remorse-struck man.
"We started reeling home and had reached the broW' of the hill over
against which was the house of Mary's father, and there we stumbled
against a giant root, which ran across the road and fell to the
ground.
"fHow long we lay there I know not,'but I at length arose, and
spurning my companion in the face with my heavy heel, I staggered
on to Mary's hone.
. "Arrived at the door', I 'was met by Mary herself. At the sight of
the, I thought she burst into a mocking laugh, and rising from the
ground (for I had again fallen at full length) I hurriedly drew my
'revolver' and madly fired into the open door.
"One loud, piercing shriek, was the answer to my message of death
and I stood as if benumbed irr eveiy limb; the air was darkened to
my bewildered senses, and I prayed-Oh, how swiftly shot the mental
prayers though my bewildered brain that 'I only had been dreatn-
ing.' But no-like the chaid"bolt of lightning, the bright flood of
consciousness of ,he crinae I had cormitted, flowed over my middened
soul, and I stood with the brand of Cain not stamped upon my brow;'
but deep, deep into 1My cringingeoul went the hot iron of conviction
that I was the murderer of iy o*h' dear-Mary.
"They led me uiresisting tothe parish jail, and laid me dow upon
the puncheon floor; a prey to all-the demons of another world. Iay'
there for -hours i a state of uonebriousness, and when I awoke the
rain was beating through the rotten roof upon my prostrate foriia


k

58

UEDSTICK; Olt,

Again I sunk unconscious upon the floor, and horrid semi-dreams beset
my stricken mind.
"Methought the beating rain was the tears of my Mary in heaven,
and I prayed to her for forgiveness, and then the driving rain dashed
into :ny face, and I dreamed that I was dead.-
"I was before my Creator, and dark imps vere impatiently waiting
to carry my soul into the realms below; an  then fancy brcught my
wandering mind back to ,my 'body.as it ay cold and dead, and I
dreaned I was rotting on the gallows and could even smell my putrid
body---when with a yell I awoke. and there I lay at the foot of the
hill where I had fallen, with Ben laying across me, his mouth open,
my face covered with something smelling more of whiskey than of ottar'
of oses, and, gentle reader, you can imagine the rest.
' The way we two walked into Mary's buckwheat cakes and lasses
that night was a sin to black snaix."
Reader, I was fooled, and so were you; confound him, I -hear you
say-but do not. He had cause for his melancholy, he mused not
alone in the woods for nothing, nor shunned his fellow-man without'
reason; for what man would associate with one who had just been
elected to the Legislature.
CHAPTER XVI.
"If you want to get her, don't stand back like a dratted fool."
"How TO, GET A Rica WI.'"
Tiul epidemic was drawing to a close, and our residence in the.
country must soon cease, and yet. I could not screw up the courage
necessary to popping the final question.,
The fact was, Estelle had not given me any extraordinary encour-
agement, and' I was sorter kinder 'fear'd to venture, and the day.
came upon which we had determined on returning to town without
anything being done in the premises. As for Mac, he was in no
better fix, if anything a good deal worse, for Hall had returned to the
charge like a hero and was getting ahead of Mac " hand over foot."
Our partings were cool and courtly,: and I left with the deep
certainty impressed' upon my mind that I had left no "weeping maid,
behind."
We returned to town, and soon fell into the ordinary routine of
study, eat and sleep; and on Sundays any one riding by Old Smythe's
could see standing before the gate, at any time of day, two buggies,
the owner of which were "pushing their fortunes " within the house.
One evening I received so much encouragement that I determined
upon returning during the following week and settling the matter for,
better or for worse. And when the evening-I had picked upon rolled
around, I mounted, and away I sped, not on the wings of love, but
upon the back of the hardest trotter it has ever been my lack to
mount.

SCENES IN ,TUE SOUTH..
Arrived at the house, I entered there door in a "state of feeling" as
comparatively pleasant as those that sway the heart of the convict as
he enters for the first time his "felon cell."
I had entered the same door a hundred times before, but never with
the dire intent of the present instance. Walking into the parlor, so
lost was I to all presence of mind, that I saluted a black servant girl
who was dusting the furniture as Miss Estelle.
And then when she entered, in all the majest which conscious
beauty gave to her form, my heart dropped from te, position it had
taken up in my throat down, down, away down into my ".stumick,"
and then rising again it lodged underneath the root of my tongue,
paralyzing that useful member and choking my utterance.
There I sat, and if " Tom Owen" had stood ,a4need of a subject to
set as a "detected chicken thief," how very well I would have
answered the purpose.
I took no advantage of the opportunity and after saying something
I do not now remember what, I set still, silent, pale,, and ti-embling--
and thought to myself, is this really you, Hal-you that have faced
almost every danger from the savage attack of a fice up.. Am I not
mistaken? Can this really be the gentleman who so ably defended
Pete Smith for stealing a coat, when he himself saw him do it, and
unblushingly appealed to and confronged a jury one .half of whom
were also witnesses of the flagrant act,? Pinched myself to ascertain
whether I was really I, and a 'slight scream to my infinite horror
denoted that I had. pinched the lady's rounded- arm, as it lay upon the
arm of the chair beside me.
Here the entrance of Miss Clara put an end to my series of nervous
attacks and I became myself again.
I remained until dark, and then Miss Clara going out of the room
to order lights,,I said to myself now or never, walked over and taking
the lady's hand, burst forth into a'torrent of passionate appeal which
grew more and more fervid as I proceeded.
You may perhaps imagine its fervidness when I inforpi you that it
was of the " Will you hear me.Katy Dar-ar-ling" style and brought
tears of unaffected pity from my own eyes.
When I finished, I listened in the dark with wide awake ears for
my answer and it cane in the well known tones of Miss Clara, who
informed me in her clear bell-like voice,-" that another time she
would give me an answer,. but now she coIld not.',
I did not start, I did not' move, and. av she gently withdrew her
hand .from mine, I felt as if falling fom a: balloon-down, down, I
came whirling, turning, and: as I struck the egrh the sudden entrance
of Miss Estelle with the servantatbearing, lights brought me-to my
senses.
-*When I again became master of my faculties I was seated at a
window gazing at the full round moon, as it rolled seemingly behind
cloud after cloud. Miss Clara had left the room and naught but my-
self and' Estelle were its occupants.
She looked pale and furtively glancing her eyes at me, she met -my

3

E
t


v
2 f  r
v
v
l
.J
r
}
Z
i
x°
4
R
d
r
t
¢t.
4
r-
t}
gf
I
f

REDSTICK-;  OR,
gaze which as instantly fell. "She knows all," I exclaimed, and all
the pretfeihded remorse ofthat confounded hypocrite John Gelon was
but as "small potatoes " when compared with Inine.
Sarose, an4 not daring to look at her, I passed from the house,
An  moniting, I rode I knew not whither. What thoughts racked
fhy brain that night I can not expresS, sufice it to say naught could
change my inflexible purpose of marrying her if her answer was
favorable.
I was satisfied tb wreck all my hopes of future happiness, rather
than humiliate that proud and queenlike girl.
. Letting iny horse go where he would, he at length brought up at
the hotel, and I entered to suffer ten thousand torments, at being
forced to listen to Mac's dilations upon his beautiful prospects of,
su'ccesd With Miss Clara.'
The next morning I obtained one of those rich obstinate clients,
who fill ltwyer's pur8es with their surplus fuads, and then "run down "
the profession as being a pack of rascals.. His business and perpetual
consultation almost' drove Miss Clara out of my head, and for three
or four days I drove the subject from my mind by desperate appliea-
tion to business.
One evening a little darkey eaie round and told me that Misa
Duchhpell6 wished I Would c All around in the evening, and with a
muttered eUse upon my ii  furttniate luck I went over to her resi.
dence.n
After"nany-pros and cons, she informed me that being an intimate
friend of Miss Clara she had been requested by that ladyto inform
me that not wishing to accept me in popria-persona she had deputed
her to perform that delicate mission.
I muttered my thanks, and surprised at this mode of doing business,
was more so upon being informed that it must be a secret, and that
I must not come near the house, but send any messages I wished for
her by Miss Duchapella until she came of age which would be in
about two months.
No excuse was offered for this strange mode of transacting affairs,
and I was content not to visit the scene of my unfortunate faux pa.
fbr months to come.
In the nieantime Hall and Mac kept up a perfect fusilade against
each other, and 'both being put in nomination by the two opposite
parties for the legislatuife, their rivalry in love and politics was
wrought up 'to an exciting pitch.  . .
They niad speeches 'all over 'the parish, and abused each other like
pidkpockets; but as theiielectioneering tahetics would of itself fill a
chapter we will fin*ah tlis' one and't ing over a new leaf begin.

SCENES IN TE SOUTH.     '.
CHAPTER XVII.
casnimr-Why doth yon man; prate and roar?
He s not, mad, I kiow; ut-then how -tis
He1eave, his business, for things of nought?
Baslisco-H** cares not to confine himself to himself
But would spiead from ) p ole to pole-
Politics is now his bread and hed and drink,
And plays he "upon a ,arp of a thousand strings."
HOW TO OET A Ricu Wi,:.
AmoNa the many characters about ton-Monsieur Jean, Baptiste,
'Belizaire Bergeron Tonnerre, Esq.,I cppea the climax -in character'-
istic impudence, mischievousness anidrollness.
He was a merry, dapper little Frenchman, an4 for shrewdness and
capability of taking care of number one, lead, the host of close'chaps,
that have gained for Redstick a reputation far and wide of being the
sharpest leetle place in the south-west,
"By Gar, deese ese de mose go long place I servair place mon pied
in," was the exclamation of a Creole gent with immense mustach*es,
and a small carpet-bag, as he stamped the floor of the hotel in his
impatience to get inrthe dilatory stage and leave for evaire the seenp
of his troubles; ''.Les night I save arrivez in zis got bleas place wi
one tousand dollaire, one neger boy and fine horse and dqjggy-X
play avec-some gentlemen for ze amusemeg, en, by gar, I borrw tbree
dollare from ze hotel-kepaire dis morning to get in ze acre da box
teater.
With the premise that the gent meant, stqge instead of tpater, wp
will go on with our character, hoping thet the reader can from the
above sample conjecture what kind of .blades infested Redstick.
Coming to Uedstiek without a nt, Toruerre soon found his level,
and raise a pile sufficient to commence business upon-lpis own hp/g.
His limited knowledge of the language did not prevent his acquiring
an intimate knowledge of the "History of the Four Iings," and i
,a few weeks Tonnerro was 'flush."
One evening as he was loitering aroud the precinctsog he Spread
Eagle, with one eye .open to business, his attention was attracted tq
the eagerness displayed by a couple off "chock-shirt raftsmen " to get
rid of their money, "they didn't care how. they bet, they said, any
chdto get, rid.of"their 'surplus' and at the same. time please the
children."
Walking up to them, Tonnerre was soon an. intimate of the twe
gent, who readily acceded to his request to. play a leetle gaM
pokare jes for ze amusement. Requesting them to accompany hiU
Tnnerre led   e way to the private room of a friend of his, into
whose ear h whispered tle simple words, "Soft snap."
setting do n, the preliminary cut and shuffles were "gone throuq
with/~ and at it they went. Tonnerre dealt them good hands at first,
es to encourage the gentlemen, and with iany asp re  at his ill lu4
h lost in rapid succession, five-tentwienty-fifty 49l9ars. Thinyk*ig

Yi
ji
I'
'5
c.


Y
yj'
'4

REDSTTICR; oR,
it was time to change the current of the game, lie then set to with all
his cunning and in a few moments ie twas loser two hundred and fifty
dollars. His sabres' come nrow in qu'ck and earnest succession, and
he double-cut, shuffled the cards, and in a quarter of an hour he had
the bon sueces# of gazing .his last at five hundred dollars.
" Sacre mille Tonnerres !" he exclaimed, as he arose and rapidly
run down stairs and borrowed fifty dollars to throw in the current
to dam up his streak of ill ltck.
It was his deal, and giving himself three aces and a pair of kings,
he went forty better, on a bet of five, was called, and completely
astoundeud at the sight'of aflusth in the hands of one of the raftsmen.
'Jumping to his feet he exclaimned:
".By grass, who you be-you dat do dis ."
Rising on the .opposite side of the table, the two gents, after
pocketing the money, tore open their check-shirts and displayed a
splendid suit underneath, and a shirt bosom' literally blazing with
diamond studs, and filagree chains. With a low laugh they exclaimed
"Soft snap," and before Tonnerre could prevent them away they went
down stairs, andthat was the last he ever saw of the raftsnen.
If ever you cone to Redstick and meet a little dapper Frenchman,
who displays an immense amount of anxiety to minister to your
amusentent, just lean over and whisper in his ear "Soft snap," and I
assure fou, you will not be again annoyed with the attentions, either
direct or indirect, of 'Monsieur Jean Babtiste Belizaire * Bergeron
Tonnerre.-
In addition to his many other qualifications, Tonnerre was a violent
politician and w one of Mac's staunchest supporters ,
He often invited Mac andme to come over and dine with him, and
afraid of his 'being nettled with our repeated refusals we one day
accepted his invitation to. dine with him, and at dinner hour we
accompanied Tonnerre to his domicil. Upon our arrival Tonnerre's
servant rang an enormous cracked bell, which could be heard almost
a mile off, and with every form and ceremony used atthe most formal
dinner party, among the aristocracy, we were marshalea to the -table.
We had tiever before partaken of French cookery and this our first
experience was delightful;. it appeared to me' that rabbits must have
been' very cheap in market for almost every dish was composed-of
sqme part of that little animal.
The "bill of fare," for the little scamp had a regular "bill of fare
comme la Nouvelle Orleans," denoted that fried rabbits, stewed rab-
bits, rabbit soup, fricasee de lepine and several other "kickshos de
lepine," as Mac denominated them,, formed the whole of the first and
second courses.
Although neither of us had any extraordinary love for rabbit, still
as there appeared to be nothing else but lepine, we "pitched *in
and eat the heartiest dinner that we had ever partaken of in Redstick.
Whei we had finished Tonnerre made an extraordinarily long 'and
eloquegit speech, the greater part of which we' neither understood nor
appreciated; every now and then he would stop, and twisting his

is
tA
r.

i
t
;t
i
4
t
'
f
f

SCENES   IN TIHE, SOUTT.                     .

mustaches, exclaim-" Qui is well"-to which we would shout, "Yes,"
and encored-then, all hands would fill up and take a drink.
This amusement lasted until Tonnerre let down,-and then he took
an enormous big drink,-after which he began again,-"Vous avez
manqez beaucoup, heh ?
Wee, wee," we shouted.
"Very well den, shentillhommes, you ees de fus dat'evaire I see in
"Americk" zat have grand kantita ie what you call 'em, ze what dat
ten times make one, two, five cent--ah !-I got him--cent ;-you have
heap cent,-heap philo8ophique. By grass "-and here he spread
his features into an enormous grin--"you have eat de chat and you
tink him bon comme do rabbit."
Starting horror struck from our seats, we gazed at him with so
much unbelief expressed in our faces that hec started back with an air
of indignation such only as a Frenchman can assume.
You no believe me, by grass,  avnrieette vien toutsweet; bring do
cage vot have de two grand thomas cat-dat is geetin fat for my dina
next wik."
"You infernal scoundrel! "I shouted, as the girl. entered with a
bird cage in her hand, within the limits of which two enormous cat
quietly reposed; "you miserable French cuss if you have made me
eat cats, I'll be hanged if I don't break every bone in your body,"
and I would have put my threat into execution if the sight of the
heads and skins brought in by the girl had not produced an instinta-
neous explosion of my waistcoat buttons and tremendous upheaving
of the inward man,
I run out of doors and there found Mac, who had waited not for
farther proof, holding on to a horse-rack and in the regular succession
of the bill of fare vomiting forth rabbit in every shape. I was too
eick to pay much attention to him,'and sitting down upon the steps, I
soon gazed with astonishment at the enormous quantity I had eaten.
That dinner was sufficient for us for a week, for every time I went to
put anything into my mouth-visions oflricaseed cat danced before
my eyes and I was forced to get up from the table. Mac was in such
a woeful plight that the mewingof a cat was sufficient to set him going,
and the story getting out came very' near ruining his chances of
lection.
I never went near Miss Duchapella during the two months of my
robation, but on the contrary run into every kind of excess-i the
opes that she might repent of her choice and set me again at liberty.
Mac and Hall were out electioneering pretty near all the time, and
together told more lies, kissed more ugly babies and spent moe
money than they usually did during a whole year.


Ii
I

SCENES IN THE SOUTR,

65~

64                        oE;DoTICK , OR,
CHAPTER XVII1.
strike for your country--
And yourself-"
TiHERE was to be a grand barbecue at ' a place called "Seven-up
Creek," about twenty niiles from town,.and as Mac and Hall were to
be the orators of the day, I and Colonel Wadd accompanied Mac out
to the place appointed.
The day was very warm, and to make" the matter worse, we were
all on horseback, and the road was unshady and dusty as could be.
But by means of a bottle of the meanest kind of -whisky, purchased
from a wayside inn, we managed to get along tolerably well until we
arrived at the bank of a little river which bbre the euphonious title
of "Big Devil's lun."1
Here'we were stumped, for there was no bridge, and we were igno-
yant as to whether the river was low enough to be forded.
The waters were muddy and the current swift, and we came to tho
conclusion, that "the better part of valor was-discretion," and set
down on a little bluff that jutted out into the river, to await the
arrival of a party on behind, some of whom Nvele well acquairkted with
the "depth of water " thereabouts; and,-at th same time, we spread
our lunch composed of cheese, crackers 94dthe afore-mentioned
bottle of "rot-gut," and passed the time very pleasantly..
Some time having elapsed, and no one appearing, Colonel Wadd
came to the conclusion that he would strip off and take a bath in the
muddy waters of the "run," and ascertain its depth.
Colonel Wadd was very large and of a corpulent tendency, and the
first thing he determined on was to take a running jump from the
little bluff and dive. Standing back about twenty feet he clapped his
hands and started in a run; arriving at the edge, he pitched in head.
foremost, and come down ker swallop-in two inches water! He fell
on his breast and hands,.and you could have heard him grunt
mile off.
We waded in and helped him out, and when we found that he was
not hurt materially, we made the woods resound with our shouts of
laughter. We had all expected (I know not why) that the water was
at least ten feet deep under the bluff, when in fact it hardly covered
the mud.
We mounted after that, and in no place did the stream cover the
fetlocks of our horses. Arrived on the other side W dismounted
and threw water over our horses with a tin-cup until they were drip6
ping wet; this wasto cool them down, for the heat haditold terribly
on them that day.
We had just finished and were replacing our saddles, when Hall
made his appearance on the opposite bank.  .
"Boys," said the Colonel, "Hall is as ignorant of the depth of the
water as we were; if he halloos to us, don't you answer back, an
we'll see some fun."

I

Hall, however, did not!ask ugr any questions; but judging from
appearances thatwe had swam  the "' run," he dismounted, and taking
off his.olothes,;carefully tied them in t bundle, which he as Carefully:
tied upon the top of his head; and then morinting, his 'horse, he drew
up his legs and carefully, with drawn rein, proceeded to feel his way
agregs.
When he had.got about half way across, and the water as yet not
reaching the horse's fetlocks, we could holding no longer, but broke,
forth into roars at his comic appearance. There he was, still- in the
expectatkninthat the streatawould suddenly deepen and himself and'
horse be precipitated head over heels itito the water;:when, to crown
ajl, a large body of electors, on their wAy to'the barbecue,: ppeared'
upon the opposite 'bank.
Their uproarioua laughter, arid- the presence of two ladies-,in a
buggy among the crowd,-awoke Hallito a sense of, the ridiculous posi-'
tion he was placed in; who coming down suddenly upon his horse:
with a long peach wand he had been feeling his way with, the animal
jumped from. under him, and Hal, clothes and all came down ker.'
81lng into theaterr' The whoops and shouts of the crowd on the
other bank and out own laughter, wereenough to awake the dead, and
Hall, grabbing his bundle, sped on after his horse like a streak, of
lightning. .how and where he caught him, we could not find out,'for
when weiarrived at the barbecue-ground, the gentlemati denied ever
coming that road at all, and accounted for the dampness of his clothes
by remarking that he'd "sweat so much that he had to stop and wring
the perspiration out of his apparel"
The grounds were densely thronged with-the male and female res-
idents of the neighborhood, and we spent a merry hour  in walking
around, making acquaintances,.shaking hands and cracking jokes be-
fore the proceedings of the day began.
At length the biggest, fattest, ugliest man in the crowd arose and
moved, in a sharp, crackeAI voice, that Colonel Snorter be called to the
chair, and then named some twenty majors, colonels, and judges as-
vice. presidents afid moderators. No one expressing opposition to
the gentleman's moves, the little platform was soon crowded with the-.
patriotier officers of the day,-
, Colqual.Snorter made a glowing and elegant. speech about the fu.-.
ture destinies of our kentry, and the safety of the interests of. thed'
South depending upon the coning election, and set down exhausted
amid the enthusiastic cheers of three little niggers up in an adjacent
thorn-tree.
Hall was then called for, who appeared with a "wheelbarrow" load!
of books, to which he intended referring in support of his assertions..
The weight of the books, in addition to the humanities already upon
the platform, came pretty near breaking down that frail creation of a
country carpenter. But Hall manfully disregarded the cracking of
the planks and proceeded, in a two hours' speech, to convince the-
5

0'i
i
S
i
Z

i
;  f
r
i
F
j
_1
'
i
r


s
{ #r
.
(
,
,,f
, .
r  F ;'
t-
,
,
a
' f
,;
,
:
,a,
; ;
4
1'
7
f
4
s
t
;
,
a  .

67

SCENES IN THE SOUTH.
CHAPTER XIX.

REDSTICK; 0R,
Seven-upi'Creekers that the safetyof the Union depended alone upon
his election, andfthat if' the price of cotton, eggs, ete.,Nid not corres.
pond with 'the votes 'he received; then he would-woald-would-'
"Swni 'Devil's Run in two' inches water," responded some indi-
vidual in the cr6wd'
Hereupon the crowd coinmenced laughing, and every time they
ceased, Iall would make some assertion' in 'his most fiery manner,
whereupon a drunken chip, who was reclining against the foot of an
o1( pine nearly opposite to him, would' sing out -through his nose is
imitation of the deep bass tones of an old bull frog, " Very deep!
very deep!"' and another red-headed chap directly under the plat-
frin would respond in the clear shrill pipe of the green tree-toad,
"Knee dip ! knee deep !" This continued until he finished speaking.
,,Macthen got up and commenced an eloquent strain  about the
Mexican war, which was interrupted! by the crowd taking refuge un-
derneath the platform, hoping thereby to get out of the rain which
hkd commenced pouring down; but the contracted' space was sooh
full, and then they commenced fighting each other, and in a few mo-
meats overturned the platform with all the presidents and "vices" on
top of' it. They went flying in all directions. Mic pitched head-
foremost into .a basket of eggs which was lying at the foot of a trqe
near by, and, Colonel Snorter was suspended from one of the posts,
by his coat tail for ten or fifteen minutes before the quarreling and
fighting crowd could hear his loud yells for help.
The rain did not break up the barbecue until everything oa the
ground was eaten up by the crowd; which being accomplished, we all
set out for home, the rain in the meantime coming down upon our
devoted heads in torrents.
-Wheni we' gt to the " Big Devil's Run," we were going at a gallop,
and without drawing rein, we dashed into the water; and before we
were twenty feet from the bank, Colonel Wadd and I were washed
from our saddles, and Mac and 'Hall were swimming their horses for
dear life.-
'The confounded creek had risen about ten feet from the' rain, and
we had hard work to get ashore.
When we arrived home that night the resolve was mutual that, to
no more barbecues would we 'go if they took place on the other side
of "Big Devil's Run."
-t

"Here'~Ao the victory that was lost and won."
ELECTION-DAY cane at last, and each party flocked to the polls, in
the full and expressed consciousices that to them belonged the victory
and the spoils.
All day long the fighting, drinking and quarreling about the court
house and Spread Eagle was uproari6ds.
' Mac had three voters penned up'in the loft of our office, in a happ.
itate -of unconsciousness as to whether they were in heaven, or d .
eath , He intended to poll their votes just before the polls closed 4
'but, uifotunately, whilst he was busily engaged in stealing one ot
Hill's from underneath an"' empty rice hogslhead behind the' court.!
house, some of that'gentleman's emissaries succeeded in letting therd.
down by a'ropbtied around their middle from the loft window, and
running them out to a county precinct voted them for Hull.
At 140t the' polb were closed, and the votes counted, when it was
ascertained that Hall led Mac ten votes at the town' precinct; and
that, somehow or other, the county precincts, not satisfied with either
had' voted for Colonel Peter Wadd, and that gentleman at twelVe
o'clock was just even.with them-and Pumpkin Hollow to hear front.
We were all assembled at the hotel 'eoop and were in a-high state
of anxiety to hear from the denizens of' -Pumpkin Hollow. 'Hail
claimed it, and Mac swore he'd carried' it, and the Colonel's friends
swore"'he'd carried it, and there it was 'nip and 'tuck, who 'could brag
the most about the expected returns from' Pumpkin Hollow.
Hour after hour we impatiently awaited the dilatory arrival of the
bearer of dispatches from Pumpkin Honow, and at twelve o'clock he
lhad not yet made his appearaidie.  ''t"
At this hour the ,greater pqrtion ofthe crowd were inside tho
4ensely packed bar-room, engaged in drinking, shouting and quarrel-
iMg. What feW remained iri'the street hvere mostly those who ad
bet heavily on the result, and were stading silently stirring into the
pitchy darkness, every now and then fanbying that they dould shear
the letteringg 'hoofs of the 'returning o i6er s horse as he enteied
the town. At length, the joyous cry of, "There he cokmei!"ta;cofni-
panied by the pit-a-pat of the horse s hoofs, brought us out of doors
in a perfect jam. , One fellow got,his foot entangled 'at the doorLway,
and allihands caime tumbling down, helter-skelter.
As they arose every one seemed to be labrying under the impress
sion' that some one had knocked him' down, 4d, in cotCse, a regular
rqw was the result of this unfortunate im 'ressioi' I was' attempting
to et'out of the window, wh     'aj'r Pice, a little bull'terridr"dt a
fellow, colfared me aiid demadedsatisaetion for bungig hiiik  t6Wehe
nose. The startling fact was v'ei-y"'id6ht, for the clvet was- 6**int

'd
s
k
l
}
I
f
}
f
{r g
f j

I~

,


}r
Y,
f
ii
$1
I,

REDS I.CR KOR,

copiously, and I had no time, nor he any inclination, to make or hear
excuses; and, in repayment of a dab in the stomach, I hit him jer-
bing, and down we canhe! tPgethe.; ';Uffortunately, as we rolled in
the filth on the floor, some enterprising individual downed old Major
Boomerang witl;the leg bf a table which' had been torn loose in the
re, n- the addition of two hundred and twenty-bye pounds to
ttlie, wvs far from heling agreeable  Bh  thatwas far from
Ieing all: our little party on the floor formed a nuoleu  for some
twqsuty-o4d wilo were, knocked down, helter-shelter, upop us. The
pufing,and hauling, fighting and yelling, were tierfric.
.t the scr    I got my head froni under the' crowd, ani looked
Orbtind atth po eedings. Two and two they were coupled of fall
oyer the rpom httng 'right and left. One fellow was o top  e
billigrd-table, with a long cue, strikirm  under the table atanother
gent, who would crawl over on the opsite side from which his op-7
94ent occupied, and raising' his head present  a revoler at the
oww o  top, who would make an awful lic  at his head 'and then
jump back forI fear th#t the pistPl would blow' a hole through him.
A other fellow was fending off the decanters and'glasses thrown at
tm,. with flle big looking-glass that usually ornamented the bar
! hilst another had crept up the fire-place, and an old fellow iho had
ll! his false teeth knocked down his throat,; was punchIg him with
Sdull sword-cane.
-.1 made - desperate effort, and hauled myself fre from the' living
ght that pinned me to46the floor, and rushed out of doors. At
moment, thefellowu:nde   e bihqrd-table,. having revved a
oyvgre blow on.the nozzle  om he gent on'topcmnecdrg h
revolver; e erybody instantly ceased  phiog an ieoke for'the doo
The follow n the table made a flyig ump and landed on his hiad
out into th street. The customer in the  re-place had by this tim
made his way to' the top of the chimney, were he sai crois-legge4
shouting, Murder."
leace was restored, and the, arrival 6f 'e returning officer tieg on
ia hqrie, hog-fashiog, and in a state of beastly intoxication, turned
t4pe attention of all from purely personal matters, to the subject of
gePrl interest, viz:-the voto at Punpkin Hollow. -
The horse walkedup to tlge crowd with his drunken master tied ii
auch a manner oh he couldn't guide him if he would.
imP   ,own" th;L  ooth
IWho'se, ahead- '.
What's the new8'" were shouted in:his ears, but he only responde
bg.ascessipnf g~ ru~s,         '
SUntie hin,, saidjiajor ]Fice, " and lesta examine his paper;
accor nglyone-but no ppers equl4 be found.
aon4A          resounded with a g    Vnt. Wq
h poieto               '"h'q4 ehimp,  u' him o, and then m'gnaged to
some indgfikite rephes tg our pany questions.

$8

SCENE i THE 8OUTH.
Sitting on the ground, ;ith his head  eaningaist the pump,
tind his clothes saturated with muid. and,*ater, he formed -pletty
center to the group- that" surroundied-him, one of whni had a nodb
bunged up to twice jts usual dimensions, others with blabk 'sdts over
and tride their eyes 'and, all With s1hikts, coats -and pnts, torn 'and
rumpled-somne hadliats with the crown bent in, dth'a had none at
all, and few vere '1' a better fik, so far' as sobriety was concerned,
than the drunken "runner."
ow many -vote 'did' I get?"? asked fHall.
Nairy," resjouded the gent..
Here a shout went up from theunitod suporte s of Clonel Wadd
and inibthat'ie the saglh in the o1d &amp;hot dingle.
"How many di i receive ?" 'queried' Ma .
ANairy," 'aditirsponded the individual.
"Hurra !" screamed Hall's and Colonel Wadd's friends.
One of th'd' latter immediatelyg aschig, "lo*many alid the Colonel
receive?" got the fdlowitiey: :
Nair ." 'There    9s no shoutig then, butthe pobr devil was
ckd atid yudled until, 'between 'the doinpotad effect of liquor and
blows, he relapsed agam into a state-of- Vuconscidusness'.
We - et out thit night on horsebabk knd on fot, for Pumpkin Ho!-
low to asceItlin the -'estult, and after -we got thOe found outl sure
enough "norie of 'he tarididaies' received a "inglt vote "--it having
rained all day and the polls were npt opened.l
oming bck' the 'iiett ~ornxhg, we iuet soue of our party, who
hd left Redi    th us the precede g night, catteied all along the
The "lection was held over; 4mak th 'afterward, an&amp; Mac and Hall,
having dedid0d *hd should 'alone Wrni agiiist Colonel Wadd by a
hore'Tace, it was at length 'decided who should re resent Redatiek ih
the legislapure of.the State. 'Which Of tiier' Was selected, remains
for you, dair reader, to exaiine theipages following and ascertain.
CHA PTR' XX
clar' the trar -the r 4erop "
MAC and Hall's friends held a catucus ai d in it '"ame to the wise
conclusion that as they opIy agreed todifer, ithe question of. who
shouldilkone compete With i'olonel Wd lii the 'cotning contest,' shouM
be deWided 'y a ract been HA16)brrel and 'a gray' eldhini
whh 'Mue owned a hilf interest.                         .'
'Makh preparation was *one'thauh with in Obrder to have the horse(
intho best possible trim; 'and 'if 'the day had 'been postponed  ne
week longer all the cash iti *Redatik' would have been stakeddri tife
result.''                                           '

a
rr
a:
a- r
z
F
a

if4

iii
I


Lky7.
c'4

REDSTICK; JioR

The morning of the appointed day, was as fine, clear and warm as
ql be wisbd for,..and tbe country people locked into town in
crowds to wi~geps the much-talked-of race between the substitutes of
Haland, Mac...                             .
Wth th    xeption of one, or two lights,.which was a thing of
!course, their d y  dpassedaway pleasantly until two o'clock, the hour
#ppointed for the riders to mount, and the crowd. to "elar' the
track."
Here a difficulty arose-about appointing judges, some of UI hl's
friends wanting a majority of that gentleman's friends to be on the
t44,:ndviWeeiversa-with Mac and his supporters.
At length, Mac. was a1wed to choose six and Hall six, which they
did, and the judges mounted with alacrity an old sloping shed, that
was nearly a mile, as well as could be ascertained, from the spot where
the horses, lyere tp strt...
1JLhree ime; of, pqea  party were then selected to start them fair, and
the crowd were ordered to clear the road Pnd allow, a fair start; but
he gents, composing said crowd were too busily attending to the
elosipg of bhets ad ehuffering over dds to pay muchattention to the
shouting judges, one of whoxnwaxing wrothy, pitched. in with a horse
whip 'to elegr thg tack.;It is ;useless to inform ,any, one at all
acquainted with th pharacteristis of the Redstick people, thet said
p'd, geagne e yingout of the crowd, hpad foremost, before he had
Jeared six feet of the read                 I A
At laswhenallthe bets 14 been taken,'.and  treuendois fght
vpr between two igen who fought, ab~ipthe color of th  gray'o ItaI,
the crowd magnanimously separated to the right and left, and the
ilpys, were with u h difficulty hoisted into their sad4les, and aline
was, drawn i thse road for , feir start. The word p  gven,aend
:wy went th sorrel getting the start. about twenty feet .It is nepd-
past o sauy that the grEy d-nodifldgw.
After a great deal of fussthesorrel came panting ,back, his rider
swearing and yelling like a madman; he wished to whip the rider of
the gray before- they started again, but was kindly prevented.
At last, they got off together, and went pattering down the, road
"nip and tuck," the. gd~s Whippitig spurring and yelling as if the
destinies of the Union rested upon their gaining the race. Backed by
the noise of the crowditbie hubbub was aWful-'."
Tus          ' a the twoi brqes neared thetnd, a ,,unat engued .aong
rt4he jgdge who all pilediupon ene man Whose orthodoxy in the quea-
I ions atisme, was very mnlp dogbted Re was apcused atfirst very
UPildly of being t4o g4od a friend of qqlonejWadd to -be anppreju-
diced judge of the rate; and upon his politely informnng the c.owd
,,that they might "go, ona vpyage of discovery to a verywarim region,"
me of them began to wildly and kindly remonstrate with -him by hit.
4,ipg him upon the head with a, hickory stick.
At this junctute, the horses had just started and by the time they

SCENES- IN THE SOUTH.

71

atrived at the stand, there were no judges on top of the shed; the
fray had brought them to the ground where they had it rough and
tumble.
The crowd at the starting point, perceiving the state of affairs, ran
down in a body, and in fact such was their eagerness to participate,
that those who did not make almost as quick time as the horses,
stopped on the road to have the matter out among themselves. .
The disturbance ceased, and then atose the question as to whioh
horse had won the race, none of the judges were able to say anything
about the matter, and some of them were in a more fit statfor a hos-
pital than to decide the momentous question then at issue,
The riders were appealed to, but each one swore that the hose they 'r
respectively rode had come out ahead, and they, at the: same time
swore just as decidedly that each other was the biggest liar unhuig,
and so-and so tle race had to be run over again.
Again the judges were chosen and the crowd resumed their position
at the starting point, save a few who, distrustful of the judges, occupied
a position opposite the stand.
The horses were drawn up together, and the judges were about to
give the word, when the whole crowd were thrown, into confusion by
tie charge of a furious hull that hadbroken out of a ,neighboring
field, in order to 'be present and .take a hand, or rather horn, in the
matter.
His onslaught *s so furious gnd sudden, that two or three of the
outsiders went whirling in the ait before they were aware of his pres-
ence. Some who were protected by their position on the inside of
the throng, shouted: '
"Go on with the race'; never mind the dirn bull."' But Mr. B4l
soon made them aware of the -fact that if the crowd was large 'he
would put them all to flight.
Two or three desperate lunges soon convinced the crowd that the
diekens was to- pay, and they commenced scattering in all directions.
There was a small flat-roofed house upon which ,the starting judges
sat near the road, and the top was soonas thick as the top of a bee-
hive of a hot summer's day.
The buggies were crammtred in an instant, and as there were a great
many on the ground, not more than twenty"persons were 'lft without
ptotoction. jfThese individuals went kiting in everg direction-wothe
bull first pursuing one and then another.
Some eight or ten having taken refuge behind the judge's stand,
were pursued by the bull who ran them round and round the house
four or five times. He was rapidly gaining on them when he suddenly
faced about and stopped stock still.
The pursued still thinking that he was following them, and in hot
haste to escape, came tearing and shrieking around the corner of the
stand, and their sudden dismay upon pitching right upon the horns
of the bull affles description.

10o

i

I'
1'


72REn STICK;C.T0O

 Ue could only hook one, at a time, however, and him he;pent flying
iuto thevery midst of thecrowd on tqp of the ptand.. The rest got
out of the way, some getting into buggies, and some under them,' and
4the hulled nothing to operate upon but- a pjece of red flannel, ;used
,generallyas a distance flag when there was two or more heats, to b-e
run.       - a   ia .      t
This hehooked and tore, and seemed to take infinite satisfaction in
trading it under foot. As he went furiously around the stand,, sev-
eral pistol* were fired at him, but didn't affect himn any other
manner.than to increase his fury..
One fellow in attempting to lean over and shoot hima n the back
rftbm the, stind, was pushed off by a sudden movement of 'the crowd,
ad fell diretitly on the animal's back ; wasting no time, he grabbed
'his tail and hung on for dear life. The, bull ran round. and round,
slinging the fellow around in a circle of about twenty feet, when run-
ning ear at buggy the gent let go and run under the vehicle-
We were: still popping at him with our pistols, when his attention
was attracted by the appearance of two of 'the judges from the lower
oend ofthe road, who were coming up to see what detained the horses.
Taking after them he chased them to their former positionan d
then'*ent off to attend a mass meeting of cattle in a neighboring
commnone.  .       .         .'  ..-            .
The crowd now came down from their various retreats, and closed
ind gainaround the horses; At last, just after dark, for the proceed-
ings took up the entire evening, a tremendous popping and cracking
iTenoted that something was the: matter; the crowd separated riglt'
and left, and old gray came charging down the road with half a dozen
lptcks of crackert tied to his tail.-.-some rascal had taken advantage
of his proximity to the horse to fasten them 9fn and then light then
with a cigar-pack, bang, g'lang, bang, bang, bang, fiz-.--ser-rang--
gera.nr~gi bang, fiz, bang,; away they went, Hall's horse taking fnght
*sand running aeme four miles.in the opposite direction, whilst old gray
thtew his rider and never stopped until he got to town.
Another;horse was got up against the sorrel, and although it w.as
now pitch dark the race came off, the sorrel beating Mac's substitute
Itwenty-feet,.six inches and a fraction-r-such being the return of the
judge who, standing in the middle of the road with a laptern ap he
.said to let the horses see, was run over and nearly killed. And flail
was at last the nominee.  .1-

Ii
11
1/

CHAPTER XXI.
"My name is Norv1--
From the Grampian hills I come."
THE contest between Hall and Wadd came off some thirty days
after the horse race, and Wadd beat Hall like all forty. Maef friends
having voted for the former gentleman though spite against Hall,
engendered by the many fights and quarrels -incident upon the races,
and former election.
Redstick had subsidediromJ the high stite of excitement, in which
its population had boiled and Jubbled for the past three months, and
everything, including everybody, was as moody as a young lawyer on
being snubbed bf the presiding judge.
Something was wanting, and a lyceum was proposed as a fit reme-
dy for the evil; but after enjoying a sickly existence it "let down,"
and a jury of six slightly tostieated young gents, found a verdict of
"too much sass among, the -youngsters, and want of appreciation
among the fair sex of Redstick."
Some happy genius proposed the inauguration of an "Amateur
Thespian Society," and the proposal meeting with the warmest ap-
proval, all the, young 'hen in the place becanie members, and the
preparations for the "grand opening" were prophetic of a success-
ful and happy hit. Nothing could be heard of in the place but the
" coming event," which instead of casting any shadow before, threw
out the brightest gassy glare before its gay and looming figure, that
made the shadow behindd," which came sure enough, thrice more
dark and gloomy.
To, cr'wn all, a play was written by Hall for the "opening," which
for verbosity, oddity and happy combination of tragedy, comedy,
farce and dramatic .theology, beat the bangers and took "several
feet of recumbent linen from the bosom'of the dwarfed monarch of
the pea-field."
The subject filled the miridg of all, and even the girls were as full
of the spirit of the thing as any of us; one of them upon being
asked by Chickadiddy, -the clerk .in the dry-goods -store, to..what
address must he send a half yard of tape she had just purchased,
exclaimed :
"My name 'is Norval -on the Grampian-.Oh ! deary me, I forgot-
just send it up to Mr. Tootsweet's, and pa says charge it until the first
of January.".
"Yes, ma'am,".answered Chickadiddy, who was to act. as King
Casimr in the coming play. "Charge! charge! my heroes ! On
'ye braves who'd rather diethan be-a-a-a-tigger.'
The opening night came. at last, and the substitute f e1C4 Hall
of Thespis," -for th1- nonce, the whole lower story' of an o  and long

172

SCENES IN THE SOUTH.


unoccupied house, was filled to its utmost capacity, by the old and
young of both sexes.
The upper end wa.icreened off from: observation, by fifteen table-
cloths sewed together and made to hoist away to the ceiling by means
of pulleys.  In front of this excuse for scenery was a row of tallow
candles stuck in tin sconces, throwing a' lurid light upon nowhere in
particular. The lower portion was occupied with benches that 'rose
gradually from the floor to the'ceiling, and these were crammed to-
their utmost capacity. The audience was so large that the floor was
occupied witl gentlemen standing. crowded up to within ten feet of
the footlights. Our orchestra was composed of a black fiddler, a
white genius who played very wdl on the bass drum,.and a fellow
who screamed away on a fife. What was lacking in harmony they
made up in noise.. Theywere perched up on. the top of a plat-
form, resting upon the heads of four or five whisky barrels, placed
on end, and did great service :in drowning the uproar of the
audience.
At last their noisy demonstrations of impatience were silenced by
the loud clanging of a cow-bell, and the table-cloths began slowly to
ascend to the ceiling, revealing to the audience another demi-screeri,
composed of an old carpet, which hung suspended from the walls by
two ropes ; in the hurry to draw up thecurtain, which operation taxed
the strength of six men, who ntade, known the demands upon their
strength by noisy grunts, they clogged the pulleys and it would not
fall and cover the retreat of Cassimir's men in the sixth act; but,
however, that mattered not, as they tan under the carpet, which was
supposed to represent the forest of "Inglemere."
The first actor called upon was a, little fellow by the name of Sam
Chike, who represented the despairing lover in the piece. Short and
chubby, with a .countenance beaming with joyous health and the con-
tents .of a small flask, he kept concealed in his, large red sash, (formed
from one of the red curtains of the "'Spread Eagle.") He neverthe-
less acted the part of the, "despairing lover " to perfection. With
his head cast down, he "shut himself up like a jack-knife " in
response to the enthusiastic applause of the audience, and commenced
his "'appeal to the gods " in so low a tone that noone could hear him.
"Louder! louder!" exclaimaed~te audience; and "iDown in front,"
succeeded in drowning his low appeal, which he succeeded in at last
elevating to a kind of "melo-dramatic" squeal.
" Down in front !" continued the back-seaters, which met with no
response from the gentlemen infront, save a smiling glance at the
floor, which was covered with spittle and tobacco quids, promiscuously
inteimingled, an inch in depth, until a cry was raised that the ladies
could not see ; and then, if you have ever seen a covey of patiidges
squat in a rice field, you can form some, Saint s idea of the manner in
which the front rank sank to the dirty, slippery floor. Men of Red-
stick, of this will I bear witness in your favor, for that chivalrous

J ,

'74

fr
I ;

I'

tE !
i~
t4
i
e
t
.
E
+

REDSTICK-j OR,

SCENES IN THB SOUTH.                  75
-squat, upon that nasty floor, equaled in heroism and self-disregard,
the triumphant assault of the French upon the Malakoff.
Chike was -impelled, by all this cry and struggle to get a look at
'him, 'to exert himself, and raise his voice to-a loud, frantic demi-setni-
quaver, but' unfortunately, at this moment, he forgot his part, and
stood with uplifted arm a prey to emotions too various to Mention.
For a moment there was a dead silence, but some one thinking that
he was waiting for the noise to cease, commenced shouting silence, in
a loud tone, which caused others to, shout ,silence, and' by the time
they ceased the squad in front, who became aware of the cause of his
silence, commenced laughing, and 'the merriment soon broke out all
over the house.
Silence was at length restored, and Chike having backed up against
the carpet, in which the prompter'had torn a hole, commenced in a
sheepish8tone to repeat from the prompter's lipA, his ".lamentations,"
for he had totally forgotten his part, and thenceforth relied upon the
prompter'to put him through.
"Ye woods and dingled dells," whispered the prompter.,
"Ye goods and dingy wells," repeated Chike;, and so on, until he
was completely dead to the audience, and alive-only to-the prompter.
'At last; as he repeated in a sheepish voice the words he should have -
shouted out, and accompanied with violent gestures, ' Iearme, oh,
hear me, Victoria," some one, in trying to peep at the audience
through the prompter's hole in the carpet, trod heavily on that gentle-
man's foot, upon which he angrily exclaimed:
"4Get off my foot, you dirn fool."
Chike, who was listening eagerly frihis promptings, and aroused
again by the evident dissatisfaction of the audience, shouted:
"1Get off my foot you dirn fool!" and if he didn't bring down the
house, a la Kean, you Can take, eeiy tile ii Redspick.
Although not half through his part, lie retired in a hurry and could
not be induced to return again. The next one called was a tall fellow
named George Pie, and we expected wonders from him, for more
brass waskiever expended in makin   ne man's countenances before
'dmhince he blessed this world with is spre  Ce.
He was to act the part of Bartoli, and is first duty was to run out
UpQ* the' stage and exclaim, with the necessarysaccompaniment of
g estu res :  II
"4Oh, Heavens, Captain Thornton is killed !" He started as brave
as a lion, but let domn just as he entered on the stages There he
stood, with Syes averted from the audience, and in a piping meager
voice whined out:
"Hevings! Captain Thornton is kil-led."
"The h-l he is ! ' exclaimed a rough voice' from the equattere,
and1Baitoli' retired, having accomplished, the 'undesired object of
bririging down the house.
Some -of the puissant actors having at last broke the ice,.the play


':6                      REDSTICK.; OR,
went on admirably, and we got through the first, second, third and up
to the seventh Act hi a hurry.
Here, as we were, to, dhange oui dress, Jaid drape ourselves as
ANymphs of the Wazve," with moss and chickweed, a desperate attempt
'was made -to' let -ddwn the outside curtain, but it was."no go ;", it
wouldn't come agd we were forced to let it reniain as it was, and
crowd behind the second curtain to strip and dress.
We stript' off-im-al hurry, and all were taking a drink, to the success
of the difficult ordeal wewire. shortly to pass through, when down
came the inside ' curtain with a' rush, and there, terror-stricken and
immovable, for the moment, stood tNlve "male nymphs 'as naked
as-as mermen. Screams of laughter arose from the frantic audience,,
as we ran helter-skelter seeking for some hole in Which to creep, but
in vain, for the back -door was locked to keep out intruders, and the
key *as in the pocket of the "Queen of the Nymphs,"who, it is
needless to :say, could not find her .pants in the confused tna0s of
wearing apparel that ornamented the corner of our pseudo-dressing-
room. Some of the back seats having broken down, with.the ladies,
and some of the squatters running forward and covering us with their
cloaks until all the feminines retired, we managed to dress, and then
went sorrowing to our homes.- It is needless to say that the drama is
dead in Redstick. "Peace to its ashea."
CHAPTER XXII.
Ozssinfr.-I hive seen the elephant I
Bas im.-,-Ah I were you not terror-stricken?
-Cs.--'Twas fearful though---'tis strange-
Bes.--Whati
As.---Ris Latin name-Old Sledqe.
Fanm HOW TO GET A RICTt Win.
THE menagerie was coming, and-the editors of the "Redstick Star
Spangled Banner" and    Hero of Seventy-Six " forgot for the nonqp,
their wild appeals"to the people to arise and saxe their sinking country,
and stretched themselves" in their India-rnbber attempts, at de-
scribing the various crooked, straight, hairy, woolly and bare-hide
a~iimals that made up The far4ained and wonderful collection of AIesars.
Soft Snap, ,Grabbem &amp; Co., (lately of New York, and! a resident
partnerin Asia, engaged. in. trapping elephants, expressly for this
concern, with a patent net invented and used exclusively by tb~e
firm).
For weeks before the arrival of this great and wonderful caravapsery,
the negroes and little-thildrennwere.in fidgets of ecitement, an4 the
triumphant entry to the place of the procession, composed of Qn b-ia
elephant, Christopher Columbus by name, .aud one small ,one too

SCENES IN TIlE SOUTH.

77

young to christen, nine men, six, cages, and a caft-load of hay, upon
which diet the elephant usually lived, and upon which were seated
three.fiddlers, two Dutch brass trumpeters, (I mean tw6 brass Dutch
trumpeters,) and a little bit-of fellow behind an enormous bass drum,
making more noise .-than any of them; their atrival, as aforesaid,
threw the town into a perfect uproar. Everybody who could raise a
quarter was inside the tent that night to see the Curiosities.- Great.
was the wonder excited by the wonderful performances of the elephant,
and his eating two barrels of apples without winking his eyes, or pay-
iig. for them, drew expressions of wonder from staid people who had.
'never wondered before.
The Misses Smythe were there, and though I was! debarred, by my.
promise, from keeping their company, still I followed them, as accomb
panied by Hall they slowly went the rounds of. the nine cages of
monkeys, paroquets and the wonderful elephant.
When they arrived, at this animal's station, Hall purchased some
apples, and proceeded to show the ladies how dexterously the animal
could take them out of his hind coat-tail pockets, which, he did with
such alacrity that lie had them down his immense throat before you
doulJl say peas. WhetherHall wished to. fool their elephant, or didnot
wish to purchase more apples, I can not tell, but he kept on'tufninl
his swallow tails to him, and motioning for. him, to;take thefancied
apple, until the huge beast tired .of searching his empty pockets, with
his snout, dexterously pushed that article up Hall's back, audripping
his coat from top to bottom, sucked his shirt dut'about a feet. - The
keeper observing his playfulness struck him gently across the snout
with an iron bar, and relieved, Hall from his interesting situation;
upon which that gentleman,.without waiting to tuck in his unmena
tionables, put in hot haste for the door, leaving the ladies to the tender
mercies of Dick Foxy and me who both being under bang took
advantage of the opportunity to reinstate ourselves.
Dick being first, took Misa.Clara, and Ito my great joy Miss Estolle
had no objection to allowing me: to show her the hyenas and other'
etcetera .
I had no opportunity te set myself right upon the itnportait ques.
tion that then -kept my heart..topsy-turvey, and the carriage at'the
door of the tent, at the close of the exhibition, relieved both Diek and,
myself of our lovely charges without' one word of explanation, as to
the unfortunate fix I was in  egard to them both.
]The next morning the menagerie put out for Lemonskeezer, wad
about ten o'clock: the town was thrown ixito consternttiox by tei
4rriival of all the wagots back again, with the intelligenethAt CONWmst
bua haid, killed his 'keeper, ad had pursued them almost to town.he.
camel was missing, anid:itwas afterward ascertained that the elephat
hi4so destroyed that animal.
As was displayed in the streets ,of.Sevatopiol, upon the news of th
battle dfthe Alma,,so *as' the soeeithat, morning in Redsick,!ken

I

't"
''   ;
i  '.
}',
i
' . 1 t a
a w
t
'1
'
s
i    }
-f

-4

FA

"t ,
6:
i
:
_ J


79

RE=sTtit; olt,

I

I

'.

it was known that the savage animal was at large, untrammeled, and
wrought up to his highest pitch of fury by the sight of blood.
-Women and children ran screaming with terror up and down the
street, and the male population ran wildly to and fro, loading revolvers,
rifdes,.shot-guns; and every species of firearm in the place. Ever.Ty
now and then the sharp crack of. a rifle denoting that some one had
discharged at old load,:would draw a shriller-scream from the i inen,.
who thought sure'that'-the elephant was upon them. All that day
scoutsgon foot and on horseback came and went from the scene of the
revolt, and they reported that he confined himself to a neck of woods
some four miles in extent; and distant from any habitation, he was'
amusing himself by tearing up small trees and screeching like forty
steamboat whistles united i one.'
The next morning, at an early hour, small parties began to leave
town, to participate in the grand hunt after the elephant.'
In company with a German friend of mine, I armed and equipped
as the law directs, that is, provided with a rifle, loaded with slugs, a1nd'
a'small pocket pistol, cocked 'and primed, with eaudevie; off we put,-
I on foot and he on horseback; for such 'was' the universal request
horses were in, that I could not procure one for love or money, I
had, hoWever, as the day was warm,' procured an enormous cotton
umbrella, *hich, as my friend Snicks' was peculiarly susceptible to
heat, was a constant source of annoyance to him.
.I 4 If' it has not bin I don't want to go backs to town, cauze I'm
feared dis''peoples will some of dem bese killed ef I'm not dere- to
kil' de dam bis; I would go back an get my umberel-dam de son,
what for he shine hot like blaze to-dey? Dis is shust de way all de
time when I have got not de umberel,' it is hot shust as fire, by dam-"
And he went on recounting to me the many elephant hunts in which
he had participated, when in India, and advising me what to do if I
was hot pressed by the animal. "E'f he pus you close shust get up
soelittle tree you no can find; you no he pulls up de big tree, but de
little one he no can wind his nose around."
"All right, old horse, take care of yourself, Ill be bound he don't
get me," I exclaimed.
"" Takes care of self! Got for dam, I have killed ten of dese big
bugs in one day.   f you know how you can manages him it is not
trouble more dan de odder insecks. I have not for come only I am
bery fraid some of dese peoples' geets killed, de dam fools.
: HePb he proposed a swap with me, I to take his horse, and he to
take ray umbrella. As we were very close to where report had accred'
ited; tie elephant t6 be, I cheerfullyacceded. I had got on the horse,
and was fixing my feet' in the stirrups, when a yell from Snicks ap-
prised me 'that we'were in danger. Quick Fas thought I reined 1p,
and discovered the elephant breaking for us- though a small lung
Of'I plings,' aiong 'which 'he:hid been concealed.
j"  hniien Got; gimn me: mine' hoss, quick---look at him 1 Oh
61(

SCENES Iti THE SOUTH.
aiine wife and even childer. Stop! stop !" he exclaimed, as I went
clattering down the road, "let me on behind."
"Save yourself," I shouted, as I pummeled the pony with heels
ind fists; no time to swap horses now; and it wasn't just about then,
for a more ferocious looking beast I never saw. Snicks was hot
pressed; he attempted to clinib several trees, but gave up the idea so
often, that the elephant came very near getting him; at last he
crawled under a hollow log, which the elephant ran over two or th-ee
fimes in looking for him, and his immenspweight nearly crushed poor
Snicks.
"As for me, on I went like a streak of mighty slow lightning, aX
just as I began to draw rein, I looked around, and there he came
booming up the road, his snout raised high in the air, his red mouth
wide open screeching like blazes; you could have heard his ears flap.
ping against his thick hide a mile off.
He was gaining upon me fast, when I came upon the advance
guard of the Redstickers, who had marched out in battle array to
kill him. Jenimima! what a scattering took place when I came down
upon them shouting, "The elephant! the elephant! Look out! look
out !" Although scared almost into fits myself, I had to laugh at the
scampering and yelling that took place. One fellow on a big black
horse rode over two or three on ponies, and the way they dismounted
and climbed the roadside trees, would have shamed the very monkeys
themselves.  A  Frenchman who wis loaded down with loaded
muskets ran'into the cane and brush that lined the road, and when he
was discovered next morning fifteen miles from the place where he
disappeared, not a soul in the place could recognize his scratched and
bunged up face.
At every turn of the road we would come upon parties of five or
ten onfoot, and on horseback, riding along boasting and bragging of
their individual prowess, and in happy unconsciousness of danger
when we would come tearing, spurring and yelling down upon them
like a young tornado. The change, that would then come over the
spirit of their dream would be most stgrtling;- throwing down their
guns, those on foot hid in the hollows, or climbed trees, and those on
horseback would block up the road, in their operate efforts to all
turn at once, and some of them would go down, horse and rider, be-_
fore our furious charge. It was curious to see the pitiful expression
on some badly-mounted fellow's countenance, as one after another of his
better-mounted companions would go tearing by him; he would look
around at the enemy as he came down the road in hot pursuit, throw-
inr aside, or tossing into the air, the saddles, guns, coats and urm-
brellas with*which the road was sprinkled, every now and then stop-
ging and ccking his red eye at some; fellow up a tree, give a squeal
and then proved to attempt, by winding his trunk around the tree,
toohake him down.
At one turn of the road we- came suddenly up o Monsieur Jea

t
4
J.
3
i   'y 7
S
_
':a
4
,


REDSTICK; OR,

Baptiste, etc., Tonnerre, who, bestriding a.sorry rmule, wasusing all the
variations of the universal acre, in cqnnvotion with, a small limb of a
tree, which he. brought down on the mule's quarters with a bang,. in
order to make him cross a small alough and, proceed in the direction
of the elephant, of whose approach Tonnerre was up to, this moment
unconsciouss. The mule was,;standing with, his 'feet all placed deter-
minately forward, his ears down and Tonnerre-pounding away like fury.,
"By grass, I nevaire see sich hoss;fby. gar, nevaire.-nevaire. I
sall po see de kill of do big bulefant,.by gar, tis one grand shame, by,
gar. Oh! oui you will nof"go eh? vat's ze use you tell me vid dat
dam bad tongs," (as the mule began to bray), "you say no vid your
feets, you say no vid your hears, you say no vid you all ovaire, an by
grass, you hollaire nevaire, nevaire vid your 'acre tongs; good-ko
is well, by gar, ven I sall keels ze bulefant, X sall puts you in his
belly, by gar. Hi vat is 'yat ? ze bulefant is ,veri-O-h, mon Dieu
savez moi! helps we,. jentilhommes, pulls mqdalong ; by gar, I am in
de feex; help me-mon diem I am keel.sev-e-ral times."  .
"Turn your mule around,," we shouted, which he hastily did but
the mule only turned, and that was all; he proceeded to kick up, and
just as I was passing on my jaded horse he run sideways against me
and down we came together., The elephant was close upon us, and
rising I broke for a couple of trees that stood about ten paces off the
road, preceded, however, by Tonnerre whose fears lent wings to his
heels; throwing his arms around a tree, he yelled, " Clime de tree for
me, Oh mon Dieu!, de tree est no clime me. Sacre! I am Jini, by
grass, my wifet and, leetle cheeldren'is all vidders now.", Perceiving
that he could not climb I helped him up and then with difficulty climbed
the next tree, the bark of which was so smooth that I slipped two or
three times before I succeeded in getting up.
The elephant was engaged in tossing Tonnerre's red coat high ia
the air, and catching it with his tusks, upon perceiving which Ton
nerre commenced yelling to me:
" Mon Dieu! I have one hongler dollar and a gole vatch in my new
coat zat dat dam bis est zamine vit his toot picks. Vous hear me,
Monsieur, I Val geeve you fife dollar eef you go run him away so I
cin gettee mon vatch."
"Hush up you villain," I exclaimed, for our trees were none of the
largest, and his confounded clatter attracted the animal's attention.
Butthe elephant seemed content with the coat and did not bother us
for the-moment,
I climbed higher up the tree to get a view of the flying crowd, which
Toninerre pereeying, he commenced yelling to me again:
"You no; fair, by dam, de bulefant est trapped me fus; come down
ze same as I am, eef you be a jentilhomme." But paying no attention
to hij, I climbed.still higher, and44e, trying to emulate me, came pretty
nigh tumbling out and breaking his' confounded neck, From - up
vhere I could get a good view of the roadr the scene, was curious.,

SCENES IN THE SOUTH.

c81

it
4'

6

)

I

*'he 'flying squad' had augrhented t, some seventy-fie and were
whipping and spurring as if the beist was right upon them. At every
turn they would.stillcome upon small parties quietly j6ging on to the'
scene of the elephantine war.,, The scrambling, turning and whipping
of horses would then he terrifies Those that were dismounted wouli
takb to the nearest tree, and the-balance would scamper on; At one
plack 'here two wagons were hitched, and occupied nearly; the whole
of the road, the confusion was indescribable; some jumped the fence,
and' he fellowon the  big black " hoistedhis horse into. the wagon
neapost to him,.:rode' cover. three 'barrels of:flour, six plows and two
ngger babies, and then ldaped his. horse: to the ground on the other
sale.'
iMy attention.was' soon 'called to matters nearer home; Owing to
Tonneire's continued fuss about his coat, the attention of the elephant
was attracted to us, and he came tearing at the treesin the tops, of
which we were located.
Tonnerre's actions and fears were indescribable. Clutching the
tree with legs and arms he frantically essayed to climb up higher, but
in vain; he was howeviei oufof the elephant's reach, and that animal
did not attempt to bring him down in that manner, but winding his
trunk around the fee, he plleduQ d  ugged in vain; in the mean
time Tonnerre was in an agony of fear; every shake of the tree would
be recorded with, a corresiending yell ad elevation ot his hair, until
it stuck straight out like the ' neck feathers " of a cowed dunghilll."
:"Mqn-Dieu! am I to be manger in dees mis-ra-ble mannaire*+wliat
for I com to see dis biss?. instead geet kiIll'-:-eat me, fuss my coat, den
meself. ' Oh! -Monsieur, eef you-hollaire avec moi, we make de bule-
fant, tink dere is sev-e-ral peeps: in does tree,:en den maybe he weel
geet fright an den goes away to sum odder place.".
But I uttered iot a'word, the close 'proximity of the fearful. beat
was enough to raise the hair on!my own head.'
"'Re is well, by grass,? muttered Tnnerre, taking 'fresh conrage-
at the ineffee.tual efforts oft the elephant. . "Ke is very well---he not
tink bout stem on 'his nos and kick' me out with dem dam large big
foot-.-he 'is geet me ,den.. Nevery mine, ele 'frei, eef I vish I can
come down en pul your;nose. till your teese bleed; haw-you cock
dat leetle red eye at me,-what for dat sich ting as dat is made? he.
ees no bon for work, no good for eat.;-noting at all but run shentil-
mea comme moijeen deese' dam torn tree. Eef.I gets out I novill have
de shirt pour nextSunde. Bonsoir, ole hoss !" heishouted, a the ele.
phant took after the mulepnd left his post at the footiof ourtrees.
" Gev'moi besiesresyeek to &amp;MissJulefant, anlall zee-leetle bulefantg..
Vewilleouree hoine; asso as'You' have, catch datdam acre di'ble of
do boss dat kin run I' 'perceeb fdrhiaself, butkin ,nd go for moi.'
When he had.4isippeared wellid Ao dan4 a hurry, and Tofinerre grab"n
bing up his coat we put like quarter-horses across;ithe fields to 4Qwah
When we arrived there we found that the scared citizens hadlockaded i

8I


82

BEDSTICK ;OR

the road with; fence rails and';that all- of us *ha.were-treed weie
reported-dead. ,No one slept a winkithat7night in'Re4stick, and the
tales of magn/ieent daring that went the rounds, we1e 'enough to
startle any one not cognizant with thefacts.,
Tonnerre swore that he 'run thi3 blefant tWo miles with a fence
rail, and apologized for the thorn serhtches all over his face by saying
that the elephant grabbed a f'torn tree wid his nose  and fought himn
with it.
,After 'being at liberty for three days, and-'after scattering two
military' coippanies, who came out from. Lemonskeezer to capture him,
our redoubtable' enemy gave in, and was led off -by a volunteer from
amohg the cage men, who walking quietly up behind him, soothed
him with gentle,,wdrds,;until he obeyed disorders and followed  itn
up to the cages of the other beasts.

CHAPTER XX11I.
The chairs were placed, the curtains drain,
And soon the-magic chain wa formed ;
The spirits came, 'but all'.forlorn-,

W~tthrougI theair ut-n horn.
UNPUBLISHED TRAGEDY.
MY probation was nearly over; and, therefore, I was not surprised
at meeting both the Misses.Smythe at-the.house of Colonel Duchapell6,'
one,'evening, when I came over in acceptance;of an invitation to par-
tidinate in a kind of "tableturning: and spirit-raising  convention,
then and there held.
Thel party wascomposed of about twenty of both sexes, arid we
soon had the tables hopping all over the room. 'Any question that
was asked was immediately and accurately answered, by alphabetical
knocks, 'and there was hardly one who did' not leave fully convinced
'that Old Colonel D.'s spirits were the real genuine quality.
"Ofwhat a'e is' Mr. Hall?" was asked; and we were surprised at
the spirits answering "Twenty-one ydis, six months, two weeks, one
-day, three hours, and fortyiseven minutes."
",Oh, Mr., Hall, is that correct?"
"Yes, ladies and I assure you that-no one knew my age but myself,.
and if he had only mentioned the seconds, I would have believed in
spirit all my days.,
Here a toery diffieult-,question w"  asked by the old maid"of the
place, who asserted ifithe spirits would only inform her correctly, if
she was married or nodt,,she, *ould place infinite reliance upon them.
ever ,after. iThe "Question was asked, and not a soul- spoke fr ten
minutes after the solemn answer:'-
"i-e'"'es lapped out.

S t
1

SCENES IN THE SOUTA.                   88
Rising to her feet, Miss Pinch'-(the 1 dy in question)'cast a looN 90
inexpressible scorn Qver the assemnly,' anid flatly remarkipg that we
we parcel of fools ti listen tosuch nonsense, she left te 9nom,
'nd shortly afterward the house.
After her departure .we cut -up finely for-a while, but the spirits
came too easily for us to enjoy their vipts, and accordingly, we soon
begIn to get tired .of: the fun. Mac -being present, said that if the
lights were all put out, he would cause aft isolated hand to appear
and'stand for a minute in the iiddfe of the roqI
This proposition 'being hailed with pleasure, the lights were q
bqW ou-t tand for eIew mornents the room was.asdl as if it wso
uiiobcuIpie d.          oens      er
Suddenly a bright thought struck me, which I  hastily proceeded
to put into execution. Slipping quietly to th§ othe4 end of the rig,
I lent over and stole, a quiet kisfrom theJady who was seated at that
end.' -   , la me," she" exclaimed, as I tole, on tippo,o the nt
one, -and repeatedtie pyration,;and ,so, on all. the wy around, ethj
exclamations of" What s that " "Oh "- and "La me!" being sup-
posed to be expressions of wonder at the appearance of a glowing
hand hanging suspended in the dark.
It looked so unnaturydv that   , I dis jware beginning to get
frightened, when all t'once the hih&amp; c6mmence'd'struggling violently
Up and down and Miss-ftellencommepce4'hllQnpjg for assistance.
"I've got it,-t'aa man,-.make haste,-brin  a light,"-which
somebody doing, the Hnnorable Mr. Mac was fod  i the custody of
Miss Estele,.,with hi hand covered ilth osphlorus.
Mac looked as guilty as if detected in sheep-stealing, but most of
the girls were top angry at something, to poke fun at him. They whjo
look at us and frown, and some of them :you  mutter -'
*qh! Iwsh m       b"b h
"'Oh i  my b.rothr Wvs hera .
All this was of coi se, unintelliiei iejo ut and.whenthey *rose
-n  bo4yd    4A     on d"left t
in abody and l We oomn, we were struc wit ,ainazement
-    a t is ,it whoa the s tt er ?  we ,'  pxclAiu e, and slt e
girl 6tabout ten years of age pertinently informed us:
"Sore of you- egtlenen kisseddhiu,. allin thedark.
How do youknowit, sis, "asked-all.
y,  know it; ie kissed Miss Estelle Sm  lew*ho atne  tq.
me and then when he wemgt:to kisa mehe 'umpe_ his nose againethe
wait because I was 'too short  - -              -
Ij ere I1;in-Conti'entl
se ve  iy feltof               y 4X Pbut f9rtunately o oe pi
ot we wore, Cogtgwyt         p   .g     al    n   ae     .
eve nwhsyouq plee, and iunmeately proposed, as      e prete4et
ev Aen* c aug  hat itwayanhttishhaadtattwpIshqukmt iysge  .
perimet Ia am -                                    - ,
The :Iigls were a si, blopi ou$ and silenopxes.pigi   a.
Isuspecte( some trick, and kept my seat. N't even the temptation

t ',
1
IA

e"

j
t F
,t
zi
F
,
4.


f

REDSTICK; OR,
fMs19 Estehe, sitting albnst, alongside of me, could with iraw iMe
rmth Ihy'seat. With ears 11'tteitioni 'I 9oon heard the rustling of
dresses,'  d the soft fall'or hei feet on the floor,
"'Lok  oit, Hal, for youdielf,"'qtioth I, "keep your seat, you've
had .enough to pight,"
At thigh inoif'ent' I 6ould hea 'bussing.'all around the room, and I
euid hardly'hold riijsb'f dow i'
Not satisfied with goiug round once, some of them wept around the
circle two or'three' tinies, and the sudden centre df the gAle, each one
bearing a cndle, al6ne'ut, a stop t the kissiig  and 'there, oh,
&amp;i'roes ! m'  ir places'sat ten of  e blackest nigge? wenle  on the
pantation. Jerimima- didn't "them fella's "squat donti mntanter,
h one protesting ,that he had not stirred from his.mieat; 'but a tell-
t e mark of;ot4baek on each sobered face, with the exception of
emi*; told toowell'the' fact.
'The girls hadr1ien as b4on as the lights were blown out, and bya
preencerted pla,   te  egro wemen, each one with a patch of pot-
b1ek brn her. cji , 4t0le sotly ip nid '9k i pla
CH      rPT 19XIIt.
Gay h a6hooklhis dark enAs baik,
And moutited his stsd then prancing
. o carry J)'m)opto his, dark-eyed one.
Who in thqmeatirbe, I regret to say.
Had anarrid inother'fellbw £ heap more ecdtrancing.
'f As the Sabbath day,'and the westerti 'bound sun nee- kissed his
adieus to a lovlier scene tantht sunny tooko'eg which lie'i adept
watch, with his  laying eye, duriyg that long tutumh da. 'Iis vits
wde   o* becoiin"g sioffe i  duration, and his warm' kiss in the
morning did 'ot ealiven i heeruissot 'Ioats -f 'The'tll tes,wo
sh  edi and'rustled all eight in the cold enbi-aes 'of hise
Jack Frost,.
'Twas the Sabbath eveni g, and at last iy long probation wa over;
and I was at lepgth going tdih in my brde-a'bride I diotiseey-
..ad  6 64ho sought riot me.                    d     A
"Ia   bot heattless?'  ls! dear reader, the e are a thousand
consolations in this world of purs, whichsugir-coA  btter ,pillafe
all~ntdsw'al'. Sonie, ahd h f are nafiy, look -t the naked0pill,
and tear away its sweet surface, preparatorgy to .engulphijmgit,tiut' I
n6*r-do     *hakni.' Ilo061' afon  toI"e,andif[ a  not extrat
&amp;balm~f'cnsolatin  froa sthe qitely ,rose,' awy  lown i the
dusty                                  '0ll6 of'the  '3ibo rtiPlower,  follow the farseeiig
and take what is poison tootlersaasmy honey and heart's-ease.  ,
.U ti               If t 6!h g a  on*at I  Well, here is the double

I

I

,s
s
ss  e
t
t

r

t

SCNES IN THE SOUTH.
extract of the condensed te    A : iss. Clear a was rch, so was't j.
loved \iss   se       ard vould'have, got hrh at lst, but for mycon-
ourideg want of presence' ofuiind. 'But, alas! s es.poor .4d
the xiehes of the pther was the sugar-coat to piy, at tisre 6d
Here we are atthe gate,; and as I slowlyn  te ,felthe writes
of my " Marseilles's spread put eneatl the beating of A perturbed
heart. I hoped that Miss ,stelle was gone 'out, for she muse have
known that that evening; I must come.  utno, there she was on the
ga~ley,the first ore ,o nmeet roe ; ad thzt jumping  heart of mise
aftr giving three or-fo big thump  log  itself necgrely under the
rdots ,o py tongue and there veled an4 ed it utmost.
'Whywiody; I thoUglityou were 1r. all. Didn't you seo any-
thiig o  " g on t  road ? was "the.reotingJ received; and upon
my responmg, that I did'riotobserve thI gentleznan, she said:
" h is VP  late--woA't you cone in?'
,or a time { didn't know whether to accept the careless invitation
or, not but, ;at last, I choked down the bitter, jealous, fpeing -that
nearly oyercomqeme, andwiked into, the p rior.
1  ,here I found Miss Clara, who too  he pains to blsh a* red as a
peopy when I entered. Mr.:Jp1) Randplph Smythe,, Esq.,. Mr, Ben
Gelon, Mr. D~ick 'Foxyr, '(I wonder hew, made .it up with the old
man), Mis I'aclhapelle-and the , verend Mr. Olute, (what the deuce
is he doing here, I thought to myself), all sitting asquiet and demure
as - .coRypn }on of tably cats.,
*  9Siara was dressed (. much like a, bride to suit me, and upon
looking around at the party after getting seated, I thQught that every-
thirg bore a very . bridakind of ap appearance. LeanIng  ,ac,
behind the, windowcurtain, from whence I copld keepan eye on Miss
Estells, who had returned to the gallery, and, was aniXiously gazing
down the road-I thpug4t a heap.
lere is going, to ;,e a wedding here,and f-on appearances, Hal,
you are in for it sure;enough.. p't it was a curious course of pro-
ceeding, Not let rue kanw anythipg .of. it! But, then theyknew of'
my coMing; in fact, I h ad to ene. :at this is pot'-the wvy;I wanted
the thing done. I jvould have likd 4 t ye Jad{ a bwo'ut  I always
intended to have one.when  gorparried,iBut, oh, dear!, they seem
too things, qre without consultingg meIet 'ea rip, however-r-I 40
beylievsatelp Joye  hat confo sded Hall' ,f.sh does ,that's some
consolation anyhow.ar
Ilere; took, lool t tAgt. lady,  hleaed, agalvstthe ipillar of
the gallery, and was musing upon the sti-ange things that 4o. sa-
times turn up in a man's life, when Hall and Mac, di-essed within an
inchf thpir livesd4ove p and disAunte  ;  ,  '    ,
I wpodered wiq had invitedd tenth e anyhqw, bitwonderedntil
more upon seeing Hall cIs8 'Mi8s .Estelk. Jenimima j I#aide l4h*y
lovingly entered the parlor together. Just then, as I turned around


t3
(I

86                       REDSTICK; OR,
from the window, Miss Dqchapelle sat down beside me, and leaning
-ovelt comtneneed' wpisperiri n 'a 'low tone.
4""tknow all about'It; Mias Lucy, and you see I have cbme at the
4ppdipted'ftine to see it out."
" "Who 'IodA-eshe was going to say something more, when the,
Reverend Mr. Clute tapped rue on the shoulder, and taking me by the
:*146, ed   rit6 the corner, and asked re if I  4d got , the license.
Ia" dumfoundered, bit inanaged to mutter out "No-I had for-
Oh, never mind,,"he observed, "Mr.1 Hall rbbably has gt it
buit1 Ifather' ex'bcted you wopd ge it ourself.'
'j So didl ,whe1ri -1cnie*to think of' it, bV  Hall is mighty clever
.Who asked'hiim to meddle in 'thd "birhiess? I muttered td myselff,
\takihg indther iiw o-f his dleverndss when I ca me to tliik -of his
li~sig Estelle. ' i a    eiinemed mg Seat, by the sde of Mi'saDuch-
apel ,'and "replidtto herfuiny questions, ith a 'res or no, dust 'as
the word happened to be on'my lip; for I *as anxiously observing
Ctlik party 'and' was surprised at Mac's unaceourptable dohiduct.
4We hadinot-been nieai- me during the day,,and avoided me even now.
It was very strange. TBit a question from my fair' companion, ere
'ltxterrnpted niudirgs, and  'turned my eyes upon her.  She was
*strParelyibekutifulI"that evening, and,'I almost fell in love with her.
[tfow useless' these mad thdhght , I muttered, as I'again' turned away.
'TiB liike the poor cdnvrct as h 'looks hig -last upon the bright, beauti-
r'fl world ftom 'which' one -iiove' of .the turnkey's hand- cuts him off
for ever. Everything looks thrice more beautiful, and fiow to me
' this liwerlt my sid6 is thtide more ntrancing that I ama ab6ut to
-kdebafrmyself foreve''from her.
Herea- general uri iti of the company; warned tne that I was
1&amp;'4t in my place, an  I walked up by the side of Miss Clara, 'as we
pall 'fortned- 'a lime "iri front of the' reveiend gentleman. " Old Mr.
Smythe formed the extreme left, then, next,)Miss Est6ill, *ith }Iall
(ohl her right;' ,then Ma, then Misa Clara and imyself,'Miss 'Ducha-
pelle on my-right and the rest on 'her right. I'-I4as gzing abstractly
I upoA6the. buttons of the reverend gent's Waistcoat, as" he turned the
L-pages of his book, when a'gentle tap'from Miss-DuChArelle attracted
-iwfa attention, and leaiig -over toIne,she whispered:
S"Get itoa the left of Mis" Clara."  With such a "*hAk you" as
S crates gave the !bearer'of' the poisoned chalice. I moved mechani.
'ally i Mae's plahe, As that entleman with suffud6 face and down-
cast eyes took mine.
t  Will-yhk have' this lady as' your lawfu wife ?" etc., and RAcl  in
-, firm voice replied
willll" -r *' -
Had a flash of lightning strek ma to-the earth, I could' not bave
'beenr more surprised  -So thaeis the way you revenge yourself, is iA
V~issEstele                                 I

O

'Vell, that is all that is wanting, and I thought I loved Miss Clara
tI %e more strongly thyn ti had 14V4d Ihir.1 It nerved me up to go
through my own part of the ceremony, and when Mr. Clute was
through, and moved down in froit of us, I was as determined as ever
I was before in my life.
"Will you have ?" etc., he asked, and just las I was abbut to sy I
will, i as determined a toneias event I uttered, a weakcfeeble "will '
came from Mae on Mis- Cla's right.
I did not fainiitI did not stagger or fall, but every musele in ty
frame seemed as if turned to stone.! The presence of mind that had
often failed to, sustain me inless trying scenes than'-this-caine now to
my aid; and none were seemingly heartier in theit' congratulations
than I was when -that"long and!trying ceremony was over. - What
though the hand that shook theirs and the -lips that pressed their
fqlse ones, (for I went through it all) were ast cold as mnarble, were
-ot the words,:the hollow actions there, and, thank the powers that
be, -twas all-they asked of me.''
I went home that night 'with Miss Dudhapell6, and* though' sick
and weary of the subject; managed to understand it all before I left
her at her father's house.,  -
Clara's promise was' to blind' her father, who objected to  ac;
and shei being engaged to me, he -of-,course had' no objections to
Mac's, visits, until wrought up by artful complaints of my neglect, -he
had given his consent to Mac's weddig her.
Estelle,.piqued at my supposed treachery, married Hall, who got a
rich wife at last, for she turned out to be joint ieiress with her Cousii
in her uncle's estate. 'Luckily-for me,' (for I'would have beenilau'"hede
out of the county) the trying part I underwent was not -susjected.
Miss Duchapella had. been requested to informi ame of the'change
in affairs a week before,,-but did-hot see me until we all  rket'that
evening, and my ready answer -of "Iknow all'aboutit," ete, on
surprised her that I had become informed of 'it frotn another ouire
The Reverend- Mr. Clute's question, relative to the license, 'wa all
explained, -by my then quick -conceptions that h supposed' that 1
carried Hall's license for him.- .
Miss Lucy and I became fast friends; and she never guessed ,1y
secret. Wasn't it all pretty financiering?              4

SCENES IN THE "SOUTH.


*8

RED8TCK ; ON,

C iAFPTER X 1XV.
FarcwellJobnI. . The 1airs of the day are o .
THE nxt daywasa among, wearisome ode'o me. Mte and'Hall did
fvey  Itwihou  them.
not aome to -town, and in fact I .got along ieywellwtotte.
The slowly flirting hours were passed -by ine-a schemin'g and cogi-
toting, planswherewith to:get out of the scrape in.which; though un-
suspetedl ,y, others, yet nevertheless' I was in, and I was afraid that
wihen: I -caat expected it, it would all come, out upon me. 'Wild'
h9ghtPof leaving the countrY'litted' through my brain; but I had
too good a practice t ,leave kad besides 'knew the -laugh wold
follow me wherever I wet.
At last I resolved to -marry;some one before the week.was out; or
lasteengage yngyself satight, that this. tinte, at' least there should
be no mistake. But who should it be.? ,:Those I couldiget I wouldn't
havcrandose I wanted, wouldn'thave me.; and to make matters
spre,       w.Iewas no' one' ofmy unmarried lady acquaintances who
stood upon the middle 'ground of this to me 'vexed question.
go)yer     aaded up myinddt6 -sel'ect; oneby chance, and who-
ever she nigh the, " buk up,.to he", and try my luck. Therefore,
gathering up all the, loose cards of Mao's and mine, I wrote down' in
pencil upon'them, the nAmes of tenor fifteen:of those whom I would
like.yery well to get, but couldn't.: Shuffling them upip.a hat, and'
baking jhera-up for t Wnmutesalestbfoe         I tthe, hat
dow, I, put in my hand;and took hold of one of the cards, but with-
outihdrawing it I let it go, and shook them agaim. It was too im-
]portat a mptter tobe decided by one shake. Plunging inrmy. hand
agpip I; 4rpw out a card, and looked at, the blank back for some ten
1utes,, before I could nuater courage enough to face my fate and
turn it oer, H;ere, upon the ivory surface of; this tiny bitiof paste-0
boa, is' inscribedthe name ,of the. gentle one, with whom' our fate
te be inked forever, providedowever,, that you u  aft get her.
I ttle do you now think, gentle one, of the momentous epoch:in your
-UA,,Uowependent upon the' tuiroing 'of- this carl. I then fell-into
a deep fi of musing, as to, withroha lived, n town or the country,
the color of her eyes, whether she was of the rich or poor Class of
cards, which together went into thb hat of fate, etc., etc.
At last, I mustered courage and mechanically turned the card over,
keeping my eyes fixed in the meantime upon the ceiling. After a few
minutes more of musing I brought them down by an effort to the
card and started back horror-struck-for, oh, cruel fate, it was blank!
(JusSing my neglect in not marking all the cards, I carefully took
out the remaining blank strips, and then repeated the experiment,
this time in a hurry, for the day was.drawing near a close, and I Nas
determined to pop the question that night.

SCENES IN THE SOUTH.
Drawing out  the card, I was gratified on reading the name of Lucy
Duchapelle  Whoop! if she would only have inei thought I; but then
there was'no h8pe in that' quarter,,and I sank'back, dejected in the
deep old easy chair. Try it, Hal, whispered my good or evil  eniu,
I didn'tthen-know which, Maybe she will-but then the flood ofcon-
tradictory evidence that flooded my only basis of hope-i-try.
Well, heregoes it, and I swear, if again disabpointed, I leave this
neck of the woods, and, that too in haste.
Di easing 'myself with the utmost care, Y sat through the evening,
until it was.time to go overhand 'see the'lady of my choice; thinking,
turning and, twisting my cranium, or rather its contentsin-every way,
in order to scare up sombmode of procedure, but in vain, I was
forded to set tout without any well-digested plan, trusting alone to
that chance that heretofore had got me into so many difficulties and
then, outt of them.
I started out, and+ upon arriving:at' her residence was gratified at
finding her at home and alone. All the emotions which rendered me
so incapable of action, upon the occasion of my firstvisit, with the
same object ir view, in company with many others-engendered by
the knowledge that I here was about to make an attempt not influenced
by the encouragement I had received from the'-other 'party, came over
my benumbed senses, and it :was eleven' o'clock before I recovered
myself sufficiently to understand upon what subject'we vere talking,
"She is lovely, I thought, as she quietly sat in the deep parlor
'rocking-chair, unconscious of the many whirling thoughts ohasing each
other through my, brain. .'Hei calm, dark 'eye was bent'upon the floor,
as she sat thinking whatnext to say to engage me in conversation,
for I was unable to keep up 'any topic she broached. Her deep jet-
black curls lay in a mass upon either side of the beautiful face they
80 gracefully shaded,. and I-I; grown desperate at the fix I was ii-
almost wished -she: had not been so very beautiful, that:my chances
had been better.
Hal, this will never do, thought I; and wrought u to the highest
pitch, I almost shouted:
"Miss Lucy !" (Startled, she turned her eyes full upon me, and it
was done), "did-didity did-you go-go to church last Sunday ?"
"Why, yes," she replied; "didn't yo'u accompany me
"Oh! ye-yes; but--I-;.-forgotV'
Here we again relapsed irito a speice which was broken by the
mantel-clock striking twelve. Now or never; courage, Hal.
"Miss Lucy."
"Well,V she exclaimed, as I thought, in a semi-petulant tone, which
again threw me "hors de combat."
"Wer- -well-'tis time for me to leave."
I suppose she thought it was time too, but she said nothing. As I
got to the door, hat in hand, I stopped and looked down upon the
floor. To go home without the satisfaction even of a refusal, would


:.f
F
a

REDSTICK ; OR, SCENES IN THE SOUTH.

be to suffer the torments again Which had' alicted me all that day,%
and I determined, as I could not muster courage enough to pop the
question, to bid her farewell atleast, for I was determined to leave
Redstick on the morrow.
" Miss Lucy," I exclaimed, "I have, I know, acted inexcusably to-
night, but the fact is I am going away to-morrow, and the thought
that I perhaps.would never see you again has paralyzed any powers
of conversation I may have possessed," (gathering courage from her
flushed and puzzled countenance), "and I Came to-night to propose
to you a question, the answer of which was so uncertain, that, added
to the cause I have mentioned, has made me act-Miss Lucy, do you
love -me !" I exclaimed, and)it, was outat last.
No answer came, but she turned and walled slowly to her chair.
Seating herself, she looked curiously. and with a puzzled expression
into the fire. I followed and sat down beside her--and there we
sat. Every'!nowand then I furtively glanced at her glowing counte-
narlce, but could see nothing in its expression to lead me to hope.
The clock struck one before either of us spoke. If she loves me it
can, not be any extraordinary love, .or she certainly would have
made up her mind before this. Leaning over, I took her unresisting
hand,. and passing my other arm around her waist, her head fell
gently over toward me, and I received one of: those silent answers
which pass -from lip to lip and leave the useless ear nothing to
record.I
Happy was I. No work--,no essay-on that fragile subject, could
describe the glowing, thrilling feelings that leapt from string to string
of my, trembling frame; and if a just man enjoys happiness, then
indeed she played "upon a harp of a, thousand strings." -I was just
about to ask her again, "Do you love me ?" in order to receive the
"thrilling answer," when over went my office chair, and I came ge
bang upon the floor. Gentle reader, pity me, foriit was all a-dream.
I had fallen asleep in my ofAce, and awoke sprawling upon tbe floor.
The Honorable Colondl Purse and Miss Lucy Duchapel'A were
married last Christmas, and I warn't even invited to.the wedd 'ag.
TUE ZRi

0

(

T H N
EM1PRESS'OF, THE-ISES
TIlE LAKE BRAVO.
A ROMANCE CF. TIIE CANADIAN STRUGGLE IN 1831,
BY CIIA R LEYYCLEW LINE.
CINCINNATI:
PUBLISHED BY UT. P. 'JAMES,
NO. 167 WALNUti STREET.

,

90


I P
it

IMPRESS OF THE ISLES:
OR,
THE LAKE BRAVO.'
CI A.PT 13 W  I.
rile FAIRY ISLAND AND Ti[E STRANoG.R Y OUTH-TE LONE GRAVE-A viMe
ION OF BEAUTY-TLIE RUFFIAN -AND TiiHESUUE.
"Defore him, in the inornirf ,in,
Brighter thin ever his Omal hs.i  e rined,
li"i other world before him gleaned."
Tue: lake voyager. as lie descends the maganificent. St Lawrence. if it
happens to be a fine. pleasant day. and he is on deck at. the time. will
noL lsd to notice. as the noble steiner in which hlie has embarked hauls
up by the foot of Carlton Island. a beautiful islet some three miles
ahead, and a little oi the starboard bows, ahost in the fair way
between the larger island just left eastern and the young rock-founded
city of Clayton, (formerly French Creek ) on the American side.  As
the steamer approaches and sweets along within fifty yards of a little
grassy promontory that forms the western extremity of the miniature
island, the view is delightful beyond description. That portion of the
island next the main hand. frnm wlhieh it is separated by a narrow
channel, is covered with a demise growth'of native forest trees. while
thc foreground. conprisinmg an area of more than a hundred acres. is
destitute of wood, save here and there a giant old oak and a few droop,
tug willows, that skirt the banks of a narrow winding inlet which opens
out near the peninsula, and runs up iito the very centre of the island,
where it terminates in   in  s'  irettlar1itt form, and so exquisitely
beautiful in all its faii1y1blfiigm ifo  illow -fringed shores. pure himpid
waters. ansi p 11,104  tile fibol  hlfaitnge(viflid As! thediian snow-erest
with myriads of wqiqr life, tg tb ony;pptUred voyager involuntarily
exclaim's - how b   fuli   tne w it steaci'er Iears him on, and ho
now and then catches a transient glauce of the sylvan picture.

i

:,
,,
=
#
"'.
.  t .
3
. :
. 2 ,l
" r ,
f

During the summer 'months, this cleared portion of the little islet it
clothed with a luxuriant growth of red and white clover, the grateful
aroma of which is born by the soft sulnmer winds for, miles:away
aong theqigricacies of a hundred narrow, winding channel of neigh-
boring  islands." I I II                 I    '. II   ), I
'Suchis" ind"'sIsland, one of the most lovely of  that celebrated
group which stud the bosom of the mighty St. Lawre ce, and are known
t- travellers as the "Thousand Islands.'
There is a sad story-almost a legend now--of ti is little gem of the
St. Lawrence, wlch I will tell you just as I have card it a hundred
times from the people at.French Creek and many o the farmers living
along the river near the island.
Early, otne morning in the month of May, 1817, a ohooner, bound
down the river, stopped at French Creekj ,nud landed a delicate, fair-
haired girl, with several heavy trunks, and then immediately got under
weigh again, and proceeed on her voyage. The girl wa, apparently,
about eighteen, very richly dressed, and a tqtal stranger to everybody
in the village, and of courieeverybody wondered what on, earth she had
come there for. But it was soon ascertained tbat the! stranger had
money, which was sufficient to make hera welcome visitor anong the
simple-minded villagers,.and invest her with an air of important par.
ticularly with the proprietor of the village inn, of whom she engaged
rooms for an indeflnite,period, and paid him a quarter's rent and bqard
in advance, all in gold.
Within three weeks from. the morning- that the beautiful young
atranger landed .at French t reek,a rumor went abroad that she had
a~irchased, frop a farmer, who had previously inhabited, it, the little
island, and was having a small cottage built near the wilkowibasin,,aa it
was called, which she intended as her future residence. People learned
that the deed of the property and the contract for the building of the
cottage were made in, the name of Lin4a Morris,.but that was all they
knew of the mysterious stranger, only that shewps .young, beautifulam.,
an angel,, apd always wore an air of settled melancholy, almost of
anguish, upon her childlike feature* as if some bitter gqief was-preying
upon her heart; and when some two months had gone by from the
morning that she first made her appearance among them, the cottage
was completed, and she removed to her- fairy islet, -the heart's best
affections of all went with her; for all, old and young, -loved the gentle
being, and the older inhabitants of the village, those who kneiw her
best, shook their heads ominously when they spoke of her, andoften
'said--                                                 .
"Alas I poor girl, she-is dying of a broken heart."-
These expressions were' prophetic; for one cold December's afternoon,
more than five months after the young recluse had taken up,'her lone
residence -in the willow cottage, as peopki calledtit, 'a hunter, who'h"d
followed a deer over on these iceto the island, came to the village of
French Creek with a message for the doctor, a good 'old man far past
the prime of manhood, another fqr the dinister, and yet another for
Mrs. Allen, a poor widow of the village, with, whotaLinda hud' been
very intimate during her residence at the inn, requesting themi'o eoaun
over to the island i mqdiately. -The summons was pomptly obeydd,

g1it

4-       THE JEMPRESS OF THE ISLE~S; OR,

I

4;


n ,
I
fi

5

and when they returned tothe village, after an absence of four days, it
was with sad fatces and ladder hearts. for they brought the intelligence
that the beautiful reclus&amp;e. ' Linda of the Island," was dead I'
Within tlireehours after their arrival at the cottage, she had given
birth to a male child, which she confided to the care of the 'ildow. and
then, after impirling her secret to the two kind-hearted old me. and
the foster mother of he new-born babe, she lingered along, hovering
as it were upon the very brink of the grave, for almost four days
longer, when her gentle spirit took its flight to a holier, better world.
Two days after this sa4 event, the whole population-of the village
were assembled at the island cottage. and with a deep solemnity be.
fitting the occasion, the body of Linda Morris was consigned to the
grave, in a spot she had herself chosen, under a venerable old willow,
only a few steps from the cottage. 
The curiosity and exeitemeit consequent upon an event of so extra-
ordinary a nature. gradually subsided-the secret remained fast-locked
in the bosoms of those to whoin it had been confided ; and at length,
when the spring came again, and the Widow Allen removed from
French Crreek to parts unknown, taking with her the infant which had
been entrusted to her care. people began to think that the mystery
would always remain a mystery, and so dismissed it as nuc as possi-
ble from their thoughts.
Thd cottage i-emained: unoccupied for nearly a year after the death
of Linda, when it was accidentally set on fire by some drunken fisher-
nien,'and totally'conumed. The good old niinister of the village held
possession of the island, by virtue of sone writin which he- had re-
ceived from the recluse; and as he *ould allow no one to settle upon
it, or cultivate the soil, it remained for years just as it was at the death
of its mysterious, proprietor, except that the cottage was destroyed, as
already mentioned.'-1,
Such is the story, legend, or' what you will, of Linda's Island ; and
stch, ver nearly as I"have described it, was the appearan, of the'
delightful little islet tt th6' time our story opens, which 'is in the
ninth of May, 1837.
It was within' an hour of noon,' on one of the most gloriously beauti-'
fal May mornings that ever 'dawned upon, the magnificent scenery of'
the St. Lawrence,.that a noble steamer, on her downward courses stop-
ped for a few moments abreast of the little promontory at the western
end of the island, to land a solitary passenger, who, leaping from the
bow of the yawl ag she neafed,1thi white-pebbled beach, turned and
waved an~adie'with his hand to a group of fellow-voyagers that had
assembled near ihe steamer'A gang-way to bid him farewell.
'The steamer went on her wa again, and for full fifteen. minutes the,
lone passenger stood there on the beach with his gaze bent upon the
forms and faces-'of friends, perhaps, on her deck, till they greW indis-
tinct in the dim distance, and finally the steamer herself was lost tc
view in the narroa  wiadingiehanwol among the green islands bel6w the
town of Clayton.
As the 'solitary stranger is destined to play&amp; prominent part in the,

t

THE LAKE BRAVO.

T#Rl EM~f s       FOT       IO   PR
4rama which is to follow. and as we have a most admirable view of him
i lie stands there watching the receding steamer, we may as well
press his form and features upon our minds. so that we may  e
Saled to recognize him again at a glance, whenever and wherever
*e inny chance to meet him ; and meet him again we shall, niost 9
aSsuredly, and often too. before another year has gone by.
g You can see, as he stands there leaning lightly upon the muzzle of
a heavy rifle, highl ornamented withsilver n.qtntings. the, breech of
which he hag daslj4 "n patientJdq*n!iuto the,, lose g" vel of the
bgach, burying it almost to the lock; that he is young, so young tht
.gu are certain he cannot yet have counted his twentieth birth-day; ;
pill it is a form and face of perfect manhood.  His broad chest, nd
*,useular, well-rounded limbs. tell pf uncommon streigthand activity;
l4s face is very handsome and exquisitely fair, almost too fair for A
rian; and yet there is nothing feminine in its expression. The features,
a0 you view them in profile, are of the true Grecian east ; the niouth"'I
is perhaps a trifle too large to be in strict harmony with the otherwise
perf et features; but the rich red lips, slightly parted. disclosing the
sina I even teeth, beautifully white, takes from the mouth every appean-
aneeof vulgarity.  His eyes are dark, and, lit u as they are.b thie
bright *arihmsuqiEg  bliwise itsnsely blie a# tA  hi  le*j  ~ bhs
of oldS, s L     ~wrege'es water en a41m spmmner'sveiing  .V4edil-
Ste arched lyriws, and long silken lashes. an Adalusiah beau 'would
eivy, and his hair-ohI we can never tell its exact color.  We ca
gylyssee that it is of that glorious sunny hue that changes with every
flish  of sunlight-that glossy golden tint so peculiar to Austria's higl-
borni dames ; and then its slight inclination to curl gives it that graed-
f*l, wavy appearance so much admired by all. and which would cause b
8panish maiden to fall in love with it and its wearer at the first
g ante.
HIIHs costume, you will observe, is half nautical in its fashion and
i atrial, consisting .of light duck trousers, spotlessly white; a close-
f tIg jacket of fine lh e .4oth, ornanepted with a profusion of siall
I aid buttons set in double rowan .an the breast, and up the slashed
c affs, almost to the elbow. His head.is covered with a blue cloth cap,
s ch as is worn by midshipmen in the English navy, while a delicate
s arf is knotted negligently about his handsome throat, the ends falling
wq on his breast and half concealing the bosom of a beautifully
e bitoidered shirt, the collar of which you see is open and turned dow*i
over! that of his jacket, thereby adding greatly to his juvenile ai-
p argnce.
For a few moments after tfie steamer went out of sight among the
islands, the youthful stranger remained there leaning thoughtfully
upon his rifle, with his eyes wandering over the gorgeous picture before
him   and then, as if suddeny recollepting that he had visited the
island for other purposes than to stand there upon the beach and gaze
opt japon tb if ldidrivd r seneryhe ftok i6is0' ay'o ithe bank
of the little inlet, # ? rapid pace, until his quick-eye caeght a glimpse
of a white* marble slab, peeping up from amid a little wilderness of
wild flowers and blooming roses that grew in native luxuriance about
a lone gra e  er   awt'cld willow near the eastern- border of a tiby

1


b
f

MRS. cAUDLE'S
CURTAIN LECTURESu

C~'apju

OINCINNATI:
PUBLISHED BY U. P. JA M,
,No. 167 WALNUT STREET.

9

PRICC'TWEPNY-FIVE CENTS.

}!
1
I
1
r


  
             
         
       
   
