
    ----CITATION----
        Norton, John N. (1820-1881). Full Proof of the Ministry .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC7342
    ----FULL TEXT----
         
      
         
            Full proof of the ministry 
            
                 FULL PROOF OF THE MINISTRY A SEQUEL TO THE BOY WHO WAS TRAINED UP TO BE A CLERGYMAN BY JOHN N. NORTON, A. M. RECTOR OF ASCENSION CHURCH, FRANKFORT, KY. "I have taught you publicly, and from house to house."-ST. PAUL. REDFIELD 110 AND 112 NASSAU STREET, NEW YORK. 1855.    Entered, according to Act of Congress, in the year 1854, BY J. S. REDFIELD, in the Clerk's Office of the District Court of the United States, in and for the Southern District of New York. STEREOTYED BY C. C. SAVAGE, 13 Chambers Street, N. Y.    TO THE REV. THOMAS C. PITKIN, A.. M. ASSOCIATE RECTOR OF TRINITY CHURCH, NEW HAVEN, CT. I BEGAN my ministry, my dear and reverend friend, as your assistant, in St. Luke's Church, Rochester, New York;--by your, advice, I took charge of the ittle mis- sionary station at Frankfort, where God of His goodness has poured down upon us the abundance of His blessing; -at your suggestion, this, sequel to a former unpretend- ing work has been prepared;--I can think of no one, therefore, to whom it can be with more propriety inscribed.   O BLESSED LORD! how much I need Thy light to guide me on my way! So many hands, that without heed, Still touch Thy wounds, and make them bleed! i So many feet, that day by day, Still wander from Thy fold astray!  Unless Thou fill me with Thy light, I can not lead Thy flock aright: Nor without Thy support, can bear The burden of so great a care, But am myself a castaway! "ONGFELLOW'S GOLDEN LEGEND.   PREFACE. ALTHOUGH the author had given a conditional prom- ise at the close of a former work, that a sequel might at some future time be written, lhe had little idea that his pen would be so soon employed upon the task. But so many encouraging words were spoken in in ref- erence to what he had ventured to publish, and so many hopes expressed that the other volume might not be long delayed, that he has yielded to the force of circumstances, and, as far as possible, complied with the wishes of his friends. Should this volume meet with as kind a reception as its forerunner, and prove an instrument in God's hands, of aiding any one to render himself more use- ful to the Church, the writer's fondest anticipations will be fully realized. AUGUST, 1854. *e,   ONE of the most certain marks of a Divine call to the ministry is, when it is the full purpose of a man's heart to live for Jesus Christ and His church. They that recommend eternal possessions to others, ought to show by their lives that they are themselves verily persuaded of the vanity of all earthly pleasure, avoiding superfluities. Jesus Christ preached up the contempt of the world, by contemning it Himself. B ISHOP WILSON.   - CONTENTS. CHAPTER I. Old Friends.-Sunday Night.--Anxious Conference.-Incli- nation and Duty.- Rockford.-A Forced Smile.-Distant Regions have Claims .............................. PAGE 15 CHAPTER JI. Duty Triumphs.- Good-Bye.- Cannibals.- New Field.- King- dom which shall never end.--Rev. Moses Latitude. - Par- sonage on Wheels.-Service in the Courthouse. - Contrast. - Birdseye View of the Congregation. -First Sermon..... 21 CHAPTER III. Tempter's Visit.-The Enemy vanquished.--Sitting during Prayers - Itching Ears. - Smart Preacher. - A Little Pusey- ism, - "Do you go to Church To-Night!"- Dr. Gadsby.-- Evening Hymn ....................................... 2t CHAPTER IV. Bookworms. - Out-Door Work. - Mrs. Peyton. -The Foundry. - Sky-Rocket Preaching. - Plain and Practical. - Miss Clax- ton's Shllool. -Persecution. -One Visit More............. 32 CHAPTER V. Two Rainy Days. -Sudden Summons. - Muddy Ride. -Sharp . Doings. -The Black Gown. -Country Funeral. - Old Prayer- Book. - Getting over Difficulties. -Dark Corner. --Service at the Grave  .............................  ........ .. 88   8           CONTENTS. CHAPTER VI. Mrs. Forester. - Little Paradise. - Ivanhoe. - Hour and a Half. - Aunt Edy.--Gipsy Hat.--Sweet Orange.- Blind and Bed-ridden.- "Master, do I pray right " - Stone Church in Maryland. --Blind Eyes open in Heaven ............ PAGE 44 CHAPTER VII. Missionary's Letter. - Everything.-Manners of the South. - Rainy Sunday. - New Recruits. -Sunshine after Dinner.- - Mr. Smith's.-Young Housekeeper.-Bone and Sinew.- Big Carriage. - Mrs. Ford. - Sight of Blood. - Surgeon with- out a Diploma.-Approach of Christmas .................. 50 CHAPTER VIII. Confusion in the Camp. -Mr. Bilger's Plot. --Neighbor Lar- kins. --Preaching on the Twenty-Fifth.--Short Horse soon curried. -Hating the Chureh.-Mrs. Peyton's Parlor. -Ef- fects of Persecution. - Hard Anvil. - Evergreens. - Mr. Hol- . ton absent ...... ... ...  ............ .......... 65 CHAPTER IX. Council of War. Plans for the Future. - Christmas Dinner.- Empty Chair. -Could not be helped. -Good Measure.- Unlooked-for Arrival!- Long Chat. -Gates of Zion desolated. --Sowing Broad-cast.. -Kindling for the Oven. -What to do with Tracts. -Lot for a Church. -Better Courage ...... .61 CHAPTER X. Martha Jones.- East Indies. - Hope Deferred. - Country Con- gregation. --Twelve Prayer-Books.--Giving out the Page. --Every Man a Penny. -Hitching about in Chairs. - New Doctrine. - Bright Eyes. - Planting Acorns. - Brother Bil- ger's Church ................................... ... 67 CHAPTER XI. Stories for Little Folks.-New Plan. --Too Methodistical. Low Mutterings. -Wednesday Night Lectures.,- Hewing Timber out of the Thick Trees.-Day of Small Things.- Rising Higher. - Eagle Hotel. - Bishop Leighton. - Some- 1   * body from Egypt. -Milk and Honey................... . 73 jt   CONTENTS.             9 CIIAPTER XII. The Priest wanted. - Lantern for the Darkness. -Broad Cap- Border.- All the Babies of the Settlement.-"Which is the Blide?" - The Green Tumbler. - A Whole Dollar. - Eupho- nious Brown. - Revival. - Hopeful Conversions...... PAGE "9 CHAPTER XIIL Mysterious Whisperings. - China and Japan. -Mother's Perplex- ity.-The Best Adviser.-New Chapel'.-Grateful Hearts. - Growing Sunday School. - "Pappy wants you."- Rickety Staircase. - Death-Bed Repentance ....  .................. 85 CHAPTER XIV. Sick Man Again. -Faithfulness. -Baptism.--Brand from the Burning.-School for the Poor.-Raising Money.-Miss Oliver. -Mustering the Children. -Sweet Promises.- Green Primers. - Blooming Beauty. - Never lend Sermons ....... 92 CHAPTER XV Other Denominations. --Fourth of July. --Agree to Disagree. Mr. James. - Appeal to One of the Fathers. -Cold Shoulder. - Vengeance. - Training for Confirmation. - Holding by the Button. - "Iow Many are to be Confirmed V".............. 98 CHAPTER XVI. Tidings from China.--Sun-Bonnets and Slate-Pencils.--Big Letter. - Anxiety Relieved. -Turner's Experience.- Bap- tist Leaven. -Bishop's Visit, - Extra Prayer-Meeting. - Re- formed Drunkard. --Well-Chosen Lessons. -Twelve Candi- dates. -De Quincey.. ...................... ........... 104 CHAPTER XVII. Can it be Possible - George Patterson,- Afraid to Commune. -Eating and Drinking Damnation.-Velvet Bonnet.- Dressing the Chapel.--Everybody Glad. --The White Cra- vat. -"Do you charge Preachers?" - Diet of Worms ...... 110 r1   10           CONTENTS. CHAPTER XV"V. Our Savior's Birthday.- Children's Feast.-Good Behaviorpr - Widow Avery. - Hired Seats. - False Witness. - Wishing in Jericho. -Turkey and Cranberry. - Who first kept Christ- mas?--Something New ........................... PAGE 11- CHAPTER XIX. Diocesan Convention.-Many Baptisms.--Ohs and Ahs.- Gloominess. -Parochial Visiting. - Leaning on the Gate.- Job Orton.- "I do no good by preaching."- Hammering a Rock ............... ........ ....... .................... 123 CHAPTER XX. Professor Crossdale.-Where they ought not to be.-Two- Hour Sermon.-Gratified, and the Opposite.-Print the Sermon.- Buying a Bell.-"Where can we hang it?"- Tempting Call ........................................ 129 CHAPTER XXI. Rev. Dexter Doolittle. -Slow and Easy. -Lifting the Eyes. - The Little Foxes. -Bearing Testimony. -All going to Rome. -Four Boys Dipped. - Clerical Courtesy ................ 136 CHAPTER XXTr. Nervous Excitement - Don't weary your Sunday Scholars.- Changing Opinions. -Coming without a Letter.--Robbing a Hen-Roost. -- Exclusiveness.-- Robert Smith ............ 141 CHAPTER XXITT. Sticking close at the Work. ' Orientation, Brass-Rubbings, and Altar-Cloths. -Preaching the Gospel. - Another Funeral,- The White Horse. - Red and Blue Coats. -Pelting Storm. . 14'7 CHAPTER XXIV. Christmas Eve. - "Who comes here?"-Wedding.- New Firm. -Present for the Bride. -Christmas Gifts. -Indelible Mark. - Marriage Feast. - Priest's Orders. - "That was solemn." - Bishops' Sleeves. - "Not Five Dollars among the Lot."...... 152   CONTENTS.            " CHAPTER XXV. Airing in the Stage.-Wind and Snow.--The Old Church.- Inside.-Not so Fast.-Baited Hook.-"What have you readf"-Prayer to the Virgin.-John the Baptist's Three Heads. -Fast Asleep ............................. PAGE 168 CHAPTER XXVI. Rabbi Marks- Credulity. -Bear's Oil.-No Sect in Particu- lar.-A Little Deceit-Extensive Acquaintance.-Preach- ing for Bishop Doane.--Levying Contributions. -Visit to New York.- Soon back in tl:e Harness... /.............. 164 CHAPTER XXVII. Sickly Summer - Discord in the Choir. - Playing Boatman.- The True Church never Changes.- Dr. Highpost's Daugh- ters.-Wasting Time with Paupers.-"What does Turner mean?"- Women without Souls. -Somewhat melted ...... 169 CHAPTER XXVIII. Hundred Communicants. - Commendatory Letters.-Explosion. -Sermon for the Day. - Visions of an Hospital.- Dr. Per- cival Jebb. - High and Dry Preaching. -A Stunted Tree... 175 CHAPTER X-XTX. Journal. -- Augustus Peyton.- Vexations.-Too much Whip- ping.-A Wedding. -Bishop Stewart.- Something done Daily. -Jemmy Bates.- Lame Pedlar.--Lent. - George Herbert. - Aspirations after a Mitre. - A Mingdalen. -Ellen Cox's Funeral. --"I always kneel." -Safe in Jail ........... 180 CHAPTER XXX. Another Confirmation. - Robert Smith. - Crowded Fold.- Diverse Plans. - Lack of Money. - House of Cedar. -Appeal to Conscience. - "I will think of the Matter."- Vestry Meet- ing.-Astonishment and Gladness.-Satisfaction in doing .. G ood ............................... ................. 186   12           CONTENTS. CHAPTER XXXI. Plenty to talk About. -Model for a Church. -Distant View of a Parsonage. -The first Spadeful. - Laying the Corner-Stone. - Prayer for the Workmen.-No Regrets.- Dying Rob- ber  . ......... ................................. PAGE 191 CHAPTER XXXII. Teacher Lost and a Bride found. - Ingratitude. -Well-nigh Starved. -Sad Story. -Kindness in Trouble. -Another School.-Everybody does Something.--Surprise. -Eating Opium. -Picking and Stealing.- Old Comrades. - Good Hopes  ..   ......       ........................................ 197 CIIAPTER XXXTII. Better and Better. - One Glass too much.--Mysterious Disap- pearance. -More Letters. -Encroachments of Selfishness. - Somebody Grateful. - Wise Rules. -Sick Baker. -'No Bread in the Oven. -"Who brought the Dollar"  ............... .. 203 CHAPTER XXXIV. High Picket-Fence. Weathercock. - Threats of an Organ. - Punctuality. - The Church that is never shut. - Cholera. - "Not as good as she might be." -Two Kinds of Influence. - Deep Gloom.--"I have remembered the Church in my W ill." ................................................ 209 CHAPTER XXXV. Opening the Will. -Just what was wanted. - Crowded Stage. - Reappearance of Jemmy. - Friends, though not Familiars. -Feet turned back from the Grave.- All Churchmen will be found Fault wit ................ ..................... 214 CHAPTER X XVI. Books and Reading. - Cultivating Different Sides of the Brain. - "He knows all about Race-Horses!" -Dropping Hints. - New Churcl. -Fresh Falsehoods. - Consecration.....   2...... 19   CONTENTS.            13 CHAPTER XXXVII. M. Greenfield. - Coming lilke Nicodemus. - Perplexity. --Play- ing Bishop. - Chlarles Wesley's Sarcasm. - Turning a Cold Shoulder.-A  Cominon Case. - Parsonage Filled.- Right about Face. - No Lack ......................... PAGE 225 CHAPTER XXXVIII. Brudder Jeff.--Dark Nighlt.-Tutrkey which clapped his Arms.-Call. to Preach. - "Wlat must be done?" - Good Thought.--Poor Hymns. --"Who can shout loudest?"- W aning Glory .............. .. ...... ........ .....  230 CHAPTER XXXTIX. Communion Service. -W Vearying Children. -Book-Keepers.- Prophecy Fulfilled.--Weak Arguments- Long Sermons.- Church Sleepers. -Running away from the Text. -Signing Testimonials. T-Wedding.-Lawyers make good Clergymen. 235 CHAPTER XL. Sickly August.- Angel of Death. --From House to House.- An Old Friend Sick. - White Hat on the Bedpost. -Shadow. -More mournful. still. - Clouds and Darkness. -Asleep in Jesus ............... .................................. 241 i     FULL PROOF OF THE MINISTRY. CHAPTTER    I. Old Friends-Sunday Night-Anxious Conference-Inclination and Duty--Rockford - A Forced Smile - Distant Regions have Claims. THE opening chapter in almost any narrative is apt to be somewhat dry and tedious. A formal introduc- tion takes place between the reader and the charac- ters who are to figure upon the stage--the author acting the part of master of ceremonies, with the best possible grace. Then follows a description of houses, and scenery, and other matters, to which the mind must first be- come accustomed before it can regard them as familiar things, or feel any particular interest in them. I flatter myself that, in this instance, the difficulty complained of may be in some tpeasure avoided. The readers of the little book, "The Boy who was trained to be a Clergyman" (and I am thankful to say   16    FULL PROOF OF THE MINISTRY. they have not been few, nor altogether fault-finding), are no strangers to the prominent characters whose words and actions are now to be recorded. They will look with pleasure upon the faces of familiar friends, and, we trust, derive some advantage from a renewal of their acquaintance. The scene opens in the city of New York: .the tine, Sunday night. A bright fire is blazing upon Mr.- Mason's hearth, and three persons are sitting around it, enjoying the warmth which the chilliness of November made necessary for health and comfort. The parents are conversing with their son; and judg- ing from the earnestness of the father's manner, and the shade of gloom which has spread itself over the mother's cheerful countenance, it must be a question of some moment which they are discussing. "And you really think, my son," said Mr. Mason, "that you ought to go and take that poor, forlorn missionary station at the southwest?" "That is my firm conviction, sir," answered Ed- ward, who, the reader must bear in mind, is the Rev. Edward Mason, who had a short time before been ordained to the holy " office of a deacon in the Church of God," as duly mentioned at the close of our last volume. "I received my commission to go forth as a- herald of the Cross nearly four months ago, and it grieves me to think that I have not yet got fairly at my work." "I am sure you have not been idle," remarked the   EASE OR DUTY.       17 kind mother, unwilling that her son should thus de- preciate his labors. "You must remember that you travelled with the bishop for several weeks, and aided him on many occasions; and since then, you have preached every Sunday twice, and sometimes thrice, at the request of some of the clergy. Why not ac- cept the invitation which you received a few days since, to become assistant to our old friend the doctor?" The young man answered not a word, but, looking steadily into the fire, appeared lost in thought and deeply agitated by conflicting emotions. Two courses of life were spread out before him: the one, toward which interest and inclination beckoned; the other, a more rugged and less inviting way--the path of duty. By yielding to his mother's wishes, and becoming assistant minister in a wealthy city parish, he would be sure of a good support, be surrounded by pleasant associations, have comparatively an easier lot, and, most of all, be enabled to remain among his dearest friends. To accept the missionary appointment which his father spoke of, would be throwing himself into the midst of hardships and trials for which he was not any too well prepared,- obliging him to live upon a scanty salary, and make full proof of his ministry in labors abundant, and self-denials multiplied. This is the dark side of the picture. But, with all these discouragements, would it not be a great satisfaction to think that he was following in the steps of the apos- tles and martyrs of earlier and better days, going out   18    FULL PROOF OF THE MINISTRY. into the highways and hedges to " seek for Christ's sheep that are dispersed abroad, and for his children who are in the midst of this naughty world"--that they may shine as jewels in his crown of rejoicing at the final day? The young clergyman felt that the Church was Christ's KINGDOM, and that he has sent forth his ministers to work. The field is the world. Sickly places, and poor places, and unpleasant places, must be cultivated as well as'others. The Master will give strength suited to the occasion. The Church's work is a real thing. The rewzards of Heaven will be real, too. Mr. Mason breathed a heavy sigh, and as if to in- terrupt the long-continued silence, turned to his son and said: "Edward, do you think that a southern climate would agree with your health?" "I hope so, father," answered the young clergy- man, rousing himself from his revery. "But even if this were not so certain, I think we ought to go where duty calls, trusting God to protect us while we do his work." "Rockford must be a poor, miserable place," said Mrs. Mason, who, although she felt that this was a weak argument to urge, still cherished a faint hope that it might weigh somewhat with Edward, and keep him nearer home. And here allow me to interrupt the thread of the narrative a moment, for a word of explanation. I freely confess that the history which I am writing is   MR. LATITUDE.       19 a true one, but it will be needless for the curious to spend any time in trying to settle the localities, or to find out the originals of the characters herein de- scribed. The name Rockford has been chosen, in order to avoid the awkward blanks which must other- wise have been used, and because Rockford is as unlike the real name of the town as any I can think of. "Since you talked of going there, Edward, I have looked over all the old numbers of the ' Spirit of Mis- sions, " continued Mrs. Mason, and the reports from that point are meager enough. Indeed, the last time that Mr. Latitude writes on the subject, he only re- ports two baptisms for the past quarter, and a dimi- nution in the number of communicants from thirteen to nine!" "I believe he is the missionary," said Edward, with a forced smile, " who reported to the committee that service had been held regularly, except when the weather was unfavorable or himself indisposed. These two causes, by a liberal construction, might be made to cover a good part of the year!" Mr. Mason, without seeming to have observed that the conversation had taken a somewhat- different direction, returned again to his inquiries about the climate. "I believe your friend Turner's report was rather favorable than otherwise. Is he settled near Rockford?" "Within forty or fifty miles," answered Edward.   20    FULL PROOF OF THE MINISTRY. "He has had a pretty good opportunity of judging, having been there ever since our ordination." "I must say, my son," remarked Mr. Mason, seri- ously, " that, aside from my natural desire as a pa- rent to have you near us, there is indeed a good deal of force in the arguments you urge for going to a new and destitute diocese. City congregations can read- ily be supplied with clergymen. 'Distant regions have claims, undoubted claims, upon us. If all parents should allow their private wishes to influence them in such cases, whose sons would go forth to do battle for the Lord against the mighty?" "Thank you, father, for saying so," said Edward, his eyes dimmed with tears. "I do not mean to de- cide hastily in this matter. Let us take another week for consideration, and for asking guidance fromt above-and at the end of that time I must answer yes or no, as it is important that the place should be speedily supplied."   DUTY TRIUMPHS.        21 CHAPTER II. Dutly tliu mplhs.-Good-bye.-Cannibals.- New Field.-Kingdom which shall never end. - -Rev. Moses Latitude. - Parsonages on Wheels. - Service in the Courthouse.-Contrast. -Bil-l's-Eve View of the Congregation.-- First Sermon. DUTY triumphed over inclination, and the Rev. Edward Mason was appointed missionary to Rock- ford. The people of that place had pledged them- selves to raise three hundred dollars, and the mis- sionary committee promised two hundred more. I shall make no attempt to describe the parting scene. Suffice it to say, that when every provision which parental kindness conld devise had been made for his comfort, he set out with a stout heart and a resolute determination to do his duty. When the carriage had actually driven away from the door, Jenny, the Scotch chambermaid, came run- ning after it, to bring some little article which had been forgotten, and, as she handed it to our young friend through the open window, she begged him, in a very earnest tone, not to let the black people eat him up! In her simplicity, she thought they must be cannibals. The journey, like most long ones, was tiresome, and oftentimes not free from danger: but a watchful   22    FULL PROOF OF THE MINISTRY. Providence brought the new missionary safely to the end. Rockford was not a very large town, and a, northerner would have laughed to hear it dignified with the name of city, although many of the inhabit- ants were accustomed to speak of it as such. It was, in some respects, a pleasant place, and offered a wide field for usefulness. The whole ground was occupied, indeed, by various religious denominations, with one or the other of which most of the influential people had already united themselves. But this fact pre- sented no insurmountable obstacle in the way of the Church. It might hinder her growth for a season, and try the faith and patience of her ministers, but nothing can withstand the steady advance of God's universal kingdom. The beginnings may be small, but the final triumph is certain. Zion will come forth, with songs of rejoicing, " fair as the moon, clear as the sun, and terrible as an army with banners." Rockford was almost a new field for the Church. It is true, the Rev. Moses Latitude had been there for a year or so; but all that the majority of people knew about his mission was that he was a very lib- eral-spirited, polite man, who read prayers out of a book, and long rambling sermons from a thick man- uscript of foolscap, and enjoyed sociable tea-parties, and on Sunday night went to hear his brethren of the "evangelical denominations" preach, and did nobody any harm. The salary not being sufficient to meet the wants of a growing family (fortunately for the   CHURCH IN THE COURTROOM.     23 church in Rockford, whatever might have been the effect upon other places), he moved away. A wit once suggested that the houses of the clergy should be built upon wheels. Until the laity show a little more sense of obligation to support them com- fortably, perhaps this plan might serve a good pur- pose. As Mr. Mason reached his home late in the week, he saw little of his parishioners until Sunday morning, when they assembled for public worship in the court- house, having as yet no more suitable building for the purpose. At the ringing of the bell, a few persons might be seen going toward the appointed place, but the tide moved in other directions. The young clergyman carried his gown under his arm, and, being instructed by one of the vestrymen as to the custom of his predecessor, he stopped in the passage, behind the door, to put it on. le then en- tered the courtroom, and took his station at a sort of desk, which had been fitted up on the platform, with a  green baize covering, and an old candle-box for a kneeling-stool. While the people were coming in, Mr. Mason found the lessons and psalms, occasionally casting his eyes around upon the novel scene before him. What a  change since his last Sunday in New York! On that day he had preached, in the morn- ing, in old, time-beaten St. Paul's-and in the after-- Hnoon, in the beautiful church of the Ascension. I  said that he looked around, now and then, upon   24    FULL PROOF OF THE MINISTRY. the strange scene which presented itself to view. Perhaps the readermay have some curiosity to know whom he saw, and what was done. And first, there was the widow Peyton, a venerable old lady, with spectacles and large prayer-book, sitting on the seat nearest the desk. The two nice-looking little girls are her grandchllildren. The small, dried-up man behind Ers. Peyton is Mr. Chambers, the senior war- den, who keeps a large clothing establishment in Rockford. He has a  wife and five children, who are all with himr in the courthouse, except the infant. Next, you will notice twoladies in black. They are sisters, both unmarried, and their name is Jones.  little higher up (for the seats are arranged ial a semi-circle, and rise one above another), is Mr. Per- kins, the junior warden. He is a shrewd lawyer from New York, and accustomed to see the church service conducted in good style, in his youth. He is very energetic in all business matters connected with the parish, and, though not a comunmLicant re- sponds aloud, and is really a most important person. He is a bachelor. Do you observe a beautiful girl just bursting into womanhood, schAted with her mother, to the left of Mr. Perkins?  She is the daughter of Captain Forreste';. He is an officer in the navy, and is now absent on a cruise. His wife and daughter live in a snug house in one of e retired streets of the town hin the ersons There are some vacant seats behind the persons   THE FIRST SERVICE.      25 just introduced, and then we come to two young men who are employed in Mr. Chambers's store. Old Mr. Thompson and his wife have seated themselves some- what higher up. He has a foundry, and is an Eng- lishman by birth. Of course he is attached to the i church. Those neatly-dressed children belong to the little Sunday school, which good Miss Claxton has organized. That is her showing the larger girls how to find the places in their prayer-books. And now I have nearly got through with the list--for after di- recting your attention to a few colored persons near the door, and the five or six gentlemen and ladies who constitute the choir, I have told you all who were present. There was a dead silence in the little congregation waiting for the service to begin, and some were most curious to hear the sound of the minister's voice. At length Mr. Mason rose, and in a quiet, subdued tone, began: "Let the words of my mouth, and the medi- tation of my heart, be always acceptable in Thy sight; O Lord, my strength and my Redeemer." All stood up during the exhortation, except Mr. Chambers's clerks, but when the clergyman came to the general confession, only about a dozen kneeled down. Probably the floor was very dirty. This is apt to be the case in courthouses. Perhaps those who continued sitting did not know that kneeling was the proper posture for prayer:-or perhaps they thought that such trifles were unimportant,   2   260    FULL PROOF OF THE MINISTRY. provided the heart be right. The chants were pretty well sung, and the responding much more hearty than in some long-established congregations.. The ante- communion was very properly omitted, as Mr. Mason thought the state of things in Rockford quite too un- formed, as yet, to allow every rubric to be rigidly observed. The sermon was plain and unpretending, and earnest, from the well-chosen text, "Hold Thou ne up, and I shall be safe!"-(Psalm cxix. 117.) The preacher described in few words the nature and extent of the solemn responsibility which he that day assumed;--stated the ground of confidence upon which his hopes were fixed for usefulness in his work, -and laid down some general principles by "which he proposed to direct his course. When the sermon was ended, the congregation quietly dispersed.   THE TEMPTER.        27 CHAPTER III. Telnpter's Visit.--The Enemy vanquished.- Sitting during Prayers.- Itcljing Ears. - Smart Preacher.--A Little Puseyism. -Do you go to Church to-night?-Dr. Gadsby. - Evening Hymn, As no arrangement had been made about a board- ing-place, the young clergyman was staying for a few days with Mr. Chambers. At the close of the morn- ing-service he retired to his room; and then "the tempter came to him" (not in bodily form, indeed, but no less really and effectively), and whispered: "That is rather a small congregation, Mr. Mason, for a man of your abilities. The position of assistant- minister in the city, with a good prospect of the rec- torship in a few years, certainly presents a more inviting prospect. You might feel awkwardly about resigning this charge so soon, but you ca y plead some plausable excuse for so doing. The place which  was offered you in New York may yet be secured." The evil one did not wish to see an active laborer begin the war against him in Rockford. The artful suggestions sunk down' into the young clerygman's heart. He felt very low-spirited. He contrasted the dingy-looking courthouse, and the handful of people, with the fine churches and the crowded congregations   28    FULL PROOF OF THE MINISTRY. he had left. In the midst of these disheartening reflections (a stranger in the land of strangers, as he felt himself to be), another voice seemed to say: "No man, having put his hand to the plough, and looking back, is fit for the kingdom of God."- "Lo, I am with you always." Mr. Mason lifted up his heart in earnest prayer, and the tempter departed from him. When Martin, the colored boy, called him down to dinner, no one would have supposed, from his placid face, that he had passed, thus lately, through a struggle so- severe. "We had quite a good congregation for the morn- ing," remarked Mrs. Chambers, as they seated them- selves at the table; "but we shall have more out this afternoon." Mr. Mason hoped so, but said nothing. "The other denominations," observed Mr. Cham- bers, " have no preaching in the afternoon, and some of them are very apt to drop in to see how we get along. Indeed, our flock at first was so extremely small, th ao r Jackson, a good Methodist, told me, one day, lat he came out of sheer pity!" Mrs. Chambers was right. When the two-o'clock bell rang, there was quite a gathering at the court- house, and Mr. Mason reproached himself somewhat for having given way to despondency at noon. There was evidently, however, a good deal of work to be done in the way of instruction and reformation. Many more beside Mr. Chambers' clerks sat still when they   SERMON CRITICS.       29 ought to have been standing; and the same dozen persons who had humbly kneeled during prayers in the morning, did the same now;. The sermon was a simple, practical one, suited to the solemn advent season, and drawn from the startling words of the prophet: "Behold, I will send mny messenger, and he shall prepare the way before mp," etc. (Mal. iii. 1-3.) There were many itching ears listening to God's ambassador that day. The good people of Rockford, like the Athenians of old-and indeed like most of the descendants of Adam--were fond of running after new things. "A right smart preacher, Mr. Perkins," said an old man with a crutch, as he hobbled down the court- house steps. The junior warden acquiesced in the remark. Soon the whole street was in a buzz. "He don't preach half so long as Mr. Latitude," remarked a prim young lady in a blue bonnet, ad- dressing a fop, who flourished a little cane, the silver head of which he had been sucking all through the service. "No, indeed," replied the gallant, "and he is mnuch more of an orator. I hear that Mr. Mason is from the city." Mr. Williams, a Baptist, and Mr. Manuel, the new- school Presbyterian preacher, now passed along. "And pray, sir," asked the former, " what do you think of the new minister?" "Why," answered Mr. Manuel, "I can hardly   30    FULL PROOF OF THE MINISTRY. say. I like him, and I don't like him. The sermon was well written, and delivered with unction; but I thought I discovered a little Puseyism toward the close." "Well--now you speak of it," said Mr. Williams, "I noticed something, too -but it escaped my mind till you mentioned it." And so I might go on, and fill a long chapter, with the remarks which people made about the preacher. The Episcopalians were all pleased, and declared without hesitation that the new missionary was just the man for the place. Some of the young ladies spoke of his good looks, while others mentioned the sweetness of his voice, or his emphasis in reading, or, the force and pithiness of his sermons. After tea, Mr. Perkins came down to Mr. Cham- bers's, and congratulated his pastor upon the favor- able auspices under which he had begun his labors. In the midst of the conversation, several bells began to ring, and Kate Chambers inquired of Mr. Mason whether he meant to go to church anywhere that night. He said no, and, without giving ally reason for this. determination, went on to make inquiries about the size of the town, the character of its inhab- itants, and various matters which might help or hinder the growth of his congregation. "We have pricked up pretty smartly since we be- gan to have regular services," said Mr. Chambers, "but we have plenty of room left for improvement."   1    DR. GADSBY.        31 "Yes, indeed," interrupted his wife: " only think of it, Mr. Mason--you have now about a fourth of your flock sitting with you around the fire." "O, there must be a beginning to everything," said the clergyman, in a cheerful tone. "' Rome was not built in a day.' The largest houses are formed of single bricks." The door-bell now rang, and Dr. Gadsby came in to pay his respects to Mr. Mason. I owe the doctor an apology, for not having mentioned before that he was the leader of the choir. He was a very agree- able man, of thirty years or so, and highly esteemed in his profession. The conversation soon became general and animated, and bedtime came before any one was aware of it. At the request of Mr. Mason, the doctor struck up the evening hymn:-- "Glory to thee, my God, this night," etc. Prayers were offered, and soon all had retired to rest.    X 832   FULL PROOF OF THE MINISTRY. CHAPTER    IV. Bookworms. - Out-Door Work. - Mrs. Peyton. -The Foundry.-- Sky- rocket Preaching.--Plain and Practical.--Miss Claxton's School. -Persecution. -One Visit more. OUR young missionary had too much good com- mon sense to suppose that the work of building up the Church in a new place could be done in the study. It is true enough, we want some thorough scholars in the ministry, with logical minds, and the other requisites to constitute learned men, who, in times of need, may come forth as controversialists and champions for the truth. Such clergymen can find a snug shelter in our colleges and theological semina- ries; and there, in their own province, exercise a wide influence for good. The active, out-door, working clergyman, who is to lay the foundation of new parishes, can not expect to 'be a bookworm; and so far as Hebrew, and such studies are concerned, must rest satisfied with what he has already learned during his preparatory course. Entertaining these views, Mr. Mason began, on Monday morning, to go about among his parishioners. The good shepherd, whose portrait our Savior drew, was able, from familiar acquaintance, to "call his own   I           THE FIRST CALL.       33 sheep by name."  Although Mr. Mason was well aware what a city rector at the east might reasonably expect in the shape of attention and etiquette, upon taking charge of a new parish, he felt that it would be perfectly absurd in him to set up at home waiting for formal calls. He had already seen the principal members of his vestry, and, feeling that he had come to Rockford to do his "Father's business," he set about it without delay. Little Tomlny Chambers, a bright boy of ten years, acted as cicerone upon this occasion. The first visit was to Mrs. Peyton, whose advanced+ age gave her a fair claim to this attention. She wel- comed her new pastor with great warmth, expressing over and over again, the pleasure which his coming among them had afforded her. In the course of the conversation, she gave a simple outline of her history, and although I can not spare the space to record her words, it will be essential to make some things plain which will appear hereafter, to let the reader know who she was. Her husband, a Virginia lawyer of good standing, had removed to Rockford, years before, and at his death left his widow in easy circumstances, but by no means rich. They had two children, the eldest a daughter, who married MAir. Lucas, a young man who had studied with her father;-the other a son, who, upon reaching his majority, took it into his head to go upon some mercanlile speculation to the East Indies. 2'  34    FULL PROOF OF THE MINISTRY, Mr. Lucas and his wife were both carried off in one sickly summer, by a fever which then prevailed, and their two little daughters, Kitty and Fanny, were confided to the care of their grandmother. When Mrs. Peyton spoke of her long-absent son, she could not refrain from tears. It had now been several years since she had heard from him, and no one could tell whether he were living or dead. An hour passed quickly away, while the old lady told her tale of sorrow, and when the clergyman rose to go, she begged that he would first offer up a prayer for the absent one. MSr. Mason read some of those comfort- ing psalms which have poured consolation into so many mourning hearts, and then, partly in the famil- iar language of the collects, and partly in words of his own, besought Him who is the Father of the father- less and the widow's unfailing Friend, to send down grace and strength for this time of need. The little guide then led the way to Mr. Thompson's humble dwelling, not far from the foundry. The chubby- faced Englishwoman was sitting in a low chair by the fire, darning stockings, and at the same time at- tending to something in a kettle, the savory smell from which betokened the approach of dinner. Like most old-country people, she prized a visit from the clergyman very highly, and they were soon engaged in a friendly chat--but Mr. Mason did not sit long, fearing that his presence might interfere with her preparations for the noonday meal. As he went out   MR. THOMPSON.        35 the door, Mrs. Thompson called after him and said, "Won't you be pleased to step over to the furnace and speak with the good-man?" "Certainly, madam," answered the clergyman, right glad of the opportunity, in this informal way, to become acquainted with his people. Mr. Thompson was very busy with his workmen, in casting ploughs; but wiping the smut ftom his face upon his shirt-sleeve, he came forward and gave Mr. Mason a hearty shake of the hand, and showed him the various arrangements about the premises, for car- rying on his business, Tommy now gave some broad hints that dinner- time was not far off, and they accordingly turned 'their steps toward home. Mrs. Chambers kindly offered to make some calls with Mr. Mason, in the afternoon;-so, when he had spent a few hours in arranging his, books, writing letters to friends, and looking over the few scattered records which his predecessor had made in the parish register, I must beg the reader, although, perhaps, already tired of visiting, to go forth with our missionary again. I can answer for it, that had he consulted his own in- clination, he would have remained quietly in his room, reading a pleasant book, or taking some pains in the preparation of his next Sunday's sermons. Mr. Mason had, however, made up his mind to aim at nothing more than to give short, plain, practical dis- courses, such as all could understand;--and satisfied    36    FULL PROOF OF THE MINISTRY. if, instead of being praised for making a grand dis- play in the pulpit, a few times during the year, he could be uniformly respectable and instructive. "Our best way to find Miss Claxton," said Mrs. Chambers, as she walked along with the clergyman, "will be to go to the schoolhouse. I am sure the children will be glad to see you." "I must follow your directions now, madam," an- swered Mr. Mason. "As I am a perfect stranger in the town, you will best know where and when we should stop. By the way, did you tell me that Miss Claxton's father had been a methodist minister?" "Yes," replied Mrs. Chambers. "He was a very popular preacher in his day. About the time of his death, this young lady got hold of Cooke on Episco- pacy, and a life of Wesley, which put her upon the right track, and, although bitterly opposed, I might almost say persecuted, by her friends, she persisted in joining the Church." "You say persecuted by her friends," said Mr. Mason, with interest. "Do you mean that she suf- fered the loss of temporal good for the sake of her religion?" "Indeed she did," answered Mrs. Chambers. "Finding her condition almost insupportable among her kindred, who are very well off, she came here, and maintains herself by teaching school." A group of little girls were now seen playing about the door of a small building, but at the sound of a   I           THE MSSES JONES.      37 bell they all ran in, and our friends followed them. : Two of Mrs. Chambers's daughters belonged t tohe school, and Mr. Mason also observed Kitty and Fanny Lucas. The children were called up to recite, and when the clergyman had heard several classes, and asked a few'questions, and spoken encouragingly to the little ones, he took his leave. The next visit was to the Misses Jones, the maiden ladies in black, whom we saw at the courthouse on Sunday. The elder was rather prim and starch in her ways, and some people even called her by the odious name of a busy-body, but as we have so lately made her acquaintance, it is impossible to say whether or not this serious accusation be true. Miss Martha, the younger sister, was much more attractive in evgry way. They both seemed gratified that Mr. Mason had called upon them, and begged him to come often, and without ceremony.   88    FULL PROOF OF THE MINISTRY. CHAPTER V. Two Rainy Days.- Sudden Summons.-- Muddy Ride.- Sharp Do- ings. - The Black Gown. - Country Funeral. - Old Prayer-Book.- Getting over Difficulti. s.--Dark Corner. -Service at the Grave. TUESDAY and Wednesday proved to be rainy and unpleasant days, and little out-door work could be done. Mr. Mason took advantage of this time to prepare for Sunday; and at night, when Mr. Cham- bers was at leisure, he got him to look over the parish register with him, making particular inquiries about the various persons, great and smnall, whose names were contained therein. The reader must be under no apprehension that I have an evil design upon his patience, by giving a minute detail of all that our hero said and did upon every day of his life. I have quite too much regard for my own convenience for that. But, in order to accomplish the purpose for which I began this task, it will be necessary for me sometimes to travel slowly. Thursday morning was brightened by the clear sun- shine, and Mr. Mason had already marked out his plans for the day, when a carriage bespattered with mud drove up to the door, and presently the bell rang with violence.      -       CALL TO A FUNERAL.       39 "A gentleman wants to see the minister," said Martin, who had gone to answer the summons. Mr. Mason went out, and was accosted in a familiar way by a stranger in homespun, who, without cere- mony, thus explained his business:- "Neighbor Smith's wife died yesterday, and'he asked me to come and fetch you out to preach the funeral. It rained so hard, he could not send word before." Mr. Mason. When is the funeral to be? Stranger. At one o'clock. We had better start as soon as we can, as it is a right smart drive out there. The clergyman assented, and, running up stairs, tied his gown and prayer-book ini a handkerchief, put on his cloak, and was soon out of town. The man who drove (whose name was Ford) struck up a friendly chat, which lasted the whole way. It was something so novel to Mr. Mason to be thus un- expectedly called on to preach, that he would have preferred to have kept silence, in order to collect and compose his thoughts; but perhaps it was all for the best. Ford. Mrs. Smith will be a powerful loss to our neighborhood. Mr. Mason. She was a good and useful woman, I presume. Ford. You may be sure she was, and so was her mother before her.   40    FULL PROOF OF THE MINISTRY. Mr. Mason. Did Mrs. Smith belong to our church? Ford. I can't say positive. She was christened in Virginia, I know, by old Parson Belmaine, if I haven't mistook the name, and I think she always had a lean- ing towards the English Church, or the Episcopalian as they call it now. Mr. Mason. Do you belong to any religious de- nomination, yourself? Ford. My wife and I joined the Freewill Baptists about four years ago. Mr.- Mason. Have you ever attended our ser- vices? Ford. Why yes; once or twice, when Mr. Latitude preached in town, I dropped in to hear him, and to see too, to tell you the truth. I had been told so much about the formality, and the getting up and sitting down, and the queer dress he wore, curiosity got the better of me. "Well," said Mr. Mason, laughing, " how did you like it all? "It was pretty sharp doings, I thought," answered the farmer, touching his horses with the whip, as they ploughed their way through the miry; roads. "As I told one of my friends, afterward, who was making fun of the gown, if officers on parade appear in their uniform, I don't see why preachers may not wear theirs too. And if I read the good book right, the priests there had dresses which they only used in meeting-time."   THE OLD PRAYER-BOOK.      41 Mr. Mason. Did not the service strike you as be- ing very solemn and appropriate? Ford. I hardly know what I thought as to that. I had gone expecting to hear something bran-new; and lo and behold, the words all sounded to me like an old song. And come to look, I found that Mr. Lati- tude was reading out of a book such as my wife had used for years. Indeed, she went through it so often, she wore all the cover off, and I had to take it to Rockford to be bound over." "Indeed!" said Mr. Mason, gratified by this unde- signed compliment to the prayer-book. "And did you not know before that this book was used in the public worship of the Church?" "Why no," answered the farmer, "I thought it was some good old set of prayers that my wife's mother had got hold of somehow, and never asked. any more about it." "If you could trace the history of your family back for a few generations,- my friend," remarked Mr. Ma- son, "you would find that your great-grandfathers and mothers all worshipped God according to the forms of the prayer-book; for then the unhappy di- visions which now disturb the Christian world did not exist." "That is Mr. Smith's," said the farmer, pointing to a house which stood at some distance from the road, and making no answer to the last remark. A number of horses were fastened along the fence,   42    FULL PROOF OF THE MINISTRY. and several men were. seen sitting in the porch, or' leaning lazily against the stile. The farmer saluted them as old acquaintances, and Mr. Mason, although he had never met with any of them before, shook hands with them all, as though he had known them for years. A clergyman who waits for a formal introduction, before he will make advances towards strangers, will wait a long time, and lose many occa- sions for doing good. Everybody knows him; he may therefore safely go upon the supposition that he knows everybody. It wasnow after twelve o'clock, and some consid- erate woman, who seemed to have the management of affairs, whispered to Mr. Ford to bring the minis- ter in to get a morsel to eat before preaching, which invitation was very gladly accepted. The largest room in the house had been prepared for the funeral, by placing rows of chairs along the walls, while rude benches of boards covered with bed- quilts instead of cushions occupied the centre of the floor. When the neighbors had all assembled, the clergyman took his station by a little stand in one corner. The burial service loses part of its magical effect when the responses are not made; and such was the cas j on this occasion; but it can never be heard, even under the most unfavorable circumstances, with- out producing deep feelings of solemnity and awe. It is extremely awkward to have no singing be- tween the prayers and the sermon, and at the same time somewhat difficult to have singinr, when the   THE SERMON.        43 people are not supplied with books. Mr. Mason got over this difficulty very well, by giving out the famil- iar hymn- There is a land of pure delight," etc., and then handing the book to Mr. Ford, who started the tune, and several persons joined with him. The music might not have been as fine and operatic as some of our churches can boast of, but it was really quite respectable. I am certain that Mr. Bilger, the Seventh-day Bap- tist preacher, who happened to be present, was greatly disappointed when Mr. Mason, instead of drawing a written sermon out of his pocket and trying to read it in that dark corner of the room, selected a verse for his text from the chapter which had just been read, and in a few fitting, extemporaneous remarks, endeavored to impress upon the minds of his hearers the solemn realities of death and the resurrection. The grave had been dug at the back part of the garden, and here, beneath a venerable oak, whose broad, leafless branches were shaken by the December winds, the mortal remains of a " deceased sister" were committed to their kindred dust. The bereaved husband and children, and the ser- vants of the household, wept bitterly as the hollow sounds came up in answer to the heavy clods; and many eyes, which were seldom wet with tears, glis- tened now, while the minister of God repeated, from memory, the tender and consoling words which are used at the butrial of the dead.   "    FULL PROOF OF THE MINISTRY. CHAPTER VI. Mrs. Forester.- Little Paradise.- Ivanhoe. --Hour and a Half.- Aunt Edy. - Gipsy Hat. - Sweet Orange. -- Blind and Bed-ridden. --- Master; do I pray right " - Stone Church in Maryland. - Blind Eyes open in Heaven.          * "WE must be sure and call upon Mrs. Forester, this afternoon," said Mrs. Chambers to Mr. Mason, on the morning after the funeral. "The weather is so uncertain, we may be prevented from going to- morrow, and I should be glad for you to see her before Sunday." Mr. Mason acquiesced in the arrangement, and at the hour agreed upon they set out. Captain Forester's house stood on the very out- skirts of the town, and even at this unpropitious season, when neither trees nor flowers added their peculiar attractions, it was a beautiful residence. Everything was on a miniature scale, it is true, but the effect uo the whole was striking in the extreme. Mrs. Forester and her daughter appeared in a few minutes, and at once made the visiters feel themselves perfectly at home. The mother attended to the daughter's education herself--having ample time for the purpose; and the intelligence written upon the   A PLEASANT VISITM       45 young lady's countenance, and the gentle composure with which she shared in the conversation, her sensi- ble remarks, and freedom from affectation, showed, that these advantages had not been thrqwn away. If I were writing a novel, this would be the proper place to describe Grace Forester's personal appear- ance. She was considered very handsome in Rock- ford, and some fancied that they discovered in her a striking resemblance to Rebecca. Allowing this sup- position to be true, I must refer you to Ivanhoe for the portrait as drawn by a master's hand. Mrs. Forester took the young clergyman to see the green-house, and the library--which last contained many rare and valuable books.  There was also an interesting cabinet of curiosities; collected by the captain during the many years of his wanderings. Grace, also, played a few pieces upon the piano, with i exquisite taste, and sang a song which Mrs. Chambers asked for.  Take it all in all, it was a most delight- ful visit, and Mr. Mason was somewhat frightened when, upon going out of the gate, he looked at his watch and found it nearly six o'clock;--so that it was clear that an hour and a  half had passed very swiftly.  It is certainly most agreeable for a gentle- man of refined taste and feelings, to associate with those whose minds have been cultivated by reading and study, and mixing with the world--but beware, Mr. Mason, lest even such harmless enjoyments as intellectual conversation, and books, and pictures,   "    FULL PROOF OF THE MINISTRY. and music, and flowers, cause you to lose sight of your work! On Saturday, at dinner, Martin was absent from his place, and when his master inquired why this was so, Mrs. Chambers said that the boy's grandmother was very sick, and that he had asked leave to visit her. "O, ma," exclaimed little Sally, " may I go down  to Aunt Edy's, and carry her an orange?" "I have, no objection," answered Mrs. Chambers, "but I have not time this afternoon, and your sister is engaged, and you are too young to be trusted so far by yourself." "Who is aunt Edy?" inquired Mr. Mason. "She is an old servant of ours," answered Mrs. Chambers, '" who nursed most of our children. For two years past, as she has been blind and bed-ridden, I have hired a little cottage for her about a mile from this, where one of her daughters lives with her." "I will go with you, Sally," said Mr. Mason, look- ing across the table at the rosy-cheeked little cherub. Her eyes sparkled with delight, and long before the hour fixed upon, she was at the clergyman's door, with a gipsy hat upon her head, and a tiny basket in her hand. . As they approached Aunt Edy's house, Martin espied them, and informed his grandmother of the important circumstance. -O0, aunty," cried Sally, running up and seizing   AUNT EDY.        47 the old blind woman's hand, as she lay upon the bed; "O, aunty, I have brought you a nice, sweet orange, and a custard!" "Bless your precious heart, my child," said Edy, raising herself up as she spoke. "But where is the minister that Martin told me was coming?" "Here I am," answered Mr. Mason, giving her a friendly shake by the hand. L' I will sit down here by the bed and talk with you awhile." Edy. Lord bless you, sir, you are very kind. It is so long since I heard a minister's voice! Mr. Mason. It is a sad trial, to be blind, as you are, aunty, but you must ask God to give you patience. I hope you pray to him in your troubles. Edy. O yes, master, but I don't know whether I pray right.  I learned my prayers when I was a child, and maybe I have forgotten to say 'em as mistress learned me once. Please hear me. Mr. Mason. Very well, Edy. So the old woman, having folded her withered hands, and lifted her sightless eyes to heaven, re- peated, with great devotion, the creed and the Lord's prayer. Edy. Is that right, master? Mr. Mason. That is all very good, aunty. The first which you said was the apostles' creed, or belief, and the other was the prayer which our Savior left for us to use. Whenever we need anything, whether it be the pardon of our sins, or relief fromn suffering,   48    FULL PROOF OF THE MINISTRY. or comfort for body or soul, we should ask God our heavenly Father to grant us such favors for the sake of Jesus Christ his only Son. Edy. I am a poor sinner, Mr. Mason, but I feel that my Savior cares for me. Mr. Mason. Indeed he does, Edy. He cares for all, even for those who sadly abuse his love. Edy. God has always been mighty good to me. My old mistress, in Maryland, had me christened in the big stone church, and every Sunday she used to come into the kitchen and sit down and hear all of us colored folk say the cate- She hesitated, and Mr. Mason helped her out with the hard word "Catechism, I suppose you mean, aunty?" Edy. Catechism!-Yes, that is it. All my life my masters and mistresses have been so kind. God bless 'em. Mr. Mason. Shall I read a chapter in the Bible before I go? Edy. Indeed, sir, I should like it mightily. The clergyman accordingly took a small Testament from his pocket, and read a part of the fourteenth chapter of St. John's gospel, connecting with it the closing portion of the Apocalypse, in which the bles- sedness of heaven is described. Then, shutting the book, he said, "Only think, Edy, what a happy home our blessed Savior has prepared for those who love him. In heaven there will be no sih. There we   EYES OPENED IN HEA VEN.  shall not suffer from sickness, nor sorrow any more." "And there," interrupted Edy, "there my poor blind eyes shall be opened!" "Yes, Edy," answered fMr. Mason, " you shall see God, and our Savior, and the holy apostles, and all the good who have ever lived. There we shall be united again to our dear friends, who have fallen asleep in Jesus." When the clergyman kneeled down by the bed to pray, Sally and Martin, and Malinda, Edy's daugh- ter, kneeled down too. We may believe the earnest prayer was heard, for the gracious promise has been given, , Where two or three are gathered together in Marname, there am I in the midst of them." (St. Mat- thew xviii. 20.)   50    FULL PROOF OF THE MINISTRY.           X CHAPTER VII.                X Missionary's Letter.--Everything.-Manners of the South.-- Rainy  Sunday. - New Recruits. - Sunshine after Dinner. - Mr. Smith's Young Housekeeper.- 'Bone and Sinew.-Big Carriage-Mrs. Ford. - Sight of Blood. - Surgeon without a Diploma. - Approach  of Christmas.:; INSTEAD of carrying on the thread of the narrative in this chapter in my own words, I am happy to be  able to introduce a letter from Mr. Mason to his mother, which will perhaps afford the reader an  agreeable change. "RocFonRD, December, 18-. "It was with sincere pleasure, my dear mother, that I received your last kind letter, which contained abun-  dant assurance that all my New York friends are well.  j You ask me to give a particular account of every-    g thing-the people, the prospects of the church, etc.  These various matters cover a wide field, but I will  do my best to answer your inquiries. My parish- ioners have' shown themselves to be extremely con- siderate and kind, and, generally speaking, I am much pleased with them. The manners of southern-    X ers are polished, and the tone of public sentiment is - high. There is little of the starch and stiffness which . sometimes render it so difficult to form acquaintances   A RAINY-SUNDAY CONGREGATION.    51 at the north. Tell Jenny that I feel quite sure of rleeiving no damage from the black people, and most certainly not in the particular way which she seemed so much to dread. "The colored population are happy and contented. Aswteh that all the poor white people at the north were half as well off. "In my last I gave you an account of my first Sun- day in Rockford. Supposing that you may have some curiosity to know how we made out on the second, I purpose now to enlighten you upon this subject. The people had been hoping all the week, that Sunday would prove to be a fine day. I. must confess I was somewhat anxious for it myself, inasmuch as I had reason to fear that fair-iveather Christians might be found here, as well as in those parts of the Union with which I am better acquainted. "Providence, however, saw fit to order it other- wise, and Sunday morning brought with it an abun- dance of rain. A very small congregation assembled for worship--so small, indeed, that when the prayers were ended, I took my text from the gospel for the day, and preached without notes. In one particular I felt rather pleased than otherwise that the day had turned out to be so inclement. Having been rather provoked the Sunday before to see Mr. Chambers's clerks sitting still during the whole service, I took a good opportunity after breakfast to give them each a prayer-book, and show them how to find the psalter,   52    FULL PROOF OF THE MINISTRY.! . and a few other places, and begged them to help in the responses. They seemed gratified with the    : attention, and promised to do so. Had the weather  been favorable, and the usual number of persons in attendance, most likely my new recruits would have felt some backwardness about reading aloud. As it   : happened, however, they stationed themselves near Mr. Chambers, and did their duty right manfully. In the afternoon it cleared off, and the congregation was even larger than on the first Sunday. "On Monday I took Mr. Perkins's horse, which had been politely offered for the purpose, and rode out to Mr. Smith's, whose wife I buried last Thursday. He appears to be a plain, sensible, straightforward man, and conversed with me very frankly about his affairs, and the unsettled and wretched state in which he found himself since his irreparable loss. His eld- est daughter, Julia, about sixteen years of age, a sweet, modest-looking girl, had already taken upon herself the care of the domestic concerns, and judging from the tidy appearance of everything about, she must possess considerable talent for housekeeping. I ad- vised Mr. Smith to send his two younger daughters to Miss Claxton's school at Rockford, and he made a conditional promise to do so. While we were talk- ing, on this subject, his son Robert came in. He is a fine, well-grown youth, and I was surprised to learn that he was only about fourteen years of age. Out-door exercise, and a wholesome diet, have certainly helped H.   AN ACCIDENT.        53 nature most effectually in the development of muscu- lar vi'gor. "Julia told me with a good deal of satisfaction, that her father had just bought a large carriage, which would enable them to attend church-a privi- lege which they had hithertd seldom enjoyed. "On the whole, my visit was pleasant, and I hope not unprofitable. Having left a few tracts on the table, and been repeatedly urged to come out again very soon, I imounted my horse and rode over to Mr. Ford's, who had made nme promise to give him a call. The farmer had gone to town, but his wife could not have received me more cordially if I had been a friend of thirty years' standing.' In the course of our conversation, the story of the old prayer-book came up, and Mrs. Ford even went beyond her hus- band in heaping up superlatives to express her esti- mation of its worth. Just then, a little colored girl burst into the room, in great fright, and told her mis- tress that Andrew had nearly cut off his foot with the axe. At this alarming information, Mrs. Ford and myself both hurried to the back-yard, and found the poor negro sitting upon a log, howling dreadfully, while several men and wojmen, almost beside them- selves with terror at the Sight of blood, were running this way and that, evidently not knowing what to do. Although my surgical knowledge is not very exten- sive, I immediately tied a handkerchief tightly about the gaping wound, and sent one of the servants to the   54    FULL PROOF OF THE MINISTRY.       !' house olr more proper bandages. I had hardly finished adjusting these before Mr. Ford arrived, and joined his wife in thanking me for my timely assistance. "Ever since going to college, I have been so fully. impressed with the vast importance of presence of mind, and composure, that I have tried very hard to cultivate them, although naturally, as you well know, I am chicken-hearted enough. "It was now so late that I could not return home to dinner, as I had intended to do, but sat down to the plentiful table of my new friends. We had much agreeable chat, and a favorable opening being afforded for the purpose, I did something, I hope, toward the removal of prejudice, and sowing good seed for the church. "And now, my dear mother, having answered some of your inquiries, and crossed and recrossed my paper until it refuses to be scribbled upon any more, I must take advantage of one little corner to add, with much love to father, and all friends, that I am, as ever, your affectionate son,   "EDWARD IASON. Christmas was now close at hand, and as it would come this year upon Sunday, the ladies determined to put up some evergreens in the courthouse, although, as may be readily imagined, no adorning, however tasteful, could render such a place very attractive. But the evergreens were not carried to the courthouse, and that for a reason which I shall shortly explain.   BREAKERS AHEAD.        55 CHAPTER    VIII. Confusion in the Camp.-- Mr. Bilger's Plot.- Neighbor Larkins.- Preaching on the 25th. --Short Horse soon curried. - Hating the Church.-- Mrs. Peyton's Parlor.-- Effects of Persecution.- Hard Anvil.-- Evergreens.- Mr. Holton absent. THE church people of Rockford had enjoyed undis- puted possession of the courthouse on Sundays, du- ring the whole of Mr. Latitude's incumbency; and as most of the leading denominations had places of wor- ship of their own, there seemed little probability that Mr. Mason would have any difficulty in securing the same privilege. But, in sailing over even a smooth sea, it is not always possible to say what breakers may be ahead. In describing the funeral of Mrs. Smith in a former chapter, I mentioned incidentally that Mr. Bilger, a Seventh-day Baptist 'preacher, was present, and en- joyed his own cogitations on the occasion. I must now beg the reader to go with me, a few miles out of town, to the house of this, important per- sonage. Mr. Bilger was a farmer as well as preacher; and not being called upon very often to officiate in the pulpit, he had ample time to attend to his stock and his crops. Although belonging to what is called   56    FULL PROOF OF THE MINISTRY.         the Baptist Church (a powerful body in some quarters of the Union, so far as number is concerned), the particular division to which he was more especially attached, did not present a very formidable array. Be the Baptist rock ever so large, if you suppose for a moment that it is one solid mass, yet by the time that you have analyzed its component parts-and separated the Seven-Principle Baptists, Church-of-God Baptists, Free-Communion Baptists, Free-Will Bap- tists, Hard-Shell Baptists, Soft-Shell Baptists, Little- Children Baptists, Glory-Alleluia Baptists, Christian Baptists, Ironsides Baptists, and divers other sorts which might be mentioned-the great rock is re- duced to a number of comparatively small fragments. This explanation will show why Mr. Bilger's time was not fully occupied in his ministerial capacity. But he seems to have some scheme on foot just now. Let us try to find out what it is. That is Mr. Bilger, sitting with his white hat on, puffing away at his pipe, by the large fireplace. His thick-set, robust figure shows that he does not much regard St. Paul's practice of being "in fastings' often." He is con- versing very earnestly with his neighbor Larkins. Bilger. There will be no trouble, I tell you. We can get the courthouse. Larkins. Don't the Episcopalians use that? . Bilger. What if they do? We have as good a    ! right to it as they have, and I am determined to have ? preaching there at-least one Sunday in the month.   .   \         .u-   OPPOSITION.        57 Larkins. Well, if the thing can be done, I shall be mighty glad. The winter is so open, it won't take much coal to warm up, and I reckon some of the neighbors will give that. Bilger. O, the expense is nothing. I mean to ride in, and have notice given for preaching on the 25th. Larkins. How many members have we got in town, neighbor? Bilger. Why, a pretty smart chance. There is Presley Baker and his wife, and Billy Dorchester, and Miss Pullin, and old Mrs. Starkey- Larkins. I thought she gave in her letter to the Reformers, last fall? Bilger. Maybe she did. But we have a plenty left. Let me see: There is Miss Pullin-Presley Baker and- Larkins. You counted them before.--But it don't matter: many or few, we are bound to hold meetings, and the sooner we begin the better. Bilger. So I  say. As soon as these tormented Episcopals get rooted anywhere, you can't stop them; and I mean to do my best to cripple the old, proud, formality church. If the reader has not heard enough to ruffle his good temper somewhat, I freely acknowledge that he is more happily constituted than I can claim to be. There are some other persons who will be interested in this matter. Our friend, the missionary at Rockford, was busily 3'    58    FULL PROOF OF THE MINISTRY.   / engaged on Friday in writing his sermon for Christ- mas-now only two days off-when Mr. Perkins came in, with rather an excited look, and said: "I fear, Mr. Mason, that we are headed this time. Mr. Bilger is to preach in the courthouse on Sunday." "(On Christmas?" exclaimed Mr. Mason, with sur- prise. "Yes," answered the lawyer, his dark eyes flash- ing as he spoke-" here is the notice in this morn- irg's Gazette." Mr. Mason took the paper and read asIfollows :- " By Divine permission, the Rev. Obadjah Bilger, of the Seventh-day Baptist Church, w4Leach in the courthouse on next Sabbath, the 25th inst., at " o'clock, A. M." "How can this be?" asked the clergyman, return- ing the Gazette to Mr. Perkins. "The case is simply this," returned the lawyer: "those folks hate the Church, and are afraid of her; and, knowing that the courthouse is common ground, they have claimed and secured their share in it." "Although it was rather discourteous to interrupt our arrangements so unceremoniously, we can not complain," said Mr. Mason, "and we ought to have anticipated something of the kind. But I should regret extremely not to be able to have our Christmas  services. Is there no large room about the town   i which we can get for that occasion?" Mr. Perkins shook his head. "There is a ball-   : ', /ji   SERVICE IN A PARLOR.      59 room at the hotel," he said, " but it would not answer our purpose at all. The only chafice I see is to get the loan of a good-sized parlor in some private house." "A happy thought," observed the clergyman, bright- ening up a little, "I wonder if Mrs. Peyton would not allow us to have hers?" "I am sure of it," answered Mr. Perkins, starting up at once, " and I will go and ask her this minute;" To make a long story short, the old lady gladly gave her consent, and Martin was sent around to the different church-families to inform them of this change in the place of meeting. We are told in the good book that during " a'great persecution against the Church at Jerusalem," the apostles, who were thus scattered abroad through distant regions, " went everywhere preaching the word" (Acts viii. 1-4) -so wonderfully does God, in his providence, make the wrath of man to praise him. Perhaps the efforts of Mr. Bilger to injure the feeble tendril of the same vine, now taking root in Rockford, may also prove to be a short-sighted and foolish plan. Indeed, it might have been well enough for him to have remembered what old Beza used to say: "The Church is an anvil which hath worn out riany a : hammer!"                   ? Christmas morning came, and the courthouse bell, which had hitherto summoned the church-people to prayers, now rang loudly for quite another purpose. It seemed somewhat awkward to Mr. Mason's flock   60    FULL PROOF OF THE MINISTRY.         I not to assemble in the accustomed fold, comfortless and unattractive as it was; but they made the best of circumstances, and at the usual hour found their way to Mrs. Peyton's parlor. Fortunately it was a large room, and Kitty and Fanny (the old lady's grand-daughters) had dressed it very prettily with evergreens. The congregation was unusually good, and, for the most part, devout during the service, and attentive to the sermon. Christmas is not altogether like itself without the celebration of the Lord's sup- per. But, for this deficiency there was no remedy, and the people were thankful for the blessings afforded them. One thing-a trifle, indeed, comparatively speaking--worried the young clergyman somewhat. He had taken considerable pains, as 1 mentioned, in showing Mr. Chambers's clerks how to find the places in the prayer-book, and was gratified by their beha- vior upon the last Sunday. To-day, however, Mr. Holton, the elder of them, was not present at service at all; and Mr. Preston, in whom Mr. Mason felt an especial interest, sat bolt upright, as if nailed to the chair, and did not utter one vocal sound. Per- haps he was embarrassed by being so close to Grace Forester. SI   PLANS FOR THE- FTURE.      61 CHAPTER IX. Council of War.- Plans for the Future. - Chbristmas Dinner. - Empty Chair. - Could not be helped.-- Good Measure.-- Unlooked-for Ar1 rival. - Long Chat. - Gates of Zion desolate.--Sowing broadcast. -Kindling for the Oven. - What to do with Tracts.-- Lot for a Church. - Better Courage. WEEN the services on Christmas morning were ended, several of the congregation tarried behind to make arrangements for the future. After much con- versation, during which sundry plans were proposed,. it was concluded to be inexpedient to meet any longer at the courthouse, because they would be liable to constant interruptions, and nobody could tell how soon the disciples of Joe Smith, or of Matthias, or the founder of some other new-fangled sect, might icome along, and claim their Sunday for preaching. It was accordingly agreed, that Mrs. Peyton's kind invita- tion should be, accepted, and services celebrated at her house, until better accommodations could be pro- vided. At this stage in the proceedings, Farmer Smith, who had brought in his family to church, pro- posed that there should, now and then, be preaching at his house in the country; and, as the neighbor- hood was thickly settled, Mr. Mason cheerfully con- sented, and promised to come out on the next Sunday   62    FULL PROOF OF THE MINISTRY. afternoon. Thus much having been accomplished, a1 went home to enjoy their Christmas dinners. Mrs. Chambers had provided bountifully for the occasion, and the large and happy family seated them- selves at the table. One chair was vacant. "Where is Mr. Holton?" inquired several voices at once. No one could answer. Toward the close of the din- ner, which had occupied more time than usual, the young man made his appearance, and, with some hes- itation of manner, accounted for his tardiness by say- ing that he had been to hear Mr. Bilger preach at the courthouse. "The next time you go there," said Kate Cham- whers, with an arch look, which conveyed more mis- chief than her words, " you had better take a lunch with you!" ('I shall certainly do so," answered Mr. Holton, if I am ever caught so again. I should not have gone this morning, but Miss Pullin met me on the street, and insisted so strongly upon it that I could not well refuse." In reply to various questions from Mrs. Chambers and the children, Mr. Holton went on to give a full description of what he had seen and heard; and, from his account, it would seem that Mr. Bilger, if he did i not equal Scott's "Mucklewrath" in impassioned elo- quence, certainly rivalled him most successfully in , the length of his prayers and sermon. Mr. Mason had been wondering why he had seen   i   ir. TURNER.         63 nothing of his old friend Turner, who lived only about sixty miles from Rockford, where he had a small church and school. A day or two after Christ- mas, the gentleman made his appearance at Mr. Chambers's door, and was ushered into the study and seated in the big chair, and a thousand questions put to him, before he could fairly realize where he was. There was so much to ask about college and seminary acquaintances, and so many reminiscences of the past to be recalled, that the two clergymen had to post- pone any particular discussion of their own private affairs, until the evening session, which commenced soon after dinner.       ' "Well, Turner," said his friehd, stirring up the fire preparatory to a long talk, , how does the Church flourish with you ?" "Rather poorly," answered Turner in a  despond- ing tone. "I have worked hard enough, I am sure, but I  see very few tokens for good.  Indeed, Isome- times get so disheartened, that I  am almost deter- m ined to go off to some more kindly soil. " 1Mr. M  ason. The work is dificult anywhere, and all hhve their vexations and trials. tqrner.   True; but m ine seem a ittle worse than common. We are completely cowed down by the overpo  wering influence of opposing sects; an d I am almost disposed to believe that J eremiah must have laad our peculiar cas e in view, when he said, in such beling mords ,  "The ways of Zion do mourn, because   "    FULL PROOF OF THE MINISTRY. none come to her solemn feasts; all her gates are desolate. Her adversaries are the chief; her ene- mies prosper." Mason. So things will continue to be, until the world is better instructed; and that requires -time and patience. Turner. Instructed! Why, man, I brought a whole trunk full of tracts on apostolical succession, and the other distinctive features of the church, and have scattered them broadcast; but there is the end of it. Mason. By no means. I venture to say that the good deacons and elders into whose hands they fell, lighted their pipes with them, and the old, female bigots committed them to the fiery oven! Turner. Then you agree with me that the distribu- tion of books and tracts will not do the work. Mason. They will help to do it, if you prepare the ground properly, before ydu sow the seed. My plan is to keep a good supply of choice tracts on hand (a very few varieties are enough), and, upon all fitting occasions, to give them away. Turner. And pray, what would you call fitting occasions? Mason. Why, for instance, when visiting a family in affliction, I would leave a tract suitable for their case. If, in the course of a conversation with any one, doctrinal subjects are introduced, whether re- lating to the ministry, or the worship of the church,  or what not I content myself with a few leading   BUYING A LOT.        65 remarks, and avoid all angry and excited discussion, which always does harm; and, before parting with the person with whom the conversation has been car- ried on, I offer to give hin a tract, which he can read calmly and quietly at home, and thus learn what the Church teaches us to believe. You may depend upon it, Turner, that your plan of dosing people with tracts, nolens volens, is a very unprofit- able business. Turner. I have certainly been playing the fool in this particular, and, with the hints you have dropped, will try and improve. Mrh. Mason was on the point of making some reply, when a servant announced that Mr. Perkins was wait- ing down stairs to see him. The active lawyer had been bustling about since Sunday, and had opened negotiations for a lot suitable for the erection of a church-building, and the object of his visit was to "Iake known this fact to the clergyman. The two gentlemen went off at once to see the ground; and, after a careful examination, they concluded that it would answer admirably. Before the week was over, Mr. Perkins had raised the money and bought the lot. So far, so good: but without a building upon it, the congregation would be as badly off as before, and certainly they were too feeble yet to erect a church. Mr. Mason had not much faith in begging help front aroad, which some of the vestry proposed, and it was finally determined   "    FULL PROOF OF THE MINISTRY. to put up a plain house, on one side of the lot, which - would answer for a school and a church, until money became more plenty. The purchase of the lot, and the preparations for building, made quite a stir in Rockford; and I am in hopes that the evidences of life which Mr. Turner witnessed may cause him to carry back a more cheerful heart to his own parish, whither he turned his face toward the close of the week. *  t   MARTHA JONES.        67 CHAPTER     X. Martha Jones.--East Indies.- Hope Deferred.-- Country Congrega- tion. - Twelve Prayer-Books. - Giving out the Pages. - Every Man a Penny.--Hitching about in Chairs.- New Doctrine. --Bright Eyes. -Planting Ac s.- Brother Bilger's Church. "WHY does 'Mrs. Peyton take so much interest in the youngest Miss Jones," inquired Mr. Mason of Mrs Chambers one day. "Did I never tell you about that romantic story?" replied the good woman, in qvident surprise- that such a choice bit should have been left untouched so long. "No, indeed," said the clergyman, whose curiosity was somewhat excited. "What is it?" "Why," returned Mrs. Chambers, Augustus Pey- ton and Martla Jones were about the same age, at- tended the same school, and played together for years and years, and, as might have been expected, when the young man got to be twenty, he offered himself to the fair one in due form. Miss Jones, who is con- siderably older than her sister, and had taken sole charge of her since the death of their parents, op- posed the match on the ground of the extreme youth of the parties; and so matters stood until Augustus became of age. He then renewed his suit, and the   68    FULL PROOF OF THE MINISTRY. objection was urged that he was engaged in no     business, and if he married, he would be obliged to  : depend upon his mother for support. This touched the young man's pride, and he went away rather hastily, declaring that he would never show his face here again without an ample fortune." " Is it supposed that Mr. Peyton was actually en- gaged to Miss Martha?" asked Mr. Mason. "This is what many persons believe," answered Mrs. Chambers, " and things certainly look like it. I For a long time they continued to correspond, and since his letters have stopped coming, the young lady has looked most woe-begone and wretched. as if mourning for the dead." , Whether they were engaged or not," remarked the clergyman, " the relations which existed between the parties would readily account for the interest which Mrs. Peyton so evidently cherishes for one who might have been her daughter-in-law. Poor girl-this state of uncertainty is most distressing indeed." "She shuts herself up so much at home," said Mrs. Chambers, "that her health will certainly be impaired. I have been thinking that I would ask her to ride out j with us to Mr. Smith's next Sunday afternoon. As  t she is an excellent singer, it will be a great help in the service."                   I Mr. Mason highly approved of the suggestion; and i as nothing important happened before the Sunday   SERVICE AT A FARM-HOUSE.     69 referred to, I may as well go on to say something of the events of that day. The regular morning service having been held in Mrs. Peyton's parlor, several persons set off after dinner, in carriages and on horseback, for Mr. Smith's. The country people were all waiting when the clergyman arrived, and considering that it was a farming community, and several, miles from town, we may be allowed to speak of it, without much risk of being, accused -of unreasonable exaggeration, as " a very great company." Mrs. Ford was there with the old prayer-book, which had outlived one cover, and had been honored with a new one;- and Mr Larkins, who had so warmly seconded his friend Bilger's pro- posals' for giving a sermon in the courthouse, on Christmas; -and a good many more whom Mr. Mason had met at the funeral. Mr. Chambers had brought out a dozen prayer-books in the carriage, and when the congregation was seated, he gave them to such as he thought would be most likely to take part in the responses. These books were all alike, and the clergyman, with one of the same edition in his hand, announced the page where the evening ser- vice began, and invited all who chose, to join with him in theworship of God. Any one who has never seen this simple arrangement carried out, would be astonished with what spirit and propriety those who are wholly unacquainted with the prayer-book be- fore, will follow the service to its close--more than   70    FULL PROOF 6F THE MINISTRY. gratified at the opportunity of having their share in what the preachers of their own denominations mo- nopolize for themselves. The sermon (extemporaneous, of course) was pon the much misunderstood parable of the laborers in the vineyard, in which the preacher showed, that while the Gentiles, who were only called to labor at the eleventh hour, would rightly receive an equal re- ward with the Jews, our Savior gives no encourage- : ment to the comfortable doctrine that waste our lives as we may, if we only repent at the last, our measure of happiness will be equal to that of the most devoted saint. Mr. Mason proved conclusively from the Scrip- ture, that there will be different degrees of rewards in heaven;-and that the sooner we enlist as soldiers of Christ, and the longer and more faithfully we serve, the brighter our diadems of glory;--and the nearer i we shall stand to the throne. The language of the sermon was so simple that the, children seemed deeply interested, and the negroes, who crowded the porch and the door-steps, paid the I most devout attention. Two or three old gray-headed i men, who had been waiting all their lives long for the Spirit to move them in some miraculous way, and who had settled down into the belief that as " a penny" : was all that the best Christians got, it was just as C well to die without having done or denied themselves . much for Christ, and expecting that a few prayers in their last hour would secure quite as good a place in i   THE HYMN.           71 heaven as those would enjoy who had devoted their lives to God, were evidently somewhat discomposed, and hitched about restlessly in their seats. May God fasten the truth upon their hearts. Martha Jones started the tune at the close of the remarks, and perhaps those who heard what they thought a new doctrine in the sermon, discovered something of the same in the hymn:- "O, happy is the man who hears Religion's warning voice, " And who celestial wisdom makes His early, only choice. "Her right hand offers to the just, Immortal, happy days: Her left, imperishable wealth And heavenly crowns displays. "And, as her holy labors rise, So her rewards increase; Her ways are ways of pleasantness, And all her paths are peace." Mr. Mason noticed a bright-eyed little girl during the service, looking  over in the prayer-book with her father, and responding with evident satisfaction. He accordingly singled her out after the service, and gave her a book, with which she was much delighted. This attracted the notice of other children, who gath- ered around, and   soon the whole dozen  wras distribu- ted. Mr. Mason  told the little folks that he hoped they would read  in their booktes every day, and when   72    FULL PROOF OF THE MINISTRY he came out again to preach, as he proposed to do in two weeks, they would be able to respond very well. As Mr. Chambers was about starting off with his carriage-load, Mr. Larkins bustled out, and thanked the clergyman for the sermon. "I belong," he said, "to Brother Bilger's church, but I am no bigot, and I like the truth wherever I hear it preached."             , Mr. Mason smiled, and Mrs. Chambers could not resist the temptation to ask the farmer how many  i churches we read of in the Bible, and in what chapter and verse "Brother Bilger's church" was mentioned. The controversy might have been a long one, had not Mr. Chambers cut short the thread of the argu- ment by driving away.   PLEASANT STORIES INTERRUPTED.    73 CHAPTER XI. Stories for Little Folks.-- New Plan.-Too Methodistical.-Low Mutterlings.-- Vediesday-Night Lectures.-- Hewing Timber out of the Thick Trees. -Day of Small Things. --Rising higher. --Eagle Hotel. Bishop Leighton.- Somebody from Egypt. - Milk and Honey. MR. CHAMBERS'S children, who had at first been rather shy of the strange clergyman, soon took a great fancy for him, and made the happy discovery ' that he possessed a wonderful faculty for entertaining little folks, by encouraging their harmless sports, and by telling them pleasant stories. It therefore soon came to be regarded as a settled thing that the hour immediately after supper belonged to them, when the wliole group might be seen gathering about Mr. Mason's chair, to hear again and again, with in- creasing delight, his account of a rabbit-warren which he had when a   child, and of Tom Hall, the miller's boy, and of many other wonderful matters; all of which the reader will find duly recorded in the earlier portion of these authentic memoirs. They were, however, now to lose this entertainment upon one night in the week, in consequence of more important business. Since Mr. Bilger's two-hours' sermon in the courthouse, our friend had been more 4   74    FULL PROOF OF THE MINISTRY. and more convinced that the wide gap between Sun-  ] day and Sunday ought, if possible, to be filled up with some intervening service, by which his little flock might be brought together, and their zeal and engagedness kept alive. There was no suitable place for such a service, and to tax- Mrs. Peyton's kindness for Sundays and week-days too, would be rather an imposition upon good nature. But when there is a will, there is a way; and so Mr. Mason found it. It was determined to have a lecture on Wednesday  nights at the houses of the parishioners, the names being arranged in alphabetical order, and the an- " nouncement duly made on Sunday as to where the next service would be held. Most of the people were very much pleased with the plan, but a few expressed themselves doubtful of its expediency or usefulness. Indeed, Dr. Gadsby, to whose powerful voice the Church was greatly indebted for the excellent music which was so generally admired, did not hesitate to say that the idea seemed to him quite too Metho- disticaland he could not think of countenancing such irregularities. Mr. Perkins came manfully to the rescue, and ar- . gued, very plausibly, that as their clergyman was a ' churchman of the Bishop Hobart stamp, there could  ,- be no great danger of his introducing customs con- trary to canon-law, and that the life and thriftiness of the Church would best be promoted by some addi- : tional effort of the sort. The low mutterings of the !   PROGRESS.        75 chorister did not interrupt or delay the perfecting of the plan; and the very next Sunday, notice was given that a lecture on Wednesday night might be expected at Mr. Chambers's, his being the first name on the list. At the time appointed, the people came together- not as many, of course, as on Sunday, but still a very respectable number of old and young. A hymn was sung, and the Lord's prayer, and general confession, and some collects were said; and then Mr. Mason began with St. Matthew's Gospel, and having read a chapter, commented upon it in a familiar way. This pleasant and profitable exercise was closed by singing and prayer.  Besides other advantages of this sys- tem, it proved, in the end, to be the means of estab- lishing family worship in several households, where this most important duty had hitherto been sadly neglected. And now the spring came, and the days began per- ceptibly to lengthen, and all kinds of work went on more vigorously, and the carpenters were busy in getting out timber for the little building which was to serve for a church. The several denominations who sat under the droppings of the pulpit in large and com- fortable structures of brick, smiled as they watched these efforts of the feeble body of Episcopalians, and apprehended no danger froi beginnings so small and unpromising. The work  was urged on as fast as possible, because the Sunday-school could not be   76    FULL PROOF OF THE MINISTRY.  expected to flourish without a convenient place in   ; which it might be gathered, to say nothing of the still greater obstacles in the way of building up a congregation. About this time it became necessary for Mr. Mason to change his lodgings. The arrangement at first had been merely temporary, and Mr. Chambers, in addition to his own large family, expected a visit from some relatives early in the summer. The family gave up Mr. Mason with reluctance, and he began to have a kind of home feeling himself, which rendered a removal far from agreeable. But where was he to go? There were no private board- ing-houses in the town of much reputation, and a tavern seemed the only alternative. This, at first thought, might appear to be the very worst place where a clergyman could take up his abode: but it certainly has its advantages, especially for an unmar- ried man. He is more free to go and come; visiters will call upon him with less hesitation; he can read- ily command a larger share of his time; and he is thrown in the way of forming many acquaintances, and rendering much incidental service for the church. Mr. Mason weighed these various reasons well, and then carried his books and inkstand to the Eagle hotel. Perhaps he never felt more desolate and for- lorn in his life, than when upon the first night, in this fresh page of experience, he took his place at the long supper-table, and saw a crowd of persons swal-  i   HOTEL-LODGINGS.       " lowing their food in hot haste, as if some unreason- able taskmaster had limited them to five short min- utes for the purpose; and, having finished his disa-' greeable meal, he retired to his lonely and not over- comfortable room. I am sure he sympathized very little with the saintly Bishop Leighton, whose desire, for years, it had been that he might die at an inn- which singular wish was finally granted him. Dreary as such a home most certainly was, to a person who had hitherto enjoyed the pleasures of so- cial life, it brought with it a realizing sense of de- pendence upon ONE who has promised to be with his people at all times, and under all circumstances-a Friend who " sticketh closer than a brother." Mr. Perkins considerately called in before bed- time, to see that everything had been conveniently arranged, and found the clergyman engaged in placing his books upon his shelves, and putting matters to rights as well as he could. ' Our neighbors, the Presbyterians and Metho- dists," observed Mr. Perkins, " are preparing a rich treat for the curious on next Sunday." "What is it?" asked Mr. Mason, expecting to hear of a quarterly meeting, or missionary sermon, with a live Chinese or Indian to grace the occasion with his presence. "Oh, nothing alarming at all," replied the lawyer. "The paper of to-day merely announces in large capitals, that the Rev. Cicero Smih, from Egypt, will preach in one place, and thlb Rev. Eupho-   78    FULL PROOF OF THE MINISTRY. mious Brown, a great revivalist, will hold forth in  - another."                       ' "It is a bad sign," remarked Mr. Mason, " when recourse must be had to such announcements to attract ; people to church. Although we are seldom guilty of this offence against good taste and propriety, we are not altogether free from the fault. The bishop's vis- X its to a parish may very properly be published in the j newspapers, but the ordinary services should be-quite !, enough to take us to the house of God, without the promise of milk and honey, from the lips of any : orator or divine." e.- 'I a'   A WEDDING.        T9 CHAPTER XII. The Priest wantel. -- Lantcrn for the Darkness, - Broad Cap-Border. -All the Babies of the Settlement. --Which is the Bride?- The Green Tumbler. - A Whole Dollar.--Euphonious Brown.-Revi- val. - Hopeftil Conversions. I HAVE just discovered, when too late to avail my- self of this valuable assistance, that Mr. Mason, in a letter to his father, had spoken of some of the changes and chances which I have had the trouble of descri- bbilg in the last few chapters. I will, however, give an extract from a communication of somewhat later date, which may not prove uninteresting. "I am sure," writes the young clergyman,." that mother and yourself would have been somewhat amused with a wedding at which I was called upon, lately, to officiate. About a mile from the town, at the end of a rough, and narrow lane, there is a little settlement of Irish, and wonderful to relate, protestant Irish. They always send for me to christen their children; and when we are able to, furnish church room for them, I hope they will regularly attend upon public worship. Well, now for my story. The other night I had taken my seat at my writing-table, for a good long study of two or three hours, when lo! and   80    FULL PROOF OF THE MINISTRY.  behold, a summons came that a man was in the hall, inquiring for the priest. Although I have not yet purchased to myself that good degree, I had no doubt that I was the person wanted, and accordingly went down. An Irishman addressed me as I approached, saying, with a slight brogue, 'Will your riverence plase to go with me to a widding to-night?' "' Certainly,' I answered; ' where is it to be?' "' At the sittlement,' said the son of Erin,' and I have even bro't a lantern to carry you safe thro' the dark.' "We accordingly set off, and in due time reached the little village of cabins-rather an improvement  : upon the pig-styes so abundant in the Emerald isle, i but after all, bearing a marked resemblance to the original copy. My conductor led the way to one of   the largest of these, and we went in without cere-  mony. An old lady, arrayed in a cap with a bounti- ful supply of ruffles, welcomed me, as I entered, and handed me a chair. Some arrangements appeared yet to be completed, so that I had abundance of time to look about me. In one corner of the room stood a large bed upon which all the babies of the settle- ment appeared to have been placed, for the sake of keeping them out of the way, and the sides of the room were lined with men and women, waiting in   a silence, to see the end. The centre of the floor was occupied by a table, which contained the wedding feast. Having waited until I was tired, and no one    THE MARRIAGE SERVICE.     81 showing a disposition to take the lead, I observed, that if everything was ready, we would begin the cer- emony. Again there was a pause. At last, in my perplexity, I turned to the old lady in the broad ruf- fled cap, and inquired which was the bride. She pointed to a bashful, blushing damsel, and then in- formed me that the young man in the blue coat was the husband elect. "I requested the parties to stand up, which they readily did, the man in one corner of the room, and the woman in another, as far apart as possible. This arrangement being corrected, and the space between them somewhat diminished, I went through with the service in due form, except the 'ring part,' as chil- dren call it;-because I deem it an utter absurdity for one who does not even own the coat on his back, to be endowing anybody I with all' his 'worldly goods.' "As soon as Michael and Judy had been pronounced man and wife, and the blessing had been given, I shook the happy couple by the hand, and was ,about to withdraw, when my old friend with the conspicu- ous cap-border again drew near and said, 'And sure, your riverence will not be afther laving without ta- king some noorishment?' I was in great doubt as to what this word might mean, but supposing that she referred to eating, I thanked her and declined, on the ground that I had so lately been to supper. She looked so disappointed that my heart smote me, and 4*   82    FULL PROOF OF THE MINISTRY. I told her that I would change my mind and 'take some nourishment.' A kindly smile lighted up her honest face as she took a whiskey bottle from the  ii table and poured out a generous libation into a green  glass! It was now too late to draw back, so screw- ing up my courage to the point of having my mouth burned with the fiery stuff, I raised the liquor to my lips, and wished the company much happiness.   X At this stage in the proceedings there was quite a  stir in the back part of the room, and the old lady, : : turning quickly in that direction, said, with some sharpness, ' Can't ye keep quiet from yer kissing, -: and his riverence still in the house? Several men :r followed me out of doors when I left, and among them my guide with the lantern. I supposed they  had merely come out of politeness, but one of them,  . who acted as spokesman, very gravely inquired how much I charged for my services. I replied, that peo- A pile gave us what they pleased, but that we never   ; charged anything. 'Oh, and indade, yer riverence mustn't take this long dark walk for nothing,' said - '; the man, at the same time pulling out a small piece :j of silver from his pocket, the others doing likewise. 4 The whole amount was about a dollar, which, from fear of hurti eng-MiPeelings, I thought it best to ac- cept. And so ended the wedding. You must tell     X Porter all about it. I am glad that he is pleased  with his position as assistant. There is no man whom  I would rather serve under in that capacity than the   REV. EUPHONIOUS BROWN.     83 good doctor, but I do not at all regret that I took the course which I did." I suppose that the Rev. Euphonious Brown, whose appointment to preach in Rockford was duly an- nounced in the "Observer" of Saturday, must have been a very eloquent man, for the Methodist bell rang three times on Monday night, and on several nights afterward, and upon inquiring the cause, Mr. Mason learned, with sorrow, that a revival was in progress. I say with sorrow, for the most skeptical and hard- ened men now living in the town had formerly been converted during excitement of this kind, and when the fever had run its course, they were ashamed of their weakness, and strayed off farther from the right path than before. But people 'are very reluctant to learn by experience-they would rather try experi- ments for themselves. And so Mr. Euphonious Brown kindled the fire, and fanned the flame lustily, and the pastor, Mr. Greenfield, exhorted, and shout- ed, and groaned, and threatened, until crowds came forward to the anxious-seat, and were prayed for in turn by the preachers, and by Brother Stone, the gro- cer, and Brother Allen, the blacksmith, and Brother Bradshaw, the squire, and Sister Briggs, and Sister Lewis, and Sister Brown. The result of it all was, that after the town had been kept in a state of confu- sion for a fortnight, and household affairs had been neglected, and the quiet, unobtrusive duties of the Christian life forgotten, a great company of old and   84    FULL PROOF OF THE MINISTRY. young were declared to have "experienced religion."  Upon the second Sunday night after the beginning   X of this revival, Mr. Greenfield read out in meeting, : with a very complacent countenance, the names of the   new converts;- a motley list indeed!         Ti It may be anticipating matters somewhat, but I   X may as well mention in this place, that of the forty  persons who were thus " hopefully converted," at the end of six months the names of two remained upon the church books as those of members in "good standing!"  So much for attempts to force religion in hot-beds, instead of being satisfied with slow and certain   t growth, such as the Scriptures speak of-first, the blade, then the ear; last of all, the full and ripened grain.-  , I * i   NEWS FROM CHNA.       85 CHAPTER    XIII. Mysterious Whisperings.- China and Japan.-Mother's Perplexity. - The Best Adviser. -New Chapel.-- Grateful Hearts. Growing Sunday-School.- Pappy wants you.- Rickety Staircase.-Death- Bed Repentance. EARLY in the season there were mysterious whis- perings in Rockford, about news which had been received from Augustus Peyton. No letter had ar- rived by the mail, for the postmaster and his clerk had carefully scanned every package, and would cer-  tainly have known the fact, if any had come to hand. It seems that a merchant of the place, while buying his spring goods at the east, had by chance fallen in with somebody just returned from China and Japan, who reported that he had seen Mr. Peyton at a trading-port, the name of which this somebody had forgotten. This rumor was quite enough to set the gossips at work, and an abundance of satisfaction they derived from it. But, however the truth might be exaggerated in this way, thus much seemed highly probable, that the long-absent one was yet alive. Of course the tidings soon reached the ears of those most interested in the matter, and hearts long sad- dened by apprehension and despair began again to 'flutter with hope.   86    FULL PROOF OF THE MINISTRY.  One day, Mr. Mason was hastily summoned to go to Mrs. Peyton's, and, upon reaching the house, he found the old lady in a very nervous and excited state.                        i "I have sent for you," she said, as soon as the cler- ! gyman entered the door, " to consult with you on a .. subject which disturbs me night and day." The clergyman bowed, as an intimation that she  -: should go on.                    :: "You know all about my poor dear boy," she con-  ^:: tinued--" his departure from home, his long absence, i and the months and years of anxiety which I have suffered on his account. Have you heard any of  these rumors which have been floatipg about of late in reference to him?"     (           A "I have, madam," answered Mr\Mason, " and I    K should have approached you on the shject before,  had I not feared that it might have seemed indelicate and obtrusive to do so."  "By no means," said the old lady with earnestness,  --" if there is a person on earth to whom I shouldi desire to unburden my sorrows, and apply for coun-  : sel, it is my pastor."       A "Have you seen the gentleman, yourself, who     i brought this report to town?" asked Mr. Mason.  "O yes," returned she, "I have conversed with him several times, and have gleaned every item of   ! information which he could possibly give; but, as he has even forgotten the name of the person whom he   THE SCHOOLHOO USE COMPLETED.    87 saw in New York, I can not devise any plan for pros- ecuting the inquiry." The clergyman sat for some time, lost in thought, and at last remarked:- "If I only knew the precise line of business in which this city merchant is engaged, it would bring the inquiry into a more tangible shape." "He is a tea-merchant," said Mrs. Peyton. "Keep up good courage, madam," said the clergy- man, rising in haste-"I hope that something may be done. My father has such an extensive acquaint- ance in New York, that, even with the unsatisfactory information which I can give, he will, very likely, be able to find the person we wish." The letter went by the next post; and while it is wending its way to the east, we must confine our attention again to church affairs at Rockford. By the middle of September, the little building was finished and used for divine service. It was very plain, and many an ordinary schoolhouse in the older states would surpass it in every respect; but it was neat and unpretending, and would serve a good pur- pose, like the tabernacle of old, until times and cir- cumstances should become ripe for the erection of a temple. I venture to say that grand cathedrals have been set apart for the service of Almighty God, where there were fewer really grateful hearts than when the songs of Zion were, for the first time, sung beneath this humble roof.   88    FULL PROOF OF THE MINISTRY. The Sunday-school now stood a much better chance for growth and usefulness; and Mr. Mason at once persuaded Miss Forester, and Miss Chambers, and Mr. Holton, and several others, to engage as teach- ers, in addition to the few stand-by's to whose devo- tion the school owed its existence. In order that the interest might not flag, he proposed to meet the teach- ers on the first Monday night of each month, to hear a report upon the state of their classes, and to read 3 to them such extracts from books and church-papers as had a bearing upon the business in which they  weie engaged.                     A trifling circumstance sometimes paves the way   for an important discovery, or throws down obstacles ? which have hindered the carrying out of a favorite measure. Mr. Mason had engaged to take tea at Captain Forester's. It was seldom that he indulged himself in this way,-but the very pressing invita- tion, and the prospect of meeting with several of his most intelligent parishioners, had induced him to accept. Just as he was preparing to go, a little girl, covered with .rags and dirt, presented herself at the door, and stood sucking her thumb, evidently afraid to speak to the minister. Hearing a slight noise, Mr. Mason looked behind him, and said to the child, in a kind tone: "Well, my little girl, do you wish to see me about anything?"-"Yes," she answered, with Quaker simplicity-"Pappy wants you." The clergyman found, after a careful cross-ques- ' ,*   VISIT TO A GARRET.      89 tioning, that the child's father was dangerously sick, and wished him to come and pray for him. In such a case it was impossible to refuse: so, having written a line to Mrs. Forester apologizing for his absence from supper, he went with the ragged girl. It would hardly be fair even to conjecture which way Mr. Mason would have decided, had there been only inclination to consult -Mrs. Forester, and Grace, and other agreeable people in one scale, to say noth- ing of the supper, and the edifying discourse--and a hovel, and wretchedness, and the pains nd agonies of a dying man, in the other. The clergyman, how- ever, had a conscience - an enliwhtenea' conscience- and he followed its guiding. The little girl led the way to a miserable dwelling, at the door of which a coarse, repulsive-looking woman was busy at the wash- tub, while several squalid children indulged without restraint in their noisy sports. The woman seemed so cool and unconcerned, that the clergyman thought it hardly possible that any one could be dying in the house; and, fearing that there might be some mistake, he inquired whether Mr. Avery lived there. The woman answered, "Yes," and pointed to a rickety staircase which led up into a dark garret, with only one little scuttle-hole to let in the air and the light. 'Here was the abode of wretchedness indeed-pov- erty and sickness, and their attendant ills, being all crowded into this narrow space. The sick man was coughinrg violently when Mr. Mason entered, and,   90    FULL PROOF OF. THE MINISTRY. exhausted by the effort, sank back speechless upon the bed. His wife hastened to moisten his lips with some water in a cup, and, when he had somewhat recovered, took up a baby from the blanket on the floor, where it was manifesting its disapprobation of such neglect by loud and deafening cries. The clergyman now sat down by the bed, and be- gan to converse with the poor sufferer, inquiring kindly as to the nature of his sickness, and the length of time he had been confined to the house, and then very naturally turned his thoughts from his perish- ing body, to the more important concerns of the soul. There was no time to be lost, for it was evi- dently a case of rapid consumption, and the sands of life had nearly run out. The sick man expressed great sorrow for his past misdoings, and begged Mr. Mason to pray for him, and to tell him what he must do to be saved. Alas!-it is the most trying position in which a clergyman can be placed, to be called upon to give advice to one who has waited until the eleventh hour is almost spent, before he can make up his mind to close in with the offers of salvation. Mr. Mason felt his responsibility deeply, and look- ing to God to guide him in a matter so all-important, he kneeled down, and prayed earnestly--saying, in the touching language of the visitation for the sick, "O most gracious Father, stir up, we beseech thee, in this thy servant, such sorrow for sin, and such fer- *O   PRAYER FOR THE SICK.      91 vent love for thee, as may in a short time do the work of many days, that among the praises which thy saints and holy angels shall sing to the honor of thy mercy through eternal ages, it may be to thy un- speakable glory, that thou hast redeemed his soul from eternal death."   ^    92    FULL PROOF OF THE MINISTRY. CHAPTER XIV. Sick Ma n Again.- Faithfulness.-- Baptism.-- Brand from the Burn- ing. - School for the Poor.- Raising Money. - Miss Oliver. -- Mustering the Children.--Sweet Promises.--Green Primers.-  Blooming Beauty. -Never lend Sermons.  IT was a late hour before Mr. Mason left the sick man's bedside, and the next morning he returned again. Mr. Avery was much worse, so low indeed, that he seemed scarcely to breathe at all-but when   told by his wife that the minister had come, he opened his eyes, and expressed his thanks in a feeble voice. Although the clergyman was not one of those who would encourage the baptism of whole nations of savages, as a thing most desirable, even if the re- M luctant candidates must be dragged to the font by force, he conscientiously regarded this holy sacra- ment as " generally necessary to salvation," and he thought that the various instances recorded in the book of Acts afforded full warrant for administering it to those who exhibit repentance and faith, without re- quiring any very long time for preparation. Above all, he believed that such liberty should most cer- tainly be allowed in cases of extreme sickness, and   DEATH OF AVERY.       93 accordingly he had spoken to Mr. Avery very seri- ously upon this subject, the night before. He now went over the ground again, and finding that in spite of extreme ignorance, anid a long-continued course of sin, that he showed much sorrow for his evil deeds, and an anxious desire to throw himself upon the Savior's mercy, pleading the merits of his complete atonement; he took a cup of clean water, and having offered the prayer for consecration, baptized him in the name of the Triune God. With the setting sun the sufferer's soul winged its way to another world. May not the faithful pastor hope to meet this " brand plucked from the burning," among that company of the blessed who shall ascribe glory and honor and thanksgiving unto the Lamb, who redeemed them to God by his blood? The sickness and death of Avery was the first oc- casion upon which the church had been brought into direct contact with the, very poor, in Rockford. I do not include the Irish settlement in this statement, be- cause these people were generally industrious and thriving. After the occurrences just described, Mr. Mason set vigorously to work to devise some plan for - elevating and improving the class of poor, neglected creatures, which had bien thus providentially brought to his notice. It would be quite impossible to per- form Miracles in changing the manners and habits of the old, but the children could be trained up under a different system. The- first thing therefore to be   "    FULL PROOF OF THE MINISTRY. done, was to establish a school for them. He spoke to a few persons on the subject, but they doubted thei practicability of the measure, and declined taking any part. An unwillingness to spend money, sometimes influences our judgments! Mr. Mason felt so well convinced that the plan, if properly carried out, would render most essential service to the church, that notwithstanding these discouragements, he reso- lutely persevered, heading a paper with a liberal subscription himself, and then handing it to Mr. Perkins to circulate among such as chose to give. The sum required (which was only a small one)  I was soon raised, and Miss Claxton, by the consent of the vestry, removed her school to the little chapel- thus leaving her old room to be occupied by the par- ish school. The next thing was to find a teacher. The moderate compensation which they were able to offer, made it out of the question to expect to employ one with extraordinary accomplishments-but these were by no means requisite. Any person qualified to teach the ordinary English branches would do quite as well for the kind of school proposed as a walking polyglot, boasting of an acquaintance with every branch of learning which could be mentioned. Mrs. Chambers suggested that they should employ Miss Oliver, a neat, tidy, and industrious young woman, who had often done sewing for the family. The only objection was, that she did not belong to the church, and -had always been under Baptist influences. Of   OPENING THE SCHOOL.      95 course Mr. Mason would have preferred that the teacher should be a communicant, but as it was not absolutely necessary, he authorized Mrs. Chambers to engage Miss Oliver's services, with the understand- ing that the school should open the next week. He then went to Mrs. Avery, and asked her to send her two oldest children, which she gladly promised to do, and remarked, that her neighbor down stairs would probably like some of hers to go also. The clergyman accordingly extended the same invitation to Mrs. Potts, and with the same result. Suppose we look into the little schoolhouse on the next Monday morning. Miss Oliver is sitting by the table, and Mr. Mason is showing her the places in the prayer-book. "I have brought a supply of prayer- books for the scholars who can read," he said, " and the school is to be opened every morning with the Psalms for the day, and the general confession, and the Lord's prayer." As this was a new business for Miss Oliver, he then found the psalter for the children, and went through with this little service himself, that she might know how it was to be done in future. About a dozen boys and girls of various sorts and sizes, had collected-all evidently the children of poor parents; some dirty, and ragged, and rude enough; and others clean, and neat, and well- behaved. "We must have a name for the school," said Mr.   96    FULL PROOF OF THE MINISTRY. Mason, when the opening exercises were finished; (" and as most of the scholars are girls, and we have a female teacher, I think we will call it St. Mary's school. You may tell any children whom you see wandering about in idleness, and learning nothing but I evil, that they can come here and be taught to read and write, and spell, and sew, without expense. And I think you will all like the school," he continued, "for wf shall do everything in our power to make it pleasant. On Christmas and Easter, I will have a feast fox the children, and give prizes to the six best scholarS." Here the little people smiled with great satisfac- tion, ad looked first at the clergyman, and then at the teacher, and then at one another, a little flaxen- haired girl smoothing down her check-apron, and a boy, whose chubby bare feet did not reach the floor, swung himself backward and forward upon the bench, and began- to study his spelling-book, most ambi- tiously. "I shall come in often," said Mr. Mason, " to see how you improve, and will hear you recite the cate- chism which is in those little green primers on the table. The first thing I want every child to learn is to say its prayers." He then informed Miss Oliver that the ladies of the church would take turns in visiting the school, and showing an interest in its welfare; and having wished her great success in her labors, he took his leave.   NEVER LEND SERMONS.       97 As he passed along the street, he met Grace For- ester, who looked even more blooming and beautiful than ever. "O, Mr. Mason," she said, as he stopped for a mo- ment to speak to her, " mamma desired me to ask you, in case I saw you, if you would not be kind enough to lend her the sermon which you preached yesterday morning. There was one part on baptism which she would like to copy and send to a friend who has long been living outside of the pale of the church." Mr. Mason must have desired to say yes. Who could refuse a request coming from such a quarter, and so sweetly expressed? The young clergyman hesitated. At length, how- ever, he replied, with his accustomed decision, "I am very sorry, Miss Grace, to appear disobliging, but from the beginning of my ministry, I have resolved to observe Bishop Ravenscroft's rule, never to lend a sermon." Would it not be better for the clergy and for the Church, if more would do likewise? 5   98    FULL PROOF OF THE MINISTRY. CHAPTER XV. Other Denominations.-Fourth of July.--Agree to disagree.--Mr. James.- Appeal to one of the Fathers.- Cold Shoulder. - Ven geance.- Training for Confirmation.-Holding by the Button.- How many are to be confirmed. NOTHNG has, thus far, been said in regard to Mr. Mason's intercourse with the ministers of the various denominations in Rockford-although, soon after his arrival, Mr. James, the Presbyterian, Mr. Greenfield, the Methodist, and Mr. M'Gruder, the Baptist, had called upon him, which visits had been duly returned. They were, no doubt, good, conscientious men; and, in the society of the Episcopal clergyman, all questions which might give rise to unpleasant and vain discus- sions were scrupulously avoided. Matters had gone on very harmoniously, each one confining himself to his own particular sphere, until a few days before the glorious Fourth of July, when Mr. Mason was informed by his Presbyterian brother that there would be a Sunday-school celebration on that day, and that the Episcopal Sunday-school was invited- to attend, and the clergyman to share in the religious services of the occasion. Mr. Mason tried to avoid coming to a direct issue with his well-meaning neighbor, by saying   AGREE TO DISAGREE.      99 that there had been a celebration of his Sunday-school at Easter, and that he did not see the particular fit- ness of the Fourth of July for such a purpose. These reasons did not satisfy Mr. James, who renewed his proposal with more earnestness than before, until Mr. Mason was obliged to tell him that he thought the only way for different denominations to get on quietly together, was to manage their affairs in their own way, and not to attempt unions, until the only true basis of union, a common faith, could be amicably agreed upon. Mr. James turned very red in the face, choked and stammered, and at length said, with con- siderable warmth: "I had hoped, sir, that in the progress and im- provement of this enlightened age, the exclusive and uncharitable features of your Church system had dis- appeared." "You must excuse me," said Mr. Mason, "but really I have said nothing which should call forth this feel- ing. I heartily desire to keep peace with my neigh- bors, and honestly believe that the only way to do it, is for each one to act according to his own conscience, and leave others to do the same." "Mr. Latitude always united with us in these ob- jects where all Christians can readily agree," re- marked Mr. James, who had now got better control of his temper, but was still unappeased, " and I see not how any other course can escape the charge of exclusiveness and intolerance."   100    FULL PROOF OF THE MINISTRY. "My eye fell upon a passage in Abbott's ' Corner- Stone' this morning," answered Mr. Mason, "which has a bearing upon this subject, and as the book is a sort of a standard with you, I will beg your permis- sion to read it." So saying, he took up the volume from the table, and read as follows: "If a class of Christians think that a certain mode of ordination is the only valid one, or that certain views of religious truth are essen- tial, they can not, of course, include those who differ from them in these respects in the circle of official ministerial intercourse. There is no bigotry or intol- erance in this. There is certainly no bigotry, or intolerance, in a man's doing what he himself thinks is right, if he does not molest his neighbors, or pre- vent, by other means than moral ones, their doing what they think right." Mr. Mason closed the book, and paused to give his visiter an opportunity to make some remark; but he waited in vain. Mr. James seized his hat, and plead- ing an engagement elsewhere as a reason for haste, took his leave. It was his last call upon the Episco- pal clergyman. They afterward exchanged the usual compliments on the street, but the Presbyterian ever cherished a secret grudge, which betrayed itself often enough in his sermons and otherwise, in the shape of severe remarks upon formality, and exclu- siveness, and the absurdity of the apostolical succes-   PREPARATION FOR CONFIRMATION.   101 sion, and the dangers of Puseyism, and the usual favorite topics of abuse. Mr. Mason had no time to waste in unavailing regrets at this disagreeable interview, but kept stead- ily on in the even tenor of his way. The building of the chapel, and the organization of the parish-school, engrossed his attention until September; and, as the bishop was expected toward the close of the next month, much time was requisite for looking up candi- dates for confirmation, and preparing them for this solemn rite. As soon as Mr. Mason received official information of the bishop's coming, due notice was given in church, and persons who wished to become candidates were invited to send in their names. But he was too well acquainted with human nature to expect that many would avail themselves of this per- mission. The timid, and irresolute, and desponding, must be privately approached by the clergyman, and their minds directed to the subject in such a manner as to interest and encourage. This, then, was* to be the chief employment of the next few weeks. Mr. Mason accordingly made out a list of all the persons in the parish who ought to be confirmed, and sought a favorable opportunity for conversing with each one separately, giving some a tract, and others a book, according to the taste and time which they had for reading, and their several ages and capacities. Nei- ther did he rest satisfied with one effort, but renewed the conversation, again and again, as occasion was   102    FULL PROOF OF THE MINISTRY. afforded him. One thing, however, he carefully avoid- ed,-and this was, giving advice or instruction to an individual in the presence of a third party. Many persons are backward about speaking on religious subjects at all: and if a clergyman desires to drive them from the church altogether, he need only make it a practice of holding them by the button, and de- livering them a homily on the street, or upon occa- sions when other eyes and ears will be open. As there never had been a confirmation in Rockford, considerable curiosity was felt to witness it, and the matter was often talked of at the tea-table and social gatherings. But, besides his efforts in private, Mr. Mason's ser- mons for several successive Sundays were directed to this subject. He began with a plain discourse, pre- senting the scriptural authority for this rite, and the qualifications required in those who came forward to receive it. Several good Presbyterians and Methodists looked astonished when, in order to show how generally con- firmation had been practised in the Church since the time of the apostles, he quoted the language of Calvin and Wesley, and even an acknowledgment made in the Presbyterian general assembly in this country. The sermons which followed were practical, and con- sisted of warnings to the slumbering and the head- strong, and encouragements to those who were afraid   CANDIDATES FOR CONFIRMATION,   103 to assume responsibilities which they feared they might be unable to meet. '"How many are to be confirmed?" was a question put to Mr. Mason twenty times a-day; but, not being certain himself, he invariably answered that he did not know. And then, if the more inquisitive asked, "who the candidates were," he gave them no satis- faction. It is extremely unpleasant to sensitive per- 'sons to have such things talked about; and not a few: would be kept back from the altar, if the fact must be published beforehand that it was their intention to present themselves.   104    FULL PROOF OF THE MINISTRY. CHAPTER XVI. Tidings ftom China.--Sun-Bonnets and Slate-Pencils.-Big Letter, --Anxiety relieved.-Turner's Experience.-Baptist Leaven.- Bishop's Visit.- Extra Prayer-Meeting.- Reformed Drunkard.- Well-chosen Lessons. - Twelve Candidates.- De Quincey. "A LETTER from Augustus Peyton, I declare!" ex- claimed the postmaster at Rockford, one day, opel- ing the various packages which had just arrived from the four quarters of the globe. I speak advisedly when I thus include the whole earth, because a post- office has even been established among the savage islanders who but a few years ago devoured Captain Cook for breakfast. The postmaster's exclamation attracted the atten- tion of his clerk, whose nimble fingers ceased for a moment to distribute the letters and papers among their appropriate boxes, and gazed intently upon the thick epistle with its foreign marks, which had been so long and so anxiously waited for. As was per- fectly natural, the postmaster told his wife about the letter, at dinner-time, and the clerk spoke of it among his acquaintances--the shop-boys in the neighbor- hood, and young misses, with sun-bonnets on, grind- ing slate-pencils between their teeth, who stopped to   "ETTER FROM TURNER.      105 ask for letters as they passed the office-door on their way to school-so that by night nearly every person in the town was duly informed that Mrs. Pey- ton:had received a letter from her son. From the size and weight of the package, it was shrewdly conjectured that it must also have contained some communication for Martha Jones, which was even so. As Mr. Ma- son's efforts in discovering the New York merchant who had met with Augustus had been thus successful, the mother, 'full of thankfulness, sent for the clergy- man without delay, to tell him the good news, and that they might rejoice together. Her son was safe, and most prosperous in business. He had written several letters home, as it appears, to which no an- swers had been received. The first disappointments he had attributed to irregularities in the mails, but when months and years had passed, and no tidings came, he feared, nay, he came to the settled convic- tion, that those whom he loved most on earth must be' numbered with the dead. The earliest informa- tion which he got, relieving his mind from this pain- ful suspense, was a letter from the tea-merchant of New York, written at the request of Mr. Mason, senior, who had become much interested in the sub- ject from the representations of his son. And now, while speaking of letters, I may as well mention one which came about this time from Turner, in which, among other things, he says: "I can never be too thankful about the hint you gave me as to the 5*   106'   FULL PROOF OF' THE MINISTRY. proper mode of distributing tracts. Soon after I   took charge of my parish, I was surprised to find that one of my communicants, who had formerly been a Baptist, had been so thoroughly indoctrinated with some of the peculiar views of that denomination, that she had never yet had her children christened. I discussed the question with her, and lent her tracts " on the subject, but all to no purpose. Indeed, this plan only served to rouse up the old Baptist spirit within her, and she really seemed to take a pride in trying to rebut my arguments, and to detect fal- lacies in the reasoning of the tracts. At last I re- solved to leave time and other influences to do their work, and actually gave the whole subject the go-by for many months. Soon after my return from Rock- ford, I called upon this person, in the regular course of pastoral visiting, and, before coming away, barely remarked, that several children would be baptized the next Friday afternoon, at service-time, and added in a careless way,' Suppose you bring yours around.' My tone was such as to convey the idea that I took it for granted she held the views of the church on this important subject, and that as a matter of course she desired to do right. She answered, without the least hesitation, that she would do so; and true to her word, upon the day appointed the children were brought. I am convinced from this and other cases which I could mention, that our best way to succeed, with many persons, is to teach positive truth, and not   THE CONFIRMATION.      107 trouble ourselves as much as some of us are wont to do, in rubbing up and reviving old prejudices." But I must not finish the chapter' without saying something about the confirmation, which was so anx- iously expected. The bishop came, according to the announcement which had been made, and a crowd turned out upon the occasion. It is true, Mr. James held a prayer-meeting at the same hour in the after- noon (a thing he had never done before), and Mr. Greenfield promised- his people a rich treat in the shape of an address from a reformed drunkard; and- the clappers of the Presbyterian and Methodist bells produced a great deal of noise on that bright Sunday- but it made no difference. Mr: James and his deacons had the prayer-meeting to themselves, and Mr. Green- field and the reformed drunkard having waited in vain for a congregation, concluded to go and see the confirmation themselves. The bishop had another clergyman travelling with him, so that there were three who took part in the services. Instead of the regular lessons from the calendar, which might have been entirely inappropriate, the fifty-fifth chapter of Isaiah was read, in which the blessings of salvation, under the beautiful image of living waters, are freely offered to every creature-and then a part of the eighth chapter of the book of Acts, where a confirma- tion in the apostles' days is spoken of, thus pointing out one of the regular channels through which these waters are conveyed to the fainting soul. After the   108    FULL PROOF OF THE MINISTRY. bishop's sermon, which enchained the attention of the congregation from the opening to the close, an inspir- ing hymn was sung, and the candidates for confirma-  : tion came forward.                   i Curiosity was on tiptoe to see who they would be.  : We are able to recognise some acquaintances among them. Here is Mr. Smith from the country, and his   -: daughter Julia, and Kate Chambers, and Grace For-   '. ester, and (do not be surprised, my reader, for stranger ? things have happened before) Frank Holton--one of Mr. Chambers's clerks, who enjoyed the benefit of the Rev. Obadiah Bilger's two-hour sermon, on Christmas  ' day, at the courthouse. There were twelve candi- dates in all;- a large number, considering the in- fancy of the parish, and the many drawhacks to its prosperity. At the close of the confirmation service, the choir struck up the Gloria in Excelsis, and the new recruits went back to their seats, while men and angels seemed thus to rejoice together over a specta- cle so cheering. I seldom witness the administration of this beauti- ful apostolic ordinance without recalling De Quin- cey's golden words: "Our English rite of confirma-  X tion, by which, in years of awakened reason, we take  a upon us the engagements contracted for us in our     slumbering infancy-how sublime a rite is that! T The little postern gate, through which the baby in its X cradle had been silently placed for a time within the X glory of God's countenance, suddenly rises to the   X *                  ]?i   "I REBAPTIZE MYSELF."     109 clouds as a triumphal arch, through which, with ban- ners displayed, and martial pomp, we make our sec- ond entry as crusading soldiers militant for God, by personal choice, and by sacramental oath. Each man says, in effect, 'Lo!--I rebaptize myself; and that which was once sworn to on my behalf, now I swear for myself.' "* "The, Vision of Sudden Death." - */   "O    FULL PROOF OF THE MINISTRY. CHAPTER XVII. Can it be Possible? -George Patterson.-Afraid to Commune.-Eat ing and Drinking Dam)nntion.-Velvet Bonnet.-- Dressing the Chapel. -Everybody Glad.--The White Cravat.--Do you charge Preach- ers? - Diet of Worms. MR. MASON had stopped in at Mr. Perkins's office one day to inquire about some church business when he found the lawyer reading a letter.-Having given the clergyman a seat, he turned to his clerk and said, "James, go down to the Eagle, and see if a room can be had for Mr. Patterson.-He will be here by Christmas." As the youth went out to obtain the desired infor- mation, Mr. Perkins remarked, that the person for whom he wished to obtain lodgings was to study law with him. "You called him Patterson, I think," observed Mr. Mason, not supposing, however, that he could have much interest in the matter. "Yes," answered Mr. Perkins, "George Patter- son." "George Patterson!" exclaimed the clergyman, and his eye kindled so brightly, and his tone ex- pressed such an interest, that the lawyer looked sur-   THE SCRUPLE.       Ill prised. "Can it be possible that this is my old col- lege chum?" "His mother is a widow," replied Mr. Perkins, "a very old friend of mine." "The same--it must be the same," said Mr. Mason, " this is an unexpected pleasure indeed." The clerk soon returned, and reported favorably, and the clergyman having finished his business, went to call on Mrs. Forester. -It was not a mere visit of ceremony, but one which had a particular object in view. He had observed with surprise and sorrow that she did not receive the holy communion on the day of the bishop's visit, although, until that moment, he had supposed that she would have been one of the first to avail herself of this precious privilege-a privilege which they had during a long time past, so seldom enjoyed. The subject was approached by the young clergy- man with great prudence and caution, and in the course of the conversation he simply remarked, "I was afraid, madam, that you might have been unwell the Sunday when the Lord's Supper was adminis- tered, as you left before that solemn service." "No," she answered with some embarrassment, "but I have never yet been able to persuade myself that I was worthy to receive it." "I should be very sorry," answered Mr. Mason, "if any one could bring himself to think that he was worthy to partake of a sacrament to which none are   FULL PROOF OF THE MINISTRY. invited to come but such as feel themselves unworthy so much as to gather up the crumbs under the Mas- ter's table. We ought not to regard the holy com- munion as a badge of saintship, or a reward placed upon a high shelf which we can only properly receive after we have really earned it, but as a means of grace." "There is a passage in one of St. Paul's epistles," said Mrs. Forester, bringing forward her objections and difficulties in the strongest way, "which has always alarmed me so much, that I am afraid it will be a long time before I can venture to run the risk of bringing down upon myself its terrible denuncia- tions." "I know to what you refer," interrupted the cler- gyman, and taking up a Testament from the table, he turned to 1 Corinthians, xi. 29, and read "He that eateth and drinketh unworthily, eateth and drink- eth damnation to himself, not discerning the Lord's body." "Yes, that is the passage," said Mrs. Forester, " it almost makes me shudder to hear it." " You ought to recollect, madam," continued Mr. Mason, " to whom these words were spoken, and why. St. Paulhad heard of the irreverent and profane be- havior of some of the members of the church in Corinth, a wicked and dissolute city, in which it was no easy matter to live free from contamination of some sort. These Christians at last had become so   t   perfectly shameless in their conduct, that even the temple of God was turned into a scene of riot and intemperance.  It was on account of such terrible abuses, that the apostle indignantly asks, 'What! have ye not houses to eat and drink in, or despise ye the church of God?  What shall I say to you? Shall I praise you in this ? I praise you not.' You see for yourself, that under the circumstances, very strong language was necessary to convince them of the heinousness of their sin." " I wonder that I never looked at that frightful verse which has been a stumbling block to me, in connection with the circumstances which you have mentioned," said Mrs. Forester.  "Your explana- tion has certainly cleared up my difficulties not a little. You think then, Mr. Mason, that the apostle's threatening is not to be considered as referring to our ordinary sins of omission and commission, which all of us must be conscious of, day by day ?" " By no means,'" answered Mr. Mason; " St. Paul would thus have pronounced sentence against him- self, since he, as well as others, were subject to in- firmities. He also-would have been the last person in the world to say one word which should dis- courage the humble and the penitent from approach- ing the table of the Lord." The clergyman might perhaps have added more, had not Grace at that moment entered the room, having just returned from  a walk.  She blushed  "4    FULL PROOF OF THE MINISTRY. deeply when she found herself thus unexpectedly in the presence of a visiter-for in her haste to tell her mother something about the purchase she had made, she did not notice at first that Mr. Mason was in the room. Her new winter bonnet was wonderfully be- coming, and when the young clergyman asked her to play some favorite air, and the velvet head-piece was removed, I believe he debated with himself for some minutes, whether she looked better with or without it, and I am disposed to think that he was unable positively to determine. His visit was much longer than he had intended, and as he took his leave, he promised to send Mrs. Forester a tract on the subject about which they had bSeen conversing. I will mention the name of the tract, in hopes that other clergymen will be led to cir- culate it among those of their people who may be perplexed by like fears and difficulties. It is enti- tled "Why are you not a communicant?" and is one of the publications of our Tract Society. As Christmas drew near, the 'young people began to make their preparations for decking the little chapel with evergreens, and congratulating them- selves that nobody would be able this year to hinder so beautiful a tribute of affection and gratitude to the infant Savior.- Miss Claxton dismissed*her school two days before the festival, in order to give time for a thorough sweeping and scouring, a process by no means undesirable. The, scholars of: St. Mary's   SCENE AT A TOLL-GATE.     115 school had their own reasons for being glad that Christmas was so near-and all, whether old or young, whom the Church embraced in her ample fold, felt the pulse beat quicker, and forgot many pains and sorrows of the past, in the pleasant anticipa- tion of a merry Christmas. In the midst of these preparations who should ar- rive but George Patterson, a fine-looking, intelligent young man, who was as much delighted to meet his old college friend, as that friend was to see him.- Owing to some accident, he had been obliged to leave the carriage, in which he had accomplished most of the journey, and finish it onll horseback. "Twelve miles on a hard horse was no very desirable sport," he said laughing, " but I got a good deal of amuse- ment out of an old codger, claiming to be a divine, who rode along with me. When we reined up at a turnpike-gate, and the woman came out for toll, my companion raised up 'his long neck to its fullest ex- tent, and pointing to his white cravat, said in an in- sinuating way, 'You don't charge preachers of the Gospel, do you?' But in spite of the white rag, he was obliged to pay, though very much against the grain. Finding him somewhat verdant, I began to spin yarns, and among other things, asked him what he thought of Luther and the Diet of Worms. 'Well, I declare,' he answered with all sincerity, did the sap-head take to that diet? Why it was enough to kill a horse!"   "6    FULL PROOF OF THE MINISTRY. When the two or three persons who were listening to this discourse had recovered from the effects of immoderate laughter, Mr. Perkins asked what sort of a looking man the preacher was. "Thick-set, and burly," said Patterson, " and rather sunburnt." "Mr. Bilger!" exclaimed all in one breath. "Bilger-- Bilger," answered the young man, " it was even he."   CHRISTMAS PRIZES.      117 C HAPTER XVIII. Our Savior's Birthday.-Children's Feast.-Good Behavior.-Widow Avery. - Hired Seats. - False Witness. - Wishing in Jericho.-- Turkey and Cranberry.--Who first kept Christmas?- Something new. CHRISTMAS! thrice-glorious Christmas! The church- people of -Rockford were impatiently waiting to wel- come its coming. It had been agreed that the school-children should have a little feast at ten o'clock, when the prizes were to be distributed, and then all were to march to church. Long before the hour appointed, a crowd of happy faces had gathered about the schoolhouse-door, and many eyes were turned in the direction from which Miss Oliver, the teacher, was expected. Shea made her appearance in due time, and soon afterward Mr. Mason came with a large package of books under his arm, followed by two colored men carrying a huge basket of good things for the feast. When all had quietly taken their seats, the Christmas hymn was sung, and then a vigorous attack began upon the con-' tents of the basket; and at the conclusion of the col- lation, six prizes, consisting of interesting books, were presented to the best scholars in the school. A joy- ful sunshine seemed to spread itself over the little    "8    FUILL PROOF OF THE MINISTRY. company; and when all these important matters had been duly attended to, Miss Oliver showed the children the places in the prayer-book, and having arranged them two and two, the girls ahead, they went on their way to church. Benches had been placed in front of the reading-desk for their accommodation, and their i behavior during the service did them great credit.  X Children who are thus trained up to regard the Church as a tender mother, are not apt, in' later years, to wander from her fold. After a quiet dinner with Mrs. Peyton and her grand-daughters, the clergyman went out to make some visits to the poor. Among the houses he stopped at was the Widow Avery's, where he found the children in high glee, telling their mother about the events of the morning. The apartment looked somewhat more tidy than it had done before, although there was still great room for improvement. "You don't go to church very often," said Mr. Mason, with a view of urging this obligation upon Mrs. Avery's attention. "No," she answered-I' mighty seldom. A lone woman with five children has a slim chance to go anywhere." "True enough, my friend," said the clergyman; "but our duty toward God is so very important, that we should not allow trifles to keep us from attending to it." "O, I am no heathen," observed the widow, per-   HRED SEATS.       119 haps a little nettled, although it may have been noth- ing more than her brisk way. "I have set under a heap of good preaching in my day, and old Elder Simmons dipped me the first of March will be five years ago." "You are a Baptist, then, I suppose," said Mr. Mason. "Yes," she answered, "a Close-communion Bap- tist." A discourse on apostolical succession not seeming to promise much success with such a beclouded mind, the clergyman merely inquired whether she had ever / attended the Episcopal Church. She replied: "Why yes, I went once to satisfy Sally Ann, my little girl, who set at me every Sunday; but I don't think I shall go again in a hurry." "Why not?" asked Mr. Mason with surprise- "Did you not like the service?" "O, the doings in meeting were all well enough," said Mrs. Avery, "so far as I am any judge; but I don't like to feel poked up in a hired seat, when I am afraid all the. time the owner may wish me in Jericho." "Hired seats!" exclaimed the clergyman, " what do you mean by that?" "Joel Briggs's wife told me," answered the widow, trying to untangle the mattel mop of hair upon her baby's head-"Joel Briggs's wife told me that the   120    FULL PROOF OF THE MINISTRY. Episcopalian seats was all rented, and that nobody was to sit in them but them that paid." If Mr. Mason had not been a very mild man, I sus- pect he would have wished Mrs. Briggs with her lying tongue much further off than Jericho; but paus- ing a moment, lest an unguarded expression should escape his lips,.he observed:-  "Mrs. Briggs is very much mistaken: we have no   : hired seats. Ours is a house of prayer, free to all people-and to none more free than to God's poor."  "Well, it is monstrous strange how people will talk," said Mrs. Avery, more astonished by this state- ment than her manner and words betrayed. "I de- clare I didn't see the tall candles they told me about, and the gennyflexions, and the puppet-show. It was all mighty solemn." "We pray to God for our persecutors and slander- ers every Sunday," remarked Mr. Mason with a sigh, "and I hope he will one day hear and answer us. Many persons seem to forget that there is any com- mandment which forbids our bearing false witness against our neighbors." The clergyman made one or two more visits before night, and then retired to his study. I dignify it by this name, although, in fact, it served the purpose of dormitory and parlor too. The lights are burning brilliantly in that fine- house opposite, and through the thin gauzy curtains a gay company may be seen at the supper-table.   WHO KEPT CHRISTMAS FIRST.    121 Mr. Rice, a wealthy merchant, and one of the right- hand men of Mr. James, the Presbyterian pastor, is entertaining his friends in a style becoming his wealth and standing. It is surprising, however, that one who traces back his pedigree to the worthies who came over in the May-Flower, should condescend to notice this sacred festival of the Church, even by a feast. "I wish Christmas came every week," said a pretty little miss of fourteen, who sat at that festive-board. "But pa, where does Christmas come from? I mean who kept Christmas first?" "I don't know, my child," answered Mr. Rice- '" perhaps Mrs. Peters can tell us, as she is well posted up in such matters." The lady whose authority was thus appealed to, graciously replied that the custom of keeping Christ- mas was supposed to date back to the times of the apostles. This statement seemed to produce no more effect than if she had named the Great Mogul, or General Bolivar, as the first to establish this time-honored festival. Mr. Rice ate his roast turkey and cran- berry-sauce with undoubted relish, and his worthy helpmeet pressed good things upon her guests. Again the little miss made herself heard above the unceasing activity and noise of knives and forks: "If Christmas is so old, pa, why don't we have our church open and keep it?" 6                   .   122    FULL PROOF OF THy MINISTRY. Mr. Rice was taking the stopple out of a decanter as she spoke, and, without raising his eyes, he said: "I have no time to answer you now, Anna;" and then bowing to Miss Porter, requested the pleasure of a glass of wine with her. My readers may perhaps be as sorry as I am that the good man could not spare a few minutes, to ex- plain to us why the very people who lay most stress   upon keeping the birthdays of temporal deliverers, show such contempt for the anniversary of the Sa-  vior's first appearance in the flesh. It is curious how ! our thoughts wander; but a little reflection will show that a natural chain connects the last link with the one so far removed, which was really the cause of the whole. Thus Mrs. Rice had heard this conversa-  tion about Christmas; and, from this, she began very naturally to remember what denomination of Chris- tians observed that day; and then she breaks out with a question, which seemed dragged in most ab- ruptly by the head and ears, because the company had not been allowed to watch the current of her thoughts:-  "Did you know, Mrs. Boardman, that Mr. Mason is engaged to Grace Forester?" The lady thus addressed confessed her ignorance on the subject; and I should not be surprised if the parties most interested in the matter would have been equally astonished at the intelligence.   THE DIOCESAN CONVENTION.     123 CHAPTER XIX. Diocesan Convention.--Many Bapti ms.-Ohs and Ahs.--Gloominess. -Parochial Visiting.- Leaning on the Gate.- Job Orton.-"I do no Good by Preaching."- Hammering a Rock. MR. MASO N was absent for a few days during the spring to attend the diocesan convention. It was not altogether convenient to go, and the distance and ex- pense were considerations of some moment to one with no spare time and a slender purse, but he felt it to be a duty, and this consideration outweighed all others. As the proceedings of the convention were pub- lished at the time, and those who choose can even now examine them in the journal, I shall not take the trouble to describe them. Toward the close of the session, the parochial reports were read, and much surprise was afterward expressed, that in a new and feeble parish like Rockford, the number of baptisms should be so great. "I do believe, brother Mason," said one fat, good- natured rector, " that you go about the town, and sprinkle all the babies you see!" Mr. Mason laughed, and answered that he took good care to baptize all whom he could lawfully reach, and   124   FULL PROOF OF THE MINISTRY. that he used every effort to bring this matter before the minds of parents. "I thought that they were nearly all Baptists in Rockford," remarked another clergyman; " of course you make no inroads on them." "Why do you say of course?" answered the young missionary. "The Baptists are a reasonable people, and if kindly and properly approached, are quite as open to conviction as their neighbors. Would you believe me when I tell you that I baptize as many children of Baptist parents, as those of any other de- nomination?"  Here the "Ohs!" and Ahs!" and "Is it possi- bles," and "How can this bes," began to multiply, and Mr. Mason, who had no wish to make his own affairs conspicuous, took advantage of the first open- ing to change the conversation. Our old acquaint- ance Turner, was however not to be thus easily satisfied, and as he walked with Mr. Mason to his lodgings, he began to retail his own difficulties and trials. "I am sure I take pains enough," he said, "in writing my sermons, and I am careful to give variety in the topics discussed-but still the congregation does not grow much." "Perhaps you are too particular in this respect," remarked his friend, "something is needed besides good preaching. Dr. Chalmers used to say that 'a house-going minister makes a church-going people.'   PASTORAL VISITING.     125 Faithful pastoral visiting, I am fully convinced, is the surest way of gaining a foothold in the affections of those whom we would win over to Christ and the church." "But I have no tact that way," said the other, mournfully. "Practice makes perfect here, as well as in other things," replied Mr. Mason. "There are a thousand little attentions a clergyman can show, which will do far more than his most elegant sermons. A relative who belonged to Ascension church, New York, once told me, that whenever Dr. Easthurn (that model of a parish priest) noticed one of the family absent from the pew on Sunday, he was sure to come around on Monday to inquire what was the matter." "But how upon earth can one make any headway with his studies," asked Mr. Turner, " if he is to run here and there and everywhere to look up the stray sheep?" "If both can not be properly attended to," an- swered Mr. Mason, " we ought to let the studies go -the other duty is unquestionably the most impor- tant." They had now reached their destination, and while Mr. Mason opened the gate to go in, his companion leaned his head upon the post, and looked so woe- begone, that the other took him by the arm, and while walking up and down the retired street, tried to say something encouraging.   126    FULL PROOF OF THE MINISTRY. "You look for the fruit of your labors too soon," continued Mr. Mason; " we must learn to wait and hope. Job Orton once wrote to an eminent clergy- man something after this manner: 'You say you do no good by preaching. This is talking weakly:--I had almost used a harder word. Should you not be chided for it?'-' Why do you leave off preaching?' said old Bishop Latimer to a complainer like you. He answered,' Because I do no good, my lord.' The bishop replied, 'That, brother is a naughty, a very naughty reason. You do not, know what good you have done, are doing, and yet may do, even after you are dead. No good man preaches, I am confident, without doing some good, and more than he knows of till the great discovering day. To do our best is our duty, and God will graciously accept and reward it. As to our blessed Master himself, it was said, "Who hath believed His report?"Who would have thought that you should ever have talked of doing no good by preaching, when God hath done you so much honor already in your clerical character? I am ashamed of you, and almost angry with you. Labor more and pray more still. "If the iron be blunt," as Solomon says, then put the more strength. If you begin to be lukewarm, whatever your motive is, it-can not be a good one. I am not clear if I ever was made an in- strument of considerable usefulness; yet I do not re- pent my attempts. I am humbled and ashamed daily that they are not better. Remember that preaching   HAMMER THE ROCK.      127 is of 'God's own appointment, and, when faithfully delivered, and agreeable to sound doctrine, the Di- vine Spirit will bless the messenger more or less, as seemeth good to the end he has appointed it, and to His all-wise sovereign purpose. "' "If I had a good friend like you to talk with now and then," said Mr. Turner, "I think I could keep up better courage, but really the opposition is so strong, and our growth so exceedingly slow, that it can not be wondered at that a man should sometimes be low-spirited." '"By no means," replied Mr. Mason, " and I occa- sionally get the blues myself; but plenty of out-door- work among my people soon drives them away. And then as to success, we ought to do our duty, and leave events to God. I remember hearing of a clergyman who became very low-spirited because his ministra- tions seemed so little blessed. About this time he had a dream, and thought that a person had hired him to work, and the price of his labor. per day, was stipulated. On inquiring what his employer would have him go about, he was told he must hammer a certain rock to pieces. 'That,' he replied,' will do no good; for the rock is large and hard-I could never break it to pieces.'- That is nothing to you,' said the gentleman, ' follow my directions, and I will pay you your wages.' The laborer then went to work; and though it appeared an endless, and there- fore useless task, he labored with diligence and pa-   128    FULL PROOF OF THE MINISTRY. tience for the sake of his wages. After awhile, con- trary to all his calculations, the mountainous rock broke into shivers. The minister saw that the dream contained instruction for him; he felt the reproof, resumed his courage, and was again blessed with see- ing the rocky hearts of many of his hearers broken by the hammer of God's Word."   PROFESSOR CROSSDALE'S SERMON.   129 CHAPTER XX. Professor Crossdale. -Where they ought not to be.- Two-Hour Ser- mon. - Gratified, and the Opposite.-Print the Sermon.- Buying a Bell.--"Where can we hang it?"- Tmpting Call. THE little church at Rockford was shut up for one Sunday, in consequence of the clergyman's absence at convention;--and when he reached home, early the next week, the whole town was in a buzz. Mr. James, the Presbyterian pastor, for reasons already familiar to the reader, had for a long time been cher- ishing a secret grudge against the church, and al- though too politic--if not too timid- to make any violent assault himself, he was more than willing to have it done by somebody else. He had accordingly invited the Rev. Professor Crossdale to come over and preach for him, giving him an inkling of what eort of a sermon would be acceptable. The meeting-house was crowded on that morning, and among the rest were some of Mr. Mason's flock, who preferred gratifying their curiosity to the safer and more satisfactory enjoyment of reading the ser- vice quietly at home, and learning wisdom from those valuable religious books with which the Church is so bountifully supplied. For one, I am very glad that 6'   130    FULL PROOF OF THE MINISTRY. the wandering sheep met with the reception they did, as it may, perhaps, be of use to them hereafter. It was evident from the very short chapter which Mr. James read, and the unusual curtailment of his stereotyped prayer, that the learned professor, who sat fanning himself on the sofa at the back of the spacious pulpit, had something very important to say. The hymn being finished, the stranger rose, with a thick manuscript in his hand, and having tucked a flaming red silk handkerchief under the big Bible, he cleared his throat and gave out the text. As there was no necessary connection between this verse of Scripture and the discourse which followed, it does not matter so much that it has escaped my memory. Suffice it to say, a sermon of two hours in length was devoted to the abuse of the Episcopal Church-a favorite theme with those whom it is so difficult to convince that even the gates of hell shall not prevail against the kingdom of our Lord. Some of Mr. James's people were delighted-he himself had drank in every word with greediness, and in imagination saw the little church in Rockford scat- tered to the winds-while the better classes, with refined feelings and Christian hearts, were mortified to see ther preachers thus forgetful of self-respect, and acting so contrary to the precepts of the Master whom they professed to serve. The church -people who' had so profitably- spent their Sunday morning in listening to this famous sermon, were indignant   ZEAL FOSTERED BY OPPOSITION.   131 enough, and expressed themselves without reserve. Two or three of the vestry called upon Mr. James the next morning, and requested him to get a copy of the professor's discourse to be published at their expense. He promised to do so, but there is no possibility of knowing how much exertion he put forth to obtain possession of the manuscript, and I can only say that the valuable document has never appeared in print. Mr. Perkins was the first to tell his pastor the news, and he became so very energetic, that he walked up and down the room, gesticulating as if in a case of life and death. "The thing must not be allowed to pass without notice," he said; " the ser- mon must be answered." Mr. Mason, as usual, was not thrown off his balance in the least, and tried to convince the excited lawyer that the attack was undeserving of attention-that the church people had better keep their tempers, and show themselves to be Christians by not rendering railing for railing-and that the spirit which had been stirred up might be turned to some account, by spurring up the congregation to buy a church-bell, which was so greatly needed. Mr. Perkins held out for some time, but finally, being convinced that the clergyman was right, he went away, saying that he would send out Patterson with a subscription paper that very day. The next Sunday more people than usual came to church, fully expecting that Mr. Mason would attempt   132    FULL PROOF OF THE MINISTRY. some reply to the attack of Professor Crossdale, but, very miuch to their surprise, he went through with the service as if nothing had happened, and preached a sermon on humility. But although, according to the wise advice of their clergyman, the Episcopalians ab- stained from retaliating upon their neighbors by coun- ter abuses, and thus keeping up an angry war of words, they bestirred themselves, and before two weeks had passed, they had purchased a bell, "large enough," as some of the sanguine ones said, "for a new church!" Mr. James and Professor Crossdale would have thought them crazy-but, fortunately, these gentle- men did not hear them. Well, one Monday morning the bell was seen lying on the ground by the church gate ;-but what next? There was no place to hang it, and the little chapel would not support a belfrey. Every one who was consulted had his own notion as to how the difficulty might be met, but no plan proved altogether satisfac- tory until old Mr. Thompson, the founder, gave it as his opinion that four strong posts might be set up at the back of the building, and the bell be hung there, until the parish was able to give it a more appropri- ate habitation. This plan was accordingly followed; and although it looked rather odd, the clapper did its duty most effectually; and whenever the festivals of the church came about, even during the busiest time of the week, everybody in Rockford knew, from the   A CALL TO A CITY PARISH.    133 silvery sounds which it sent forth, that the people were summoned to the sanctuary to keep holy-day. About this time, when the commotion excited by Professor Crossdale's onslaught had hardly died away, the church people were alarmed from a differ- ent cause. General Rumor (a very busy and impor- tant personage, by-the-way) reported with confidence that Mr. Mason had lately received a call to an im- portant city parish, where a large salary was offered him. Hie said nothing about it himself, and I can scarcely conceive how the news got abroad;-but it soon became the town talk-and some of the vestry called upon him, to express the' hope that he would not leave -them. They said they were fully sensible that other places might offer much greater attrac- tions, but that it was, all-important that the favorable beginning which had already been made in Rockford should not be suffered to be lost; and that no stran- ger could take' up the work where he left it, and go on with the same success. My reader, who is perhaps seated in his cushioned chair, beneath his own roof, and so sure that a good dinner will be ready at the accustomed hour that he has not troubled himself to inquire what the cook is preparing to satisfy the demands of appetite-my reader may say, without costing him  an effort, "Of course, Mr. Mason ought to remain." But let him remember the lot of the faithful missionary-stinted as to salary-over-taxed with   134    FULL PROOF OF THE MINISTRY. labor-and suffering inconveniences not a few, from being deprived of the comforts of a home-and I am sure he will give Mr. Mason more credit for declining a call, which would have afforded him so many advantages.   A CLERICAL VISITER.      135 CHAPTER    XXI. Rev. Dexter Doolittle. - Slow and Easy.- Lifting up the Eyes.- The LiLtle Foxes.- Bearing Testimony. - All going to Rome.-Four Boys dipped. Clerical Courtesy. IT was so very seldom that a travelling clergyman stopped at Rockford, that the arrival of such a per- sonage was rather an important event. One day, when Mr. Mason, for a wonder, had been engaged for an hour in his study without interruption, a vis- iter was announced. He proved to be a tall, lank figure -arrayed in a suit of black, with a white cravat so stiff and high as to threaten the loss of his ears- who, with a stately bow, announced himself as a brother clergyman, the Rev. Dexter Doolittle. Mr. iMason received the stranger with his usual politeness, and the new-comer soon made himself perfectly at home, throwing the books and papers into marvellous disorder, and spitting tobacco about the floor without ceremony. He soon showed himself to be such an intolerable bore, that Mr. Mason, who had been using all despatch to finish his sermon for Sunday, gave up in despair; and when Saturday came, and Mr. Doolittle still showed no symptoms of departing, he was obliged, in self-defence, to ask him to preach. The invitation   136    FULL PROOF OF THE MINISTRY. was readily accepted, and on Sunday morning the two clergymen made their appearance in the chancel. The children, and even some of their elders, were attracted by Mr. Doolittle's very peculiar manner of folding his hands, and devoutly lifting up his large, pale-gray eyes, in various parts of the service. But what surprised them most, was the long psalms and hymns which he gave out. The congregation had been accustomed to sing two or three verses only, which had a direct application to the subject of the sermon, and to the sacred seasons of the Church; but the strange clergyman seemed to go upon the principle that singing was singing, and he accordingly thought that no psalm or hymn could possibly be too long; and, by way of impressing the language upon the mind and heart, read it all over with a nasal twang, and then repeated the first verse a second time. It is a wonder he did not say the prayers twice, for the same purpose. But now for the ser- mon. I am sorry I am such a poor hand to remem- ber texts, for I can not say positively whether the verse chosen on this occasion was, "Take us the foxes, the little foxes, that spoil the vines" (Sol. Song, ". 15), or, "Their power is in their mouth, and in their tails" (Rev. ix. 19); but, at any rate, it was one of the two, and either would have answered the preacher's purpose equally well. After a startling introduction, in which flowers and stars were mingled together in sad confusion, Mr. Doolittle began with   PREACHNG ON PUSEYISM,     137 great boldness to give his testimony against the insid- ious leaven of Puseyism, which, according to his idea, was fast preparing the true Catholic Church of Christ for the deadliest errors of papal Rome-the scarlet lady of the seven hills. Mr. Mason sat very uneasily in his seat, and wish- ing most heartily that the sermon would soon be fin- ished. But he had plenty of time to calculate the chances of mischief from the delivery of such extreme opinions, as the preacher held on for a good hour. I have always been taught to believe that Puseyism is a very bad thing; and as Mr. Mason was a good and. true man, I am sure he could not have held to any doctrine contrary to those taught by the Church from the beginning. It was therefore the more mor- tifying to him, that after all his efforts to build up a parish in the faith of Christ, and to shelter his little flock against excitements from without, a stranger should stand in his pulpit, and tell the weary and distracted ones who had abandoned the loose and changing religious systems of modern date, and come to Zion as a quiet home - that even here, in God's own kingdom, there was no security nor peace. Every- body was glad when Mr. Doolittle had finished- some because they were tired, and some because the sermon was so disheartening; and old Mr. Thompson, the English founder, was heard to say to a neighbor, as he went out: "How the old Mother Church must have changed! Who would have thought to live to   138    FULL PROOF OF THE MINISTRY. see the time when all the bishops and clergy would be going back again to the pope-the monster who roasted Cranmer and Ridley at the stake!" In the afternoon, Mr. Mason had an appointment in the country; but he was not sorry that his consci- entious brother declined going with him, in conse- quence of a headache. The young clergyman came home at night, hoping and praying that the mischief done that day might soon be undone-when, to his utter amazement, he was told, upon inquiring for Mr. Doolittle, that he had gone to the. Baptist meeting in the afternoon, and had not yet returned. "What will the people think," he said to himself, " to see such diversities of preaching and practice among us? I teaching them, on one Sunday, that the Church has the truth, and that there alone they ought to seek it; and my meddlesome brother protesting, on the next Sunday, that the Church is rotten to the core, and setting the example himself of attending upon unauthorizedministrations."  In the midst of these painful cogitations, Mr. Doo- little made his- appearance. "Well, Brother Mason," he said, "I have about concluded I won't go to hear our neighbors preach any more. They always give me a sly rap over the knuckles. I heard a bell ring about the time I woke from my nap, this afternoon, and following the crowd, I found myself in the Baptist church, and when the   UNION.         139 sermon was done, I went to the water and saw four boys dipped-the fruit of a late revival." 4 Four boys!" exclaimed Mr. Mason. "How old were they?" "The oldest was ten, I suppose," answered the liberal-minded clergyman, " and I must say, I did not know before that this denomination practised infant baptism!" The conversation soon flagged,- as Mr. Mason was not altogether pleased with the events of the day, and, at the same time, did not think it would serve any good purpose to tell his obtuse friend what he thought of his conduct. What a pity it is that some of the clergy will not have a little more regard to courtesy, when officiating for their brethren. Although there are various shades of opinions among them, they can easily mingle together as fellow-labor- ers in the same glorious work, by making up their minds to be careful about rubbing against the sore places, and by touching chiefly upon those points where all can readily agree. The Apostle's Creed is a common bond of union. The high and low repeat, with the same unfaltering tone: "I believe in God, and in Jesus Christ, and in the holy Catholic Church." A high-churchman who occupies for a Sunday (by courtesy or exchange) the pulpit of his (so-called) evangelical brother, can easily select a theme which will cause no jar upon the ears of a congregation   "O    FULL PROOF OF THE MINISTRY. trained up in a different school; while the disciple of Simeon and Milner could readily reciprocate the kindness and consideration toward him who sympa- thizes most with the doctrines of Laud and Hobart. Let it not be said of any of us that we "preach Christ for envy and contention." -t,.,   SUNDAY-SCHOOL WEARINESS.     141 CHAPTER     XXII. Nervous Excitement.-Dont tire out your Suwnday School.-CShan- ging Opinions.-- Coming without a Letter.- Robbing a Hen-Roost.-- Exclusiveness.- Robert Smith. ON Monday the troublesome visiter took his depar- ture, most probably to bear his well-intentioned, but not always acceptable testimony elsewhere.-While Mr. Mason is recovering from the nervous excite- ment into which this painful infliction had thrown him, I may as well mention two or three things, which the hurry of the narrative has caused me to overlook. And first I ought to speak of the wonderful im- provement in the Sunday school. The opening of the little chapel, and the purchase of a nice library had given it a start, and the interest manifested by the clergyman, and the faithfulness of the teachers, increased its prosperity week by week. Mr. Mason had learned at least one important les- son in Sunday-school teaching, during his residence in New York, which he did not forget to act upon in his own parish. This was the wretched policy of wearing out the patience of the children by long les- sons and exercises, thus rendering Sunday the most   "2    FULL PROOF OF THE MINISTRY. oppressive and disagreeable day of the week, and totally unfitting them for joining in the services of the church with either pleasure or profit. The Sunday school at Rockford was opened punc- tually at nine, and when the town clock struck ten, the closing hymn was invariably sung, and the scholars dismissed; in this way allowing them an hour for rest, before church-time. While speaking of schools, it will be proper to state, that the parish school for poor children, which was taught during the week, was quietly doing its blessed work. When Mr. Mason went in to catechize the children (as he usually did two or three times a week), if any of them were absent, through sickness or other cause, he made it a rule to go and see them at their homes, no matter whether he was acquainted with the parents or not. Parents and children both were gratified at this attention, and the fruit of these familiar instructions at the school, and intercourse with the little ones at home, soon sprang up, and many of the old and young, presented themselves for baptism. I stated at the time of the organization of St. Mary's school, that the teacher employed was a Bap- tist, and that some objection had been made to Miss Oliver upon this account. The result showed that all such fears were ground- less; for by the time she had been a few months in the school, and had learned something about the   -MSS OLIVER BAPTIZED.    143 church, she began to feel an interest in it, and to enjoy the services. No improper influence was used to accomplish this object. It is true, some of the young ladies of the parish occasionally invited her to go to church with them, when there was no Baptist preaching; and one lent her the "History of a Pocket Prayer-Book," and "Keble's Christian Year," and "The Double Witness," but she showed no decided disposition to change her religious opinions, until after the bishop's visit. The confirmation service seemed to impress her very much, and soon she began to attend the church services every Sunday, and within a few weeks applied to Mr. Mason for bap- tism, which excited considerable surprise, and called forth some bitter remarks. The clergyman was roughly and roundly abused as an unprincipled pros- elyter, and the members of the church as a body, were branded as bigots. Miss Oliver met with one obstacle in making this proposed change, which she had not anticipated-the refusal of the Baptist preacher to give her a letter of dismission. Mr. Mason, however, obviated this difficulty by assuring her that the church did not expect nor require such letters from those coming to her bosom from different denominations, and that he himself must be the judge of her fitness to receive the ordinances of the Gospel. The baptism accordingly took place. About this time, George Patterson, who boarded at the same house with Mr.- Mason, had begun to   "4    FULL PROOF OF THE MINISTRY. take a good deal of interest in theological questions, and by a careful study of Chapman's Sermons and other works of the kind, had become naster of the incontrovertible arguments by which the Church sup- ports her high claims, and was ready, at all times, to break a lance with her adversaries. A day or so after Miss Oliver's baptism, happening to go into the store of Mr. Pryme, a worthy Baptist, the merchant opened a charge upon the Episcopalians, and waxing warm in the discussion, he said with great bitterness, "I would just as soon think of rob- bing a hen-roost, as to be going about stealing away members from other churches, as your minister does." The young lawyer found some difficulty in prevent- ing his indignation from boiling over, but biting his lip, and holding his peace for a moment, he answered with comparative composure, "You, Mr. Pryme, are a democrat, and I am a whig. Would you consider it quite as disreputable to try to convince me that my political opinions were wrong, and that it was my duty to vote your ticket, as to be guilty of the low and contemptible offence, to which you have had the politeness and presumption to liken the conduct of my pastor?" Mr. Pryme wriggled and twisted in his seat, but made no reply. Patterson continued: "You conscientiously be- lieve that democratic principles are just and right, and you try your best to bring over others to your   EXCLUSIVENESS.      145 way of thinking. Mr. Mason as honestly holds to the opinion that our Savior has but one church in the world, and he is most active and earnest in his en- deavors to draw all people into the true fold. Now I leave it to your own sense of propriety, whether he ought to be vilified for showing what you call a pros- elyting spirit, in the all-important concerns of reli- gion, while you, and thousands of other men, exhibit the same spirit in the trifling matter of politics." The merchant felt the ground giving way under him, so far as argument was concerned, and he began a graceful retreat. "Nobody denies that Mr. Mason is a gentleman, but the fault which I find with you Episcopalians is, that you are so extremely illiberal." -"What do you mean by illiberal?" asked our young friend with- spirit. "Do you consider any persons as baptized except they have been immersed?" "Of course not," answered Mr. Pryme, crustily. "Well then, your little fragment of a sect," said Patterson, " is certainly very liberal to pronounce all the rest of the world as unbaptized, and out of cove- nant with God, because, forsooth, they have not been plunged under the water, a mode of baptism, by the way, for which there is precious slim authority to be gleaned from the Bible: and you are the last peo- ple in the world who ought to be harping about the exclusiveness of others." Mr. Pryme did not say that he was glad to have the discussion broken off, but he looked very much 7   FULL PROOF OF THE MINISTRY. relieved when a customer came in, and occupied his thoughts about the price of calico, and tape, and buttons. As this chapter was designed to bring up arrear- ages in our history, I will change the subject rather abruptly, to inform the reader that Mr. Smith's son Robert, whose intelligence and manly appearance had attracted Mr. Mason's attention upon his visit to the farmer, after his mother's funeral, was now study- ing the classics with the clergyman. There being no good school for boys in Rockford, Mr. Mason had proposed that the lad should ride in every morning, and recite to him, secretly hoping that he might grad- ally bring such influences to bear upon his mind, as would lead him to confirmation, and ultimately, per- haps, to the study of theology. It was not altogether convenient or pleasant to have a student in a room so cramped and confined as his own; but Mr. Mason regarded this as a slight cross, which ought to be gladly borne, if it even promised in any remote de- gree, to be the means of accomplishing good.   DEVOTION TO DUTY.       147 CHAPTER XXIII. Sticking close at the Work. - Orientation. - Brass-Rubbings and Altar- Cloths. - Preaching the Gospel. - Another Funeral. -The White Horse. -Red and Blue Coats.- Pelting Storm. ALTHOUGH I have not allowed my reader to wander away much from Rockford, even so far as to keep him apprized of the active correspondence which Mr. Mason carried on with his kindred and near friends. I beg that it may once for all be understood, that none of these persons were forgotten. It may have excited surprise in the minds of some, that the young clergy- man should not have stolen away from his work long ere this to pay a visit to his parents, for whom he cherished such tender affection. In this respect, however, as in all thJigs else, he acted not from in- clination or interest, but upon purely conscientious principles, and remembering our Savior's solemn words, "Whosoever loveth father or mother more than Me, is not worthy of Me," he could not bring himself to believe that, under existing circumstan- ces, it would be right for him to leave the feeble church in Rockford, unless some imperative duty re- quired it. Among those college acquaintances from whom Mr. Mason received letters once in two or three   FULL PROOF OF THE MINISTRY. months, none was more dear to him than Porter, who, as you will recollect, was now an assistant minister in the city of New York. It would seem from some passages of a letter to this friend, which I shall now do myself the pleasure to quote, that he took a great interest in the affairs ofP the Ecclesiological Society, and some other kindred associations of the day:- "ROCKFORD, November 18th. "You must not be provoked with me, my dear old friend, for being somewhat amused at the glowing en- thusiasm, as breathed through your last epistle, in regard to orientation, and brass-rubbings, and altar- cloths! It is true, I have a decided taste for archi- tecture, and no one rejoices more than I do that the frightful, misshapen-looking buildings which our fa- thers called churches, are giving place to structures fashioned after correct models, and appropriately adorned. God's temple can not be too grand nor beautiful. But here in this broad western land, when I see the ignorance and destitution of religious privi- leges which everywhere prevails, it makes my heart sick to think that any to whom Christ has given a commission to preach the gospel, can be content to waste the jewelly hours of life in discussing the ques- tion whether the altar should be covered with white or red, in Advent, or whether the consecrated water from the font should be thrown out of the door or window (as good Mr. Palmer always did himself, and which very proper practice I myself observe) or rev-   A FUNERAL.       149   erently emptied into the piscena! Pardon me, dear Porter, if I have been too blunt and plain spoken- but you know of old, that I always honestly say what I think. Now, as a sort of salve for your wounded feelings (if, perchance, you do think hard of me for this), I will tell you about a funeral in the country, which I attended yesterday; and I may as well pre- mise, that it was quite different from any ceremony you ever witnessed in your life. "It was a gusty November day--more blustering than we are accustomed to in this mild clime-and your humble servant was quietly seated in his study, hearing his pupil, Robert Smith, construe some lines of Virgil, when a middle-aged man, soaked with rain, knocked at the door, and requested that I would hold myself in readiness to go with him to a funeral in the course of an hour. I cheerfully assented, and it was not until he had departed, that it occurred to my mind that the stranger had neglected to tell me whether the deceased was man, woman, or child. By this time, however, I have become so accustomed to the loose ways of attending to such matters here, that the circumstance gave me little uneasiness, and at the end of a long two hours, when the summons came that a carriage was waiting at the door, I hurried down, with my cloak wrapped about me, as some protection from the driving rain. The vehicle was pretty well crammed already, with old and young, of both sexes- relatives, as it turned out- of the elderly   150    FULL PROOF OF THE MINISTRY. matron who was dead;-but room was made for me, and we were soon splashing on our way. After a drive of about six miles, over a frightful dirt road (as country roads are called, to distinguish them from turnpikes), we came to a small, comfortless- looking cabin by the wayside. A crowd had assem- bled for the funeral, although the inconvenient hour appointed must have obliged all to lose their dinners in order to attend. After singing a familiar hymn, and reading the chapter from the burial service, and the usual prayers, I preached, off-hand, such a practi- cal sermon as promised to be most useful to the pro- miscuous assembly which filled the house and stood about the door. When the procession was about to move to the grave, the man who had called upon me in the morning said, in a low whisper,' There are so many children to go, and it is such a smart ways to the burying-ground, if you will ride my horse, some of the youngsters can take your place in the car- riage.' I begged him to make whatever arrangement he pleased; and you can imagine the strange figure I cut, mounted upon a raw-boned white horse, with rope bridle-reins--my long cloak flapping in the wind -and followed by the procession, something in this order: Next to the clergyman came a baggage-wag- on, labelled in yellow letters, 'Eagle Hotel,' in which the coffin was borne;--then the nearest relatives of the deceased, the women in a carriage, and the men on foot; next, several men on horseback, with blue   AT THE GRAVE.       151 and red blanket over-coats - some with a boy or girl riding behind them--then the carriage with the chil- dren; and last of all, a company on foot, trudging silently through the wet and mud. As the procession passed up and down the little hills, or wound along the high banks of a running stream, it presented a, most picturesque appearance, and I could not help contrasting this genuine manifestation of neighborly sympathy for the sorrowing, with the cold and heart- less proceedings which a fashionable city funeral so often presents. "It was at east a mile and and a half to the graveyard  a little enclosure at one corner of a field-and when the coffin was about to be lifted from the wagon, and borne by hand to the spot, my friend, the master of ceremonies, again approached, and inquired, with a sober and mysterious look, ' Do you wish to administer any more services before we put the old lady in the ground?' I shook my head, and suppressing the smile which, in spite of the so- lemnity of the occasion, involuntarily curled my lips, I took my station, beside the mourrers, at the head of the grave. When everything had been properly arranged, I repeated the service, as I always do, without the book; and I can truly say,/that never in my life did the touching language of our ancient ritual seem, to me so appropriate and beautiful, as when uttered over that rude grave, amid the cease- less peltings of the storm."   152    FULL PROOF OF THE MINISTRY. CHAPTER    XXIV. Christmas Eve.-"Who comes here?"-Wedding. - New Firm.- Present for the Bride.- Christmas Gifts.-- Indelible Mark. - Mar- riage-Feast.-The Good Degree.- Priests' Orders.-Encourage- ment. - "That was solemn."- Bishops' Sleeves.-"Not five Dol- lars among the Lot." MR. MASON'S third Christmas in Rockford was at- tended by some important events; and, among others, by an arrival and a wedding. On the eve of our Savior's birthday--while the stores, and shops, and market, were crowded with people buying good things for the morrow, and little folks were busy in their preparations to receive Santa Claus with becoming honors-who should make his appearance at his mother's door but Augustus Peyton! But we have no time to go in and listen to his story now, for we have a wedding to attend at Mr. Chambers's. The bride is the fair and cheerful Kate, the senior warden's eldest child; and the happy bridegroom, none other than Frank Holton, from whose intimate relations in the family we might have anticipated such a consummation long ago. The wed- ding was a very handsome affair; and, as the young people were to remain at home as usual (Frank hav- ing that day been admitted as a full partner in the busi-   THE NEGROES AT CHRISTMAS.    153 ness, under the style of "Chambers and Holton)," I am spared the pain of describing one of those dis- tressing scenes with which, not unfrequently, even a happy marriage ends-the parting between mother and daughter. At the close of the ceremony, when the clergyman called the bride by her new name, and wished her much happiness for the time to come, he presented her with the beautiful prayer-book which he had used in the service. Many a stray sheep, gow wandering from the fold, might have been kept within the green pastures, and beside the gentle and refresh- ing streams of Zion, if every clergyman had thought of offering this most appropriate remembrancer. Bright and early the next morning, the whole col- ored population of the town was wide awake, and, with ivory smiles, asking "Christmas gifts" of the friends they chanced to meet. What an indelible mark the Church has made upon the world! The books of law, the courts of justice, the assemblies of state, and even the untaught negroes, recognise the approach of Christmas, and Easter, and Whitsuntide; and, though they may profess to despise the Church, they can not help paying some regard to her insti- tutions. In the sermon on that day, Mr. Mason mentioned this striking fact, and tried to convince all who heard him, that while enjoying the benefits secured to them through the instrumentality of Christ's body, thus manifested in the world, they should not forget nor 7'   154    FULL PROOF OF THE MINISTRY. undervalue the source from which such privileges are derived. The Christmas dinner at Mr. Chambers's was also the wedding-feast, and the clergyman and several other friends were among the invited guests. But the festivities of this glorious day must not make us lose sight of the solemnities looked forward to upon the next Sunday. The bishop was expected, and Mr. Mason was to be admitted to priest's orders. Certainly, if devotion, and self-sacrifice, and unceas- ing toil, are qualifications which entitle one to claim the "good degree" promised to such as "use the office of a deacon well," our young friend need not be backward in seeking this gift at the bishop's hands. Beautiful as our ancient ritual is, it is nevertheless an undisguised fact, that as the service for the ordi- nation of priests is commonly performed, it is so extremely long as to wear out the strength and pa- tience of the most devout-to say nothing of its effects upon those who feel little or no interest in religion. To obviate this serious difficulty, it was proposed, on the present occasion, to have morning prayer at nine o'clock, which was accordingly done. At eleven o'clock, the usual hour for divine service, the appropriate words from the 106th selection were sung, beginning- "Clothe Thou thy priests with righteousness," etc. And then followed the sermon. The two presbyters, required by long-established   ORDAINED PRIEST.      155 usage, laid their hands upon the head of the candi- date, who humbly knelt at the chancel-rail; thus giv- ing their sanction to the solemn act which the bishop, by virtue of the authority of his office, is alone em- powered to perform. There was breathless silence throughout the crowded congregation, while the venerable successor of the apostles, with faltering voice, uttered those solemn words, which imply so much, "Take thou authority to execute the office of a priest in the Church of God, now committed to thee by the impo- sition of our hands. And be thou a faithful dispenser of the Word of God, and of his holy sacraments: In the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost. Amen." That man is to be greatly pitied who lightly, or unadvisedly, can take upon himself the awful vows of the priesthood. But, although Mr. Mason trem- bled to think what an additional weight was then placed upon his shoulders, he had been touchingly reminded, in the language of the prayer-book, of the unfailing Fountain of grace and strength, to which it was his privilege to resort; and as the searching questions, one by one, were asked, what a satisfaction it was to disclaim all self-dependence, and humbl: say: "I will endeavor so to do, the Lord being m: helper!" He could sympathize most deeply with the devou emotions which prompted a poet of our own to say-   156     FULL PROOF OF THE MINISTRY. "Alas for me, if I forget The memory of that day, Which fills my waking thoughts, nor yet E'en sleep can take away! ' How oft the bishop's form I see, And hear that thrilling tone, Demanding with authority The heart for God alone: Again I kneel as then I knelt, While he above me stands, And seem to feel, as then I felt, The pressure of his hands. "O Thou who in thy holy place Hast set thine orders three! Grant me, thy meanest servant, grace To win a good degree; That so replenished from above, And in my office tried, Thon mayst be honor'd, and in love Thy church be edified." "Well, I declare that was solemn!" said a stout, coarse-looking man, with a white cravat, addressing himself to Miss Claxton, the teacher, as the congre- gation dispersed after the administration of the holy communion. "Our services are all solemn, Mr. Bilger," she an- swered; for it was indeed our old acquaintance, the Seventh-day Baptist preacher. I believe he began to make some lame excuse about his having been brought out that morning by curiosity to see the bish- op's sleeves: but we have already lost sight of him in the crowd, and we shall hardly be repaid for our trouble in elbowing our way to get near him again.   NOT FIVE DOLLARS IN THE LOT.    157 In the afternoon, twenty persons were confirmed, several of them very poor people, whom Mr. Mason's faithfulness had gathered into the church. I know that one good Presbyterian remarked with a sneer, the next day, that "there was not five dol- lars' worth of property among the lot!" Perhaps he forgot that such persons had souls, and that our blessed Savior himself took pleasure in go- ing about preaching the gospel to the poor. At any rate, the scoffer might have spared the remark, out of compassion for the mother who had brought her infant up with- her to the chancel, when she came to be blessed in confirmation, having no one to leave it with at home.   'ULL PROOF OF THE MINISTRY. CHAPTER XXV. Airing in the Stage.- Wind and Snow.- Proselyting.- Not so Fast. - Field ripe for Hnlrvst.--Baited Hook.-"What have you Read." --Prayers to the Virgin.-John the Baptist's Three Heads.- Fast Asleep. BESIDES holding service at Mr. Smith's and other places in the country, Mr. Mason was also accus- tomed to preach once a month on Monday nights, in a town about twenty miles from Rockford; and in order to meet this last appointment, he generally went in the stage. Upon going to the office early one morning, after having officiated the night before, he found the seats all taken, and although the wind blew cold, and snow was falling, he got up with the driver, and they were soon engaged in a friendly chat. The clergyman finding that the man was a native of the "Old Dominion," referred in the course of conversation to the ancient church of Virginia, and inquired whether some of his ancestors had not be- longed to it. "O yes," answered the driver, "and I was chris- tened in it myself, when a child." "I never see you at our services in Rockford," re- marked the clergyman.   I   STAGE-COACH COMPANION.   "No," said the driver, " my wife is a Reformer, and when I attend anywhere, I go with her." Without presenting the matter in an obtrusive way, at all, Mr. Mason tried by such a train of remark as he thought would strike the mind of his companion, to kindle some interest in the old church of his fathers, -and he succeeded so far as to draw from him a conditional promise to come to church the next Sunday. The stage now stopped at a sort of half-way house, and all of the passengers left except one man, and as the storm was increasing, our friend took shelter inside. If any person is disposed to blame Mr. Mason for this attempt to bring back an erring sheep into the right path, it will be some satisfaction to find that the stranger who remained in the stage, had some designs upon him. For the first mile or so they rode on in silence, with the exception of a few common-place remarks upon the weather, and the condition of the roads. Although Mr. Mason could not be certain that he had ever seen this person before, the stranger evi- dently knew him very well, as the course of his re- marks soon showed. Stranger. Have you had any late news from Oxford, sir, in reference to the reformation there? Mr. Mason. I suppose you mean by reformation,   160    FULL PROOF OF THE MINISTRY. the excitement about the party commonly known as Puseyites? Stranger. Yes. I think that the prayers of Cath- olics will soon be answered, and the Church of Eng- land will submit again to the authority of the pope. Mr. Mason. Your hopes are rather sanguine, my good sir, considering the slight indications toward such a marvellous change. Stranger. Surely the hundreds of your clergy who are joining the Catholic church, furnish some author- ity for my assertion. Mr. Mason. Not so fast, if you please; let us look at facts. In the Church of England we have more than sixteen thousand clergymen. Out of the ninety thLousand who have officiated at the altars of our Mother Church since the days of Elizabeth until now, not a hundred and fifty have gone to Rome; and out of the five thousand who have lived and labored in our own land, not twenty have apostatized from the faith. And certainly you would not argue that the crumbling of a few grains of sand from the mighty mass, is any evidence that the rock will fall. Perhaps the stranger felt that he had played his cards badly, for he changed the subject somewhat abruptly, and spoke of the favorable reports he had heard of our friends' benevolent operations in his parish, and of his astonishing success. Mr. Mason bowed, and the other -continued; "America is a field ripe for the harvest, and all that   CONTROVERSY.       161 the Catholic Church requires is to secure the help of devoted priests who will do for her what you are doing for your own church." And then, after a connecting remark or so, to con- ceal, so far as might be, the appearance of a hook be- neath the bait, he added, "Those of your clergy who have come to us, have been advanced at once to re- sponsible and honorable positions. I have two young men in my eye just now, who have lately attained to dignities in this way." Our friend who was somewhat puzzled whether he ought to be sorry or angry at such a bare-faced state- ment, having a particular object in view, preserved a dead silence, until the stranger inquired whether he had ever read Milner's "End of Controversy." "Yes," answered Mr. Mason, " and Dr. Jarvis's reply." "Have you met with Moehler's Symbolism?" con- tinued the stranger, resolutely determined not to be driven from his purpose. "I have read that too," answered the young cler- gyman, " and I may say all the popular works which treat of the differences between the Church of Rome and us." Stranger. We are very often calumniated and abused, and opinions and doctrines are attributed to us, by Protestant writers, which we do not hold." Mr. Mason. I readily grant you this, and I have too much self-respect to encourage the reading of   FULL PROOF OF THE MINISTRY. such fictions as "Maria Monk," and others which might be named-but when a man of the standing of Mr. Seymour pledges his word and honor for the startling statements which he makes in his "Morn- ings with the Jesuits"--I require no further evidence to convince me that Rome is essentially corrupt. Stranger. Corrupt! What am I to understand by that? Mr. Mason. Why that she exalted the Blessed Virgin to an actual equality with our Divine Lord, and offers prayers much more frequently to her, than to Him-and that she encourages a superstitious reverence for dead men's bones, and chips from the holy cross, and Stranger. Allow me to interrupt you, sir, if you please. Whatever the doctrines of the Catholic Church may be in regard to the Holy Mother of God, she does not oblige the new converts from Protestant- ism to receive all these things at once. They are only expected to adopt them as fast as their judgment is convinced. And as to relics Mr. Mason. That whole subject is soon settled, so far as I am concerned. When I am presented with the head of St. John the Baptist, as a sacred relic, in one city in Europe, and I know that I can go to other places and find the same saint's head there also, and being well satisfied that no living man ever yet had more than two heads, I am well assured   that a system which encourages such pious frauds, can not be very sound at the core. The conversation now began to flag, and by the time they reached Rockford, the two controversialists were sleeping, and nodding and starting this way and that, each on his own side of the coach. But Mr. Mason's adventures for that day were not yet done. After dinner a servant announced that a gentleman had called to see him in the morning, and would be in again toward night. Our friend ac- cordingly went out and made two or three visits which he had promised to pay, and attended to Rob- ert's lessons, and then waited with resignation for a fresh trial, if such it should prove to be. r  UIJLL PROOF OF THE MINISTRY. CHAPTER XXVI. Rabbi Marks. -Gullibility.- Bear's Oil and Brass. - No Sect in Par- ticular. - A little Deceit.- Extensive Acquaintance. - Preaching for Bishop Doane. - Levying a Contribution.- Visit to New York. - Soon back in the Harness. TRUE to his word, the visiter came back about sup- per-time, and introduced himself as the Rev. Dr. Adonijah Marks, a converted Jew. Mr. Mason had learned to look with suspicion upon these travelling celebrities;-for during his resi- dence at Rockford several had come to the place, and created considerable excitement by heart-rending ap- peals in behalf of some charitable object, who after- ward turned out to be arrant knaves. But the good people of the town were slow to learn, even by dear- bought experience, and each new arrival found many to credit his story, and contribute to the supply of his wants. Our .friend scanned pretty closely the sun-burnt, swarthy face of his new acquaintance, and it must be confessed that the well-greased soap-locks, and the display of rings and gewgaws, and the bold and push- ing manner, did not give him a very favorable im- pression of the character of Dr. Marks.   I   A CONVERTED JEW.   The descendant of Abraham, after some rambling chat, explained his business. He was travelling about, preaching and raising funds for the purpose of extending the light of Christianity among his be- nighted brethren. "A very commendable object, said Mr. Mason, when the fluent speaker allowed him room to edge in a word. "With what body of ChriPtians are you connected?" Dr. Marks looked a little confused, but quickly re- covering himself, answered, "I don't belong to any in particular;- I am friendly with all, and preach for all." He might have added, that he levied large contributions upon all, but he had his own reasons for not saying so. "I should think," remarked Mr. Mason, "that your countrymen would much sooner be convinced of the claims of Christianity, if the religion of Jesus should be presented to them in a more definite shape." "O let me assure you," interrupted Dr. Marks, "there is no difficulty on that point. We prefer your church, because you have forms of worship as the Jewish religion has." "Indeed!" said the clergyman. "And how do our neighbors relish this preference of yours?" "Why, they do not know it," returned the Jew, winking with his eye as he spoke. Here is a little evidence of deceit, thought our W    FULL PROOF OF THE MINISTRY. friend, but I will not be in haste to condemn; and so he very quietly asked what Episcopal clergymen he knew. "O, great many-hundreds," said Dr. Marks. "I know Bishop Doane, and Bishop Lee, and Bishop"- here he hesitated a little. "You are acquainted with Bishop Doane?" said Mr. Mason inquiringly. "Yes, very well. I have preached in his church." Our friend now looked amazed. A man without ministerial authority preaching in Bishop Doane's church! He had suspected deceit before -and now he was certain of falsehood. After some further conversation, Dr. Marks re- quested permission to make his appeal in church the next Sunday, but Mr. Mason positively refused. The fierce dark eyes of the Jew flashed with anger, and he made use of some strong expressions, with which I am unwilling to soil the white paper of this narra- tive, and then abruptly withdrew. Our friend took pains to caution those of his pa- rishioners who would be most likely to be imposed upon, against putting anything into the treasury of the Israelite, and, so far as he was concerned, there the matter ended. Dr. Marks could not have told Mr. James, the Presbyterian, and Mr. Greenfield, the Methodist, and Mr. M'Gruder, the Baptist, of his partiality for the Episcopal church, or they might not so readily have   I   allowed him to occupy their pulpits and collect money from their people. As I shall not have occasion to refer to our Jewish acquaintance again, I shall sim- ply add, that in the course of a few months, all who had given him money had the satisfaction of knowing that they had been helping to buy satin vests, and jewelry, and ale, and wine, for a false pretender, with a good appetite, who spent a pleasant life in travel- ling about the world at the expense of the credulous public. Early in the spring, a favorable opportunity pre- sented itself to Mr. Mason for visiting his relatives in New York, which he had scarcely ventured so soon to .promise himself. Mr. Turner, by acting upon the hints given him, had got matters into such a good train in his parish, that workmen had actually begun to enlarge and beautify his small and inconvenient church. As a short vacation occurred in his school about the same time, our young missionary applied to his friend to know whether he would be willing to spend a month in Rockford, while the repairs in his church were going on ;-to which proposal he cheerfully assented. We shall find, hereafter, that some important conse- quences grew out of this arrangement. I have so scrupulously avoided occupying any space by unnecessary episodes, that I shall not run the risk of fatiguing my readers by taking them on a journey to the north. It will be enough to say, that   FULL PROOF OF THE MINISTRY. Mr. Mason's trip was of essential service to his health, and a great source of gratification to his friends. After an absence of nearly four weeks, he was again in the harness at Rockford, making up for lost time by increasing diligence and faithfulness. No matter how perfectly competent a clergyman may be, so far as learning and eloquence are con- cerned, to render the kind service for a brother which Mr. Turner did for our friend, yet many little matters will of course be neglected, and the congre- gation will generally be right glad when their own pastor returns. Mr. Mason certainly felt that he was well repaid for his vexations and labors, when he saw the happi- ness among old and young which his arrival occa- sioned; and he thanked God and took courage. I must acknowledge, however, that he was rather cramped and uncomfortable for several days, as he involuntarily contrasted the size and appearance of his dingy cell in the third story of the tavern, with the more comfortable quarters he had so lately occu- pied in New York. But like the great apostle whose life should be a pattern to Christ's ministers, in all times, he prayed for grace to be contented in whatso- ever state of life it might please God to place him.   EXTtACTS FROM JOURNAL.   169        .,   CHAPTER XXVII. Sickly Summer. - Dr. Highpost's Daughters. - Discord in the Choir. - Playing Boatman.- The True Church never changes. - Bad Exam- ple. - Wasting Time with Paupers. -"What does Turner mean i"- Women without Souls. -Somewhat melted. THE ensuing summer was warm and unhealthy, and Mr. Mason found a great deal of outdoor work to do, in the way of visiting the sick. Perhaps some extracts from his private journal will be the most satisfactory method of giving some idea of his toils and trials- "July 24.-The Widow Avery was baptized at service this afternoon. I have been trying to pre- pare her for this step ever since her husband's death; but really it costs a world of trouble before old preju- dices can be overcome, and light be let in upon the darkened mind. Her house now looks so much more tidy than it once did, and the children's clothes are so carefully mended, that I am encouraged to believe that the widow is improving in many respects. "July 26. -A pleasant Sunday in some particulars, but a painful one in others. We had a larger con- gregation than usual, and I was hoping that our music 8   170    FULL PROOF OF THE MINISTRY. would be very good, when, much to my mortification, the first chant was a complete failure; and, although there was a slight improvement afterward, the whole thing dragged dreadfully. When I saw Dr. Gadsby, our worthy chorister, sitting down with the congre- gation, I knew that something must be wrong, anrd was sorry to learn, after service, that his sensitive feelings had been wounded by a remark innocently made with reference to the tunes generally sung by the choir. Musicians are so easily offended, that I fear I shall have no little trouble in bringing about har- mony again. "July 29.--The sickness seems to increase. Kitty and Fanny Lucas are both confined to the bed. My boy Robert has not been able to attend to his lessons for two days. It has been a great satisfaction to me to witness George Patterson's kind attentions to the poor during the continuance of the epidemic. "Avugust 2.-I have been out the whole afternoon in the rain and mud-not for my own pleasure, but, I hope, after the example of my Divine Master, ' who went about doing good.' Although I am a poor boat- man, I managed to row myself over the Big branch, which I was obliged to cross. "Aug. 17.-The sickness has almost disappeared, and we offered a thanksgiving in church, this morn- ing, in behalf of some whose feet have been mercifully turned back from the grave. It made my heart glad to hear Dr. Gadsby's voice once more in the choir,   DR. HGHPOST'S DAUGHTERS.    171 and I sincerely hope that it may be a long time before our peace is again disturbed. "AAug. 18.- While visiting Mrs. Syle, a Baptist, who had been confined to the house by the rheuma- tism for two months past, I read to her some portions from the prayer-book.  She seemed much moved, and said :- "' Why, sir, I used to hear my grandmother say 'these same words!' "' Very likely,' I answered--' The prayer-book is so old, that our ancestors, for ages back, have been familiar with it, and it has come down to us unadul- terated, being the pure and ancient faith.' "She paused a moment, and then remarked: ' I think that, after all, must be the true Church, be- cause it never chan^, es.' "There has been many a worse argument than this, and the world would certainly be much better off, if all people would hold fast to a certain and settled faith. "Aug. 25.-Several vexatious things have hap- pened during the last few days. Two daughters of the Rev. Dr. Highpost have been visiting in town for a fortnight. Knowing their father's standing in the church, I had hoped that the presence of accomplished ladies from abroad would give our folks a good idea of what rare fruit our system would produce under favorable circumstances of soil and culture, Much to my surprise, they have put a multitude of absurd   172    FULL PROOF OF THE MINISTRY. and fashionable notions into the heads of our young people; and yesterday, in church, they kept their seats during the whole service, and pretending not to know how to find the places, allowed Grace Forester to do it for them. There must have been something wrong in their early education, if there be any truth in Solomon's declaration, 'Train up a child in the way he should go, and when he is old, he will not depart from it.' I do not hold to the commonly- received doctrine that the children of clergymen are worse than those of other people; but if a few more Dr. Highposts should send out their offspring as speci- mens of the class, the point would soon be estab- lished. "I heard of an unkind remark made lately by one of my own people, which has troubled me more than the silly affectation of Dr. Highpost's daughters. It was to this effect-that ' if Mr. Mason chose to spend all his time among the paupers, he might look to them for support.' It is hard, when one sacrifices inclina- tion and comfort, and everything, for the sake of dis- charging his bounden duty, that he should be misrep- resented and found fault with. I hope at the last day to hear those gracious words addressed to me, unprofitable servant as I am: 'I was an hungered, and you gave me meat; I was thirsty, and you gave me drink; I was a stranger, and you took me in; naked, and you clothed me; I was sick, and you visited me.'   CONVERSATION ON DEATH.     173 "Aug. 28. -I wonder what makes Turner so much more punctual in writing to me than he used to be! Can it be that the little- messages in the shape of compliments, etc., to be delivered to Miss Claxton convey a meaning not apparent on the surface? He even speaks of coming to Rockford before a great while! "Aug. 30.-As it is my custom to call upon sick people, whether belonging to my own congregation or not, without expecting to be sent for, I stopped in to- day to see Mr. Ginnings, who is wasting away with consumption. It is almost amusing to observe the skill with which irreligious men will try to parry all attempts to approach them upon the great subject which should engagec their attention. They -hear you gladly so long as you confine yourself to the weather and the news; but when you hint, even very remotely, about the duty of thinking of death, they become rest- less and alarmed. Finding that I was disposed to broach this tabooed topic, Mr. Ginnings shrewdly asked me where I could finid a passage in the Bible which taught that women had souls,-at the same time repeating the verse which declares that God breathed 'a living soul' into Adam, although nothing is said of his having done so for Eve. I felt grieved that one so near to death should manifest such a tri- fling disposition, and told him, plainly, that he would find it quite unprofitable to be spending his time in vain speculations - that I had no doubt myself women   174    FULL PROOF OF PHE MINISTRY. had souls, as well as men--and that, even if he per- sisted in declaring they had not, he belonged to the favored sex which had been blessed with souls, and I hoped he would not forget that it might be saved or lost eternally. Then, without allowing the discussion to advance farther, I turned to the account given by St. John of the raising of' Lazarus, which so touch- ingly displays our Savior's love, and asked permission to read to him. He bowed assent; and at the close of the chapter, his mind seemed so melted and moved, that I ventured to kneel down and offer prayers in his behalf. As I took my leave, he urged me to come again; and his manner was so sincere, that I am sure he had taken no offence."    REMOVALS.         175 CHAPTER    XXVIII. Hundred Communicants. - Commendatory Letters. -Explosion, and Mischef. -Sermon for the Occasion.--Vision of an Hospital.- Dr. Percival Jebb. - High and Dry Preaching. - Stunted Tree. "THE day of small things," which so many are apt to despise, seemed now, by God's blessing, to be passed, so far as the church in Rockford was con- cerned. During the fourth year of Mr. Mason's min- istry, the number of communicants had increased to about a hundred. But this statement, of itself, would not show the real growth of the parish, because a good many who had been brought under church influ- ences, and partially moulded according to the pat- tern which she gives, besides seveKr regular mem- bers, had moved away. Mr. Mason took great pains, however, that'none of these should be lost to the church; for, not satisfied with merely putting into their hands an unsealed commendatory letter to the clergyman into whose neighborhood they were about to go, he also addressed a private communication to him by mail, that he might know precisely what course had best be pursued in order to keep alive any partiality for the church, or prevent those al- ready established from falling away. The carrying   176    FULL PROOF OF THE MINISTRY. out of such a plan costs trouble, but a faithful minis- ter of Christ is willing to take his full share of this. There were some manufacturing establishments near the town, which gave employment to many poor people, and where, also, children could make them- selves very useful. One Saturday morning, while everything was in successful operation, and no per- son dreaming of danger, a steam-engine, connected with one of the establishments, blew up, doing much damage to property, and killingv and wounding sev- eral who were engaged at work., These accidents are of so common occurrence, that I had no intention ,of producing a startling sensation by speaking of the catastrophe in this place, but have only introduced it as incidentally connected with something which will follow. The next morning, at church, the clergyman laid by the manuscript sermon which he had prepared, and delivered an extemporaneous discourse, adapted to the occasion;-drawing from the terrible circum- stance which had cast a gloom over the town, those important lessons which it was so well calculated to convey. The sight of the sufferers whom he visited, re- minded Mr. Mason more forcibly than ever, of the great need there was of an hospital, where the poor and the outcast could, in cases of necessity, be prop- erly attended to; and he made it the subject of espe- cial prayer, from that time forward, that God of his   DR. JEBB.        1" goodness, would in some way, provide means for this end. I had occasion, in a former chapter, to describe a visit made to Rockford by the Rev. Dexter Doolittle; and many peaceful months rolled by before another travelling clergyman came along to spend a Sunday in the place. At last, however, such a personage ap- peared-in the shape of Dr. Percival Jebb-with whose polished manners and general intelligence our young missionary was much pleased. This worthy clergyman belonged to the class of very old-fashioned high-churchmen, who look with suspicion upon the efforts of such as strive by unwonted energy and zeal to wake up the Church to a sense of her responsibili- ties, and to make her keep pace (not by changes in the faith, but by more abundant ltabors) with the ne- cessities of the times. He honestly thought it per- fectly unreasonable that the Church should be ex- pected to adapt herself to circumstances-but that she ought to sit up in stately dignity, waiting for people to come to their senses, and bow to XMr Divine authority. Accordingly, Dr. Jebb was much horrified to find that Mr. Mason had for some time omitted the ante-communion service, upon the ground that the whole service, however well adapted for settled con- gregations, was too long for one in a transition state. In all essential points they were perfectly agreed; while in smaller matters, but those very essential to 8*   "K   FULL PROOF OF THE MINISTRY. success in missionary operations, there was a wide difference between them. "What shall I preach to your people to-morrow?" inquired the doctor, as his young friend showed him the way to his room on Saturday night, after a long talk, which had left the candles marvellously short. "The gospel, of course," returned Mr. Mason, with a smile. "I never dictate to my brethren, and the only thing I insist on is, that they must not be unrea- sonable as to length." "The gospel" which the doctor preached to the promiscuous congregation on Sunday morning, was a well-digested, conclusive argument on the apostolical succession, which would have been admirably adapted for the chapel of a theological seminary, or an ordi- nary occasion, but which here was entirely out of place. The colored folks and children could not un- derstand one sentence, and the poor people who were fond of attending "Mr. Mason's church," as they called it, because the preaching was simple, sat with their mouths wide open; or, giving up in utter de- spair, composed themselves for a comfortable nap; while the intelligent members of other denominations who were present, did not relish it at all. "Perhaps I have been travelling over ground this morning, my good brother, which you have lately trod yourself," said Dr. Jebb, while unrobing himself after sermon; "but I think we can not go back to first principles too often."   PREACHNG ON APOSTOLICAL SUCCESSION. 179 "Those of my people who can appreciate the argu- ments," answered Mr. Mason, " study these points for themselves, in the church-books, with which we are pretty well supplied, but I seldom devote a whole sermon to the purpose." "Indeed!" said the doctor, in amazement. "Why, I have just finished a course in my own parish, which has occupied me for three months past." Mr. Mason looked with too much respect upon the doctor's hoary head, and felt too well convinced of his sincere devotion to his Master's service, to SAY any- thing which might perchance wound his feelings, but he could not help THNKING, that in all probability this constant harping upon one string, "THE CHURCH, THE CHURCH," to the exclusion of the practical duties of religion, might be the secret why the good man's parish, like a stunted shrub, with root, and trunk, and branches, and all the essentials of a tree, never increased in size. The Church HAS the apostolical succession, for which great blessing God's holy name be praised. Her clergy need not spend much time in proving to the world the validity of their credentials. Let them show forth the zeal, and love, and self-sacrifice, and perseverance, which those to whom such authority has been intrusted ought to manifest, and nobody will have the presumption to deny that they are, in deed and in truth, ministers of Christ and stewards of the mysteries of God.   180    FULL PROOF OF THE MINISTRY. CHAPTER XXIX. Journal.-Augustus I'eyton.-Vexi tions.-Too Much Whipping, and too Little.-A eddding.-Bishop Stewart and Bishop Selwyn.-- Something donue every Day.-.lemlmy Bnates.- Lame Pedlar.--Lent. - George Herbert.-Aspirations Ifter a Mitre.-A Magdalen.- Ellen Cox's Funeral.-"I always kneel."--Safe in the Jail. I QUOTED, a few pages back, from Mr. Mason's private journal, and I am only sorry it is so fragmen- tary in its character, that much must be supplied from other sources. Here follow some items more. "January 18.-Although my school for poor chil- dren, in the main, affords me great satisfaction, it is also the source of a thousand petty annoyances, which it requires much patience to bear with. Sometimes the teacher is sick, and there is trouble in finding a temporary supply; then again, children will be kept away because they have been punished, and others, because they are not punished. Some object because the ears are thumped, or the hands feruled, or the birch applied to the back; or because the disobedient urchins have been made to stand up for fifteen min.. utes in the middle of the floor. Upon the whole, however, by calling into use a great deal of that vir- tue in which Job so much excelled, I have managed to get on without any serious outhreak.   A WEDDING.        181 "( January 20.-Augustus Peyton to be married at last! The ceremony will take place on Tuesday next. Things which are so long talked of, do not excite much surprise. "January 24.-The wedding passed off delight- fully. I never saw Mrs. Peyton in such good spirits before. The bride and groom had made a very happy selection of friends to stand up with them. I could not but think as Grace Forester came in, leaning upon Patterson's arm, that perhaps one of these days they may follow the worthy examples which have been set them of late. "February 1.-I have been reading with great satisfaction the life of the excellent Bishop Stewart of Quebec, From the letters of Bishop Selwyn of New Zealand, I judge that in many respects, their characters are very much alike. May the labors and sacrifices of these devoted men stir me up to be more faithful! I feel every day to be lost, in which some- thing is not accomplished for the Church; and hence, unless actually confined to the house by sickness, I make it an invariable rule to visit one or two families every afternoon. "February 15.--One of the first sclolars in St. Miary's school, was Jemmy Bates, a: poor boy with a withered arm, and unfortunately the right one; thus rendering it impossible for him to work, and more difficult to write and cipher. He must have been   ,182    FULL PROOF OF THE MINISTRY. at least twelve or thirteen when he came to us, and it looked rather odd, to see his tall frame towering up above the pigmies by his side. Although natural- ly not very bright, Jemmy has applied himself most faithfully to his books, and can read and write, and do sums in the simpler rules of Arithmetic without much trouble. What is better than all this, he is a good boy, and was confirmed at the bishop's last visit. "Being rather too old to continue much longer under Miss Oliver's care, he has been desirous of get- ting into business of some sort. But here again his withered arm is a sad drawhack, as he could not very well perform the duties of the humblest clerk. It has been a favorite plan with him to go out as a sort of foot pedlar, making short circuits through the country with a pack on his back. I am by no means certain that such an arrangement will succeed, but it will be a satisfaction to know that we have at least helped him to make a trial. Our ladies have accord- ingly set him up in his unpretending business, and he started yesterday on his first journey. I am in hopes that Jemmy may prove to be a little missionary, and I have given him a parcel of tracts to scatter as he goes. We shall think of our poor crippled boy when- ever the clouds look threatening, or the rain begins to fall. "March 2.-Lent comes pretty early this season. I do hope that those of my people who were so unfor- tunate as to forget that amusements are not becoming   AIMNG AT THE BISHOPRIC.       183 for Christians during Lent, and attended concerts and other public exhibitions last year, will have more regard to appearances now. Would that we all had more of dear George Herbert's spirit! "'Welcome, dear fast of Lent! Who loves not thee, He loves not temperance or authority, But is composed of passion-- The Scriptures bid us FAST: the Church says Now, Give to thy mother what thou wouldst allow To every corporation. "'True Christians should be glad of an occasion To use their temperance, seeking no evasion, When good is seasonable; Unless authority, which should increase The obligation in u-., make it less; And power itself disable.'  "March 7.-I understand that some of the Meth- odists currently report that I am  so very ambitious as to be aiming after a mitre, and that this is the reason why I am anxious to have all the baptisms and confirmations possible-because (as these wise ones say) the clergyman whose parochial statistics count up the largest, is sure to succeed to the Episco-  pate! I can't imagine what they will contrive next. Mr. M'Gruder actually mentioned me by name, not long ago in his sermon, and cautioned his people to beware of the artful proselyter. Alas! he does me too much honor. I do not deserve such a distinction. "March 16.-Poor Mary Harrison!     And some worthy people will be so horrified if this repentant sinner (fallen because of the treacherous arts of men) is admitted to the fold, that they will not attend,   184    FULL PROOF OF THE MINISTRY. church any more! How little can they have of the Savior's spirit. Mary has been very attentive during the Lenten services, and if I see no good reason to change my mind before that time, she shall be bap- tized at Easter. It has come to a fine pass, indeed, if the Church is to be dishonored by caring for the poor, and made more respectable by having the coun- tenance of those who can afford to wear silks and broad-cloths. i"March 30.-Just returned from little Ellen Cox's funeral. She was one of the sprighthest girls in M3iss Oliver's school. I was at her father's yesterday after- noon when she died. A long and lingering sickness had wasted her to a shadow, but weak as she was, she took her mother's hand, and said 'I am going home!' Then making an effort to raise herself up in the bed, her mother inquired what she would like to have. '0 please lift me up,' she feebly whispered, 'that I may say my prayers once more.' I told her that as she was so very sick, she had better lie quiet- ly, and say her prayers in bed. 'No, no,' she per- sisted, making a great effort to speak, 'I always kneel down to say them, and I must do it now.' Her mother accordingly raised her up, and supported her while she repeated in a voice scarcely audible to mor- tal ears, but heard no doubt in Heaven, ' Our Father,' and "' Now I lay me down to sleep, I pray thee, Lord, my sonl to keep!' i   A CHLD'S FUNERAL.       185 Sweet, gentle lamb! the Good Shepherd removed her within an hour's space, from this world of sorrow, to a safe resting-place in His own bosom. The school children were all present at the funeral, and it brought tears to many eyes, to hear their little voices singing to a plaintive tune, the familiar words:- "' Hlow short the race our friend has run, Cut down in all her bloom, Tile course but yesterday begun, Now finished in the tomb!' "April 2.-Sent for in great haste to go to Mr. Stacey's. In one of his drunken frolics he has been beating his wife again-and she, poor woman, in her feeble health, can scarcely survive many such cruel assaults. I entered a complaint with the proper au- thorities, and have had him safely lodged in jail, where he will be boarded at the expense of the coun- ty, until he learns to behave himself better." tO ,   186    FULL PROOF OP THE MINISTRY. CHAPTER XXX. Another Confirmation.-- Robert Smith.-- Crowded Fold.-- Diverse Plans.-Lack of Money.-House of Cedar.--A Better Church. --Appeal to Conscience. -- "I *will think of the Matter." - Letter to the Vestry.-Astonishment tnid Gladness. -- Satisfaction in doing Goodl DURING the fifth summer of Mr. Mason's residence at Rockford, the bishop made another visit to the parish, and among the goodly number of persons con- firmed were our old friends, Mr. and Mrs. Ford, from the country, George Patterson, and Robert Smith. The last-named person was improving daily in his studies, and made himself so useful in the Sunday- school, that Mr. Mason felt more and more encour- aged to hope, that his wishes in regard to this prom- ising youth might yet be realized. The congregation had now quite outgrown the lit- tie fold appropriated for its use, and there began to be frequent and serious discussions in regard to the erection of a larger building. Some proposed to add to the old chapel; others insisted that it ,would be better to build a-new church out and out. There is no doubt that many persons will subscribe liberally toward a fine building, which promises to be an orna- ment to the town, who would give nothing for making   CHURCH-BUILDING.      187 alterations in an old one. Mr. Mason, therefore, took sides with those who advocated the building of a new church. Mr. Perkins, with his usual activity, went about with the paper; but, with all his efforts, a suf- ficient sum could not be obtained to put up such a building as it was considered the necessities of thle church required. What next was to be done? The clergyman had his own plans, and he now set about putting them into operation. By this time, Mr. Augustus Peyton was most com- fortably settled with his bride in a mansion which he had built since his return from India; and Mr. Mason thought within himself, "Can this man, whom our Heavenly Father has so signally blessed, be content to dwell in 'a house of cedar,' while the ark of the Lord, if not resting I within curtains,' is most wretch- edly provided for in this small and inconvenient school- room?"He also remembered a much-neglected ru- bric in the visitation of the sick, where the parish minister is told " often to put men in remembrance to take order for the settling of their temporal estates while they are in health," and to point out various channels in which a fair share of their worldly goods may be properly directed.' Mr. Mason felt the ex- treme delicacy of the task which he conscientiously believed he ought to perform, and prayed most fer- vently for direction from above. After weighing the matter thoroughly, and feeling more and more con- vinced, every day, that there was an abundance of   188    FULL PROOF OF THE MINISTRY. money lying idle in his own parish, which ought to be invested for the good of the church, he sought a favorable opportunity for conversing with Mr. Peyton upon the subject, and for trying to persuade him to give a much larger sum toward the projected building than he had promised. Very likely the successful merchant was somewhat surprised when he discovered the reason for Mr. Mason's special visit; but he was - too well bred to manifest irritation, even if he had felt any. The clergyman presented the whole subject to him in its various lights, showing that the Church in Rockford had now reached a critical point-a point when, if a suitable building could be erected, it was certain, by God's blessing, to go on prosperously; but if this effort should fail for lack of means, much which had been already gained, at the cost of so much toil, would be irrecoverably lost. He also spoke of the favor with which the Almighty regards the bounty of those who contribute toward the spread of the gospel, and the promises which have been left as an encouragement to such liberality. When Mr. Mason paused, and looked to the merchant for a re- ply, he simply remarked: 1"I will think of the matter, my good sir, and will give you an answer in a few days." That night, Mr. Peyton mentioned the subject to his wife, and the next day'to his mother, and both warmly seconded the clergyman's petition. About a week after this interview between the   A LIBERAL OFFER.'      189 clergyman and his friend, a meeting of the vestry was called, at the request of Mr. Mason,-who, hav- ing taken his seat as chairman, handed the following communication to the clerk, to be read aloud:--  TO THE VESTRY OF     CHURCH, ROCKFORD: "Gentlemen: Having learned, from various quar- ters, that the efforts which you have been making for the erection of a church-building havte not been alto- gether successful, and intimations having been given that the enterprise must fall through unless the pres- ent subscription can be largely increased, I respect- fully present the following proposal: If the vestry, with the funds already contributed, will erect a good and substantial parsonage upon one side of the church- lot-which, by your wise foresight, is sufficiently large for the purpose--I will, at my own expense, put up a church which shall satisfy the desires of all, so far as regards size and proportions. I shall only insist upon this one point-that I may be allowed to consult my own taste as to the style of architecture to be employed. ("Yours, very respectfully, "AUGUSTUS PEYTON." So great was the astonishment and delight called forth by this epistle, that the formality of a vestry- meeting was almost lost sight of, in the mutual con- gratulations and expressions of thankfulness. Mr. Perkins was the first to recover his self-possession,   190    FULL PROOF OF THE MINISTRY. and he proposed some appropriate resolutions on the occasion, which, of course, were unanimously adopted. At the close of their deliberations, Mr. Mason, who recognised the hand of God in this unlooked-for good tidings, felt that it would be wrong to separate with- out some expression of thankfulness to HIM who alone can open the heart, and provide means for the necessities of his Church. He therefore read with deep feeling the twenty-fifth hymn, and then united with those present in appropriate devotions. Could all of our rich men know how much satisfaction Mr. Peyton felt, after having penned the letter which has been recorded above, they would be encouraged to fol- low his noble example. As has been most truly and beautifully said, "All the wealth which, with an hon- est and true heart, we consecrate to the holy work of aiding in God's purposes of love to man, is a po- tent enemy subdued, and changed into an effectual friend. If our thoughts could go no further, and ascend no higher than the narrow bounds of time, how enduring and precious is the monument which is erected by the founder of a church to perpetuate his name and memory! An earthly conqueror may build a pyramid of skulls as a monument of his tlorse than brutal ferocity. Less disgusting memorials attest but the pride, the ambition, and the idle ostentation of the rich and great. The erection of a house of prayer passes on to distant generations, at once a name, a memory, and a blessing."* * Rev. Janmes Crlik, D. D.   CHURCH AND PARSONAGE.      1.91 CHAPTER XXXI. Plenty to talk about.--.Model for a Church.- Hopes of a Parsonage. - Breaking Ground. - Laying the Corner Stone. -Prayer for the Workmen. --With Heart and Voi'ce.- No Regrets.-The Devil again. - Something added to an- old Prayer. - Sneers and False- hoods. - Dying Robber. As may be very readily supposed, the circumstan- 'ces detailed in the last chapter created considerable sensation in Rockford, and some, who at first had laughed so heartily at the idea that the church would ever be established in the midst of so much opposi- tion, began to change their opinion. The persons engaged in the good work were resolute and deter- mined, and although it was too late in the season to think of building before the next spring, preparations were made to lay the foundations of the church and parsonage the same autumn. Mr. Peyton had been struck with the appearance of some church in England, and he concluded to adopt this as the model for the one in Rockford. Fortunately, he was acquainted with an English ar- chitect, in a city not far off, who had seen the original building in our father-land, and he therefore em- ployed him to carry out his designs.   192    FULL PROOF OF THE MINISTRY. "We are very glad that you will soon be able to move out Qf your uncomfortable quarters into a more commodious dwelling," said some of the parishioners, every day, to the young clergyman. "But you will need a help-mate to manage so large an establish- ment." Mr. Mason returned for answer that the affairs of any parish were placed on a much more permanent foot- ing by the erection of a parsonage, and that he could readily find some respectable family to board him for the use of the house; but that until the congregation was able to pay a better salary, he had no hope of changing his condition. I shall not mention, particularly, the style of ar- chitecture employed in the new church; but although I am thus on my guard lest any one should be able to settle to his satisfaction where Rockford is, I trust, most sincerely, that after having told imy simple tale, of what faith, and hope, and labor, by God's help, have already done, there may be many more Rock- fords in the land. The day that the ground was to be marked off for the church, Mr. Peyton took the clergyman around to see the beginning of a work in which both felt .so much interest, and Mr. Mason had the pleasure of throwing out the first spadeful of earth from the foundation. Shortly before the wet and inclement weather of winter set in, everything was ready for laying the corner-stone. The bishop's presence is not indispcn-   "AYING THE CORNER-STONE..    193 sableyupon such an occasion, but as Mr. Mason espe- cially desired it, he put himself to some inconve- nience to come. On a bright and pleasant afternoon, a procession moved from the little chapel toward the site of the new church, consisting of the clergy in their robes, the vestvry, the choir, the children of St. Mary's school, and a large number of the congregation. When it reached the spot, the beautiful service appointed for such occasions was performed, in the course of which a box was deposited in a cav- ity prepared beneath the corner-stone, containing a Bible, a prayer-book, a journal of the last convention of the diocese, and various church papers. The pon- derous stone was then lowered to its place, and the bishop, striking it three times with a hammer, pre- nounced the solemn form commonly used for the pur- pose. The workmen, in their rough attire, stood watching the appropriate ceremonial; and it must have been a satisfaction to them to find that the Church did not forget them in her prayers. "Guard by Thy Providence" (thus the office runs) "everything which may appertain to the building which is now begun in Thy fear, and in dependence on Thy blessing. Excite the skill and animate the industry of the superintendents and workmen. Pro- tect them from accident and from danger. And grant that all who are in any way connected with this tem- ple to be made With hands, may seek those influences 9   194    FULL PROOF OF THE MINISTRY. of Thy Holy Spirit, by which their souls will be made temples holy unto Thee, and prepared for that city of the living God which is eternal in the heavens." And then the whole multitude sang with heart and voice:  "These walls we to Thine honor raise, Long may they echo in Thy praise; And Thou, descending, fill the place With the rich tokens of Thy Grace. "And in the last decisive day, When God the nations shall survey, May it before the world appear, Thousands were born for glory here." Can any one suppose that Mr. Mason regretted, now, that he had come to Rockford, instead of preaching in some old city church, built, and filled with people, long before his birth? The devil, who is always busy with his arts, could not appeal to the same motive which he did, upon the first Sunday noon, of which we have left memorable record, but he tried very diligently, to arouse some feelings of self-gratulation. I am happy, however, to be able to add, that the clergyman put him to in- stant flight, by calling to mind those words of Holy Writ, "Not by might, nor by power, but by my Spirit, saith the Lord." (Zechariah iv. 6.)  "Nei- ther is he that planteth anything, neither he that watereth; but God that giveth the increase." (1 Co- rinthians iii. 7.) At the next meeting of the Sunday-school teachers   SLANDER.        195 after the events just described, Mr. Mason introduced into the prayer used at the opening of their exercises words to this effect, that God's good Providence might be ever kept in mind: " O Lord, bless all those who lBy their benefactions and kind offices have con- tributed toward the prosperity of this church. Re- member them all for good! Put it into the hearts of others also, to be liberal and open-handed, remem- bering the rewards which are promised to the cheer- ful giver. Grant that thy blessing which has been so abundantly bestowed upon this parish, may continue to descend." Just in proportion as the affairs of the church be- gan to prosper, in the same ratio did the strength of opposition increase. Some people spoke of it sneer- ingly, as "Mr. Peyton's church!"-while others, professing to have reached perfection, did not hesi- tate to coin and circulate the bald-faced falsehood, that Mr. Mason had paid five dollars a piece to each poor person who had been confirmed during the two years past! His meager salary would soon have ,been expended at this rate; but those who hope to accomplish any- thing by story-telling, are willing to draw pretty largely upon their imagination. While the enemies of Zion were, thus provoking the displeasure of HIM who has made her foundations strong and immovable, like the everlasting hills, our friend quietly went on to do good. Among others   196    FULL PROOF OF THE MINISTRY. who enjoyed the consolations of the gospel, through his instrumentality, was a dying robber, who for a long time had been paying the penalty of his evil deeds, by confinement in prison. It seemed almost a useless task to attempt to make any impression upon him; but kindness and perseverance finally brought him to acknowledge with repentant tears, his many offences against God and man, and before his death, he was made a member of Christ's body by baptism. Blessed are these latter days of the Church, when, as in earlier times, even the gloominess of the dun- geon is lighted up by the brightness of the Heavenly Truth, shed forth from the golden candlestick which % she has been commissioned to hold.   "OSING A TEACHER.       197 CHAPTER XXXII. A Teacher Lost and a Bride Found.-Inlgratitude.--Well-nigh Starved. - Sad Tale.- Kindness in Troluble.- Another School.- Everybody does something.- Surprise.-Eating Opium.--Picking and Stealing. -Old Comrades.--Good Hopes. ALTHOUGH I have not taken the pains to keep the reader duly informed of these important matters, Mr. Turner had nevertheless ma -everal visits to Rock- ford since the period when  had temporary charge of the parish, and in the March after the occurrences of the last chapter, he came on another errand, viz., to rob our young missionary of one of his most effi- cient co-workers. In other words, Miss Claxton now changed her name to Mrs. Turner. This was indeed a serious loss to Rockford, and yet nobody could really regret that one so admirably fitted to be a cler- gyman's wife, should have found a husband worthy of her. Mr. Mason experienced much difficulty in finding another teacher to supply her place, and even when at last his diligent search proved successful, it was no easy thing to keep matters moving on, as smoothly and prosperously as before. Perhaps one of the greatest causes of discourage-   198   FULL PROOF OF THE MINISTRY. ment to those who are anxious to show kindness to the poor,'" are the instances not unfrequently to be met with, of heartless ingratitude. On a rainy Saturday night, a poor starving crea- ture was led to Mr. Mason's door, but so much ex- hausted by the effort to climb the stairs, that for some minutes he sunk down speechless on a seat which was offered him. The clergyman suspecting the cause of his weakness, immediately sent down to the kitchen for tea and other refreshments, and in- sisted on the young man's taking some food, before he attempted to tell his story; which request was yielded to with grateful looks. Being now considerably revived, the stranger in-. formed Mr. Mason that his name was Percy Douglass, that he left England two years before, and since that time had been engaged for several months as a clerk in a mercantile house in Canada, and more recently in various other employments. One misfortune after another had come upon him, until at last he was obliged to work as a common laborer upon the rail- road; and the Irish who were engaged in the same occupation, did all in their power to add to his wretch- edness. Young Douglass, brightening up as he went on with his story, showed so many marks of good breeding and refinement, that the clergyman felt *greatly interested in his case, and when he conclu- ded the narrative by describing his sufferings during   BENEVOLENCE.       199 two days past from sickness and hunger, Mr. Mason hesitated no longer, but felt that he was in duty bound to do what he could to relieve his wants. After a few moments reflection, he sent for old Mr. Thompson, thinking that he would take an especial interest in the stranger, from the fact that they were both Englishmen. The founder soon arrived, and after listening to the talc, which -Mr. Mason told in as few words as possible, he invited the young man to go and stay at his house until he was sufficiently recovered to engage in business. And so Douglass was borne away, supported by Mr. Thompson and another friendly arm.  In ten days' time he was nearly well, and showed a very becoming restlessness at the thought of being longer idle. As no opening could be found for a clerk, the clergyman gathered for him a little school, which he was amply qualified to teach. Those who heard his story, showed themselves most kind. One of the best physicians in the town attended him through his sickness without charge. When convalescent, wine was recommended, and this a merchant gave, prompt- ed by the same generous spirit. At the opening of the school, others showed themselves quite as consid- erate. One agreed to board the young Englishman at a price, which would by no means recompense the cost and trouble. A jeweller furnished a clock for the school-room. Another individual provided bench- es and desks. Mr. Mason went the new teacher's   -vv   Lrv uruvrr vcr' ln' m1 ElNISTRY. security- at a clothing store for a decent suit. All things promised well. Some children were taken from other schools, for the sake of encouraging the enterprise. One day, after matters had got fairly under way, a brother clergyman who had stopped on a journey to spend a few hours with our friend, was inquiring about the affairs of the parish, and in the course of the conversation, Mr. Mason casually re- marked that he had lately established a boy's school. Now as boy's schools are very common things, and teachers for the same, quite as common, no person could have predicted that the visiting clergyman would ask the choolmaster's name.  But as it hap- pened, he did inquire, and Mr. Mfason told him. "Percy Douglass, did you say?" asked the visiter in evident surprise. "Yes," replied Mr. Mason, " do you know him?" "Very well," said the gentleman, "rather too well perhaps. I hope he will not serve you as he did me." "How was that?" asked lMr. Mason, beginning to be alarmed. "Why, he came to me," continued the other, "in rags and wretchedness, and I rigged him out decent- ly, and got him a clerkship, but something odd about him soon led me to suspect him of being an opium- eater. This I afterward found to be the case. Well, to make a long story short, although I did my best for Douglass, he got intoxicated one day, and having %   HOW TO REFORM.       201 stolen a trifling sum from his employers, took himself off. Since then, I have heard of him in connection with some low circus." Mr. Mason felt very unpleasantly, as may be well- supposed, but even after having heard such a painful account from his friend, he determined still to allow the young man full opportunity to reform. He there- fore sent for him to come to the study, not letting him know, however, who was there. When Douglass entered, and saw in the visiting clergyman a bene- factor whom he had so grievously wronged, he seemed ready to sink through the floor. Mr. Mason, how- ever, immediately rose up, and taking him by the hand, said in his kindest manner, "I have brought ' you here, Mr. Douglass, out of real friendship. This gentleman has told me your whole story, but you may rest assured that neither of us will ever use it to your disadvantage, and I shall do all in my power to ena- ble you to hold an honorable position in society." Thus reassured, the young man made the most solemn promises of amendment, and went back again to his school. Mr. Mason having found out, subsequently, that his relations still lived in England, offered to write to them, giving an account of his present encouraging prospects, and making no reference to the past-- which he did accordingly. Douglass daily improved in health, and by regular- ity at church and attendance to other duties, showed 9'   202    FULL PROOF OF THEI MINISTRY. an anxiety to do right. His equanimity was some- what disturbed one day by the arrival of the circus, with which he had been formerly connected, and a cruel threat which an old comrade made to'expose him, in case he refused to pay a certain sum of money, drove him once more to drink. The clergyman man- aged to save him from disgrace this time also, and having carefully smoothed over the difficulties which seemed almost certain to arise, he most anxiously hoped that all would in the future be well. Soon after this, Mr. Mason received a letter from Doug- lass's brother in England, expressing much thankful- ness on behalf of himself and his aged parents, for the kindness shown to the prodigal son. A way was now opened for the young man to begin a correspon- dence with his friends, of which he very gladly availed himself.-Mr. Douglass's sclhool began to be spoken of as one of the well-established institutions of the town, and he seenled in the highi road to success.   A RELAPSE.        203 CHAPTER XXXIII. Better and better.- One Glass too much. - AMysterious Disappearance. -More Letters.- Encroacllhments of Selfishness.-Somebody grate- ful.-Wise Rules.- Sick Baker.- No Bread in the Oven.--Who brought the Dollar? I SHALL be running before the regular current ofi events in other respects,-but perhaps it will be best for me to finish in this chapter what was begun in the last. After the mortifying circumstance referred to on a former page, the young Englishman was more watch- ful over himself than ever, and our friend began to have sanguine hopes that he might consider him as perfectly reclaimed, and had even advised him to receive the holy communion at the beginning of the next month, a duty and a privilege which he had long neglected. Perhaps the solemnities attending the administration of the Lord's supper might, by God's grace, have so strengthened the impressions for good already made, that lie would have been fully able to withstand the temptations to which he was more espe- cially exposed. But, unfortunately, our national in- dependence day drew Douglass off to a neighboring town, and there he felt, most likely, that no friendly   Z{4    FULL PROOF OF THE MINISTRY. eye was watching him, (he forgot that GOD saw all he did!) and he freely indulged in intoxicating drinks. One excess led to another, until he may have been ashamed to return to Rockford. Be this as it may, he has never shown his face there since. At first, his prolonged absence occasioned much anxiety and surprise, and I do not know that the mystery would ever have been explained, had it not been for infor- mation received from England. A few days after his disappearance, another package of letters came from the young man's relations, directed to Mr. Mason's care. He kept them a reasonable time, hoping that something more encouraging might yet turn up; but, having delayed until the various debts which Douglass had contracted about the town were brought to him to be paid out of his own pocket, he thought it right to tell the whole story. It was a painful task, but none the less a duty. About a month afterward, the following letter was received from England, in reply to his own:-- "REV. AND DEAR SIR: I have delayed answering your very kind but painful letter-not so much with any expectation of giving you tidings of my unhappy brother, as from a sense of my inability to express our sorrow for his shameful ingratitude toward your- self, and his other benefactors at Rockford. His conduct, indeed, sadly justifies your remark, that he seemed not to know what the word gratitude means. Some of his acts even before he left England beto-   A LOVER OF EXCITEMENT.     205 kened this, and it is a most pitiable and melancholy thing to contemplate. Odious as selfishness becomes in its development (for I regard that encroaching vice as the mother of many of his faults), it is far more hateful when combined with intemperance and reck- lessness. It is further displayed in a letter received from him to-day, in which he adverts neither to the manner in which he treated you and his friends, nor to the pain your report (for he takes it for granted you have written) has occasioned to the various mem- bers of his family. Sinpe leaving Rockford, he has been wandering about from place to place, and I fear doing little good. 'I must have excitement,' he writes, 'or I shall lose my mind.'-And, shortly afterward: ' Do not imagine that I suffer nothing ; you can not form an idea of what I undergo, when remembrances of home and kindred force themselves upon me. Reproaches only make me worse, there- fore send me none.' This distressing letter has not yet been communicated to his parents; but it may become necessary hereafter that they should be made acquainted with it. Youar prayers, I am sure, are still offered on behalf of this lost sheep; and I most sincerely trust that he may yet be snatched as a brand from the burning, and brought th a deep and humbling consciousness of his ingratitude, and to a full acknowledgment of his sin. For all your charity toward him-for the sacrifices you have made--and for your kind consideration, accept, Rev. and dear   206    FULL PROOF OF THE MINISTRY. friend, our united and hearty thanks, and believe me, "Faithfully, yours, , yr           FREDERIC DOUGLASS." However mortified and injured Mr. Mason might have felt before, after reading this touching letter, he could not regret that he had tried so hard, and risked so much, in his anxiety to reclaim this unhappy youth; and now his daily prayer goes up to Heaven that the God of mercy and of peace, who is kind to the un- thankful and the evil, may soften the heart of the wayward one, and save him at last from the bitter pains of eternal death. He was afraid, however, lest such a flagrant instance of ingratitude might discour- age his people from being kind to those who were really objects of charity, and he did all that he was able to prevent this evil result. After much expe- rience in such matters, and having convinced himself that he had sometimes given alms unadvisedly, he adopted a few general principles by which he would be governed in future. And first, he determined res- olutely to shut his ears against the piteous complaints of beggars, who travel about with printed certificates describing their escape from shipwreck, or from an irruption of a terrific volcano, or other marvels of the sort. And next, other things being equal, he thought it best to help the poor in his own town and neighborhood, with whose real condition he might be perfectly acquainted. And thirdly, he made up his mind, as a general rule, not to give away money-   RESTITUTION.       207 but if one was hungry, to feed him; if he needed clothing, to provide for his wants in this respect, and so on, -thus making sure that the funds were prop- erly employed. Mr. Mason had been for some time, during the sum- mer, visiting a baker named Austin, who was confined to his bed with the dropsy. The man had been sick so long that his affairs had become involved, and he really suffered, now and then, from want. Although he belonged to a denomination which I need not name, our friend went to see him, as he would one of his own flock, and always did something for supplying the necessities of soul and body. The baker had no family except his wife, and when she went out the poor man was of necessity left alone. On Monday, when the clergyman called upon him, he exclaimed, as soon as Mr. Mason had seated himself by the bed, "O, sir, I had such a strange thing happen to me last Saturday! My wife had gone up in town to carry home some work, and I was tossing restlessly upon my bed, and wondering what we should do for food upon the Sabbath -when I heard a gentle tap at the door; and then the latch was raised, and a hand was thrust through a small crack, while a person said, in a disguised tone of voice, "Mr. Austin, here is a dollar I. will drop on the floor, which lawfully belongs to you.' About a year ago, I took some bread from your wagon while you had gone into a house to leave   208    FULL PROOF OF THE MINISTRY. a loaf, and now I wish to quiet my conscience by paying back your own with usury." "Have you any idea who the person was?" said Mr. Mason. "Not the least," returned the baker.--!"He must have watched until my wife had left the house, and come in the way he did, knowing that. I was confined to the bed." Mr. Mason remembered that a few Sundays before, in a sermon on the eighth commandment, he had spo- ken of the duty of making restitution in cases where we had been guilty of defrauding others. Whether the instance mentioned by the baker had any connec- tion with the advice thus given, can only be known to HIM "unto whom  all hearts are open, and from whom no secrets are hid." i.   COMPETTITON,        209 CHAPTER XXXIV. High Picket Fence.-- Weathercock.- Threats of an Organ.-Punctu- ality.-The Church that is never Shut.-- Cholera.- "Not as good as She might be."-Two Kinds of Influence.--Deep Gloom.--"I have remembered the Church in my Will. I HERE resume Mr. Mason's journal again: "July 16.- Our new church is getting on finely. I watch every brick that goes up with the greatest interest. May the top-stone thereof be brought forth with shoutings, saying, Grace, grace unto it! "It is really amusing to see the efforts which our neighbors are making to keep pace with us. Unfor- tunately for their new-born zeal in the way of church adornment, the places of worship which they occupy were built before the time when much attention began to be paid to architectural proportions, so that they are obliged to be satisfied with rather questionable improvements.  The Methodists   have shown their ambitious spirit by putting up a high picket-fence, with two green gates; the Baptists, more aspiring still, have erected a- needle-shaped spire, covered with tin, looking every bit as well as silver; and the Presbyterians, determined  to climb higher than the best, have set a beautiful brass weather-cock upon   210    FULL PROOF OF THE MINISTRY. the vane, where he serves a very useful purpose in showing the direction of the wind. When noticing the constant changes going on in their system, and the various divisions among them, already fully or- ganized into rival sects, each with a banner and lead- er of its own, I have wondered whether this brazen emblem might by any means be considered as refer- ring to a state of things which St. Paul describes when the bewildered, mind should be ' carried about by every wind of doctrine.' I have even heard of loud threats of buying an organ, on the part of some of Mr. James's people. But this is not at all likely for two reasons; the first is; that some of the most substantial members are opposed to such an innova- tion upon their previous customs; and the second, that a Rbod organ costs money, and it is far easier to say that we intend to do thus and so, than to put the hand in the podket and do it. But besides these two reasons, there is still a third, which may not have oc- curred to them, and that is, that even if all the silly objections to the use of an organ could be overcome, and the price paid down, they have no music suitable for such an instrument. Of course they would not be so inconsistent as to borrow the glorious old chants of the Churchi and to grind off long metres and com- mon metres upon what is designed for Jubilates and Te Deumns, would be tame and insipid enough. "July 20.--It is always my aim to begin service precisely at the hour appointed, and to arrange the a   THE CHURtCH THAT IS NEVER SHUT.  2" length of the Psalms and Hymns, and sermon, so as to close about the same time every Sunday. In this way the people know what they have to depend upon, and they learn to be much more punctual than they otherwise woutd be. Last Sunday a furious thunder- storm came up just at service time; so furious, indeed, that only about a dozen persons turned out. But this made no difference, and everything went on as usual. I do not wish to lose the good name which we have already gained for our little church--one which all churches would find it to their advantage to strive after,-tlhe chutrch that is never shut! "Jlly 26.--I was placed in rather an awkward position this morning. There have been a few cases of cholera in town, and among the rest, a woman of no very good repute has been at the point to die. Learning that she had expressed a wish to see me, I went without hesitation, although I saw some people smiling as I entered the gate, and I also remembered an unkind speech which some Baptist woman made, when I had occasion, several months ago, to attend to a similar call of duty. I am sure, however, that I shall be safe in going to any place where my Savior would have gone under like circumstances, and if an uncharitable world chooses to ridicule and abuse me for it, I have the satisfaction of knowing that it is only treating me as it treated Him, and surely the servant is not greater than his Lord. "August 1.--I have long been convinced that   1    PULL PROOF OP THE MINISTRY. there are two kind of influences which the Church must bring to bear upon the masses with whom she comes in contact, direct and indirect. - The young, and the thousands of every age who are not commit- ted to any particular religious system, and those who have become dissatisfied for any cause with the de- nomination to which they now belong, and those again, who although thus far, directly hostile to the Church, have logical minds, or a fondness for reading, or such refined tastes as may be -impressed by the order and beauty of our services--all of these classes may, by a proper course of training, be brought within the true fold. On the other hand, there are great multitudes of people, who, for years and years have been devout and consistent members of -various reli- gious denominations, and who can no more be made to change the peculiar notions to which they have become so closely wedded, than the Mississippi can be forced to flow up stream. But the views of such persons will be modified and improved by mixing with the members of our church, and becoming accus- tomed to her peculiarities, and every shade of preju- dice which is worn away by this imperceptible friction from their minds, is making the way smoother for their children to return to the old paths. And all good men must heartily rejoice that those, who by no human power can possibly be brought to agree with us, so far as the outward organization of the church is concerned, are daily deriving from the church, that spiritual nourishment which feeds their souls. An   A DEATH BED.        213 old gentleman, who lived and died a Presbyterian, told me, in his last sickness, that he had always used our Prayer Book in his daily dvotions, and that he knew of hothing which could supply the place of this precious treasury of ancient holiness and faith. "August 17.--Deep gloom overspreads our town to-day. A mother in Israel has gone to her rest. Mrs. Peyton, who has been sick for a fortnight past,' expired about three o'clock this afternoon. Alas! alas! how much she will be missed. This morning, sensibl* that her end was near, she had the whole family called together, and partook with them for the last time of the most comfortable sacrament of Christ's body and blood. Her son Augustus, who has been very seriously disposed for some time past, communed with us, much to the satisfaction of his dear, good mother. "' The place was bright With something of celestial light- A simple altar by the bed For high communion meetly spread, Chalice, and plate, and snowy vest. jWe ate and drank; then calmly blest, All mourners, one with dying breath, / We sal. and talked of Jesus' death.' "Just before our dear friend left us, she drew me close to her and said in a low whisper, ' I'have re- membered  the church in my will.' I have nowidea in what way she proposes to befriend the parish, but I am sure she has made a wise disposal of her prop- erty. ' Blessed are the dead who die in the Lord; even so saith the spirit; for they rest from their labors; and their works do follow them.'"   '^:    I FULLh PROOF OF THE MINISTRY. CHAPTER XXXV. Opening the Will.--Just what was wanted.-Crowded Stage.-- Reappearance of Jemmy. - Friends, though not Familiars. - Feet turned back from the Grave. --All Churchmen will be found Fault with. As there is always great curiosity in the world to know about the provisions of the last wills and testa- ments of the deceased, I shall so far gratify this weak- ness of human nature as to state, that Mrs. Peyton left  a handsome legacy to her two granddaughters (who were now to live with their uncle Augustus), and va- rious little tokens of remembrance to her friends. But the part in which, as an historian, I feel the most lively interest, is that where the old lady directed her house and grounds to be given to the church for an orphan asylum, setting aside also, several thousand dollars, the interest of which was to go toward the support of the institution. Mr. Mason's heart leaped for joy when he heard these glad tidings, and he blessed and praised God who had thus provided means for carrying out his favorite and long-cherished plans. I   have so nearly filled up the whole space which I can fairly claim for the purpose of recording my story,   JEMMY BATES.        215 that I must study more brevity in future, and content myself with saying, that within a few months' time, the necessary alterations had been made in Mrs. Peyton's premises, to fit them for the noble purpose to which they were henceforth to be devoted, and that Miss Oli- ver's mother (an energetic, thorough-going woman, who had followed her daughter into the church) was appointed the first matron of the orphan asylum. At the time when this narrative closes, about twenty little ones, left to the cold charities of the world, are enjoying in this excellent institution, the inestimable blessings of a Christian home, where they are trained up, from day to day, for lives of usefulness hereafter. The small and contracted stage to which the read- er's eye has been thus long directed, has become so crowded with characters, of all sorts and conditions, that it is quite impossible for mie to permit them all to have. a fair hearing. There is one, however, who, I am sure, some persons will be glad to recognise again-and this is Jemmy Bates, the lame pedlar. We saw him setting forth manfully upon his first cir- cuit-a mere experiment, as we thought--but it proved successful. The poor boy came back to Rock- ford after three weeks' absence, having sold his little stock of merchandise to good profit, and I hope the tracts which he left at the farmhouses where he stopped maynothelost. Jemmy remained over one Sunday to rest himself and attend church, and then went forth again. This time Mr. Mason gave him some small   216    FULL PROOF OF THE MINISTRY. prayer-books to distribute as he had done the tracts. It may be many long years before any person into whose hands these volumes shall fall will be brought into closer contact with the Chlurch, and during all that period they may never hear one of our ministers preach, and much less see a bishop on his visitation, "confirming the churches," but no one can tell how much good the books will do, by teaching people to pray aright, and by settling their-uncertain faith. Although from some things which have been said, the conclusion might be hastily drawn that all the denominations in Rockford had assumed a hostile' attitude against the church, and that they opposed its growth with inveterate and determined hate, such an inference would be hardly fair. It is very true 'that some of the preachers and prominent men had their own reasons for speaking in disparaging terms of the Episcopal church-calling in question the piety of its members, and accusing Mr. Mason of being a proselyter and a bigot;-but this was all perfectly natural. No one likes to feel that his own peculiar -system is crumbling away beneath him, and that an- other which he has been taught to despise, is gradu- ally securing possession of the field. And yet such must be the conviction of all those from without who watch the unparalleled growth of the Church. But although, as I have said, the leaders among the vari- ous denominations at Rockford turned the cold shoul- der upon our friend, good people of every name gave   PRAYERS FOR THE SICK.     217 him full credit for being a faithful and devoted cler- gyman; and as they saw the wretched and debased gradually reformed-the poor taught to study indus- try and thrift-the orphans provided with a home -and all, without distinction of rank or class, in- structed And encouraged to love and obey God-the acknowledgment was frankly made, "Mr. Mason has done more good than all the ministers who ever lived in Rockford." Some of his best and most esteemed friends be- longed to other folds, and it was often in his power to show them kindness in return. One day, in making his usual round, he met Dr. Gadsby coming out of a house, and, upon inquiry, found that there was a sick 'child within, for whose recovery there was no remain- ing hope. Ready, at all times, to " weep with those that weep" as to rejoice with those whose cup of hap- piness was full, Mr. Mason went" in, and found the household overwhelmed with grief. He begged them not to give way to overmuch sorrow, and reminded them that all things were possible with God, and that no one could tell, whether in answer to believing prayer, the dying might not be restored to health. The mother, who was a Methodist, cheerfully con- sented that the child should be baptized, after which the clergyman most heartily besought our heavenly Father,4at if consistent with his holy will and pleas- ure, the dsire of their hearts might be granted them,. through the merits'of the Divine Redeemer. A few 10   218    FULL PROOF OF THE MINISTRY. days after, when passing that way again, the mother espied Mr. Mason, and called him to give thanks to God for his wonderful goodness in having heard the voice of their supplication. The boy was well, and playing about the yard. Who knows but he may grow up to officiate hereafter in Mr. Mason's place, when his work on earth is. done? I am well aware that many of the scenes in this book may seem overdrawn and unnatural to such as only know the condition of the Church in our cities, and I think it but justice to assure my readers that such is not the case. I am not writing a romance, but a real history. Neither do I think it would be right for the rector of some snug parish in a large town to pronounce a rash judgment upon the wisdom of our friend, Mr. Mason, in some of his views and plans, for the two fields of labor are as unlike as can possibly be conceived. Different classes of churchmen would have the same difficulties to encounter; and good Dr. Milnor, the well-remembered and beloved rector of St. George's church, New York, would find plenty of Mr. Obadiah Bilgers quite as ready to harass and head him, as to show their hatred of the Church, by opposing one of Dr. Pusey's stamp. w \.    1    MENTAL CULTIVATION.      219 CHAPTER XXXVI Books and Reading.- Cultivating Different Sides of the Brain.- "He knows all about Race-Horses!"- Dropping Hints.-New Churchl. - Fresh Falsehoods. - Consecration. I HAVE been so busy in following Mr. Mason about in his daily outdoor work, that I have had little oppor- tunity of saying much about his habits of study, and such other matters as usually form a part of every clerical biography. He had gradually been collecting books-carefully selecting good and useful ones- until he could claim to have quite a valuable library, embracing works in every department of literature; and by rising early, and saving the driblets of time which so many waste, the amount of reading which lie got through with was astonishing. No clergyman can remain long in one parish without pursuing some such course as this. Neither will it answer merely to cultivate one side of his mind. All theology, with- out a due admixture of other kinds of reading, will soon produce a stagnation of the brain, which will be sure to show itself in dry and prosy sermons.  In order to be fresh and vigorous, and able to throw the charm of novelty about old and oft-handled subjects, liistory, and biographly, and travels, and poetry, and   220   ' FULL PROOF OF THE AINISTRY. romance, may be read to advantage. Besides the direct and indirect bearing which every kind of read- ing may be made to have upon his preparation for the pulpit, a clergyman may, constantly have it in his power to turn secular knowledge to the spiritual benefit of his flock. Many a pastor, possessing some acquaintance with medicine, has been able, without trespassing upon the province of the physician, to gain an influence for good over the souls of men, while suggesting some trifling remedy for bodily disease. Bishop Ravenscroft was once riding in a stage- coach through his diocese, with a company of south- ern planters, all strangers to himself, when the con- versation turned upon the subject of race-horses! As the discussion waxed warm, and the passengers took different sides, an old gentleman, one of the cham- pions, appealed to the bishop to sustain the opinions he had expressed, not at all suspecting that he was addressing a successor of the twelve. The bishop happened, at an earlier period in life, to have been thoroughly versed in matters of the sort; and, when thus unexpectedly called upon, he came to the assis- tance of the perplexed controversialist with a hearty good-will. As usual with him, he carried the day. Some time after, the old gentleman discovered who his valuable ally was; and in speaking of him to a friend in the highest terms of admiration, he added, as a climax to his praises, "Why, he knows all about race-horses!" Learning that the bishop was endeav-   BUSY-BODIES BUSY.      221 oring to build a church in some desolate place,.he seDhtn a generous contribution toward the object. j h clergy ought certainly not to mlake themselves so common as to lose influence and breed contempt; but they may accomplish much, very much, by show- ing an interest in the every-day concerns of their peo- ple, and by offering kind and timely suggestions when they can. Now, although Mr. Mason was not much at home upon the subject of race-horses, he had picked up a rich store of practical knowledge, which he turned to good account. Many a dose of medicine has he administered to sick children-many a useful hint has;hle given to the farmers in the neighborhood; and indeed, it would be difficult to find any class in the community which was: not somewhat indebted to him in this way. But a very important event was now drawing on apace-the consecration of the church. Although Mr. Peyton had, with the most liberal spirit, ad- vanced money as fast as necessary, in order that there might be no vexatious delay, still the building of a temple, to the Lord is a great work and requires much time. When the church was nearly finished, the tongues of busy-bodies began to be more active than ever. I am not able to explain why it- is, but I believe that we generally imagine this troublesome class of creatures to be of the feminine gender: in this instance, however, such was not the case. Some,   222    FULL PROOF OF THE MTNISTRY. who would have been horrified not to be thought most respectable and high-toned gentlemen, currently' reported about town that the poor were to be left in the old church, and none but the upper classes were to occupy the new one. Mr. Mason had felt indig- nant enough at stories of the sort which hadt been circulated before; but the design of this cruel false- hood was so apparent, and its. effect upon the minds of the poor so bad, that it required all the patience he could summon to keep him from expressing what lie thought, in the plainest Saxon. But he hoped and prayed that the deceitful lips and lying tongues might yet be put to silence: which was indeed the' case, when the new church was at last completed, and the door thrown wide open-a house of prayer free to all people. The spacious courts of the temple were crowded on the morning of the consecration, and the imposing ceremony was opened by the bishop, whose voice was heard from the church entrance, reciting the opening verse of the twenty-fourth Psalm: "The earth is the Lord's, and all that therein is; the compass of the world, and they that dwell therein."  A procession of clergymen headed by the bishop, and attended by the wardens and vestrymen, passed slowly along the broad aisle up to the chancel, repeating alternately the remaining verses of the psalm. The clergy then took their places within the rails; a deed was read conveying the building and its appropriate furniture,   CONSECRATION.        223 in  perpetuity, to the congregation of the Protestant Episcopal Church. and the beautiful services appointed for such occasions proceeded, and were concluded by a sermon from the bishop, in the course of which he gave an interesting narrative of the early struggles of the Church in Rockford. It would not be easy to overrate the value of such a munificent gift to the community, as this beautiful temple must prove to be; and many a grateful heart was lifted up in prayer that the generous donor might live long upon the earth, in happiness and peace, and find everlasting blessedness in the world to come. Amid the sordid turmoil and feverish struggles of life, here at least was one spot whence evil passions, and the demon of party strife, and the worship of mammon, are for ever excluded; a home to which the weary in spirit may repair, to drink in its sooFh- ing and solemn influences, and to bathe the soul in its holy calm; an edifice devoted to the relief of maln's spiritual wants; a small space wrested from the world, and for ever set apart and consecrated to the worship of the Most High; a temple from which hymns of praise and thanksgiving will perennially ascend, as the revolving seasons bring round the returning cycle of the time-honored fasts and festi- vals of the Church. "Hark! what a thrilling utterance is there! ' Lift up your heads, ye everlasting Rates!' As God's high-priest, with apostolic care, To HIM this tent of glory consecrates.   Come in, thou Kins, of Glory! -Yea, come in; Rest here awhile, great Conqueror for good: Bless thou this font to cleanse from Adam's sin; Spread thou this table with celestial food; And, kindled by thy grace to gratitude, May thousands here eternal treasures win, As, hither led fi'om tinme to time, with ,oy They seek their Father. Lo, before mine eyes Visions and promises of good arise: The tender babe baptized; the stripling boy Confirm'd for godliness; the maid and youth Wedded in love; the man mature made wise; The elder taught in righteousness and truth; And each an heir of life before lhe dies." ,   IMR. GREENFIELD.      225 CHAPTER XXXVII. Mr. Greenficld. --Coming lile Nicoddemus.-Pelrplexity. --Playing Bishop - Charles Wesley's Sarcasm. - Turnling a Opld Shoulder.- A Common Case.- Parsonage Filled. -Right about tace.--No Lack. SMR. GREENFIELD, sir!" said a servant, ushering the Methodist preacher into Mr. Mason's study, one dark, December night. ' You see I come like Nicodemus of old!" remarked the visiter, putting down a bundle of books upon the table. "I am always happy to see you," returned the clergyman, " whether you come by day or by night." I ought to interrupt the conversatiol long enough to explain, that Mr. Greenfield was a great favorite with his own people at Rockford-so much so, in- deed, that having lived among them two years-the longest period which the rules allowed-lhe had re- moved at the end of that time to another station, but now, in answer to a strong petition sent' in to the last conference, he had been permitted to return. Mr. Mason, who had always been on tolerable friendly terms with him, became more intimate during this second period of his sojourn in Rockford, and had been trying to be of some service to the good man, by lending him books which might perchance open his eyes somewhat. 10*   226    FULL PROOF OF THE MINISTRY. "This is a very spicy little affair," said Mr. Green- field, holding up a plain, unpromising-looking tract, printed on black paper, and entitled, "METHODISM AS HELD BY WESLEY." "Indeed it is," answered the clergyman. "And what renders the course of argument more convincing is, that all the authorities quoted in the pamphlet are Methodist. With Wesley as a witness, it is proved beyond a doubt, that even in his own estimatior, Methodism is n6t a church, and has neither a valid ministry or sacraments." "Chapman's Sermons, in addition to this," contin- ued Mr. Greenfield, 1' have quite driven me from my old anchorage, and I am really puzzled to know what to do. In reading one of our papers the other day, I noticed the appointment of several new bishops, as we have learned to call them; and really, with the light which your boolks have given me, I think the men who accept this empty honor might with as much propriety proclaim themselves as emperors of France or Russia, as to profess to hold this lofty dignity in God's kingdom, without the shadow of a lawful claim." This was no hasty conclusion to which Mr. Green- field had been blindly led, for he had devoted several months to a fair investigation of the subject, and, if the truth must be told, he had been most anxious to satisfy himself that John Wesley, the priest, had full powers to ordain the higher order of bishops! But again and again, when he had begun to flatter   TREATMENT OF CONVERTS.     227 himself that he had patched up a theory which would satisfy his bewildered mind, he bethought him of the sarcastic but truthful lines of John Wesley's own brother Charles-himself a Methodist too--in the way in which Methodism was then understood, not as a society distinct from the church, but an organiza- tion within it:- "So easily are bishops made, By man or woman's whim; Wesley his hands on Ooke hath laid, But who laid hands on him?" Mr. Mason deeply sympathized with his Methodist friend in his perplexity, and promised to do all he could to help him. And here permit me to say, that the coolness and reserve which the majority of churchmen manifest toward those who are more than half persuaded to come over to our ranks, is one great reason why we do not increase much more rapidly than at present. Take the case of Mr. Greenfield-a preacher in good standing with the Methodists, and receiving for his services a decent support. He is convinced that ours is the true Church of Christ; and desires, with all his heart, to have a valid commission to do the work for which he is every way well qualified. A year must pass before he can receive ordination. During that time his Methodist friends will forsake him, and Episcopalians might not be ready to come forward to welcome him. There is no doubt that the dread of being placed in a position so mortifying and   228    FULL PROOF OF THE MINISTRY. painful, causes multitudes to shut their eyes to the truth, and continue their connection with systems which they know to be without any solid foundation. You may say, "They ought to trust to Providence," and other very common expressions of the sort; but I insist that it is our duty to show a. disposition to re- ceive them with open arms, and to provide means to meet such cases as I have described. Some of the noblest and most devoted men now living upon the earth are Methodists, and if our good mother the Church of England had thought a little less of her dignity and a littte more of the true principles of the gospel, she would have made bishops of Wesley and Whitfield, who would have done honor to the mitre, and then there would have been no Methodists wan- dering away from the ancient fold, and none of this slow and painful process of finding the way back to their home. Mr. Mason, after consulting with the vestry, went to Mr. Greenfield and proposed that he should remove at once to the new parsonage with his family, and that he himself would board with them. The offer was thankfully accepted; and by teaching a few pu- pils, the late methodist preacher was able to meet the expenses of his household, besides having ample time for study. This unlooked-for change made another great sensation in Rockford; but although many hard things were said, nobody was killed; and the sun rose, and the stages and cars arrived at the usual hours.   AN EXAMPLE FOLLOWED.      229 The bishop licensed Mr. Greenfield as a lay-reader at the same time that he was received as a candidate for holy orders, by which arrangement he was ena- bled to render considerable service at some of the outposts, which had begun to multiply upon Mr. Ma- son's hands. It did one's soul good to hear Mr. Greenfield's hearty responses in the church on Sundays; and very likely some of his old congregation-came to see how he would look, sitting in his pew and countenancing those things which they regarded as sadly wrong, but in which he now preferred to worship the God of his fathers. But others followed him from a different motive. They reasoned very justly, that if so sensible and good a man as their late preacher gave up from conscientious motives his comfortable position with them, and hum- bly confessed before all the world that he had been living in error, and had been trying to do what he had no authority to attempt, and condescended to keep boarders and teach until the time of probation should pass, when he could lawfully go forth to preach and administer the sacraments -they reasoned, I say, very justly, that when one did all this, he must act upon principle, and it was worth their while to in- quire with diligence whether or not he might not be right. The consequence was, that the truth spread more and more, and many began to ask for " the old paths," and to walk therein.   230    FULL PROOF OF THE MINISTRY. CHAPTER XXXVIII. Brudder Jeff.--Dark Night.--Turkey which clapped his Arms.- Call to Preach.--"What must be done?"--Good Thought. - Poor Hymns.--"Who can shout loudest?" -Waning Glory. "WHCH way is you been, Brudder Jeff?" "O I's been to hold a converse with Brudder Jim, about what I was talking of tudder day." "You means de preachin'?" "Yes, and I has .finally made up my consideration to do it any how-I don't keer who conjects.- I do b'leeve seriously, and satisfactorly, that I is been called by the Sperrit to dis work. Brudder Toney, jest as sure as I is standin' here, de tudder night, when all was dark and still, and when de night was so black dat de chickens was 'fraid to crow, and not even de watchman stirred on de street, I was gwine a little bit out of town. Jest as I got dar where dat big elum-tree is by de road whar de man was hung, for killin' tudder white man in his own door, 'pon my soul, Brudder Toney, o0 de top of dat big tree dar sot something what looked like a whappin' turkey. Well, when I got by dat big tree, 'pon my life, de thing hit his arms togedder and hollered out loud to V to me. Den I thought it was a sperrit, sure; and I   BRUDDER JEFF.       231 took off my hat, and bowed, and said 'Here I is W! And den I thought, maybe it's not a sperrit, or it may be a, bad spirit; and I tuck to my clippers, and away I went. In de mornin', I found myself safe in my bed, all 'cept'a mighty shiverin' in my j'ints. Now, I does think I is called to preach, don't you say so, Brudder Toney?" "Brudder Jeff, I does actially think so. Is you gwine to preach next Sunday?" "To be sure I is, and I is got my tex pickt out now. It's in de second Epistle of de Apostle Isaiah, where he says, 'You may polish de plant, and you may polish de water, but God gives de increase.'  Such was the conversation which Mr. Mason acci- dentally overheard one day, shortly before removing from the Eagle hotel to the parsonage. His room opened upon a balcony, and two of the servants about the house, who were lounging there in- the sunshine at their leisure, were the speakers in the dialogue given above. "Poor creatures!" soliloquized the clergyman, amused at the strange conceits exhibited in this dis- course, and, at the same time, distressed to discover the gross ignorance in -which these immortal beings were living in a Christian land-" can the Church do nothing for you?" He afterward talked over the whole subject with Mr. Greenfield and others, and then resolved to make the attempt. There can be no doubt that, so far as   232   FULL PROOF OF THE MINISTRY. his soul's health is concerned, the ability to read is very often anything but a blessing to the negro. It at once makes him conceited and headstrong, and nothing will do, but he must put his own interpreta- tion upon every passage of Scripture, and nobody upon earth is wise enough to instruct him. In proposing, therefore, to hold a-)service for the colored people on Friday nights, Mr. Mason recom- mended that all who chose to attend should be taught to say the Lord's Prayer, and the Creed, and one or two selections of Psalms by heart; that in this way they might be able to unite in the form of public wor- ship which he wished to use. Novelties are almost sure to please, and the whole colored population in and around Rockford began to talk of little else be- sides the meetings which were to be held for them in the white people's church. Had Mr. Mason been one of those very rubrical men who would think it quite as wrong to deviate a hair's-breadth from any little nice point of canon-law among the Blackfeet Indians as in Trinity church in New York, or St. Paul's in London, I can answer for it, that one or two services would have satisfied the negroes to their heart's content. But, following his usual plan of being guided by common-sense, he only used a part of the service, and gave out a hymn which everybody knew, and then preached a sermon, very much as he would have done to his white congrega- tion. If the colored people discover that you are   NEGRO PREACHNG,      233 talking to them as to a parcel of children, they go away in high dudgeon. Some writers in our church-papers find consider- able satisfaction in criticising the llymns in the prayer- book, and in proving that some of them are not only bad specimens of poetry, but also of theology. They may be perfectly right in both of these respects; but the highest order of poetry is not absolutely essential for the purpose of lifting the heart in praise, and I have too much confidence in the committee appointed by the General Convention to revise the hymns,to believe that any very dangerous doctrines are taught therein. I make this remark, because the very hymns to which most exceptions are taken, are those with which the servants at the South are familiar, and it prepares their minds to receive the teachings of the Church with more readiness when they hear us give out their old favorite hymns from our books. Mr. Mason labored under one disadvantage in Rockford, and this a very serious one. The negroes, instead of being taken to church with their masters, had been allowed to have meeting-houses, where those of their own color who could shout and sing the loud- est, and who had the greatest power of continuance in exhortations and sermons, were ehosen to fill the. pulpit. It was upon such a throne of glory for a vain and conceited man that Brother Jeff, who appears at the head of this chapter, proposed to make a display of his marvellous gifts. The effect of all this is pre- f   234    FULL PROOF OF THE MINISTRY. cisely what might be expected. The black preachers take great delight in such notoriety, and the people enjoy the noise and excitement hugely. It therefore requires much tact to interest them in a service conducted upon such different principles, and where the powerful voice of Brother Jeff must be subdued to a moderate pitch. The first Friday night on which Mr. Mason preached to the colored people, the church was crowded, and, by having a few white persons to lead in the responses, everything passed off very well. Only one lesson was read, aud some other slight changes made, which necessity required. The servants were highly de- lighted, and nothing occurred to disturb the smooth surface of the waters, until about three weeks after, when Brother Jeff and Brother Pompey (who had both been called to preach, in some such marvellous way as that spoken of in the beginning of the chap- ter), thinking, perhaps, that their glory was on the wane, ceased to attend at the church, and resumed their nightly howlings in their own meeting-house. Mr. Mason had anticipated discouragements of this sort; so that, instead of losing heart, he kept on without seeming to notice such things;-and in the course of time a great many colored children were baptized, quite a number of meA and women con- firmed, and a decided attachment for the church sprang up among the descendants of Ham.   CHLDREN ON SUNDAY.      235 CHAPTER XXXIX. Communion Service.-Wearying Children.- Book-Keepers.- Proph- ecy Fulfilled.-Weak Arguments.- Long Sermons.-Church Sleep- ers.--Running away from the Text.--Signing Testimonials.--Wed- ding.--Lawyers make good Clergymen. ANOTHER instalment of Mr. Mason's journal:- "Sunday, July 5.--This being communion day, we began our new arrangement of dividing the ser- vice; having morning prayer in the Sunday school at nine o'clock, and at eleven, the litany, anti-commu- nion, sermon, and Lord's Supper. I had no idea, until we tried it, what an improvement this is upon the old, exhausting system, of crowding three distinct services into one. "Several parents have asked my opinion as to the expediency and propriety of obliging children to re- main in church during the administration of the com- munion. As a general rule, I am opposed to such a requisition. It is better to leave it to their own choice whether they will remain or not. When kept in so long against their will, even this most sublime service appears irksome. Mrs. Chambers has also been troubled to know how much strictness should be used in the observance of Sunday. I am well con-   236    FULL PROOF OF THE MINISTRY. vinced that a great rigidness in keeping children in the house the live-long day, and casting an unneces- sary gloom over the brightness of this festival, is a sure way of training up worldly, thoughtless daugh- ters, and godless, skeptical sons. "J ly 6.-Several of the shelves in my library be- gin to look quite deserted; the occupants have been so. long absent. I can honestly adopt Sir Walter Scott's witticism, and say of some of the members of my flock, as he did of, some of his friends, that, 'Although they are bad arithmeticians, they are ex- cellent book-keepers!' "I often lend Chapman's Sermons, and the Double Witness of the Church, and other works of the sort, not much caring whether they come back to me or not, provided they be kept in active circulation; but then again, there are other books which one would much prefer to have returned. I am reading good Bishop Chase's Reminiscences. No one can go through with these two volumes without pleasure and profit. "July 10.--I begin to think that I have some small prophetical powers, for George Patterson is to be married to Grace Forester, as I suggested might be the case long ago. She is a charming girl, and would make anybody a good wife.  George's mother is ex- pected next week, and the ceremony has been has- tened somewhat on Captain Forester's account, who must soon leave us again on a long cruise.   "ONG SERMONS.       237 "July 11.--Mr. Greenfield met with some difficul- ties to-day in his studies, which I have been trying to clear up for him. The points were in regard to infant baptism and immersion. Not that he had any doubts in his own mind that the position held by the Church on these subjects is the true one, but the weak reason- ing in some of our commentaries bewildered him a little.' A poor argument is worse than none. Why should we press into the controversy about infant baptism the -statement in Acts xvi. 33, where it is said, that the jailor and his household were baptized, inferring from this, that children as well as adults then received this sacrament! Such may have been the case, but a keen Baptist would immediately refer you to the very next verse, and read that the jailor 'believed in God with all his house,' and insist that if they exercised faith, they could not have been in- fonts! We have plenty of good arguments, and I wish most sincerely that our authors would content themselves with these. "I now and then have a pleasant dispute with Mr. Greenfield about the proper length of sermons. He still holds fast to his old Methodist notions in regard to this thing, and prefers a liberal allowance of preach- ing. My own opinion, however, remains unshaken; and indeed, I have no sort of doubt, that one most serious drawhack to the popularity, and of necessity, to the growth and prosperity of the Church, is the too common practice of preaching long sermons. It   238    FULL PROOF OF THE MINISTRY. is not worth while for men to argue, as some stick- lers for ola customs are wont to do, that in former days people listened patiently for one or two hours to discourses from the pulpit. They will not do it now. Brevity is the order of the day. A clergyman with us (as I insist with Mr. Greenfield), can adopt no surer plan for emptying out his church, than to weary the congregation with long sermons. He may possess the eloquence of Cicero and Demosthenes, and the wisdom of Solomon and Solon, but the effect will be the same. It costs more trouble to write short sermons, until habits of condensation have been formed, but a minister who wishes to be useful will not complain of this. Sermons of twenty minutes seem about the happy medium between long and short. No person will ever complain of being weary. The lessons thus pithily expressed will be much more likely to be remembered. There are special occa- sions, indeed, when, after the example of St. Paul (Acts xx. 9),' long preaching' may be indulged in. If such occasions, however, be suffered too often to arise, ' deep sleep' will fall upon more than one, who, with a shorter sermon, would have gone away edified. I remember two lethargic old gentlemen in one of the city congregations who so regularly composed them- selves during the sermon for an hour's nap, that they went by the architectural name of' the Church Sleep- ers!' The most admired models of modern English sermons are short, well-digested, and easily delivered   PREACHNG FROM A TEXT.     239 in twenty ninutes. Of course, to be able to speak to the purpose in so limited a space, long, rambling in- troductions must be left off; and the preacher will be obliged to begin with his subject and stop at the end. I reminded Mr. Greenfield of the Methodist exhorter, who, having announced his text, and declared his in- tention tot' preach from it,' kept his promise to the letter, by never coming back to it again! Sermons prepared in haste, and without careful weeding and pruning, will be apt to run off in the same direction. "July 13.-Had the pleasure of making out the required testimonials to-day, recommending Robert Smith as a candidate for holy orders. How many promising youths are lost to us, so far as the ministry is concerned, who require nothing but advice and en- couragement from the clergy, to induce them to put on the armor and help us in the fight. Mr. Smith is much gratified at his son's choice of a profession. Robert is to pursue his theological studies with me. Besides being less expensive than going to the semi- nary, he will have this advantage, that of learning something about parochial duty, by accompanying me in my walks. "July 15.-To-day Grace Forester has changed her name to Patterson--not quite so romantic and poetical to be sure, but the name of a good and true man, and one who will do well in the world. I wish that George could be persuaded to follow Robert Smith's example.-Any one acquainted with the his-   240    FUTLL PROOF OF THE MINISTRY. tory of those whose names stand upon our list of clergy, must have remarked, how many who have proved themselves most useful to the Church, were, originally, trained for the bar. While there is no necessary connection between law and divinity, it can not be questioned that the habits of mind which a thorough lawyer will be apt to form, fit him in several important particulars for a successful discharge of clerical duties. i           f   SICKNESS.        241 CHAPTER XL Sickly August. -Angel of Death. - From House to House.- An Old Friend Sick. White Hat on the Bedpost. --Shadow. --More mournful still. -Clouds and Darkness. -Asleep in Jesus. THE month of August proved to be one of the hot- test and most sickly ever known in Rockford, and many persons were dangerously ill, and many were borne to their last resting-place. But the epidemic was not confined to the town. The country people, who so often congratulate themselves upon their pure air, and cool shade, and wholesome water, had their full share of trouble. Mr. Mason was almost worn out by his unceasing attentions to the sick, and in spite of the scorching sun, he might be seen, at all hours of the day, going from house to house, about the town, or hastening, on horseback, to visit some distant parishioner, to whose bedside he had been suddenly summoned. Rockford- lost its usual air of cheerfulness, and deep gloom sat upon the countenances of all. Still, while worldly business was much interrupted, and amusements were forgotten, the church-going bell continued, with its accustomed regularity, to summon the people to God's house for worship. "   242    FULL PROOF OF THE MINISTRY. Among those in the country who were sorely tried, was Mr. Ford's family. Several of the servants died, and then Mrs. Ford herself, being worn out with nursing, took to her bed. The clergyman went to see her as soon as he heard the afflictive tidings, and while there, was told of the dangerous illness of an- other old friend of ours-the Rev. Obadiah Bilger. So, having found Mrs. Ford convalescent, he turned his horse's head toward the Seventh-day Baptist preacher's farm, which was about two miles off. Several large dogs set up a terrific barking as the clergyman approached the house, and it was not until a colored woman emerged from the kitchen and com- manded them to be silent, that he ventured to dis- mount. Mr. Mason was shown the way to the sick-room without ceremony, and Mr. Bilger looked somewhat astonished when he discovered who his visiter was. "Why, Mr. Mason, is it possible that this is you?" said he, holding out his trembling hand as he spoke. "Well, this is kind, I declare." Finding him very weak and exhausted, the clergy- man begged that he would not exert himself to talk, and after repeating a hymn, and offering a prayer in his behalf, lie took his leave. As Mr. Mason went out, he noticed the old white hat hanging on the bedpost-a hat which the owner had so often worn-and the homespun clothes which were equally familiar to everybody in the neighbor-   A VALUABLE LIFE IN DANGER.    243 hood, thrown carelessly across a chair; and again and again, on his way to town, he found himself in- volutarily repeating aloud the .verse of the hymn:- "We lay our garments by, Upon our beds to rest; So death shall soon disrobe us all Of what is here possessed." Perhaps there was nothing very remarkable in this -but the merest trifles assume an importance in our eyes, which they would not otherwise possess, when they have linked themselves on to circumstances either joyous or grievous. On the morning after this visit to the country, the mournful announcement spread through Rockford that Mr. Mason was dangerously sick. People are so accustomed to see the clergyman at' all times attending to his business, that they look upon his life as a charmed one, and seldom imagine that any evil will happen to him, no matter how many may be struck down by disease on the right hand and on the left. Mr. Mason's sickness was no idle rumor. The symptoms from the first were of the most dangerous kind, and by the middle of the afternoon his life was despaired of. He had a presentiment that he would not recover, and the few intervals of ease between paroxysms of pain, he spent in giving directions about the affairs of the church, and in secret prayer. Every attention which affection could prompt was   244    FULL PROOF OF THE MINISTRY. freely bestowed, and some would almost have given their own lives, if the clergyman could be spared. The ways of God are mysterious: but we have this consolation, that HE doeth all things well. Toward night, Mr. Mason dropped into a gentle slumber, and those who watched by the bedside, anxiously hoped that he might awake refreshed. But he spoke no more. No one knew when the spirit took its de- parture; but when the physician came in and felt the pulse, it had ceased to beat. In one off his conventional addresses, in which a record is made of some faithful laborers who had entered into their rest, the bishop of Kentucky beau- tifully remarks:-- "What is one life, compared with the perpetuity of the Church? Silently and slowly the walls of that temple of God upon earth are rising from darkness and dust. The mark which any one workman leaves behind, is as if his hand and his blow had never been there. Even the more vast additions made by some master-builder are lost in the magnificent proportions of the whole. Yet every stone is in its place. Not a stroke is lost. Not a workman could be spared. The infinitesimal point upon which the humblest la- borer spent his hour and died, was destined to that finish. And, at last, this temple of God shall stand, with foundations, strong as his throne, and broad as the compass of the earth; with towers and turrets   THE END.        245 reaching to the skies, and reflecting back the glories of heaven!" Upon the right hand of the altar in the church at Rockford, may now be seen a neat marble slab with this inscription:-- sacreb to toe Xcntorg of THE REV. EDWARD MASON, FOR TEN YEARS THE FAITHFUL MNISTER OF THS CHURCH. (' He being dead yet speaketh." How eloquent are the dead! Often and often, there comes from the pastor in the grave a more per- suasive and melting voice than from the pastor stand- ing in the pulpit. His spirit, the fragrant memory of his life, lingers with his flock. Thus has it been with him, who during the short period allotted him for labor in the vineyard, made "full proof of the ministry.' THE END.     NEW, POPULAR, AND STANDARD WORKS PUBLISHED BY J. S. REDFIELD, "O AND 112 NASSAU STREET, NEW-YORK. POETRY. THE WORKS   OF SHAKESPEARE-reprinted from the newly-discovered copy folio of 1632, in the possession of J. Payne Collier, 1 vol. imperial 8vo, cloth, THE WORKS OF SHAKESPEARE. Same as the above, 8 vols. 16mo, cloth,... NOTES AND EMENDATIONS to the text of Shakespeare's Plays, from the Early I script Corrections in a copy of the Folio of 1632, in the possession of John I Collier, Esq., F S.A. 1 vol. 12mo, new edition, ............................... THE POETICAL WORKS OF FITZ-GREENE HALLECK.         Only complete e( 1 vol. 12mo, cloth,. ................................................... SIMMS' POEMS.   Poems-Descriptive, Dramatic, Legendary, and Contempl By William Gilmore Simms. With a Portrait on steel. 2 vols. 12mto, cloth,.. THE POETICAL WORKS OF W. H. HO. HOSMER. Now first collected. With a trait on steel.  2 vols. 12mo, ...... .......... .............................. POETICAL WORKS    OF WINTHROP MACKWORTH     PRAED.  1 vol. 12mo, second edition, enlarged, ................................................... THE LAYS OF THE SCOTTISH CAVALIERS.      By William E. Aytoun, Editor of I wood's Magazine, etc., 1 vol. 12mo,......................................... FIRMLIAN, THE STUDENT OF BADAJOZ; A       "L Spasmodic"Tragedy. I Percy Jones, (Professor Aytoun.) 12mo, cloth,............................. THE BOOK OF BALLADS.    Edited by Bon Gaultier. 1 vol. 12mo, cloth,....... "YRA, AND OTHER POEMS.    By Alice Carey. 1 vol. 12mo, cloth,............ HISTORY, BIOGRAPHY, &c. ANCIENT EGYT UNDER THE PHARAOHS.       By John Kenrick, M A. 2 vols.: plates, second edition, ..................................................... HISTORY OF THE CRUSADES. By Joseph Frangois Michaud.      Translated b Robson. 8 vols. 12mo, maps, ........................................... THE HISTORY OF THE WAR IN THE PENINSULA. By W. F. P. Napier. cloth, eighth edition,..      ................................... ................. HISTORY OF LOUISIANA. FRENCH DOMNATION.    By Charles Gayarr6, Esq. 2 8vo, cloth,........................... .................................... HISTORY OF LOUISIANA. SPANISH    DOMNATION. By Charles Gayarr6, Esq. : 8vo, cloth, ................................................................ "AS CASAS' NAPOLEON. Memoirs of the Life, Exile, and Conversations of the peror Napoleon. By the Count Las Casas. With Portraits on steel, woodcuts 4 vols. 12mo, cloth, ..................................................... ...  NAPOLEON IN EXILE; or, A VOICE FROM ST. HELENA. By Barry E. O'Meara late Surgeon. 2 vols. 12mo, cloth, second edition, .......................... JOMNI'S WATERLOO.   The Political and Military History of the CampBig Waterloo. From  the French of General Baron Jomini. By Lieut. Benet, U Map. 12mo, cloth,. ...................................................... THE RUSSO-TURIKISH CAMPAIGNS OF 1828 AND 1829: with a View of the prm State of Affairs in the East. By Col. Chesney, R A., D C.L. 12mo, cloth, map DISCOVERY AND EXPLORATION OF THE MSSISSIPPI VALLEY. By John mary Shea. With a fac-simile of the newly-discovered Map of Marquette. 1 8vo, cloth, antique second edition, .... ......... ................ .  ..      REGAL ROME; an Introduction to Roman History. By Francis W. Newman. 1 vol. 12mo, cloth,    ......................   ............................................. $0  63 MEN OF THE TIME; or, Sketches of Living Notables. 1 vol. 12mo, cloth, .......... 1 50 YOU HAVE HEARD OF THEM; being Sketches of Distinguished Artists, Composers, Actors, Singers,. &c. By Q. With Portraits on steel of Horace Vernet and Julia Grisi. 12mo, cloth,....................... ......    ..........       1 00 "ADIES OF THE COVENANT. Memoirs of distinguished Scottish Females, embrac- ing the period of the Covenant and Persecution. By Rev. James Anderson. 1 vol. 12mo, cloth, second edition, .................................................... 1 25 blEMOIRS OF A DISTINGUISHED FINANCIER.-VINCENT NOLTE'S FIFTY YEARS IN BOTH HEMSPHERES; or, Reminiscences of a Merchant's Life. 1 vol. 12mo, clo th , .......................................................................... 1  25 MEN AND WOMEN OF THE EIGHTEENTH CENTURY.          By Arsene Houssaye. 2 vols. 12mo, on extra superfine paper, 450 pages each, cloth, second edition,.... 2 50 PHLOSOPHERS AND ACTRESSES. By Arsene Houssaye, author of "Men and Women of the Eighteenth Century."  2 vols. 12mo, cloth, second edition,......... 2 50  SKETCHES OF THE IRISH BAR. By the Right Hon. Richard Lalor Shell, M P. With a Memoir and Notes by Dr. R. Shelton Mackenzie. 2 vols. 12mo, cloth, por- trait and  autograph  letter, ................... ................................ 2 00 BARRINGTON'S SKETCHES. Personal Sketches and Memoirs of his own Time. By Sir Jonah Barrington. With Illustrations by Darley, ..............  ................ 1 25 MOORE'S LIFE OF SHERIDAN. Memoirs of the Life of the Right Hon. Richard Brins- ley Sheridan. By Thomas Moore. 2 vols. 12mo, cloth,      ............... 2 00 "ORENZO BENONI; or, Passages in the Life of an Italian. Edited by a Friend. 12mo, cloth,....................................              .. 1 00 TIIE WORKING-MAN'S WAY IN THE WORLD; being the Autobiography of a Jou/r- neyman Printer. 12mo, cloth, .........   .............................. 1 00 CLASSIC AND HSTORIC PORTRAITS. By James Bruce. 12mo, cloth, ............ 1 00 NARRATIVES OF SORCERY AND MAGIO. From the most authentic sources. By Thomas Wright, M A., F S.A., &c. 1 vol. 12mo, cloth, ...........................  1 25 ART AND INDUSTRY, as represented in the Exhibition at the Crystal Palace, New- York, 185854. Revised and edited by Horace Greeleyt 12mo, paper covers, 50 cents; cloth, fine paper, ...................................................... 1 00 MNNESOTA AND ITS RESOURCES. By J. Wesley Bond. With a new Map of the Territory, a View of St. Paul's, and one of the Falls of St. Anthony. 1 vol. 12mo, cloth, 1 00 THE GRAFTED BUD; a Memoir of Angelica Irene Hawes. By Mrs. A. H. Hawes. i   1 vol. 16mo, cloth, portrait, ..................................................... O 88 VOYAGES AND TRAVELS. A TENNESSEAN ABROAD; or, Letters from Europe, Africa, and Asia. By Randal W. MacGavock. 12mo, cloth, .................................................. 1 00 THE RUSSIAN SHORES OF THE BLACK SEA. By Laurence Oliphant. Fourth edi- tion, 12mo, cloth,.............................................................. O 75 A YEAR WITH THE TURKS; or, Sketches of Travel in the European and Asiatic r Dominions of the Sultan. By Warington W. Smyth. With a colored Ethnological Map of the Turkish Empire. Third edition, 12mo, cloth,.......................... O 75 NARRATIVE OF A VOYAGE TO THE NORTH-WEST COAST OF AMERICA, in the years 1811,'12, '18 and '14; or the First Settlement on the Pacific. By Gabriel Fran- chore. Translated and edited by J. V. Huntington. 12mo, cloth, plates,..........  1 00 ;,  A MONTH IN ENGLAND. By Henry T. Tuckerman. Second edition, 12mo, cloth,. O 75 "FE IN THE MSSION, THE CAMP, AND\sTHE ZENANA; or, Six Years in India. By Mrs. Colin Mackenzie. 2 ols.12mo, cloth,..............................    2 00 WHiTir, RED AND BLACK; Sketches of American Society during the Visit of their Guests. By Francis and Theresa Pulszky. 2 vols. 12mo, cloth,................... 2 00 THE BLACIKWATER CHRONICLE; a Narrative of an Expedition into the Land of Canaan, in Randolph County, Virginia. By "The Clerke of Oxenforde." With nu- merous Illustrationg by Strother. 12mo, cloth,   ................................. 1 00   BETIT r.S-L.'lTlR'   ES. CHRISTOPHER NORTH'S GREAT WORK. THE NOCTES AMBROSIANIE. By Pro- fessor Wilson, J. G. Lockhart, James Hogg, and Dr. Maginn. Edited, with Memoirs and Notes, by Dr. R. Shelton Mackenzie. In 5 vols .............................. ......$5 00 TIIE WORKS OF EDGAR ALLAN POE. 3 vols. 12mo, cloth, portrait on steel, ..... 3 50 Simn  s' Revolutionary    Tales. Uniforme Series, wcith Illustrations by Darley. THE PARTISAN; a Romance of the Revolution. 12mo, cloth,............ ...      1 25 MELLICHAMPE; a Legend of the Santee. 12mo, cloth, .......................... 1 25 KATHARINE WALTON; or, The Rebel of Dorchester. 12mo, cloth, ................ 1 25 THE SCOUT; or, The Black Riders of the Congaree. 12mo, cloth, ................. 1 25 WOODCRAFT; or, the Hawks about the Dovecote. 12mo, cloth, ..................   1 25 THE YEMASSEE; a Romance of South Carolina. 12mo, cloth, ..................... 1 25 Simms' New Work. SOUTHWIARD 1IO! A Spell of Sunshine. By William Gilmore Simms. 1 vol. 12mo, 1 25 (Dr. R. Montgomery Bird.) CALAVAR; the Knight of the Conquest. By the late Robert Montgomery Bird. 12mo, cloth.......................................................................... 1 25 NICKt OF THE WOODS; or, The Jibbenainosay: a Tale of Kentucky. By Robert M. Bird, M D. 1 vol. 12mo, cloth,.................. ................. ............... 1 25 (W illiam  Henry   Herbert.) THE CAVALIERS OF ENGLAND; or, The Times of the Revolutions of 1642 and 1688. By Henry W. Herbert. 1 vol. 12ing, cloth, second edition, ................... .. ... 1 25 THE KNIGHTS OF ENGLAND, SCOTLAND, AND FRANCE. By Henry W. Herbert. 1 vol. 12mo, cloth, ............................................................. 1 25 TIIE CHEVALIERS OF FRANCE; from the Crusaders to the Mareschals of Louis XIV. By II. W. Herbert, author of the "Cavaliers of England," &c., &c. 1 vol. 12mo, cloth, 1 25 BMARMADUKE W1WIL; an Historical Romance of 1651. By H. W. Herbert. New and Revised Edition. 1 vol. 12mo, cloth, ........................................ 1 25 (J. V S Huntington.) THE FOREST. By J. V. Huntington, author of "Lady Alice," "Alban," &c. 1 vol. 12mo, second edition, ..................................................... ...... 1 25 ALPAN. By J. V. IIuntington, author of "Lady Alice," "The Forest," &c. A new and completely altered edition. 2 vols. 12mto, cloth, .............................. 2 00 Lee's Tales of Labor. THE MASTER BUILDER; or, Life at a Trade. By Day Kellogg Lee, author of "Sum- merfield; or, Life on a Farm." 12mo, cloth, second edition, .......... .... .....  00 MERRIMACK; or, Life at the Loom. By Day Kellogg Lee, author of "The Master Builder; or, Life at a Trade," &c. 12mo, cloth, ..................... ............ 00 SUMMERFIELD ;  or, Life on a Farm. By Day Kellogg Lee. 12mo, clth, ...........  100 (Alice Carey.) CLOVERNOOK; or, Recollections of our Home in the West. By Alice Carey. 1 vol. 12mo, cloth, seventh edition, ...................... .... ... .......... .. .  1l 00 CLOVERNOOK, SECOND SERIES; or, Recollections of our Neighborhood in the West. By Alice Caiey, author of 4' Hagar," &c., &c. 12mo, cloth, .... ................... 1 00 "AGAR; a Story of To-day. By Alice Carey, author of "Clovernook," "Lyra," &c. 1 vol. 12mo, cloth, second edition, ...... ............................ ........... ... 00 (Caroline Chesebro'.) DREAM-LAND BY DAYIGHT; a Panorama of Romance. By Caroline Chesebro'. 12mo, second edition, .................................. .................. .......  ISA; a Pilgrimage. By Caroline Chesebro', author of "Dream-Land by Daylight," &c., &c. 1 vol. 12mo, cloth, second edition ..... ................... & ......... 00 THE CHLDREN OF I,ITGIT   i a Theme for the Time. By Caroline Chesebro'. 1 vol.  l12 lo. cln'i, secondl  edliti n . ..................................................... 1 io   4    J. S. REDF1ELD'S REClEJNT PUIBI,ICATIONS.   THE YOUTH OF JEFFER'SON; a Chronicle of College Scrapes at Williamsburg, Vir- ginia, A D. 1764. 12mo, cloth, second edition, ..................................... $0 75 WESTERN CHARACTERS; being Types of Border Life in the Western States. By J. L. McConnell. 12mo, cloth,.......................   . ... ........  .. 1 25 3ASY WARREN AND HS CONTEMPORARIES. Sketches for Home Circles. By William T. Coggeshall. 12mo, cloth,.......................................... 1 00 A STRAY YANKEE IN TEXAS. By Philip Paxton. With Illustrations by Darley. 1 vol. 12mo, cloth,............................................................... 1 25 VASCONSELOS; a Romance of the New World. By Frank Cooper. 12mo, cloth,...    1 25 TALES AND TRADITIONS OF IIUNGARY. By Theresa Pulszky. With a portrait of the Author. 1 vol. 12mo, cloth, ................................................. 1 25 CAP-SHEAF; a Fresh Bundle. By Louis Myrtle. 1 vol. 12mo, cloth, ............... 1 00 THE LION'S SKIN AND LOVER HUNT. By Charles de Bernard. 1 vol. 12mo,.... 1 00 CHANTICLEER; a Thanksgiving Story of the Peabody Family. By Cornelius Ma- thews.......................................................................... O  75 THE PRETTY PLATE; a Christmas Juvenile. By John Vincent, Esq. With Illustra- tions by Darley. 1 vol. 18mo, cloth gilt,     ........................................ O 50 MSCETT,.ANEOUS. THE WORKS OF THE HON. WILLIAM H. SEWARD, with a Memoir, Portrait, and other engravings on steel. 8 vols. 8vo, cloth, per volume, ........................ 2 50 Do.    do.    do.    half calf, .................................... 3  75 Do.    do.    do.    full calf, extra, ............................. 4  50 MACAULAY'S SPEECHES. 2 vols. 12mo, cloth, second edition, ..................... 2 00 MEAGHER'S SPEECHES. Speeches on the Legislative Independence of Ireland, with IntroductoryNotes. ByThomas FrancisMeagher. 12mo, portrait,.............. 1 00 THE SUPPRESSED LETTERS OF THOMAS MOORE. Edited, with an Introductory Letter, by T. Crofton Croker, F S.A.; four engravings on steel. 12mo, cloth,...... 1 50 EPISODES OF INSECT LIFE. By Acheta Domestica. Three series: Insects of Spring, Summer, and Autumn. 8 vols. 8vo, cloth gilt, beautifully illustrated. Each,...... 2 00 The same Work, in sets of Three Volumes, exquisitely colored after Nature. Extra gilt, gilt edges, .................................................................  12 00 OUTLINES OF COMPARATIVE PHYSIOGNOMY; or, Resemblances between Men and Animals. ByJ. W. Redfield, M D. With 830 Illustrations. 8vo,............. 2 00 (R. C. Trench, B. D.) SYNONYMS OF THE NEW TESTAMENT. By Richard Chenevix Trench, B D. 12mo, cloth, .......................................................................... O  75 ON THE STUDY OF WORDS. By Richard Chenevix Trench, B D. 1 vol. 12mo, cloth, fifth edition. From the second London edition, .............................. O 75 ON THE LESSONS IN PROVERBS. By Richard Chenevix Trench, B D., author of "The Study of Words."  12mo, cloth, .......................................... O 50 CHARACTERS IN THE GOSPELS; illustrating Phases of Character at the Present Day. By Rev. E. II. Chapin. 1 vol. 12mo, cloth,................................ O 50 THE CATACOMBS OF ROME, as Illustrating the Church of the First Three Centuries. By the Right Rev. William Ingraham Kip, D D., Missionary Bishop of California. With over 100 Illustrations. 12mo, cloth, ........................................ O 75 THEOLOGICAL ESSAYS. By Frederick Denison Maurice. 12mo, cloth, ......... (..  1 00 THlE DIVINE CHARACTER VINDICATED; being a Review of Dr. Beecher's "Con- flict of Ages." By Rev. Moses Ballou. 12mo, cloth, ...................... ........ 1 00 THE NIGHT SIDE OF NATURE; or, Ghosts and Ghost Seers. By Catharine Crowe. 1  vol. 12mo, cloth; ........................... ................................... 1  00 BRONCHTIS AND KINDRED DISEASES, in language adapted to the common reader. By W. W. Hall, M D. 1 vol. 12mo, cloth,....... ................... .............. 1 00 GRISCOM ON VENTILATION. The Uses and Abuses of Air. 12mo, cloth, third edition,............................................................................ O  75 CHAPMAN'S AMERICAN DRAWING-BOOK. Three Parts piublishedl.     Ech   .. O 50 OHAPMAN'S DRAWING COPY-BOOKS. Per dozen      ........  .................... 1 50   THE NOCTES AMBROSIANAi; WITH PORTRAITS OF WILSON, LOCKHART, MAGINN, HOGG, AND FAC-SIM[LES. EDITED, WITH MEMOIRS, NOTES, AND ILLUSTRATIONS, BY DR. SHELTON MACKENZIE, EDITOR OF SHRIL'S "SKETCHKS OF THE IRISH BAR." 5 Vols., 12mo., cloth. Price $5.00. The Noctes were commenced in 1822, and closed in 1835. Even in England, the lapse of years has obscured many circumstances which were well known thirty vPars ago. DR. SHELTON MACKENZIE, already favorably known as editor of Sheil' "Sketches of the Irish Bar," has undertaken the editorship of TuE NOCTES AMBROSIANZ, for which so familiar acquaintance, during the last twenty-five years, with the persons, events, and places therein noticed may be assumed to qualify him. He has been on terms of intimacy with most of the eminent political and literary characters treated of in the "NOCTES," and his annotation of the text will include personal recollections of them. Besides this, Dr. Mackenzie has written for this edition a "History of the Rise a nd Pro- gress of Blackwood's Magazine," with original memoirs of the principal accredited authors of the "NOCTES)" via:-Professor Wilson, The Ettrick Shepherd, J. G. Lockhart, and Dr. Maginn. He will also give the celebrated (c Chaldee Manuscript," published in 1817, instantly suppressed, and so scarce that the only copy which the editor has ever seen is that from which he makes the present reprint. There will also be given the three articles, entitled "CHRISTOPHER IN THE TENT,' (in August and September, 1819); never before printed, in any shape in this country. The interlocutors in "THE TENT," include the greater number of those afterwards introduced in the "NOCTES." The "Metricumrn Symphosium Ambrosianum,"-an addendum to No. III. of "THi NOCTES," (and which notices every living author of note, in the year 1822), will be in corporated in this edition. This has never before been reprinted here. Nearly Ready, in Two Volumes. THE ODOHERTY PAPERS, FORMING THE FIRST PORTION OF THE MSCELLANEOUS WRITINGS OF THE LATE DRP. MAGINN. WITII AN ORIGINAL MEMOIR AND COPIOUS NOTES: BY DR. SHELTON MACKENZIE. FOR more than a quarter of a century, the most remarkable magazine writer of his time, was the late William Maginn, LL D., well-known as the Sir Morgan Odoherty of Blackwood's ,tagaazine, and as the principal contributor, for many years, to Eraserls and other periodicals. The combined learning wit, eloquence, eccentricity, and huno, of Maginn, had obtained for him, long before his death, (in 1843), the title of THE MODERN RABELAIS. His magazine articles possess extraordinary merit. He had the  mat of putting a vast quantity of animal spirits upon paper, but his graver articles-which contain sound and serious principles of criticism-are earnest and well-reasoned. The collection now in hand will contain his Facetim (in a variety of languages), Trans- lations, Travesties, and Original Poetry, also his prose Tales, which are eminently beauti- ful, the best of his critical articles, (including his celebrated Shakspeare Papers), an] his Homeric Ballads. The periodicals in which he wrote have been ransacked, fron "Blackwood" to "Punch." and the result will be a series of great interest. DR. SHELTON MACKENZIE, who has undertaken the editorship of these writings of his distinguished countryman, will spare neither labor nor attention in the work. The first volume will contain an original Memoir of Dr. Maginn, written by Dr Mackenzie, nd a characteristic Portrait, with fac-simile. ' Published by J, $. REDFIELD, "O & 112 XNasan sreet, N'ew  York.   Memoirs of a Distinguished Financier. FIFTY YEARS IN BOTH HEiMSPHERES; OR, REMNISCENCES OF A MERCHANT'S LIFE. By VINCENT NOLTE.     12mo.  Price $1.25.     [Eighth Edition] The following, being a few of the more prominent names introduced in the work, will show the nature and extent of personal and anecdotal inter- est exhibited in its pages:- Aaron Burr; General Jackson; John Jacob Astor; Stephen Girard; La Fayette; Audubon; the Barings; Robert Fulton; David Parish; Sam- uel Swartwout; Lord Aberdeen; Peter K. Wagner; Napoleon; Paul Delaroche; Sir Francis Chantry; Queen Victoria; Horace Vernet; Major General Scott; Mr. Saul; Lafitte; John Quincy Adams; Edward Living- ston; John R. Grymes; Auguste Davezac; General Moreau; Gouverneur Morris; J. J. Ouvrard; Messrs, Hope & Co.; General Claiborne; Marshal Soult; Chateaubriand; Le Roy de Chaumont; Duke of Wellington; Wil- liam M. Price; P. C. Labouchere; Ingres; Charles VI., of Spain; Mar- shal Blucher; Nicholas Biddle; Manuel Godoy; Villele; Lord Eldon; Emperor Alexander, etc. etc. "He seldom looks at the bright side of a character, and dearly loves-he confesses it-a bit of scandal. But he paints well; describes well, seizes characteristics which make clear to the reader the nature of the man whom they illustrate." The memoirs of a man of a singularly adventurous and speculative turn. who entered upon the occupations of manhood early, and retained its energies late ; has been an eye- witness of not a few of the important events that occurred in Europe and America be- tween the years 1796 and 1850, and himself a sharer in more than one of them; who has been associated, or an agent in some of the largest commercial and financial operations that British and Dutch capital and enterprise ever ventured upon, and has been brought into contact and acquaintance-not unfrequently into intimacy-with a number of the remarkable men of his time. Seldom, either in print or in the flesh, have we fallen in with so restless, versatile and excursive a genius as Vincent Nolte, Esq., of Europe and America-no more limited address will sufficiently express his cosmopolitan domicile.- Blnackwood's .Magazine. As a reflection of real life, a book stamped with a strong personal character, and filled with unique details of a large experience of private and public interest, we unhesita- tingly call attention to It as one of the most note-worthy productions of the day.-J-ewi York Churchman. Our old merchants and politicians will find it very amusing, and it will excite vivid reminiscences of men and things forty years ago. We might criticise the hap-hazard and dare-devil spirit of the author, but the raciness of his anecdotes is the result of these very defects.-Boston Transcript. His autobiography presents a spicy variety of incident and adventure, and a great deal of really useful and interesting information, all the more acceptable for the profusion of anecdote and piquant scandal with which it is interspersed.--. Y. Jour. of Commerce. Not the least interesting portion of the work, to us here, is the narration of Nolte's intercourse with our great men, and his piquant and occasionally ill-natured notice of their faults and foibles.-J V Y. Herald. It is a vivid chronicle of varied and remarkable experiences, and will serve to rectify the errors which too often pass among( men as veritable history.--Eveningr Post. The anecdotes, declamations, sentiments, descriptions, and whole tone of the book are vivacious and genuine, and, making allowance for obvious prejudices, graphic and reliable. To the old it will be wonderfully suggestive, to the young curiously inform- ing, and to both rich in entertainment.-Boston .Atlas. As an amusing narrative, it would be difficult to find its superior; but the book has peculiar interest from the freedom with which the author shows up our American noto- rienies of the past forty years.--Courier   -   
         
       
   
