
    ----CITATION----
        Poore, Benjamin Perley, (1820-1887). The West Point Cadet, or, The Turns of Fortune's Wheel .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC7477
    ----FULL TEXT----
         
      
         
            The West Point cadet, or, The turns of fortune's wheel 
            
               T."  N
54
IS;
a
k T
ow.1
WK-E,
J,                                                                                                             AN"
Up"
4W   4,16 1
TV
gk
fy,
T.
r 4  '.
16 V.,                      -'a, ®  r  "1                                 7,
J
? #k "T4          5
K.
1Y, ,
p'l                                                                               f f,
t R"                                                                              J W    -g
1A,
7
rA
NW!.
7 1       15
Mi. 7                                                                                          ell
f,                                          M5
A
4 A
ZP! i    5 !,                         . .  _',                                                                             _14     vak
41                                                                                                                                                        P
c
4
01
M-                                                             4
mA
W
Lo.
Via,
OR                     1.
xV.41
Nf !.- -
V
.!;,4    IS
.1                                   41                                                                           VIP,
hF
1W
4, a                                                                                                                       RM
tp.
M                                                                                                                                               V11.7
A!                      711
VIT    A   V                                                                                i4
-A
im                                                                                                                                                                                                                   t.A.
015
P
Z.


AL~'             0,                           '!- -
-" mIislTE TTl GPs
IE                   . - ,-I
tOIW~  IEULODA~NYMI                8
Th t'Iwn r heilso toenwii rn
Np 1-Til  GOLDEN' EAfl E. By~~Aub, Jr.
A        No. 2TE BRY8 EURET I* - BySyvniolbJr
~y~anu Cbb, Jkr.
AM-N: t,-TIfl IYATNAlChAMION.By"'S",ioI
N  No. 7.THE B 4REIEGUE.By" Mrs. C. P.Gierry
No. .-4RE D&amp;U RI.ByLutntMuay
No. 10-BEN JlEP. Iyyvanus Cobb,Jr
No. 10 l-Th'IBEIIAL OROET  y-yJr. Cb, r
-No.4LTEWEI OTCDT. By Be Pfi 'R-Iey o1&amp;
No, 12  M k~E, - rB IL ARel# one par , t~vu uioCAN-, o~th
y                     Pe -Tob",~a

)Ia ; Single Copies, Fifteean OentM.
rnlyfweiie e .tu a Tear.

-4-/

, M9

U~9L.P~i  ~     I49
11AW8into    re1,~tn
77.

4'

I,

ta
-~
45     5'
E&amp;4Nfd~sV     .55. *"~-          r
K)

ITHE

WEST POINT. CDET:

--mOi Imo..

~LTurn~fW  rf utrsLIeL

;j~.
I''

BY~ BEN: PERLEY PGORJg.I

/

a

BOSTON:

ELLIOTT.

118

I,

TIT[OMES &amp; TAL]30T1
WASfINGTVrnqTP*'Pqlv

454~

~:1.

''"A

I

ii
Ii
I
I

V

*1

ii

mow

I
11-i

I'

I

I

-4

NOMMON v  --w W-Iqwpm  ML-

---   9 v         %A A %FAA PA "Mdwvj 1 0


2"

., I

-        4-

THE WEST POINT CADET.

a ,t

CHAPTER. L

THE- END hAND THLE IEGI , le~

1

4-

4 -
4-i..

"'I   "~           ~'.

j4'.

-9

*4

I

:   1

*  $444

-4.-     -'.-          1"

10

-~ -

MERRILY, merrily pealed the Christmas chiMes frox4 the.
bells of old Trinity, as if to proclaim throughout the good city
of New York that the year eighteen hundred ani fifteen was
near its -close. In many a genial, gathering were those. peals
echoed by merry laughter, and even the inmates of those gloomy
gaols which then disfigured the Park, rejoiced, for they knew
that on the morrow their cells would be irradiated, by the hos-
pitable light of good cheer. Yet the grim head of death peeps
through every garland of flowers, and in one mansion those
merry chimes sounded like a funeral knell.
It was one of those spacious, substantial brick edifiles, which
yet grace the lower extremity of the "commercial metropolis,"
and which were then the abodes of those merchant princes who
now inhabit broad. avenues and high-minded streets far away.
No expense had been spared in its construction, nor had the
furniture been selected with a niggardly hand. Costly paint
ings decked the parlor walls; the curtains were of the heaviesti
damask; massive plate loaded the broad side-board, and the
contents of richly-cut decanters in the pantry gate evidexice of
a valuable stock of wines.
Yet one chamber was furnished in tan antiquated, common
manner, and there lay the okvner of all-John Spencer-on hI
bed of death. Threescore years had paaed since he, a poor la
had come to the city to make his fortune. He had auceededEi4
Step after step had the errand-boy advanced, until "the us of

Al

M, 77

I I

I

't 1.

0

r


,                              7 ~'K*' -:'        K  r.  .   'C 'C '

4               THE WEST POINT CADET.
John Spencer and Son now ranked among the first in the com-
mercial world, and sought in vain for new fields in which to
speculate. He was passing rich in lands, and houses, and ships,
and merchandise, yet what did all this avail him, aethe fearful
shadow of the dark banner of the great balancer of accounts
flapped before him! All his schemes. for money-making had
vanished like bubbles on the water, and there was no expression
of hope-either of regained health on earth or of peace beyond
the, grave--in his glassy eyes.
To and fro in the chamber, like a caged hyena, strode the
dying man's'eldest son, partner and namesake, waiting for the
moment when he would no longer have to add " junior ' to his
signature. He was a short, thin man, with scanty chestnut-
colored locks upon his pointed head, and a bland smile ever
upon his countenance, which ill accorded with the cold, shrewd
glances of his.gray eyes, or the compressed rigidity of his
bloodless lips. Dressed in a thread-bare black suit, with a
clumsily-tied white neck-cloth, he was the impersonation of
money-getting, no matter how, if legally. Business tact was.
the cardinal virtue of his narrow mind, and wealth constituted
his only happiness. He was' training his son to walk in the
same path,.
Perhaps it was well for him that he could thus find enjoyment
in contemplating the balance-sheet of the firm of " John Spencer
&amp; Son," for he certainly derived none from the society of his
wife. True, she had brought him a fortune, but she was a sad
vixen; and as she sat in that chamber of death, holding her in-
fant daughter, it was evident that certain financial calculations
as to the future had full possession of her mental faculties.
There was one at the sufferer's bedside, however, watching
with tender care. No tears glistened in her watch-worn eyes,
for Martha Gray's heart was too full to weep, as her mind re-
called twenty years of honest servitude withhim who now lay
before her. She thought of the day when he ad -brought her-
from the Westchester poorhouse to be the only attendant on
himself and his bride,-the time when his household goods were
naught but the simple furniture now around her. Then she
thought of Mrs. Spencer's death-of the two sons she left-of
the constant efforts of Master John to ingratiate himself with
papa at the expense of Master Herbert--of the refusal of the
latter to adopt any profession, save that of a landscape painter
-r-and then, ever intruding itself, came the thought that the old

THE WEST POINT CADET.                 5
gentleman had but a few hours to live. Harsh and severe as he
hadbeen, she loved him, and her heart was full of the echoes of,
sulky replies that she had given him. What would have been
her joy to have felt that she was to have new opportunities of
service and obedience, and trials of her patience and gratitude
for.him who lay there before her, gasping for breath!
The sound of the Christmas chimes appeared to arouse him,
and his eyes kept glancing toward the door, with an expression
of expectation. At last be made a sign to Martha Gray, who
raised hjm in her arms, and propped him up with pillows. His
thin, asify lips opened.
"John," he feebly called.
"Here I am, sir," said the son, stopping his walk and ap-
proaching the bedside.
"Your brother Clement ?"
"I suppose he is yet in Paris, sir, although I wrote him in
August that you was ill, and wished him to return."
For some moments the dying man remained silent, with his
eyes closed, and the son resumed his walk. But his steps were
soon arrested by the voice of his father, who appeared to have
rallied all the expiring energies of his body and mind for a last
effort.
"John," said -he, "I fear you have made me misjudge your
brother. But now promise me that you will, be liberal to him,
and that even if he does not come up to the terms of my last
will, you "will let him have enough; there is enough for both.
Martha Gray, too-poor Martha Gray ! Let her be made
com-',
But here his voice faltered. He had. already entered the dark
valley of the shadow of death, and sank back, pale and breathless.
Martha; took his band; it was cold and clammy, but he gave a
gentle pressure, and the pupils of his sunken eyes seemed to
dilate as he fixed them on her.
" Clement-take care of Clement!" he murmured with diffi-
culty. - A slight convulsion passed over his rigid features, and
all that was mortal of the millionaire was hushed in eterna&amp;l
8leep,
Bursting into tears, Martha Gray knelt at the bedside, but ere
she had proceeded far in her fervent prayer for the peace of the
soul just departed, the harsh voice of the systematic man of
business grated upon her ear'.
" You can remain~ with tlhe body, Martha, until the under-

II

f,

t


if,

6

THE WEST POINT CADET.

*1

TAE WEST POINT CADET.

takers come. Now, my dear wife, let us go to tea." And Mr.
John Spencer-junior no longer-left the solemn chamber of
death, accompanied by his wife, and their youngest child, a
daughter. She alone, poor child, who had never seen death-
before, wept bitterly.
"Don't cry, sissy," said Jher mother, as they left the room.
"You can play as loud as you please now, and I shall get you
such nice black silk dresses."
"1No extravagance !" growled John, Spencer. But he con-,
tinued: "I suppose that a great funeral will be expected,,
though.".
The sun had not risen the next morning, when a young man
leaped ashore from the skiff of a pilot-boat at Whitehall landing,
andl hastened to the Spencer house, pale, breathless, speechless.-
It was 'the youngest son Clement. A glance at the closed
blinds of thb house told him all, and it was with a convuLsive
shudder that he grasped the crape-enveloped knocker.
"Too late! too late !" exclaimed Martha Gray, as she opened
the door.
Her words fell like the clods upon a coffin as they reached
the young wanderer'sheart. Mechanically he followed her up
stairs, and there, in that well-remembered chamber, lay his
father. No! it was but his father's corpse, covered with a sheet
which marked its outline.
Reverentially uncovering the face, Clement Spencer gazed
upon the well-known liheaments, and pressed his lips to that
compressed forehead from whence the disembodied spirit had
ascended to judgment. Alas.! those familiar features were
settled in the calm repose of death, and bitterly did the young
man reproach himself that he had been absent, although he had
immediately left Paris on receiving a letter from his brother
John (dated in September), stating that the health of their
father Was not very good.
A footstep aroused him; it was his brother, evidently not in
the best of humor.
" Why Clem," he petulantly exclaimed, " what was the use of
rushing in and tearing up stairs so ? You almost frightened
Mrs. Spencer. into a fit. We haven't hiad much sleep of late,
either.n
" When did our poor' father die ?" asked the sorrow-stricken
"'Last night. Hie wasn't so very poor, though; but I'll tell

I -~

you at once, you don't get much of it.' He -had to work too
hard for his money to leave much for you to spend."
Cfement gazed at his brother through his' tears with a look of
mingled astonishment and anger. But he at once subdued- the'
latter passion, saying:
" For the sake of him' who lies before us, brother John, d6
not thus insult his remains. I ask not his money-nay, I will
not even burthen you with my presence after his bodyhas been
laid in the dust. Until then, I beg you not. to wound my
feelings."
John Spencer muttered something which sounded like ",Soft
soap!" then replied aloud:
" Very well! You'll learn soon enough how things stand.
Meanwhile, your old sky-parlor is ready, forI expected you'
yesterday. The vessel you came in was reported nearly a week
ago by one which, left Havre the next day, and brought her
passenger list."
"Did father know that I was coming ?"
"Yes!" boldly answered Mri..John Spencer, going to the
window and gazing through the half-closed blinds into'the
street.
"And I was only a few hours too late!P" exclaimed Clement;
in an agonized tone. Then, taking a fond look at the departed,
he reverentially re-covered the face, and went up to his old
room. Everything there reminded him of his lost parent-that
austere man, whose ambitious desire to make his youngest son
a lawyer had been disappointed, yet who was too indulgent to
thwart the young man's inclination.
"No, Clem-you were not expected," said a well-remembered
voice, and looking around, he saw Martliartxray.
"My dear old- nurse," he exclaimed, " ho *"glad I am to see
you!"
"And I to see you," replied the honest danie. "But sit down,
for I have much to tell you."
So she told him of her father's last'illness-of the deathbed
conversation, and of his brother's duplicity. He- listened in
amazement, and the recital, while it arrested the falling tears,
made his brow writhe with anguish. The fact that niammon-
had enticed his brother, the companion of his youth, and made
him a plotting' foe; seemed a strange and agonizing thought,
which, like a fearful spectre,'almost s110ok his faith.
" Never mind, Clem," said the old lady ; " I have three thou.

I

Ju

8

.a


1 1.

THE WEST POINT CADET.

THE WEST -POINT CADET.

sand dollars in the savings' bank, and half of it shall be yours.
It all came from your father."
"Thanks-thanks !" replied the young man. "I shall not
require your hard earnings, though, for I have enough of the
liberal sum given me by my father when I went abroad to supply
present wants, and I have an art, dear nurse, that will support
me."
Three days passed slowly along, during which time Clement
Spencer took his meals in his room, and saw n6 one of his
brother's family, except his sadl-hearted little niece and Martha
Gray. Then came the funeral, with all the -pomp that wealth
could purchase, and the next morning a servant was directed
to invite Mr. Clement Spencer into the library, "to hear the
will read."
Please, sir, he's gone."
"What!I" exclaimed the new master of the house.
"He went away early this morning, sir, and told the hack-
driver to take him to the, mail-stage office, in Courtland-street.''"
It- was even so. The disinherited had- gone forth, aniost beg-
gared, a fresh recruit for the great battle of life. - John Spencer,
left in the undisturbed possession of his father's wealth, was on
tha summit of fortune's wheel.

CHAPTER II-

A CHRISTMAS GIFT.

TEN years-long, long -years-had passed away since the time
chronicled in the preceding chapter, and the shrill winds were
whistling Christmas chimes for the first time in the then infant
village of Coalboro', in the interior of Pennsylvania. Never
before had the withered leaves of winter been checked by human
habitations, as they were whirled throughthat picturesque dale,
ahd they now appeared to give mystic Delphian utterances ere
they reached the ground. Not merely announcing the presence
of winter, but rustling welcomes to the busy communities who
were peopling the hitherto deserted solitude, and-beginning to
extract from beneath its sterile soil '" black 'diamonds," which
would set the frost-king at defiance. The cold blasts might

I

sweep In mad fury over the plains, or eddy through the streets,
or moan through. the forests, yet those who could enjoy the
genial warmth emitted by glowing anthracite from the newly-
opened mines at Coalboro', cared not for the frozen temperature
without.
The mines had not been long worked, and the village was- as
yet in an incipient state, with many a stump in newly laid out
streets. Log huts had been hastily erected for the families of
the miners, and scattered over the town were a score or so of
dwellings with more pretension to elegance and comfort. Prom-
inent among these was a cottage, the very model of rural ele-
gance, which was on the main avenue. It was shaded by many
stalwart oaks, relics of the original forest, and over. its rustic:
porch the gorgeous woodbine 'hung in heavy masses, relieved"
by the graceful tendrils of the clematis.
It was theshome of Clement Spencer, he who was left at the
bottom of fortune's wheel at the death of his father, and who
must be personally introduced ere the reader is informed- how
the decade has been passed. The clock--was striking eight as he
entered his house, having been to the post-office, and bought
from there. the budget of letters and newspapers just received
by the weekly mail.
He was a tall, well-formed man, that Mr. Clement Spencer,
.strongly built, and broad across the chest, yet in nowise clumsy.
His cheeks were thin, his dark hazel eyes somewhat sunken, his
hair grizzled with time's snow traces, and his high temples
were indicative of great decision - of character. Yet an ex-
pression of subdued content played around his full lips, and his
natural flow of animal spirits ever gushed forth from his true
heart, like the clear sparkling current, of an artesian well.
Stamped was he, in nature's mint, as one of her noblemen, that
class. represented in the old Spanish pictures, with " gentleman "
indelibly written on. every lineament, and great aspirations
enthroned upon each lofty brow.
Checkered had been his life since he wwnt forth from his
desolate home, to seek fame and fortune. Perilous is the career
of a young artist, who has but his own genius to aid him, as he
seeks " patronage."~ Luckily for the young, adventurer, he not
only possessed artistic ability, but a latent fund of good humor,
and a sauvity of manner well calculated to please the frank. peo-
ple of the West. His portraits were soon regarded as superior


TIE WEST POINT CADET. 

10

TIE WEST POINT CADET.

1~

to those of any other artist west of the Alleghanies, and wherever
-he opened a studio,-sitters came in crowds.
He thus acquired fame and fortune, but no notice was taken
of him by his brother John, who was now one of the millionaires
-of New York. The name of John Spencer was,-recognized- as
giving the value of coin to any note which bore it, and proudly
did it figure upon many a subscription list; yet never a copper
did the individual' who bore it bestow upon a poor blind man
who crouched daily beside his office door. -His narrow mind
had been narrowed yet further by the success which had fol-
lowed his business operations, and his pet objects of thought
seemed to be calculations as to how much his wife could spend,
and how little a clerk could"live upon without becoming dis-
honest.. Little cared he what had become of the brother whom
he had let go forth almost penniless, and, if the truth must be
told, he was as little cared for in return..
It was not until the young painter had won-both fme aid
fortune by steady toil, that an accident changed the 'whole
tenor of'his life. He was journeying from Ohio to Washington
city (where he had several commissions), as all true lovers of
nature journey-on foot. This enabled him to epjoy-pany a
panorama of varied landscape, and at the same time to pursue
his researches in geology, to which he had given much atten-
tion. Pleasant was it to investigate the wrecks of worlds, and
Ilad in inanimate nature new proofs of the sacred truth of the
Inspired word.
One pleasant summer afternoon, as the yonng artist was -thus
leisurely sauntering across the Alleghanies through an un-
trodden wilderness, he sat down to rest upon' the precipitous
bank of a brawling mountain torrent. A recent storm had so
swollen the current that a-portion of the bank had been swept
away; and as-Clement Spencer gazed at the- newly-developed
strata with a half-abstracted glance, a sudden thought took
possession of his very soul. -His cheeks glowed, and an un-
natural light gleaned froni his-eyes, as he carefully examined
the long-hidden, though now uncovered mineral. Yew! he had
discovered what had been so anxiously sought on the western
hemisphere--coal. -
Carrying some of the precious substance to Philadelphia, he
found it what he supposed, nor was it long ere he had (partly
by the ssistance of wealthy western friends)~ purchased the
valuable tract of land. A company was then organized, to*

.4

IC

which he in turn sold, reserving a controlling right, and acting
as agent. Then came a trial. There was a doubt as- to the
practical value of the "anthracite," so different was it from the
"bituminous " coal exclusively used. Notable professors de-
clared it useless, and wits made it the object of their ridicule,
while croakers shook their heads as they spoke of the "Coal-
boro' Mining Company." What little stock had. been taken
could have been purchased from-the holders at a song.
But Clement Spencer was not to be daunted. Packing up
his painting materials, he entered into the mining operations
.with heart and soul, determined to overcome every obstacle.
There was, perhaps, a shade of anxiety on his features, bit he
grappled with the great question, and never rested until he had
achieved the object of his ambition. Coal from the Coalboro'
mine was- triumphantly popular at last. Clement's friends
exulted, his detractors held their peace.
It was at this proud period of his history that he entered his
house on the Christmas eve of eighteen hundred and twenty-
five. We have spoken of the pleasant external appearance of
the cottage, but that was eclipsed by the luxifious comfort
which reigned within. Cosy rooms, a few good pictures, a well
selected library, and a fine bathing establishment, showed that
the owner, when abroad, had learned that life is something
more than a mere animal existence. One room alone was
plainly furnished; it was the sleeping chamber of Clement
Spencer, and the furniture was that previously described as
having been cherished by his father. A cunning dealer had
found no difficulty in obtaining it in exchange for a new yet
more modern set, from Mrs. John Spencer, and the only' orna-
ment in the room which it graced was a heavy gilt frame, in
which was set- a window sash composed of one large pane of
glass. To this, the picturesque external landscape, wild and
craggy, supplied an exquisite picture, ever changing with the
seasons, never -the same.
Nor was this pleasant abode without a presiding mistress. It
-had been Clement Spencer's first care, after acquiring means of
support, to seek out Martha Gray. She had not remained in
his brother's service, and needed but little persuasion to go and
share' the fortunes of " Master Clem," over whom she thence-
forth watched like a mother. Past the meridian of beauty-life,
no one would have called the old dame .good-looking, yet the.
serene expression of her countenance was very dear to the

[

IA

11

I,


THE WEST .POINT CADET*

object of her care. To an almost childlike simplicity and sin-
gleness of heart, she united a dignity of thought and a just con-
ception of character, that made her a fit companion for the
young wrestler with fate.
There she sat, in her plain black bombazine dress and snow-
White cap, busy with her knitting. Every household futy had
been attended to, and she was ready to converse with her, wor-
shipped "Master Clem," or to keep silent if he was-as was
often the case-absorbed in his own thoughts.
"Do you know what night this is ?" he asked,,as he sat down
o read the letters and papers which he had just brought from
the post-office.I
"Can I forget ?" replied she, with a sigh. "How fast the ten
years have sped, and 0 how much we have to be grateful for !"
Mr. Spencer made no reply, for he was spell-bound by a letter
which he had just opened. It was brief, and he soon laid it
down, then took it up and re-read it.
"Nothing wrong about the coal, I trust ?" exclaimed Martha
Gray, who saw that some startling, tidings were in the letter.
"No, no !" replied Mr. Spencer. "This letter, Martha, is from
-it is from my brother John."
"John Spencer !" ejaculated the good dame. "Has he really
written you ?"
"Yes. Let me read you his letter." And he read:
"New York, December 20th, 1825.
"Dip. BRo.,-Am glad to hear yr. coal well spoken of. Gan
you let me have fifty (50) shs. stock at say eigthty (80) dols.?
If so I will take it., Please advise without delay. Yrs. truly,
JOHN SPENCER.
"P.S.-Alice has married badly. Have a son, John junior,
who is A. No. 1, and hope he will in time become a partner in
the house. Now only five years old, so cannot say.  J. S.
"CLEM. SPENCER, Esq."

"A strange letter,"-said Martha Gray, in
having kept silence for ten years. Really
wonders, if it can thaw out such a heart."
"Be charitable-be charitable!" replied
it was evident from his manner that he was
-an opinion strengthened by the letter of
his New York agent, who requested ten
value. 'At last, he felt that lie was at the

a bitter tone, "after
the coal is working
Mr. Spencer, though
of the same opinion
the same date from
shares at their full
summit of fortune's

TIE WEST POINT CADETi

isp.

wheel. Yet who would this wealth profit when the wild winds
sang a requiem over his grave-?
His reverie, and a doze of the good- housekeeper, were sud-
denly interrupted by a loud, nervous clangingO'of the knocker
on the front door, which brought them both to their feet.
"What can the matter be ?" asked Martha Gray, as Mr. Spen-
cer, taking a candle, went to the door. As he opened it, the
wind extinguished the light, leaving everything both within
and without in darkness.
"Who's there ?" he. called out.
There was no reply, and he was about to-, close the door,
thinking that the alarm was an idle holiday prank, when the
faint wail of an infant apparently just awakened, met his ear.
Guided by the cry, he found a small basket placed upon his
door-stone, and- as he brought it into the lighted room, it was
evident that the vehement vociferation came from a very small
pattern of humanity, carefully wrapped in a blanket.
"Dear me !" exclaimed~ Martha Gray, pulling every needle
from her knitting. "Why it's -a baby! What can we do with
it ?"

" Cherish and

protect it," was Mr. Spencer's laconic response.

CHAPTER III.

NEW ACQUAINTANCES.

THE unheralded advent of an unticketed specimen of hu-
manity produced, as- might have been expected, no small com-
motion, in the house of Mr. Spencer, and the inmittes of his
kitchen, who had also heard, the knock, crowded around the
table on which the basket had been deposited. Indignant as
the bld housekeeper was, tears came into her' eyes as she took
the little foundling from its resting-place, and endeavored to'
silence its loud cries. The appealing innocence of the unsullied
waif thus cast upon the stormy sea of life, without a protector,
was irresistible.
Mr. Spencer, meanwhile, was searching among the contents
of the basket for some clue to the child's identity. Nor was he

12

I

I

'.14
A

I1

a

A

e


THE W.ST POINT..CADET.

14

THEt WEST POINT CADET.

unsuccessful, for beneath tie small pillow was a packet, and,
strange to say, it was addressed to himself.-
Poor thing " said Martha Gray, as she paced up and down
the room with the still sobbing .infant. "Who can be its
mother ,"
"That's not the question now," responded Mr. Spencer.
Rather ask who will take care of it ?" And as he spqke, he
slipped the package into one of: his pockets, unseen by any of
the astonished -group, who were all gazing at the stranger.
W Let me see, said the housekeeper, continuigng her walk.
0, 1 have it! You know, sir, that tall Welch miner who lives
in the log cabin next the Methodist church ?"
What! Meredith Egan ? A sad drunken fellow he is."
That's true, sir. But his wife:is as good as he is good for
nothing. Their child was buried to-day; it was about the age
of this one, and I am sure that she will be glad to. come here as
nurse."
Go for her at once, Hugh," said Mr. Spencer, to his faithful
Irish gardener. And when the man left, he retired to his study,
leaving orders to be called the moment that Mrs. Eagan arrived.
Locking the door of his retreat behind him, he carefully ex-
amined the contents of the package; then as carefully put it
away, and no one was the wiser for what information he
obtained.                            '
Mrs. Eagan, poor woman, was delighted at the situation
offered, and was immediately installed up stairs with the babe,
giving rise to a deal of gossip in Coalboro' the next day.
Neither was the scandal- diminished when, on the next Sabbath
morning, the infant was presented at the Episcopal church for
baptism, and named after its godfather, " Clement Spencer."
No-one dared to hint that the child had thus been adopted by
its own father, for Mr. Spencer's character was far above suspi-
cion.. Yet Many shook their heads knowingly, as they insinu-
ated that he must have more knowledge of the little one's
parentage than he chose to impart.
Whether this was the case or not, the Warm affections which
had for years been pent up in Mr. Spencer's heart, now gushed
forth in copious streams, and his " godson," as he termed the
Child, received his loving care. The vexations of business were
everforgotten by the millionaire mine-owner when he sportedI
with the child, and the. shade which deep thought had cast over
his brow was dissipated. by the gratified snlile with which. he.

gazed upon his protege. Neither did the infant fail to recipro-
Cate this fondness, ere fairly conscious of existence, for it would
lift its tiny hands towards him whenever he approached, with
a cry of delight.
Sothe boy grew up, carefully trained by his godfather and by
Martha Gray; nor was there a finer youth in Coalboro' than
young Clemg Spencer. Handsome, a quick student, and truth-
ful as the sun, he continued to endear himself to all who knew
11im, The girls taught, him to sing, an old French emigrant
instructed him in the language of that sunny land, and his god-
father was equally anxious to have him attend good schools,
and also take such out-of-doorexercise as would- give him an
athletic frame and matily habits. A-"sound body," he wisely
considered, is necessary to a "sound mind.",
wAll this time, Mr, Spencer had never seen any member of his
brother's family, for he had no disposition to renew amicable
relations with the destroyer of his early happiness. Yet on the
tenth anniversary of. Clement's advent-aChristmnas night, two
strangers were deposited at Mr. Spencer's door by the stage-
coach. One was a gaunt, tall individual, shabbily clad, with
large hands and feet, small, suspicious gray eyes, thick protu-
berant lips, and a sanctimonious east of countenance.
"Have I the honor of addressing Mr.~Spencer ?" he asked, as
that-gentleman presented himself.
" That is my name, sir."
"Let me introduce your nephew, sir, John Spencer, Jr., I
am Ichabod Pike, now travelling with him."
Mr. Spencer looked at the young, man with an ;expression
anything but pleasant, nor was it softened by the appearance .of
any pleasing- characteristic. He could not be over fifteen, yet
there was already a sullen, satiated cloud over his common-
place features, his eyes had no expression, and he seemed bent
on switching some specks of mud from his highly polished boots
with a flexible whalebone cane. His attire was unexception-
ble both as to fashion and material, making him an incarna-
tio of the " fashion plates " in a tailor's window.
What could Mr. Spencer do ? There they were, with trunks
and hat-boxes. it. was nine o'clock at night, besides being
Chi-istmas eve. Besides, the youngster was his kinsman; he
Jhad never wronged him; so he invited them into the house.
They remained there a week, during which time the young
New Yorker endeavored to instil love of city pleas ures into the

f

I
I.

I

I

I

I


44

4

'THE WEST POINT CADET.

-4

TH1l WEST POINT CADET.

I

unsophisticated mind of young Clement.. At times, too, he
would endeavor to extract some information from him as to his
godfather's " property, or his own parentage. But on neither
subject was tht boy-communicative, for the very best reason in
the world-he -new nothing to tell.
Mr. Spencer was equally'bored by the inquisitiveness of Pro-
fessor Pike, who appeared to make it his especial mission to ask
questions as to Master Clement's origin. All of these questions
were answered evasively, at first with good humor, and then
with such brevity that it was evident Mr. Spencer had no desire
to be'Interrogated on the subject.
Equally unsuccessful was the sturdy questioner in his attempt
to probe this hidden history among the people of Coalboro'.
He could find but few who were residents of the place when
the babe was first introduced into Mr. Spencer's family, and
none- of them could tell, as much as we have related. So the
mystery which th visitors had come to unravel remained
hidden, and they ixes-e none the wiSer.
- They left with many expressions of profuse thanks for the
hospitality shown them, and hopes that their host woulli soon
return the visit. The idea appeared -to strike Mr. Spencer
rather favorably, for he. felt that he was advancing in years, and
time had worn off all of the bitterness which he had felt toward
his brother, although a deep sense of wrong endured remained.
He. was glad that his nephew had thus broken the ice; yet he
was also glad that he had not remained longer. It was of no
benefit to Clement, who had all the ingenuous-frankness of a
country lad, to associate with the young New Yorker, who
talked but of trotting horses, dress and billiards.
Martha Gray, good woman, did *not hesitate to express her
joy at their departure. Every recollection connected with
young Spencer's father was painful -to her, and she could not
see the son without a mixture of repugnance and dislike which
she found it almost impossible to conceal.'
Clement Spencer seized the first opportunity, after they had
gone, to have an interview with Martha, asking her:
" What did John Spencer mean by asking me about my
parents ? I have never thought about them myself." -
" Nor have you had any -reason to, my dear boy, for is not
-Mr. Spencer all that any parent could be to youi?'' replied the
good dame.         -
" Yes, yes! But he is after all only my godfather."  -

17

Martha Gray made no answer, and then was It, for the first
timb, that a suspicion flashed across his mind.
"Tell me," he exclaimed, "- am I his son ? Is there a cloud
over my birth?"
" I cannot really tell you," was the equivocal reply.
But my mother ?"
"Indeed I do not know."
"What! Am I-can I be the child of shame ?" said Clement,
with a sudden sinking of his heart, and utter revulsion of his
whole frame. Then with a sad heart he turned away, feeling
that he, whose dawn of life had been apparently so fair, was
after all doomed to remain under a cloud of obloquy. Tears
would escape from his full eyes, and he sought his favorite walk
on the river bank, where he could compose his thoughts.
It so happened that a continuous thaw, whichihad lasted over
a week, .had melted the snows in the mountain gorges, and the
river had far exceeded its usual bounds, The swollen current,
as it dashed madly along, carrying with it uprooted trees, was
in accordance with the young man's feelings. But on turning
around a point which commanded a view of the bridge, he for-
got his own troubles. on seeing the danger in which another
was placed..
A stranger, whose dress showed that he was a gentleman,
stood about the centre of this frail structure, holding his horse
by the bridle. It was evident that after he had ventured on, the
span over which he had first passed had given way before the
volume of water, and now the further pier swayed to and fro in
the angry current. Retreat was cut off; to. advance was im-
possible, and while Clement looked there was a crash. Another
moment, and the entire mass of timber came loom-ing down the
surging tide, dissolving as it came along. The horse struck out
for the shore, but the man, who evidently could not swim, uttered
a cry of despair and anguish as he clung to a large timber.
Clement, who was a good swimmer, did not hesitate, but
plunged into the water, regardless of its raging force and the
sharp cold. He hoped to reach the stick of timber to'wvhich the
man clung convulsively, shrieking piteously for help, and at-last
succeeded. Grasping him around the waist with one arm, and
with the other seizing the stick of timber, he endeavored to head
it towards the shore. But it was no easy task, for his thick
clothing had absorbed so much water as to weigh down his
limbs like lead. -On they went, and rapidly approached the falls.
2

1'~

"'I

1-
1'-

4

p


18

THE WEST POINT CADET.

The noise of the roaring torrent fell like a koell upon the lad's
ear, for he feared that they would be carried over the rocky
precipice. Glaring round, in inexpressible dismay, he saw little
chance of extrication from the frightful peril in which he was
involved. There was a crowd on the bank, but they could not
aid him, and some cried frantically to him to save himself. But-
he heroically persevered, and at last, not fifty feet above the falls,
the stick of timber was so near the bank that some men waded,
in, holding to each other, and caught it. A loud shout of triumph
heralded the rescue of the two, and Clement-sank insensible into-
the arms of his godfather, who stood in agony upon the river
bank,
Both the preserver and the preserved were taken to Mr.
Spencer's'house, where Martha Gray kindled up the blazing
fires, and concocted a steaming beverage, which soon restored
warmth and vigor to the chilled and benumbed limbs of the
drenched ones.
"Clem," said Mr. Spencer, "I have been to carry a change of
clothes to the gentleman whose life you have so- nobly saved- It
is no less a personage than the Honorable Mr. Ledroit, who has
just been elected senator from Louisiana, and who is as noted a
geologist as he is a j urist-'
"And who, waiving all ceremony," interrupted a melodious.
voice, "now comes to thank his deliverer."

CHAPTER IV.

DISAPPOINTMENT AND APPOINTMENT-

IT was bitter cold, that January night on which Prefessor
Pike returned with young John Spencer to the paternal roof.
The windrose as the shades of night gathered over the commer-
cial metropolis, and shrill blasts howled among the tall chim- .
neys, like angry demons chanting a wail. Capitalists who had
nothing on earth or in heaven to care for but their coffers, drew
up their arm-chairs.closer to the blazing fires, and dreamed of
their ill-gotten wealth; while the industrious working-classes,
e gathered around their stoves, rehearsed the toils of the day past.
Even the promenades on Broadway hastened along,,is if anx-
ions to reach shelter'from the blast, or looked longingly dowa

I

.1

I3

THIE WEST POINT CADET.

19

'I
I.
J~.

'Vp

i

~. i~

into restaurants, which seemed so comfortable. But the severe
cold was most- cruelly felt. in those vice-haunted regions where
vice revelled undisturbed and drunkenness caroused undis-
turbed. There, haggard with misery, and crouched together
-with shivering closeness to keep the sharp-cutting night-wind
from freezing up the very pulses of their hearts, human beings
writhed in misery, anxious for death to call them home. Yet
the night-wid howled on.
But the wrathYul tones of that night-wind were eclipsed by
the freezing, vengeful reception given by old John Spencer to
his returned son and the inquisitive professor.
"So," he growled out as they entered the sitting-room, "where
from"
Coalboro', sir," replied Professor Pike, who saw at once
that his patron was excited, and hoped to divert his wrath
"1Coalboro' 1" thundered John Spencer. "Why, you left there
a week ago. Where-have you been?"
"The roads are almost impassable, sir, and we were forced to
come -by the way of Newburgh. There we found the river
frozen up, and have consequently been delayed longer than we
had hoped to be!"
"You did what I sent you for ?"
"Really, sir," replied Professor Pike, in an obsequious tone,
" you have no idea-of the industry with which we labored to
accomplish your wishes, but really the veil of mystery is so'
closely pinned down, if I may use the expression, that-"
As he spoke, Mr. Spencer's brow contracted, and. his lips
twitched nervously.. At last he lost all patience, and interrupted
with
"Well, why did you not -tear it away? Mystery fiddlestick!
Of course you saw the boy ??"
" Yes,-sir."
"And what sort of a looking brat is he ?"
"Why, sir, he is a pretty good-looking lad."
"A confounded prig, father," chimed in John .Spencer, Jr.
" You never saw such a Miss Nancy, and he has Uncle Clement
under his thumb. Mighty sinall chance for me there, I tell you."
" What !" said the irritated father; "my brother leave his
fortune to a brat left at his door like a loaf o'f bread !" An un-
definable expression of malignant hatred passed over his cdun;
tenance as lhe spoke; and when he had concluded, he ground his
teeth with rage.

A

A


'V
c~.

20

TIE, WEST POINT CADET.

iv
I,
4E
L,

1 THE WESTTOINT CADET.

21

"Your brother is. very fond of the boy," humbly remarked
Professor Pike, "aid really there is a strong famil likeness.
Can it be his own child ?"
"No!" angrily replied the elder Spencer; "at least I cannot
think so-we must not think so. But has he no servants who
can be bribed? was there no one who could give any informa-+
tion on the subject ?"
"I think, sir," replied the professor, ".that an old 'housekeeper
may, know, but--"
" But mum's the word there," interrupted young John. "I
asked one day if Master Clem resembled his mother. Said she,
iw a surly tone, 'I hope, young man, you don't resemble your
father.'"
"Does she know me ?" asked the elder Spencer.
"Thit she does," answered young John; " and she has about
the, same love for you that a dog has for a hickory switch."
"What's her name ?"        '
"Martha Gray. She*used to know your father, too."
"The old hag, I remember her! *Never mind, John.; we'll
look into this matter, and you shall be your uncle's heir."
Buttoning up his surtout, the merchant moved towards the
door, when his-son advanced towards him, saying:
"I am hard up, sir, and as the sleighing is good, will thank
you for some funds."
"Funds ! Mind your studies."
"I study hard, sir, as the professor will tell you." (That wor-
thy nodded approvingly.) "But all the young men of our set
go out-to Cato's every afternoon when there is good sleighing,
and you would not haye it said that John Spencer's son had to
take his sleigh-rides in~a Broadway omnibus ?"
"Of course not," chimed in the shrill voice of Mrs.. Spencer,.
who now entered .the room, dressed in the height.-of fashion.
"I am glad to see you back from those horrid coal-mines, and
hope ybur father will do as you wish him to. Your son's posi-
tida in society, Mr. Spencer, should not be sacrificed for a few
dollarss." 4
" My son's fiddlestick, madam! If he had only played his ,
cards right, he might have had his Uncle Clem's moneyy"
" But society, Mr. Spencer. We must let him be on an equality
with the young men ourselves." -
" Well, well," growled the discomfited merchant, taking out
his pocket-book; " here's two hundred dollars, John, in SoutherL.

money. Make them    take it at par. I'm going to Tammany
fiall, for I find that by getting into the Board of Aldermen,'I
can have streets opened through my up-town lots.' Thdt's the
' Way, John; always have an eye to business."
"Your son is not unmindful of your counsels," said the pro-
fessor, as the old gentleman left the room. Then turning to
Mrs. Spencer, he continued: "But he profits most by the lady-
like manners and high tone of his lady mother.".
"Really, professor, you flatter me," languishingly replied
Mrs. Spencer, though if she blushed, it did not penetrate' the
rouge. "We are more'obliged to you than I can express, for
having brought up our son with such aristocratic habits."
"And correct moral principles, I trust," added the professor.
" Come," said the young man, "let's move."
The professor had rooms for himself and his student in a
wing of the house, where there was a side door opening on an
alley. Nor was it long ere they emerged from there, somewhat
disguised, and bent their steps towards a noted gambling es-
tablishment near the Park. On their arrival, the young man
was consigned to the tender mercies of two cronies of his tutor,
and so well did they' do their work,. that in about an hour he
came to the table where that worthy was seated, exclaiming:
"Let's go. I'm cleaned out."
"In a moment," was the professor's bland reply. 'Never
mind your bad luck. The stable-men will give you credit, and
you know that Cato is delighted to add fresh items to that bill
of his. When I've played out this hand, we'll have some whiskey
punch and start."
While the young scape-grace was thus on the road to ruin at
New York, Master Clement Spencer was enjoying the society
of the statesmait whom he had rescued from a watery, grave at
Coalboro'. Mr. Ledroit was a. man on whose age it-was diffi-
cult to determine, for his slender figure might have been bent
as it was either by time or infirmity. His thin, curly hair left
exposed a high and expansive forehead; his features were quite
emaciated, and his tlin 'gps were colorless. His large, dark,
melancholy eyes, far sunken beneath overhanging brows,gleanmed
-at times like the flashing brilliancy of sunshine upon water, and
there was an air of mysterious sadness about'him, as though he
was a victim to some hidden sorrow. Yet no one could gaze
on his'-wan countenance, or hear his musical voice, and believe
the mystery was connected withevil.

i


22              THE WEST POINT CADET-
e remained some weeks at Coalboro', visiting the mines, an4
traversing the mountains on geological -expeditions, with young
Clement Spencer as his constant companion. The lad was evi-
dently impressed with his position, and felt that interest in him
so natural to a boy brought up in retirement, apart from the
bustle of the world, who is thrown into contact with a spirit
that has struggled with and mastered its difficulties.  ,,I
Mr. Ledroit had travelled far and wide, not merely glancing
-at what was on his way, but so closely observing.men-and places
that his descriptions possessed the fidelity-of a daguerreotype,
with the originality of a crayon sketch. These descriptions
-were rare treats to young Clement. It seemed, too, tha the'
senator was richly repaid by the lad's original comments on
what he told him, or by his happy remarks about the luxuriance
of nature around them. At any rate, the two were tgether,
from morning until uight, and seemed as devoted, as though
theirs had been a life acquaintance.
Once only did Mr. Ledroit strike an unhappy-chord on the.-
heart-strings which vibrated so pleasantly in unison with the
musical tones of his voice.
" Clem," said he, as they were striding up a ravine, "I was
surprised to learn this morning, while you were at the post-
office, that you are not Mr. Spencer's son."
Exceedingly distressed, almost beyond the power of self-
restraint, the young man turned his eyes, and appealingly asked:
"0 , sir, whose son lan I be ?"
"How can I answer you? It was by accident that I asked
Mr. Spencer this morning how long his wife had been dead. 'I
have never been married,' was his reply. 'But is not Clement
your son.?' I asked. 'No,' he replied; 'he is my godson.' There
the conversation ended, and I regret that I have alluded to it,
for Ir see that it gives you pain."
"Ah," said Clement, his cheek flushing and his eyes glancing
distrustfully, "if I could but answer your question I-should not
mind it ! It is but a short time since I learned. the-fact myself
that Mr. Spencer is not. a relative, though he acts a father's
part. Neither do I wish to question him on the subject, for it
is evident that he is not disposed to tell me, probably because it
is a bitter truth that he would have to tell."  -.
"lNay, nay," replied Mr. Ledroit, " do not think that. There

THE~WEST POINT CADET.

,

are often circumstances which have to, be concealed,-and depend
upon it, Mr. Spencer would not remain silent, were it not fbr

23

CHAPTER V.
HONOR AND DISHONOR.
AFTER Mr. Ledroit was-gone, the young man felt sad at heart,
and often pondered over the mystery of his parentage until he
determined to insist upon an explanation. But when he would
find himself alone with Mr. Spencer, his courage would fail him.
One evening, as he sat listlessly before the fire, Mr. Spencer,
came. with a large packet in his hand.
"Ihave important tidings for you, Clem," he said.
The lad's heart throbbed wildly, for he fancied that the mys-
tery of his life was to be solved, and he gazed eagerly at the
package.
"It is from Senator Ledroit," continued Mr. Spencer, "and it
contains your appointment as a cadet at West Point." -
"A cgidet !" exclaimed young Clement, clapping his hands
with joy.. "Am I really to be a cadet ?" And all bIs trOubles

your good that he should. Meanwhile, what are your prospects
in life ?"
"  y prospects?"
" Yes. Surely, after you risked your life to save mine, I can
but take a deep interest in your future welfare, and perhaps I
may in some way advance you in the world. Now what, above
everything else, 'would you like to be?"
"Were it possible, sir, I would like to -go to West Point,"
replied the young man.
"To West Point! Why you have no idea how hard you '
would have to study to getthere."
" Nay, sir-- think I could.pass exanminationto-morrow. To
be frank, I have for years cherished the hope, and last year had
the promise of An appointment from Squire Williamson, who
was the member of Congress from this district. But, unluckily
for me, he was not re-elected; so I had all my labor for nothing."
" Never mind; you may have better luck," was the kind reply.
That night, on returning, Mr. Ledioit found an imperative
summons to the metropolis, and he took his leave next morning,
with manyAkind wishes on both sides.

"-I

Ai

'

,


IM

THE WEST POINT CADET.

were forgotten in these joyful tidings, which opened the path
to future distinction.
" Yes, my dear Clem; you are to enter West Point, after all.
I feel regret at parting from you, but your heart is bent on a
soldier's life, and I know you will not disggee the name you
bear.".
The remaining winter months passed quickly away, and at
the commencement of the spring term, Mr. Spencer went with
Clemen tto West Point, and rerhained there until the lad-was
comfortably installed.

I1
Sr
L

I

THE WEST. POINT CADET.

25.

I

I /
2.-

4

West Point-what American heart does not leap with joy and
swell with pride at the mere mention of this martial nursery..
which is equally famed for national beauties and historical rec-
ollections! On its impregnable heights, the patriot beholds the
rampart which was defended by brave hearts and bold arms in
the most gloomy period of our national history. A stern relic
of a sterner age, the ruined fortress stands a monument of Ar-
nold's .unsuccessful treason, while near'the smiling river is
ground hallowed by the tread of Washington and Lafayette.
Glorious, toois the magnificent scenery around, with its craggy
rocks, its sparkling cascades, its lovely valleys, its picturesque
mansions, its busy towns, its commerce-laden river-all forming
a theme on which the lover of his country gazes with pride,
while his heart throbs with gratitude to those who there perilled
their lives to hinder a foreign foeman from profaning the spot
with conquering tread. Ever step exhibits a new charm, and
even old Father Rhine, so dear to landscape painters, is eclipsed
by that portion of the Hudson of'which West Point is the cit-
adel, and old Crow's Nest the frowning champion.
The class in which Clement Spencer entered was one of unu-
sual'promise, although ere the first year of study, had passed
away, more than one who had held a brilliant position at the
commencement of the term fell like a meteor, leaving a mourn-
ful darkness behind the wreck of his glittering train. Others,
who were proudly ambitious, yet held no exalted rank in the
lists of intllect, impelled their energies forward with unfalter-
ing determination for renown, their perseverance levelling ob-
stacles to a near approach to the coveted "engineer appoint
mentf," which is the reward of the foremost graduates.
Clement Spencer, although not one of those governed by
meteoric impulses, or given to plodding study, displayed idi-

'V

cations of high talents, and was especially distinguished for his
pnarti'al bearing in the military exercises. To these attainments
were added that cultivated wit, playful humor, and, conversa-
tional power, which ever renders a young man's society pleas-
ing and attractive; while the most graceful manners, ever easy
and deferential, made him an ornament to "any social cir-le.
Nature, too, had been liberal to the young cadet, whose figure
was tall, slight and sinewy, while his face might have been
taken by an artist as a model of manly beauty. His eyes were
full and dark, with what might have been called a tetder ex-
pression; but this feminine softness was relieved by a haughti-
ness about the lips,, which, both in their form and comprehen-
sion, gave an idea of energy and force. Snow-white teeth lent
beauty to his smile-that smile which woman loves to look
upon, for it comes from the heart. It was the heart which sent
the flushed crimsonto the cheek, while the mind lighted up the
symmetrical forehead, around which clustered his raven hair.
This smile it was that enlivened his classical features, chasing
away a sternness which at times hung over them like a thun-
der-cloud over a flower-garden in the bright July.
Of all his fellow-students, Clement preferred . a Georgian,
named Allan Clayton. Full. of enthusiasm, and possessing
great natural abilities, he could easily have been at the head of
his class, but Clayton much preferred stealing, away to the
river bank, and there passing the study hours in watching the
vessels as they glided past, while he enjoyed a fragrant Havana.
Of course, he was often reported, especially for non-attend-
ance to those details of cadet-life which he considered 'menial.
One of those was cleaning, his[ musket, and it was with some
surprise that at a monthly inspection the officer found that Ca-
det Clayton's piece was in excellent order. ,Clayton himself
wasisomewhat surprised, for he was not aware that he had used
sand-paper or rotten-stone, and the whole class were amazed to
hear, at evening parade, "Cadet Spencer is sentenced to soli-
tary confinement for twenty4our hours, for appearing at in-
spection with his musket and bayonet disgracefully dirty anid
unfit for use."
This was the subject of conversation that evening, for Clement
had always been a model for neatness and attention to duty,
* nor was it until guard-mounting the next morning that the
.mystery was solved.'

S.


1'

26

TIlE WEST- POINT CADET.

",Clayton," exclaimed one of the relieved guard
you get through inspection yesterday ?"I
"Capitally, though I don't exactly see how. Cap
sac actually complimented me on the condition my
in.

"Good I Itold the boys that you would astonish him."
"What!" exclaimed Clayton; "did you ,put my piece in
order ?"1
".Not I; but I did better."
"How?"
"Why, I took another musket from the rack, and as only the
stocks are numbered, changed barrels, bands, locks and bayo-
nets. Some poor fellow must have, had a job, for your barrel.
was actually honey-combed with rust."
Clayton rose, as if struck, and went directly to the principal,
stating this exchange, and requesting that he-u-the innocent
cause of Spencer's imprisonment--might be substnuted in his
place. The gallant colonel, delighted with this generosity of
heart, sent at once for the prisoner, and had both of the young,
men dine with him. A warm friendship immediately sprang up
between the two, aid upon obtaining their annual furlough,
they went in company to New. York, where Mr. Spencer wished'
Clement to remain a few days ere coming to Coalboro,.
Well supplied with money, the two friends plunged deep into
the dissipations of the metropolis, and the 'second night found
them at a' noted gambling house near the Park. Clement never
played at any game of chance, but. Clayton had a great fond-
ness for such sports, and as "the -sights" were to be seen, they
had put on. citizen's clothing-and gone.
It was a magnificent establishment. Costly. draperies', richly-
gilded picture-fraimes and furniture adapted for luxurious ease,
were well calculated to entice the strangers who visited the
city, while a well-set supper-table, at which several of the
choicest wits in New York were always present, hadgreat fas-
cinations' for the residents.
Clement, seeing table covered with newspapers and periodi-
cals in the first room they entered, took a seat, and told Clayton-
thdt he would read until the fifty dollars in his pocket was lost.
"Never mind," said Clayton, as he turned away, "I may
brcak the bak yet."rab

"how did
tain Haver-
musket was

per, and the next:moment the rake of one croupier was having

A

00,

I
I
I

THE WEST POINT CADET.
Edinburgh Review, when some one near remarked, in a tone,
which sounded familiar, that it was "a pleasant evening."
"Yes, sir," replied young Spencer, looking up. But he was
not able to recognize the sharp, scrutinizing glance which met
his.
"You are not playing ?" said the stranger.
"No, sir," answered Cleinent. "I have a friend who is, and
am waiting here for him.
To Clement's surprise, the stranger now inquired after Mr.
Spencer and Martha Gray, displaying pn intimate acquaintance
with Coalboro', and all the time watchifig him as a cat would
watch a mouse. At last he asked;
"by the way, what was your mother's maiden name, Mr.
Spencer 2"
The young man bit his lip through and through at. this ques-
tion, at which no offence could be taken, btit which cut him to
the very heart.
"Surely; sir," he replied at length" this is' no place for fam-
ily histories ?"
"Ah!' proceeded the stranger, "I was about to give you
some new facts relating to an interesting chapter of your own..
Pardon me. for intruding it." And with a sarcastic smile, he
bowed and left thesroom.
In vain did Clement now attempt to read, for a desire to as-
certain what the stranger knew of-his mother absorbed every
other emotion. So, throwing down the Review, he rose and
went into the next room.
It wms devoted to the game of "roulette." A machine was
on the centre of a large.table, covered with a green cloth, bear-
ing certain signs in yellow 'and red, well-known to the initiated,
-while in the centre were piles of gold. and silver, apparently
fresh from the mint  Presiding over the game were two "crou-
piers," pale from late watching, with features as* expressionless
aifcut from marble. Around the table sat the players, some
with faces seamed into an expression of tranquil cupidity, oth-
~rs so excited by their sanguine temperaments as to rejoice
vhen they won, and curse when they lost. Otherwise ae strict
silence was observed, and the very click of .the ivory ball, as it
Swas whirled around, was distinctly heard. Then came the an-
nouncement of the winning color in a voice little above a whis-

&amp;


-             I

28

THE WEST POINT CADET.

in the winnings of the bank, while the other was distributing
the gains to the fortunate.
But as neither Clayton nor the stranger was in this room,
Clement passed into the next, where groups were gathered,
around different tables, at which parties were paying with
cards or dice. Among those. using thie last mentioned, were
Clayton and-yes-young John Spencer. He had grown.taller
and stouter since he visited Coalboro', and now wore a large
black wig, but there was no mistaking the supercilious smile
that played on his thin lips as he pocketed stake -after stake.
His " run of luck was really extraordinary."
Clayton was evidently much excited, and just as his friend
approached the table, he laid down a gold eagle, saying:
"Well, here goes my last dollar."I
"I bet four to your one," replied John Spencer, with a drunk-
en chuckle, as he put on the table four similar coins, just won
from his opponent. "It's your throw."
Clayton took the dice, and,. to, his own astonishment, threw
within two of the highest number possible.
"I must beat that,"-said John Spencer. But just as he was
about to throw, he let the dice fall. Stooping, he picked them
up, rather clumsily, and threw. Six was on the upper face of
each one of the dice; again the same, andagain.
But when this extraordinary result was visilile the last time,
Clayton with a swoop seized the dice.
"Gentlemen," he said, in a determined tone, "these dice
must be examined.
" Sir !" exclaimed the stranger, "do you dare accuse the son
of John Spencer of fraud? Put down those dice !" ,
" Yes!" screamed the detected culprit, stuttering and foaming
with rage, although he turned white as a sheet. "Put down
those dice. Who are you, any how ?"
But Clayton leaned back in his chair with compressed lips,
and no othersign of emotion visible on his composed features,
saying:
" I fear neither principal nor accomplice. Let the gentlemen
present be judges."
This calmness increased the rage of John Spencer and his
friend; but those present-many of them declaring that Spen-
cer had also won their money-insisted on having the dice test-
ed. The keeper of the house was called, and he threw them.
All1 beut forward, Every one presented the highest number.

' THE WEST POINT CADET.

29

"They have been changed!" roared John Spencer. "He has
done this to injure me. Who knows him?"
"I do," said Clemeut, coming forward. "Ay, and I vouch for
his honor as a cadet and as a gentleman. You know me."
"Confound you!" exclaimed John. "You are always in my
way. )Iere, take your money." Throwing the gold just won
to. (Glayton, he left the room, the keeper of the house begging
the company not ,to take any further notice of the "unhappy
affair."
Calling for the head waiter, Clayton told him to share the
fifty dollars among the servants of the establishment, and they
left. Traversing the Park, they were about entering the then
fashionable hotel called " Washington Hall," where they put up,
when a man. wrapped in a cloak came towards them, and when
just opposite Clement,hissed out, "You are good at recognizing
people; would you remember your mother ?"
Turning, as if shot, he chased the man, but in vain. Yet he
felt confident that it was' the stranger whom he had met at the
gaming-house. Alas! was this fatal secret ever to hang over
him like an incubus?

CHAPTER VI.
LOVE AND HATRED.

AFTER remaining in New York a few days, during which the
cadets neither saw nor heard from John Spencer, Jr., they left
for Coalboro', where they were received by Mr. Spencer with a
hearty welcome. The old gentleman had heard of his godson's
high position at the academy, to which he was by no means in-
sensible, and Martha Gray, now confined to her room by old
age, received "her boy " with tears of joy. Entertainments
were given on every hand, and the wearers of the neat'gray
uniforms made a deep impression upon many a fair heart. Cloy-
ton was a professed flirt, but in vain did bright eyes shed their
softest rays at the approach of Mr. Spen'cer's heir, while* the
mamas saw that all the, artillery of th.ir daughters' coquetry
was called forth and properly aimed.  voted to his studies,
Clement's mind-kingdom of pleasant thoughts had yet preserved
itself from the invasion of these conquering "granny-dears "

0     #

'i~ ,.,'.

t*  *

4
'1;

A

4.


THE WEST POINT CADET.

who urged, forward their "light-troops " against the parapets of
marriageable young men's affections, and, amid the tumult
which they raise, often manage to let the besiegers into the
citadels of the besieged heart. Once there, capitulation is
inevitable.
Often, during this pleasant visit, did Clement long for an op-
portunity to seek an explanation as to his own history from
Mr. Spencer.. But Claytoii was generally with him, and no it
occasion presenting itself, he returned to West Point no wiser
than he came.                       0-
The very day after their arrival at West Point, they were
summoned before the principal,who showed them an anony-
mous letter, stating that they had not only visited a gambling-
house while at New York, but had become engaged in a dis-
graceful brawl- while there.
Clayton immediately gave a correct version of the affair, not
concealing the fact that he had played, but exculpating his
friend.
"Well, well," said the colonel; "the letter has no signature,
aud therefore cannot be considered-a complaint of which I can
take official cognizance. But don't let me learn any more such
stories of your adventures."
The young men thanked him cordially, and withdrew, vowing
vengeance against the anonymous informer. That it was young
John Spencer, neither entertained a doubt.
It was soon the season for the annual visit of the Board of
Visitors, and the hotel was filled with fair representatives of al-
most every State, either relatives of members of the board, or
of some cadet. The observed of all observers in this galaxy of
beauty, was Miss Ida, daughter and heiress of Robert Patterson,
of New York, who had been appointed a member of the board.
He was a millionaire, the architect of his own fortune; and with
him all things, both divine and human, were subservient to
money-making. Indeed, it was his boast that though a laborer's,
son, he was born to make a fortune-that is, he was born with-
out a soul, and had he earned but sixpence .a day, he would
have saved but half of it.
His career at school was characteristic, for even the presents
of marbles which he occasionally received from fhis playmates
Were carefully hoarded, up, and then. sold back to them as occa7
sion offered. Entering a mercantile house as-an erraind-boy, he

I

THE WEST POINT CADET.

3I

had crowded his way to its head-despised, yet useful, and.not
hated because he had not spirit enough toquarrei Beginning
'life without4 a cent of capital, ie was now master of a colossal
fbrtune- which he frequently doubled by, lending sumns-ofrit at a
large interest, upon the best security. Indeed he had sought
the appointment of a member of the Board of Visitors, because'
it would enable him to bring his only daughter to West Point,
where she could recruit her health without any extra expense.
Such was the father; but 0, how different was the daughter,
now in the flrst- dawn of beauty. Her mother was a French
countess, who had' fled from Paris when her first husband had
been brought to the guillotine by. Robespierre, bringing the
Wreck of her fortune in letters of credit for a considerable sum
on Mr.. Patterson. le, as the easiest way of paying them, mar-
ried her, and really treated her with great kindness. This he
transferred to her babe, Who was- left motherless at an early
ge, and who was thenceforth her father's idol. For his credi-
tors, or for poor suppliants for his charity, he had no- mercy, but
his daughter Ida he indulged in the fantasies of her childhood,
and then in the desires of her girlhood, until, at the age of sev-
enteen, she had never known disappointment. Her life had been
all sunshine, and love was yet a stranger to her breast.
She was aiiagelic-creature, Clemert Spencer thought, when
he first saw her.~ Her patrician features were small and regu-
lar, cut in the most exact.proportion, yet so clearly defined that.
to gaze-on'the Grecian nose and arching upper lip, one might
have fancied traces of 'sonme sculptor's chisel before the mad-
iieis of passion had wished the lovely statue into life. Her eyes
were deep blue, so deep that when shaded by their' drooping
eyelashes they appeared almost black, as they sparkled with
gaiety or melted into-tenderness. Her hair was-of that precious
shade' -of auburn- -which seems to catch the sunbeams, and from.
her.,mot   she inherited the- graceful elastic form that had
made a long line of ancestresses renowned, even at the court of
Versailles. Ther  was nought of heaviness about it; all the
graceful deliikcy reinained;: while- the tiny foot, the well-pro-'
portioned waist, and the small, plump hand, 'but added2 to the
charm of her symmetrical yet well-developed form.
.Her features,.unsuccessful wooers said, were too passive, as 'if'
the currents of her existence' were to be stirred by their-vapid
nonsense. They said, too-those 'flatterimig gold-hunters-that'
she was fair and cold as the' polar night, and that theirs was the

I

t~'"

t
~'

Z,


32

-ITE WEST POINT CADET.

fate of those navigators who seek to find an Arctic sea of re-
pose. But they little knew what warm passion looked covertly
forth from her eyes, those windows of the soul, whose light be-
lied the scornful arching of her lips. True, she cared little for
her suitors, or for those around her in society. Her conscious-
ness that there was more in life than was dreamed of in the hol-
low philosophy of the hollow' world, made her shrink from the
foibles of fshionable life, and. from those who found in such a
life all their aspirations fulfilled. Her father's society-,was all
she co-veted, nor could she imagine any one superior to him, or
capable of promoting her happiness. When with him, the cold
sneer vanished from her lips, and a. sunlight smile danced -over
her features like an embodied joy, or nestled cosily in the di-
ples of her cheeks.
One of Mr. Patterson's most fortunate investments had been
in the Coalboro' Mining Company, and believing that young
Clenient Spencer was the son and heir of the energetic presi-
dent, he looked upon the young cadet with great favor. He
was almost a daily visitor at the hotel, and although he gazed
at Ida almost unceasingly when in her presence, he never
sought to attract her attention to himself. Oftentimes, in the'
midst of a lively conversation with a. gay throng of admirers,
would Ida pause and listen as the sounds of Clement's voice fell
upon her ear, and soon she not only listened, but sought oppor-
tunities to engage him in conversation. The value of his mind
was easily apparent as contrasted with the frivolous votaries of,
fashion who circled around to laud her beauty, and though.,
Clement never complimented her, she did not doubt his appre-
ciation of her charms.
Mr. Patterson appeared deliglited with the intimacy between
the young people, and with his full approbation they soon began.
to take lzng strolls, visiting scenes around West Point that are
not Acadian, only because those haunts of old were less grad
and magnificent. But the dreamylanguor of the summer hours
had the same benign and softening influence, and this Atlantic
Temnpe, with its crags and valleys, its pools and waterfalls, and
a mightier river than Peneus gliding along its verdant and bat-
tiemented steeps, wras the very place (like the divine, Egei-ia of
ancients),to awaken the feeling of love in the 'hearts of the
young. A bright moon was not without its influence, throwing
its elfin beams upon the broad parad, .while the famous band
discoursed martial strains, or turning into silver leaflets the

I
I

THE WEST POINT CADET.

foliageof Kosciusko's-garden. Poets may tell of infantilejoy at
play,'or of the tranquil serenity of honored old 'age, but on
earth there is not a ray of bliss .to be compared. to that which
love-linked hearts feel in moonlight promenades. -Then it is
that young lovers might wish that mortality was lmmortal,-
then it is that they regard earth as a paradise, aiid care not for
a brighter or purer heaven,
Of course, it was soon rumored about that Cadet Spencer.had
made a favorable impression on the great heiress, and the news
was not long in reaching New York, where John Spencer, Sr.,
heard it on 'change. The same morning he received intelli-
gence that a shipment of flour had resulted in a loss of some
ten thousand dollars, and when he reached home he was not in
a very amiable state of mind. He found his family at dinner,
and, to add fresh fuel to his wrath, the -meats were cold.
"Well, John," he at last -growled out, "-when did you see
that Patterson girl?"
" Just before she left for West Point," said the unsuspecting
young man. "I hope, sir, I can have a pair of fast trotters to
take her to ride with when she comes back."
"You'd better-you'd better. Wouldn't you like me to get a
house for you to treat her to, and furnish it at that ?"
"Why, how generous you are I" exclaimed Mrs. Spencer.
"Why not promise me a new carriage now, also ?"
"Fiddlesticks, ma'am! Htimbug I Here I've been spending
money like water to bring about this match, and after all, my
young gentleman can't shine. He has beat the bush, but an-
other hand has caught the bird ?"
"Who, sir ?" eagerly inquired John, turning very red.
"Who? Who do you suppose? Why,.the Right Honorable
Clement Spencer, Jr., who first housed you out of your uncle's
property, aid now has taken the rich bride you have fished for
so hard."
The young man felt no beart-regret, for he was not capable
of loving so pure a creature as jIda Patterson, and had only
pretended to be paying his court to her 'that he might draw
larger supplies of money for the gratification of, h~is dissipated
tastes. But to think that Clement shquld Again step before him
was unendurable.
. ~" I will go to West Point to-night !" he exclaimed.
" Stop a moment," plausibly remarked Professor Pike. " You
remember once having, a slight misunderstanding with one Qf
.3                     -

SA

for"
V
pql
ht"

4 ,


(S*1

I.
T~E WEST PQU~T CAbET.

84       -.   . Tlt wIsT rOmT CADET.
this fellow's brother cadets, and you know those desperadoes
always make common cause. I. haie often thought about this
interloper, and it really seems to me that it is necessary, and at
the same time pecuniarily advantageous, that he should be set
back as the saying is. Made to take his place as a foundling,
and not be thwarting the&amp; wishes and interests of our, first
families."
Ah, professor," said Mrs. Spencer, "them are just my ideas."
'And mine,"chimed in young John.
"Ditto-ditto! I endorse over all," remarked John, senior,
"and will underwrite the expenses to any amount under a
thousand dollars, if the thing is well done."
"I will leave for West Point without delay," ,answered the
delighted professor, whe saw a chance to gratify his hatred, and
to make what 'he' could appropriate of the sum. "The matter
must be looked to without delay, for as Shakspeare says, 'If 'tis
to be done, when 'tis done, then 'tis well 'twere done quickly.' "
While they sat, concocting diabolical schemes for the dis-
grace of the young cadet, there was a loud knocking at the
door, and soon a messenger from Coalboro' was ushered in,
who brought important tidings. He had been ordered to pro-
ceed to West Point, but Professor Pike promptly remonstrated,
saying that he would carry the message, and should leave in the
morning.
So it was agreed that both of the John Clements should re-
turn with the messenger to Coalboro', and that Professor Pike
and Mrs. Spencer should go to West Point. Cunning ,piders
of humanity, how  they chuckled as they laid the meshes of
their web of crime .
CHAPTER VIL.
sTuhmLanT AN~D SHADOW-..
Tot next evening witnessed the annual ball at West Point,
a scene of festivity much talked of beforehand, expected With
.as -mtee and attended by every one who had any posi-
tion ormcnntieneon that could secure an invitation. The Board
of Visitors and the officers of the academy were all there; not
a cadet was absent. N~ew York sent up a large quota of belles

THE .WEST PINO ICAETI
and. young men of. no particular occupation, while all the
towns about. were well represented, Beauty, diamonds and
uniforms. seemed to. vie with each other in brilliancy, honeyed
words were murmured by irresistible voices in charmed ears,
and the unequalled band, led by Willis and his bugle, poured
out a continued flood of the Y'ichest and most. inspiring har-
mony.
What imparted interest to this fascinating scene, was the fact
among the officers present, several were "under orders " for
the far West, to engage for years in hostilities with'the treach-
erous savages. How uncertain were the chances that they
would for long years ever enjoy- such pleasures again-nay,
many a gallant heart that then beat in, unison to .the :sweet
strains might soon be. cold and still-many a bright eye that
gazed tenderly and kindly would consequently be dimmed and
tearful! Yet every one seemed disposed to enjoy themselves;
the floor vibrated beneath the feet of those who joined, in the
mazes of the dance; vigilant mothers were kept busy In decid-
ing upon the "elegibility " of partners; and that wine of the,
heart which ripens on the sunny plains of Champagne, was
quaffed i libations to the success of the graduating class in
particular, with many other general toasts.
Ida Patterson and Clement Spencer were Conspicuous among
the throng; both were exquisite dancers, and the grace of their
movements, not less than. her Irresistible loveliness and his.
manly beauty, attracted general admiration. Yet neither cared
for the gay scene, and when the guests went out on the parade-
ground at midnight to hear the band play "Auld Lang Syne"
-in accordance with the time-honored custom of those days,-
the enraptured pair insensibly directed their steps to the pic-p
turesque retreat know as Kosciusko's garden.
This romantic spot lies nestled_ upon the face of the river-
bank, like a dimple upon the cheek of a lovely woman, and Is.,
embosomed in thiek foliage, formin-g a framework forth clear
fountain coscae by the Polish hero's memory. It was as
quiet as the grave, calm as an angel's heart, and illumined by the
peaceful rays of a full,overhanging moon.. The night breeze
scarcely stirred the trees; the snowy sails of the passing sloops
loomed up in the moonlight like colossal spirits, as they noise-
lessly glided on their liquid path, and the only sound was. dur-
ing the transit of a steamboat, its cqurge marked by a waving
canopy of meteor-like sparks, pid by the undulating track

II 1.

1

,

1
(~k

14,

.1


TIU-WEST POINT CADET.
*lch it left behindin weic- the sioops dipped andrckd asif
doing reveittai ormage to the giants of th0 wivs.
Seating tlieliselves in this retreat, Olerent and his ir com-
panion spokeof the beauties of nitnre so lavishlyspread around
t-hem, but the'canversation soon ceased for there was another
gnd a dominant idea i each heart; appy couple !   They
vere not skilled in analyzing their affection-they only felt its
power, and bowdd to it and enj oyed it-yes, enjoyed it. For
what earthly"enjyment chn compete with the affection of"
fouthftil and unpratitised- hearts, who love with all the sincerity
nd- simplicity of natuiire, and with that intensity never experi-'
0need-by those whose feelings are hackneyed It is the golden
6ge of humai eisteisce, that season of first love,'b"ut, alas! it
passes ai speedily as the fabled one of the world has done.,
A glorious subject f&amp;iia painter wouldit have been to poray
that'gallant cadet, with genial sincerity beandag from his true
eyes, turning from the beautiful scene ai-ound to gaze upon a
countenauce brighter than the moonlight and gentle? than the
zephyr br-eeze. Ida, sitting in eloquent silence-more eloquent
than idle words, with her long eyelashes drooped on her flushed
cheek, where: glowed the hue 6f the rosebul when it feels the
warmth of early spring yet dai-es not open its leaves. Glorious
monient toewoman is it tabia she first loves; foi- its inibuence
colors her thenceforward existence. Man, who vows, cant -vow
againr. Womah~, wVho keep the vow he breathes, can never
believe again 'if her credulity is mocked, for the ver esee of
love is belief.
Their eyes met, and'Clement felt the fal fore of that resist-
less emotion, whose pervading influence sways with oiie comn-
nion-impulse all animal ife. Clasping her gentle hand, he pas-
sionately exclaimed: "Ida, I love you!"
She was silent;' hdr'whole form tremnbled -with emotion, and
glistieninig tears;'fowhih she 'was unconscious stole down her
ezquisifelf beautint fade.i Leuhing forward, she bent her eyes
upoir flenentitd seemtedfo hold her breath that' shte might
dfinitii ever-y tone of ills veice.-
Clement;yvaliant with affection,: told his love in lirried yet
nearest tones. He told her how, since he had seent her,'a new
feeling had taken possession of his soul, ptoddking an attach-
nent which words coulnot express-that- shitIas the sunlight
of' his life, lighting up what before was dark, aid endowing

everything around wfth the effalgence of a dream; better had

TUE 'WEST POINT CADET

OT

she ever Inspired such an attachment. than he should be awak-
ened from such a dream-a dream of more than earthly happi-'
ness, for he had madly dreamed that she reciprocated 1 his feel-
ings, and would love him in return.
He paused, but she did not reply; she could not. The sweet
moment had come that her heart had yearned for, yet, her whole
frame quivering with emotion, her lips failed to utter the words
of her heart's framing. Yet her silence was nature's language
-inimitable by the feigning pretender, yet easily interpreted by
the instinctive sagacity of him who felt that he was the cause of
.the lack of speech.' The gentle pressure of her-hand was more
eloquent than language, and' although no vow came from her
tremulous lip, Clement felt that the promise had been given' in
her heart-ay, and that its record had been entered in the un-
blotted volume of the recording 'angel. Full of joy, and hope
and confldenc% he clasped her to his heart.
"Ida-dearest Ida," he exclaimed, "say that I can call you
mine!"
He felt her heart beat wildly against his own, as she mur-
mured:
"Yes, yes-yours until death!"
Raising her face towards his, he saw the truth at the bottom
of- her well-like eyes, and sealed the pledge of love by burning
kisses upon her yielding lips, until-maiden modesty regaining"
it* sway-she gently disengaged herself.
"K ay !" whispered Clement, drawing' her closer to him, and
gazing. as if he almost doubted his own senses. But when Ahe
returned his ardent kiss, -with a sudden iqX~pulse, and. then
broke from his embrace, he felt that it was  ong to detain her
longer,. and sat down calmly by her .side, upon the marble
fountain.
There-they remained for an hour, their thoughts pure as the
crystal water at their side, while the rays of the moon gleamed
upon them through the dark trees,, like smiles of hope contend-
iag withthe shades of sorrow upon the brow of humanity. H
told her of his mountain home, of his indulgent-gxdfather-f
his hopes of glory, and ever through his wordabrie, like a sil'
ver thread, ran a heart-wish that she might share hif lot--mnight:.
be at his side in the future life-visions of love.,
Joyous to'.Ida. Patterson was this burning eloquence of pi
sion--opening 'ofa new world through the doors ofbher neIk-
ed:heart. So 'she listened, and smie4 and kitly murmured

I
LA
.1

j

e7

V


'I.

THE:WEST POINT CADET.

TIIE 'WEST POINT CADET.

'I
V

assents,. and felt, happier than she had ever felt befote.. The
sweet tones of Clement's musical voice, tremulous With passion,
found their way to her inmost soul; nor did a doubt, or a fear,
block up the avenue of her enjoyment. It was the golden mo-
ment of her life, and willing was she to surrender the flower of
her affections, her sympathies, her unclouded nature, and her
unsullied purity. Her heart, like that of heir lover, was well'
prepared by previous absence of all ardent emotions, to become
completely absorbed at once by the all-conquering passion.
Each- alike yielded to the rapturous invasion.
A.discordant sound disturbed their happy thoughts.
"Never mind," said, Clement; "the ball is over, and the
younger cadets are indulging in their usual revelry of a bur-
lesque parade."
."The ball over I" exclaimed -Ida, blushing deeply. "Let us
hurry back to the hotel. I hope we have not been missed, for
I so detest scandal."
"Not more than I do, loved one. But it may be well to re-
turn." - And-they left that romantic spot, to which each was
thenceforth to look back as an oasis on the great arid desert of
life. A few moments more, and they parted at the door of the
hotel, now -deserted by the merry throng.
As Clement Spencer. turned away, the well-known voice of
Clayton called him:
"Look here, old fellow, I am detai16d to bring you to Hal
WilkisonI's room, and have no idea of having been made to
wait here' an hour-no cigar at that-without carrying you,
along in triumph."
Now the happy lover would much rather have retired to the
solitdicle of his own quarters, there to recall the joys of the even-
ing, but he could not refuse the invitation, he well knew, with-
out giving offence. So he'took Glayton's arm, -and they were
s9on welconied with cheers at the festive board.- It was a choice
galas~y.of good spirits then and there assembled, many of them.
sigeie distinguished in their country's service, but at thattime
notedjfgr ad pranks and jovial revelry. Songs, stories, toasts
and jests were poured f#11th- as profusely as the wine; norwa
it to, be swondered. at that as the fun grew more boisterous, some
evidences of intoxication became evident.
Prominent among those' whose thickened. utterances and
flushmd faees gave token. of their too copious libations,a was a
eqa~ceited ypung esdet frosn ENew Y ork city, known among his

comrade. as Count Discount. His father was a wealthy broker
in     street, and the liberal supplies of money. enjoyed by the
ison made him an object of envy, while it magnified his self-
importance until it often became offensive. He had been a
great admirer of Ida Patterson in the city, and when she had
come to West Point e endeavored to. monopolize her. She,
however, soon gave h m to understand that she did not wish to
receive any attention from him, and this considerate nipping of
his affection in the bad had rankled in his beclouded heart
since.
The healths of several ladies were drank with uproarious
applause, when Clayton thoughtlessl proposed that of M'IsS
Patterson."
"Stop I" hiccupped Wilkinson, in an ironical tone. "I could
tell you something about that paragon of prudery which might.
make you all wish to toast a bumper."
"What is it ?" asked several voices.
Why, the dear creature cut us all at the ball, and then stole
off to Kosciusko's garden to enjoy a confidential flirtation."
"Who with ?" asked a thoughtless cadet.
"With a gray coatee," said Wilkinson, turning his insolent,
drunken leer upon'Clement Spencer, "and with a cadet in its"
Spencer's cheeks tingled with rage, but he maintained his
self-possession.
Perhaps," continued Wilkinson, with a sarcastic curl of his
lip, "those interested in this paragon of perfection will call up-
on Cadet Spencer."
9'5Gentlemen may not thus wish to have a lady's name intro-
daced here," calmly replied Spencer, to whom all eyes were
directed.
Those who kiss never tell," was the provoking response.
Wilkinson, this has gone far enoughI" exclaimed Spencer,
and several crowded around the drunken man, hoping to pacify
him. But it was of no avail.
I'll tell, though!I" he shouted, in a shrill voice. "You kiss-
ed Ida Patterson, and she-
Ere he could finish the sentence, Spencer sprang towards him,
and with -a blow levelled him to the ground. Then turning
towards his friend, he said, with no sign of emotion:
"Let us go, Clayton. Of course you will receive any mes-
8age which this prying slanderer chooses to send me." And
amidst the expressed applause of almost every opne pr sent, he

38:

'I

r

I._______
P_____

I

4


40

THE WEST POINT CADET.

I

.r

0

CHAPTER VIII.
DEAT[AND DEFIANCE.

ONWARD-onWard hastened young Clement Spencer, impa-
tient to see him who had ever shown him a parent's love. The
stage stopped for the night some twenty miles distant- froin
Coalboro', but he obtained a horse, and lhastened over the moun--
taina, sick-at heart, and with the bitter tears of agony at times
bursting from his aching eyes. His horse was a'strong one, but
hardly able to endure the pace at which- he was, urged, with
whip, spur and voice, over the craggy hills. Already had, his
soul reached'the home of his youth, but around hi6- barely visi-.
ble in the misty moonlight, were barren rock, and dwarfedpines,
as his body pursued its laborious transit. Eagerly did he look
forward through the dim distance, and at last-joyfulsight even
to his sad spirit-were the lights of his childhood's home.

I

'

THE WEST-POINT- CADET.

41

left the room, feeling that he1.had' acted as a man..of honor'
should act under such circumstances.
Arriving at his own-quarters, he saw a stranger,,. yet started,
at the tones of a voicewhich sounded familiarly.
"I am Professor-Pikej sir,:wIra was at Coalboro' with, young
Mr. John Spencer. His father,,Mr. John -Spencer, seniorfhas
received news that Mr. Clement Spencer is dangerously ill--"
"Ill? What is the, disorder ?" interrupted Clenient.
"He -caught cold while attending .the funeral. of.;a servant-
woman named Gray. His brother hAs gone to see him, and
thought that youshould.know it. SoI have come here express-
ly tolet you know."
Luckily for the sorrow-stricken young man, his friend Clay-
ton came along just. then, and tookhim. under-his- harge. ByT
his efforts, leave' of absence was obtained immediately from the
kind-hearted colonel in command, and the. morningboat from'
Newburg took Clement to.New-York. He:felt a 4ad presenti-
ment that his god-father would breathe iis last. ere, he could
reach'CoAlboro'; but amid all his gloomy thiaghts. camue the-
tones of Professor Pike's voice. Where had he heardit .?

I

:2

A light was visible in'the room which Mr. Spencer used as an
office, but of that Clement took little heed, as he jumped from
his exhausted horse, and rushed into the house. Everything
seemed quiet, so different from the commotion which thoughts
of his protector's death had been producing in his own heart
during the ride, and hope again beat within his breast. Hasten-
ing up stairs, he stood for a moment at the door of his god-
father's chamber. -All was quiet- within. Cautioiely opening
the door, he-saw by a dim taper the old nian lying, as he -thought,
quietly asleep, and tiptoed so gently to the bedside that the
drowsy attendant did not hear him. A pleasant smile softened
the emaciated yet well-known features; but when -the- young
man touched his lips gently to those which had expressed so
much love for him, he kissed a corpse..
The old man was lifeless. He was in the diamber of death.
Everything in the room swam around with a whirl; there was
a cry of deep, deep anguish, and Clement Spencer, now the only
one of that name, fell senseless on the floor.
"What's the matter?" cried old John Spencer, who soon
rushed into the room, white with fear, and followed by his son.
"Master Cleinent has fainted," said Mrs. Egan, who at once
recognized the child of her fostering, and endeavored to restore
him to' consciousness.
"lHe needn't have scared us so," growled young John, who
had evidently been much alarmed.
" Never mind-never mind," said .his father. "He'll have
something to faint about soon. But where's that Egan W"
"My husband " asked the woman, who was kneeling by
Clement and chafing his temples. "I hope he is doing nothing
.n
"No-ah! here-he comes. Take this fainted fellow, Egan,
and car y him up stairs. Your wife will show you some spare
room, 'if you don't know -one. Then come down to us'"
"Yes, sir," replied Egan. "I got the lock picked just a-
you-
" Silence !" thundered John Spencer. Then with an express-
ive gesture he left the room, followed by his son.
" Meredith," said the kneeling woman, " for years have you
abused me, yet I have not complained. But now; on my knees
between that dead old man and this young one, almost my child,
who lies on the very edge 'of death, I pray you to do no
wrong."

IAt

I

1-'

i

:         '


THE WEST POINT CADETS

a

THE WIEST POINT CADET.

The man stood as if irresolute, with his eyes cast down, and
strong passions evidently at play within his breast.
Him there weren't kind to me," he said; "he put me in the
county jail."
Why, Meredith ? Was it not in the hope.'of reforminig you
-of weaning you from the demon of intemperance ? O, Mere-
dith, for the sake of our happy young days among the hills of
Wales, do not wrong to-night.".
I bent a doing wrong, lass; I'm only opening the gent's
trunk, that he came away without the key of. Come, let's carry
the young fellow up to bed. Dear me, how large and fine-look-
ing,,he's grown !"
"Ay, he's far different from the child handed. me by Martha
Gray, poor woman. Her last talk was of him."
"And did she know who his mother was ?"
No. I asked her oft and again, and I feel sure that she did
not know. But I think she felt sure that Mr. Spencer'did."
Come!" called a loud voice from down stairs. "Why not
take that chap to bed, and come down here ?"W
Coming, sir," replied Meredith. Then muttering to himself,
he said_ "Were you more civil, you might get more for your
money."~
Removed to his own room,'Clement gradually recovered con-
sciousness, And was acquainted by his nurse with the sad par-
ticulars of Mr. Spencer's fatal illness. He had taken cold while
attending the funeral of poor Martha Gray (who had died of
sheer old age), and seemed to sink at once into the arms of
death.
He sent for you, Clement," continued the faithful nurse,
and seemed anxiously to, wait your coming. Hour after hour
would he inquire for you, and when-at last his brother came arid
told him that you would not start until after some great ball, he
seemed to lose all hope. For hours he lay in a stupor. 'Then
opening his eyes, he asked: 'Has Clement come?' 'No,' re-
plied his brother; 'but here is my son John, your nephew.'
'No, no,' feebly ejaculated Mr. Spencer. ' I want Clement.'-.
And murmuring your name again and again, he sank gently
into his death-sleep. 0, 'twas such a pity that you could not
have been here at once, instead of stopping for that ball !"
"Nurse Egan," said Clement, in a firm tone, " did I not. .-
ways speak the truth when a child ?"
"You did, God less you!",

42

43

"And I have since. 'Never-I swear It by him who li4s dead
below us-did I hear of my dear godfather's sickness until after
the ball, and I came here as fast as man could come. -Alas that
I was too late P"
"You have been sadly belied, Clement. Never mind; they'll
go away soon."
"And may   y curse go with them. Now, my dear nurse, go
to bed. I wil watch by' the remains of my kind protector."
"But no. You are tired, and need rest."
"There is no rest for atroubled heart," was Clement's reply;
and he carried Iis point.
,4  -
Returning to' the chamber of death, he 'drew a chair to the
bedside, and there he sat until the funeral hour, heedless of all
around him. At times,, in accordance with the earnest entrea-
ties of his nurse, he would partake of slight refreshment, but
hasten back to his Vigil-post, as if stern duty called him there.
Company he had in those pleasant features composed in death.
Since his earliest recollection had they smiled upon him; but
now the bond was snapped, the silver cord was broken. "'One
was taken and the other left." And of all the thoughts that
flitted through the young watcher's mind, was the sad reflection
that,' if the departed friend' before him knew the secret of his
birth, those cold lips could never confide it. It must 'be buried
with him, and with it would be buried many a cherished
hope.
The hour appointed for the burial arrived, and for the first
time since his arrival, Clement saw John Spencer and his son,
each assuming a hypocritical air of sadness. They wept, or pre-
tended'to weep, as they took their.last look at 'the placid fea-
tures of their deceased relative, but Clement displayed his 'sor-
row by' no paroxysm of grief. His countenance was fixed'and
rigid', but a close observer of nature could see that the bitter
fountains of his' heart were unsealed, and as heimprinted a last
kiss upon that pale brow, tears fell uponit like the dew of heaven.
An immense multitude attended the last sorrowful rites, with
silence, and with reverence, for the deceased 'was looked upon as
the parent of the flourishing community which had grown up
since his discovery. There was no muffled drum .or mournful
)ageantry, but far more impressive ant effect ive was the peace-
ful sadness which brooded over the town, and the solemn grief
expressed on the countenances of the hundreds who wer-e group-
ed around the grave, when earth was mingled wit earth.


44          TiE Wm T -PO21f T-,- AJD

Returning to t4,e house,.no longer maile sacred bythe presence
-of death, ClementJw IMreenieg to the'solitude  f his own
chamber, w1en he heArd the harp voice of M.rSpencer calling
his name.
Come in here, you, sir," continued the merchant. "I wish
to have a chat with you."
Mechanically, obeying, Clement entered the room, where he
sayw two awyers: of the place, 'and the Spencers. The father
smiled on him beignantly, but.the sn's features wore an air of
triumph.
"Well, sir," said the elder Mr. Spencer, " I have called you in
to ask youif you have any knowledge of a will having ever been
made by 'my brother."
Shocked ptothis inquiry, made ere the sod had been placed on
the grave of his benefactor, element simplyreplied.:
"I have not."
"Good!" exclaimed young John, a smile of malicious satis-
faction playing over his countenancee'
"Silence, my son !" said the fther. "I know how you, in
common with myself, have smarted under the reflection that this
young man has wormed himself into the heart of my deceased
brother. Nay, I admit that I had expected to fid that he had
extorted some testamentary provision. But you, gentlemen,
have examined de desks of my brother, and -I understand you
to say that you find no will."
The lawyers nodded assent, and he continued:
"Now the young man himself disclaims knowledge. of any
writing which gives hiu the least claim upon the estate, on
which, as next of kin, my son will administer. Is it notso, M-in
Clement Spencer ?" .
Clement tood silent and amazed. Looking alternately at
those nm the room with him, as if anxious to ,haravel teisd
thoughts, his blood coursed rapidly through his veins, his eyer
glared, and he appeared like the incarnation of a thuud(er-cloud-
" Speak out," gruffly exclaimed the elder Mr.. Spencer," or
hold your peace forever! Did you not s:ty that you had no
knowledge of the existence of any will ?"
"I did,"answered Clement, his heart almost ready to burst
with anger.yk
" Well, sir," continued the old merchant, "although, as I be-
fore remarked, you have made yourself a barrier between my
deceased brother and his legitimate relatives, I harbor you no

4.4

THE WEST POINT CADET..4.
ill-wilI. You can remain In this house a few days, if you wish,
and can take away what you probably regard as your own per-
sonal effects.,,
" What!" exclaimed Clement. "You give me permission to
remain in the house where I have passed the most -of my life,
cherished by its owner, who ever regarded you with contempt-
--brother of his though you were!"
" You hear this," blandly remarked the old merchant, appeal,
ing to the lawyers. "You can tell the misguided young main
too, what right he may have to remain here an-instant, without
the permission of my son here, whois his uncle's administrator.
" Catch me giving it to himi1" muttered young Spencer.
"SilenceI1" Interpoed his father. "Let us hear what th
young Man has to say now."
"Sir," 'esponded Clement, in a voice that slightly trembled,
yet was manly amidst emotion, "I suppose it is so,fnor will I
remaain another night beneath this roof. You boast that, you
have possession, but mark, the day of retribution wil come."
"Hush, hush, young man I Don't be rash. My son and my-
self will befriend you, and you have agood situation for hoprove-
ment at West Point. I intend to remit you a hundred dollars
per quarter until you graduate."
"John Spencer," proudly replied the cadet, "I am almost a
bear ; yet could I coin every copper of that hundred dollars
nto a golden eagle, I would spurn it as I spurn it now."
One of the lawyers, who had known Clement from boyhood,
endeavored to expostulate with him, but in vain.
" Never mind, sir," said he. "I am young, vigorous and capa-
-ble of braving the world's sneers-at poverty. But the day may
come-as I pray to Heaven it may-when justice shall be exe-
cuted, and those now exultantly perched:on. the top offprtune's
wheel-shallifind themselves neper that low level to whiCh you
consign me."
With these wordshe left the apartment, pahed up the few
souvenirsiun his room-the room in -which hehiad spent so many
happy hours, and left the house. That afternoon he started on
-his return to West Point, sent forth gn the highway of life as he
had been whose -wealth the John Spencers now clutched.


46

TI WXtST POINT CADMT

'CHAPTER IX.

WEALTH VERSUS MERIT.

Tim mansion of Mr. Patterson was the most magnificent in
New York. FurniIshed in the most sumptuous manner with
everything that wealth could supply, there was one room that
gave especial evidence of a refined yet capricious taste. Occu-
pying the entire front of the third story, its windows opened
upon a balcony which overlooked the then fashionable Battery,
and commanded a view of the magnificent harbor. Within, the
windows were decorated with curtains of rose-colored damask
and embroidered white muslin, while the walls were hung with
a pearl-colored paper, studded with golden figures. The, Brus-
sels carpet was so thick that io' footsteps on it could be heard;
embroidered tapestries covered the luxuriously-cushioned
lounges, and above the polished marble mantel was an immense
French mirror. A few pencil sketches, in carved walnut frames,
decked the walls; an inlaid bookcase was well filed with poetry
and romance, and on a large centre-table was a confused mass of
newspapers, ornamented needlework, periodicals, music, and the
latest fashion-plates.
It was Ida's boudoir; and as she sat there, turning over the
pages of General Morris's "Mirror " (then in its glory), it ap.
peaked a fit shrine for one so lovely. She wore a simple morn--
ing-dress, and a tiny cap partially enclosed the masses of her hair,
while on-a footstool reposed her tiny feet, which Cinderella
would have envied., But those tiny feet beat impatiently, show..
ing that she was ill at-ease, and her lips contracted into what
might almost hive been called a pout. For the first time in her
life, the petted favorite had been crossed in her wishes. Her
father had taken her from West Point on the very morning that
Element Spencer had left,-although they took different boats,
and she had not received any answer to a tiny note which she
had left for him. "Why," she thought, "has he taken no notice
of it ?"
The door was opened somewhat abruptly, and her father
entered-an unusual honor. A stern, vexed frown was on his

.1

4

countenance, and she knew before he spoke that he, toowas
"out of sorts."
"Ida," said he, energetically," I wish to have a talk with you."
'Which you can have," was the reply. "Sit down here."
"Ida, you are getting old."
"Not old enough to wear glasses, though," said the unsus-
pecting and light-hearted girl, with a merry laugh.
"But old enough to marry, though, Ida, and I have a husband
to propose to you. How would you like to be Mrs. Spencer.?"
"Father!" ejaculated Ida, her cheek and brow burning.
"Yes-Mrs. Spencer. I have received a letter this morning
from old John Spencer (he's not much older than I am, though),
in which he says that his son, young John, has inherited all the
property of a deceased uncle, and is now worth a quarter of a
million. This being the case, he asks me for your hand.''
"What! John Spencerasks'my hand ?"
"Yes I thinkhe is calculated to make you a good husband."
"I marry John Spencer! Ha, ha, haI" Throwing her head
back, the young girl, gave a nervous, metallic laugh, that echoed
through the room.
Nay, don't be so trifling, Ida."
"Father," she exclaimed, her mouth contracted to a ruby ring,
and her eyes dilated, "are you not jesting "
"I never was more earnest in my life. He Is wealthy, well
connected, and I think a good match."
For a moment Ida's lips faltered, then the deep scarlet of her
face died away in- a deeper pallor.
"Can I write his father that you look with favor upon the
proposition ?"
"Jrather," said she, with an exertion that again brought the
bright scarlet in a flood across her countenance, "I would rather
die than marry that ignorant, vulgar wretch. That is my an-
swer to-day, that would have been my answer yesterday, that
will be my answer to-morrow-forever!"
Never had Mr. P4tterson seen evidences of any such determined
spirit in his daughter, and he gazed at her with astonishment.
" You are rash, Idag," said he.,. " Why, half the girls in Ameri-
ca would envy you, and-"
" Father," exclaimed the excited girl, with flashing eye and
dilated nostrils, " do not urge the matter ; it is useless 1"Then
rising, she went before him, put one of. her tiny hands on each

"4

TMEI WEST POINT CADET..

r.
47

-0'

:4 4y


S

48

THE WEST POINT CADET.

F

of his sallow cheeks, and kissed him again and again, saying
between each salute, " No, no !"
" You are yoir' poor mother's child," said Mr. Patterson, when
this affectionate negative was at last concluded. "I must go
down to Wall street now, but I hope when I return to-night to
find you less obdurate."
"Adieu! But you will not find me disposed to receive any
attentions from John Spencer."
No sooner had he closed the door behind him than she burst
Into a flood of tears. Alas! why was it not Clement' who was
)hus thrust upon her? .Her nature had an unusual degree of
force, but somehow she now felt oppressed with a sense of sad-,
ness. Well has it been asked if there Is not in the curious-
mechanism of the human frame some hidden sense league in
mysterious sympathy with his destiny; some subtle fluid within,
which becomes agitated or congealed as the meshes of fate draw
closely around; some sad presentiment, some vague foreknowl-
edge of impending doom. Why else was Ida so wretched ?
Why else did she fear an end to those pleasant dreams which
for a week had made her so happy?
While what Germans call "danger-shadow" was thus dark-
ening the young girl's soul, she unconsciously approached a
window, and gazing down into the street, saw-coulfP she be-
lieve her eyes ?-Clemnent Spencer! Yes. On reaching New
York, some magnetic influence had led him to seek out Mr.
Patterson's residence, although he was not aware that Ida had
returned from West Point. Passing slowly by, and gazing up
At the windows as if envying them the privilege of meeting her
gaze, he saw the loved features whose smile was sunlight to his
elouded heart  Was It- a dream?  No. She saw him; she
recognizeid'hi; she beckoned him to enter the house.
The sign was iminediately understood, and ere Ida could fly'
down stairs, greatly to the surprise of a fat serving-man, whom
she nearly overturned, Clement rang the bell. The -door 'Was
opened, and Ida herself, with a radiant look of joy lighting up
her features, admitted him.
But she could but start as she greeted him. But a few days
had passed since she had se e'a in Clement Spencer a fresh, joy-.
,ous young man, with aserene light in his true eyes,and an earnest
expression 6f content. Now, he stood before her paid an d hag-
gard, with contracted brow,' blood Ahot eyes, and cheeks fur-

'

3

p

THE WEST POINT CADET.49
rowed -by those anxious lines that speak of sleepless nights and
Troubled days.
She ushered him into a drawing-room, where they sat down
Eide by side, but for some moments neither spoke. She felt
tha the still frost of disappointment was nipping the flowers of
her love, and sat with questions quivering on her lip, yet not
wishing to break the silence.
IA Clement's heart, there was a wild struggle between pride
and affection. His yearnings for the interchange of'pure affec-
tion, rainpant and fierce, were only subdued by the thought that
he was a beggar-that he had nothing to offer the heiress but a
name coming from a hidden source. But he must speak.
"Miss Patterson-Ida !" His pale lips quivered as though he
would go on, but could not.
"Clement," said she, fixing her candid eyes steadily on -his
troubled countenance with an imploring glance of entreaty,
"what has happened ?"
"Happened! Alas, Ida-if I may so call you-I am a sad
and heart-sick man. My dear godfather is dead, and I,, driven
forth from his kind home as an outcast, feel a gulf opened
between us'that-"
"A gulf!" interrupted Ida, in tones of contempt. "Think
you, Clement, that I care for gold-that I have ever thought of
your father's wealth ?"
"Alas !" exclaimed Clement, with the impetuosity of a generous
heart, " he is not my father.- I am-"
He was interrupted by the abrupt entrance of Mr. Patterson,
his countenance clouded with furious anger. Striding up to
Clement, who rose to his feet, he asked, sternly:
"Beggar-scoundrel! what are you doing here ? What do
you mean by stealing into my house like a thief?"
Astonished at this abrupt greeting, Clement Spencer trembled
from head to foot with emotion. But Ida, with alook of dignity
that even awed the savage violence of her father, stood between
them.
"tFather," said she, in a calm voice, " Mr. Spencer came into
this house at my invitation."
" Invitation !" growled the infuriated parent. " Can you find
no one to invite here but a'beggar 2"
" Beggar !"~ repeated Clement Spencer, In a tone of anguish
which seemed wrung from the depths of his sorrow-strickeu
heart

4

1:

-


50

THE WEST POINT CADET.

"Yes- - r!I Who ard you, anyhow ?     Who was your
father ? W.Was your mother? What right had you to impose
yourself on me and my daughter as the son of Clement Spence,
of Coalboro'? Aha, you don't answer, you beggar!"
A flush stole over the young man's pale face, and plide
appeared to rise even above the deep agony of hissoul.
"Mr. Patterson," said lie, mournfully, yet with decision,
" you gain nothing by heaping insults. upon a bruised heart.
I did not seek this interview, and I only was improving it to
explain to Miss Patterson the dark cloud which hangs over my
parentage, a cloud which-"
"Which filddlestick !" interrupted Mr. Patterson, stamping
upon the carpet in his rage. "Now clear out from here, and if
you ever darken these doors again, you beggar, I will have you
sent to Blackwell's Island like a thief!"
Clement Spencer, as he turned toward the door, cast a glance
of mute appeal toward Ida. It reached her heart, and with a j
Llush of glowing crimson mantling her cheek, she, with a bound,
clasped the young man around the neck, exclaiming:
Heaven bless you, dear Cleutent! Remember, I am yours!"
With a loud oath, and clenched fist, the infuriated father strode
toward the love-locked pair. But ere lie reached them, Clement
Spencer had with a spasmodic effort wound his arms around
Ida, whispering, "Forever-forever !" Then, loosening himself
from her embrace, he confronted Mr. Patterson, saying:
Do not forget sir, that I am a cadet and a gentleman."
The man of money cowered before the man of mind, and the
clenched hand was opened.
I don't wish- to hurt your feelings, young man," growled Mr.
Patterson, "but John Spencer has written me all about you,
and that foolish girl will yet marry his son. You may be smart,
but young John will have the dimes, and that's the great staff
of life, yoqu know. Anyhow,.as you claim to be a cadet and a
gentleman, I hope you will never enter this house again without
my consent."~
"Never fear, sir," replied Clement, with a kindling eye,'and
in a stern tone. " I shall not soon forget tlis interview." Then
lowering his voice, and turning towards Ida with a respectful
obeisance, he continued: " No-I shall never forget it."
He left' the room and the house with. a firm step, and a cold,
proud brow, but the whirlwind of agony swept in bitter wails8
over the tightly-drawn strimgs of his heart.

I

/

might have preserved a face so youthful, even to fifty.  is hair

THE WEST POINT CADET.           .   51
Ida, with a lookof bitter anguish at her father, swept up stairs,
and soon the feverish lush of excitement sank 'into the zero-
like wretchedness of disappointment. Alone with her own
agony, she felt dispirited and depressed, yet within her heart-
a blessed talisman-was the love she bore Clement Spencer.
4k
CHAPTER X.
TEMPTATION.
ABOUT a mile from West Point, on a narrow lane, which led
along the very bank of the river, was' a large brick house,
originally built for a hotel, although the sign no longer creaked
from the gibbet-like post in front. Strangers who passed during
the day, and looked into the windows of the first floor (where
they could see some common furniture through the accumulated
dust on the window panes), would have supposed the house to
be inhabited, though by persons who were unusually indifferent
to the comforts of order and cleanliness. If they passed again
late at night, and happened to look-up once more at the dreary
Mansion, and then saw faint gleams of light struggling through
the closed shutters of the upper windows, the thought might
arise that in that upper chamber the wakeful eye of the invalid
found, companionship in the feeble ray of the night-lamp. -But
if any feeling of Ouriosity prompted an inquiry among the dis-
tant neighbors as to who dwelt in, that forlorn-looking place,
an evasive reply was sure to be given. What might have been
their real opinions, they were kept back by, the recollections of
the generous prices paid there for game. fruit, eggs and butter.
The occupant' of this somewhat mysterious dwelling-fainil-
larly known as Jemmy Ryan-had the air and appearance of
one formed for action, yet partially enslaved by sensuality. He
was of no more than a middling stature, but a vigorous muscu-
lar development promised a more than ordinary strength, while
in his gestures there was a decision which no advantage of
stature could bestow. There was .no clue to his: age. The
anxious expressionl might have gathered on his ill-favored coun-
tenance during the phases of thirty years of adventurous life;
a vigorous constitution and a mind not ovrer-sensitive to trouble

!4


/

52

THE WEST POINT CADET.

Was a bleached -carroty red, andthere. was -a brazen look about,
his blood-shot, fiery eyes, betokening little good yin the heart of'
which they were the windows-
Some of the good. people in those parts declared that he had
been a clergyman, and had fallen from grace; others felt coif1-
dent that he had been a pirate; and others shook their heads
mysteriously when his name was mentioned. But the cadets
knew him as a caterer for their pleasures. Did a party of them
wish to enjoy a rollicking supper, and too pss the rest of the
night at the gaming-table, Jemmy Ryan's was the place to visit.
One of the most constant frequenters of the establishment
was a cadet from the then half-civilized West, who had been
classic'ally christened Demosthenes, and whose paternal naibe
was Jones. One of the oldest at the institution, he was tall and
large; his features were repulsive, and he showed personal indi-
cations of a disposition to vicious idulgence in the use of
ardent spirits,
Late in the day, after the scene at Mr. Patterson's, this worthy
was striding to and -fro at Ryan's, with contracted brow .and
unsteady step. The master of the establishment was in the
room, and sat watching him with tiger-like eagerness. At
length he thought the time had arrived, and broke the silence-
"Well," he asked, "how does Squire Jones mean to propel ?"
"Propel!" repeated the cadet, with a shudder. "-What can I
do ?"
"Stump the flimsies," -was the reply; "square the chink."
"1Pay up, I suppose you mean, in. your infernal slang. I wish
I could. I wish I had never seen this den-never met that
smooth-tongued New Yorker, confound him!"-
"Never," continued Ryan, with sarcastic coolness-" never
have scribbled a promise for five hundred dollars which you
cannot stump up! Isn't It so, SquireJones ?"
"1I thought I could pay It."
"Thought's a bad master, Squire Jones.".
"But what can'I do ?"
" Pay up."
"And how ?"
" Ha, ha!I" laughed Ryan. " Here's ,a go! You had a time,
borrowed the rollers, scribbled your promise, and. now ask poor
old Jemmy Ryan how to pay up. You owe me afew ~'s, too,
my 'fine fellow."
1" Bhut what will become of me ?"

I

1V

0

"Wiere is the man ?" exclaimed.Jones, springing to his feet.
"Anything rather than.expulsiono"

,1

TUE' WEST -POINT CADET. 5
"Not much. The promise Is In the Newburg Bank,;it will
be protested, colonel will hear oflt, protesting contrary to rules,
debts ditto, and so you'll have to, tramp."
"I would sooner diel"
"That's plucky."
" But:what can I do"
"Borrow."
"Who of?"
"Any one. Try Clem Spencer." As he spoke, Ryan peered
from beneath his shaggy e-yebrows,-to ascertain the- result- of
this carelessly-uttered but well-aimed remark.
"Clem Spencer !" exclaimed the cadet,stopping in his walk-
",Clem Spencer ! Have you forgotten how, the rascal meddled
with my flirtation with. the daughter of old Rawson, at Cold
Spring? And then, only a week or so ago, did he not snub
Count Discount because the poor little fellow witnessed a love-
scene between the Immaculate and that Patterson girl? Why,
lie talked to-Wilkinson as though he was but a-dog."
"Yes," scornfully replied Ryan; "and he would have treated
you in exactly the same way."
"He! Clem Spencer dare lay his hand on meI" cried Jones,
with the ferocity of aroused anger. "1 ,have half a mind toinsult
and whip the coxcomb, at any rate,"
"He's rich, and you do not dare touch him."
"Not dare ! Why, I would thrash his life out of him for a
tottle ofchampagne."-
"Sit down. I wish to make a proposition."
Jones looked at Ryan for a moment, as if vaguely suspecting
that something wrong was on foot, but he took a chair and sat
down.
"Squire Jones," said Ryan, " I know a man who will put the
Yellow boys into your hands to pay that note with, if you will
.in suit that aristocrat, call him out,.and wing him. You are a
dead shot, and can easily draw his claret without slipping. his
wind."
" But if I kill him ?"
" Bah ! Honestly, I don't believe he dares stand fire, and the
game is to make him show the white-feather."
" Should I murder him, though ?" muttered Jones.
" Well,.have the protest nowjif yo~u like it betterr"

I-.- 'I.

V

F

4


'54            THE WEST POINT CADET.
' Nerd."
"What, you, Jenmy Ryan ?"
"Yes. I am only an agent, though."
",But the money-who has fhe money?"
"I have." Taking out a leathern putse, in which clinked
gold with its unmistakable sound, he tossed it toward Jones,
saying: "There it is-all right. Now   take a, glass of
champagne."0
"No, no!" exclaimed the -cadet, a livid pallor overspreading
.his countenance. " Iwant brandy-strong, potent brandy! Ha,
ha! my note is paid. Brantdy, old fellow-brandy!"
Ryan produced a bottle, from which he poured forth two
copious libations. One of these the cadet clutched, and poured it
down his throat until not a drop was left in the glass. It made his
eyes gleam with fire, and with a smile of bitter -satisfaction on
his lips, he commenced pitching up and catching the purse of
gold.
"You have made more to-night than any of the covies up
stairs have," said Ryan, putting away the bottle.
"What!" eagerly inquired Jones. "Is there any playing
going on up stairs ?"
"You'd better believe there is-rouge et noir at that, and a
rich bank to break. That New York fellow is here again."
"Ah! I can perhaps win back the amount of my note.."
" Why not try? Come, let's take another swig."~
Again did the wily emissary of crime hand a glass of brandy
to the young man, and again did he pour down the fiery draught.
Then, maddened with the potations- and with excitement, he
hastened up stairs.
There; everything had a fascinating look of comfort and splen-
dor. Costly draperies, richly gilded picture frames, and furni-
ture fit for a palace (although -rather the worse for wear), pre-
sented a different appearance from the roonis below. The d&amp;i-
gravings on the wall represented in glowing colors some objec-
tionable scenes of heathen mythology, and in a book-case were
well-thumbed editions of Paul de Kock's first publications, then
as novel as they were immoral.
At least a score sat around the table, not a quarter of them
wearing the cadet uniform, and all absorbed in the game. The
banker smiled as he saw his new victim enter, for it. was for him,
and him alone, that the whole affair had been' arranged., Those
'present might either lose or win a few hundred dollars, but the

)

with a meaning look.
"A word with you, sir," said the banker, ere the agonized

x

THE WEST POINT CADET.               55
game, after all, was to bring the now half-intoxicated Demos-
thenes Jones to participate.
The banker-the spider in the midst of this web of crime,
though carefully disguised with false, whiskers,a well-curled
wig and green glasses-was none other than Professor Pike.
Who, to have seen him there smiling'and jesting as he welcomed
Jones to a seat, would have thought that for weeks he had been
-laying a deep plot of villany, and that this was another step
accomplished?
"Do you take your. revenge, Mr. Jones ?" asked the.wily
banker (there known as Mr. Thompson), with a quiet smile.
For a moment the young man hesitated, but the sight of
various sums placed upon the table by those around. him, had
the effect of inciting him, and he drew out the leather purse.
The circle gazed at this evidence of prosperity with sonje inter-
est, and in a few moments he was betting wildly.
Thompson, or rather Pike, saw with joy that the spell of en-
chantment was upon his victim, and for a time the young man
was a constant winner.
"Really, Mr. Jones," said he, In gentle tones, "I shall soon be
forced to offer you my note; the tables are turned since we last
tempted fortune together."
"Play on-play on!" exclaimed Jones, and staked his every
dollar on the game. .A flush of triumph mantled his cheek as
he won.
" Really," said the wily banker, striking the tale, " you
intend to ruin me."
But at the next deal the luck changed. Little by little the
young gamesters found their funds making their way into the
banker's hand, yet they hoped and played on.- One by one they
left, penniless, and stood silent spectators, until Jones alone
fought the demon of play. The struggle was apparently aii
equal one, for exclamations of joy or disappointment were heard
on either hand. But at last the infatuated cadet-sat 'with his
.eyes fixed in heart-broken gaze at his last eagle,.as it was swept
up by the banker, leaving nothing in xchange but misery and
despair.
" Come, Demosthenes, you unlucky old Roman !" exclaimed
-one of his comrades :." we must hurry back to barracks."
"Don't- you want to send to Newburg ?" asked. Jemmy Ryan,

':

J.-.

Ii-

U~ ~.V
hi
I"
1~'
I'

iN IL

I .


I

young man could collect his thoughts. "Heretake' this five
hundred dollars again, and send Ryan with it to pay your note.
You now owe mne that sum."
But how can I pay you ?" asked Jones, as they were leaving
the room.
"Do as Ryan directed you," hissed the disguised Professor
Pike into his ear.
The conscience-stricken victim started, and: as he mechani-
cally followed his comrades, his very life appeared bound; up in
the existence of some dreadful thought.
CHAPTER XI.
PROVOCATION AND ASSAULT.
EVIL tidings travel swiftly. Hardly had Clement Spencer
returned to West Point, when the most astounding stories con-
cerning him were put into circulation.. At first they were mere
\runiors, which circulated from barrack to barrack, like a drop
of oil which, though hardly perceptible at first, soon sullies the
whole fabric upon'which it has fallen. Rimors casting discredit'
upon his parentage soon grew bolder, and finally fortified them-
selves by corroborating circumstances, each more injurious
than its predecessor.'
For some days, Clement was too much absorbed in his own
griefs to notice the cool glances of those with whom he had
previously been on familiar terms. He had lost his kind god-
father, and the world. was but a dreary waste-only illumined
by the prospect that he might yet enjoy the love of his cherished
Ida. During the day he was to a great extent absorbed- in his
studies, but long and restless were his nights. The pillow
brought no relief to his aching head; his bed was like a bed of
thorns; sleep refused to visit his eyelids, and night was but a
seasoif of agony. Sometimes he would start up and wonder if-
the events of the past month were not a terrible dream; then he
would endeavor to philosophize on his ill fate, and then he would
find the voice of reason drowned in the still deep voice of utter .
despair.
While others who had professed to be Clement's friends de-
5orted him in this hour of heart-trial, and were among the fore-

THE WEST POINT CADET.

I

THE WEST POINT CADET
most around the anatomical table of public opinion, where his
history was so pitilessly dissected, Clayton remained steadfast.
True, Clement's life was to his friend an enigma, but he did not
seek to unravel it. Nay, he endeavored to prevent the pestilen-
tial breath of slander from reaching him, and from festering in
a heart already wounded to the very core. Above all,he believed
Clement Spencer to be an honorable, abused and slandered na.
A week-passed slowly along, and Clement Spencer-could bnt
see the coolness with which every one, save Clayton, treated
him. Why was he thus ostracised from society he did not ask,
but naturally came to the conclusion that it was owing to tie
change in his pecuniary prospects. This wounded him the
more, and as he avoided societylehis traducers asserted that lie
virtually confessed the truth of tleir allegations.
Nor was there a morning or an evening parade at which the
unfortunate -Jones-did not see Je-mmy Ryan, who would gaze at
him with an inquiring glance, as if to ask, "Why do you not
earn your money ?"
The time came at length. One evening, Clayton being on
guard, Clement slipped quietly down to Kosiusko's'kgarden, the
scene of his heart-confession. Sitting on the bench, loet in
dreamyreverie, the shades of night drew in, and he did not
notice the arrival of a party of cadets, until they were close -by
him. Was it his own name that met his ear ?
"Yes, gentlemen," said Jones who was speakitg,-" and this
disgrace of his birth is not all. You remember how Wilkinson,
that New Yorker who was up hereginsulted him? Well, Wik-
inson sent him a challenge, but he was so cowardly as to refuse
it. So much for Clem Spencer's honor."
Rising to his feet, Spencer stepped quickly before the speaker.
"Sir," said he, "do you allude to me ?"
"Listeners hear no good of themselves," was the sneering
remark of Jones.
" Sir" replied Spencer, "I was seated here when you came
along, and when I heard my own name,, I had a right, to- listen
to those who used it."
" I hope you are satisfied."
" I am satisfied, Mr. Jbnes, that you, in repeating slanderous
falsehoods, coupled an opprobrious epithet with my name."
" Cowardly was the word I used," said .Jones, in, the most
contemptuous manner, " and I now repeat it."
"Applying it to me 2"

1'

fr(,


THE WEST POINT CADET.
To you, Clem Spencer or to any other coward I"
The others, who had listened in breathless astonishment,
turned toward Spencer; but he stood calm and colleeted-
"iWhen you have digested this insult," continued Jones,
encouraged by the silence of Spencer, " I have another ready."
"Mr. Jones," replied Spencer, with coolness, "I am at a loss
to know whether yon are crazy or drunk."
Incensed to madness, Jones' drew himself up, and spat con-
temptuously at.Spencer.
"This," said Spencer, "is unbearable. Gentlemen, I have
considered this young man deranged; but if he is sane, I can be
found at.the guard-house, where my friend Clayton will make
necessary arrangements. After such an insult as you have
witnessed, if this man'is not lisane, one of us should no longer
live."
He turned away, and walked slowly to the guard-house, where
he confided what had happened to his friend.
" Spencer," said the noble-hearted Clayton, when he had heard
the recital, " I tell you frankly that you have secret enenies
about here; who are using every means to blacken your name
and your parentage. This fellow must be put forward as their
champion, and the sooner you meet him the better."
"I am ready, Clayton. A mystery appears to enshroud me,
and the quicker I can penetrate it the better, as you say."
"Good! Now go-to your quarters, and endeavor to get some
sleep. I will get some one to take my place, so as to get away,
and we will have a meeting down by Jemmy Ryan's, at day-
break."
"Ah, Clayton, you are a friend indeed !" said Spencer, who
felt that he was indeed the victim to some conspiracy against
him. "Come over when the arrangements are made."
Returning to his quarters, Clement wrote to Ida, and then
the thought occurred to him that Mr. Ledroit had ever taken a
warm interest in his welfare.' So he also wrote to him, and just
as he had concluded the letter, which was a recital of the recent
sad events in which he had been an actor, Clayton entered the
room.
"All Is arranged," said he. " You are to meet, with pistols,
in the glen between here and Jemmy Ryan's, where the old iron
forge IS. I insisted, also, that we go separately, as in that case
it will be easier to pass the guard, and no suspicions will beo
excited. Now take your pistols-I think you have a'pair-and

I

come over to my quarters. You can sleep better. there than
here, anA sleep -you must."
spencer did exactly what his friend requested him to do, and
in half an hour was occupying Clayton's cot, while, its owner
went elsewhere. say, he fell asleep, and after troubled dreams,
was, awakened by Clayton.
" Up upI" said he. "I have overslept myself, and we are
late. But I will hasten to the rendezvous, and you can follow."
AsSpencer was dressing, he remembered that he had. left the
letters.which he had wrote the evening previous on his table in
his own quarters, and he determined -to go for them, feeling
certain that he could overtake Clayton, or reach the rendezvou a
a very few moments after him.
On reaching the door of the room, however, he saw, to his.
surprise, a light within, visible through the cracks. He had
locked it on leaving, and the' key was in his pocket, yet the
sound of footsteps within plainly met his ear, and on applying
his key, ei found that another was in the lock, on the inside.
It then flashed across his mind that a long ladder, which had
been used for some repairs, was standing. on the outside of the
building. Hastening out to it, he cautiously moved it, until ,it
rested on the sill of his window, and then ascended.
Was it possible? Yes. There sat the unknown stranger
who had so tantalized him ab out his parentage at the gambling-
house in New York, eagerly inspecting the papers in his writing.-
desk, while on the table lay, open, the veryletters for which he,
came,.which he had leftcarefully sealed. Seizing the window,
he endeavored to throw it up, but It was fastened within, and
the noise attracted the attention of the inquisitor. No sooner
did he see Spencer's angry face through the glass, than with a
spring he unlocked the door and fled. When at last the window
yielded to the powerful attack upon its fastening, and the occu-
pant of the room sprang In, he found himself alone..
It Was evident, 'however, that his desk had been carefully ex-
a                 could not discover that anything was miss7
Ing is first thought was to follow the audacious intruder;
then he began to collect the opened papers on the table; but
the, aov  evrytin  else, he recollected his engagemnenlt
Hastily re-folding the letters to Ida Patterson and Mr. Ledroit,
he left the room and the building, lost in conj ecture. as to. this
.neW phase of the conspiracy which was evidently gomng: on~
against his happiness.

U-

-59t

THE: WEST POINT CADET.-

11

I
I

I

tIs

A

4'

o


THE, WEST POINT CADET.

60,

Day had not dawned,.and-slipping..past the sentries, Clepnent
Spencer hastened to the rendezvous. The path led through the
woods; nor had he gone far, when he tripped over sone obstacle
and fell to the0ground, striking his-head against a tree. ' A faint--
ness caine over him, and he lay insensible.
When he again became conscious, it seemed to him that he
had awoke from-a disturbed and painful dream; but when he
endeavored to sit up .in his bed, he sank back, feeble and ex-
hausted. Where was he? In'a large room, the blinds of-which
were closed, but of which he had no recollection.' It was, her
could see by the faint light which made its way in, plainly! fur--
nished, and oin a table at -his bedside were' medicines. Surely
he must have been-nay, he then was very ill, and in Vain did
he endeavor to disentangle his confused btain. from the visions
which floated through- it. Soon, wearied even witr. thought
he slept again.
The noise made by opening the door aWoke him, and-looking
up, he recognized his friend Clayton, who hastened ontiptoe,
to his' bedside.
"My poor Clem,' said he, "how do you feel to-day ?".
"- Tell me, Clayton," said he, "where am I?"
"Safe so far," was the. reply. "But you must keep quiet.n
Spencer protested, however, that he felt able to hear anything
concerning himself; and Clayton, seating himself at the bedside;
made this narration:                               .
"On leaving you, Clem, I hastened to the place of'rendezvousi
but found no one there. Lighting a cigar, I was pacing to and
fro, when I plainly heard the report of a pistol, iii the direction
6f the barracks.. Hastening thither, I met McLean, who was to
act as second to Jones, supporting him, and endeavoring to get
him along. He had been fired at, Clemi and *odnded in the
leg*
By whom?" asked Spencer.
" Not by you, my dear fellow; your manner prbves it. But
very near the place where he was fired atyyout ere. fdund with
a discharged pistol near you, and facing'the 'bahalek&amp;. It looked
'asa hough" you had fired-Was hastening backsto thecbarifacks,
and had fallen; striking your head against-a tree as'yon fell."
"1i fired!I" feebly exclaimed Spencer.
" Hush! Not a word! No- one believes you guiltyor assassi..
nation whose opinion is of value, 'and Jones is hobbling, about
again. But I brought you here-to Jem~my Ryan's-as the

I

0

CHAPTER XII.
A DOUBLE ESCAPE.

'.; ~3.

YOUTH and a strong constitution triumphed, yet It was a
severe struggle. For ten never-ending days and as many long
nights of agony, did Clement'Spencer toss restlessly about on
his feverish pillow, his brow corrugated with the pangs of deli-
'rium: Carefully did Clayton watch by his bedside,:ministering to
his wants with that kindness soiprecious -to the suffering invalid.
The crisis came and was past. One mornng, Clement awoke
with, aconsciousness that his mind was free from the visions
which had haunted it, and although very feeble, he felt confl-
d&amp;nce in the doctor's assertion that he would slowly recover.
He was forbidden to speak, however, even to his devoted friend
Clayton, and for a few long days more he layhii a passive drow-
siness, lost in the sad maze of his own thoughts. Indeed, as he
lay dreaming of the future, it seemed at times a matter of regret
that Providence had pernitted him so recover, for he had recol-
lections of glimpses of a glorious existence beyond the lomb-
portals at which he had lingered. Itwasreplete with bright-
ness and-glory, and radiant with the brilhant  es of revelation,
while everything around was full of dark sha ows- and soul-
crushing sorrows. His parentage Was anipene able enigma,
and an evil geniis had of late appeared to hurr blin to ruin.
A blighting penury was blasting his once bri iant prospects;
and now that he was poor and friendless, he w s accused of a
crime at which his heart revolted. Nay-love o Ida Patterson,

r

46

THE WEST POINT CADET.

I
I.

nearest shelter, andlhere you had better remain for the present.
To speak frankly, Clem, your room was found in great disorder.
and I believe that coward Jones has brought' the case before
the grand jury. While in your present condition, no arrest
could be made, 'and, meanwhile,,keep quiet. All will come out
rightly in the end, and let me assure you that you do not lark
friends. Now good-day. Don't be discouraged, but get strong
as soon as you can."
It was more than the invalid could bear-t]gat news of. fresh
suspicion, and that night he was again in the struggling delirium
of a brain fever.

fI-

-4

i~.

4'


62

THE WEST POINT CADET*

I
H

THE WEST POINT CADEt.

$

that blessed talisman which would'enable him to breast the
stormy waves of trouble, was also denied him. His thirsty
heart was not to drink of its sweetness in the desert of affliction,
and no bright star of light illumed the darkness of the future.
Clayton was his only comfort, and when he was permitted to
converse, it gladdened his sorrow-stricken heart to find that his,
friend turned a deaf ear to the charges against him. Yet he
.was informed, with due caution, that appearances were strong
against him, and, that Jones was earnest in his desires for
revenge.
One niorning, Clayton went to West Point, to obtain some
articles of wearing apparel, and returned accompanied by Pro-
fessor Pike. Clement had not seen this worthy (undisguised)
for some time, but was haunted by the thought that he had
been with him during his illness.
"Clem," said Clayton, after. the introduction, "do you feel
strong enough to go out of doors ?"
"Yes; I wished to go out yesterday, you know, but had
nothing to put on."
"Mr. Spencer," said Professor Pike, "we have bad news for
you. First let me tell youfgat Mr. John Spencer commissioned-
me, the instant he learned of this unhappy affair, to come here
and render' you what aid I could.- Mr. Clayton will bear me
witness' that I have done all that I could to second his noble
exertions in your behalf."
"1That he has, Clem-that he has !" exclaimed Clayton, who
noticed a cloud of displeasure gathering on his friend's face.
"I have done my duty,". meekly continued the professor.
"And now comes a disagreeable task. - We, Mr. Spencer, do not
believe you guilty of this foul charge made against you, but the
public think differently.  There is strong circumstantial evi-
dence that you were at your quarters in a state of great excite-
ment-that you took your pistols-that your adiversary wasshot
at from some one who came stealthily from behind-and that
you. were soon after found near there, lying in 'a position that,
would.justify a belief that after firing you sought to escape, but
accidentally fell."                                N
As this chain of evidence was unravelled, Clement's sunken .
eyes. appeared full of a deeper sorrow than is ever lightened by .
tears. The only thing that indicated life or emotion, was a con-
vulsive quivering of his pale lips, and when he endeavored to -
speak, his voice appeared to falter.

4-

I

"But can It be believed ?" he at length faltered forth.
"Alas!1" replied Clayton, "it will be."
"I am ready for trial !" exclaimed Clement, without the faint-
est blush of shame upon his emaciated countenance.
"No, np," said Clayton; "it would be madness to do so now,
and thus encounter the malignancy of that rascal Jones."
"1Of course it would," chimed in the smooth-tongued professor.
"No; Mr. Spencer must quietly leave, and remain away until
these suspicions can be cleared up."
"What! I fly? I become a hunted fugitive ?"
"No, my dear Clem," answered Clayton., "Justice has not
as yet claimed you, although I fear, she will soon be looking for
you. But if you value yourself, your friends, or the memory of
your godfather, do not become the victim  of this rascal8
revenge."
"But my honor !" exclaimed the unhappy young man, in a
tone of deep feeling.
Leaning forward, until he could whisper In his ear, the pro-
fessor pronounced one word. It was the magical name of her
he loved, and the thought that his very arrest (innocent though
he might prove'himself) would but cloud her thoughts of him,
had the desired effect.
"But where can I go ?" he asked.
"Professor Pike will attend to that," said Clayton, "and I
hope you will stand the fatigue of the journey."
Before the astonished invalid could fairly understand his posi-
tion, he was up, shaved and dressed by the -care of Clayton.
There was a crimson spot on each pale cheek, and his eyes
began to sparkle feverishly from the excitement, but he felt
stronger than he had anticipated. A carriage was at the door,
and with many affectionate farewells. to the devoted Clayton,
Clement Spencer started for New York at a rapid pace. Faint-
hearted after so many disappointments, he feared that his inno-
cence would not save him from the ignominy of a public trial,
perhaps followed by imprisonment as a felon, and the ready
means of escape offered could not be refused.
That night they arrived at New,~York, and Clement found
himself the inmate of a miserable room in the upper part of the
city, where he remained for nearly a week, without venturing
out of doors. Indeed, he felt so exhausted after the ride 'that
he had little desire to move or even to think. '   -
One evening the professor came to make his daily visit, anid

ir

I


4.

64

THE WEST POINT CADETS

4

with him Clayton, who was, welcomed by.Spencer with heartfelt
joy.'
"But how," he asked,1" did you get a furlough ?"
"Let me tell you, Clem. flow much better you look, bythe
way ! Well, it was a great thing that you, started when you
did, for the very .next morning that rascally Jones went to
Newburg, got a sheriff's posse, and went to have you arrested.
Bad as matters looked, many of yourold friends rebelled at this,
and would have gone down to rescue' you, but I gave them a
hint that there would be no writ served-on you that day. Sure
enough, back came the great Demosthenes, swearing like a
pirate. His bird had flown, and he is saddled with a round bill
of costs. The next morning the old colonel sent for me, and
although it would not be proper for the. head -of the military
academy to wink at the escape of a cadet charged with a-critne,
he is rLot sorry, I assure, you. Nay, you see- 1: have a furlough
to come and see you sail.
"Sail ?" inquired Clement.
"Yes. Have you not posted him up, professor ?"
"No, sir. I thought it best to see you here first, for you know
that Mr. Spencer is not very tractable."
"Well, Clem, some friends of yours have paid your passage
to India, where you can easily obtain a situation with the letters
we can give you. In a few years you, can obtain a competence,
and before that arrives, old fellow, I hope to see your innocence
clearly established."
"God bless you!". was the only reply of the heart-stricken
young man. Indeed he watebed, with almost vacant indiffer-
ence, the preparations for his departure, and the blue hills of
NeverAink were fast sinking beneath the horizon ere he was
fully conscious that he had left his native land, a heart-broken
exile.  Then, clear, as thej tnes. of a' silver trumpet, came
thoughts of Ila Patterson, and, proud ,bopes that he might yet
stand before her, free from suspicion,:and worthy-of -her love.
Clement found that be had seven fellow-passengers,all bound
for Calcutta, and all professing to be ggod sailors, although it
was some days before~ they appeared at table. Navigation was
their hobby, and they wbuld glibly criticise the ailing of the
vessel when the captain was not withiA hearing, or discuss-the
probable length of the voyage, in a manner which showed a
knowledge of " wind currents " not since attained by Lie~ut.
Maury. To the young exile their conversation presented little

waste of waters.
'5

TH1E WEST POINT CADET.     .        65
attractions, and as he kept aloo'from them, they-soon joined in
disliking .him.
The weather was delightful until they approached the tropics,
when the porpoises began to gambol around the vessel, and it
was evident that. stormy weather, was at hand. One night:the
sun went. down- behind a heavy cloud, the horizon grew black,.
and soon livid lightning was welcomed to the stormy scene by
the sonorous roll of pealing thunder.. The rain began to pour
down, and while the crew laid..aloft to get. in sail, amidst the
vociferations of the officers, the passengers sought refuge in
the cabin.
"I say," said one of the young men, "listen to what I have
found in a newspaper which was wrapped around my oil-cloth
cape."' He then read:
GREAT EXCITEMENT, we learn, prevails at West Point, a
student of the academy having been shot by a fellow-cadet, with
whom he was to fight a duel. Singularly enough, the- would-
be-assassin was arrested in his flight by a fall, which left him
senseless, and he how les in a fever in a neighboring house, so
ill that no arrest has yet been made. The cadet wounded, a
Mr. Demostheries Jones, is not dangerously though severely
wounded. The name of the culprt is-
Ere the readereould proceed furthei0lement rushed madly
from the cabin, although had he remained he would have heard
that the sentence concluded, "not known to us, as the officers
of the institution have requested that it- should not be made
public,many having doubts as to the guilt of the party suspected."
But Clement, feeling the brand of Cain upon his brow, rusheL
out upon the.deck, where -the mad howling of the storm was in
unison with his own troubled heart. Soon the tempest seemed
to lull, as if it had exhausted its force, but after a brief 'lul, it
swept along with such fury as to rend what canvas was set into
shreds, while everything on deck was buried beneath a torrent,
and then carried into a trough of' a trgpnendous sea. Round-
houses, chicken-coops and water-casks were carried from their
fastenings as if they had been paper, and Clmn  pencer found
himself struggling for life in the floating mass-of' ruins; while
the vessel was forging fast ahead. Grasping a hen-coop, with
the thought that it was the only chance for life, he was tossed
about all night, and the morning found him alone on the wide

I}
Ft

(A -
t

4

h.

I
"I

__


THE WEST POINT CADE.

Yet Providence had another fate in store for him, and he was
picked up by a French vessel 'returning from Cayenne, the offi-
cers and crew of which vied with each other in their kindness'
to the waif which they had found floating on the wide ocean
exhausted and insensible. They asked his name when he was
sufficiently restored to speak, but the exposure which he imag-
ined had been made by his recent fellow"passengers-was  yet,
fresh in tis mind. So he replied, catching at the flest name
which presented 'itself-the first name in his thoughts after the
heart-hallowed one of Ida-"'Clement Clayton."

I&amp;.

-CHAPTER XIII.
A CLOUDED HEARTHSTONE*

IDA PATTERSON, although she heard-stories to the prejudice..
of Clement :Spencer on every hand, believed them not. He
might be beggared, of disreputable origin, quarrelsome, ay, an
assassin, in the opinion of others, but her heart told her that
these tales were originated in the malicious imagination of
others. The tones of his voice ever echoed in her heart, like
the summer-wind playing over harp strings, and. every echo but
asserted his integrity and his innocence. Sometimes, when he
was lying ill at West Point, she would determine to see him,
let the hazard be what it might. Strange plans for visiting him
would float through her. mind-plans which had, no basis save
in fancy. Then she would picture in imagination the day when
all these clouds would vanish, and their love-linked hearts could
enjoy the pure happiness of'undisturbed intercourse. Hope
had not yet been deferred long enough to make her heart sick.
Her father treated her somewhat distantly, never omitting to,
retail for her benefit anything to the prej udice of her lover; and'
young John Spencer kept him well supplied with evil reports,
Of course he did not add bow his tool Professor Pike worked
to effect the ruin of'therl4ictim, or the money which that ruin
cost. But carefully as was every circumstance paraded forth,
by Mr. Patterson calculated to estrange her froi*r Cletnent, it
was of no avail. The spell of his love rested on her like a magic
charm, enchaimgig her very soul.
One evening the broker came in at tea hour evidently in
exeeent spirits.

Jon

4'

"Well, Ida," said he, with a sneering laugh, "have you heard
from that Spencer vagabond 2"
"Young Mr. John Spencer, do you mean, sir ?"
"Young thunderbolt! You know well enough who I mean,
you minx. That cadet, of course."
" Well, sir."
"Well, miss; for your sake I am glad to hear that after sham-
ining illness so' as to prevent arrest, he managed to get down
here, aud was off yesterday in an Indianan, bound for Calcutta.
Joy go with him!"
Ida sat motionless, her fine eyes distended, as she struggled
with her feelings, and combated the dreadful fears that hovered
around her heart.
"Now, Ida," continued Mr. Patterson, "let ie request you to
look favorably upon young Spencer. He is good-looking, rich,
and in every way calculated to make you a g6od husband."
The true-hearted girl's cheek blanched with a death-like pallor
as her father spoke; then, passionate emotion crimsoning her
face,,she replied:
"I regret, sir, that in this case I do not approve of your
judgment. But I can never, never wed John Spencer; nay, his
very presence.is odious to me."
"What'! Do you dare speak so to me? Is this your return
for the kindness with which I have ever treated you ?"exclaimed
the angry father, rising, and walking to and fro in the room.
" Sir," replied Ida, in a firm tone, " you would not surely have
me act hypocritically, or deceive you as to jny own feelings.
But my mind is firmly made up upon this question, and it is
useless to discuss it."
"Nay, but hear me. My life, Ida, has been that of every one
in mercantile life-full of vicissitudes. My profits have been
good, and although my losses have been great, yet I have ever
continued to increase my capital; not for myself, bqt for you-
for you, my-only pride. Every wish of your heart has been
gratified, every desire of your fancy' has been supplied; yet now,
when for the first time I ask a favor of you, I am repulsed with
scorn.
" Not scorn, sir; but surely if you love me- you eannotiexpect
me to marry a man for whom I have no feeling but contempt.''
"Nay," was the reply, and'the haughty merchant's soul quaiiled
before his daughter's glance. "You mnay change your opinion

A

0

oi

THE WEST POINT CADET.

67

dq


THE WEST WOINT CADET.

:68

THE WEST POINT CADET,

"I"ever "                                    ..1
"Gently, Ida. That word, if irrevocable, Is the knell of my
hopes."
"Of your hopes.,
Ay. Listen. About five years since, I was-induced to enter
into stock speculations, in the hope of increasing my wealth--
your wealth. For a time I was fortunate, but then the tideof
fortune changed. "Now," and as he spoke, he lowered his
voice almost to a whisper, "I am beggared."
"My poor, dear father " exclaimed Ida, kneeling at his feet,
~and gazing earnestly in his face; "and it has been for me that
you have toiled and worked? Let me now comfort you in your
affliction."
"Will you not extricate me from it ?"
" That I will," exclaimed the noble-hearted girl. "I will toil
for you; I will give lessons-.-ay, beg for you.".
"Alas, Ida, all that you could make would be but as a drop in
the bucket. Yet you have it in your power to retrieve my po-
sition. The world knows not of my embarrassments, and you
can save me."
"How ?" inquired the young girl.
"My only creditor, Ida, is John Spencer." .
,"And he asks me for bis son as a receipt for the debtAI" coolly
regar4  Ida, in sad tones, her lip curling with scorn, and a
glance o eager Inquiry on her face.
"11 He does, and demands his answer tonight. Would that
the evil hour could ba put off?"
For some moments there was a dead silence, The book of.
fate was open before them, and on its pages one read a heart-
misery worse than death, while th other saw stamped the
downfall of his commercial prosperity. The worst was before
them, and powerful was their soul-egit4 At that trying hour.
At last Ida spoke.
"Father," said she,.
" My child,"
" I can no longer hesitae It would be an iil return for your
kindness, did I throw my happiness into the scale against your
own, #fy heart I can never give to John Spencer, but if my
fand wflr relieve you, my dear father, pledge it as you will." '
" Heaven bless you, generous girl!I" said the cold-hearted
man of business.. " The house of Patterson will remain stead-

Vast, and I hope that happiness will reward your sacrifice. I
must hasten to tell Spencer the good news.".
Imprinting a cold kiss upon his daughter's colder brow, he
left the room, while she slowly sought her own apartment, lock-
ing the door behind her. Then extinguishing the lights, she
buried her face in the sofa cushion, as if she woulh shut out
every sight and sound that could recall the interview just con-
cluded, and concentrate the energies of her soul upon the re-
volting prospect before her. At first she felt the shoek to the
full extent of human agony, and apprehension left no room for
hope. Then the loved image of-Clement flitted like sunshine
across her' troubled heart, and she felt that there might be a
chance to'escape, after all.
She was aroused from her meditations by a noise in the street
below, with a loud peal at the door-bell. A moment more, and
there was a tramping of feet in the hall below, and rushing out,
she gazed over the banisters. One look sufficed. Her father
had been brought home, covered with blood. She almost flew
down stairs, but no kindly glance met hers. The eyes were
closed in death; the hand she grasped was cold. He had ,been
knocked down by a pair of runaway horses; the carriage they
wereIharnessed to had passed over him. He was dead!
Bitter was the grief of Ida, who now felt alone in the world,
and fondly did .she gather from the past each kind action of
her departed parent, to outweigh all remembrance of the sacri-
fice he had asked at their last interview. Thankful was she;
too, that she had expressed a willingness to make this sacrifice
for his sake.
The funeral was over, and the next day Mr. Patterson's lawyer
sent an urgent summons to Ida, requesting her immediate pres-
ence in the drawing-room. A kind-hearted, genial old gentle-
man was he, and often had the now weeping girL cheered him
with her merry laughter when on business visits at the house.
"Miss Ida," said he, "I regret having to disturb your grief,
but I have no alternative. You may not be aware that Mr.
Patterson's affairs have been of late sadly deranged by stock
speculations, and he has consequently died insolvent."
Alas! to Ida it was enough to think that he was dead. -She
said nothing, but wept bitterly..
" To secure his principal, in fact his~ only creditor, Mr. Johrn
Spencer, he: had mortgaged this house, its furniture, and every-
thing else he possessed. Now I am charged with the unpi

"1
I

I

I
A
I
I

iI

69


Tug WEST POINT CADETS

71

ant duty of' asking you if you wish to remain aa-the betrothed
bride of Mr. Spencer's son, or whether--"
The good man's voice faltered, and he hesitated. But Ida
continued: "Or whether I will go -forth into the world a
beggar?"
" Not a beggar, my dear young lady. My house is ever open
to you. But Mr. Spencer demands an answer, and I fear wjll
seek to enforce his rights."
Ere Ida could reply,' the door was opened, and the two
Spencers entered-father and son.
";Well, my retty one," chuckled the old man, "you've con-
cluded-to marry Johnny, I s'pose, and call me father?"
" Making me the happiest fellow in York," continued the son,
attempting. to clasp Ida around the waist.
"Back, sir !" she exclaimed, her eyes flashing fire. "You
may have a right to this house and furniture, but not to me."
"Highty tighty!" said the elder Spencer. "What does this
mean ?"
"You can see, sir," replied the lawyer. "Miss Patterson is
evidently not disposed to comply with your son's proposal."'
"Leave this house, then, you hussy!" roared the infuriated
old man. "My John is not to be spurned for nothing, and by
)a beggar. Leave the house !"
"Miss Patterson has a legal right to remain here long enough.
to remove her personal effects," firmly replied the lawyer.
"And my house is open to her."       .
" Thanks-thanks !" exclaimed Ida. "Let me- leave these
detestable people immediately."
"But, miss," the younger Spencer began.
"Not a word, sir!" interrupted Ida. "I might have married
you to have gratified my poor father, but not to save my own.
life, now that lie is gone."
Taking the lawyer's arn, she left- the room with him, and
before night, was comfortably installed in his comfortable little
dwelling, having only taken her wardrobe and a few cherished
souvenirs. A few days afterwards, the following advertisement
appeared in the " Evening Star :"
" WANTED.-A place as governess, by 'a young lady who is
thoroughly versed ,in the English, French and German lan-
guages, and is also a good musician. Apply to Alfred Whitson,
.Esq., No. 68 Wall street.n"'

70

YEARS passed, and Clement Spencer, or, as he now- called.
himself, Clement Clayton, was battling for existence on the..
waves of Parisian humanity, where the struggler must make for
some secure haven, or sink to perish. .It was well, perhaps.
that-he was thus forced to toil for subsistence, as the exigencies.
of his situation diverted his thoughts from the trials through
which he had passed; yet his lot was a hard one.
He had adopted literature as a pursuit, and at first was fortu-
nate enough to obtain a position as private secretary to an Eng-
lish gentleman, who was making historical researches concerning
the reign of Napoleon. He was a kind-hearted though severe
employer, and. steadily was Clement forced to toil on through
masses of manuscript, copying what was pertinent to the subject,
and actually shaping it for a place in the work .in progress.
But the young man brought the treasures of his lofty intellect
to aid him in the task, and gradually his countenance began to
resume its former serenity. At last he was sent by his employer
to different archives in France, and it was on returning from
one of these fact-harvesting excursions that he found himself
without a master. Death had arrested the author; the book
was suspended, and the man-of-all-work was again destitute.
Sad were the privations which he endured for months, but
just as famine was about to clutch him with her skeleton hand,
he obtained a situation as proof-reader in'an English printing-
office. Among other pirated works published was "Irving's
Sketch Book,'' and it was while poring over the proofs that he
became fired with literary ambition. All day he would, toil at
his desk, and then at night seek to convey to paper his own
ideas. He would write a book on Paris itself-a book .which
would reflect "La Grande Ville " as in a mirror, with pleasing
fidelity, and yet be worthy an honorable place. upon the shelves
of a library. The task was not an easy.one,.yet he worked at
it resolutely. Often, after the humiliations and toils of his

.* -'$
A

THEWEST POINT CADET.
CHAPTER XIV.
PAR1S AND A PRISON.

us
U 014

A

0


T1E -WAST POINT' CADET.

72:

regular employment, where he was exposed to the angry taunts
of every compositor in.whose "proof" he marked many errors,
would he pen such sentences as only can portray Parisian life.
To him the metropolis of Charlemagne, and of Champagne, noble
and sparkling, was a pedestal upon which he could not fail to
erect a proud monument.1
At last the work was'completed, and sent to a London pub-
lisher. Was it to be accepted?. For days and for weeks he
waited a reply, and at length it came. The manuscript was
returned, and the next day there came to the printing-office
advance sheets of a precisely similar work, by a noted English
author. His darling idea had been pirated--nay, his employer_
had been requested to find him ~out, and silence him as to the'.
theft. lie did so, by discharging him. How dared a proof-
reader of his to attempt a book!
Out of employment again, he grew thinner and paler, feeling,
moreover, a cynical contempt for literary fame. COccasionally
he obtained some copying; then some French printing-office
needed an English proof-reader, or some Parisian shop-keeper -
paid Jhim for a course of lessons in the language of the best
customers. But when lodgings, and fuel, and food, and clothes
were paid for, little remained of these precarious earnings.
Turning over the newspapers one morning, he saw an adver-
tisement, for "-a secretary who understood drawing and the
English language." Hastening to the address given, he found
that it was froman American, who'wished to introduce several
new patents into France, and he easily obtained the situation.
A great man was General Fulcrum, his new employer-thaf
is, the general thought so himself. He had unquestionably
somie- valuable inventions, although it was not so clear that he
had first discovered them, but his cash capital was very scanty,
as Clement found to his sorrow. What was more annoying
than anything else, was the-coolness with which he put his owna
name on Clement's carefully executed drawings, though he.
obtained the young man's autograph on the back of certain
promissory notes, "just to cai'ry on operations."  '-
France was then in a troubled state, as Louis Philippe was '
busy in getting up the revolution which gave him his throne,
and the general found. few willing to invest in his invent ions.
At last his exchequer became exhausted, and when Clement went'
to work one morning, with a full determination to have his
arrearages paid or seek other employment, he found himself

-arrested for debt. . General Fulcrum - had left for Russia, with
his drawings and models; so the rapacious creditors pounced
upon Clement, who had'heedlessly'endorsed his employer's bills
of exchange, and was, thus liable to a large amount.
"Take nothing from nothing, and nothing remains," was his
reply to the vociferous. demands made upon him. But the
creditors had been confidently informed by the general that his
endorsing secretary was eccentric enough to'like work, yet was
very rich. So Clement was sent to the Hotel de Clichy.
It was a new scene in his drama of life, that Parisian debtor's
goal, and he now saw that-his cherished look had not been per-
feet. The small space enclosed by those high walls was itself a
.world. 'Nobles and gamblers, jurists and proffigates,.veteran
officers and beardless exquisites were there, each a victim to
some unsuccessful turn of fortune's wheel. It was, in factta
caravansary, or large boarding-house, the inmates - of which
.were on sociable terms with each other, and were disposed to
enjoy the maintenance which their creditors were forced to pro-
ride for them while in "durance vile."
Ere Clement had been long in prison, he noticed that there
was an unusually large number of veteran officers among his
companions. Every one of them had served under Napoleon,
and now, grown old and wasted in glory, they were apparently
" poor debtors," while the favorites of the Bourbons rolled in
riches. Dearly did they, love to recount the glories of the
"Empire," when they had aided in bearing in triumph the tri-
colored flag from one extremity of Europe to' the other, until it
sank at Waterloo. Nor was it long before Clement, unacquainted
as he was with French- politics, saw that some great 'crisis was
at hand.
Beranger, a poet-prisoner, was in fact the apostle of this new
revolution, and Clement happening to win his favor, soon had
the pleasure of copying his verses, which were distributed in
manuscript as -the best seeds of revolt. The, poet knew the
-character of his countrymen, and spoke alike to their senses,-to
'Their passions, and to their appetites. Combining the talents of
Anacreon 'and Tyrtarus, he wore a double crown of thorny lau-.
rels and of thornless roses. All ages ftnd something to admire
in his varied stanzas-the young girl and the, old soldier, the
peasant and the i-evolutionist. Alf drank from the cup of love
'and of liberty which his songs'presented,-and all who read: or

r

-73

THE WEST POINT CADfET.

T


"THE WEST POINT CADET.

sang those songs-felt fixed upon their hearts a profound contempt
for -the Bourbon occupant of the throne.
. While copying these revolutionary lyrics in Beranger's room,
Clement became acquainted with most of the officers in prison,
among them General de Guyon, one of the bravest of Napoleon's
braves. It wassaid that the general was one of the old nobility,
who fell under the ban of Robespierre' and came near losing his
head on the guillotine. At any rate, he lost his. property, his
estate. and his wife--the latter having madeher escape with
most of his available property to America. He never sought
her-never expressed a desire to enjoy either her society or his
own wealth again; but he entered - Napoleon's army as a- cap-
tain, and with a cynical contempt for life, had so distinguished
himself as to command a brigade when the star of his master
paled at Waterloo.
One morning, Beranger came to Clement's room-for there
was no restraint within the prison walls-and gave him a song,
which he had just written, with a request that he would make
as many copies as possible -before night. It was that verse-
concealed Invitation to Louis Philippe, commencing:  '

"Ah! if by chance some cavalier,
Loving and loyal, should appear,
And triumph o'er the jailor. here
Who guards me in this turret drear-
How I should bless that cavalier."

As the poet not-only softened the rigor of Clement's prisonlife
by his kindness, but insisted on remunerating him for his labors,
the young man set to work. All that. day did he write, and
the shades of night were drawn around the prison, when his
pen-weary fingers refusedto toil longer. Taking his copies, he
went to Beranger's room, but it was vacant. The night was a
pleasant one, so -he stepped out on a small, balcony before the
window, which, commanded a view of the city. A-large chair
invited him to sit down, and yielding to the influence of the
hour, he unconsciously dropped asleep. When he awoke, he
heard voices in'the room, and without intending to do so, he
became a listener.
"My friends," said a voice which he recognized as that of
General de Guyon,. "I am glad that this farce is nearly over. It
is amusing,.I grag, to thus deceive the Bourbon minions, and
to be able to mature our plans in the very heart of Paris with-

I,
!j

THE. WEST POINT CADET.

75

.out suspicion. Yet for one I find the prison air difficult to
breathe. I meet you and we laugh at our police'foes, who little
think that the debts for which we are confined were contracted
expressly to get within these walls. But when night comes-
when all is quiet, other prison scenes recall themselves. I think
of my wife,, whose existence is a mystery since I was dragged
to the tribunal-of the ill-fated, queen, Marie Antoinette-and
of those days when every morning a hecatomb of fellow-prisoners
were dragged to the guillotine, there to pay the penalty of rev-
olutionary excess. 0, my friends, let us hasten this business !"
"And I," exclaimed Beranger, "I, who love sparkling wine
and gay society, find. it hard 'to - beat my wings against cage
bars."
"Yet the nightingale sings sweetest when confined," answered.
another.
"A truce to pleasantry," said a deep voice. "I learn that the
press is to be muzzled to-morrow; if so, the hour is at hand. At
any rate I have drawn up a final plan of action, and will read it."
The truth had flashed upon Clement. The leaders of a pro-
jected revolution, watched by the police, had procured their
own arrests for debt, and thus were enabled to plot in security.
But it would not be honorable for ,him to remain a listener,,.
Announcing himself by a cough, he rose, and entered the room.
"Betrayed I" was the exclamation of half a dozen, while all
sprang to their feet, as if moved by an electric shock.
"Monsieur Beranger," said Clement, "I came here to bring
you these songs. You were not here, and going. out to enjoy
the evening air, I fell asleep. Your voices awoke me, nor. have
I lost time in ceasing to play the part of a listener."
"Are you an Englishman?" asked the individual who was
about to read the plans of insurrection.
"No," exclaimed general de.Guyon; "lhe is an American!I"
"An American !" replied the questioner. "We can trust him,
then, for his native land enjoys the blessings for which. we
are about to sti'ike. Young man, your hand. My name is
Lafayette !"

It

4
I


706

THE WEST POINT CADET.

/

0 CHAPTER~

2KV.

A POLITICIAN'S HOME.
WLI;E Clement was thus whirled about in the maelstrom of
Parisian life, Ida Patterson enjoyed the tranquil calm of planta-
tion life on the dark blue water-edge of the Gulf of Mexico. It
was one of those sea-islands separated from the main land by the
low swamps of the "delta," 'covered by impervious thickets of
cane and sedge, which rendered all access impossible. But
approach it by- a boat, and it seemed like fairy-land--.the very
place to have attracted the gay Frenchman who first occupied it
and founded a feudal home. The mansion was a quaint,irregu-
lar structure, or rather collection of structures, surrounded by'
broad connecting verandahs, which were enclosed with green
blinds. Woodbines and honeysuckles clustered over the building,
extending to the very chimney-tops with their graceful tendrils.
And in front of the wide hall door, sloping towards the gently
swelling waves of'the gulf, was a green lawn,'dotted with groups
of shrubbery.
It was the ancestral home of the Ledroits, and the head of
the establishment, at the time whereof we write, was the widow
of a brave officer who fought and fell at New-Orleans. A stately
and very beautiful woman was Madame Ledroit, managing the
colony around her with a spirit andlnethod which showed that
she not only thought, but had a right to think well of herself.
On no plantation were the negroes happier or more industrious,
the crops larger or more marketable, or the supplies distributed
with less waste, and the Ledroit brand oii a hogshead of sugar
made it always worth an additional 'half cent a pound at New
Orleans, at any day.
Neither was it strange that the son of such -a mother, the heir
to such an estate, had. been chosen at the earliest possible age
to represent his native State in the senate of the republic. It
was but an additional reason to the true-hearted matron why
6he should continue to manage the plantation, though another's
comfort was also.to be taken into consideration. The seclusion

TiE WEST POINT CADET.        -7
ifk especlaly grateful to her other child-her deforni&amp; yet
darling daughter Isabel.
It was as a companion and govrness to this unfortunate young
girl that Ida Patterson had become an inmate of the house which
we have just, described. At first the task was a difficult one,
for her petted charge stubbornly refused to study; but Ida per-
severed with stoic resolution, and conquered by gentleness alone.
In return, the afficted .girl's confidence repaid Ida, and Madame
Ledroit's kindness soothed her lacerated heart. Yet'she was
no longer the gay, light-hearted beauty. The patient, self-sac-
rificing governess wa§ another person from the frivolous heiress,
ard the very expression of her face was changed. The flush
had left her cheek, and the dancing smile het lip, yet there was
a thoughtful beauty on her attenuated countenance which more
than compensated for their loss,
She had heard that Clement Spencer had. been swept into the
raging ocean, and she knew that his friend Clement mourned
for him as one dead; yet, somehow, she never could entertain
the thought. In spite of all her darkened hopes, and of all her
hopeless fears, the dear dream would sometimes come-sleeping
and waking-that Clvnent was alive; ay, that he loved her, and
that the sunlight of her first love would yet be the mid-day
brightness of her life.
It was not to be wondered at that Ida Patterson not only won
the affections of her pupil, but of thematronly head of the es-
tablishment. She found in the young governess her beau-ideal.
of a woman, and as years confirmed her good opinion,she began
to think that she could love the friendless orphan as a 'daughter.
Indeed, it was a matterof great uneasiness to her that her son
had never, anid the excitements of political life, thought of mat-
rimony. Who so fit to "love and cherish" him, in his proud
career, as- the gentle, patient Ida-the very life, too, of the un-P
fortunate Isabel? At length, so strong were her convictions
that it would be for the happiness of all concerned, she deter-
mined to mention it to her son when he next came home.
Alas ! when he next came, it was to find his mother on the
brink of the grave. A sudden yet dangerous illness had pros-
trated her, and when her anxiously expected son arrived, the
lamp of her life seemed flickering in its socket. Yet, like the
last glimmer of an expiring taper, she appeared to recover health
and strength as she grasped the hand of her darling boy. What
happiness to gaze once more on his dear face!

VIP

1.

*


THE WEST POINT CADET.

"Leave us," said the Invalid, in a faint voice. "I would speak
to my son."
The anxious group went out, but in a few moments they were
recalled by a fearful cry from the very heart of the sorrowing
son. Hastening back, they found him prostrate on the floor,
while on the bed lay the lifeless rem.dns of his another. The
angel of death had flung the dark shadow of his wing over her,
as she was communicating the last earthly wish of her soul to
her son. There was no trace of suffering upon her fade, and
she lay in "the rapture of repose."
Isabel, sustained by the composing counsels of Ida Patterson,
bowed meekly beneath the stroke; but the bereaved son, with
all his philosophy, writhed under it in insupportable agony.
Remaining in the solitude of his own room (except at meal
times), for weeks no smile crossed his countenance, and he would
sit at his window forhours, gazing vacantly upon the broad ex-
panse of waters, but not-regarding the objects on it, for a wild,
gulf of thought was surging within his own troubled heart.
Yet when his sister Isabel at last enticed him into the quiet
itting-room where she passed her time with her governess, and
he saw the estimable qualities of Ida Patterson, a change seemed
to come over the spirit of his day-dreams.' Soon he found him..
self never content unless near her, listening to catch her slight-
est word, though schooling his tongue to cold courtesy, while
his heart was all a-glow. At last the decisive moment arrived.
"Brother,"saido Isabel Ledroit, one morning, "1 have had a
letter from old Mrs. Wortley this morning, and what do you
suppose she proposes ?"
"Indeed I can't say," was the answer.
"Why, she says that as, of course, Miss ,Patterson cannot
remain at a bachelor's establishment, she would like to engage
her' as governess to those frightful little nieces of hers. What
coolness!"
This remark, innocently as it was made, went to Ida Patterson's
very heart. She had never dreamed that there was any impro-
priety in her remaining at the plantation, and yet it fiashe dupon
her mind that the world would censure her. Was she to go
forth again, like the dove from the ark, to seek a haven of rest ?
Mr. Ledreit was also struck by the evident worldly impropri-
ety of Ida's reniaining there, and what added to'his trouble was
her eviden embarrassment. Could it be, he thought (with that
vanity which men do possess), that she loved him ? Hlad he'

THE WEST POINT CADET.

79

gained her affections? And what was his duty? In vain did Ida
make an attempt at forced cheerfulness, though she little thought
what agony was. sweeping like a whirlwind through the heart
whose workings were concealed by the cold, proud brow before
her.
When breakfast was over, Mr. Ledroit went into the library,
where he-sat down in heartfelt misery. The threads of fate
seemed tangled in inextricable confusion around him, and it
was in vain that he sought to penetrate into the mysterious
future. The door opened, and Ida Patterson entered.
"Excuse me," said she; "I came for a book."
"Nay," exclaimed Mr. Ledroit; "Providence has sent you
hither. Sit down, Miss Patterson, and bear me."
Ida obeyed mechanically.
" Miss Patterson," said Mr. Ledroit, as he toolc a chair and
sat directly before her, "I have sought this interview since my
poor mother's death, yet have not found the moral courage to
ask it of you. It was her wish-her last wish-that I should
offer you my hand. But alas! my dear Miss Patterson, the fatal
obstacle must now be told. I-I have already plighted my faith
at God's holy altar."
" Thank heaven!"' exclaimed Ida. "My heart is also an-
other's, but now I can love you as a father."
"As a father !" said Mr. Ledroit, with surprise.
Never had he dreamed but the dependentt governess, who
was without home or friends, had loved another, or could not
love him. Never had he dreamed that she would have been too
glad to reciprocate his love.. And now she merely aid.that she
could feel a childlike affection for him.
" Miss Patterson," said he, "perhaps you misunderstood. -me.
I was married, though my poor mother knew it not. But she
to whom I plighted my early love has long slumbered in the
tomb. Can I not love again?"
"I know not," replied Ida, lifting her eyes with such a sweet,
sad smile that he yielded to the enchantment. "But I never,
never can."
" Do I know the object of' your love ?"
" No; indeed I fear that he is in another and a bett&amp; world."
'The mystery was solved; the gentle governess loved another,
.and could not be his. Then came the thou ght, w as, it not better
that it should be so ? Would it not be an offence against his first

78

I.

'4

IAT

1~'

I
I


80

THE WEST POINT CADET.

7"
r

pure love to offer. another the heart which was once her
Sown ?
"Mr. Ledroit," W  'id Ida, her eyes filling with tears, "I came
here a friendless orphan, and found comfort in the love of your
mother and your sister. Can I not so remain-the friend of
poor Isabel as of yourself, ready to show her, by endeavoring
to supply her mother's place, how grateful I am for the privi-
lege of so doing? And -you,sir-you"who introduced:me, here,
you, who have ever treated me so kiri'dly-mO, let me be to you
as a daughter, loving you-yes, loving you with a love pure as
that of the angels with whom your sainted mother now looks
down upon us "
Flinging himself on his knees' at her feet, the proud politician
asked her forgiveness. He told her of his early love, of its
trials, of its sad termination by the death- of his wife before he
could even present her to his mother. A child, too, had been
for years his secret comfort, when it was mercilessly snatched
away by death. Thenceforth his heart was sealed, until he
saw her, when he began to feel again the influence of love. In'
vaiin did he battle with the temptation, so blinding was the
'fascination. Then came the sad scene of his mother's death-
bed, and her will was added to his own heart-desire. He felt
wretched; he saw -the remedy at hand. It was well, perhaps,
that he could not succeed, for a union might have been a source
of misery to both, and now he only asked to be permitted to
love her as 'a brother.
"No, no," replied Ida; "not as a brother, but as a .father.
Such is your love for Isabel, although-she is your sister, for you
are much her senior in years.I Let us be sisters, and' you can
find in us kind daughters, who will seek to scatter flowers of
pleasantness over your pathway through life."
"As- you please," he' answered, rising "to his feet, and feeling
a great weight removed from his heart. "Perhaps it is for the
.best."
"I am sure it Is," wa Ida's decided reply; and the entrance
of 'Ida put a stop' to further conversation.
A few weeks afterwards, he left again for Wasington ,and
in due time a kind old gentleman and his wife-distant con-
nexions 'of Isabel's-were installed at the plantation.
Orne day, after the arrival. of the mail, Ida was carelessly
looking over a New York paper, when her eye was arrested by
the following paragraph : '

7.

CHAPTER XVI.

. REVOLUTION AND A RECRUIT.

"AnI! arm!" The cry echoed from one extriemity of Paris
to the other, and that evening every prisoner in the debtor's gaol
found himself at liberty. It was a clear, starry night; and as
Clement accompanied'his friends to their headquarters, he found
every street alive with busy workers. Trees were cut down and
paving stones were torn up to form barricades across the streets;
and at one of these, whether completed or irrprocess of construc-
tion, sentinels kept careful watch. Men and women, haggard fish-
wives and sprucely-dressed students, wrought like demons at
these extemporaneous fortifications, and occsionally the gun-
smiths "plied their rattling trade " by the light of blazing torch-
es, as they repaired the weapons for the morrow's fight. 'The
appearance of Lafayette and De Guyon, with a staff of veterans,
was hailed with cheers. The people welcomed their old leaders,
and swore that they would, follow them until France was free.
When day dawned, the city was so fortified and defended that
i could not have been taken by a million of armed mea. What
few royal troops there were hesitated and faltered; but the popu-
0

THE WEST POINT CADET.                81
uFUNERAL.-There was a large attendance 'of our first
citizens yesterday, at the funeral of the late John Spencer, Esq.
His untiring industry and persevering business ability are well
known in the community, and he has left a large estate to his
son and partner. We learn, by the way, that the younger Mr.
Spencer was last week to have been married to the wealthy
Mrs. Eastburn, and suppose that this combination of the two
largest fortunes in the fourth Ward will not long be delayed.
Mi-s. Eastburn, it will be remembered, owns the ten -rock
estates at Bloomingdale, and the coal mines of. Mr. Spencer
alone are estimated worth a million of dollars."
Not long after this, Mr. Ledroit came to the plantation to
make a brief visit, yet did not even remain. as long as he had
originally intended.
"1I am untangling a web of villany," said he, the night before
he left, "after having vainly sought the, clue for years."

* '~,'~'* ~'

I
I

1


0-0
82              THE WEST POINT CADET.
lace was full of rage and determination, while even the more
sober citizens were breathless  with agitation. Bloodshed was
inevitable, nor was it long before the deadly conflict commenced,
every ward resounding with the rattling fire of musketry and
the roar of cannon.
The plan of Genergl de Guyon was followed to the letter.
Column after column, officered by the ardent plytechic
studeLts,jmarched against barrack, and palace, and guard-house,
waving the tri-color in triumph; and easily subduing the fatigued
and half-famished troops. Or did the royalist officers attempt to
urge their men against the barricaders, women would hurl from
the windows paving-stones, bricks, or their household furniture,
regardless of the balls which would often strike down the
mother by the side of her child's cradle. Night came, and the
people 'were triumphant, although afew of the fortified barracks
held out. While the soldiers buried the dead, the officers held
a. council of war.
General de Guyon claimed the right, as the originator of the
movements so successful, to head the attack against what was
considered the strongest position occupied by the royalist troops.
It was a fortified guard-house opposite the Palais Royal, and was
occupied by several companies of the Swiss Guard, well provided
with ammunition and having two ,pieces of cannon. The boon
was granted; and no sooner was it known that the-old veteran
was to head the assault, than volunteers began to arrive at the
Place Vendome, where he established his headquarters. Many a
cordial greeting was interchanged between old battle-comrades,
who had fought side by side on, hard-fought fields, and who now
.were "again in arms and eager for the fray."
Soon after daylight, t4 general reviewed his forces, and started
for the scene of action in admirable order. Everything about the
guard-house was silent as the grave, until the head .of the
column was within about a hundred yards of it, when a blaze of
fire ran along its front, and clouds of white smoke curled upward, '
as a tremendous discharge of musketry -and cannister-shot
mowed down the assailants. '
"I 'orward ! forward !" shouted General de Guyon; and onward
pushed the masses, while from the guard-house rang out the roar
of the field-pieces, and the ringing discharge of -the musketry,
drowning the groans of the wounded and dying. "Forward!
forward !" On thle revolptionists pushed, with invincible resolui

]

11

tion, determined to conquer or die. The building was reached,

THE WEST POINT CADET.

83

and then, with a cheer that was the funeral requiem of the Bour,
bon dynasty, the thick doors were burst open. Onward pressed
the impetuous assailants, and soon the entire building was
taken.
That night Lafayett e was installeeI at the Hotel de Ville, and
prominent-in the throng around him were General de Guyon
and his young- aid-de-camp, Cleient Clayton. By carrying
orders in the thickest of the fight, and gallantly heading the
storming .party, the young American had won much applause.
"A trained soldier," they said,"' could not have manceuvered his
command with more decision."
All at once conversation was hushed. It was evident that
something had occurred, and soon the well-known voice ot
General de Guyon was heard.
"Citizens," said he, "we have among us Louis Philippe, duke
of Orleans, to whom it is proposed to tender the crown of France,
if he will govern in accordance with a free constitution. Can
this be so?"
Silence reigned. There was po enthusiasm-no cheering, and
Lafayette had it in his power to have declared himself in favor
of a republic. But the wily Louis Philippe had already entered
into conversation with the honest "farmer of La Grange," and
so worked upon his feelings by well-timed allusions to his past
fame, that he, without consultation, led him out upon the
balcony, 'and presented him to the assembled multitude.
"Here," said Lafayette, "is the best of republics !'  And the
fickle Parisians, with long-resounding shouts, hailed a new
master who was to prove even more desp 'otic than the old one
-who was in his turn to be driven from the throne.
Order was at once restored, but Clement found himself again
destitute. 'General de Guyonihad left in disgust, and was sup-
posed'to be travelling in Germany, nor could the young man ob-
tain any position from the new government, which he had played
such a prodilnent part in establishing. Had he not been able to
write graphic letters which weie taken aid adoptedd" by the
"regular correspondent" of the London Times, he would have
starved. In return, the correspondent graciously gave him
ab out one quarter of the amount paid hith, finding at the same
time a great deal of fault for that which he received great praise
for.
'Late one afternoon, as Clement sat endeavoring to concoct ai
letter describing the re-organization of the army, he felt

V

Irk
I E


f

THE WEST POINT CADETS

unusually dispirited. Winter was approaching, and he saw' nd
chance of bettering his almost destitute condition. There was
a knock at the door.
Enter !" he exclaimed, and sprang to his feet to welcome
his visitor. "Why, Harry Lawson, how are you?"
It was a young English painter with whom he had been
acquainted for some time.
Well, Clement. But you look as sad and gloomy as though
you had not a friend in the world."
"Neither have I many."
What matter? Why have the blues about it? Bear up, my
good fellow, and quit these melancholy musings. Next thing
your morbid imagination will take the reins of your mind, and
drive you headlong into despair."
"There is no imagination about my position," said Clement,
shaking his head mournfully, and casting his eyes about the
half-furnished, miserable room. "All is stern reality."
Well, I admit-that you have been somewhat unlucky of late;
so have 1. The stranger who ordered that copy of Murillo was-
probably frightened away by the revolution, and no one has even
asked the price of those pictures of mine at the frame-dealer's.
Yet I don't give up."
"Give up !" cried Clement. "Is it not best to give up when
one is in my condition? I could laugh at difficulties like yours
-I have laughed at them. But mine is a sadder" harder fate.
Reared in the lap of luxury, I became a beggared outcast-how,
I may some day tell you-and from that tine I have strugged
and writhed under the torments of poverty. When this revolution
broke out, and I fancied that]: was about to rise in my leg itimate
profession, a cloud again overshadowed the sun of my hopes,.and
I am again in the anaconda-like grasp of debt and poverty."
"But, Clement."
" Hear me out !" exclaimed the wretched young man. "Was
my name pure and unstained as is my soul-was I in such a
position that no man's poisonous breath could taint my reputa-
tion after death, then I could court death. 'But f'or years, Harry',
have I striven to obtain a position whence I could silence certain
venomed tongues which poisoned my early life. They doubtless
think me dead; but 'tis the thought of conquering their malice
-of standing erect in m4 native land as their peer, which stays
my hand-which prevents my ending a most miserable life." .
" Tut, tut, Clement, This will never do. Have faith, and don't

I

A4

armor, energy; arm thyself ambition.; put on thy iron gaunt-

TYIE WEST POINT CADET.               85
let your feelings destroy your energies. You are no worse off
than I am, and-perhaps may take the same panacea."
"What is that ?"
"Listen, and I will tell you. It was for that I came. But it is
getting to be dark. Suppose we adjourn to a coffee-house ?"
"Agreed," said Clement, with a sigh. "I wish I had your
philosophy and buoyancy of feelings."
The two friends went out into the gay streets, and were soon
enjoying some excellent coffee together.
"Now, Clement," said Lawson, "listen to me. Like you, I am
miserably poor and not over content with my lot. This great
metropolis, with its villany and-its dishonesty, is distasteful. I
would fain hear the trumpets ring out their loud blasts, and
rush into the fight, anxious for death or an honorable life."
"Ay!" exclaimed Clement, his cheeks flushing with enthusi-
asm, and his eye kindling at the impassioned tone of his friend.
"Such a life would be glorious; but where can it be followed?
How and where can the field be taken ?"
"Enlist."
"What ! become a machine-a puppet, to mount guard before
a palace, or oppose popular liberty? I would rather die!"
" Right. But there is a land,.Clemient, where the soldier 'is
not a mere machine. It is the land of Hannibal and of Jugurtha."
"What! Algeria ?"
"Even so. The new dynasty has determined to perpetuate the
conquest of Charles the Tenth, and to subjugate the warlike
tribes of Saracens who now inhabit it. A new army is now
being raised, and in it there is -to be a legion composed exclu-
sively of foreigners. Why can we not enlist together, And visit
that romantic land as comrades, we who have ever been friends ?"
" We can," said Clement, holding out his hand, which Harry
grasped and shook cordially.
"And when?"
" To-morrow, Harry, to-morrow. As the great poet says, " If
'tis to be done, when 'tis~ done, then 'tis well 'twere done
quickly.' Come to my room early; we will breakfast together,
and then sign the roll."
"good !" exclaimed the delightediartist. " Our bounty money
will pay our debts, purchase some few luxuries, and then hiuzza
for Africa 1"
"Yes, yes. Let the sti'uggle again commence. Gird on thy

V
'1
V
3(3

I
1'
I


80

lets, all-powerful will. The citadel may yet be carried. Hope's
flag gleams from the battlements, and faith will win the victory."
"Till to-morrow morning, Clement, adieu!" And the friends
parted for the night.
CHAPTER XVII.
THE TIDE/ TURNS.
THE chasseurs of AfricaI Never did six hundred and ninety.-
eight braver men cross the war-tracked Mediterranean, than
those new comrades of Clement and Harry Lawson. They were
the only representatives of the Anglo-Saxon race, but there was
no lack of fair-haired Germans, stoical Swiss, daring Poles, wild-
looking Italians, with a majority of Frenchmen.- Most of the
foreigners were mere vagabonds, too indolent to earn an honest
livelihood at home, and exiled for political or social crimes. To
them the legion was a common-sewer, wherein the scum of
society drifted; but it was different -with the French recruits.
Most of these were young men, many thrown adrift by the
recent revolution, who looked upon themselves as carrying the
musket only until they could wear the epaulette. No oppor-
tunity was suffered to pass which would qualify them for pro-
motion without improving it; and during the pleasant passage,
not only tactics but engineering were ordinary topics of dis-
cussion. Why not? Promotion is open to every:Frenehman,
and the private feels with pride that he in turn may command,
The path of glory is open to all.
At last the shores of Africa appeared. in sight, and the trans-
port let go her anchor in the harbor of Algiers. All was life on
board. The men WYN in full uniform, and grasped their muskets;
officers were telling off their squads for disembarking, and the
band was playing the inspiring notes of the "Marseilles Hymn."
On landing, a varied scene presented itself as the legion filed
through the narrow streets. There were the thick-lipped negro
indigenous to the land-the gaunt, bright-eyed Arab, hi go-
queror, and the bold Frenchman, who in his turn was becoiscn-g
lord of the soil,; Jews, bent on trafIfic ; haughty Turks, loaded
with arms; graceful Greeks, in flowing fustanelles; -veiled
.women, carrying water. from the. fountains:; trains of loaded
camels, and other .novel sights,almost bewildered thenewly-

THE WEST POINT CADET*

A

I

THE  WEST POT CADET.

I

8s7

arrived Europeans. But they had little time for observatbna,
as the column to which they were detailed had already left, and
was encamped a few miles out.
The chasseurs were, generally speaking, delighted, with this
prospect of being led at once into action; and as they approached
the main body, they sang a wild war-song in .chorus with the
rolling drums, making the time with their onward tramp. When
they reached the campthey-found the regiments under arms to
receive them, and were welcomed with loud cheers as-they filed
. past to take their place onuthe extreme right-the post of honor.
That night all wasImerriment around the blazing watchfires.
Some came to obtain from the newly-arrived chasseurs news
from home; others to offer them a soldier's welcome, and to
drain the flasks - of the sutlers until they were empty. Every
one had his questions to ask, or his song to sing, or his story to
tell, and it was near daybreak ere they lay down around the
-smouldering watch-fires.
' The inspiring notes 6f the reveille restored animation to the
bivouac. Baggage was packed, the orderlies bustled about, and
soon the long column was in motion. At its. head were the chas-
seurs, in their dark green uniforms, and marching with their
light step to the sound of their martial clarions. Ere they had
marched a league, there was a sudden quarrel between two
sergeants of the company in which Clement and Harry had
been drafted. Some old grudge had been revived; words led to
,blows; and when the pugnacious combatants were ordered to
the rear, Clement and his friend were ordered.to fill their places.
"I told you so!" cried Harry. "Here we are, promoted the
very first day. Keep up good courage, and all will yet be well.?
Clement was indeed in his element, and rising to the post of
orderly sergeant, his company was soon distinguished for its
high discipline, and for the correctness with which it performed
the difficult evolutions of the intricate drill. Military training in
early life is sure to betray itself, and Clement found himself
treated as an equal by his officers,-While his comrades respected
his superior soldiership.
Onward moved the column, its martia.J music echoing among
steep hills and prefipitous ravines, while before them retreated
the Arabs, :as the eagles flee -to the mountains, or the tigers to
tihe jungles. Buit as. the invaders entered the broad plains
before Constantinla, the horsemen would ride boldly up to the
troops, firing their long muskets as. they advanced.. Then,

-


THE WEST POINT CADET.

THE WEST POINT CADkT.

eS

drawing their sclmetars, and calling upon Allah, they would fall
fiercely upon the troops, who would halt, form squares, and fire,
while the agile chasseurs would harass the foe. Let the Arabs
collect in inasses for the purpose of riding down these sharp-
shooters, and the , light artillery would pour forth such a
desolating storm of grapeshot, that the assailants would take
flight.. The skirmish was ended.
Two or .three of these attacks each day, with an occasional at-
tempt at;surprise during the night, enlivened the tedious march;
and, in- due time the column reached the city to be attacked.
Then was it that the leader of the expedition arrived, escorted
by a company of spahis, or native horsemen, and there was
great curiosity to see. who had been sent as a commander. The
field-pieces thundered forth a salute, 'the bands played, and as
the general passed down. the line, welcomed by loud shouts,
Clement's heart beat high with - joy. It was the veteran De
Guyon. The wily Louis Philippe had won his allegiance by
offering this coveted command.
The arranged plans for storming the city of Constantina were
approved, with some slight amendments, by General.de Guyon.
The chasseurs. led the van, and on the captains drawing lots for
the " forlorn hope," it was won by the company of which Clement
was orderly sergeant. Onward they went, with noiseless steps,
silent tongues and palpitating hearts, creeping, up the craggy
height until beneath the low walls of the fortress. So near were
they, that they could .distinctly hear the tramp . of the un-
suspecting sentries. The stillness of death prevailed among the
chasseurs, though the long and hard-drawn breath of the men,
the nervous grasp with which they held their rifles, with sword
bayonets fixed, and their eager attention for the signal, showed
that their nerves were: well braced for the coming encounter.,
Up went the-signal rocket. The drums on every hand beat
the charge, and the measured tread of the different regiments
advancing at double quick time, broke on the silence. of the
still night, while within the fort all was confusion as the men
hastened to their guns. The chasseurs remained 'Where they had
been posted, eager for the fray, but too well disciplined to move.
" Down, my braves--down 1" shouted Clement. And scarcely
was the command obeyed, when. bright flashes shone forth from
the embrazure above them, followed- by the reports of the-gun6
as the grapeshlot crashed down through the, olive trees on the
advancing troops. ." Now then! Onward !'

$

And with a cheer which rang high above the sharp volleys of
musketry, the chasseurs leaped, like so many cats, up into the
fortress. Now came the deadly strife, as bayonet gleamed against
scimetar, and yataghan flashed against sword. Then came the
din, the crash, the cry for quarter, and the agonizing sbrieks of
the wounded, the chasseurs dashing madly forward, and the'
Arabs resisting with the stubborn courage of men fighting for
their homes.
In the struggle, Clement saw advancing towards them, in the
dim light of the morning, a green banner, one of the sacred
ensigns of /Mahomet. "Forward-forward !" he shouted, and
soon was at the side of the standard bearer, who defended his,
trust with desperate valor. The conflict was of short duration,
and Clement, with the captured standard in one hand, and
reeking sword-bayonet in the other, rejoined his company, who
received him with shouts of admiration.
Now the French columns found their way into the fortress,
and the deadly strife commenced, the chasseurs leading the van,
with the green flag just -captured by Clement -waving in their
midst. To the wildgshouts of conflict-the crash, the din, the
tumult of the fight-an irregular fire now ensued, as the Arabs
retreated within the barracks of the citadel.
Just then, up galloped General de Guyon, and in an instant
he ordered the light artillery to the spot. A volley from their
pieces knocked the barrack doors into splinters, and he was
about to order a charge, when a shot from the barracks struck
his arm, and he sank forward on the neck of his horse.
"No more fighting for me to-day," said he, as Clement sprang
to his side. "But give the word to advance."
" Forward! Revenge your general!" cried Clement, with a
spirit-stirring energy that was answered by a shout from the
chasseurs. They rushed into the barracks like an ocean wave,
and the defeated foe were swept away like the drifting fragments
of a wrecked frigate. In vain did the enemy resist, with bigoted
courage; the chasseurs dashed madly forward where the foe
stood thickest, and soon the victory was won.
The Frenelh occup ied .Constantina, the proud citadel of Mos-
lem tyranny, but fearful was the price paiti for it in human. blood.
Among the mortally wounded was Harry Lawson, and when
Clement found him, he was ghastly pale, the. blood streaming
from a fearful sabre-cut on his head, though his countenance
wore the pleasant smile of 'other days. Raising him on one

so

I,.

.0


.'THE fWEST- POINT CADET.

THE WEST POINT VADET.                                                              9

knee, Clement put his canteen to his lips, and the swallows
which he took appeared to revive him.
"Clement," said he, "your luck has changed. " You Will-"
But he spoke not aliother word. Hisunder jaw dropped; his
head sank on one shoulder; he gave 'a convulsive groan; he
was dead !,
Sadly wailed the clarions of the chasseurs that afternoon, as
Harry Lawson's corpse, wrapped in' 'an Arab cfoak, was deposited.
in the ground. His frank and manly bearing had gained him
many friends, and Clement mourned him as a brother lost.
The next morning all the troops were drawn up in' a hollow'
square, and the "general order' were read. "I am forgotten,"
thought Clement, as name after name was mentioned; but his
turn came. The staff-officer read:
"Lastly, Orderly-sergeant Clement Clayton, of the chasseurs,
having gallantly led the forlorn hope, been the flrst to enter the
fortress, captured a sacred standard, and rendered the com-
mander-in-chief important service at a critical moment, for
these reasons he is decorated as knight of the Legion of Honor,
promoted to a captaincy, and appointed aid-de-camp to General
de Guyon."    -
Clement heard no more, but fainted in the ranks. When lie
recovered consciousness, he was in the general's quarters, and
the kind-hearted veteran was bending over him with paternal
solicitude.

CHAPTER XVIII.
CAREERS OF CRIME

-MR. JoHN SPENCER, after his father's death, and his marriage
to a widow almost equally wealthy with himself, became one of
the magnates. of New York. No one's name appeared oftener in
the papers 'in connection with public schemes of improvement;
no one gave mQre liberally to all 'tbose benevolent societies
which published the names of' their donors, nor was there any
one more frequently held up to the admiring gaze of the young
as a "model merchant." Leaving the old mansion near the
Battery, he Inhabited a splendid mansion in Bond street, and
came down town every morning in his carriage, with two-trap-

91%

t

I.

I

'I T

91

ping black fellows in livery. After business hours, however, he
showed his want of pride by riding up Broadway in an omnibus,
with a condescending air quite refreshing to behold.
One day, on approaching his house withfhis usual consequen-
tial step, the servant who let him in informed him that a man
was in the parlor, waiting to see him.
"Do you know who he is ?"
"No, sir," replied the domestic, shrinkitig before the frowning
gaze of his master; "but he seems queer-like."
"Queer-like!"
"Yes,.sir. He's very shabby, and I didn't like to let him in,
but he wouldn't go fiWay. Hark, sir ! He's a singing."
What audacity! Yes-some audacious intruder was actually
singing a verse of" Coal-black 'Rose,"-the popular melody then.
"Some fellow has mistaken the house, or is drunk !" angrily
remarked the irritated merchant. "Go to the stable and tell
James to come here. I may want him."
Then, with his most imposing look, Mr. Spencer entered his
parlor, where a bloated, vulgar-looking man sat in a luxurious
chair, his dirty boots on the centre table, and a bad cigar in his
mouth, which diffused anything but an agreeable perfume.
"-Look here, sir," began the offended owner of the establish-
inent; "how dare-" But when he had gotten thus far, he
recognized the unbidden guest, and a feeling of agony almost
took away his strength.
"Yes, old covey-I dare. Of course, I dare come and see my
old friend, for I knew you would be glad to see me."
"Ah ! well-yes!" ejaculated the merchant, with a feeling of
uneasiness which he vainly endeavored to shake off.
"Of course. But you are slow."
"Slow ?"
"Yes, slow. Now were I you, John Spencer, I should have
exclaimed, -as I entered the room, 'Goodness, my old- friend-
Pike, how are you? I am, delighted to see you. Hallo, John,
James, Thomas!'"
" Here I anm, sir," said the coachman, rushing in as he heard
his name called, and followed by the footman.
"All' right," exclaimed Pike. ." Which of you has the wine in
charge ?"
." John, the footman," said Thomas, unable to divine what
Was going on.
" Well,'John, bring some sherry and crackers. Quick, sir I"

U


THE WEST POINT, CADET.

The domestics vanished, leavipg their master In doubt as to
whether he was awake or was the victim of a nightmare. A cold
perspiration bathed his sallow face, and he felt incapable of
action-
"While waiting for the rosy old fellow," said Pike., "tell us
how you are. You never play -now, I suppose ?"
The afflicted man shook his head.
" Never have one pack of cards in your hand and the other in
your sleeve, eh ?"
"It was you who taught me," muttered Spencer.
"Yes-I rendered you a good many services, old boy. By
the way, have you ever heard of Clement Spencer ?"
"No. He was undoubtedly lost at sea."
"Good for you, for do you know that will was not destroyed,
after all."
"What will?" eagerly inquired the terrified merchant, before
whose vision dark shadows of the past began to flit.
" What will" was the cool reply. "Now you must have a
very bad memory. Shall I tell you the story to refresh it ?"
"I know of no will," doggedly remarked Mr. Spencer.
"That's true. But do you remember hunting for one once,
with that old fox, your father, when his brother lay dead in the
house? Aha! your recollection is improving, for you change
color."I
"Had we not a right to search, being the nearest relatives ?"
"Perhaps you had, but if you had been smarter you would
have found it, as Egan did."
"What I Did that drunken rascal find a will ?"
"That you will some day find out, old covey. I-was away at
the time, you know, managing matters so as to get that young
cadet into trouble. It was not a badly laid scheme, after all,to
get that crazy fool into a quarrel with him, and then, after trip-
ping him up by a cord across the path, to take his own pistol,
and give the other a flesh wound. Prompt decision carried it
through; eh ?"
" But all this is past," muttered the agonized merchant'.
"Not at all-not at all," replied Pike, with a cunning leer.
"Egan is alive, and so is his wife, who has kept your uncle's
will like the apple of her eye. How would you like to give up
those coal mines, my boy ?"
The servant now brought in a waiter, with a decanter of wine

Or

THN WEST POINT CADET..

93

and -some biscuit. Filling a glass, Pike tossed It- off, and then
replenished it.
"Good wine, Spencer; better than what we used to get when
we went about disguised. Rare times, those, though."
"But I thought you went away ?" asked -the agonized
merchant. "I thought my father paid you to leave ?"
"So he did. He laid down the cash, and threatened to indict
me if I came back. So I went to the other side of the pond, but
luck has of late been bad-very bad. What could I do better
than to come back again and see my old friends ?"
" Vell."
"Well!" mimicked Pike. "Is that your greeting to the old
professor, who gave you lessons in what has enabled you to get
"Do you mean to say that I have got rich by gambling ?"
"Yes-not perhaps with cards, but with stocks and mer-
chandise. So just fork over a few thousands to me."
"Thousands! Why, did not my father pay yod for your
villany?"
" Very well. With his-letters, and what testimony I can pick
up, quite a pretty early history of your honorable meanness can
be written. Here goes for-a row, if you say so."
"fHush-hushI" said John Spencer, who heard his carriage
draw up before the door.- "I will do what is right.",
"AhaI" cried Pike, with a look of malignant triumph. "You
are afraid, after alL Well, be liberal."
" Here, take my purse," said the merchant. "It contains
over a hundred dollars, and if you will meet me to-morrow, I
will endeayor to satisfy you."
"Meet you where"
"Anywhere. Stay. I will pass by the arsenal in Centre street
in my carriage, about two clock, and take you in. We can
ride out to the ' Red Cottage,' and there arrange our business."
"Agreed. I knew you would be generous," said Pike, taking
another glass of sherry, and lingering along as hewent to the
door, as if examining the h~ouse. Each moment seemed an age,
and when the door fairly closed, he drew a long breath. Then
came the consciousness that the respite was but a . temporary
one. Never mind. Terms can be and must be made.
"Who was your visitor ?" asked Mrs. Spencer, sweeping
majestically into the room. "Pshaw ! I smell tobacco smoke.
Hiow can you suffer such conduct in my drawing-room ?"

J

I

G2


.oo

94

THE WEST POINT CADET.

I.

The troubled husband stammered out an apology, but all that
night his mind was ill at ease. His troubled imagination peopled
the silence of his chamber, as though the memories of the past
could assume an actual existence, and he determined to have the
troublesome Pike removed, whatever might be the cost. Had
he dared, he would have hired'him to be assassinated; as It was,
he determined to use gold instead of steel.'
T he next day, Pike and Meredith Egai emerged from that
rotten core of New York's heart-the Five Points, and were
lounging along the sidewalk in front of the arsenal, when the
rich merchant drove up.
"What !" was his exclamation, when they approached the
door of the carriage, as it stopped; "two of you?"
"Yes," coolly remarked Pike, as he handed his companion
into the carriage. "We work in couples, old fellow, just as you
and I used to pluck pigeons when you was my pupil. You
really have done credit to my lessons."
"Where shall I drive to?" inquired the coachman.
"The Red Cottage."
This was a somewhat equivocal resort in what was then the
suburbs of the city, although its site is now covered by blocks
of magnificent houses. To Mr. Spencer's great joy, Pike pro-
posed, without ceremony, that the troublesome witnesses should
all go abroad; and then came the sum to be paid them, in which
the merchant wished to include a delivery of the will. The will,
however, appeared out of' the question, as Egan denied all
knowledge of it, while Pike had even forgotten his allusion to it
the previous evening. The price of the exile was then discussed,
Spencer and Pike haggling like tigers quarrelling for their prey.
"An exposure would not be agreeable," sneeringly remarked
Pike.
"Neither would it be in any way profitable," was the reply.
"Well, say ten thousand dollars."
" Ten thousand furies !" shouted Mr. Spencer, knitting his
brow and grinding his teeth. "I would not give that sum to
save your lives."~
"I don't believe you would," was the cool reply.
At last, after a protracted discussion, which was in fact a
tournament of rascality, it was agreed that each should receive
one hundred dollars, with an annuity of five' hundred, to be
paid quarterly in Paris, so long as they remained there. Pike
had evidently made inquiries on the subject, for he insisted on

THE WEST POINT CADET.                95
having the business closed before the French consul, where the
terrified merchant reluctantly signed the papers, and deposited
a bond that the annuity should be forthcoming. Verily doth,
" conscience make cowards of us all."
It was a week before a vessel was to sail for Havre, and at the
request of Egan's wife,. the "witnesses," as Pike called the trio,
went to Brooklyn. The night.before they were to sail, John
Spencer sat communing with his gloomy thoughts, biting his
lips with rage, and a prey-not only to the anguish of remorse,
but to the mortification of having to pay so largely for silence.
All at once he thought of the will. Did it exist ? Would it be
used for further extortion?
Uneasy and troubled in spirit, he determined to go and see
the "witnesses' again, although he had bidden them-and'
gladly, too-.farewell. It was' a ra w, foggy night, and a servant,
who was in the hall as the merchant went out, noticed that his
master had a haggard, vacant look, as if his thoughts were
wandering. Onward -he strode, often jostling rudely against
passers-by, for so dense was the fog that it was not easy to dis-
tinguish objects in the dark streets. The ferry was reached;
the' river was crossed; but ere the boat was made fast, the
heart-stricken man pushed forward, and fell between the wharf
and the boat, his head striking the edge of the platform.
There was a stifled shriek-a plash in the g    waves.
For a moment the wounded and drowning man struggled con-
vulsively, his blood crimsoning the foaming waters around him.
BAt when the boat was backed from the wharf, and search was
made for the unknown' victim to his own impetuosity,. no trace
of him could be found. John Spencer had ended his successful
yet crime-stamped career. 'His body was swept down the har-
bor by a strong ebbing tide, and his disembodied spirit passed
to the eternal j udgment-seat I

'

t:

i


THE WEST POINT CADET.

THE WEST POINT CADET.

)

I.
[

97

CHAPTER XIX'
RECOGNITION. AND REWAR.~
THE campaign gloriously carried on by General de Quyon
was at an end, and the army having retired into winter quarters,
the veteran received orders to repair without delay. to Paris.
The king wished to learn the exact condition of affairs in,
Algeria; nor was the general at all backward in obeying the
invitation, although he found it.difficult to persuade his aid-de-
camp to accompany him. Clement's recollections of the me-
tropolis were anything but agreeable, yet he. was so necessary
to the comfort of the general, who doted on him as he would
have doted on a son, that there was no evading the visit-
The .general took a suite of furnished apartments in the
faubourg St. Honore, and soon the "hero of Constantina" was
the lion of fashionable society. His presence was expected at
the palace festivities.; he was enticed to all the balls; no dinner
was a success if he was not present, and tickets to concerts aM.dd
theatrical representations were showered upon him. Of course,
his handsome aid-de-camp was always expected to accompany,
him, and a great difference there was between that gallant
soldier, in his dashing chasseur uniform, and the half-starved
man of letters who not a year previous felt life a burthen. Yet
Clement was not spoiled by prosperity, and though he mingled
in the gaieties of the magnificent court, his thoughts often
reverted to poor Harry Lawson, to whose advice he owed his
present position. Nay, memory, faithful to her trust, would call'
up other and earlier -pages in his life. Fascinating as were the
Parisian belles, his heart was sealed with fond thoughts of Ida
Patterson.
One night, having been with General de Guyon to a brilliant
festival, he found it impossible to sleep. His health was good;
nothing had occurred during the day to annoy him, and yet,
though ie would perseveringly close his eyes, they would not
remain closed. -A profound stillness reighed, only broken by the
occasional tramp 6f a passing patrol; but at length Clement

I

96

,~ ~ .

Sir
*1
I

0

heard, or fancied he hedrd, something which sounded like the
sawing of wood in -the next room, where General de Guyon slept.
Then there was a noise like the unlocking of a door; but after
all, he thought, it might be one of the sounds heard in all old
houses, and turning, he again endeavored to sleep.
A noise again! (ould it be that the general was ill? Spring-
Ing from his bed, he was already approaching the door between
the rooms, when he heard the well-known voice of General de
Guyon exclaiming, in half-suppressed tones. "Robbers I
robbersI"
Rushing in, Clement found a man endeavoring to hold a pillow
over the general's mouth, while a second had aimed a blow at
his head with a club. Planting a blow of his fist just beneath
the ear of the first one, Clement seized the other around the
body, holding him fast, in spite of his struggles to escape. The
general, jumping pp, and seizing his uniform sash, which lay on
a chair, bound the man whom Clement had knocked senseless,
and by that time a party o' police entered the room.
What words had been interchanged between General de
Guyon and Clement, were in the French language, and the faint
light of the night-lamp had not enabled them to see their
prisoners. But no sooner were lights brought than the man
secured by Clement exclaimed, with all affrighted air:
"Clement Spencer-Clem   Spencer! Is it you, or do I
dream?"
"Never mind treating us to your English," said a police
officer, putting on a pair of hand-cuffs. "You are caught in the
act, and the way in which that door has been sawed out to let
you put in your arm to turn the key, shows that you are- no
novice at the business."
Clement Spencer! It was long since the owner of that name
had heard it, and he was hesitating whether to acknowledge it,
when the other man. said:
"Ah, Clement, little did I use to think when holding you on
my knee at Coalboro', that you would give me up to these
French police I. But it's no use. My conscience has never been,
easy since I did you a wrong, and I hope now my old 'oman will
set you right."
"Egan!I" exclaimed Clement. " Is that you, Egan ?"
" It is,'' replied the other culprit, " and I am none other than
Ichabod Pike, once professor, but now prisoner?'
" What are those men talking about ?" asked General de Guyon.

I
I
I
I.
V.,

LI

-


'4,l

98

THE WEST POINT CADET.

"Sir," said Pike, in excellent French, "although we are
criminals, we have it in our power to restore to our captor a
fortune--nay, we can give him af-name.".
"What " exclaimed Clement, "Do you know anything
about my history ?"
" Everything," was the reply.
"Tell me, then, who-"
"Nay," interrupted Pike. "One cannot be -confidential with
pair of hand-cuffs on. When we are free again, we may be
communicative. So, gentlemen officers, let us go on. 'If this
young.man sees us clear of this scrape, we may enlighten him
as to his parentage.",
No sooneretwere they away, than General de Guyon, whose
curiosity had been strongly excited during this conversation,
demanded an explanation. Hitherto, Clement had never gone
through with the sad detail of his history, but now he told him
all- that he knew
"M ty friend," said the general, when he had learned all, " we
must 'lose no time in unravelling this mystery. First, let us
visit the American minister, immediately after bre'akfast, and-
endeavor to ascertain if this Egan is accompanied by his wife-
your nurse, I think you said. If they have not had their pass-
ports countersigned at* the embassy, we must employ some of
the detective police."
The Amerian minister, they learned, had just arrived at
Paris, nor did their informant know his name. Driving to. the
embassy, they requested an audience, and were invited into a
drawing-room. A gentleman who sat at the table, writing,
rose   reive them  but no sooner did Clement see his familar
features, than he sprang forward, exclaimIng    .
"My old friend, Mr. Ledroit, I did not expect to see- you
here 1P
The recognition was not at first mutual, for Mr. Ledroit did
not recognize in the stalwart, weather-bronzed soldier the strip-
n rwhoz had ont esed his life, and whom he had long
rengarded hadead.e rBut when he clarly comprehended who it
was, he clasped the gallant soldier to his heart, exclaiming.:
" My son! my son! Heaven be praised that I have found my
s''-it was his child. It was he who had married the, elder
sister of John Spencer, and she, left destitute and disowned by
her' cruel father, had journeyed to Coalboro', and there ,placed

THE WEST POINT CADET.

Iyer babe under the protection of her Uncle Clement, While she
sought her husband. The letter explained all, and the kind,
hearted uncle gave the child his own name, intending to adopt
him.
The poor mother never reached her husband, nor did he know
that he was a father, until his child providentially saved his life.
Then, Mr. Clement Spencer told him all; but as Mr. Ledroit
had never told the secret of his life to his mother, it was agreed
between them that it should -remain inviolate for a time.
Meanwhile, the delighted father obtained'a cadetship for his
son, and would have secured his advancement had he not been
away at Mr. Spencer's death, and knew not thp^61ain of events that
followed it. No sooner did he learn them, than he hastened to
the North, but the John -Spencers denied any knowledge of
Clement, neither could the slightest proof of his parentage be
obtained at Coalboro'. Mrs. Egan, who was the only person
who might have known any of the facts, had suddenly left a few
weeks before, with her husband.
All- this, With many .a detail, was told by Mr. Ledroit to his
son-to the child of her whom he loved, and upon whom he now
gazed with paternal pride. To Clement, it seemed like a dream
from which he feared to awake. The dark clouds which had low-
ered over the horizon of his hopes for many a long year, were
now breaking away, and the world seemed brighter than ithad
ever appeared before.
But," suddenly exclaimed General de Guyon, for whose
benefit the conversation had been carried on in French, "should
we not endeavor to find this Mrs. Egan ?"
The suggestion was valuable, and driving.to the police depart-
ment, a detective officer was sent to conduct them to her abode.
It was in the midst of that nest of crime known as "the city,"
where vice and crime herd together, haggard with misery, or a
prey to their own depraved appetites. The- door of Mrs. Egan's4A
room having been indicated, Clement knocked, but could scarcely'
recognize his old nurse in the attenuated woman who let him in.
Trouble had evidently cast a ghastly shadow over her haggard
cheeks, and she gazed wildly at the stranger with her sunken1
blood-shot eyes. But she recognized him.,-
" Yes, yes," she convulsively exclaimed, ''It is my boy-my
little Clem! Little did I ever expect to see you again, but I
have hereuwhat will make your heart as glad as it will mine to

r:

I
'I
F

IT
I

1"

F.

{

I'

is
~2

I i

A


Ill.

100

THE WEST POINT CADET.

Going to an old trunk in the corner, she produced a package
of papers marked "For Clement Spencer."
"There," said she. "When the good man who wrote that had
breathed his last, I was sent by his hard-hearted brother for a
locksmith. Knowing that my poor husband was too much an
adept at the business, I besought him, charging him, by all that
was sacred, to keep a lookout for anything of this kind. It was
found. by him, when your unlooked-for arrival diverted the
hunters from their search, and for once he kept his pledge.
But you, Clem, was not to be found; nay, they said you had
absconded-that you was drowned; but I cared not. Death
only could have made me part with the package, unless to
deliver it, as I now have, into your own hands."
After thanking the unfortunate woman, Clement carefully
broke the sad tidings of her husband's capture to her, assuring
her that no effort should be spared to have his punishment as
light as possible. Leaving his purse with.her, he rejoined his
friends in the carriage and communicated his good fortune.
Breaking the seals of the package, his eyes filled with tears,
for there were the mementoes of his mother, found with him
when left at Mr. Spencer's door. Mr. Ledroit, too, wept-bitter-
ly, especially when he perused the letter from his wife to her
uncle, commending the helpless infant, and hoping that he soon-
could be reclaimed by his father. Alas, how many years had
Intervened, yet the father found that his heart yearned towards
that son, and Clement's heart swelled with joy to think that.
there was no stain upon his birthI
There was another paper in the package. It was a will, made
by Clement Spencer, bequeathing all his property, "both real
and personal, to his well-beloved nephew and namesake."
Francois Ledroit and Martha Gray -were the witnesses.
"1I knew," said Mr. Ledroit, "that this docuinent must have
mysteriously disappeared, or have been destroyed by the
Spencers. But as no statement of mine could have stripped-
them of their ill-gotten gains, and you, my dear Clement, was
supposed to be drowned, I thought it best to hold mny peace.
But eomne; your oldfriend Clayton is to dine with me to-day,
and you must see my sister, and a child of my adoption, who
are matronizing my bachelor establishment."
Clement looked towards General de Guyon.
" Of course," ,ontinued Mr. Ledroit, " your friend, the general,
will accompany you. I fear that I have robbed him of' a~ son-"

THE WEST POINT CADET.

101

But the happiness of my young friend reconciles me to the
loss," interrupted the general. "Yet I do confess that I envy
you."
" Thanks; but I have to dine at the palace. I will excuse my
aid-de-camp, though, and call in the evening. Adieu 1"

CHAPTER XX.

ALL'S WELL~ THAT ENDS WELL.

, Ox reaching the American embassy, Mr. Ledroit was told by
the porter that a messenger from the foreign office was waiting
in his study, and-requested a servant to usher Clement into the
drawing-room, promising to follow in a few moments. As the
domestic opened the door, the well-known notes of the "Cadet's
Quickstep1" (so familiar in his early life, but so long unheard)
met his ear; but the lady who was seated at the piano stopped
playing when she saw a stranger, and rose to leave the instru-
ment. As- she turned, the astonished young man saw the loved
face that had for years haunted his day-reveries and his night-
dreams. True,,time had added dignity and maturity to its
beauty, but from her eyes came the same sunshine of the heart,
which hadso long been clouded. All the old current of first
and never-quenched love rushed back upon his heart, and he
stood bewildered and astonished.
Ida Patterson, equally bewildered, pressed her outspread
hands upon her forehead, as if fearing that the grave had given
up the dead to torture her with vague fantasies, while a look of
profound astonishment took possession of her pale countenance.
It deepened, and as snow becomes luminous when the sunshine
plays over it, the very pallor of her features brightened with
affection.
"Ida 1"
With a convulsive bound, she sprang into his out-stretched
arms, and exclaiming, "Clement!" she burst into a flood of tears,
while he folded her to his proud heart. At first she wept
hysterically, but when he poured forth the love that for so many
years had been garnered up for her alone, the crimson blushes
again stole over her cheek, and joy-smiles dispelled the heart-
darkness of the past, as gleams of spring sunshine melt the snow-

I

.1

1-

'44

Jr


THE WEST POINT CADET.

102

ATHE WEST POINT CADET.

banks. The lighthearted girl, who had awakened the cadet's love,
had changed into the.matured, sorrow-tried, soul-inspired woman,.
"Clement," she murmured, "you have-not forgotten me."
"Forgotten you! 0, Ida, you have never thought so! I
know you never have."
" Never !" she whispered, lifting her tearful eyes to meet his
gaze; "never I"
Again did he pour forth his vows, not as before in that quiet
garden at West Point, bright dreams of romance, but earnest
hopes that she would never again be separated from him, in a
world which neither, had thus far found an enchanted valley of
bliss. Years had passed since that firAt declaration, yet tones
that had since been buried, now welled forth again beneath the
burning breath of love. Happiness, which had been at a stand-
still, now started afresh.
" What !- Do I dream!1" exclaimed the well-known voice of Mr.
Ledroit, who had entered the room without having been heard.
" Ah, it is like a dream," said Clement, "yet I hope there will
be no awakening ! My father, let me tell you that this is my
long-plighted bride.".
Mr. Ledrot saw it all;- and the love, long treasured in his own
heart that Ida might become his wife, was changed to an equal
devotion for her as the promised bride of his newly-found son.
"Bless you, my children!I" said he, in a voice choked by
emotion. "Now, Ida, the wish of my poor mother' will be
gratified, and you will be mistress of that Southern home where
you won all hearts."
But therehwasanother surprise in store for them-another
recognition-anot'her resurrection of past love. For when
General de Guyon came, no sooner was he presented to Ida,
than lie exclaimed: "Cecile, my poor, dear wife!"
It was not his Cecile, but her daughter. Yes-there was the
same auburn hair, the deep blue eyes, the classical features, and
the elastic, queen-like form, which had won his youthful heart.
Ida well knew, too, that her mother's first husband had been the
C" True, true '" said he; " I yet own the broad domain of Chau-
mont, although .when I found myself saved from the guilotine
by the overthrow of Robespierre, I dared not retain a name
which smacked of nobility.; I learned, too, that my dear wife-
my poor, poor Cecile, had perished at sea while .escaping to
England, and in the bitterness of my grief I enlisted. . From that

time, glory has been my Idol, until this brave young man stepped
between me and death. . To-day, Mr. Ledroit, you take him
from me-you claim him as a son, but let me love as a daughter
this child of my dear wife."
But why proceed to describe a re-union of fond hearts, where
all was happiness? .Soon, leaving the two elderly gentlemen to
discuss plans for ,their future happiness, the lovers went out to
stroll in the Tuilleries, that regal retreat. It was a lovely night,
and the moon moved on in majesty overhead with her glittering
attendant train, while above the hum of the busy city came the
softened music of the martial band performing beneath the palace
windows. Yet it is doubtful whether either Clement or Ida heard
or saw anything above or around. Pacing slowly along a seclud
ed walk, with his arm gently encircling her waist, he told his won-
derful tale of life, through the varied warp and woof of which ran
the bright, unbroken golden thread of his love for her. Joyously
did they re-unite the links of the magic chain of life, happy in
the noblest, purest, holiest of passions-reciprocated love.
The wedding-day came at length, and the American embassy
was thronged with the great and the gay of Paris. Grave diplo-
matists, grave academicians, dashing soldiers and profound,
statesmen were there in crowds, mingled with fair ladies, spark-
ling with jewels. Yet among all that gay throng, neither, the
brilliant appearance of the saloons, or the exquisite music, or
the splendor of the uniforms, or the seintillations of -jewelry, or
the waving of feathers, or the rustling of brocades, could attract
the delighted gaze of the crowd from the happy couple whose
marriage was there celebrated.
Clement Spencer, in his dashing uniform of captain of chas-
seurs, was an almost entirely different person from the cadet,m
simple gray, who first wooed his bride,o less handsome than
when then exultant in youthful hope, but with a, nobler and
sterner beauty. And Ida Patterson-so called for the last time,.
-was changed from the laughing girl into the regally mature
woman, with a brow on which thought reposed as on, an ivory
throrre, while deep tenderness lurked in her true eyes.
The solemn vows were pronounced ; the cilip of their happi--
ness was filled to the brim. General de Guyon gave the bride
away, while Walter Clayton and Isabel Ledroit, as groomsman
and bridesmaid, rejoiced in the happiness -of their friends.

Fly
I kl

7

4-

I:.

.1
A~4

:,

103


THE WEST POINT, CADET.

A

It may not be amiss to turn over another leaf, now that another
score of years have passed. Soon after his marriage, Clement
resigned his commission, and the whole party came to America,
accompanied by Pike and the Egans, General de Guyon's influ-
ence having stopped all legal proceedings for' the attempt at rob-
bery. At first, Mrs. John Spencer refused to relinquish her hus-
band's ill-gotten gains, but she at last thought it best not to
brave legal inquiry, and a decent curtain was thus dropped over
his conduct, while a costly monument, erected over his remains
after their discovery, blazons his virtues. "Requiescat in pace !"
General de.Guyon is also gathered to his fathers, full of years
and of honors, but happier in his last years in the devoted care
of his wife's daughter. Mr. Ledroit yet lives at his southern
home, doubly happy. Not only has he around him Clement and
Ida, with their little ones, but Walter Clayton, the happy husband
of his sister IsabeL
One bright day last summer, Clement Spencer returned from
New Orleans, and among the purchases which he brought home,
was a large case of toys. Its advent was hailed with glee by
the children who collected around, with the pleasures of
anticipation gushing from their hearts.
"What have you there 2" asked the buxom matron, who held
her youngest cherub in her arms.
"A new amusement, Ida," replied the proud father, "-probably
brought out by the Russian war. Here are full sets of chasseur
uniforms and equipments for the two eldest boys."
"And me1" sadly exclaimed a younger brother--" 'o uniform
for me ?"
"Never mind, Clem," said the mother. "I will have you made
a uniform Which I like better than that foreign finery. You
shall be an American cadet."
"HuzzaI" exclaimed a gray-haired old gentlenian, who en-
joyed the sports of those who were little more'childish than
himself.- "Huzza! Grandpa can then see together cadet and
chasseur I"

MARK,.AYLESFORD:-ie

WELL

8ML

A ROMANCE OF CORNWALL.
By MRS. C. F. GERRY.
CHAPTER 1.

THE MESSAGE--THE

TRtYST--MARIAN WINTHROP
LOVER.

AND

RER

" WALK to-night, at the hour of ten, by the brink of the Holy
Well !"
Such was the message, traced in a clear, bold, but rapid hand,
on a slip of paper, which Marian Winthrop had found amid a
bouquet of Cornwall wild-flowers, that had suddenly dropped
at her feet, as she sat dreaming in a secluded nook of a pleasant
old English manse. A-pretty picture she made, sitting there
beneath.the great pear-tree, 'with her slight, but exquisitely
graceful figure, her fair, Saxon face, with its vivid color, and
strong lights and shadows, and the sunshine, which sifted
through the gnarled boughs, glinting across a wealth of tresses
that seemed like bronzed gold. Had you seen her then, as she
sprang from her seat, a warm blush crimsoning cheek, neck
and brow, at the request, penned in her anonymous note, and
a smile dimpling her ripe, red lips, you would not have wondered
that she was -the belle of the- country, and that even in far-oW
London, they talked of the beautiful Marian Winthrop.

1

104

p  j

--I1.

I':

I1

Al

i,7.

a

-

flesm
min

cl


F,.--..

THN WELL OF ST. CLARE.

106

"It must have been froi Laurence," she exclaimed, glancing
again at the bouquet, and the note, and stealthily lifting the
flowers to her lips-" He has written the message, and dropped
the bouquet at my feet, and I am sure he must be near. Per-
haps I shall find him lurking among the shrubbery I" With
these words, she darted away, the same arch smile on her face,
and her bright eyes sparkling with fun and frolic.
Her search for Laurence Verner proved vain, though she shook
the rose-bushes and laburnums, till a fragrant rain fell around
her, and half-a-dozen birds soared from their nestsin dismay.
The only person to be found was a stranger boy, and though
she doubted not he had been the bearer of the young man's
note, she was too timid to question him as to its authorship, or
his own agency in transmitting it. He passed on, whistling a
snatch of some old tune, and she drew back, shy and silent.
All day Marian Winthrop' was dreamy and pre-occupied, and
when the hall-clock struck ten, she stole down the winding oak
stair-case, and noiselessly quitted the house. The hush of the
summer night had settled on the landscape, and wild moor,
bold crag, and the wayward path of the mountain stream were
wrapped in soft shadows. The moon was just rising above the
distant heights, outlined sharply against the sky, when Marian.
glided by the gray-walled church, and paused by the ruined
Oratory, which marks the sacred well of St Clare. Ages ago,
as our readers will recollect, this region was famous for its
Druid temples and worship,.and it may be dark-eyed priestesses
had trailed their white robes along the brink of the fountain I
am describing. Years later, the Cornwall legends tell us that
the well was hallowed by its patron Saint -, "a noble Italian
woman and a disciple of St. Francis, who, abandoning the most
brilliant worldly prospects, dedicated herself to the interests
of religion." Hence-the spring derived its name from the Ab-
bess of the Benedictine Nuns, and though St. Clare had long
since mouldered back to dust, the little pool was still associated
with her memory, and regarded with superstitious awe by many
of the ignorant- country people. Marian Winthrop, however',
felt no fear, as she trod the fallen stones, which had once been
arches, and cornices, and moulings of the Oratory, and stopped
in. the very shadow of the moss-grown cross hard by. She had
been there but a few moments, when a tall form bounded to-
ward her, and a deep-toned voice exclaimed:-
" Dear, dear Marian!I

.

family 2?"
"Mark, you have no right toquestion me
you that I could not return your love, and
Do not persecute me with attentions that are
heart take its own course."
"You are requiring a hard thing--I shall
you up to Laurence Verner!"
There was such firmness in his tone and

thus; I have told
this is sufficient.
odious, but let my
never, never give
look, that Marian

Winthrop trembled at the thought of having a mail like Mark
Aylesford for an enemy, and she paced the- grass and stones
beside him, silent and thoughtful. Gradually the frown left his
brow, his lip lost its rigidity, and he once more grew 'genial and
tender. Marian dared not refuse his escort home, and they
parted at the door of the quaint, many-gabled stone mansion
with a show of courtesy, which was quite foreign to her real
feelings.
While these events were transpiring in the vicinity of the
sacred well, a young man, whose symmetrical and well-knit
form, and. frank, handsome face would have rendered him a

The girl started In. surprise and disappointment, and In spite
of her natural good breeding, shrank from her companion in
involuntary disgust.
" Marcus Aylesford," she cried, "why are you here ?"
"Why, my sweet Marian?   Do you ask that, when I sent
you a message, begging you to walk to-night by the brink of
the Holy Well?"
" I, I have been sadly deceived," said Marian, withgrave
earnestness.
"And it was not me, with whom you expected to hold a
tryst ?"
"No, no, you are the last person I supposed to be the author
of the note I found in the bouquet, that was flung at my feet
this morning, and had I suspected it, you would have walked
alone by the brink of the Sacred Well."
"Upon my word, you are complimentary," observed Ayles-
ford with a curling lip, while a fierce glitter shot into his fiery
eyes--" I suppose you would have preferred a meeting with
Laurence Verner!"
1" Vastly sir," replied the girl, with a nonchalance that was
tantalizing.
" Marian Winthrop, you drive me iad-have you dared love
that young boor, whose very name is hateful to me and your

107

'I

I

THIE W;ELt OF ST. CLARE.

LN,


108

THE WELL OF ST. CLAIE.

dangerous rival to almost any suitor In the kingdom, struck
into abroad sweep of moorland, and took his way through the
thick furze, dusky heath, and huge masses of granite as fast as
his supple limbs could carry him. He had gone but a short dis-
tance when a rifle ball came whizzing through the air, and
glanced harmlessly past hin. At the same time a burly ruffian
rose from a clump of furz, muttering:
"You are on forbidden ground-this Cornish moor is the
highwayman's park, and we allow no poaching. Your money
or your life, stranger!"
"My purse is too ineagre to tempt your avarice; my life too
precious to be given up without a struggle !" rejoined the trav-
eller, and with a single blow, he hurled his antagonist to the
ground, and hurried on, murmuring:
"Ali! I wonder if Marian Winthrop would weep if they had
found me dead on the lonely moor !"
He had heard wild stories of the outlaws that infested these
mooj, and was not surprised when he received another chal-
lenge of a similar nature. His second assailant followed him
for a whole hour, ever and anon pausing for a hand-to-hand
conflict, but at length he too was felled to the earth, and
Laurence Verner resumed his journey.
"I am late," he said' to himself, as he perceived the cross,
and the ruined Oratory-" Heaven grant that Marian Winthrop
may be waiting for me, for I have staked all my chances of
happiness on this meeting."
As he spoke, a voice that sent a strange thrill through every
nerve, fell on his ear, and breathing in a tone scarcely above'a
whisper the single word "Marian," he leaned forward in breath-
less interest.  The girl had ceased her contention, and was
walking at Mark Aylesford's side, While he talked with the as-
surance of an accepted lover. Verner's first impulse was to
break in u pon their tete-a-tete, and charge her with arrant
coquetry, but he resisted the temptation, and stealthily with-
drew. Mark Aylesford had left Marian in the porch, and his
tall form was lost to sight in a grove of firs at some distance,
when Verner appeared on the spot, where the girl still stood,
so changed that she scarcely recogniized himi.
"Aha !" he muttered, " I beg you to walk by the Holy-Well,
and to mock me, you meet Mark Aylesford there, and hnld a
lover's tryst with him! You have deluded mec into the belief
that lhe was nothing to yot that you regarded him with posi-

THE WELL OF ST. CLARE.

109

tive disgust, but I am no longer your dupe I The scales hate.
fallen from my eyes, and I see you as you are-false, cold, cruel."
"0, Laurence, Laurence," cried the girl, "do not reproatch
me till you know the truth ! Listen to me, I implore you!"
The young man hesitated an instant, but then his face grew
more stormy, and he exclaimed:
"No, no, it will be useless-you cannot explain! I have loved
you as no man ever loved you before, or will love you again,
notwithstanding the homage which follows you; flattered and
courted as you are, I began to think you cared for me, and
would yet return my love with equal depth and fervor. It was
a wild, delirious dream, but I am awake now, thank God! I
leave you to Mark Aylesford, and tie upbraidings of conscience,
-which will sooner or later tell you how basely you have wronged
me."l
"Do not speak In that strain, Laurence-I do not deserve it?
"False girl," rejoined the young man-"false in word, in
tone, in look, and manner-you shall trifle with me no more.
I am going away-not only from you, from Cornwall, but from
England-I shall not rest till leagues of land and sea lie between
us. Good night, Marian-it will be hard to teach myself to call
you Marian Aylesford."
"Stay, stay," wailed the poor girl-" do not let a slight mis-
understanding part us forever!"
"A slight mis understanding!" sneered Verner, and bounded
from the porch.
Marian Winthrop sprang down the steps, and followed him
till a mist swam before her eyes, and she sank fainting in the
narrow path she was threading.
The day subsequent 'a pale, grave young man, with something
in his face, that spoke of the shadow which had fallen on his
life, came riding along the wild, Cornwall coast. At the pier
of a small sea-port town, he leaped into a boat, and rowed out
toward a vessel lying at anchor, but all astir on board.
"Ho! there," 'cried one of the officers, as he espied the little
craft and its occupant, " what news do you bring ?"
" I shall sail with you-nothing nowv binds me to England."
"lBravo!I" exclaimed the mate, and Laurence Verner sprang
on deck.
As the vesseI spread her white sails to the breeze, and went
ploughing through the waters, a stormy scene was being enacted
'at the old manse, which had for ;years been the home of Mariaa

j..
V
~ 4'1'
'A
It'
~, 4
4i44
Igtt
i

-

I
I
I
I

K:
a

'4
ii

LI
I

;t

p


Fwl

THE ,WELL OF ST. CLARE,-

THE WELL OF ST. CLARE..

111

Winthrop. Up the long avenue leading to the house, a dark,
saturnine man had dashed, mounted on a powerful black horse
-it was Mark Aylesford. Squire Winthrop, who was drowsing
over his newspaper in the pleasant porch where Marian had
parted with her indignant lover, sprang to meet the guest with
an eagerness, that told he was an especial favorite, and extending
his hand, exclaimed:
"Welcome, welcome, Aylesford "
The guest made some careless reply, and then, with a search-
ing glance, asked:
"Pray, why is not Ifarian here to welcome her lover?2"
"The girl is ill," responded the old gentleman.
"Ah ! and what is the matter ?"
"Indeed we don't hardly know; she seemed well enough till
last night, and then one of the servants found her in a dead
faint in the garden. He brought her in, and called me and the
housekeeper, and we have done the best we could for her. To-
day she cannot raise her head from the pillow, and yet she will
not allow me to send for a physician."
"And you cannot account for her sudden illness," resumed
Aylesford.I
"No, no, I am completely mystified; her nerves must have
received a great shock, but I can elicit nothing from her."
.Aylesford started, and his fierce blood glowed through his
cheek, and flamed in his dark eyes.
"I believe I can fathom the mystery," he rejoined-" though
you are not aware of it, your daughter expected to meet Lau-
rence Verner by the Sacred Well at ten o'clock last night.n"
"Impossible-she would not dare disobey me thus."
"It is, nevertheless as true as the gospel, Squire Winthrop.
I got an inkling of the plan, and resolved to foil the young vil-
lain. He wrote a note, which he concealed in a bouquet, and
hired a shepherd lad to drop at Marian's feet. I met the boy
on his way, and as I had the heaviest purse bribed him to my
service. The plot worked to a charm-it was , instead of Lau--
rence Verner, who walked with Marian at the- well of St. Clare,
but she did not for a time attempt to conceal her disappoint-.'
ment, acknowledging to my face, that she would vhstly have
preferred a meeting with Laurence Verner."
" By the powers, is the girl mad I" exclaimed the old squire,
beating his gold-headed cane vigorously on the stone fiags of
the perch-" if you had not told me, I would not have credited

a

,10

I

this story, Mark Aylesford. . Even now I can hardly believe it."
"Her infatuation is as perplexing as it is-singular," observed
the guest, "and though I succeeded in breaking up the tryst
at the Holy Well, I fear they met afterward in your own
grounds."
"1I will go in and inquire of the servants," said is host, and
while Aylesford restlessly promenaded the gravel walk where
he had dismounted, Squire Winthrop hurried into the kitchen.
The servants were one by one interrogated, but to no purpose,
and the old squire stalked to the stables to find the coachman,
who, returning late from an adjoining town, had found Marian
and borne her into the house.
"Tom," began his master, "circumstances have led me to.
think your young mistress had a clandestine meeting with a-
person whose attentions I have forbidden, and that in some way,,
was the cause of her fainting."-
He paused, but Tom was silent, and he went on:
" If you saw anybody with Marian, or about the grounds,
you know me too, well to attempt to trifle with me."
The coachman hesitated a moment, but though the master
could be most genial when in the mood, he was cold, harsh and
exacting, if opposed, and therefore he reluctantly said:
"It is hard to speak evil of my young mistress, sir, but I did
see from the stable here, the gentleman who has of late been
staying at the Grange with Hal Warland."
" Verner-Laurence Verner," muttered the old man, and Tom
nodded assent, adding:
" Their meeting could not have been a pleasant one, sir, for
when he darted through the grounds, he looked pale and stern,
and she-you know how I found her lying half-dead on the
grass as if she had no heart to live longer."
"Enough," cried Squire Winthrop, and in a paroxysm of rage
he strode back to his guest.
Well," said Aylesford, "have you learned anything to
confirm my suspicion? "
" Yes,, there was a meeting," and he prcedtoepa
Tom'setory." exclimed Aylesford, "he shall answer to me for
riin bWetween ec anmd mybetrothed bride! .I will go down to
the  rang, ad hav at least a brief interview with my rival.I
"Ay, ay, bring the young scapegrace tofr justie"hed Squir.
Winthrop, and mounting his teed ,yefr   ase   wy

V-

I
I,


THE WELL OF ST. CLARE.

CHAPTER II.

THE

GRANGE-HAL WARLAND-MARK AYLESFORD'S VISIT-
HEAVIER CLOUDS IN MARIAN WINTHROP'S SKY.

WARLAND GRANGE was a fine specimen .of -an old English
country-seat, and sufficiently picturesque to have been *trans-
ferred to the sketch-book of any travelling artist. The house
was built of Cornwall granite, with fantastic gables, dormer
windows, sunk deep into the high, peaked roof, and tall, tower-
like chimneys. The hedges looked like green ramparts; the
trees grew in unpruned luxuriance; moss and ivy matted the
walls, and the whole place wore an air of neglect, for years,
before some sorrow had driven Mr. Warjand abroad,-and since
then he had rarely visited his home. Three months previous to
the date of our stoi'y, he had returned, bringing with him a
young man, whose kinduess during-Warland's illness on the
voyage, had awakened his deepest gratitude. Of Laurence
Verner he knew nothing, save that he was an orphan, and fromn
his childhood had fought a stern battle with the world, encoun-
tering poverty, hardship and privation on every hand. Such
was Laurence V-rner when, at a Mayday fete, he had met
Marian Winthrop, the belle of the country. Was it a strange
destiny, that made him seem the realization of the girl's ideal,
and gave his look and tone a power, no other suitor had pos-
y sessed ? Neither her father, nor Mark Aylesford, was able to
be present, and his hand placed the crown on her brow, and
during the long, bright hours of the day, she danced and chatted
with him to her heart's content. Squire Winthrop had after-
ward denounced him as a mere adventurer, and closed his doors
upon him, but Marian could not dash aside the cup, foaming at
her lips with its perilous sweetness. Again and again there
had been chance meetings,.and their mutual interest had ripened
ilto love-that love, which is either the blessing or the bane of
our lives. Squire Winthrop's fortunes, like those of many .an
.English house, were fast deeliBing, and the immense wealth of

112

8

THE WELL OF ST. CLARE.              113
Niark Aylesford had rendered his suit acceptable to the avari-
cious father, and gained from him what Marian had firmly
withheld-the promise of her hand. It is true there were people,
who declared that Aylesford was a man of lawless habits, but to
these rumors the squire was deaf, or if he listened, he asserted
that envy prompted the scandal.
Mark Aflesford's manner boded no good, as he stalked along
the grassy path, which wound from the high-road to Hal War-
land's door, and gave a furious rap. The next moment, he was
ushered into a dim library, where among his books, busts,
pictures and medallions, sat a gentleman, somewhat past the
prime of life.
" Have I the honor of addressing Mr. Hamilton Warland 2"
asked the intruder, with mock deference.
Warland bowed, and he continued:
"Well, sir, I am Mark Aylesford of Aylsford Park, and I
have Come to ask a few questions."
"Pray be seated,"'and Warland pointed to a chair.
"No, thank you-my call will doubtless be brief, and I must
at once proceed to business. Where is Mr. Verner-I must see
him immediately; he has outraged me beyond endurance, and
I will hold him responsible !"
"Please explain yourself," said Mr. Warland, coolly.
"By Jove, he-has stolen the heart of my lady-love, and le
shall answer for it!"
1"Do not get into a passion, sir-Mr. Verner has left the
country."
" Left the country !" cried Aylesford, and for a time he paced
the floor in wild exultation; then he paused before Warland,
and hissed:
"After all, this may be a trick to cheat me out of my revenge,
but if you have deluded me, the worst is your own I" And he
shook his clenched hand in his companion's face.
" Silence !" exclaimed Warland, springing from his chair withk
a dignity that well nigh awed the bravado-" I do not fear you,
but as a gentleman I think your insults beneath my notice !
Leave me, and never again presume to set foot in my house."
Muttering a curse, Mark Aylesford withdrew, and dashed off
to the manse, where Squire Winthrop was awaiting-him.
" Have you seen the young scapegrace-?" queried the old man,
as Aylesford stopped once more by the rustic porch.
" No, the coward has left England, ijf Warland's word is to be

I

r.
H

11

1.


I

THE WELL OF ST. CLArIE.

. TUE WELL.OF ST. CLARE.

*

trusted. How is that, for I have no acquaintance with him, as
I have come into the neighborhood since he bas been-abroad."
"Yes, yes, I think we can rely on him," rejoined the squire,
"and I must conflss, I feel greatly relieved if he has gone,; it is
sufficient proof that his love was hopeless; it also confirms my
daughter's statement, for during your absence I questioned her,
and she told me that they met last night, and parted forever."
"She conftbssed they had a meeting then," observed Aylesford,
with a lowering brow.
"Yes, but since he has left the country, you have naught to
fear."
" By Heaven, he may return any day, and clandestinely snatch
my prize from me. I cannot rest till she is mine, Squire
Winthrop."
"She shall be yours whenever you will it, &amp;ylesford-fix the
wedding-day, and she shall be ready-you have a Winthrop's
promise "
"Let it be a month hence-you see I am an Impatient lover."
"Indeed, under the circumstances, I am not surprised at your
eagerness."
"I leave it to you to inform Marian of our decision; as her
nerves are in such a state, I think I had better not seek'*an ini-
terview to-day, but to-morrow you may expect me." -
Thus they parted, and Hark Aylesford went careering away
over hill and dale, with a thousand tumultuous thoughts rioting
in his brain.
"Confound it," he exclaimed, as he glanced at his watch,,
"this mad .chase after a love-sick 'boy has swallowed up my
time-I shall be late at the place where I was to keep my ap-
pointment, and he will be furious and desperate! What a fate
it is, to make friends and' allies of men you despise and fear !'"
As he spoke, he urged his steed onward, and at length struck
into a dense wood., He had gone but a short distance through
the shadows, when he perceived the ruffian, who.had been the
first to waylay Laurence Verner on the lonesome moor. It
was' evident that he walked with extreme difficulty, and, one
arm was in a sling. .
" Hand over the gold," he cried, in a surly tone,.
" The gold was not earned," retorted Aylesford. " Laurence
Verner was in Squire Winthrop's garden before midnight."
" You only bade us detain him so thait lie could not reach the
well of St. Clare at the hour he~ was expected, and we have kept

114

our part of the contract-keep 'yours, or there will. be trouble
in the camp."
"You have nothing to do with it-Gates is the man I came
to meet-where is he ?"
"Not in these woods."
"Where then ?" queried Aylesford, in evident alarm.
"He is playing the gentleman, and has gone down to Ayles-
ford Park."
A volley of oaths answered the highwayman, and wheeling
his horse, he rode to his own stately home. It was evening
when he reached his estate, and as he galloped through the
park, deer wen-t bounding through the green vistas, statues
gleamed like beautiful petrifactions amid the dusk, and foun-
tains and cascades flung up a silvery spray. On entering the
hall of the grand mansion, which owned him as its master, he
found himself in a flood of rich light, shed. by the glittering
chandelier, and as he moved from room to room, his feet sank
deep in gorgeous carpets, while rare drapings, tables, mirrors,
lounges, lamps and vases were scattered about in tasteful pro-
fusion. At the door of' his chamber he met his confidential
servant, who whispered:.
"Sir, you've a guest waiting for you within.
"Gates, is it not ?"
"Yes, did you expect to find him here?"
" Not till a comrade told me he had come-do you think. any
of the servants saw, or suspected him or his errand ?"
"No, my good. master, you need not fear-i spied- him at a
little distance, and managed to smuggle him into the house
unobserved."
"Bravo." And Aylesford thrust two or three, gold coins into
Robert's hand, and stole into the room where Philip Gates sat,
sullen and wrathful.
"Mark Aylesford," he cried, " you are worse than a fool to
make an enemy of me I Balch and I well nigh lost our lives' in
that encounter on the moor, and yet the gold is not forth-
coming.,
Aylesford replied as he had in the forest, but the outlaw de-
clared that they had kept Laurenee Verner on the moor beyond
the time specified, and required the fulfilment of the contract.
He sa~w that he was in the highwayman''s power, and was
' obliged',to count out the promised stum, and seal his lips with
another bribe. Aylesford breathed more freely when -the des-

115

2 F

I


I

I

perado was lost to sight amid the shadows, and he paused, in
the portico, muttering:
" Henceforth I shall not need their aid to carry on my suit
with Marian-in a month more she will be mine."
Soliloquizing thus, he closed the door, and sauntered in to his
late dinner. When he had gone, a woman muffled in a loose,
foreign cloak of black cloth, and with a face which still retained
traces of rare beauty, in spite of the haggard cheek, dishevelled
hair, and dark, mournful eyes, rose from her hiding-place hard
by the massive steps, on which Aylesford had' been standing.
It would be impossible to describe the expression of her coun-
tenance, or give an idea of the agony which wailed out in the
cry:
"0, my God! it is all true then ! Marian Winthrop Is to be
his wife, unless I can prevent the marriage."
For a few moments she stood reflecting, the storm Within
painting itself on every feature. At length she said:
"I will go-there can be no harm in speaking a word to her,
at least-whether she heed me or not, I must warn her !"
Darting through the grounds, as if her purpose had lent her
wings, she hastened toward the manse. The night "was far on
her pathway of stars," when she gained the quaint, many-gabled
old house, tenanted by the Winthrops. How steadfast were
the stars, looking out at her from the tranquil blue of the sum-
mer sky-how like the face of a young vestal, the moon shone
above the rugged heights of Cornwall, how softly the flowers
rocked in the south wind, how fair was the landscape, stretch-
ing as far as her eye could sweep! What a blessed quiet seemed
to brood everywhere, save in her own heart! Her step was un-
steady as she crossed the dewy garden, and moved along the
terrace beneath the window through which she had seen a light
glimmering. As she paused, she saw a face pressed hard
against the pane, and then a pair of restless hands flung up the
casement, and a young girl leaned forth to cool her fevered
brow.
"Are you Marian Winthrop 2" inquired the strange woman.
" Yes, madam, do you want a night's shelter ?"
" No, no-there can be no rest for me in the wide world, but,
but I have mueli to say to you."
" Come in-the balcony steps lead to my chamber. Perhaps
I am rash to admit you, but something in your face gives me a'
painful interest In you."

THE WELL OF ST. CLARE.

In another Instant the woman stood before her, and grasping
her arm, exclaimed:
"I have heard that you are engaged to Mark Aylesford-is4 it
true, or merely gossip ?"
Ma ian bowed, for she could not find voice to speak, and the
stranger went on.
"Do you love him?"
"Love him? No, no-I hate Mark Aylesford! The match
is my father's, not mine, and if they force me to marry him, it
will break my heart."
"And what renders him your father's favorite ?"
His wealth, madam-his grand mansion, his carriages, his
horses, his Cornwall mines-these are weighed in the balance
against my own happiness."
"Poor girl, poor girl!" And the woman's fingers wandered
softly over Marian's gold-brown hair, while her tears fell thick
and fast---"if it is in my power," she added, "I will save you
from a marriage which would be a living death. Mark Ayles-
ford is unworthy of you," and she proceeded to make a startling
disclosure. "And now," she said, "promise me one thing,
Marian Winthrop."
"And what is it ?"
"That you will appear to accede to your father's wishes, and
keep what I have revealed a secret, till I unseal your lips."
"I promise," replied Marian, and they separated.
When the stranger had gained the garden below, she stopped,
and looked back at the house through a mist of warm tears.
" She shall not be sacrificed," she muttered, "if I can save her
from such a doom. What would Mark Aylesford say if his wife
should be snatched from him at the very altar, and Laurence
Verner win the prize? God knows I am not seeking to avenge
my wrongs, but to rescue a pure young girl from a marriage she
declares would break her heart."

t,

I

tj

THIE WELL OF ST. CLABE.

117

110

~~ ~

k I

,


THE WELL'OZ ST. CLAIIE*-

THE WELL OF ST. CLARE.

-

jik

CHAPTER IIL

STP*ANGB

DEVELOPMENTS--A VOYAGE
XEL---OLD FRIENDS IN NEW

.,

ACROSS THE
PLACES#

CHAN-

- WHNT Mark Aylesford v*iited the Winthrops the day subse-
- quent to the stormy scenes at the Grange, and with the indignant
outlaws, he was surprised at the change in Marian. . She was
still pale, her smile faint, and her step languid, but she did not
treat him with-scorn, pr positive coldness.
"Mark,' she said, as they sat together in the old-fashioned
parlor, "Laurence Verner and I have had a quarrel, and as he
declares, parted forever. I shall. no longer oppose my - father's
wishes."
Bravo, bravo! that is all we - could ask now," exclaimed
Aylesford; "and as for me, I am not without hope that you may
yet be the happiest as you now are the loveliest. woman in
Cornwall."
The squire hastened to offer his congratulations and in
bumpers ofthe best Bordeaux drank to the future Mrs. Aylesford.
Marian gradually rallied from  the shock her system had
received, and began to manifest a womanly interest in the festal
preparations, and the trousseau, which was- to be the envy of
the village girls.
One day she sat bending over a. piece of fine needlework,
when there was a tap at her door, and the housekeeper bustled
in, exclaiming:                      -           .
" Both your father and I think we need two or three more
servants till after the wedding, and Tom, the coachman, has
sent a seamstress--a nice, quiet sort of person she seems, but of
course you must decide thienatter, Miss Marian."
"Show her in," replied the girl, and the next instant the
stranger stood in her presence. Though the luxuriant dark hair
was concealed by a widow's cap, and the lustre of the brilliant
eyes covered by a pair of spectacles, and various other disguises
employed, Marian recognized the face of her who had made
such startling revelations with regard to Mark Aylesford. Her

heart gave a wild bound, but, save the quick, significant glance
that passed between them, there was no other 'token of recog -
nition.
"The housekeeper tells me," observed Marian, "that you
have come to apply for the situation of , eamstress."
"Yes; and you, I presume, are Miss Winthrop."
Marian nodded, and the woman went on:
"Perhaps. you would like to look at my references."
"No, it does not matter; your needlework is the best recom-
mendation. I can soon judge \ whether you will suit me, and
if you do not, I shall dismiss you."
Marian then stated the price she would pay, and guided the
new seamstre -s into the sewing-room, which was in the rear of
the house, and commanded a view of the kitchen garden, with
its thrifty fruit-trees, 'and beds of vegetables, and the green
paddocks and dim copses beyond.. A great horse-chestnut
shaded the windows, and wood ine crept over the antique
lattice. As. Marian pointed to the wedding dress, which was
not yet finished, a sudden faintness drove the blood from the
stranger's cheek, and she drew her 'breath gaspingly, at the
memories it evoked. She -staggered to a seat near the window,
and mechanically commenced her task, bat as she proceeded,
hot tears fell bn the thick moire, and her fingers trembled
nervously amid its folds.
After giving a few directions, the bride-elect glided from the
room, and the new seamstress.was left to -her own thoughts.
tHer work being satisfactory, she was told that she could remain
till after the wedding, at least, and she and Marian played their
.part so well that nobody suspected the ruse which had been
practised. The servants, from the housekeeper to the scullion,
were loud in her praise, and even the squire declared her-quite
an acquisition. Mark Aylesford was of course a frequent
visitor, and God alone knows what she suffered when she heard
his step, his voice, his boisterous laugh, ringing up from the
dining-hall, and saw the splendid gifts he had- purchased for his
young bride. The first time he visited Marian after her engage-
mnent, at the manse, his tone3s floated to her ear from the terrace
where he -had chanced to meet the girl, and she saw him bend
low, apad lift that little hand to his lips. 'Involuntarily she gasped
the word " MARK ;" but her articulation was - too faint to be
heard by her companions in the work-i-oom, and she soon gained
sufficient self-ontrol to preserve her secret. A terrible anguish

118   '

.           V   -

119

ii!
IL
4
3e

4


0

120-

THE WELL OF ST. CLARE.

was gnawing at her heart; the spell of the past was strong upon
her, but she dared not moan, dared not shriek out her agony.,
lIt was on the third week of her stay with the Winthrops, that
she stood by Marian's dressing-table, examining a set of dia-
monds, which Mark Aylesford had just sent by his liveried foot-
man. The lamp-light shone over them till they were all a-blaze,
but both Marian and the woman known as Mrs. Holt were
frightfully pale as they gazed. They had been left for a moment
alone, and clasping her hands, the girl wailed:
"0, when, when will this farce end? .
"Wait and hope," rejoined the woman. "Be-patient, for my
plans are working better than I could have expected. In God's
own good time, you shall be released."
They were now interrupted, but the girl's smile told how 'she
had been cheered by the stranger's assurance.
And Mark Aylesford-what of him? Though he was appa-
rently the happiest of lovers, he had been persecuted by Gates
and his ruffianly crew, and besides, a new fear had dawned
upon him. On returning home from a visit to the manse, his
confidential servant had followed him into his chamber, and
muttered:
"I have evil tidings, for you, my waster."
"What can it be? Has Gates renewed his demands, or
Laurence Verner come stealing into Cornwaill ?"
"Neither, sir."
"Confound you, Robert, speak out-I never could bear
suspense."l
"I verily believe Ginevra is in the neighborhood."
"Nonsense-I will not credit the story-I tell you she is
leagues and leagues away."
Robert 'shookhis head, exclaiming:
"I am not deceived. - Ginevra, or her ghost, has haunted
Aylesford Park of late. I have seen a woman litting about like-
a shadow-a woman with a foreign air and costume, and do
you think I could mistake Ginevra ?"
Aylesford reflected a few moments, and then said:
" By Heaven, if she is here, she must be plotting some mis-
chief-women always are, when they cannot have everything'to
suit their own purposes; but in less than a week Marian will be
my wife, and I can laugh at fate."
The bridal evening at length came, and before the mirror in
Marian's dressing-chamnber, a lady stood making her toilet.

T    ELL OF ST. CLARE.

121

The bridesmaids had not yet arrived, and with her own hands
she put on the thick moire robe, trailing about her like frosted
silver, the vapory veil, the delicate gloves, and the   ad
parure. A sharp cry sounded through the room, as the lady
gazed at the reflection in the toilet-glass, and with a hurried
step she paced the carpet. Suddenly there was atap at the
door, and Mark Aylesford's voice asked:
"Are you ready, Marian ?"
"Quite ready," was the low reply, and the lady enclosed the
door.. The next moment she had drawn back her veil, revealing
a pale face, which still Wore a solemn beauty.ca
"Ginevra I"-faltered Aylesford, while his chest heaved, and
the flush died away from his cheek.
For a time there was a deep silence, and then he exclaimed:
"Woman, what cursed game have you been playing on me
"Mark," responded the lady,1"do not act thebravado.
have not come to revenge myself on you for my wrongs, but to
save you from sin, and Marian Winthrop from a fate that would
have been worse than death."
At that instant Squire Winthrop, clad in his holiday suit, and
wittha white favor in his buttonhole, made his appearance on
the threshold.
"Marian," he began,"the bridesmaids have come.1"
"It can be of no use, sir," said the woman, firmly.  tam
Mark Aylesford's wife, and no wedding can take place to-night.
These papers contain the proofs of my statement ;" and she
produced a certificate, which the old man read in silent dismay.
"From the certificate you will see," resumed the stranger, ithat
on the twelfth of May, 1859, Marcus Aylesford and Ginevra
Borghese were married, by the Rev. Father Raphael Lenotti, in
distant Rome. I am the daughter of a noble house, ind it was
an evil hour for me, when, with my old father's curse ringing in
MY ears, became thewife of the young Englishman, who hd
fascinated me as a serpent would charm a bird.- For a time I
bascined  ve's sshinepebntradually he grew neglectful, and
at last entirely desete e."  u  iha  utoiaiegsue
"Silence I" cried Aylsodbtihanatrttiegtue
Squire Winthrop exclaimed:      onhueIa           atr
" Let the woman speak! in my onhueIa            atr
Lady, go on."             ier       otaltae     fh  m
" For five years," continued eraetuotal torngaes o hi;
but finally I learned that heharetidtolgadthi

-I
I1
Ig


123

122

THE WELL OF ST. CLARE.

native land, and then I resolved. to follow him. On reaching'
Cornwall, the casual gossip of the foungers at the village inn
revealed the fact that he was betrothed to a young English girl,
and I have exerted every effort to prevent such a sin on his%
part, and such a sacriflee on hers, as would l'e this marriage.
Disguised as a seamstress, I gained employment in your family,
and won the friendship of your daughter. Mrs.' Holt and
Ginevra Aylesford are one. Marian told me you coveted his
houses, his lands, his extensive Cornwall mines, but you will
bless the day when I rescued your pure and beautiful child from
an alliance with a man, Who has gained his riches by contraband
traffic, and is really the employer and associate of the outlaws
of the Cornish moors !"
"Ye gods!" muttered the old man, advancing to Mark
Aylesford, "your face confirms the stranger's statement-guilt
Is written on every feature, and I scorn you !" Here, Tom,
John," he shouted to the servants, "put this man out of the.
house!"
" Ay, ay," responded the lackeys, and as Tom crossed the
threshold, he exclaimed:  '
"I am glad the villain is unmasked, my dear master. Of late
I have interested myself a good deal in Miss Marian's fate, and
I knew him to. be hand-and-glove with the robbers of the moor.
I have been eaves-dropping when he has met them in the forest,
and in Aylesford Park. I helped the deserted wife to her place
in your household, and travelled with my young lady to the
place where ,she met the stage-coach. Her headach&amp; was
feigned, sir-At was only a stratagem to get off before ,our plot
should be found.out."
Mark Aylesford was writhing with passion, but had' his' life
depended on it, he could not have uttered a- word. Tom and
his fellowservant thrust him down the steps, and Robert, his,
right hand man, lifted him, when le sank in a strange paralysis
to the ground. Hard by stood the splendid equipage, in which
he expected to bear home his fair bride-the blood horses arch-
ing their glossy necks, and pawing the earth with a spirit that
showed their mettle. Robert placed his master within, anid
closing the door upon him, ordered the coachman to drive with
the utmost speed to Aylesford Park. '
When he had gone, Squire Winthrop turned to Ginevra, and.
offered his acknowledgments for her agency in revealing Mark
Aylesford's real characters.            ,

THE WELL OF ST. CLARE.

"And'now," he continued, where is Marian? I must confess
my fault, and beg her pardon. I would rather beg my bread
from door to door, than see her the wife of Aylesford."
"She started, iny dear sir, for the continent; a friend of hers
was to sail from your own Cornwall coast on a wedding tour,
and I have borne messages to and fro, arranging the matter
between the two young ladies. Bertha Ruthven is the only
child, of a rich man, and she can afford to be generous and:
defray the expenses of Marian's voyage across the channel."
"Across the channel 1" echoed the old man-" when was the
vessel to sail ?"
"Early teo-day, sir."
"And where from?"
" The little fishing village-of Wareham, whence many of Mr.
Ruthven's vessels sail."
" She must not go," cried Squire Winthrop. "Old as I am,
I will mount my horse and gallop to Wareham. Perhaps some-
thing may have occurred to delay them, and I shall find them
there.
A half-hour later, Squire Winthrop mounted his iron-gray
horse, and rode off at a brisk pace, attended by Tom and a
sturdy groom. All night the trio galloped on without stopping,
and at dawn gained the little village of which .Ginevra had
spoken. .A soft inist was rolling up from the hill dotted-with
low cottages, a red light flushed the waters, and fishers' boats lay
rocking with the tide. The old man drew rein beside the first.
group he encountered on a rude pier, and said:
"I wish to'inquire about the 'Elsinore,' which is to sail
from your port, I am told."
"She has gone, sir; a stiff breeze sprang up at noon, and she
must bemany a league from here now."
An expression of keen disappointment settled on, the old
man's face, and silent and thoughtful, he took his way back to
the manse.
Leaving him to regret his. blindness and folly, we will follow
the fortunes of Marian Winthrop svere hadachine, she onlato
locked her room on the plea of Afteere headpache, bith oyto
aid in effecfting her escape.boreter tohe vllatte wi Tove
the lumbering' stage-coachbrhetohevlaeIav
desribdwhee he found Bertha Ruthven .and her .husband
awaciing hererything ws in readiness for her departure,
and at twilight, when the wrongedGnramtMkAye.

I.
I
I
4V
8

I

I

.11

V
f
;r..
1
A-

17

I

ut,

I


THE WELL OF ST. 7CLA E-

125

TItIE WELL OF ST. CLARE.

I

'I

I

ford, she stood on the deck, of the "Elsinore," watching the
sunset glow which still lingered on the waves, and the fast-
receding shores of rugged Cornwall. In due time they reached
Havre, and then commenced in good earnest their continental
- wanderings. Marian's heart was full of Laurence Verner, but
where, where was he? Such was her query, as she traversed
the busy streets of Paris, visited the German baths, and loitered
by fountains and in grottoes, temples and galleries, famed in
romance and in song. Finally they reached Venice, the Queen
of the Adriatic-,-that fair city of the sea, with her storild palaces
and prisons, her deep lagunes, her fanciful gondolas, and
romantic gondoliers. Our party stood one day, leaning over
the parapet of the Bridge of Sighs, of which Byron sung, when.
like our tourists, he was a wanderer. Suddenly a familiar voice
struck Marian's ear, and glancing round with an involuntary
movement, she saw Laurence Verner. Her brain whirled, but
through all her agitation,she was perfectly conscious of what
was passing.
. An unexpected meeting," he observed, coolly. "I presume
you are on your wedding jaunt, Mrs. Aylesford."
The next instant Marian had sunk fainting to the ground,
but as her friends raised her, Mr. Ruthven replied.:
"No MArs. Aylesford belongs to our party, sir; that match
was broken up. My wife and Miss Winthroj have long been
friends, and she fled with us to avoid a marriage which would
have been a living death to her."
Verner's features worked convulsively, and grasping Ruth-
ven's hand, he faltered:
" Then I must have been misled; such was my love for that
girl, that I would- have. laid down my life for her sake, but I
thought her cold and false, when I parted from her in Cornwall."
"Ah, sir, I suspect you are Laurence Verner."
"Yes, yes-perhaps you have heard her speak.of me."
"Indeed I have, sir, and I-know one thing-she loves you
with all her heart."
"Give her to me," said the young man, " and let me go home
with  you."      .-                              -
" Certainly, certainly." And resigning his burden, Ruthven
motioned 1o.a goindolier.
With reverent, tenderness, Verner bore his now precious
charge to the gondola, and they drifted on till the y-gained a
flight of marble steps leading to the old palace, where the Ruth-

vens had taken lodgings. There the gondolier stopped, and-
Laurence Verner moved along the tesselated floor to a spacious
saloon, contrasting vividly with the low, wainscotted rooms of
her home in Cornwall.
Wi4gh instinctive delicacy, Mr. and Mrs. Ruthven withdrew,
and the re-united lovers were left alone.. It was not long ere
Marian manifested tokens of returned consciousness, and as her
eyes unclosed, they fell on the penitent face of Laurence
Verner.
"Marian, Marian," he murmured, "at last, at last I see you
once more. While you have been senseless, your friends have
told me sufficient to convince me that I misjudged you, when
we parted, as I thought, forever."
"Yes, Laurence-I received a note, which, as God hears me,
I supposed to be from you, begging me to walk that night by
the brink of the Holy Well. I went there, fully expecting to
meet you, but instead I encountered Mark Aylesford. I told
him frankly of my -disappointment, but his- rage filled me with
forebodings on- your account, and I feared to provoke him
further. I walked home with him in no enviable mood, and
when I would have explained to you, Laurence, you taunted
me, with fickleness, and froze my blood with your scorn. I
fainted in the grounds, and was very ill the next day, arousing
Aylesford's suspicion that there'had been a meeting between
us, and my secret was -betrayed. He insisted on an immediate
marriage, and I was looking hopelessly into the future, when a
stranger came to my rescue;" and she proceeded to relate the
story of Ginevra. Laurence Verner listened intently till she
had concluded, and then sank at her feet, murmuring:
"I dare not ask you to forgive me--my rashness has well nigh
wrecked my life, and your own."
"0 , Laurence, this meeting repays mie for all I have suffered
-no shadow of blame falls upon you, when I look back into
these eventful six months since I have known you."
" Dear, dear Marian, I cannot thank you as I ought, but the
future shall show you how grateful I am. I will try and prove
/ more worthy of your love and confidence than Mark Aylesford.
It is true I am a poor man, and from my, boyhood have been a
waif in the world, tossed about by a fickle fortune, but with you
for my good angel, I feel that I can do wonders. Some of my
recent paintings have been admired an d purchased by lovers of
art, and now I shall have a fresh inspiration. With Heaven's

124

-i1
I
I

hi

f,


126            TUE WELL OF ST. CLAR.-
smile,, the sailor boy shall yet be an- artist of whom yon will be
proud.",
Marian's smiles, tears and blushes answered him, and late that
night, they walked where the waves of the Adriatic murmured
softly as- a wind harp, with love once more weaving its bright
halo around their hearts-
The next steamer brought a letter, which contained Squire
Winthrop's confession, and an urgent request for Marian to
return. The girl wrote a long and affectionate reply, and one
passage was as follows:
"I have found old friends in new places, and hope again stirs
witin me. Laurence and I are reconciled, and we only need
your sanction to our betrothal, to make our happiness complete."
As soon as possible, Squire Winthrop despatched this brief,
but characteristic answer:
"I shall no longer attempt to stand between you and Lau-
rence Verner, and hope to see you both at no distant day, in

the old manse."

Such was the state of- affairs, when Verner -hurried into
Marian's presence, with a sheet, of closely-written paper in his
hand.
"I have the strangest news for you," he said, pausing at her
side, and looking down into her beautiful face-"Dearest Marian-
you are not to marry a mere nobody, after all."
"What do you mean, Laurence? Some sudden hallucination
must have seized you, for, believe me, I never thought you. a
nobody."
"1I am perfectly serious; what will you say when I tell you
that this letter is from Hamilton Warland, and informs me I
am his nearest survivingikinsman-the son of a brother, who,
having wasted his strength to amass wealth in a foreign- clime,
is dying of consumption at the Grange T
"Indeed, I know not what to think," rejoined Marian, and
her lover went on:-
"I must go back to England at once, and meet my long-lost
father, if possible, before he dies."
"Yes, yes, Laurence ;" and preparations were immediately
made for the homeward voyage.
It was in the golden-robed autumn, that they again took their
way through the familiar scenes of Cornwall, and stopped at the

THE WELIiOF ST. CLARE.

Grange. The young man's uncle conducted him Into the room
occupied by hi brother, and sinking by the be,sid, Iaurence
niurmured:
"1My dear father."
"Thank God, you have -come ! for It would soon have -been
too*late. I am failing fast, my boy."
"And how does it happen that we have never met for twenty
years ?"
"I have been subject to the vicissitudes of a foreign land,
and for five years an inmate of a Chinese prison; but I have
improved my time since I was released, and you will be rich
when I am gone, Laurence. They tell me you have had i hard
struggle with the world, and been deprived of home, friends,
and your rightful name since I left you with your old nurse, at
the age of four, in a remote Welsh town."
"0, sir, I shall value wealth only as it will minister to the
comfort of my betrothed bride, whd is with ine. Marian, &amp;ome
hither; I am glad you can meet my father before he dies."
The dying man looked yearningly ,into- her face, seized
Marian's hand with a convulsive grasp, and placed it in his son's;
the next moment he was dead.
After sark Aylesford had recovered from the sudden illness
that had fastened on him at finding himself thus exposed, lh
set~ out for the continent, vowing that Marian should never
marry Laupnce Verner; but his crew were smitten. with the
small-pox, and the' ship became a floating pest-house. On
reaching Marseilles, he was obliged to remain. quarantinee,
and while he lay; scorched with fever, and writhing with pain,
a woman ventured into the infected calUn. It was Ginevral
Her patient devotion awoke all that was generous in his nature,,
and from the hour of his recovery, lie abandonedd his, lawless
habits, and devoted himself to.his wife.
When the year of mourning for Hugh Warland had expired,
Laurence took Marianto be the light of his home, the joy of
his heart, and now their childrenplay amid- the 'moss-grown
stones around the Well of St. Clare. .
.       ..  / $  4'.  .

II

B
it
I
I
I
5;

I

I

I

121

1
4


UNION

A

This sterling literary paper holds out charming iMduce-
ments for the coming year. Its circulation is more extended
than any other paper of- its class in the country, and, with its
distinctive features of

AND

NO

ADVERTISEMENTS,

I
'Ii-
~Ii~
I
I
"I'
-3;

ANECDOTES AND ADVENTURES,

T, HUXgOR FUN A)TD FANCY,
POETRY, EDITORIALS, MISCELLANY,
AND GENERAL INFORMATION,

it cannot fail to be a welcome visitor to the

FIRESIDE OR CAMP,
and for all classes, and conditions of men.
TERMS:-3 a Year.-Single Copies, Seven Cents.
.- Ti~ xEzmRICAN UmON.and DoLLAR oHMILY will be sent one
year for $4.00; the8 UmoN and NOVELITTE, for $5.00; the Umroxi and
FL&amp;G, for $5.50; the UnroN, NOVELETE and DoxAR MonTHL, - for
$6.00; the whok of our publications, including UNoN, FLAG, NovuxrE
and Dom" zi M oaTHLfor $8.50.

I

ELLIOTT, HOMES &amp; TALBOT, Publishers,
118 Washington street, Boston, Mass.

sit.QE~oTh                   'tGr    t
low~j
.60 i:Ai
OT3~
-*                  4 3  3         C 'I3 I  I
3k ' ''~   ~~~4 ~:32V'3~~.1"-'3~~lo,- " "'a'
4''-  3'''3'3
V  '43                                      3,l'3l3lxl'3

- 'I-

-, ~,,'

THE

AMERICAN

and its columns crowded to the brim with
CHA RMNG TALES AND SKETCHES,

NO CONTINUED STORIES

4

Ii51IU

BRILLANT NOVELETTES
We have on hand and for sa the following brilliant stories bound
form,,lstrated with le  ' gdeeragf-r-ge      hes
bopks in price ever offere&amp;to heublic. W will send sigle eopiesby
mail, postpaid, for 25-6&amp;ts each, or ve copies, post-paidfor one dolla.
HAAWWITTED NAT: or, Tk       Miser of Patuet. A story of
PoVineia 1mes. By....... .. ..t-*.R.....Da. J. U. ROBINSON.
THE UNEOWWN       or, The Se0rot falper. A Tale of"Wrong and
Retribution  .. ...s..IS.ON..A..,. . .........Da. J. H. RON8N
CYNTHIA. The, Pear of the Points. A Tale of New. York
By.. .... .r....*.. ......* ..  . g. .. .  .   ..*.....  9 e  La  mA.2J
teg al $ucner., y.  ..**9**... ,L*oaNAgT IU*AY
TH    MOUiNTfAaI (00 OL: or, Thefess   ofthe su
A Bt*rybfWfflAdvienttireiu Mxip. Byg. . .. DZ. . o-R-INSON
DIStNEfLRITEIDr or, The Heir of Motoormbe. A Tale of Englsh
STHE KING OW THU SEA., A romantic and stfring Tale of the Pear-.
Aesor and tre.moBy..... f.0...................UENEDT UNELINA -
THE QUEEN OD.       E 1rIA: or, Our Lady of the Oean. A
Taie of tvetrieand chivalry. By.......... .... NE B.LIE
TE HEART 8 SiECBET: or, The F'ortunaes of a Soldier. A
Tale of Love and the Low Ltitudes. By......... LIETENANT MURRAY.
THU TEXAN CRUISER: or, Calypso the Wanderer. A Tale of
the Mexican War. By...........................YLVANUSO)B.B,JL.
THE SEA LAEK: or, The Quadroon of Loisiaa. A Tale ofr the
Land and.Sea. 'B............ .. ... . u a....LIEUTENANT -MURRAY.
PA~  LAOO"N:. .r. .~ .Scourg of the Atle. A Str     f
 BIANCA: orD The Star of the Valley. A thriling and storic
manee of the Alps. ..... .......... .e..... e..... AUG J.H. DirGAN1NE5
MoRON'S BRIGAD: or, The LighDragoons.Ath1e orSh
Revolution. By.. ..*......... .... ....... .J. HIN~N.
THE ST ORM CEILDRSEN: or,'Tlhe Light-see er of Chan-~
ne. A Stor of   ee-tandM'Of    411-
STARIOrA&amp;ND GOID: or, The Heir of Glenvile  A Tale of the
*Tal i f on. 3 .... ,.........  ..maingys A.D ~ i e
THE RRBEL SPY: or, The0ing's VolunteersA Story of theA
Siege of Boston durng the Revolutionary War. B. .Da. 3.H. OIiNsN.
N    .IL: orThe Ohiad~     of tMBr~wA hI~~l)
ofKetnkydB.......       By.. ~   . ... -.a . 1 OBNOI
OTLADO OHESTER: or0 The YoungHorao
A Ole of Coloilu e  ya .  m ... . he. -
THE   LO   :   or, Shapshoteiof the    uu.  At    t
heQuke anL
of~~~40          0 ions )y.          R I  CO.-MRR*
~i~m AZ~Ui$4I AANIW: os,                 '.'



               
  
             
         
       
   
