
    ----CITATION----
        Moos, H. M. (1836-1894). Carrie Harrington .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC7279
    ----FULL TEXT----
         
       
          
             
             
               CARRIE HARRINGTON. 
               A SEQUEL TO HANNAH; OR, A GLIMPSE OF PARADISE. 
             
            BY THE AUTHOR OF "MORTARA," "RUDOLPH MORCENSTERN," "STRAY LEAVES," Etc. 
            
               CINCINNATI: 
               Published by BLOCH & CO.
             
          
       
      
         
            Carrie Harrington 
             
            CARRIE HARRINGTON. 
            A SEQUEL TO HANNAH; OR, A GLIMPSE OF PARADISE. 
             
               CHAPTER I. 
               THE COUNTRY BEAUTY AND THE CITY BELLE. 
               "ESAU, you have never yet refused me any thing-will you be less kind to me to-day?" 
               "What do you want, Kate?" 
               "I must go to the city, but I can't go alone. You have to accompany me there." 
               "When?" 
               "Right now." 
               This short colloquy was carried on between Kate Strong and Esau, a foundling adopted by her father when she herself was still a tiny little thing in swaddling clothes. 
               Never before was seen a greater disparity in external appearance than these two beings presented. 
               Allen Strong's daughter, better known among the lads along the Harrison Pike, close to her father's small farm, as "the handsome Kate," and "the belle of Hamilton County," was a young woman of near eighteen Summers, tall and gracefully grown, with hands, feet and face beautiful in their shape and structure, and liquid brown eyes large and dreamily looking from beneath a pair of arched and long-fringed lashes, throwing a strange, unaccountable halo over her fair, pale and translucently pure cheeks, which, though sweetly rounded and hued with the unmistakable tint of health, knew not the slightest shade of red to relieve the snowy white of that marble face. Her forehead, partially hidden beneath her soft brown hair that was smoothly combed over her temples and met behind her ears in a rich heavy crown, was neither high nor broad, but of that medium which, in connection with the rest of her small and well-defined features, expressed in the youthful possessor rather a shade of poetry, a world of simplicity, an excess of faith, than a nature richly endowed with intellectuality, shrewdness and decision. 
               Beautiful as she was, her charming figure scarcely possessed sufficient force of attraction to balance the disagreeable sense of aversion by which one felt involuntarily overcome at the sight of the strange figure, resting more like a lean, lank quadruped than a human being, upon the grass plat by her side. 
               Esau, as remarked before, was a foundling, and had been living with the Strongs from the time the honest farmer had picked him up-a babe scarcely a fortnight old-from the bank of a creek to which a muffled cry had directed him as he rode, one dark and gloomy night, through the meadows toward his home. When he had ridden up to the farm-house, and handed the small bundle, containing this lost waif in its folds, to his wife, he did not know what a life he had snatched from the jaws of death, which, but for him, must have closed upon it in a few brief hours. It was only after he had joined his better-half in the silent room, and was asked by her, "What on earth have you brought home with you, Allen?" that he took the bundle from his astonished wife's arms, and, gently laying it in the center of the broad, oaken table, loosened the knot and suffered his eyes to rest upon the kicking little thing literally buried in its folds. 
               Horror! Horror! 
               What a sickening, revolting sight presented itself to view! Something in the shape of a new-born babe, bereft by nature of every feature that is human, writhing in pain as it struggled in a distorted attitude. It had not the face of a human being, for a coarse, reddish hair covered both the rear and front of its head, which was in the shape, and had the mouth and nose, of a hare. Its hands were no hands, and its feet were no feet. It had nothing of the human being, save the eyes, which were of a beautiful deep blue, large and impressive, and the remainder of its body which was fair, fat and translucently pure. 
                
               "Take it back, Allen," were the first words the frightened wife addressed to the honest farmer, to whose arm she clung, her face pale as that of a corpse. "Take it back," she repeated, "it's no child-it's the devil," and she whispered a hurried prayer. 
               "Mother," and he slowly turned his eyes from the child to his wife, "God has sent it to us. We must keep and watch over it." 
               "That frightful--" 
               "Mother--" He observed a short pause then added in a warning voice, "be still." 
               "O, Allen! I can not assume this responsibility. The house is blessed that knows not such an abortion." 
               "Cursed, mother," replied the honest man, solemnly raising his finger heavenward, uncovering his head, "would be the house that closed the doors against so frail and lost a waif. Here, take it, mother, and know no difference in your love between it and our little Katie." 
               'Twas all that was ever said upon this topic, and from that time forth this distorted, unclaimed foundling knew no other home and no other love than that of Allen Strong and his family. 
               Esau was now nearly sixteen years old, had received a fair share of country-schooling, and was looked upon by his neighbors, who knew no more of his parentage than he, as a good, industrious, steady field-hand. Not once, in all the days of his life, either at school or out of school, at home, on the farm or elsewhere, had he joined the boys at play, or, later on, the companionship of men. No; he would stay at home, sunshine or rain, Summer or Winter, crouching moodily in some unfrequented spot at the house, barn or stable, or would stroll, when work was over and the sun was down, about the silent fields, with no companion save his unexpressed thoughts, bitter and dark as they were at times, to feed upon. He was as silent as the grave, never spoke unless he was spoken to, and then nine times out of ten, would scarcely answer at all, and if he did, it was with a curtness that would have been considered in any one else but him an extreme rudeness. He shunned the presence of all strangers-no matter who they were-as if he hated and envied them for the fair proportions an unjust nature had denied him. He never laughed nor wept, nor showed signs of pleasure or pain, but passed like an automaton through this monotonous routine of daily life. And yet there seemed to be one solace for his loneliness-one bright star in the heaven of his existence. He loved to look upon the fair form of his foster-sister Kate, follow her footsteps through house and field with a feeling akin to that of the faithful watch-dog. He would listen to her voice as if charmed by it, speak to and answer her with that meekness no other living being could have induced him to exhibit. She was to him a kind of God; to serve her the highth of his religion, to look at her and hear her voice the fullest extent of his humble life's ambition. His untutored love for her bordered on the very conflnes of idolatry-his religion lost itself in fanaticism. Kate had seen, already when she was a child, that simply the sight of her pleased the unfortunate boy, and in her natural sweetness of manner and fullness of heart suffered him to understand, in a thousand little ways, that she pitied and loved him in return. 
               And in this relation they stood to one another on the evening we introduce them to our readers. It had been a hard day's work for both of them, for the heat had been very great, and both had worked in the field since sun-up. The supper was over, and the foundling was resting his weary limbs under some old tree in the yard, when Kate came to him and commenced, in a sort of undertone, the brief colloquy with which this chapter opens. 
               Her decisive appeal to him that he should go with her at once to the city-he who had never been in the city in his life, never away from the farm farther than the school-house-made Esau raise his beautiful blue eyes (the only redeeming feature he had) at her calm yet troubled face in wonderment. With a rudeness excusable only in him, he gazed at her for some time, then rose from the grass plat, and his long, lank and uncouth figure slowly moved away in the direction of the barn. Tired as he felt, he was about to get his coat and hat and go wherever she would send him. He had detected something in her white face that strengthened a certain suspicion he had harbored for some time in his mind; and for a moment, perhaps unconscious of it himself, his brow was knitted into a terrible frown, and his hands, or rather the shapeless hairy paws that served him as hands, closed up convulsively and tightened into a fist. When he returned shortly after, he discovered Kate already waiting for him. She had hurriedly put on a dark gown and sack, tied a white handkerchief over her head, took a small basket of flowers in her right hand, and told her mother that she was going to some neighbor's, taking Esau along with her. Thus the two, without speaking another word, passed through the gate, passed through fields and meadows, little dreaming, as they mutely watched the setting sun in the blushing West, the disastrous result of their pedestrian journey to the city. 
             
             
               CHAPTER II. 
               THE INTERVIEW. 
               THE sun was still two hours high when handsome Kate and her foster-brother came in sight of Cincinnati. The smoke and dust hovering over the city first attracted the lad's attention. From the time they had left the farm-house together not a word had been interchanged between them; but now, as he beheld the dark and stationary dust-cloud ahead, while right above and behind him the sky was blue and clear, he wondered, at what seemed to him a phenomenon, and, standing still for a moment, muttered to himself: 
               "What's this?" 
               "There lies the city-there, beneath that smoke and dust," replied the young woman, as if his words had been addressed to her, and then she relapsed once more into silence. 
               Fifteen minutes more brought them to Mill-creek bridge. Here Kate paused and turned, for the second time, toward her foster-brother. 
               "Esau," she said, her confiding brown eyes gazing into those that adored her, "this is as far as I want you to go with me. Keep yourself somewhere about here until I return. I shall not be gone very long." 
               Having said this much, she took from his arm the basket of flowers he had carried for her part of the way, and, without giving him another look or saying another word, passed over the bridge and directed her steps toward the Brighton House. Arrived there, she took a Seventh and Freeman street car, and rode into the city as far as Ninth and Plum, where she alighted. Though residing in the country, it could be seen by her subsequent movement that she was no stranger in the metropolis. Now she passed the city-park, the cathedral, and crossed Eighth-street; but, on arriving at the corner of Seventh, she stopped for a moment, placed her hand across her forehead, and exhibited in her looks, manner and walk, a kind of indecision-a wavering of purpose. Nevertheless she went on, and stopped no more until she had come opposite one of the finest residences that graces that fashionable quarter of the city. An artistically laid-out garden, abounding in weeping-willows, inter-spered with fig-trees and oleanders amid the most luxuriant shrubberies, effectually concealed from the rude gaze of the passers-by the architectural magnificence of the dwelling that stood, like a fairy palace, behind two high elms that were planted in the center of this romantic spot. Kate's eyes wandered over this grand spectacle, and her heart misgave her. But still she went in, the gate closed behind her, and she found herself, before she had proceeded twenty steps up the gravel path, face to face with a lady, whose unexpected appearance, and whose extraordinary beauty, before which, as she thought, all womankind would pale, arrested her wavering steps and stupefied her. For a brief pause the two maidens-the rustic beauty and the city belle-stood opposite one another in mute and unfeigned admiration. Kate was still gazing at that tall and graceful figure-gazing at that beautiful pale face-gazing into those large gray eyes, in whose clear and liquid depths romance, poetry, and passion seemed to have their birth-gazing at that rich blue-black hair as it shone above that broad smooth forehead, when a voice from behind the shrubbery called her to herself and sent the life-blood back to her cheeks. 
               "Pardon me," she said, almost afraid to hear herself speak; "is that not the voice of Clifford Vane, and are you not Miss Marah Koltinzky?" 
               At that moment, and before the lady addressed had time to reply, a gentleman, clothed in the full fashion of the day, had emerged from behind a row of oleanders, and was frowningly looking down upon the maidens, who still faced one another on the gravel path, where the dark shadow of his figure, like the presence of some coming great evil, sent a cold chill to the rustic beauty's heart. 
               "Yes," was the reply, "the voice you heard was Clifford Vane's, and I am Marah Koltinzky. Why? Do you know Mr. Vane?" 
               Kate was in the act of replying when Clifford Vane himself approached, and without deigning her more than a passing glance and a slight bow-such as he would have given to any stranger: one he had thought his inferior-passed over to the other maiden, said, "Marah, your father wants you," then took her arm and led her slowly away. 
               Honest Allen's daughter looked after them, as they walked along the graveled path, until they had lost themselves behind those stately elms before the house, then turned her disconsolate face toward the gate, and, trembling from head to foot and sick at heart, sought her way back to the street. 
               Thoroughly lost in reflection, and with her gentle brown eyes cast to the earth, she walked away unhappier and more hopeless than she had ever been before. She had seen him for the last time-had seen her too-she would go home now and die. 
               A faint sigh passed through her lips-she turned round once more toward the scene she had just left-then moved away to meet her foster-brother at the bridge. 
               She could scarcely have gone twenty paces before a little urchin caught up with her, and, after insolently staring at her deathly face as if to satisfy himself of being the person he had been sent after, handed her a note, then, without waiting to see what she would do with it, disappeared among the crowd. 
               At first poor Kate stood still, scarcely knowing that she stood still. A moment later she passed her hand across her feverish temples, and, as she did so, recollected herself and moved on. Now her eyes fell upon the super-scription of the note, which was no sooner done than the blood rushed once more to her cheeks, and her hands gave signs of agitation as she opened the sheet and read: 
               
                   
                      
                         
                           "DEAR KATE: Engage a room at the Brighton House. I will meet you there almost immediately. 
                           
                              "Yours, 
                              C."
                            
                         
                      
                  
                
               What more could she ask of him? Had he not written to her-yes, here were the very words his own hand had indited-that he would meet her "almost immediately?" What impatience! "Almost immediately" he wrote Surely she must have judged him too harshly. Yes, he was still her own dear Clifford-would prove himself so, too-and chide her, as she fully deserved, for having harbored such-O, such terrible suspicions. Would he wish to see and meet her at the Brighton House, or anywhere else, if he had tired of her and if it were not for the purpose of renewing his pledge and of confessing once more his undying love for her? 
               She was angry at herself for the least unkind thought her mind had harbored at times, when doubts as to his fidelity to his trust would shake her faith. He had not been to see her for weeks, and had not written to her. But what of that? Had men nothing else to do but visit their sweethearts or write to them? Yes, he would surely explain all, and she would find out what a silly goose she had been. 
               Something like the faintest shade of a blush overspread her pale cheeks, as she, with a lighter heart and step, once more entered the car, this time to convey her to the place of rendezvous. 
               When she arrived at her destination she found Clifford Vane waiting for her. She had espied him long before she left her seat in the car, and her young heart fairly leaped in her bosom as she thought of his eagerness to meet her. "He must love me dearly," she reasoned, in her utter simplicity, "or he would not be here already waiting for me." 
               She ran toward him with undisguised joy. Her loving heart sent the crimson blood to her cheeks and temples, and, while her rosy mouth showed her laughing teeth, her gentle brown eyes brightened in their orbits, and spoke a welcome-so hearty, so earnest, so loving-no words of hers could have conveyed so well. 
               "I'm so glad." 
               'Twas all she could say, and more than there was any need for her to say, for Clifford Vane had eyes, and saw, in one single glance, that honest Allen's daughter, notwithstanding his base desertion of her, had still his image in her heart and his promises in her mind. 
               Artlessly and full of confidence, she grasped his broad hands, and fondly looked up into his handsome, manly face. 
               A pause of painful disappointment. 
               That calm, stern face did not reflect her own joy. It was thoughtful and smileless, and those blue eyes, that had been wont to laugh at her, could not, or would not, now meet the gaze of her own. She was not slow to detect it-her woman's quick perception told her that all was not right-that this meeting would destroy her happiness. The color fled from her cheeks, the smile from her lips, her eyes grew dim, and she trembled like a wounded ewe overtaken with the chill of death. 
               She retired a step, her ice-cold hands glided from his and dropped, like a dead weight, down by her sides. 
               "You are angry at me," she lisped, in a faltering voice. 
               She had lowered her eyes, and the tall and graceful beauty seemed crushed under the weight of her misery. After an embarrassing pause, Clifford Vane offered her his arm and said: 
               "This is no place for, discussion; let us go inside." 
               She did not reply; but leaning on his arm, without which support she would scarcely have been able to ascend the several stairs that led to the entrance, she at last reached the room Mr. Vane had, on arriving at the Brighton, engaged for this interview. 
               He conducted her to a seat by the window, from which she could still see in the twilight her foster-brother watching for her on the bridge, then took a chair himself, and sat down by the table a short distance from her. 
               "Kate, what brought you to town this evening, and that, too, after I had instructed you-begged you-not to leave the farm until you had seen me again?" were the first words of greeting Mr. Clifford Vane had for Allen Strong's daughter. 
               Scarcely had the last word escaped his lips, before the unhappy girl, beautiful in her tears as in her smiles, lay at his feet, as she sobbed, in the fullness of her grieved soul: 
               "It is you who have brought me here Clifford. You would not come to see me, and I couldn't bear your absence any longer. I knew that I disobeyed you-but forgive me, Clifford, forgive me." 
               He looked down upon the wretched woman at his feet for something like a minute before he spoke, and was evidently preparing himself for this scene which he intended should be the last in this domestic drama. Whatever his thoughts were, he was no less skilled in hiding them than in controlling his feelings, for his face was calm and free of the least sign of perturbation. Unmoved, he listened to her sobs that now and then broke the ominous stillness pervading that poorly-lighted room. 
               "I am not fond of scenes," he said at last, in a low, quiet sort of tone. "If you desire to speak to me, or if you wish me to speak to you, you have to be quiet, Kate, and get up from the floor and quit making a fool of yourself." 
               
                  Quit making a fool of herself! Poor, poor Kate! And is this the reward for her blind and undivided love she had felt, and was still feeling, for this man? And is this the man who had wooed and won her heart and called her "darling" as she sat upon his knee with her waist encircled by his arm, suffering him to suck the honey from her undefiled lips? And is this the man for whom, to save him a solitary pang, she would have died without a murmur? 
               
                  Quit making a fool of herself! Like an arrow shot by a treacherous hand, these words pierced the tenderest spot in her heart. What more need she hear now to dispel the fond illusion in which she had breathed and lived? A fainting fit came over her. She had discovered covered at this moment that she had lost what she prized higher than aught else on earth-Clifford Vane's love. She felt as if an insurmountable barrier had at once loomed between herself and the man she had fanatically worshiped. 
               "Kate, rise to your feet and sit down by my side." 
               The invisible chord that had bound her heart to his had snapped asunder. The feelings of being a stranger to the man at whose feet she lay, gradually took possession of her soul, and reminded her of the unbecomingness of remaining in that position. Slowly she rose from the floor, and, with her head bending over her bosom and averted as she supposed, from his gaze, tottered rather than walked to the nearest chair to rest upon. The burning tears were still trickling down her cheeks, but, as they were hid by her small hands, Mr. Vane could only hear the bitter sobs she unsuccessfully attempted to stifle. He watched her calmly for a moment, then said: 
               "As soon as you evince a disposition to be quiet, Kate, I will tell you why I have not been to see you for some time. But if you persist in exhibiting a disposition to be silly, and continue to shed a shower of causeless tears, it will be only yourself you will have to blame if I should find my patience too strongly taxed to endure your conduct much longer. I want you to be yourself, Kate-sensible as I have always found you-and calmly listen to me." 
               Honest Aller's daughter removed her hands, and bashfully, as if she had been guilty of some wrong, raised her tear-filled eyes to the handsome face of Clifford Vane. She had grown calm in the last few minutes, and now awaited her doom in silence. 
               "You have done wrong, Kate," he said, at last, his voice as dispassionate as if he were about to relate the most unimportant event imaginable, "to come to the city in search of me, after I had distinctly requested you not to do so." He waited for a moment, in order to give her a chance to comment upon what he had said; but finding her disinclined to reply, he proceeded in the same easy strain as he had begun: "It is not pleasant for any man to be followed and hunted down by a girl-however much he may think of her-simply because he had found pleasure in her company, and may have talked sweet nonsense to her to beguile the hours that otherwise might have hung heavily upon him. You should have known this, Kate-you are of those years when you should be able to distinguish man's pastime pleasures from true courtship, and take his professions of love for what they're worth, and for nothing more. You are a sweet and lovely girl, Kate-I have often told you so-and therefore I took delight in being in your society, but your own sense of propriety should have warned you from following me to the city-from carrying our gallantries beyond the limits of discretion. Do you understand me, Kate?" 
               Though simple as a child, honest Allen's daughter understood too well the meaning of those words. They had fallen upon her ears like so many death-knells, and penetrated to her breaking heart only to make it still more sore. A girl less unsophisticated, and who had had more experience in this world-a girl who had come more in contact with the scene-shifters of this sad life's panorama, and had learned the selfishness that prompts the world to action-would have detected in Mr. Vane's words a meanness, a corruptness, a brazen-faced confession of guilt that would have moved her to steel her heart against the villain, loathe him as she would have done a viper, and seek revenge, a speedy revenge, for the wanton destruction of her peace and happiness. But poor Kate was too pure and guileless to construe his words-the words of the man who had been her god-to any thing that could possibly emanate from aught but the purest motives. It is true, she had understood every word he had said to her, but she had understood them to be free from expressing any thing more than an honest explanation-however much it stung her to the heart to be thus enlightened-of the position Mr. Clifford Vane and Miss Kate Strong respectively held toward one another. She knew now his heart was not hers-was never hers. It was this alone that grieved her. She could not see that he had trifled with her affection-that he had insidiously and stealthily insinuated himself in her pure love simply to cool his passions, and in the whilome possession of her charms to feast until he reeled in a drunkenness of ecstasy. It is true he had called her by every name that a prodigal tongue, in moments of happy dalliance, can invent. How many times had she heard him confess his undying love for her-called her his own-for ever his own? How often had he whispered into her ears, after sucking the honey from her lips, that she should become his wife? But in her simplicity she acceded to him that right, and only blamed herself for having accepted as divine truths such phrases and professions of love as Clifford Vane had simply made to pass a pleasant hour in her company-perhaps to flatter her vanity a little-but not to deceive her, no, never. How could he know that she would be silly enough to take his galanterie for more than galanterie? 
                  He was certainly not to blame; he was innocent of the least intention of deception. But what matters it how we come to enjoy a certain wealth? Once enjoyed, once tasted of the luxury, and we are loath to relinquish it again. So it was with Kate Strong. She had loved this man-rightly or wrongly, it mattered little now-she had sat upon his knee, had twined her arms around his neck, had felt his fervent kisses draw her burning soul in ecstacy to her lips, she had yielded, drunken with an indescribable scribable lusciousness, to his caresses-had felt herself transported to heaven in his dalliance, had felt the blood run madly through her veins and made each touch of his-so wildly pleasure-creative-almost too sweet to endure. And now she was to resign all this, return to her every day life and forget all. His words had plainly told her that she had no claims on him, and as she felt the truth of this she prayed to heaven that an abyss would open before her feet and swallow her at once. She wept no longer, the tears had ceased to flow to her eyes, and she sat there, pale like an apparition, voiceless and deprived of motion. Seeing that he had not spoken in vain-that his words had had the desired effect, Mr. Clifford Vane, after a pause of a moment or two, said once more: "Do you understand me, Kate?" 
               She had been looking into his calm, handsome face until now; had watched every word as it took shape upon his lips and fell like so many cold steels upon her heart. His voice had been still powerful enough to charm her, but now as the last sound of it died away in the stilly air, and she was expected to answer him whether she understood him or no, a feeling of a childlike timidity took possession of her, and as she whispered "Yes, sir," bowed her head in humility and averted the gaze she no longer possessed the boldness to encounter. 
               "I am pleased that these few words, dear Katie," he said now, rising and crossing over to where she sat, "have been able to relieve you from further entertaining erroneous impressions. You are a lovely girl and I should not willingly wrong you. I shall, when time permits it, come now and then to see you. You shall ever find me your affectionate Clifford-changed in nothing, and always willing and ready to prove to you how much I think of you. But now, my Katie, sorry as I am, business which can not be postponed warns me to value each escaping moment. So look up, my Katie, and let me have a farewell kiss." 
               He took hold of her arm and helped her to rise. With downcast face she stood, a very picture of mute despair, by his side. The reflection of the light fell fully upon her form, and its outlines graceful as those of the Goddess of love, awakened in Mr. Vane's bosom, as his eyes ravishingly rested upon them, a desire for a last enjoyment of all those pleasures his corrupt heart had ever craved, and she in her innocence and simplicity had only been too happy and willing to grant. 
               "Look up, my dearest," he lisped, and a moment later, while his arm was once more twined around her waist and his voice was sweetly ringing in her ears, she felt how utterly weak she was, and while her conscience smote her for the act, lifted up her face to receive the betrayer's fiery kiss upon her burning lips. 
               O, if she could only have died thus, leaning on his strong arm, her eyes looking into his, and feeling the soft pressure of his hand-who would have been happier than she? But fate willed it otherwise. Kate Strong was not to die in this last embrace; another doom-less enviable-awaited her. 
               Her heart was still panting and wildly beating against his own, when something that he was whispering in her ears caused her to blush and look up into his eyes as if to search for its meaning in their depth. With a power of fascination possessed only by a few, he returned that gaze, and a minute later a still deeper blush mantled her cheeks, her eyes became more brilliant, her mind more confused, and she exclaimed, with a recklessness the moment had inspired her with, "Clifford! Clifford!-My God! why am I tempted thus?" 
             
             
               CHAPTER III. 
               HOMEWARD BOUND. 
               IT was a moonlit night, and the stars were already out, when Kate Strong joined her foster-brother on the bridge. She was paler than usual, and, as the ghastly light of the moon fell upon her face, Esau, who was now by her side and furtively glanced at her features, felt a pain shoot through his heart as he detected signs of tears on her cheeks and a dull, strange-seeming expression in her eyes. She said nothing to him, and he respected her silence. Not a word was interchanged between them. They turned their faces to the West, and, side by side, plodded slowly their way homeward. Having walked nearly the distance of a mile, Esau was startled by a sad, long-drawn sigh. Bad as he had felt, this sigh made him feel still worse, and some minutes elapsed before he raised his head to the face of the only being he had ever loved. He found her in tears-his own Kate in tears! One glance sufficed to change his whole nature. His large blue eyes were no longer handsome. They had grown bright as that of the snake, and mischief sparkled on their glossy surface. His misshapen hands seemed to have grown longer, his fingers thinner, and the nails sharper and more pointed, as if prepared to spring upon an enemy still in ambush, but, as soon as seen, to be confronted by death's messenger. He began to walk with more firmness, and in his movements showed an elasticity of body none ever supposed those drawling limbs capable of possessing. But he spoke not; he only gazed on her, as he walked a pace or two behind her but thought the more. His heart was heavy with grief, and felt like bursting. But still he walked on behind his lovely Kate with a feeling that could not have been more profoundly sorrowful had he followed her corpse to the grave. 
               He stops. He does not move another step. In the fullness of her soul's bitterness, honest Allen's lovely daughter had succumbed to the heavy sorrow she had vainly striven to conquer, and had begun to sob aloud. An exclamation, sounding more like a fiendish yell than a human voice, escaped from his lips, and woke the stillness that surrounded them. Those sobs had aroused a wild demon in his soul, and he was no longer master over himself. 
               There was a heap of rocks on one side of the road. Kate Strong could walk no further-her strength was exhausted-her limbs were too weak to obey her will-so the poor girl sat down on those rocks, covered her face with her hands, sobbed louder and louder, until, at last, she was convulsed with hysterics. 
               "Kate!" 
               'Twas all that Esau could utter. In the great agony of his soul, it would have choked him to breathe another syllable. But in that single word he had thrown the whole great weight of misery he felt at the sight of his sister's. He had dropped upon his knees by her side on the rock-pile, and his large blue eyes filled with tears and looked with tenderness and despair at those little hands that so cruelly hid from him her face. Too strongly moved to resist his own desires, he took courage from despair and removed those hands, and, as he did so, the poor girl threw her arms around his neck, and cried, "O Esau! Esau! I wish to God I could die!" 
               "What's the matter?" 
               The only answer she vouchsafed him was another shower of tears. 
               "Who wronged you?" 
               Still no answer. 
               "Was it Clifford Vane?" 
               Scarcely had he pronounced the first syllable of that name before Kate Strong, burying her face still deeper in her arms, cried out: 
               "For mercy's sake, do not breathe that name. I can not-dare not listen to it now;" and her hysterics choked within her throat what else she might have confessed. 
               A quick, malicious gleam shot from Esau's eyes. The tears dried on his cheeks, and once more an ugly frown showed, like a deep furrow, upon his brow. He spoke not another word, but kept upon his knees and sulkily listened to poor Katie's moans. 
               At last she, too, seemed to have become more quiet herself, and so requested her faithful foster-brother to rise to his feet. A moment later found them again, side by side, slowly walking homeward. A strict silence was observed between them. Esau seemed to watch and count each pebble on the road, while Kate Strong absently looked ahead, her face paler than the moon solemnly hanging in the dark, mysterious vault above her. 
               When they reached home, all the inmates of that peaceful farm-house had retired to rest. On the threshold Kate turned around and waited till her foster-brother came near enough to face him. She was calm and thoughtful. Not a sign of her inward struggle could be traced in those quiet features of that pale face. Esau was somewhat perplexed at this sudden to him unaccountable change. It puzzled him. That very outward calm that might have reassured others, failed to have the same effect on him. It made him feel sick at heart, as if some great evil was looming over them. At that moment it grew dark around them. He looked up and discovered a small black cloud gradually spreading itself over the round moon. He had seen clouds hide the moon often, but it had never effected him as it did now. Once more he looked earthward. An owl perched on some dead limb sent forth a wild scream from the woods beyond. Esau was not superstitious, nevertheless the blood curdled in his veins as that ominous, woe-begone sound broke the holy stillness that enshrouded all around them. 
               "Esau!" 
               The voice startled him. A hand was laid on his arm. It was Kate's. He turned his eyes upon her. Her face still wore that calm, peaceful, thoughtful expression. She moved still closer toward him, and he could distinctly hear her gentle breath. 
               "You have always loved me," she said, then stopped abruptly. 
               Esau said nothing in return, nor was it necessary. Kate understood his silence, so she proceeded: 
               "Yes, you have always loved me; I can trust in you, and you will do what I'll tell you. Won't you, Esau?" 
               He pressed her hand, and inarticulately muttered something before him. Kate was about to speak again, but was interrupted. For the second time the owl sent forth a wild scream. Both listened to it, and kept silent until all was still again. "Esau," she continued, after a short pause, "I want you to keep our journey to the city a secret for ever. I do not wish that either father or mother, or any body else, should ever hear of it. Do you promise to keep it a secret?" 
               "Yes." 
               "I believe you, Esau," she continued, still calmly. "But will you do more than that if I should ask it?" 
               "Ask any thing, Kate, I'll do it." 
               "I know you will, Esau. I'm not mistaken in your feelings, no. I have loved Mr. Vane-" 
               "Damn him!" growled Esau. 
               "O, don't curse him, brother, for I love him so;" and poor, unhappy Kate threw her arms around her foster-brother's neck and shed the bitterest tears she had ever shed in all her life. 
               Long and silently they stood thus-their sad reflections only interrupted by the monotonous tick-tick of the old family-clock within. At last poor Kate succeeded to control her feelings; she raised her head, stifled her sobs, and continued: 
               "Yes, Esau, I loved this Mr. Vane, but he won't have me"-here she began to weep again-"no, he won't have me-no, no, he won't. Take these letters to him-do, Esau-O, do. I mustn't keep them any more-I mustn't, Esau. O, I'm so unhappy." 
               As she made this confession, tears flowed freely down her pale, anguish-distorted cheeks Esau was moved by them. He would sooner have suffered any amount of pain than to have seen Kate Allen-the only being for whom he had ever felt any sympathy-weep tears of sorrow. Lonely and lost as he had been in this world to him without interest, beauty or love, not until this evening he knew what it was to be miserable. His natural sulkiness had given way to a feeling of heart-rending sadness. Kate-the gentle, good-natured Kate-was unhappy and shed tears of sorrow. If by tearing out his own heart, or by bleeding himself to death, he could have restored her to happiness, could have made her smile again, he would have blessed fate for exacting no greater sacrifice of him. But he knew that the sacrifice of his uncomely self could not brighten the poor heart Clifford Vane had saddened, and therefore, as her head was resting on his shoulder, he mixed his tears with hers, and felt the first deep grief his heart had ever known. 
               But as the wildest storm exhausts its force at last, so the fountain of her tears grew dry, and Kate, having grown strong in sorrow, raised her head and freed her arms from around Esau's neck. 
               "Here are the letters," she said. "Give them to Mr. Vane, and tell him that I love him still, always shall love him. Tell him also"-here she gave signs of being too deeply moved to keep up her calmness-"that I forgive him, yes, forgive him from my heart. Will you do all this for me, Esau?" 
               It was sometime before he answered. He seemed to struggle with himself. Had she bid him to tear Clifford Vane into pieces, why-he would have done it, and felt happy by it. But to carry to him that message-that she forgave him and still loved him-it was a sacrifice he thought himself scarcely capable of making, even for his own dear Kate. As he stood there, absorbed in reflection, his eyes turned groundward, his foster-sister, having interpreted his silence to herself, approached him closer, and, taking hold of his hand, suavely whispered to him: "Clifford is not to blame, Esau. It is I who am to blame, not he. I had no right to love so great a man. He could not tell that I would be so silly as to believe that he loves me. He is good, Esau, and don't know how much I am suffering. And I don't want him to know it-no, for I'm sure it would make him feel bad, and I wouldn't have him feel as I do-no, not for all the world." 
               She bent her head over her breast to conceal from her foster-brother the tears that were rising to her eyes. All around them was as still as the grave. Nothing could be heard save that regular tick-tick of the clock. They listened to it for some time in silence. Again a cloud passed over the moon, and covered all about them with a deeper darkness. Esau raised his head to look at his sister's face-it was too dark to make out its expression. Just then the clock was about to strike the hour, but after the first stroke of the hammer it stopped running altogether. Esau heaved a heavy sigh. It was answered from the top of a naked, leafless tree standing in the farm-yard. The owl, perched upon one of its bare wings, had again sent forth a piercing, dismal scream. Kate looked up. The cloud had sailed on, and the full moon was once more shedding a pale light over them. 
               "Esau!" 
               Before he could answer, the door to the old farmer's bed-room opened, and old Allen himself stood fully dressed before them. Kate was the first to see him. She left Esau's side and approached old Allen. "Is it late, father?" she said. 
               "It's past eleven, Kate," he replied. "I've come out to see where you stayed so long. Mother and I have been to bed for two hours and more, yet somehow I couldn't sleep tonight. I can't tell the reason, but I don't feel as I should. But what is the matter with you, Kate?" he added, a moment later. "You look as white as a sheet!" 
               "Do I?" And poor Kate burst out in a laugh. "Come, let's go in; I'm tired. Where is Esau? O, here he is I almost would have forgotten to say good-night to him. I'll be in in a minute, 'pa." 
               She smiled on her father, then turned round to step across the porch to where Esau stood. She took hold of his hand, pressed it fondly, then said, while her gentle brown eyes rested upon his face: 
               "I have been a willful girl, and minded little what I said at times. I know I have often been rude to you, and spoke harsh words that must have wounded your feelings. But I loved you nevertheless, brother. Will you-can you forgive me now?" 
               She had said all this with a tenderness that went deep to his heart. He was too strongly moved to have aught to say. He had been wronged a thousand times by others, but who had ever thought it worth while to ask him for forgiveness? And here was Kate now-the only person who had never wronged him-in fact, the only person whose love he had ever known-asking him to forgive her. He felt like throwing himself before her feet and kiss the very ground she walked on. He sought her brown eyes, and fancied to see tears in them. It was enough to unsettle him. He could control himself no longer. He broke out in a violent fit of blubbering. But he was determined that none inside of the house should hear it. Before a sound could escape, his teeth were biting in the handkerchief he had stuffed between his lips. Kate looked at him a second, then kissed him. A moment later he was alone. Kate had followed her father into the house. 
               It was some time before Esau stirred from the spot upon which his foster-sister had left him. He raised his head, then heaved a long-drawn sigh. Muttering something to himself, he turned down the steps, crossed to the rear of the house, and sought his own chamber, which was on the upper floor and gave him a splendid view of the country for miles around. 
               He did not light a candle. He found his way to a chair in the darkness. He placed his head upon his arm, resting on his knee, and then closed his eyelids. For more than an hour he sat in that recumbent position, gloomily brooding over what had transpired that night At last his thoughts grew more confused, and shortly after his breath became heavier for he had fallen asleep. But it was a restless sleep that he had. At irregular intervals he would groan, and sometimes shriek out aloud, as if troubled by ugly dreams. 
               He rose from his chair and glared wildly about the room. His eyes were bloodshot, and fright was written upon his brow. "Who is here?" he hissed, and, receiving no answer, he walked toward the window and looked out. It had grown much darker, and heavy clouds were marshaling themselves in battle-array. A storm was imminent and threatened to break out at any moment. Esau retired from the window and threw himself, dressed as he was, upon his bed. In a few minutes he was sound asleep. Again he breathed heavily, and again ugly dreams seemed to torment him. He groaned and moaned, threw himself from side to side, spoke unto himself and shrieked, but still the ugly dream would haunt him. Gradually he grew calmer, his breath came more regular, and apparently he slept a sound sleep. 
               In the meantime the storm had commenced in good earnest. Those dark clouds had at last come in collision, and were now deluging the earth. Thunder and lightning alternately enlivened the scene, and the wind began to howl as if all the incarcerated fiends had been let loose to make night hideous with their yells. 
               A thunder-clap, and the very foundation of the earth seemed to shake and tremble. Esau jumped from his bed and hastened to the window. It was as dark as dark could be. The rain-drops fell thick and fast upon the window-panes, and pattering struck the earth. He could as easily have peered through the wall itself as through this midnight darkness. 
               Another clap of thunder, and a mighty ocean seemed at once to empty itself upon the earth. Just then Esau fancied to hear a faint shriek. It frightened him-startled him. What could it mean? He trembled from head to foot, and thought his glance must penetrate the deep darkness that hid the outside so completely from him. 
               Another deep, long rumbling sound overhead and the clouds were rift asunder, and a blue forked-lightning passing through the fissure exposed to Esau's view something that unnerved his inner being and made his blood run chilly through his veins. In an instant all was darkness again. He turned from the window, and as he did so he fancied to see Kate, pale as death, standing before him. He called her by her name, but she would not answer him. He reached out his hand to grasp her, but lo! there was nothing but air to grasp. Now an unearthly fear brought drops of perspiration to his skin. He looked further on, and again that figure stood before him-Kate, his own dear Kate-beckoning him to follow her. Again he moved-she receding as he advanced-and once more he found the likeness dissolved in air. What could it mean? Was it an apparition? 
               By this time he had gained the door. It required but a moment to steal noiselessly down the stairs and out into the yard. The sight that he had seen through the window still haunted him. He sped, as fast as feet could carry him, toward a deep pond some two hundred yards distant from the farm-house. Out of breath, and drenched to the skin with rain that still poured down in torrents, he reached that pond. But all was dark around him and he could see nothing. He cried out aloud, full of despair, "Kate! Kate! where are you, Kate?" 
               Kate did not answer him, but another flash of lightning that rent the clouds at that moment showed him the figure of a woman floating on the surface of the turbid, stagnant water. In a twinkling of an eye he had swam toward it and was bringing it to the shore. By the aid of another flash of lightning he recognized the bloated, cold, and inanimate corpse in his arms to be the sad remains of his own dear Kate. 
               He burst out in a painful shriek. He had been robbed of everything that had made life endurable to him. His own dear Kate dead at his feet! It made him almost mad. He threw himself upon her body and howled dismally. He kissed and embraced her, then lifted her upon his arm and carried her home. Long before he reached the house, old Allen had left his bed, and wondered at the strange sounds the wind was carrying on its wings. 
               "Something is coming up the yard," he said to his wife, who was sitting in her bed, and listening to the pattering rain. "I'll go and see," he added, then passed through the door just as Esau laid the corpse upon the porch, and then, groaning, threw himself by its side. 
             
             
               CHAPTER IV. 
               HOPES AND FEARS. 
               AFTER Mr. Clifford Vane had led Miss Marah Koltinzky a short distance up the path toward her father's mansion behind the elms, he turned upon her a smiling face and said: 
               "It is all right, Marah. I have had a talk with him-" 
               She stopped in her walk and raised her face to his. He could feel her hand tremble on his arm. 
               "Yes," he continued, "I have had a talk with him, and discovered that all your fears and apprehensions were without the least foundation. Your father patiently listened to all I had to say, and seemed perfectly satisfied with my propositions and promises." 
               "You don't mean to tell me," replied Marah, with flushed cheeks and sparkling eyes, "that father consented to our union?" 
               "Yes-that is if I interpret the meaning of his words correctly, and I think I do." 
               "Good God, how my heart beats; come, let's walk on-let's go-perhaps I shall feel better. You say," she continued, "he consented at once? Had no remarks to make? No objections to raise? I didn't think it would pass off so easy-indeed, I didn't." 
               "But it did, my dear Marah, and the consummation of our dearest wishes can now be realized," replied Mr. Vane, fondly pressing the jeweled hand still trembling from the effects of the news he had so abruptly imparted to her. "Are you not happy that it is over-no longer any fears, no longer any apprehensions, but that all terminated just as we prayed it should, and that without a single unpleasantness on either side? I tell you, Marah, my good, sweet, beloved Marah, I am the happiest man alive." 
               He drew her affectionately to his breast and, gracefully stooping over her, sealed his love with a kiss. 
               "And what did father say, or rather what did you say, Clifford?" she inquired, anxiously looking up into his face. 
               "How can I tell you all?" he replied. "You can imagine how I must have felt when I sought his presence on this occasion. I have forgotten nearly all that has been said between us, but as much as I can remember I shall tell you to-night, after you have seen your father yourself." 
               Miss Marah Koltinzky turned as pale as death. 
               "Why-does he want to see me in particular?" she whispered with a palpable show of uneasiness. "Hasn't he told you what he wants of me? Do tell me-O, do, do-don't keep me in this terrible suspense so long: what does he want of me?" 
               "My dear, what should he want of you?" Mr. Clifford Vane replied, smiling. "He wishes to hear you express your own view before he can give me a definite answer." 
               Miss Koltinzky once more stopped in her walk, and shaking her head, expressive of doubt, heaved a sigh of anxiety. 
               "Then he has not yet given his consent, after all?" 
               "How strangely you do speak, my dearest," Mr. Vane replied. "Did you expect your father to say 'yes' before he had consulted your own wishes? What more hopeful answer could he have given to my request for your hand than what he gave? 'I shall not stand in the light of my daughter's happiness,' he said. 'If Marah has set her heart upon you, and wishes to unite her fate with yours, Mr. Vane; if she has coolly considered the step she is about to take and the responsibilities attached thereto, and is willing, ay, and ready to meet them; if she has convinced herself of your worth, and that your love is likely to remain firm and follow her through all vicissitudes of fortune; if she has done all this, Mr. Vane, and has done it well, her father will pray for her happiness. But before I can give you my consent,' your father continued, 'I must speak to my daughter, and learn from her the true state of her heart and wishes.' I told him then that I should send you to him at once, and for that purpose I have come in search of you, my dearest." 
               "And has he not inquired into your prospects for the future? What you intended to do after we were married? How you expected to shape your future course?" 
               "No, dearest, no," replied Mr. Vane, smiling. "Nor was it necessary." 
               "Father is so exceedingly practical, that I am somewhat surprised at so strange an omission of so palpable a paternal duty." 
               "You need not be surprised at this, my love. Your father is no less polite than practical. Why should he have asked me as to my expectations and prospects, before he had seen and spoken to you? But you need to entertain not the slightest apprehension on that account, for I forestalled all such questions, and openly-as it was meet I should-I told him the plan that we had devised to adopt for the furtherance of our future welfare, should we be so blessed as to obtain his consent to our marriage. Your father, dearest, listened to my remarks with a show of the profoundest respect, and, though he refrained from indulging in any comments-I presume he desires, above all, to hear you first-the attention that he was pleased to grant me, augers well and leads me to hope that, through your influence over him, your wishes will be repeated by his lips." 
               "I trust, dear Clifford, it will be so," Miss Koltinzky replied, thoughtfully counting the small white pebbles under her feet. "But I am heavy of heart, and some strange fear oppresses me.-Has he, or have you, not mentioned my mother's name?" 
               "Not your father but I did. I told him that I should like to speak to your mother, and beg her to accept me as her son." 
               "And what was his answer, Clifford?" 
               "Marah, his answer was, as all his answers are, brief, well-considered, and to the point. 'My wife loves her daughter,' he said, 'and will bless what blesses her.'" 
               A tear rose to Miss Koltinzky's eye, and an expression of tenderness softened those handsome gray orbs now raised to her lover's face, as she exclaimed, with some enthusiasm that tinged her oval cheeks: 
               "Just like my father-his words are noble as his life. O, Clifford, Clifford, I would not wound his feelings for all that makes life sweet to me. I shall at once go to him, throw myself at his feet, and ask his blessing. He will listen to me, and when I tell him that you have won my heart, that without you his Marah would droop and die, my father will bless his only child and daughter, and give her peace and happiness." 
               Mr. Vane pressed her to his heart once more, and, as he watched her animated features assume a glow of inspiration, he involuntarily thought of Kate Strong when she, like Marah now, had laid her head as confidingly on his bosom and as affectionately looked into his eyes. 
               "I shall leave you now, dearest," he said, caressing her tenderly. "Your father I know is waiting for you. Go to him at once and hear what he has to say. Should he raise objections-Marah! Marah! overcome them-beg upon your knees for his permission, for without you Clifford Vane would sooner be dead than alive. But I apprehend no danger. I have spoken to him, and surely I can not have been deceived in his good will toward me. But should he raise objections, on account of a difference in our faith, or owing to other circumstances of which he may apprise you, will you still remain true to me, as I would remain to you, and leave house and home, father and mother, to follow the man who would die for you, to wherever his destiny would call him?" 
               He was still holding her to his breast, and her eyes were still turned toward his handsome, manly face. She could hear his heart beat against her own, and feel, with a strange sensation of pleasure that thrilled her to the soul, the strong and sinewy arm that firmly twined itself around her slender waist. "I will never-never-love another, Clifford, while I live," she lisped, a strange mellow light filling those large gray orbs. "Fear not for me. I have but one god, one faith, one religion, and their name is Clifford Vane." 
               She twined her arms around his neck, kissed him affectionately, then told him she was ready to see her father. 
               "I shall be back to-night," he said, releasing her, "and hear my doom. I apprehend no danger, for has not your father inspired me with hope? So let's pray for the best, and be prepared for the worst-but there can be no worst as long as you remain staunch and true to me." 
               "And this I'll be, come what may," she said, enthusiastically. 
               "Then I go without a fear, dearest," he replied, pressing her once more to his heart, before he left her presence, little dreaming of the tears that would bedim Marah's handsome eyes before an another hour had passed. 
             
             
               CHAPTER V. 
               FATHER AND DAUGHTER. 
               NOT in one of those spacious, handsomely-furnished drawing-rooms-of which there were quite a number-but in a cozy little chamber situated in the rear part of that splendid mansion, sat a small, wiry old man. His hair had already turned gray, and over his bushy, beeting eye-brows expanded a forehead crossed by many a deep wrinkle. He was restlessly moving in his arm-chair, and his small black eyes, which lay deep in their sockets and had a peculiar luster, were now and then turned toward the door as if in expectation of the arrival of some one who was expected to make his appearance. The expression of his lank and closely-shaven face was calm and thoughtful, but gradually it grew painfully severe as his eye-brows contracted almost into a frown. 
               Somebody was walking in the corridor-evidently toward this room. The old man recognized the light step at once, and in the twinkling of an eye the whole expression of his face was changed. It was no longer severe, but in its thoughtfulness one might have seen something sad-something that indicated a hidden grief and a heavy heart. 
               The door opened, and in stepped, with bowed head and embarrassed air, Marah. She felt the presence of her father, though she had not raised her eyes to meet his glance. The old man watched her a moment thoughtfully, then relieved her from that unpleasant position. 
               "Marah-" 
               She recognized that gentle voice, and in an instant she was upon her knees before her father, her sweet face blushingly raised to his. He placed a kiss upon her smooth brow, then told her to rise and sit down by him. 
               "Mr. Vane was here to see me, daughter," he said, after she had taken a seat by his side, "in order to gain my consent to your hand. Came he with your permission?" 
               He paused as if for an answer. For a moment it was as quiet as if the room had been entirely uninhabited, and pale Marah's heart beat so fast and loud that she imagined every space filled by its sound. She ventured to look up to meet her father's eyes as best she could, but he had considerately turned his face in a different direction, so she might speak with less embarrassment. 
               "O, father, pardon me," she lisped, her face as pale as death. "Mr. Vane has had my permission, and I should have come myself to ask for your and dear mother's blessing, had I had courage enough to apprise you of my love for Clifford." 
               Isaac Koltinzky did not reply at once. He rose from his arm-chair and began to pace the floor for some moments, now and then casting side-glances, as he passed, at his daughter, whose face was covered by a handkerchief. She was evidently in tears; and though he could hear her sobs, he did not tell her to cease weeping. Perhaps he felt like weeping himself, but, unlike Marah, could better control himself. At last he sat down, and, with a voice that betrayed emotions of grief, commenced to address her thus: 
               "I am now nine and sixty years of age, my daughter. My days, at most, can be but few. before I shall be gathered to my fathers and to my own children who have gone before me. Your mother, too, is much advanced in years, and in her wrinkled face and stooping figure vainly would one search for that great beauty that in her youth had charmed my sight and led me captive to her feet. We-your mother and I-have seen much trouble since then, daughter. Poverty and sickness had been our lot for many long, long years; and though we are now basking in the sunny rays of fickle fortune, there was a time when I had no bread to give your mother and the five little hungry mouths that looked to me for support; when I deemed myself blessed when I had found a night's shelter for them, and I myself could close my eyes to forget in sleep the knowledge of my daily cares. These were trying times, my daughter, and you, raised and nourished in the lap of luxury, can never know, by mere description, the mighty, almost unendurable struggles of your parents' lives. How, poverty stricken, they had left their home in Poland, and wandered from land to land to beg a livelihood among their more fortunate brethren of their own creed. Oppressed at home by an unjust government and a priest-ridden people, robbed of every freedom, down-trodden and debarred from justice before the laws' tribunal, harassed and persecuted, deprived of the means toward obtaining an honest livelihood, the Polish Jew, grown up in ignorance, was forced by the law of self-preservation to bid adieu to his native home-to bid adieu to kin and friend-and to go out into the world, of which he knew so little, and for which he was so poorly prepared, to improve his condition, but only to find himself treated little better than a Pariah. He had no trade, my daughter; but if he had had one, would not, in the countries whither his feet had led him, have been permitted to practice it. Thus circumstances forced him to live on his wits and ask of strangers food for himself, wife and little ones, to keep from starving. Thousands upon thousands have thus left their homes, wending their weary feet from place to place, from country to country, living upon the charity of others. Treated somewhat better than dogs even by our own coreligionists, the poor, homeless Pole, filthy as he frequently appeared and undoubtedly was, had still a heart within his bosom that felt the heavy rod of God, and shed such tears, which, but for a belief in a just Heaven, could not have been endured.-There was a time, my daughter, when all these afflictions were felt, in their extremest measure, by your mother and by your father.-Nay, do not cry, Marah, for those days and years, many and bitter as they were, have long since been numbered with the past. Yet I can remember when, with five hungry little mouths depending on me for sustenance, your mother and I left Poland for other lands; how sickness, aye, starvation, alternately embittered our lives; how one after another of your little brothers and sisters grew feeble, and eventually died for the want of proper care; how we mourned and suffered as we buried them, among feelingless strangers, whose sympathies were so hollow while our griefs were so deep. At last we came to England, without a farthing and without a friend. But there we were allowed to work, and work we did. My constitution was too much impaired from past sufferings to have furnished me with sufficient strength, however, to uphold me long. My health failed me, and soon it devolved upon your mother to toil for us both. With what patience she submitted to this new affliction-with what gentleness she attended to my wants-with what exertions she overcame all obstacles that confronted her-it requires a more eloquent tongue than mine to describe. After months and months of utter helplessness, I grew strong once more, and hand in hand we labored now to better our condition. Another year, and we had saved enough to pay our fare to America. What new trials awaited us here I fain would forget. How your mother became an invalid, and required such attention as I could not bestow; how prejudice and poverty combined made life even bitter here. You came to us then, Marah, as an angel from heaven. Your mother was once more happy, and your father, for the first time in his life, felt an ambition to become a man. Moving among the free, he soon imbibed the true spirit of freedom. He shunned no labor; and if there came hours of despondency, he looked upon your face and upon your loving mother's, and was strong again. From that time on your mother and I had but one wish, and that was Marah's health and happiness. Fortune now smiled on us, and we prospered in its sunlight. We saw the joy of our life flourish under our care. We watched it as we would a tender plant, lest something might befall it. It grew up a pride to us, and in our dreams we fancied to see the day when Marah would have a home of her own, in which her old and worn-out parents, honored and respected, might see their fondest hopes realized, and there in peace await their final end. That hope, Marah, in your selection of Clifford Vane as your husband, has at once been dispelled, and Isaac Koltinzky, nine and sixty years of age, has never known a sorrow so great as the one you have prepared for him." 
               "O, father, father," Marah shrieked in despair, throwing herself at his feet, and burying her face in her hands, "for God's sake do not speak thus to me. I would sooner die than to grieve you or mother." 
               "Rise, daughter, and listen t me,'' the old man said, and helped Marah back to her seat by his side. "I want you to open your heart to me, as I would mine to you, and tell me what your parents have done to have forfeited their only child's confidence?" 
               "Nothing, father, nothing." 
               "How came it to pass then that you encouraged the advances of Clifford Vane-the advances of a man not our faith-without first consulting those whose deep interest in your welfare would have warranted you a wholesome counsel, and which you never more required than when you were about to cast your lot with another and tear yourself loose from the protection that has never failed you from childhood's hour? So come, my daughter, and tell me how it came to pass." 
               "I know not, father, how to answer you," Marah replied, somewhat more composed. "I never thought that it would come so far, and I should love this man. Long have I struggled to subdue a feeling that had gradually mastered my heart and conquered all my resolutions. But all my endeavors to break that spell but proved my utter weakness and how thoroughly I was enslaved. I yielded to his prayers to become his-yielded to what I could not resist. For I love him, father, and I feel to be separated from him is a punishment I could not live to endure. Often have I been tempted to lay my heart open before you, but I imagined you had detected my secret, and only feigned an ignorance Clifford's frequent presence at our house could scarcely have kept up. Encouraged thus, by what I fancied your tacit consent, I closed my eyes to the remonstrances of my own unsatisfied soul, and only listened to the voice that could thrill my soul and open to me a world of bliss and ecstasy, in which I realized all the happiness a young and loving heart could only desire. I have found Clifford good as he is handsome, and his love for me knows no limit. Therefore, I beseech you, father, to look kindly upon our suit and make your daughter happy." 
               "What would your parents not do to make their daughter happy?" Mr. Koltinzky said, after a moment's pause. "If by laying down our lives would add to your happiness, believe me, Marah, both your mother and I would be ready to say farewell to earth and even to you-our heart's idol. But other sacrifices are required of us, and should we shrink from them now when so much as the welfare of your whole future is at stake? No, Marah, I have sent for you in order to relieve myself of a duty that your inconsiderate but not, thank God, irremediable conduct, freshly imposes on me. I have had you called so we might reason together upon this affair; and if, after you had heard me, you should still feel inclined to marry against our wish, I might acquaint you of the resolution I have made. I oppose this marriage, daughter, upon strong and weighty reasons. They would make the most inconsiderate pause and reflect. You are a Jewess, daughter, accustomed to the ways, manners and religion of our people-nay, do not interrupt me, for I would have you hear my reasons before you answered me-Mr. Vane is a Christian, or at least a person, if possessed of any religion at all, not of the religion professed by your father. This is one reason-one of the strongest-that I have to advance in support of my position to withhold my consent to this contemplated marriage between yourself and him." 
               He paused as if to give these words time to impress themselves on Marah's mind. Marah, however, wanted little time for reflection. Her answer was ready, and she gave it in a clear, almost reproving voice. 
               "The reason you have advanced, father," she said, "your own teachings, 'that all beings are alike in the sight of God.' must weaken." 
               "Not a whit, daughter. Though I maintain and I have taught you to believe that God knows no distinction between man and man on account of differently conceived ideas as to faiths and religions, it does not follow that I must also believe, even against a conviction sprung from facts gathered during half a century's active life, that the world-the people, daughter, among whom you will have to mingle-raises no distinction. No, daughter, it were folly, simply to strengthen a weak position, to arrive at so untenable a conclusion. We must at no time deceive ourselves, and to reason thus would be willingly blinding our eyes." 
               "And yet, my father," Marah replied, with considerable animation, "if God loves all alike and calls all of us his children, would you, so liberal, just and kind in all your ways, teach and practice what your conscience disapproves? I will admit that a very great prejudice against Christians still exists among our people, but why should we-why should you, my father, not raise yourself above it and seal your teachings with your deeds?" 
               "I am above that prejudice, my daughter," gravely replied Mr. Koltinzky, "but can not see how success-crowned force or deeds performed can prove a right or wrong. Whether or not you marry a Christian, the prejudice will still remain the same, for that act itself does not prove it right or wrong to a single being. It is only when reason convinces opinions change and obliterate impressions wrongly entertained. We know our age still fosters prejudice; I disapprove-I abhor it, but I can not remove it by consenting to sacrifice you to it." 
               Marah's dark gray eyes grew brighter, and her thin lips curled with bitterness, as she replied: 
               "I am aware that you can not remove it, but I never dreamed, father, that you would encourage it." 
               "I do not encourage it, Marah," the old man continued, carefully preserving his gravity and temper; "as I honestly believe that all such intermarriages rather strengthen than otherwise existing prejudices. The deed itself, my daughter, does not change the belief, but leaves the mind in the same state, which hugs its phantom closer in the same proportion as it supposes it in danger of attack. But even should there be found two beings who can agree to lay aside all prejudices and only have one thought, I still should say they sin in marrying one another, and would believe to oppose such a union to be a deed of praise." 
               "How sin, my father?" Marah inquired. 
               "They sin against themselves," the old man replied, solemnly, "in sacrificing their future peace, their happiness. Man is a social being, and must mingle with the world; and to have separated himself from his kith and kin, will be followed by inconveniences, slights, insults, social embarrassments, which must embitter his life and awaken regrets in his bosom too late to remove and too well-founded to be reasoned away. Therefore, my daughter, I object to your marriage with Clifford Vane. I can not see you take a step fraught with danger to your happiness. The honeymoon lasts but a brief time, the poetry of youth and of a passion-heated imagination gradually but surely merges into the prose of common sense and practical life, and rosy-winged fancy steals away and leaves us in the midst of a contending world in which to take a part. It is then, my daughter, that difficulties arise, and wise is he who can evade or overcome the smallest portion of them. And do you think your father, over whose gray head nine and sixty winters have laid their frost, can send you forth into this world's great struggle with a disadvantage that would make you unequal to your task in life's bitter drama, and prove a clog to your feet at every step toward the grave? No, Marah, no. I can not sacrifice you thus. We must take the world as it is, and not as we would have it. Remember that you are the daughter of a Jewish Pole, and where will you find a nationality against which a stronger prejudice exists? Does not the German Jew despise the Polish Jew more than any other people? Where, my Marah, would you seek for counsel and relief in times of trouble and tribulation, after your parents had been taken to their final home, and you had separated yourself from your people? Would you seek it in the Gentile world? Would you seek it among the German Jews? O, lay not that unction to your soul, that aught save gross indifference, cold hands and stern faces would greet you on all sides. Would you go to your own nationality? Then dispel that thought, too. Once intermarried with a Gentile-once separated from my people-all grace in their sight is lost, all sympathy is withheld, and no truce is accepted. Do you understand now why I am opposed to this union?" 
               Marah had not listened to her father's words unmoved. The truths they conveyed had vividly impressed her mind with the dangers she was courting. Still she could not persuade herself to give up the man who had succeeded in winning her love. Would she not sooner have given up life itself? How could she be happy without him? What joys could be hers if not shared by him? What misery could be as great as to be separated from him? None, she thought. Therefore, tears rolled down her cheeks as she came to understand the little likelihood of being able to persuade her father to yield the applied-for consent. 
               Isaac Koltinzky had closely observed his daughter, and saw that he had not spoken in vain. Yet those tears annoyed him. He understood her grief and sympathized with her. Old as he was, the ardency of a youthful love-the ardency as he himself had felt it, long, long years ago-time had not yet effaced from his mind. He pitied her from his soul, and would have offered her consolation had he not known that such wounds only time could heal. Therefore, he remained silent, and patiently waited to see whether she would not compose herself and answer him. But as minute after minute passed away, and still she wept and he could hear her sobbing, his own heart misgave him, and he wished fate had spared him this sorrow in his old age. He rose from his chair and moved toward the window, remained there to look out into the garden for a minute, then recrossed the room, and once more took a seat by his daughter. 
               "Marah," he said, affectionately, "I have spoken to you as a father should speak to a daughter who is about to take a step he deems, with reason, to be fraught with the greatest dangers. You should not grieve and weep over my remarks, but ponder over them to discover whether I have exaggerated the dangers looming in the future. If you can dispel those apprehensions in a manner satisfactory to yourself and me, you will find me reasonable and yielding. But I have had too many sad experiences in this world not to have learned the great curse of entering life with disadvantages that never can be overcome." 
               Marah raised her face; it was calm now, and, though her eyes were still red from weeping, the tears had ceased to flow. 
               "Do not deem me ungrateful, father," she commenced, "if I can not agree in sharing with you those fears and apprehensions you have so vividly drawn before my eyes. I know there is considerable prejudice; but how can it affect me in so great a measure, as long as I care not for the opinion of the world and know myself loved by Clifford Vane?" 
               "How it can affect you, my daughter? As it affects every one else. In a thousand various ways it will make its sad influence felt. And then times come when we reproach ourselves for having been so short-sighted as to step right into a pit, though it yawned before our very eyes and none approached it. And we begin to feel embittered at ourselves, at all the world, and the most at those who saw us take the step and warned us not-at those who lured us on to take it. The husband will think the wife the cause, and the wife will think the husband the cause of troubles consequent to such a union. Much as they may love one another, the idea that if they had remained separated their respective lives would have been brighter, is itself sufficient to make one look upon the other as a stumbling block nothing but death can remove. At such times our temper is likely to sour, and a feeling calculated to cool our loves gradually takes possession of our mind, to terminate in an indifference if not in a total estrangement. And if other troubles-such as fate has in store for all-should with their shadow darken that household, where, if there be no love at home and no sympathy abroad, will we find consolation for our afflicted hearts? And upon whom falls the rod the heaviest? Marah, O, my Marah, it is upon the woman-it is upon the wife. It is upon her who, removed from the diverting influence of excitement, away from the noise and buzz of the world, hidden in some spot where misery can stare at her from every view, is left to her bitter thoughts until death-so often kinder than the world-gently steals a spark of hope and lights the poor and weeping soul away to peace and rest, the rod falls the heaviest. Or should the man not love his wife, and only have married her-have sacrificed his prejudices-on account of mercenary motives-" 
               "O, father, father," Marah interrupted, her tear-filled eyes brightening with a glow of animation, "Clifford loves me better than life-I know he does, I know it; and I love him in return so passionately, father, that no misery the future might have in store for me would not be bliss when compared to the misery of being forced to resign him." 
               "Ah, daughter," replied Isaac Koltinzky, with an increased gravity and solemnity of expression Marah observed with a kind of awe, "it is of this that I would speak to you." 
               "Of what would you speak to me, father?" 
               "Of this love for Clifford Vane. I do not believe it genuine, daughter. There is a period in every person's life-and you have just reached it-when nature warms the heart and fires the blood; when with little efforts, the wily tempter can charm the youthful mind and awaken pleasing sensations-new as they are pleasing and ephemeral-in the bosom of an innocent girl, budding into womanhood. But this is a sickly passion, and though for the moment, if reason does not check its growth, absorbs in itself all other feelings, gets the better of our judgment, and reduces us to abject slavery in our unreasonable yearing for its vile gratification. The charm I know, is ecstatic, the temptation great, and happy would the enslaved one be indeed, were she never destined to awaken from its sweet dream. For our greatest object should be to make one and all happy in life, and no means should be left untried to accomplish that great end. Love, to a great extent, sweetens our existence and is a chief element of consummate and lasting happiness. But, daughter daughter, this what you feel, and are silly enough to call 'love,' is simply passion-nothing more than passion-that derives its sustenance from a highly-wrought and sickly imagination. The beauties it creates are only imaginings which, were they approved of Reason, would be endurable, but, as they are not, are only floating pictures, ready at any moment and by newer impressions to be erased. Then we discover that the ideal we have nourished in our heart possessed no virtue save those imagination threw around it, and no vitality but what a hot and feverish blood supplied. No, this is not love, Marah; for once withdrawn by imagination, it is expelled from the heart in which it had usurped a seat. It is a bastard, of doubtful parentage, and is claimed by none. But love is of legitimate birth, reason and judgment its parentage, and clothed with such beauties as a healthy imagination can throw around it. This love you can not feel for Mr. Clifford Vane." 
               "Father, have I not told you that I love him passionately, and that no greater calamity could befall me than to be forced to resign him?" 
               "You have told me so, Marah," her father replied, "and upon the strength of it I made these remarks. Tell me, what do you see in him to love?" 
               Mr. Koltinzky was silent, and fixed his piercing black eyes upon her half-averted face. He saw, however, how its color changed from white to red, and then from red to white again. 
               "Yes, tell me, daughter, what do you see in Clifford Vane to love?" he repeated, after waiting for sometime for an answer. 
               Marah raised her face. It was still pale; but, as her eyes encountered those of her father, a blush stole quickly upon her cheeks and dyed them crimson. She lowered her head to conceal her embarrassment, which, however, did not escape his notice, then whispered: 
               "I do not know what I see in Clifford Vane to love; only I know that I love him." 
               "I will tell you, Marah, why you love this Clifford Vane." 
               Once more she raised her head. The crimson hue was still upon her cheeks, and lent them an unusual charm. Her large gray eyes were searchingly gazing into her father's, and betrayed in their expression the poorly concealed eagerness with which she awaited the words that were to show her, as it were, the image of her own heart. 
               "You love him, Marah," he continued slowly and calmly, measuring every word, "not for his virtues, but for his form; for his gift of speech, for his winning manners. These are attractions your youthful imagination magnified until you could no longer resist them. They wove a spell around you, enslaved your mind, and aroused a tender passion in your soul. This new sensation was pleasing, and your thoughts began to revel in sweetest pleasures of their own creation. Your hot young blood fired your fancy and transformed this man, through the medium of your own eyes, into a god. But the beauties you enshrouded him in are not his, but yours. They live but in your mind, exaggerated gerated beyond proportion. He has had the skill to feed that passion in your soul until it grew into a flame and made each drop of blood course with an intensified pleasure through your veins. The voice of reason was hushed at once-the dream was far too sweet to suffer aught to interrupt it-and in the enjoyment of the present closed the eyes to every thing that could stay the mad ecstatic revel. Not only that you cared not to discover such spots as might taint his character, you would have been blind to them had they even stood before your mind in bold relief. In this condition I find you, Marah, ready to sacrifice every thing-not for love, as you have been pleased to term it, but for the gratification of a passion which is as short-lived as it is intensified by your imagination." 
               "No, father," Marah replied, with a sense of assurance, "you mistake my character greatly if you suppose my nature impressionable only by such things as, owing to their external appearances, may gratify the eye. I have a higher sense of appreciation than you give me credit for. I can love the good, admire the beautiful, feel elated at the sublime, and esteem the virtuous. I would be false to myself and to you were I to confess that I had found no pleasure at seeing the commanding form of Clifford Vane; at hearing his well-modulated voice, at watching the play of his intelligent features, at gazing into his beautiful eyes, and knowing him by his very gait and movements to be a man. Yes, father, his towering form, possessed of so many graces, would be sufficient to draw a woman's attention upon himself. But handsome as he is, father, it is not that which keeps me spell-bound to him. He is noble, yes, he is good, brave and liberal, and there is nothing-no nothing mean in his composition. He has a big heart, father, and should I not be proud to know that it beats only for me?" 
               "No." 
               Mr. Koltinzky said this "No" without a moment's reflection. Marah looked at his thoughtful face, and felt, for the first time in her life, a bitterness against him. She raised her head in injured pride, and her thin pale lips wore an expression of disdain. Words of resentment were already quivering on those lips, when something seen by her in his venerable face-something she had never before so closely observed-brought a blush of shame upon her cheeks and tears of repentance to her eyes. She felt no longer a bitterness against him, the expression of disdain had changed into one of self-reproach, and she would sooner have died than have uttered the words of resentment that had quivered on her lips. Mr. Koltinzky, after a brief pause, said, with somewhat more emphasis than he had thrown into it the first time-"No." 
               "Why, father?" said the tearful Marah. 
               "Because it is no honor for a woman to reign even as a queen in a heart that is corrupt." 
               "O, father, Clifford's heart is not corrupt," Marah pleaded, amid tears and sighs. 
               "But it is, daughter," Isaac Koltinzky replied calmly. "Clifford Vane has knowingly taken advantage of my hospitality and enticed you from doing your duties, in order to succeed in stealing your affections, which he knew he never could have obtained by a straight, honest courtship." 
               "You wrong him, father, when you accuse him of enticing me from my duties. He has never asked me to deceive you." 
               "No, daughter," replied the old man, a faint smile passing over his lips, "he is too wise a man to commit so great a folly. He knew well enough that such advice would have lost him your respect, and would have been equivalent to a confession of his guilt. Why should you deceive me in what I would not disapprove? O, no, he is too experienced to fall in such a trap. Of such a blunder a stripling of sixteen might be guilty, but a man of thirty-a man like Clifford Vane-has learned sufficient of woman's nature to know that a strange delicacy closes her lips when a guilty love has once taken possession of her soul. He knew that you never would expose that love which would displease and grieve your parents. He knew all this, and therefore risked the chance. Why come to mock me in my old age? Why first steal, like some midnight thief who robs when all around him sleep unconscious of the danger lurking near, my daughter's heart before she was aware of his foul scheme, then, after he had gained her confidence and affection, ask me whether I would consent to give him your hand? Why did he not come as a man would and does come, and ask me for my permission to win your affections for himself? Why not lay siege to your heart with my approval, or at least only after he had applied for my consent, though he had not gained it? It is because he knew that he would not get it-because he knew you would be warned in time to shun his first advances.-Nay, do not interrupt me, Marah,-for I know what you would say in extenuation of this crime. You would say that it is not a custom first to apply to the father, and only then to the daughter; that the man must win the heart before he can ask for the hand. But my answer is, that it is not a custom observed by men who are conscious of their worth, and feel themselves entitled to enter the field of competition for the conquest of the heart and hand of the noblest woman. A boy might do such a thing, but a man never. He would blush to take advantage of a guileless maiden's too susceptible heart, and in her ignorance of the world and her own welfare and desires, awaken feelings in her bosom, in the enjoyment of which, he knows, his ascendancy over her would become so great, that she would close her eyes to all his imperfections, and see no danger while he lures her from the path of rectitude. For a woman-a girl in your age-does not yet know her own mind. She is inexperienced in every thing, and dreams not of the thousand vicissitude of fortune to which she becomes subjected after she has once left her parental home. But this is not all. I have still other reasons to advance for my disapproval of this union. Were he even an Israelite, and had he, as he should have done, asked my consent at the proper time, I should still persist in saying, 'Marah, this is no man for you.'" 
               "O, father," interrupted the dejected maiden, "I can see now that you are prejudiced against Mr. Vane." 
               "Prejudiced, daughter? Prejudiced against Clifford Vane? No, daughter, I am not prejudiced when I say to you that he is unfit to become your husband. I would not say aught against his character but what is based upon truth and facts. Listen to me, Marah, and dry those tears which ill become your handsome face. I have still some serious words to say to you. You are our only child-the child of wealthy parents. From your infancy to the present moment, we have taken pleasure to gratify your every wish. Reared in the lap of luxury, unfamiliar with want and its attending cares and sorrows, petted at home, humored by your friends, and respected abroad, you are not prepared to become the wife of a man who is penniless, and is likely to remain so, owing to his own extravagance and his love of cards. Unfortunate as the woman is who marries such a man, none would be more so than yourself. You have not been educated as the daughters of the poor, whose training fit them to such stations in life in which your ignorance of economy and of household duties would be sadly felt." 
               "But, father, you are rich, and you will never let me be in want," Marah said, amid tears. 
               "My daughter, never shall you know what it is to want so long as your parents can shield you. I am rich, it is true, and all that riches has been hoarded by your parents, not for themselves, no, indeed, but for you, my daughter. Look at this splendid mansion, look at the evidence of our wealth in our profuseness of expenditures in each department of our household, and you can discover for whose benefit all this display is made. Your mother and I would be content-aye, perhaps happier-in an humbler establishment, where we could lead a more retired, a more peaceful life. We have not been raised to such as this. And now we are old, worn out, and indifferent to such shows and extravagance. But you are young, daughter-just in those years when life is sweetest, and the still untainted heart is filled with a buoyant spirit; when affection is yet pure, and love begins to thrill our soul, and every wind brings music to our ears; when hope is still young, and throws a rosy tint upon our path; when our imagination is most vivid to conceive, and our nature most keen to enjoy, the beauties of creation. It was for the purpose of increasing your happiness, Marah, that your old parents have prepared this paradise for you, and happy would we be, indeed, if never a serpent had entered it to poison our daughter's ears. Clifford Vane is poor-not because he had no incomes from his labor, but because his outlays have always exceeded these incomes. Look about you, daughter, and see the thousands of men who, notwithstanding their industry, are poor. Were you to ask them for the reason of their poverty, they would answer you, in all probability, that it requires all the income of their labor to meet expenses. Few would you find who could complain with justice of labor's wages. But, daughter, they do not understand the secret of getting rich, which consists in saving money. They know not, nor can you make them understand, how to live within their income. You could not make them believe that nine-tenths of their expenses are for the gratification of artificial wants. Every man can get independent in studying this lesson. But Clifford Vane knows not the value of money, nor does his present conduct justify the belief in a reformation. He is extravagant and reckless, and short would be the time indeed before he would reduce you from a life of ease and comfort to one of actual want and penury. Daughter, listen to me. I am old, and have experience. I speak in the interest of your welfare. The man, notwithstanding his fine looks and elegant speeches, is not practical. To place wealth into his hands would be a temptation for still greater extravagances in life, and there is no fortune so large but what can be exhausted. And were I called upon to point out a man who would bankrupt a King, I should point at Clifford Vane. And is this the being I should entrust with the reward of my labor-with your bread and meat, for it is your bread and meat, Marah?" 
               Marah was sobbing bitterly. Her father's reasoning, though it deprived her of the great faith she had had in her lover, by no means diminished the force of her passion with which she clung to him. She imagined her father inclined to exaggerate the evil in order to dissuade her from her purpose. What did she understand of poverty, penury and want? She had never had the misfortune to experience their direful effects. She could not know, even from the vividest description, to what extremes of misery a human being might be reduced by one single wrong step. Therefore she raised her tearful eyes and said: 
               "We will live economical, father, and take care of what your generosity may allow us." 
               "What my generosity may allow you, daughter?" the old man broke in, hurt to the quick. "Look, all your mother and I have is yours. We can take nothing hence, and if we could we would not, if it deprived you of a single pleasure." 
               "O, father, father!" and she threw her arms around his neck and wept upon his shoulder. "Forgive me for what I say. I know I have the best of parents, but your words have made me so wretched that I feel like dying before I see another day. O, father, father, I am so unhappy!" 
               The old man gently stroked her hair and pressed a kiss upon her brow. It was growing dark now, and the trees from without threw a somber shadow into the room. But still Isaac Koltinzky kept his seat, determined to do his duty with that calmness and deliberation he had acquired through long years of self-study. 
               "Rather suffer now," he continued after Marah had to some extent regained her composure, "than when it is too late to stop the evil. You speak of economy, but scarcely know its meaning. You know not what it is to live from hand to mouth, and I trust to God you may never have to learn it." 
               "But, father, I should sooner live in poverty-be it ever as black as you have drawn the picture-than live away from Clifford. Our love and tenderness for one another is so great, that we should still be happy had we but a crust of bread between us." 
               "Spoken as the daughter of my wife should speak," Mr. Koltinzky replied, with some emphasis. "But to be happy with a crust of bread is easier said than done. O daughter, daughter! believe your old father when he says the honeymoon lasts but a brief period, and the passion which makes each moment teem with bliss soon subsides, and shows us the world in its reality. What a torment it is then to be coupled to a man in whom we have been deceived, who possesses no virtues, and whose vices gradually begin to show their revolting faces to our sight. I know youth can scarcely understand how ephemeral in its existence is the passion that solely draws its subsistence from an unhealthy imagination, and how great the dearth when the heart does not supply the virtues which command esteem and love, to reconcile us to the enjoyment of pleasures which are not so fervid, but far more healthy and enduring than those imagination had once supplied. Nature prepares us for this change, and we gradually merge into an existence in which passion weakens and steals away with the dreams and follies of youth. But even then, my daughter, there are trials for the wife who is married to a good and worthy man, and she would soon find out that poverty is productive of many evils. Though wealth, it can not be said, brings happiness, yet few can deny the fact that poverty is not the mother of a million tears. To live on a crust of bread! It sounds well in poetry, daughter, but it tastes bitter in our prosaic life. Poverty destroys all fond dreams, embitters our soul, is food for complaint, breeds and encourages quarrels, and perverts the sweetest temper. Criminations and recriminations become frequent, and if they do not, their trials are still so great that none but heroic souls can bear them with something like a show of equanimity, and none but such as are bound heart to heart can learn to endure. The spring-time of our lives flies, and with it disappear those beauties that charmed our youthful imagination. The rose steals away from the soft cheeks, the bright eye grows dull, the handsome raven locks lose their lustre and turn gray, the smooth brow becomes wrinkled, the graceful form begins to stoop, and the elastic step becomes heavy and slow. Look at the picture, daughter. It is the destiny of man. Thus have your parents grown-thus must you, must Clifford grow. And still the picture softens down, and in its time-worn face redeems its beauties if the virtues of the soul have left an impress on the wrinkles of that ancient wreck. But Mr. Vane does not possess those virtues to warrant so great a risk as my daughter's happiness. To share a crust of bread with him should poverty overtake his household, though it satisfied his wife, would not satisfy him. He is destitute of so great a virtue, and too trifling, notwithstanding his prepossessing appearance, to encourage the hope that he will never be placed in a position that calls for such a test." 
               "And is he then so trifling, father?" 
               "Would I say so if I deemed him otherwise? Under that studied elegance of his, I perceive a heartlessness even his smooth words and affability can not conceal from me. He is one of those polished villains who find their way into the best society. I suffered his presence at our house, but never encouraged it. Had I ever dreamed that my Marah could so far forget herself as to throw away her heart upon such a man, I should have barred the door against him, and sooner have died than have admitted him. He is a mercenary adventurer, whose only ambition is to gain your hand for the purpose of obtaining fresh stakes for the gaming-table." 
               "Father," Marah replied, grieved at those accusations, "you have no just grounds for calling Mr. Vane a mercenary adventurer. In aspiring to become a son to you, a husband to your daughter, he must not, of necessity, be prompted by one of the unworthiest motives. He loves your daughter, not her father's money; he asks for her hand, and not for your purse." 
               "But, Marah, he knows that the possessor of your hand will have a strong claim upon your father's purse." 
               "And will this knowledge be calculated to diminish his love for me? Or is he, on that account, unqualified to tender me his affections? I do not think so, father, for were we to admit the soundness of this argument, we would have to arrive at the conclusion that wealth and love can not go hand in hand." 
               "I do not admit the soundness of your argument, Marah," Mr. Koltinzky replied, "from the fact that it is based upon a misunderstood question. I have not said that Mr. Vane's knowledge 'that with your hand my purse would go,' is calculated to diminish his love for you; but I intended to say that having that knowledge he has feigned a love in order to further his mercenary aim. Not that you are not lovable, daughter-for you are as pure and handsome as any maiden in Israel-but a man like Mr. Vane, believe me, is beyond the age to marry solely for love. He is no longer a boy, and guided by passion. No. He is a man who can and does reflect, and who, in asking your hand-the hand of a Jewess-is not alone guided by love. Believe me, daughter, there is no sincerity in his professions, for if there were he would have paused to acquaint you of the sacrifice he asked you to make for him, and the probable results that would follow from it. He would have tried to be honest with your parents by confiding to them his hopes and wishes, and would have given them time for reflection, and a chance to find out his own worth and sincerity. Had he esteemed you he would long since have shunned the gaming-table, and shown a desire for reformation." 
               "Father, I can not see the wrong in playing cards. It is an amusement in which to indulge one must not necessarily forfeit his character. Mr. Vane finds pleasure in it. I know not why he should esteem me less on that account. I am sure a little recreation should not be judged so harshly even by you." 
               "You are right, daughter," replied the old man, "a little recreation should not be judged harshly, provided the consequences are not dangerous. But here we take issue. I maintain that a gambler is a curse to himself and to society at large, and the least qualified person to make a woman happy. He forgets his mission as man, and wastes what might have been a life of usefulness. Man, my daughter, should always remember this. It is degrading in this age of reason and enterprise to lack that spirit that leads to prominence and wealth. Life, dear daughter, is a series of plays, and wise is he who studies those cards, and plays them well. This is the game in which Mr. Vane should take delight to take a prominent part, and then he would discover how much more interesting it is than the childish one in which he now indulges. A man, daughter, a man of mind and intellect, looks upon all the world as participants in this grand game, and never forgets for a moment that the cautious, attentive and discreet player has no time, as he can have no pleasure, to remove his eyes from that grand spectacle upon one of so great an insignificance. You speak of recreation. Recreation! What greater recreation can a man have than to study well this series of games, which constitutes our span of life, and tries to win them? How interesting such a struggle! How varied each game! To-day the cards are poor, and our opponents skilled and cautious. To-morrow all is changed, and what was lost on yesterday is once more recovered. So game after game is played, dear daughter, and whoever seeks recreation outside of them gives proof of his incapacity to understand life in its most exalted sense, and is destined to become the victim of lethargy, indifference and ignorance. Clifford Vane does not see life in this light; he knows the value neither of time nor money. He has no ambition; is neither of a nature to shape circumstances for his welfare, nor to resist them if they should clog his actions. In short, he is one of those men whose destiny it is to inflict misery on all those whose misfortune it should be to sail in the same ship with him. Now, daughter," added Mr. Koltinzky, gently taking hold of Marah's hand, "you have heard some of my reasons why I object to giving my consent to this union. Will you obey me, and try to forget, in your duty toward yourself, and your love toward your old mother and father, this passion for Clifford Vane? Or will you be obstinate, and sign your own death-warrant? I have full faith in the wisdom and goodness of my daughter. She will not send her parents to an untimely grave. She will not repay their solicitude, care and love with disobedience. She will not disgrace them in the sight of their people, and make them the most wretched of the wretched. She will respect their white hair, and not rob them of their peace. She will remain a dutiful child, and take her father's advice. She will dismiss that man and receive her father's blessing, or accept him and dig a grave for old Koltinzky and his wife." 
               He said nothing more. The hand he held in his he suffered to glide away, and Marah saw her father leave his seat by her side and make his way through the room. It had grown dark by this time, and every thing was still around her-except her heart. It beat violently, and would not let her rest. Yet for some time she sat there as if bereft of all her senses. She neither stirred nor seemed to breathe. Her eyes were vaguely peering through the dark at the blank and shadowy space without. At last a heavy sigh escaped her lips, and a moment later she was in tears and sobbed aloud. 
               Her heart was broken. The bright dream of her youth had been dispelled, and the future showed her not a spark of hope. She prayed that she might die before she would leave her seat, but the heart can endure much misery, and she was destined to live to feel the agonies of despair. 
               The bell for supper rang. It had the effect to call her partly to herself. She dried her tears, then passed into the hall, and from there sought her boudoir, where she washed her face so as to obliterate the signs her weeping had left upon her cheeks. 
               Isaac Koltinzky and his wife had already taken their respective seats around the table, when Marah, pale, thoughtful, and with a firm step, entered the dining hall and took her customary place close to her father's side. She helped herself to several trifles, and called upon the servant to bring her some tea. In the meantime, Mr. Koltinzky related some little local news to his wife, who answered him only in monosyllables. She was evidently not as much at ease as her husband. Marah was not slow to detect that the thoughts of her parents were, as little as her own, upon this discussion, and would have preferred had her father spared those efforts at diversion. 
               The supper was over; Mr. Koltinzky raised a prayer of thanks to heaven, and wife and daughter listened in silence. Never before had his voice been so sad-so tender; never before did it impress Marah so much with its sweetness. She waited until her parents had gone from the table, then she rose also and left the room. The door had hardly closed on her before she fancied to hear loud sobs in the room she had just left. Her heart began to beat faster, and the blood left her cheeks. She paused a moment, then lightly stole to the wall and put her ear against it. She remained in this position for some time, and while she listened a cold chill crept through her frame, and froze the blood in her veins. With slow step she retraced her steps to the door, and ere they were apprised of Marah's presence, Isaac Koltinzky and wife were discovered in tears by their daughter. This old couple, sitting on a low bench, side by side, their wrinkled faces concealed in their handkerchiefs, was a sight to move the hardest to tears, but on Marah it had the opposite effect. Her grief was too deep, and her heart too grieved, to unburthen itself in this manner. She stood there as if petrified. Her thin lips were compressed, the expression of her face hard-almost stern. 
               The old man raised his head and removed his handkerchief. As she beheld his tear-tilled eyes and his sunken cheeks, she could control herself no longer. She flew to his side and threw herself upon her feet before him. Her pent up emotions gave way, and she wept aloud. "Father, father," she shrieked, "for God's sake do not drive me mad! I cannot endure this sight. Don't cry, don't cry-oh, don't cry. I will be good and obedient. I will not grive you and mother. Sooner than to disobey you I would die. Curse, curse me, father, if I fail in this. I shall dismiss Clifford this very night, and when next you see your daughter, I swear it, father,-hear me, I swear it, I shall have done with him forever!" 
               She rose from her feet and turned to her mother. 
               "Mother," she said, "upon my bended knees I beg you to forgive me. I know I have done wrong, but I was mad and knew not what I did. Pardon me, and I promise to deserve your blessing in the future." 
               Mrs. Koltinzky kissed and embraced her daughter. 
               Marah rose to her feet, and while a strange wild light glistened in her eyes, turned towards the door, and passed out into the hall. 
             
             
               CHAPTER VI. 
               THE FATAL INTERVIEW. 
               WHEN Clifford Vane took a seat in the street-car near the Brighton House, after he had seen Kate Strong start homeward, he experienced a kind of satisfaction, that arose from a consciousness of having creditably played his part in getting rid of so great an encumbrance. It must be confessed it was with no little regret he had taken leave of the woman in whose company he had spent some happy moments in his life. To say that he had loved her, or that he ever had intended to make her his wife, as he had often promised her, would be accrediting him with a feeling of purity and a sense of honesty his debased nature could never have understood or felt. But, nevertheless, he had admired her greatly, in his own peculiar way, and would have given much had circumstances not demanded of him so great a sacrifice. It had once been his intention to persuade Kate to leave home and dwell with him in the city where he would have kept her until he had grown tired of her. He knew well enough that he could have persuaded her to do almost anything that would have added to his happiness, and he doubted not the power of his eloquence to silence all such fears and apprehensions as to the propriety of clandestinely leaving the parental home the proposition might have raised in her mind. But of late, old Allen had looked upon him, and spoken to him, as one who would shortly be one of his own family-his Kate's husband. The neighbors, too, of the old farmer, had come to the conclusion that handsome Kate would soon marry the city gentleman; and not unfrequently he had had to listen, while on a visit to the farm, to remarks from Allen Strong's acquaintances, that required answers he could, notwithstanding his usual tact, scarcely evade with any grace. He would have cared very little for the impression his frequent visits to Kate had left in the country, but, unfortunately, these farmers had carried this news to the city, and the rumor that he was to marry some country belle, had, by some means or other, reached his friends' ears, and with the additions scandal-mongers had made to it since its first importation, had threatened to become a great disaster to him. He had therefore enjoined upon the girl not, under any circumstances, to come to the city, and he had also determined to break off his flirtation with her, and boldly to deny, should it become necessary, to have had the least connection with her. He had set his heart upon marrying old Koltinzky's daughter. Marah was beautiful, the old man's only child, and therefore heir to his great wealth. But notwithstanding her unrivalled beauty, her extraordinary grace, her charming contour-notwithstanding her refinement, education and social standing, and her great and passionate love for him, she had never been able to awaken more than a vicious appetite for the enjoyment of her charms in his debased heart. He had set his heart upon this marriage, however, for motives, if not quite so pure as love, were no less strong and incentive. Clifford Vane needed money; had to have it, and as all his former resources had failed to supply him with the necessary demand to liquidate debts contracted at the gaming-table, he had stooped to become a forger. He had on several occasions forged drafts and acceptances, also due bills to a very considerable amount, on Mr. Isaac Koltinzky. The money thus obtained had kept him afloat for some time, but now the day was not far distant when several of these acceptances would fall due and expose the forgeries. He had not a single resource from which the necessary funds might be obtained in order to postpone the evil day for a brief time. There remained no other alternative than to marry Marah. If he could accomplish this, he felt confident not only that his reputation would be spared, but that his whole future would be guaranteed to him. He had succeeded in gaining Marah's affections with an ease that both flattered and astonished him; he had also allayed the suspicions of her parents by a well-studied, unlover-like phlegmatism, and now felt and knew that his power over their daughter had become almost irresistible. All his plans had worked to perfection, and with the answer Mr. Isaac Koltinzky had given him upon his request for the consent to Marah's hand, still upon his mind, and the sense of being free of any annoyance that Kate Strong might have occasioned him had he not perfectly dispelled her illusion, it is not to be wondered that he succeeded, as he rode back into the city, in persuading himself of being on the eve of the realization of his hopes and of the consummation of his carefully laid scheme. 
               Arrived in the city he repaired to his room to change his suit of clothes. At no time indifferent to his toilet, the attention he paid to it this evening was unusually great. He carefully selected from his wardrobe the choicest, and, without running into the extreme, found himself, after the lapse of nearly an hour, dressed in the latest fashion, exhibiting the good taste of having avoided all unnecessary display. He looked into the mirror, and a smile of triumph, which might have been expected of a female in reviewing her own beauty, shot over his face. He had not been pleased with himself so much-he could not remember the day. After once or twice walking up and down the floor, and humming several snatches of his favorite operas, he picked up his hat and left his room for the purpose of taking some refreshments at some restaurant in lieu of his regular supper. 
               It was near to nine o'clock when a servant knocked for admittance at the door of Marah's boudoir, and, after being admitted by her mistress, announced the presence of a visitor. 
               "Who is it?" inquired Marah. 
               "Mr. Vane." 
               "Where did you leave him?" 
               "I left him in the arbor, Miss Marah," replied the servant. 
               After a little reflection, during which she looked out upon the garden, she said: "Invite him into the drawing-room, and tell him I shall be down presently." And as the girl was about to withdraw, she added: "Has Mr. Vane been seen by any one of the family?" 
               "Do you refer to your parents?" 
               "Yes, I mean my father or mother," and her face wore an expression of uneasiness. 
               "No, they have gone out; to take a walk, they said." 
               Marah felt considerably relieved at this information. Her parents were gone, and she could do her duty free of the embarrassment their untimely presence might have occasioned. She ordered the servant down stairs to show Mr. Vane into the drawing-room, whither she soon followed. Mr. Vane could hear her steps in the hall, and he turned his eyes toward the door through which she had to make her entrance. He had to wait but a moment, and her shadow crossed the threshold. He looked up and saw her face. In a single glance he read his doom. His ruddy cheeks, for a moment, turned green as grass, and he fairly trembled. He could neither rise to greet her, nor find words to articulate. Elated as he had been, and not having had the slightest shadow of a doubt as to the favorable result of the interview between father and daughter, the illsuccess he could read in every lineament of her face had really stunned him. Marah, advancing toward a seat, had observed that her looks had betrayed to him the result of her meeting with her father, and therefore simply said, as he now inquiringly looked at her: 
               "Need I repeat to you, Mr. Vane, after you have seen my face, the message you must have guessed by this time?" 
               Mr. Vane had again acquired his equanimity. He knew what was at stake-his whole future-and he determined, as his face once more assumed its natural color, neither to speak nor to act hastily in this affair. He would calmly listen to the objections which Mr. Koltinzky must have raised, and studiously avoid any thing that might be calculated to alienate Marah's affection from him at so critical a juncture. 
               "You are sad, and heavy at heart, Marah," he replied, in his rich, manly voice, "while you were full of joy and hope when I left you a few hours since. Tell me, have I been mistaken in your father's mind, and is he unwilling to part with you?" 
               "Mr. Vane, you have made me believe-and I have had full confidence in your words-that you loved me sincerely, that you loved me only." 
               She stopped abruptly, and riveted her large gray eyes upon her lover's face, which blanched somewhat under the inspection. What could she mean? She had never doubted him before-had always had the fullest confidence in his professions of love? Was it possible that she had been apprised, during his brief absence, of his connection with Kate Strong? Might not her father have heard of it himself, and have imparted the rumor, with such coloring as he had deemed advisable, to her, in order to raise suspicions in his loyalty? The thing was more than probable. He would wait, however, and see. If this were all-if nothing else had happened-Clifford Vane did not doubt his own skill to convince her of his faithfulness. Besides, if she had not loved him, would she have been moved to jealousy? A faint smile lighted up his face, as he replied: 
               "Marah, I do not understand you well. Tell me-tell your own Clifford-what has happened since my absence from you. Has some one envied us our happiness, and tried to poison your ears against me? You know that I love you sincerely-that I love you only-that you are my very life. Why doubt me now-now, at the very moment I expected to hear from you when my fondest hopes are to be realized?" 
               I do not doubt you, Clifford-I have never doubted you," she replied, mournfully gazing at him. "I can tell by my feelings the intensity of your own. Those who love are strong, Clifford, and can endure much." 
               "You are right, Marah," interrupted Mr. Vane, "the faithful are equal to any sacrifice, and find themselves richly rewarded in the knowledge of having served their love. I would die for you, Marah," and his voice almost sunk into a whisper. 
               "God forbid," she exclaimed, in a tremulous tone, "that you should die. And yet you must make a sacrifice which may be no less hard to bear. You must leave me, Clifford, and forget the past. Marah Koltinzky and Clifford Vane are destined never to experience that happiness of which they have dreamed." 
               "Marah, Marah! what is this I hear? Are we to be parted, and must I relinquish the only treasure of my heart? Tell me, do not keep me in suspense, for my brain is on fire, and I am already half mad." 
               He rose from his seat, and advanced to where Marah stood, pale as death and frigid as ice. He threw himself upon his knees before her, and was about to take hold of her hands, when she stepped back a pace, and exclaimed, while her whole form trembled from her ill-concealed agitation, "As you love me, do not touch me!" 
               "In the name of Heaven, Marah, how am I to understand your conduct?" Mr. Vane exclaimed, rising to his feet. "You are no longer like yourself. I pray you, tell me what has happened to you. This suspense is beyond endurance." 
               "Mr. Vane, be seated." 
               He sat down, ill at ease. He did not like her manner of greeting him. It foreboded something terrible-something he feared to contemplate. She was so calm-fearfully calm. If she only were more agitated-gave signs of an inward struggle-he might hope to turn the tide in his favor. But that resolute look, that strange monotonous voice, indicated a settled purpose-a resolve already taken, which, his own heart told him, boded destruction to his hopes and plans. An unpleasant sensation as he had never experienced in all his life before took possession of him, and set his heart palpitating with an unnatural force. He had set every thing upon this game, and he was about to lose it. The thought fairly maddened him. He felt more than uncomfortable, and his pale face, for once in his life, could not conceal his emotions and his disappointment. 
               Marah, notwithstanding her outer appearance of calm, was far from being so within. She was struggling hard to repress her tears, and not to give way to her feelings. She had noticed what impression her conduct had left upon the man she loved better than aught else on earth, and her almost bursting heart wept for him. She would have given worlds had she been permitted to throw herself upon his bosom, and once more assure him of her unbounded-unreasonable-love for him. But she had pledged her father to break with Clifford Vane-she had sworn to have nothing more to do with him, and she had determined upon keeping that oath inviolate-determined upon dying sooner than to break it. Therefore, she had steeled her heart to the task, and doubted not her strength, however much she might have to suffer by it, to be equal to the emergency. But then Clifford Vane had not been there to raise his sad face and eyes to her, and, with a force almost irresistible, shake and nearly break her resolution. Now she struggled with the influence his very presence exercised over her, and only regretted that she had not resisted the temptation of this interview, and in writing acquainted him of her determination. But it was too late to change it now; here he sat, handsome-handsomer than she had ever seen him, she thought-in despair, looking into her eyes, waiting, with a show of sadness that threatened to move her to tears, to hear from her own lips the words that were to deprive him of hope and happiness. She pitied him more than she pitied herself, and, great as the agony of her own soul was, she fancied she could have borne it with some show of equanimity, if she could have been assured that he would not have to suffer also. But the very sight of him dispelled that thought and added to her misery. Fancying that his love not only equalled but surpassed her own-never dreaming that it was the prospect of losing the great wealth he had already looked upon as his own that made him appear so disconsolate-she determined to make the suffering and the suspense of short duration only. Bracing herself to the effort, she said: 
               "Mr. Vane, since our last interview I have, after due reflection, arrived at the conclusion to decline the honor of sharing your name, and now trust that you will respect my resolution and permit me to hope that you take this answer as final, and spare me the pains of any explanation. It is my wish that we should be strangers from this hour." 
               While speaking she had kept her eyes upon him, but now, as the last sound of her voice was dying away, her courage forsook her, and she averted her gaze. She was just in the act of moving toward the window when the voice of Mr. Vane arrested her footsteps, and made her stand still in the middle of the room. With her head dejectedly hanging over her bosom, and her jeweled fingers tremblingly playing with the folds of her handsome muslin dress, she listened. 
               "It is your wish, Marah," he said, free of the least agitation, "that we should become strangers from this hour, and I love you too well to raise a complaint against your decision. I will obey you, Marah, and resign what I thought nothing strong enough on earth to tear away from me. I see I have been mistaken; the greater the fool-I should have been wiser. I should not have trusted in a woman's smiles. But ere I'll leave you, I ask you, in the name of the love I have borne and ever shall bear you, for the reason of this great change in your conduct, and why you dismiss me so unkindly and so peremptorily. I think I am entitled to an explanation-will you deny me this last request?" 
               He had riveted his eyes upon her, and had observed, with a satisfaction that revived once more a spark of hope in his bosom, how his words had moved her. He felt convinced that Marah still loved him, and, as long as he had not lost his influence over her, he would not give up the struggle. 
               Marah, who had listened to his reproachful words, scarcely knew how to satisfy his demand, as she intended to spare her father from exposure. She would sooner have the blame upon herself; but, as it was impossible for her to tell him-to tell her own dear Clifford-that she had ceased to love him, she intended to remain silent altogether, and, notwithstanding his entreaties, refuse him the desired information. 
               "Mr. Vane," she said, her eyes still searching the floor, "I beg you to excuse me from giving any explanation for my conduct. I wish to be released from this hastily contracted engagement; let this suffice you-I pray you, if you love me, to spare me the pains of a prolongation of this interview." 
               She raised her head, looked at him a minute, then, with a show of anger, crossed the room and peered out upon the garden. A moment later she felt a warm breath upon her cheeks, she looked around, and found herself in front of Mr. Vane. 
               "I go, Marah," he said, sorrowfully, once more vainly trying to get possession of her hand. "God have mercy on me." He turned as if to move away. A sigh escaped his lips. Marah heard it, felt it, and was overcome. 
               "Clifford." 
               He paused and faced the speaker. 
               "Let us not part in anger. Come here, and say you forgive me, and I will then lead you to the gate through which you have so often come to gladden the heart that henceforth shall know no more happiness." 
               "Part with you in anger?" ejaculated Clifford, approaching the unhappy maiden and gently taking hold of her hand. "Part with you in anger? O, how poorly you must understand my heart, if you can think it capable of harboring aught but love for you. No, not anger. I am too much grieved for that. Here is my hand, Marah, as a sign of forgiveness. May you be happy-" 
               "O, don't speak to me of happiness," she sobbed, no longer able to control her feelings, "I am the most wretched being on earth. I wish I could die." 
               She wanted to release her hand and flee his presence as long as there was time, but he grasped it still tighter, and winding his arm around her waist, gently drew her closer to him. 
               "O, God! what are you doing?" she shrieked. "You know I can not resist you; why do you tempt me, then, so strongly?" and her head fell upon his breast. 
               "Marah! Marah! say, do you love me?" 
               "Why do you ask? Go, go, and leave me to myself." 
               "Not until you have opened your heart. Who has come between you and me? I shall not leave this spot until you have answered me." 
               "I can not tell you, Clifford-I can not." 
               "Is it your father?" 
               "It is, Clifford," she said at last, thinking it best to undeceive him at once. "It is my father. He fears the result of this union, and therefore denies to give us his consent." 
               "Why fear the result of this union?" he replied. "What has he seen in my character to warrant such an apprehension? Or is it simply prejudice on his part, because I happen not to be born of Jewish parents?" 
               "No, no, Clifford, my father entertains no prejudices, and yet I believe if you were one of our people I should have been able to overcome his other objections. He fears that when once we are married we would regret the step we had taken." 
               "Marah, if you love me-if you have ever loved me-listen to me. Fly with me from the home of your childhood, and let us erect one of our own. Your father's consent, I feel confident, I shall never obtain, and to resign you I never can. Would you destroy your own happiness-would you drive me to despair-because nature has pleased to give me Christian parents?" 
               "O, Clifford, tell me, how can I ever be happy, even with you, were I to leave my good old parents, who have none besides me to love them? They would die of grief, and strangers, instead of their own child, would have to do the last duty of love for them. No, I'd sooner die than grieve them thus. You don't know how much they have done for me." 
                
               She walked away from him to shed her tears in silence. He followed her, and once more taking hold of her hand led her to a seat. He knelt down before her, and pleaded his cause with all the eloquence at his command. She listened to him attentively, and did not interrupt him once until he had finished, then she rose from her chair, and while fully turning her eyes upon him, said, with a calmness that contained all the elements of despair: 
               "I am resolved. I can not leave my parents. The curse of heaven would rest upon both of us, and their shadows would haunt me to the very latest day of my life. So let us part. It was a sweet dream-too sweet to last." 
               "Are you determined," replied Mr. Vane, "to destroy our happiness?" 
               "Why ask again?" she said, pale as death. "If you would not drive me mad you will no longer urge me. Come, let us for the last time in our life walk arm in arm through our favored paths, then bid adieu forever." 
               Saying this she passed her arm through his and silently conducted him into the garden. 
             
             
               CHAPTER VII. 
               WHAT HAS BECOME OF HER? 
               IT was past ten o'clock when Mr. and Mrs. Koltinzky returned from their walk. They had taken a longer stroll than usual, and were considerably exhausted, so they retired at once to their room. As it grew later, Mr. Koltinzky laid the paper, which he had been reading for some time, aside, and turning towards his wife, expressed his astonishment at their daughter's non-appearance. She had never stayed out so long before; it was now nearly eleven, and still they could neither hear nor see any thing of her. She surely had not retired without saying good-night to them. Of such an omission of duty she had never yet been guilty. From the first night of her birth her father had always blessed her before retiring; she certainly would not dispense with it now. "Go and see where our daughter is," Mr. Koltinzky said to his wife Leah, who at once rose from her chair and passed into the hall, where she met one of the servants. 
               "Where is Marah?" she inquired of the latter. 
               "I don't know, ma'am." 
               "Is she in the drawing-room?" 
               "I don't know." 
               "Go and see." 
               The servant went, but soon returned with the information that the drawing-room was unoccupied. Now Mrs. Koltinzky took it upon herself to search. She went from room to room, calling her daughter's name, but without success. Marah was evidently not about the house. Where could she have gone? thought her mother. She surely could not have gone any distance, or else she would have left word behind to that effect with the servants. So Mrs. Koltinzky went into the servants' apartment, where she gained the information that Marah had been seen walking in one of the arbors with Mr. Vane between the hours of nine and ten. 
               With this news she returned to her husband, who was thoughtfully walking up and down the room, smoking his pipe. "She is not about the house, Isaac," she said, every feature of her wrinkled face expressive of the greatest anxiety. 
               Mr. Koltinzky stopped in his walk, and for a few moments looked at his wife, who in return looked at him. 
               "Not about the house, Leah?" 
               "No, Isaac, I looked into every room." 
               "Into every room?" 
               "Yes." 
               Once more Mr. Koltinzky paced the floor. After completing two rounds, he stopped again in front of his wife. 
               "Have you been in the servants' room?" he inquired. 
               "Yes, and one of the girls saw her walk in the arbor with Mr. Vane, between nine and ten." 
               "Saw whom walk?" 
               "Our Marah." 
               At this information Isaac Koltinzky turned pale as death. The pipe fell from his hands, and, for a moment, he was as helpless as a child. He could neither move nor speak. He was perfectly dumb-founded. 
               "Leah," he said, after a pause, "I want you to stay here until I come back. I am going through the garden; perhaps I can find her in one of the arbors. It is a pleasant night, and she might not know how late it is. I'll see; I'll see." 
               So saying he left his wife, and, after carefully looking into every room as he moved along the hall, and on several occasions calling "Marah," he passed into the garden. It proved a fruitless search. Not a path, not an arbor, but what he passed through. All was quiet and still around him. 
               Marah was not to be found. Isaac Koltinzky returned to his wife with a heavy heart. A fearful thought had crossed his mind, but he would not express it. He would not frighten his wife with it, so he only said, as she inquiringly looked into his thin, sharp face, grown considerably thinner and sharper, as she thought, since he had left her a few moments since: 
               "The girl is not in the garden-don't look so terrified, Leah, rest easy, she will come in good time. She might have gone to some of the neighbors, little thinking of the anxiety her absence is creating in our hearts." 
               He sat down and raised the paper to his eyes. His wife fancied that he was reading, so she left the room and once more searched through the house. She had scarcely passed over the door-sill before old Isaac laid the paper aside, and, placing the pipe between his lips, began to smoke. It was in this manner, while sitting in his arm-chair, watching the gray whirls rising around his head, he was accustomed to give full sway to his imagination, and undisturbedly consign himself to reflection and thought. Now he called back to his memory all that had transpired at the two interviews he had respectively held first with Vane and then with his daughter, and asked himself whether it might be possible that she had forsaken her home and parents. He knew the weakness of woman, and trembled. Clifford Vane was a sweet dissembler, and Marah, in her innocence, might have been won over. Isaac Koltinzky had been young, too, and was familiar with the force of passion. What folly might his daughter not have committed under the influence of the love she bore that Vane? Might she not have forgotten, in a moment of excitement, all the promises she had made, aye upon her knees, to her father and to her mother? Might she not have been too weak to resist the temptation? 
               Isaac Koltinzky was still deeply absorbed in thought, when a hasty step heard advancing in the hall caused him to raise his head in expectancy, and rivet his deep black eyes upon the door. His heart began to beat faster and faster as the step drew nearer, and he was just in the act of calling, "Marah, my darling!" when the door opened and his wife entered. If ever disappointment was written upon any face it was upon that of Isaac Koltinzky. He fell back upon his seat, took a long breath, and the light in his eyes grew dull. 
               "She is nowhere, Isaac!-she is nowhere!" Mrs. Koltinzky remarked, the very picture of despair. "I have again been every-where about the house. O, God! O, God! where is my child?" 
               "Leah, be still," the old man replied calmly, rising from his seat. "Our daughter will come presently. Who knows what might detain her? If anything should have happened to her, rest assured we would have been informed of it." Then abruptly breaking off, inquired: "You surely have not apprised the servants about your anxiety?" 
               The wretched mother replied that she had not. 
               "That is right," the old man continued. "I disapprove of the servants being made familiar with everything happening in the house. You go to bed now, Leah, and don't worry yourself about nothing. I am going out myself, and try to find Marah. Should she return in the meantime, and come to ask your blessing, it is my wish that you refrain from upbraiding her, and be satisfied with any excuse that she might be pleased to offer you. Where is my coat?" 
               "Where do you intend to look for her?" sobbed Mrs. Koltinzky, helping her husband with the necessary clothing. 
               "I shall go every where, Leah, where I might be likely to find her. Don't be uneasy, if I should not return early." 
               He walked to the window and looked out into the darkness. Since his return to the house, the sky had become overclouded, and the air more oppressive. 
               "Leah, is the umbrella near? It looks like rain. I'd better take it along." 
               Mr. Koltinzky left the house only after he had once more passed through the garden. He did not continue his search in his neighborhood. Upon whatever house he turned his eyes he could see that the inmates must have retired, as all was quiet and dark. He directed his steps in a northwesterly direction, and passed, without stopping for a single moment, through many squares. By this time it had commenced to rain, and before he had been out long he found himself caught in the storm. He sought no shelter, however. He passed on, through the deserted streets, defying rain, thunder and lightning. At last he stopped, and carefully looked at the number of a splendid mansion in front of him. "This is the house," he muttered to himself, then ascended the few stiles and rang the bell. After waiting some time without being admitted, he ventured to ring again. This time he was more successful. He heard some one approaching the door. It was evidently a servant who now faced Mr. Koltinzky, who was almost soaked to the skin, and inquired his business at so late an hour. 
               "You must excuse me," the old man said, calmly, "for this disturbance. I have come to inquire whether Mr. Vane, with whom I have important business to transact yet tonight, still has his room here. If so, would you call him for me, and I shall cheerfully reward you?" 
               "He has his room here," said the servant, receiving some change Mr. Koltinzky forced into her hand, "but he left, quite unexpectedly, too, the city about two hours ago. At all events he had his trunks removed without the least notice, and, after he had said good-by to all of us, got into a carriage and rode away." 
               "Was any one else in the carriage?" 
               "Yes, sir. A young lady." 
               "Thank you." 
               With these words, Isaac Koltinzky turned away from the house, and, once more defying the angry elements howling above his head, directed his steps homeward. 
             
             
               CHAPTER VIII. 
               MR. KOLTINZKY'S RETURN. 
               LEAH, for once, had disobeyed her husband. She had not retired to bed as he had instructed her to do before he went out on his unsuccessful search. She was waiting for him all alone in their sleeping room. Seated before the window, she peered out into the darkness, and listened to the thunder's rumbling sound overhead. Her heart was heavy, and she wept. She had not shed so many tears for long, long years. She could not guess what had become of her daughter. A thousand apprehensions were aroused in her bosom, but that Marah could had eloped with Mr. Vane she never thought of. A full hour passed before she heard old Isaac's footsteps in the hall. She rushed to the door, unable to bear the suspense longer. 
               "Where is--good God!" she shrieked, as she beheld his sad face, "you have not found her. O, God! O, God!" and she threw herself on the floor, and began to pluck out her gray hair. Then she sobbed aloud, and calling now on God and now on her daughter, threw herself restlessly from side to side, and gave herself up to the agony of despair. 
               Mr. Koltinzky closed the door, then, dripping from head to foot, seated himself in the first chair, and, placing his head upon his arm, looked with a mute grief at his unhappy wife. He had no words of consolation for her. He could not infuse the least hope into her heart. Marah had evidently eloped with Clifford Vane. Why keep the truth from her? The sooner she knew it the better. 
               He walked over to where she lay, and, kneeling down by her, coaxed her to be silent and to rise. But Leah, instead of listening to his advice, became still more agitated, and would not be comforted. "O, God! O, God! where is my Marah? Where is she?" she shrieked incessantly. 
               "If you quiet yourself and get up," Mr. Koltinzky replied, "I will tell you what I know. I have been in search of Mr. Vane, and have discovered that our daughter has eloped with him. Whither they have gone I don't know; it was too late in the night to trace their flight, but that they have left the city is almost beyond a doubt. So rise, Leah, and compose yourself. It is a terrible blow-it is, Leah-but we must bear it as best we can. We had it too good of late years; God has been pleased to afflict us in our last days; let us submit to it without complaint." 
               Now he related to her what the servant had told him in regard to Clifford Vane's departure. She listened to him with as much calmness as possible, and before they rose from their seats it was understood between them to keep the affair a secret as long as it could be done, and to satisfy all who might inquire into Marah's hasty departure with the information that she had been called into the country to the bedside of a sick friend. 
               It was between two and three before they retired to rest. In a few moments Leah was fast asleep, but old Isaac Koltinzky remained awake, and while he listened to the gentle breath of his faithful partner by his side, and looked at her wrinkled face, tears filled his eyes, and rolled down over his sunken cheeks. There was none to observe him now-he suffered himself to be overcome by his emotions and he wept like a child. 
               It was broad daylight when his wife awoke and discovered that she was quite alone. For a moment she thought that she had had an ugly dream, but gradually she remembered all that had transpired on the previous night, and a sigh rose from her bosom. Shortly after she joined her husband in his library. He was just in the act of leaving it as she entered. 
               "Isaac!" It is all she said, and she threw herself upon the old man's bosom, weeping. "What will become of us?" 
               Mr. Koltinzky proceeded to console her. He helped her to dry her tears, then begged her, as she loved him, not to betray herself to the servants. He would be gone all morning-perhaps all day-he could not tell when he would return, as he intended to go to the various depots, and to such other places where he might be likely to gain some information as to the movements of the eloped. 
               "If you hear any thing, Isaac," she pleaded, "I want you to hurry home and tell me." 
               It was late that day before he returned. To the inquiries of his wife he had but one answer. "I can discover nothing of them," he said, and relapsed into silence. From this time forth a gloom spread over his face, and as day after day passed away and brought no tidings of Marah, he grew more melancholy and sad, and with apparent indifference watched poor Leah as she sat by his side, in tears, mourning the loss of their child. 
             
             
               CHAPTER IX. 
               NEWS AT LAST! 
               ON the morning of the ninth day after Marah's disappearance, while Mr. and Mrs. Koltinzky still sat at their breakfast, one of the servants entered the room, laying a letter on the table, saying that the carrier had just left it at the house, then withdrew once more. Mr. Koltinzky's hand fairly trembled as he picked it up and looked at the strange superscription. "'Tis not her hand," he said, with a feeling of disappointment and shaking his head sadly. "'Tis not her hand." He opened the envelope, and in the twinkling of an eye-before he could have had time to read more than a line-he broke out in the exclamation: "From Clifford Vane!" Seeing that his wife was all eagerness, and feeling that the letter could contain no worse news than they apprehended, he terminated her suspense by reading its contents aloud. 
               
                   
                      
                         
                           
                              "NEW YORK, August 16, 18- 
                              "Mr. Isaac Koltinzky:
                            
                           "DEAR AND HONORED SIR:-In addressing these few lines to you, I am actuated by a sense of duty I owe to the esteemed parents of my beloved Marah. But how am I to commence to explain my conduct, when I must fear that every word I may indite will be misconstrued by those whose favor it has been my chiefest aim, from the first moment I had the great honor of being admitted as a welcome visitor in their midst, to court? I am led to hope, however, that for the great love you have ever evinced for your child, you will turn your wrath away from your humble servant, (who addresses you and who would be all too happy to be permitted to call himself your most dutiful son,) until you have heard what he has to say in his defense. I will not be so bold as to vindicate the step I have taken. To enter the house of a man for the purpose of robbing him of his child, is a crime that scarcely admits of an excuse. And yet, dear sir, who would submit to the loss of the affection of the only being he loves on earth, if there can be found a way to avoid it? I loved your daughter, and she loved me in return-to make us happy it only required your consent to our union. You have been pleased to withhold that consent; and as your objection was based chiefly on the fact that I was a Christian-an objection I knew I could not remove-nothing remained for me to do but to relinquish my claim to your daughter's hands, or by a timely flight insure to me the great prize of her love that I should otherwise have lost. 
                           "We are here now awaiting your forgiveness. Marah prays that you will pardon her great disobedience and bless her. She begs to be permitted to throw herself at your feet at an early date. She would sooner die than forfeit the love of her dear parents. Therefore, we pray you to call us home, and we shall make it our chiefest delight to have your old and honored age as happy and sorrowless as it is in our power to make it. I am grieved to be compelled to inform you of our straightened circumstances. Having had little time to prepare myself for this journey, I feel myself compelled to call upon you for pecuniary assistance, which, for the sake of your daughter, if not for mine, you will be generous enough to advance. I have also been bold enough, some time since, to obtain money upon your name. Should some of these notes be presented to you for payment, I trust, for the honor of your daughter, you will not expose the forger, but pay them, and I assure you, upon the sacred word of man, that I shall submit to any task you may impose upon me for this generosity. 
                           "It is Marah's wish, dear sir, if you should refuse to see me, to return alone to the home of her childhood, to plead once more my case at your feet. In the mean time, I am to remain in New York to await the result of her mission. Let us hear, therefore, by return of mail, your wish, and we shall take pleasure to be guided by it. 
                           "You can find an account of my indebtedness, amounting to something like $4,500, at the bank of Espy, Heidelbach & Co. Please lift the papers and return them to me, for as long as they are not in my possession my honor and safety are in jeopardy. 
                           "You see, dear sir how greatly I am at your mercy. Restore me to your favor and to the credit of the world, and once more I promise you to make such amends as becomes one who has so greatly sinned against you. 
                           "Should you, as I fear, feel too deeply wounded to see me yet, I shall, if you so order it, permit Marah, who can scarcely await the moment to throw herself, full of penitence, at your feet, to make the journey alone, and no human being shall be the wiser for what has transpired. 
                           "With the highest esteem, 
                           
                              "Your affectionate 
                              "CLIFFORD VANE." 
                               
                                 "Address my letter, C. V., Station A, New York City." 
                              
                            
                         
                      
                  
                
               Mr. Koltinzky gazed for some time at that letter after he had got through with reading it to the end. He was evidently puzzled. His wife watched him closely, and observed, with some feeling of uneasiness, how he, at times, contracted his brows into an ugly frown. 
               "Leah," he said at last, as he rose from the breakfast-table and carefully folded the note and placed it in his pocket, "this man is a great, great villain, and all his professions of love for our deluded daughter were as false as his aim was mercenary. The whole upshot of this thing is, that he has forged papers on me, and, not knowing how to save his neck, he staked the honor of our house upon his safety. You have heard what he demands. The return of his forged papers, and he is willing-the scoundrel!-to suffer Marah, if we do not desire to see him, to return to us to plead his cause. As if he knew not the result of such a move. He wants to get rid of her, provided we send the ransom." 
               "Isaac, what will you do?" inquired his wife, full of anxiety. 
               "What will I do? I will make the best of a bad bargain, and yield where resistance would be folly. So far not a soul dreams of this affair. Our Marah must return to us forthwith at any cost or sacrifice." 
               "I fear that she will not leave him." 
               "But I fear no such thing. That scoundrel no more loves her than a fiend, and will be too glad to get rid of her. I can see into his plan, and, more than that, Leah, he wants me to see into it. He knows, as well as I know it, that, to save my daughter's reputation and our honor, I will not hesitate to make any sacrifice. Have you not heard what he says? They are in straightened circumstances-straightened circumstances! His whole object is money, and he shall have it." 
               "But, Isaac," the wife said, after some reflection, "what will you do if he should deceive you after you have assisted him?" 
               "Leah, you don't understand the game he is playing. The fellow has forged my name to some papers and can not redeem them. He knows an exposure would be fatal to him. So he elopes with our daughter-not because he loved her, for such a wretch can feel no love-but from the necessity of placing me in the position to spare him from the consequences of his crime. He is purchasable with money. I shall offer him such a sum that he will not only be willing to relinquish all claims to our daughter, but that he can live an independent life hereafter." 
               "Isaac, you will see he will play you false. I should not send him more than it requires for the defraying of Marah's expense home." 
                
               "You don't reason well, Leah. The fellow has very little to lose now. If we disappoint him he may become desperate and who will be the greater sufferer, he or we? So far all is unknown; the longer we wait the more imminent grows the danger of exposure. He knows that as well as we do. If I give him but a small sum, and he should be willing to resign our daughter, there still would remain the danger, that he may in the future annoy us, and having nothing to risk, expose what we would hide in obscurity. But give him a position in society, which only money can acquire for him, he will, for his own sake, for the scoundrel has pride and ambition, though it is ill-directed, refrain from publishing our misfortune that would involve his own ruin." 
               So saying Mr. Koltinzky sat down and gave himself up to a brown study. His wife frequently interrupted him with inquiries he simply answered in monosyllables. At last he rose, and after several rounds across the room, he informed her that he would go to the bank and after his return come to a conclusion what it were best to do. 
               "What it were best to do?" Leah repeated, with some surprise. "What it were best to do? To pray our Marah to come home to us," and the poor, old lady commenced to weep. 
             
             
               CHAPTER X. 
               SWEET BUT DANGEROUS. 
               ON the fourth day after Mr. Koltinzky had received Mr. Vane's letter, the latter gentleman was seen to make his way to Station A postoffice. He was by himself, and judging from his appearance, and faultless attire, one might have supposed him to be one of the wealthiest merchant-princes of New York city. 
               "A letter for C. V.?" he was heard to inquire at the office. 
               "Yes, sir." 
               Mr. Vane took it, and after making a passing remark about the splendid weather, broke the seal and, without evincing the least excitement, read the following: 
               
                   
                      
                         
                           
                              CINCINNATI, Aug. 23, 18- 
                              MR. CLIFFORD VANE:
                            
                           SIR-In reply to your note I would state that I have paid your indebtedness at the banking house of Espy, Heidelbach & Co. Inclosed you will find the papers as well as a draft on New York for $5,000. I trust that this sum will relieve you of your present embarrassment. As regards Marah, it is my wish that she return at once to the home she has so wantonly deserted. Inform me by return mail when I may expect my daughter home. 
                           
                              Respectfully, 
                              ISAAC KOLTINZKY.
                            
                         
                      
                  
                
               After reading this letter a faint smile passed over Clifford Vane's cheeks, and a strange light shone in his eyes. He was once more free. The forged notes were in his possession, and he might now defy the whole world. "The old fellow understood me," he thought, as he destroyed both the letter and these terrible papers, then went to the bank and cashed the draft. 
               Arrived at the hotel, he sought his own apartment, where Marah was impatiently waiting for him. No sooner had she heard his step than she hurriedly crossed the room and met him at the door. 
               "No letter yet?" she inquired, and as he answered in the negative she drooped her head and sighed. She retraced her steps and sat down upon the divan. "Have you not mailed my letter carefully? Might it not have been lost, Clifford? My father would surely have answered me if it had reached him. He would not let me wait so long." 
               "I have not heard a word from your father, Marah," he replied, taking a seat by her side, "nor do I think that he will answer you. You must have patience; time heals up all wounds-it will also heal his, and then we can hope for a reconciliation. But what have you been doing while I was gone? Your eyes are red. I hope you have not wept again, Marah, for your tears offend me. Why should you shed tears if you are content with me?" 
               "O, Clifford, Clifford, bear with me for a while," she lisped, scarcely strong enough to repress the rising tears, "and do not reproach me if I grieve for the loss of my parents' affections. You know that I love you beyond every thing on earth, and that I sacrificed for you the best home a child ever had. Therefore let my tears not offend you, but I pray you, as you love me, let them flow, so they may lighten my heart of its great weight of grief." 
               "I say it for your own good, Marah," Clifford replied, drawing nearer to her, and winding his arm around her slender waist. "It is true you have left the home of your childhood-the home where you have seen much joy-but it is the destiny of woman sooner or later to say farewell to her home, and make one of her own." 
               "I know it, Clifford, and if my parents' blessing had but followed me, where on earth could I have found more happiness than with you? But their curses!--" She placed her handkerchief before her face and tried to conceal her tears. 
               "They will not curse you, Marah," he replied, "and he seated her upon his lap, and gently pressed her to his bosom. "You know that I love you, and that I shall ever be true to you. Therefore cheer up, my darling, and show me a smiling face." 
               She raised her face and their eyes met. A moment later their lips were sealed together, as they clung to one another in a fond embrace. 
               "Clifford! Clifford!" she exclaimed, as she nestled still closer to him, and twined her rounded arms passionately around his neck. "Much have I sacrificed for the right to enjoy this ecstatic bliss, but what would I not sacrifice now rather than relinquish it again?" 
                
               A strange fire shone in her eyes, and her heaving bosom rose and fell in quick succession. Clifford Vane saw that the moment had arrived for which he had been waiting. "I have found a family, dearest," he said, pressing her still closer and closer to his bosom, "with whom I should like my beloved Marah to make her home. I only fear it will displease her if I tell her that the lady in whose charge I would place her is of humble station, and lives rather secluded in the western part of the city-away from the thoroughfares of fashion and wealth." 
               He pressed a kiss upon her burning lips, then added: "Will it suit you, dearest? Can you be satisfied with such a home?" 
               "Clifford! Clifford!" she exclaimed, "take me any where you will; I'll go with you to the end of the world; if you desire it-only let me be certain of your love, and I'll be happy if you bide by me." 
               He had gained his point. He had not miscalculated his influence over Marah. What! Suffer her now to go back to Cincinnati? Now to deprive himself of the enjoyment of the society of a being whose youth and ravishing beauty had all at once taken so strong a hold upon him? 
               His wicked heart laughed, and a smile of triumph shot from his eyes as his glance rested upon that splendid woman seated upon his knees. 
               "When will you be ready to leave the hotel," he said, after a pause, "and allow me to conduct you to your new home?" 
               "Whenever you wish, Clifford," she lisped in return. "Only not now. Stay with me a little while longer, for I feel so happy when I am with you." 
               "I do not intend to leave you now, Marah," he said smiling, "but I must send a note sometime this morning to the lady to prepare the house for our coming. I have promised her that I would give her timely notice." 
               "And are we to lodge in a private house? I am truly glad, Clifford, that you have been so considerate as to make preparations to get me out of this hotel. I do abhor hotels-you never feel for a moment as if you were at home. Is the lady you refer to a widow, Clifford?" 
               "She is, Marah." 
               "Do you remember her name?" 
               Clifford Vane smiled, as he answered: "Certainly, dearest. Her name is Mrs. Carrie Harrington: it is easily remembered." 
               "Has she children?" 
               "Only one. A daughter." 
               "I am so glad; I shall then have some one to speak to, and give me company, if you should tire of me, and keep late hours." 
             
             
               CHAPTER XI. 
               ON the following morning, Mr. Clifford Vane (while seated in the office of the hotel,) indited this letter: 
               
                   
                      
                         
                           
                              NEW YORK, August 28, 18-. 
                              Mr. IsaacKoltinzky:
                            
                           DEAR SIR-Your favor, dated the 23d inst., has duly come to hand, and, in reply, I regret to be compelled to state that, as regards Marah's departure for Cincinnati, I can not persuade myself to accede to your wish. Much as I would sacrifice in order to regain part of the esteem I have forfeited in your eyes, and happy as I would be in the presenting of an opportunity to show you my unselfish love and the willingness to serve you, I still can not so far forget my own interest, in a matter of so vital an importance to my future happiness, as to permit your daughter, who is in the greatest despair on account of my ill-success in propitiating you and her dear mother, to return to her home as long as I have reason to fear-and your esteemed note to me is of a nature to arouse the greatest apprehension-that you will use your almost irresistible influence in effectually alienating her affections from me. Were I, however, inclined to accede to your desire, and gave Marah permission to return home, I would still find it impossible to get her to undertake the journey until you had expressed your willingness to pardon her and your readiness to receive her in your arms once more. 
                           For your kindness in returning to me the papers, referred to in my last, permit me to tender you my heartfelt thanks, and no human being would have been happier than myself if the added check of $5,000, drawn in my favor, and your total silence in regard to myself, had not convinced me of your unwillingness to forget the past, as well as of your wrong impression as regards my personal character. Mr. Koltinzky! I do not wish your money, and therefore it will not be accepted. In appealing to you for pecuniary assistance, which my hasty departure made necessary, I was prompted by a sense of duty, and not by cupidity. A small sum would have sufficed until I could have made arrangement for a supply more legitimately obtained. Had I written to my friends in Cincinnati I might at once have been relieved of my embarrassment; but as it was Marah's as well as my own desire to keep this elopement a secret, I was of necessity forced to appeal to you. 
                           The money is at this moment in your daughter's hands, and will be returned to you as soon as you inform her of your and her dear mother's forgiveness, and give her permission to throw herself penitentially at your feet. 
                           It is her desire, dear sir, if you will receive her once more as your daughter, in order to allay suspicion, to make a short visit to a former schoolmate of hers, and who lives at Long Branch, before she returns home. I approve of it, as there are at present several families from Cincinnati sojourning there, among whom there will be no difficulty to find proper traveling companions to go West. You will therefore have the kindness to forward her her jewels and wardrobe to this place, in care of Adams' Express Company, as we intend changing our hotel to-day, and therefore are not able to give more definite directions. 
                           Before closing, I feel it my duty to inform you that the relations between your worthy daughter and myself are still as they were when I had the honor of visiting at your house, and they promise to remain so until your consent to our union can be obtained. "Sooner than to marry without my father's consent, I should deprive myself of life," were Marah's words when we took that hasty step, and they are Marah's words to-day. I will not tell you of all the misery she endures on account of the grief she must have occasioned to you and her dear mother, as it would simply cause you to become still more afflicted. Let us only hope that you will reach out your fatherly hand to her, and the sunshine will once more play upon her features, while I will labor to atone to you, as far as it is in my power to do so, for the many unhappy hours I must have occasioned you. 
                           With a sense of my unworthiness, and a desire to be kindly remembered by you for the sake of the daughter you love and who loves you almost to distraction, 
                           I have the liberty to sign, 
                           
                              With high esteem, 
                              CLIFFORD VANE.
                            
                         
                         
                           P. S.-Marah just informs me that she has already written to her friend of her intentions to pay her a visit at Long Branch.-Need I tell you that Marah, with tears in her eyes, begs me to express her heart's deepest love to you all? O, dear sir, do not disappoint her, for it would be her death. Let her go to her friend for a few weeks; it will be a relief to her. As for myself-as you will learn to know me better, I hope to gain in your estimation.-If you deem it advisable not to entrust Marah with the $5,000, as it is a great risk, I will, if you so order, return the greatest portion thereof in Exchange. Please notify me of your intentions by return mail. 
                           
                              C. V.
                            
                         
                      
                  
                
               "That's done," he said to himself, then folded the paper and placed it in an envelope addressed to Mr. Isaac Koltinzky, lighted a cigar and walked out into the street to mail the letter. Having relieved himself of this business, he remembered an appointment he had to fill that morning; and having supplied Marah with a late novel to pass away her time more pleasantly during his absence, he entered a street-car, in which he kept his seat until he had reached, far out in the west end, a narrow street, when he requested the conductor to let him alight. 
               After looking, as if perplexed, into the various directions the locality presented, for some time, he eventually went northward for something near three blocks, which brought him to another narrow street, which was, however, for cleaner than any of those he had passed, and the rows of neat little red brick houses on each side presented in his eyes by no means an unprepossessing appearance. Up that street he went a short distance before he stopped. In front of him stood a neat little cottage of red brick, freshly painted, and with green shutters for its windows. These shutters, notwithstanding the sultry weather, were one and all effectually closed, as if the house were unoccupied. But here Mr. Clifford Vane rang the bell, and while the servant bids him to enter, and then closes the door quickly behind him, we will turn our eyes upon a long signboard, of something like eight by two, that hung across the door, and upon which the following notice was painted in bold, heavy letters: 
               
                   
                      
                         
                           ASTROLOGY. 
                           MADAME HARRINGTON, the great and justly renowned astrologer, can be consulted on business, love, courtship and matrimony. Her advice is based on wholly scientific principles, and was never known to fail. The hand of fate has marked out the path of each individual, and the planets are hourly pointing out the destiny of mankind. Madame Harrington has a profound knowledge of the rules of the science of the stars, and can beat the world in the above science in regard to telling the past, present and future happiness or misery of one's whole life; and with several secrets that no living mortal ever knew before, she will bring success out of almost any undertaking. In causing speedy marriages, and bringing the separated together, she never fails. She describes the intended husband or wife, tells the very day you will marry, and shows a correct likeness of absent friends or future husband or wife. She describes your friends, points out your enemies, and warns you of all future danger. Good luck and prosperity through life to all who consult her. 
                           Madame Harrington is also a most successful female physician, and can be consulted almost at any hour during the day. Every thing strictly private and confidential. 
                         
                      
                  
                
               Mr. Vane had been led into a neat little parlor, where he soon was joined by the lady whose advertisement we have just made ourselves familiar with. She was a woman who had reached her forty-fifth year, but her appearance was that of five and thirty. Whatever fate had had in store for her during these sixteen years that had passed since she had left Cincinnati in the company of Reuben Armhold her whole presentment led one to suppose that if she had hardships to endure, they had not affected her physique. Her figure was full and elegantly rounded, and her face, that had always been fair and translucent, had lost nothing of its former beauty. She wore on this occasion a plain black dress that fitted close to her body, displaying to no poor advantage its natural grace and pliancy. After receiving and returning the customary salute, she sat down a short distance from her visitor, and raised her large blue eyes inquiringly-as if to ask, "What can I do for you?"-to his face. She scarcely ever received visitors who came not on business, and therefore she had assumed that patronizing air that might help to relieve such of a feeling of embarrassment whose innocence and simplicity had never yet stooped to consult such an oracle as herself. But as she gazed on Clifford Vane, calm and almost thoughtful as he returned that gaze, she knew that she had not to deal with innocence and simplicity this time. 
               "I have been here some days since, Mrs. Harrington," he commenced, while still her eyes were upon him, "in regard to making arrangements with you about boarding and lodging a lady and myself." 
               "O, yes," Mrs. Harrington interrupted, a smile curling her still pretty lips, as the had interview came once more to her memory. "I recollect you now, sir. You must excuse me for this seeming forgetfulness, since my profession brings me continually in contact with so many strange faces, that I find it difficult at times to remember them. How is the lady? I see you have not brought her along with you." 
               "The lady is well, Madame," he replied, "and still at the hotel. I did not deem it advisable to bring her here, as we have not yet come to an understanding. But the object of my present visit is to make arrangements for that purpose." Then, after a short pause-"I presume I need not ask you to consider the conversation we may hold here this morning confidential." 
               Mrs. Harrington smiled and said: "Such an admonition would indeed be superfluous." 
               "Very well. I may begin to explain myself then. The lady I desire to bring here must be looked upon as my wife and addressed as such. It matters little what our true relations are; the lady loves me dearly, and has for my sake left a home of wealth and comfort. I am willing to allow her, for the sacrifice she has made, to shield herself from reproach and disgrace under the title of wife! It is therefore necessary for you to remember this most important injunction, for I had to promise to take her to a respectable home where her sense of honor would not be wounded." 
               "I shall certainly act according to your instructions, and treat the lady with due respect," Mrs. Harrington replied. 
               "Very well, Madame," continued Mr. Vane, "so far we seem to understand ourselves. But I must ask of you something more-something, perhaps, to which you may not feel inclined to accede. It is simply this,"-and a smile lighted up his features-"you must relinquish your profession, must cease to be an astrologist-must take in that horrid signboard spread over your door, as the lady would sooner die than enter such an abode. She is, as I have told you before, a person extremely well connected, and has an unusually fine education. Fallen as she is, Madame, she possesses pride and dignity, which she could not so far forget as to make the house of an astrologist her home." 
               Mrs. Harrington grew scarlet. Mr. Vane had unwittingly outraged her own sense of honor. Astrologist as she was, and worse by far as she had been in times gone by, she had not yet fallen so low in her own estimation as to believe her house not to be quite good enough for a woman who had voluntarily left her own home to lead the life of a favorite. There had been hours in her checkered life when she remembered that she was a Harrington, and had mingled in the best society of the land-and she remembered it now. 
               "The lady you intend bringing here," she said, with a feeling of anger and mortification thrown into her voice, "were she even better than she is and not hold the position she does, will not lose either in her dignity or pride on account of my profession, which I not through choice but necessity had to adopt. I have seen the time when I would have laughed had one told me that I should become what I am now; let her thank her stars if she falls no lower." 
               She rose in anger, and moved toward the window, though the curtains were down and the shutters closed. Her fingers drummed a tune hastily on the glittering panes. Mr. Vane watched this proceeding with something like attention. At last a smile passed over his features-it was when Mrs. Harrington had left the window and was seated and looking at him-and he said: "I deeply regret the utterance of an expression that could have been misconstrued into an offense. I assure you nothing could have been further from my intentions than to wound your feelings. And yet-" and here he smiled still more-"the very anger you exhibited has shown me that if even nothing could be charged against your profession, you still feel yourself above it, and have only adopted it through necessity. Therefore let us not quarrel upon this point." 
               "No, no, we will not quarrel," said Mrs. Harrington, laughing. "But before proceeding further I am compelled to state that, much as I desire to have done with Astrology-for I have a daughter growing up now, and God knows how much I yearn to transplant her into a healthier and a purer atmosphere-it is the only means of support I have for myself and her. You can see now how impossible it is for me to accede to your wish." 
               She lowered her head so as to hide the tears that had meandered to her eyes. She was evidently moved, and had not yet totally lost all the feelings that adorn the female sex and keep a spark of purity awake in the mother's heart. 
               "Mrs. Harrington," and Mr. Vane's voice grew lower and far more respectful, "the sentiment you have just uttered in regard to your daughter and her welfare has awakened for you in my heart a feeling of esteem, and a desire, free and untainted by any selfish motive, to make you less dependent than you have been. I do not say it boastful, but I am in a condition to be able to raise you to a position your motherly feelings entitle you to. I have some means, Mrs. Harrington; and being an old bachelor as you see, with enough sins on my back to keep me beyond the pale of heavenly grace, I do not know that it would do me much harm to do you a little good." Here he smiled and tried to be more affable. "You can depend on my assistance in the future, and all I shall require of you is kind treatment for Mrs. Vane and myself. Do we understand ourselves now?" 
               As some time elapsed, and still he had no answer, Mr. Vane rose from his chair and approached a few steps nearer, and as he did so, he discovered that the lady was in tears. 
               "I trust I have not offended you again?" he said, coming still nearer. 
               "No, no, Mr. Vane," she replied, raising her tear-filled eyes to his face, "it is not for that I weep. You cannot know how happy you have made me by your promise. A woman who has none to take care of her in this world has so much to endure, and I have no one in this whole land who would do any thing for me. I know I have to blame myself for all I have had to suffer, for I was not as good as I should have been. But now I have a daughter-O, she is such a good, innocent little thing-she knows not how bad I have been, how bad I am still-and the only thing I ever prayed for, when I could get myself to pray, was that she would never find out my own wickedness, and that I could place her beyond the reach of temptation, and save her from the sad fate that is her mother's. I will do any thing for you and for the lady that you bring with you, so you be good and well-meaning to my tender baby." 
               "Fear not, Madame, for the future. I have told you that I want to do one good thing in my life. I shall do it with you. You may safely remove your sign-board and burn it for kindling, as you will no longer require it. It is true we have not yet agreed upon terms, and all I have to say at present is that you must consider me your banker. Draw upon me whenever you like; but as you may be somewhat bashful at the start, I shall advance you a small sum to begin with." 
               "No, no, Mr. Vane, I thank you," she interposed, rising from her chair and laying her beautiful white hands-beautiful as those of a young girl-upon his arm to prevent him from opening a port-monnaie he had drawn from his pocket. "I must not accept any thing now. Thank you. I am not quite without means. I have of late years lived very economical, and laid up something for rainy days. You see I would not have my daughter suffer, if I had to starve. So I saved some money." 
               "I insist upon you, Mrs. Harrington," Mr. Vane replied, "to suffer me to advance you one hundred dollars. It is a small sum, and will require but little time to spend it in. I know you will have to purchase several things yet for the house for my benefit and for that of the lady I bring with me, and why should I permit you to defray expenses incurred to insure our comfort? No, think not of it, Mrs. Harrington, for I shall not suffer it." 
               "Mr. Vane," she said, "I will take this money, but I shall keep an account of it. Now tell me when I am to expect you to come?" 
               "Not before to-morrow. From Mrs. Vane I want you to conceal, as successfully as possible, this business-this Astrology-humbug-you were engaged in." 
               "I promise you this most faithfully," she replied, and taking his hands in hers, looked tenderly into his eyes, and added: "And will you promise me something in return?" 
               "What is it, Madame?" 
               Mr. Vane smiled. 
               "Will you promise?" still more pleadingly. 
               "Yes. What is it?" 
               "And you will not be angry?" this coaxingly. 
               "And not be angry," he replied. 
               "Then please remember at all times, that however wicked the mother, the daughter is an innocent, harmless child, who knows nothing of wrong, and who should never discover your true relation with the lady you bring with you. Spare her from any scenes that may taint the purity of her innocent soul, and let your actions and speech be guarded in her presence. Have I asked too much?" 
               "You have asked nothing more than I am willing to promise upon my honor. Your daughter shall receive my special care." 
               "Thank you." 
               So, after a few other remarks in reference to some purchases of furniture, etc., Mr. Vane finally took his leave; and as he retraced his steps down the narrow street, he smiled and muttered to himself: "That woman is a splendid creature. By George! I have tasted sourer apples, and thought them delicious!" 
             
             
               CHAPTER XII. 
               THROWING SAND IN THE EYES. 
               MARAH was still engaged in reading, when a gentle tap at her chamber door caused her to look up from her book, and before she had time to say "enter," heard the knob slowly turn and Mr. Vane came in with a beaming face. 
               "O, how you have frightened me, Clifford!" she said, feigning to be angry at this show of punctiliousness, and she laid the book aside, and with a joy that danced in her laughing eyes and on her mouth, hastened across the room to meet him. 
               "And have I really frightened you, my dove?" he answered, twining his arm around her beautiful waist, and leading her back to a seat upon a divan. "Monster that I was; I do deserve a punishment for so great a crime." 
               "You do, indeed, Clifford," she said, laughing, as he sat down by her side, "but as you are so good to me, and as an excess of politeness, if not studied, is far more pardonable than a want of it, I shall forgive you for this once, with the hope never more to have occasion to complain." 
               She laughed a low, musical, silvery laugh, and raised her little, soft hand, as if in warning, to his face. 
               "I promise you, dearest, to observe more closely this injunction in the future," Mr. Vane replied, imprisoning one of her hands between his own, "and to give you no more occasion for complaint on that score. Yet the blame of this my offense, if you permit me to say so, is more to be attributed to your desire to have me attend most closely to the nicest and exactest rules and forms of behavior and ceremony in my intercourse with you, than to my own inclinations or particular love for punctilios. Do you not remember what you have told me yesterday?" 
               Marah blushed to her temples, and modestly turned her eyes away from his fascinating and wickedly-fiery glance. "Why should I have forgotten so soon what I have so seriously enjoined upon you?" she replied, still with an averted face, and her voice scarcely above a whisper. "But their is a wide difference between being polite and over-polite. I never desired to impress you with the belief that you should be over-nice, and run from one extreme into the other. You know I had occasion to be angry with you yesterday." 
               "Dearest, dearest Marah," he said, drawing closer to her side, and rapturously raising her half-unwilling hand to his lips, "if I have offended you yesterday with my conduct, if my behavior has been more loving than mannerly, if my heart has sent the hot blood thrilling and tickling through my veins, and made me forget for a moment to keep the shackles on my passions which your beauty, youth and grace awoke in my bosom, remember that I am a man of health, in the prime of life, with an unconquerable love for the beautiful-that I am your husband, your protector, your slave, Marah, and you will think less harshly of my conduct, and once more accept me in your grace." 
               "You know that I am no longer angry with you," she replied in a low voice, suffering him to dandle with her hands and arms, "and that I forgave you your strange and unseasonable conduct." 
               "I fear, Marah, you are still angry with me. You are so cold and reserved to me, and"-this how sweet and tenderly!-"I love you so much." 
               He saw, while her eyes were still cast groundward, how his words had affected her, and a smile, wicked as it was dazzling, passed over his handsome features as he thought of the spell he had so successfully thrown around this noble woman. It was a conquest that made him feel proud and vain, and fed the demon-spirit in his heart. 
               He waited a moment, and, as no answer came, repeated, throwing as much soul into the words as he could, "I love you so much." 
               She raised her head slowly, and gradually her soft, gray eyes met his. What a picture! Never in his life had he seen her look so beautiful. Her lovely face was still robed in blushes, wearing a mingled expression of desire and coyness. Her rosy lips quivered, her beautiful Grecian nose gently dilated, her long, dark-fringed lashes hung modestly over her eyes, which beneath some tears, seemed to melt away in their sockets, while her bosom, strangely agitated, swelled to her lovely throat. Mr. Vane, never as much as for a second permitted his eyes to turn away from hers; and while he thus, like the snake the bird, threw an irresistible charm around his victim, he raised her trembling hand to his lips, and smothered it with kisses. 
               At this she showed signs of anger, and blushed still redder than before. "You know," she said with some force, trying to release her hand, "that I do not like you to be so demonstrative." 
               "I see that you are still angry with me, dearest," he said, most lovingly. "Am I not your husband, and are you not my lawful wife in the eyes of God and man? Why, then, should I not give free play to those feelings which set my very soul in ecstacy?" 
               "Because I like them to be more lasting and less violent. These strange outbursts-" 
               "You have not yet forgiven me." 
               "I have, Clifford. You know that I have." 
               "Then let your actions testify to your words." 
               "How am I to understand you?" 
               "How? I will tell you how," and Clifford Vane twined his arm around her pliant waist. "Be more affectionate, Marah, and suffer me to be more so too, and I shall believe that you have pardoned me." 
               "Am I not affectionate to you?" she replied, raising her head, and once more gazing into his impassioned eyes. "Are you not my all in this wide world, in whom I trust and whom I love? Why should you doubt me, then?" 
               "It is not I who doubts, dearest; it is you." 
               "I doubt, Clifford? Doubt you?" 
               "If not, and you truly love me, as I believe you do, dearest, then do not repulse my advances with such coldness. You know that I am your slave-shall be so while I have breath." 
               He pressed her closer to his bosom, and, while her head fell upon his shoulder, giving her a chance to hide her blushes and agitation, he whispered words of love into her willing ears, and made her impatient heart go throbbing with unexpressed joy. 
               "I have completed all the arrangements with Mrs. Harrington, dearest," he continued, placing Marah on his knee, and gently stroking her glossy blue-black hair, "and much trouble had I, too, to come to an understanding. Would you believe, dearest, that after I had told her of your former position in society-how well you had been raised, and how much you had sacrificed for me-she fell in tears and positively refused to stand by her bargain and accept us as boarders and inmates of her house?" Here Mr. Vane paused, as if in expectation of some show of curiosity on the part of Marah; but discovering the latter disinclined to interrupt him in his recital, he continued, while he gently looked down upon the languishing beauty resting on his bosom: "She insisted that her house was not good enough for such as we; that she was poor and without friends to recommend her to us. I told her, then, to console her, that poverty was no shame and no crime, and that she need to have no apprehensions on that account; that my wife would not esteem her the less for it, to the contrary, that she would take pleasure to make her forget her poverty. To which she replied, sadly shaking her head, and bitter tears running down her face, that you would feel lonesome and lost at her house, inasmuch as she and her daughter never received visitors, and led rather a secluded life between them, while you were accustomed to mingle with the world and delighted to participate in the pleasures the youthful and inconsiderate resort to, which she had long since given up, having made peace with her Maker, and shunned the temptations which they held out. The good woman, though she is still in the prime of her life, seems to have done with all the foibles of her sex, and has her mind turned only upon heavenly things. It pleased me extremely to have found her so exemplary a woman, and therefore was not slow to assure her that you, my dearest, would love her the more for her pious inclinations, and that you would try not only to be a companion but a friend. But even then Mrs. Harrington insisted upon her first resolution, and, amid tears-the poor woman actually shed tears again-begged me to excuse her for refusing to receive us as lodgers at her house, as she felt confident she would only court our displeasure at doing otherwise. I asked for an explanation-told her that I had a right to hear her reasons for changing her mind since she had once expressed her willingness to receive us, and we had prepared ourselves to leave the hotel at once, as you, my dearest,"-and here he pressed Marah still closer to his bosom-"were tired of hotel life, and could scarcely await the moment when you could retire to your new lodging. To which she replied, after telling me part of the wretched life she had led since her husband's death, and how she had had to struggle-a poor, lonely woman-with adversity and poverty-why her house was not good enough:-her reduced circumstances, she said, had forced her to adopt a profession which she herself abhorred, but was the only one by which she could obtain food for herself and child. It was that of an astrologist, and for some time she had practiced upon the credulity of the simple-minded, taking pains, however, to send all those who consulted her home with happiness radiating in their faces. Though she had now given up that practice, and lived retired, seeking no other comfort and companionship that her child's, she still thought it her duty to inform me, without any reserve on her part, why she, after hearing of me how good a lady you were, refused to stand by the agreement she had made. Marah, my dearest,"-Clifford Vane pressing a passionate kiss upon her lips-"this recital-how could it otherwise than move me to pity? So honest, so simple-minded, so considerate a woman I did not think could be found were we to look from one end of New York city to the other. And I was not slow to express myself to her to that effect, and assured her, with all sincerity, for I know your warm heart, my dearest, that the knowledge of her trials and tribulations would make her a worthy object for your love and sympathy; that I insisted, in your name, as well as my own, upon our previous contract, and I would promise her, upon my honor, that you should never hint to her, as regards the profession, she had been forced to practice, a word that might be construed into an offense by the most sensitive. At this, seeing that I was serious, she began to yield, with some reluctance, however, and promised, since I insisted upon the contract, to make the house ready for us, so we might be able to take up our rooms by tomorrow if we so liked. And now, my dearest, look up, and tell me whether I have done right to contract for these lodgings at this honest and unfortunate widow's?" 
               Marah raised herself from a recumbent to a sitting posture, and looked for a moment silently at Mr. Vane's noble, manly face. When she spoke it was as follows: 
               "Clifford, my Clifford,"-this with a tenderness that rang in her sweet voice, and shone from her soft gray eyes-"what else can I do but express my admiration for the considerateness you have been pleased to show this unfortunate Mrs. Harrington, as well as my thanks for the pains you have taken to find a good, quiet home for your wife. You may rest easy that I shall study to avoid any thing that might wound the lady's feelings. If her profession-though I know so little of it-has been a dishonorable one, she is that much more to be pitied for the great sacrifice of feelings she must have made when she found herself compelled to resort to it. I can sympathize with the lady, and only regret that we are at present in no position to relieve her of her share of pecuniary troubles." 
               "Marah," Clifford replied, "Mrs. Harrington is in no actual want, and with the sum I mean to pay her weekly, she will be able to indulge even in luxuries." 
               "I am glad to hear it, and now I have only one more prayer, Clifford," and she raised her large gray eyes, softened by tears, to his face, "and that is my dear, good, old parents' forgiveness for the grief I must have occasioned them." 
               She concealed her face in her cambric handkerchief. Clifford appeared to be moved by this show of grief, and attempted to console her with promises to spare no efforts to conciliate her parents. Seeing that she could not control the sad emotions that swayed her heart, he resorted to other means for the purpose of silencing them. He began to fondle her, but with a delicateness that was calculated to soothe her troubled spirit. He repeated, in half-suppressed whispers, his vows of love, that he would ever be true and faithful to her, that he should not only be a husband but a father to her, that he would be her slave forever. He also told her that he had written to her father, and expected an answer in a few days, and he felt sure the appeal for pardon would sooner or later be obtained, then all would be happy once more, and all tribulation would be at an end. 
               Thus spoken to, in a voice of the greatest tenderness, he eventually succeeded to infuse her with hope, and soon Marah, her head fondly reclining on his bosom, was once more restored to joyfulness, and with smiles chasing each other upon her soft, olive cheeks, forgot the cause of her dejection, and listened, little dreaming of what misery there was in store for her, to the many plans he had laid out for their future career. 
               And all the while poor Marah looked at Clifford's face with eyes of love and confidence, unsuspecting of the mischief lurking in his corrupted heart. 
             
             
               CHAPTER XIII. 
               RESOLVED TO GO. 
               MR. CLIFFORD VANE had mailed the letter for Mr. Koltinzky on the 28th of August; on the 30th of the same month it reached its destination. It was still early in the morning-between eight and nine-when Mr. Koltinzky was seen coming toward the house in something more than his usual haste, and his wife, who was just standing at the door, saw that he was the bearer of some news. 
               "What's the matter, Isaac?" the poor little woman said, her heart throbbing with a feeling of uneasiness. "Why do you come home so soon?" 
               "I have a letter, Leah; come, let's go in the room. 'Tis from him." 
               They hurried back into their sitting-room; but long before they had reached it Leah had been told of its contents, yet, after her husband had seated himself by her side, she insisted upon hearing the letter read. He satisfied her, and now, the note laid aside, husband and wife, as if by mutual agreement, remained silent and looked at each other. 
               It was a painful, thoughtful suspense for both. 
               "What shall be done?" old Isaac said, after a short pause. 
               "O, my Marah! Marah!" 
               "Leah, I hope you will come to reason once and stop this crying. You know it will not help us any. How can you expect me to be calm and cool, and correct in judgment, as long as I see you sitting here, right before my eyes, moaning and sobbing? It disconcerts me, Leah; please have a little control over your feelings-I think our daughter will soon be with us again. The worst I apprehended, thank God, I have been spared from. Marah is not married; Marah is still free, and the belief I have in her virtue assures me of her uncorruptibility-her chastity. Let us be calm, and reflect now what it would be best to do under the present circumstances. On one thing I am determined. Marah must leave, as soon as possible, this man's society. She must be removed from his temptations. She sees, and so does he now, the enormity of their offence. I have no doubt her strong sense of virtue and propriety was her protector, and saved her from his wiles. I am more than ever convinced that the rogue did not mean it honestly with her. I wish she were already out of his clutches-so long as she is near him she is in danger." 
               He rose from his chair and moved-his head lowered and arms meeting behind-across the room. Leah was still weeping, and now and then her husband paused and looked at her with commisseration. 
               "You will persist in this way, Leah," he said, full of sadness, "until you get sick and break down entirely. Have I not enough troubles already without this fear continually hovering before my mind?" 
               "O, Isaac, Isaac, I can not help it," sobbed the old woman, "when I think how our child must be suffering I can not restrain myself. The tears will rise to my eyes-they will, Isaac." 
               Mr. Koltinzky was greatly moved, but took pains to conceal it. 
               "Marah will soon be with us, Leah," he said, calmly. "Let this be our consolation. I told you the worst I had apprehended, thank God, we have been spared from. You have heard the letter read. Marah is not married, 'sooner than marry without my father's consent, I should deprive myself of life,' were her words, and I have so much faith in them, that I would not hesitate to pledge my own honor that she will not waver from her purpose. Let us, therefore, cheer up, and think about rescuing our daughter. Time is precious, Marah; let us make good use of it." 
               Leah became more consoled, and dried her eyes. 
               "What can be done?" she inquired. 
               "Do you think it advisable to send Marah her wardrobe and jewels? Or shall I order her home at once?" 
                
               The old lady reflected a moment, then replied: 
               "I tell you, Isaac, I would not send her her jewels or her wardrobe. Let her come home, I don't want her to go to Long Branch." 
               "Why?" 
               "I don't know. I don't feel satisfied that we are doing right. Let her come home-come home to us, and God knows how willingly I would forgive her all the sorrows she has been giving me, if she would only come home again." 
               Mr. Koltinzky stepped across the floor, as if undecided what to do. He debated with himself for sometime; at length he stopped in the center of the room, and picking up Clifford Vane's letter and placing it in his pocket, said: "I think I will not answer this letter." 
               "What then?" 
               "I will go after her myself, and bring this matter to a crisis." 
               "I think, myself, Isaac," replied Leah, approvingly, "that if you were to go after Marah yourself, and were to remove her from this scoundrel's influence-I cannot, try as I will, persuade myself of his sincerity in the promises he holds out to us in his letter-you would be certain to bring the matter to a crisis, and be in a position to take Marah once more under your immediate protection." 
               To Leah's astonishment, her husband kept silent to this remark. He was thoughtfully, with his hands meeting behind, and his head inclined, pacing the floor. A moment or two later he stopped in his walk and, raising his face, turned toward her and said: 
               "It won't do, Leah-I can't go to New York." 
               "Why can't you go to New York, Isaac? What do you mean? Have you yourself not proposed going? Tell me, Isaac, why this sudden change?" 
               "Because, after due reflection, I have come to think the conclusion I had arrived at not calculated to produce the effect we so much desire. It is very easy for me to say that I will go to New York, and I presume the journey itself would not be attended with inconveniences that I might not easily bear. But what, I ask you, would be the gain, to find myself placed in that large city, without my having the slightest cue of Marah's residence? New York is a great world in itself; and for one stranger to look there for another stranger, and that stranger perhaps inclined to keep his residence a secret, is an undertaking, taking every thing into consideration, the folly of attempting it must press itself upon one's mind in the first moment of cool reflection. Clifford Vane evidently desires not to see me; more than that, he even does not want me to know the name of the hotel in which they have had, and in which they were going to have, lodging. It would, therefore, be a fool's errand to go to New York, with no better prospect of meeting them than circumstances are holding out to me. I know not but what it would be best to comply with his request, and send Marah's effects as directed in his letter. He evidently wants to get rid of her; and in so doing (perhaps the wretch is pricked with a sense of remorse for the innocent girl he has so shamefully decoyed away from home), would like to spare her from an exposure that might follow were Marah, just fresh from the scene of her indiscreet movements, to come home, still suffering, outwardly as well as inwardly, from the false step she had taken. This might be one of the reasons why he would like to see our daughter undertake a journey to Long Branch. When a villain finds himself foiled in his wicked intents-and Marah's sense of honor undoubtedly checked his-he changes his tactics and feigns, in proportion to the villainy he had contemplated, a feeling of regret and magnanimity. But be this his intention or not, one thing is evident, and that is, my going to New York will not bring Marah under the wings of my protection. Clifford Vane does not wish to see me; and if his sense of shame for what his heart must accuse him, equals my feeling of utter disgust for his character, he would sooner hide himself in the darkest cave than show his guilty face before the man whose hospitality he had so shamefully abused. Therefore, I know of nothing better than to comply with his request and send on Marah's effects at once." 
               He sat down on his easy chair and turned his eyes toward the window overlooking the park. His thin, bony fingers were nervously drumming a tune on the arms of his chair, and something like a sigh fell from his lips. Now and then he would shake his head, as one when debating some sad alternatives in his mind, from which, turn he in favor of either, little comfort could be drawn at best. 
               "Isaac!" 
               He moved around sharp. It was his wife who had called his name. He turned his careworn face toward hers, which had a no less sad, but, at that moment, a far more determined look. 
               "You shan't send those things," she added, looking her husband full in the eyes. 
               He returned that look, then heaved a sigh, and his fingers once more twitched and moved nervously. But he answered not. He was evidently not satisfied-not quite pleased with the idea-to send, though he had himself proposed it, Marah's effects to New York. Once more he shook his head, then passed his little hand across his wrinkled forehead and through his short, grayish hair. 
               Another and another long, painful breath, then-"Why?" 
               "Because." 
               This was said with a determinateness that seemed to be not totally free from a womanish, wayward spite. 
               "Because why?" 
               "Because it just looks to me," continued Leah, painfully struggling to keep the tears down, "as if that miserable wretch only wants to get hold of Marah's valuables and nothing more. I don't believe a word of all his professions of remorse. God knows what has become of our Marah! Why does not she write to us? O, God! O, God!" and once more the poor old woman's wrinkled hands hid from view a face bathed in tears. Now her exclamations of sorrow became louder and louder, and she rocked herself to and fro as if the burthen of her grief was too heavy for her half-broken heart to bear. 
               Mr. Koltinzky did not attempt, as he had done on previous occasions, to offer her consolation. He simply rose from his chair and moved, with palpable uneasiness, from one end of the room to the other. Though he wept not, his heart was no less oppressed than that of his wife, and felt the blow even far more severely on account of suffering his griefs to find no outlet. His step, as he slowly moved along, was uncertain, and frequently he stopped, a picture of overwhelming perplexity. "Leah," he said at last, however, advancing to where she sat, her face still buried in her hands, "I will take your advice, and not send our Marah's effects to New York, but will, instead of it, write a letter to Mr. Vane, to which, if he be honestly inclined, he must answer in a manner that further dealings with him will prove unnecessary. Therefore be composed, and go among the servants. They will miss you, and, knowing that you have no visitors just now, suspect something. So go about your business, Leah, and put on a look of unconcern, else your face will betray what, when once a cue is given, can only end in an exposure I would give all my wealth to prevent. I shall remain here, and write the letter, and after I have finished it, will call you in and let you read it." 
               Poor Leah wiped her eyes, and after advancing several ideas about what her husband should take in consideration in writing this letter, she retired from the room to mingle among the servants, and to act with them as if her heart were as light as it was before her own dear child had been decoyed from home. 
               What a task for a woman of her age! Not only to suffer tortures on account of her griefs and uneasiness, but also to wear a smiling face and play a part-and such a part, too-in this, her old age.--"God! how am I to endure it!" she thought, and a heavy tear-drop fell inward-upon her heart. 
               Mr. Koltinzky, now alone, gave way to a feeling he had successfully striven to keep back in the presence of his wife, and tears trickled down his sunken cheeks. Hope had deserted him; and though he struggled to keep down that feeling of despair that was gradually filling his soul, that terrible thought that "he was childless," pressed itself upon his mind and almost unseated his reason. Thus, racked in body and mind, he sat down to the table to write a reply to the letter from which he expected so satisfactory a result. 
             
             
               CHAPTER XIV. 
               FAIR AND FOUL. 
               ON the morning after his interview with Mrs. Harrington, Clifford Vane and Marah left the accommodations of the hotel for those of their new lodgings. As the distance was great they had concluded to take a carriage, which no sooner had driven up to the house than the front door was opened, and out stepped upon the pavement Mrs. Harrington herself, dressed, as she had been on the occasion of Mr. Vane's last visit, in a plain black gown that fitted close to her body, and, receiving Marah in her arms as the latter alighted from the carriage, greeted her with a becoming show of warmth and condescension free of the least exhibition of uncalled for servility. This pleased Marah, and her reply was of a nature to assure Mrs. Harrington that her first appearance had left, as the latter had desired it should leave, a very favorable impression upon her lodger's mind. Mr. Vane saw, with a sense of satisfaction, the pleasure both ladies found in one another, and only hoped that no untoward circumstances should become the means to change their present feelings. Having by this time discharged the driver, Mr. Vane as well as the ladies retired into the house, and in less than half an hour the new lodgers found themselves alone, in one of the neat little rooms prepared for their reception. 
               "Well, Marah," Clifford Vane commenced, seating himself by her side and taking her left hand between his own, "how are you pleased with the appearance of your new home and the hostess presiding over it?" 
               "I am much pleased with it," she replied, artlessly, looking fondly into his eyes; "and hope, after I am a little better acquainted with Mrs. Harrington-isn't she a pleasant lady though; I'm sure I shall learn to love her-to feel quite happy here." 
               "She is a pleasant lady, dearest, and I doubt not but that she will make it her constant study to increase your comforts and enhance your pleasures. You have seen that she still wears black, though, as I understand, she has been a widow for these last fifteen years. The poor lady must have had a hard time to battle single-handed with the world. I am truly glad that we have been so fortunate as to find her out. We have now a home, and who is happier than I?" 
               He twined his arm around her waist and passionately pressed her to his heart. Marah, who loved him almost to distraction, yielded only half reluctantly to his caresses, and, but for the thought of her parents' grief protruding upon her mind, would have considered herself the happiest mortal allowed to drink from the sweet fountain of conjugal love. But that thought would remain awake and come, like some dark shadow, across the heaven of her own, otherwise perfected, happiness. 
               "O, Clifford," she said, her head reclining on his breast, "how happy would I be here, seated by your side as I am now, and allowed to look into your handsome face and eyes and call you mine-forever mine-if my father had but sanctioned our union and not denied us his blessing. But, Clifford, Clifford, as it is, the thought of my disobodience to the best of parents will mar and allay my greatest joy. Do I what I will, the upbraidings of my conscience for the grief I, so undutiful a daughter, must have occasioned, and still am occasioning, my parents-my good, kind old parents-will ever keep remorse-the liveliest of remorse-awake within my heart. Could I get them to overlook my trespass, and receive us as their children, who, on this wide, wide world would be happier than I?" 
               "Your parents," Mr. Vane replied, "love you too well for their anger to live long. Rest easy, dearest; when the wound their pride must have received on account of a marriage they imagined to have reason to disapprove of is healed, the love they bear their child will come to your rescue and be the means of effecting a reconciliation." 
               "O, would to God that time had already arrived!" she exclaimed, fervently, her soft gray eyes raised heavenward; "for the consciousness that my parents, who have ever been all kindness to me-as I was the pride, hope and joy of their old and honored age-suffer, and that greatly and continually, on my account, and that I can not lessen it, embitters my life, and will breed a cankering worm, to gnaw upon me forever, in my heart. Clifford, if I hear not of them by this day's or to-morrow's mail-I-I-I go back to them and throw myself at their feet for their pardon. I have concealed my feelings long enough from you-Clifford, Clifford, I am but a child help me, help me, to win my father's pardon and his love, or, I fear, I shall go mad." 
               "You should not have gone away with me, Marah," he replied, "if you had the least thought that my love would not, in a great measure, fill the vacuum occasioned by the vacancy of your parents'." 
               "O, do not you reproach me thus," she said, feeling the bitterness of his taunting words, "else I shall despair of ever enjoying life again. You know that I love you as woman never loved man before, and that I would not be worthy of the blessing to be loved by you were I to value my injured parents' affections but lightly." 
               "Then grieve not thus, my dear, and remember that your parents' sorrows are only imaginary, and can be removed at their will. You have been guilty of an act of disobedience, it is true; but ask your own heart, whether they did not invite this act by their persistent refusal of admitting my claim to the hand of the lady whose heart I had won. I have since written to them, with a humiliation that on any other occasion, and for any other purpose than to conciliate them, would have been an act of vile servility on my part, to forget the past that could not be recalled, were such a move desirable or even desired; to overlook a transgression nothing but our love for each other can justify; to permit us to throw ourselves at their feet so we might have an opportunity, so eagerly sought by us, to assure them both of our repentance and our love. To this they have not yet been pleased to send a reply; but I feel confident that our penitence must have assuaged their grief and been the cause, though we are still unapprised of its effects, of subsiding, in a great measure, their unjustly raised anger." 
               "And do you really think they will ever forgive me?" 
               "Why should they not, dearest?" Clifford replied, smiling. "Look at our behavior from any view you please, and you must arrive at the conclusion that our offence was not a great one, and that the greatest part of the storm it raised has been safely weathered by us. An elopement! What is an elopement after all but a proof that there are obstacles toward a certain consummation on one side, and a determination on the other to prevent it? We have overcome those obstacles, and let us thank heaven, my dearest, that we have nothing else to reproach ourselves for." 
               "You are so good, Clifford mine," Marah replied, rapturously looking up at the handsome face inclining over her, "that I could only wish my dear father could hear you, and, as he is good and noble himself, his heart would relent and be proud of his son." 
               He pressed her closer to his bosom and whispered sweet nonsense, which now and then was the occasion to spread a blush over her lovely face and swell her bosom, moved by pleasing sensations, to her handsome throat, to her willing ears. Thus hour after hour, in sweet caresses and soft embraces, the loving pair let time pass by, and they drank of the cup of bliss, growing thirstier and thirstier from the sweet draughts they drank, until they threw themselves, panting, upon the Lethean waves to bless them with a sense of sweet forgetfulness. 
               A low rap at the door put an end to their ecstatic dalliance, and Mr. Vane, gently lifting the love-overcome Marah from his lap, hastened to the door to see who it was that had rapped, and what was wanted. 
               It was simply the servant, who announced that luncheon was ready. 
               "We shall be down presently," Mr. Vane replied; then, after closing the door, returned to the side of Marah, telling her to prepare herself for going down to take some luncheon with him. 
             
             
               CHAPTER XV. 
               ADELAIDE HARRINGTON. 
               WHILE they were still sitting-Mr. and Mrs. Vane and Mrs. Harrington-around the table, partaking of the delicacies of the season, a bell, weak of sound, announced some stranger at the door. Clifford Vane changed color and showed other symptoms of uneasiness, but, as his eyes met those of his hostess all tranquil, and saw her face wreathed in smiles, he regained his composure and appeared as if he had not heard the summons. A moment later the door opened noiselessly, and on the threshold, without stepping into the room, stopped, as if taken by surprise, a youthful figure, toward which the eyes of both the new lodgers were for some time riveted. Mrs. Harrington silently watched the effect thus produced by her daughter's unexpected appearance. Adelaide was a girl of fifteen summers, tall and slenderly grown, with hair and eyes black, but far more glossy than the raven's wing. Her complexion was as fair as the clearest wax, and the paleness of her cheeks, thin and delicately moulded as they were, was but poorly relieved by a faint tinge of red, that rather indicated ill than good health. Her features were small and delicately chiseled, wearing an expression of simplicity and refinement, with a becoming unconsciousness of its superior attractiveness. She was dressed, on this occasion, in a plain white muslin gown, over which she wore a small sack of light blue delaine, and on her head sat a broad-brimmed but neatly-trimmed gipsy-hat, while on her arm swung a reticule containing several books. She had evidently just returned from school, and, though she had been apprised of the intention of strangers to come during the day, she had not expected to meet them so unexpectedly on her return. She did not feel in the least disconcerted, but, in her artlessness, met the glances of Mr. and Mrs. Vane without the least show of embarrassment. Her eyes met theirs boldly, and before her mother, who had on purpose remained silent, uttered a syllable, she had entered the room, and smilingly, and full of confidence, approached Marah, as if to express her happiness at meeting her. 
               "This is my daughter, Mrs. Vane," Mrs. Harrington now said, with a feeling of motherly pride. "Adelaide, take off your hat and lay down your books, then come in and have luncheon with us." 
               The girl, after being introduced to Clifford by Marah, and having exchanged a few unmeaning compliments with him, went over to receive her mother's kiss, then danced out of the room, promising to be back instantly. 
               After she was gone, Marah expressed herself delighted at finding so prepossessing a sweet creature in her hostess's daughter, and hoped that they would learn to like one another much, to which Mrs. Harrington was pleased to answer that "Adelaide was still young, and therefore, owing to her childishness, little calculated to interest so educated a lady as she had been informed she had the honor to lodge, but hoped that the efforts of her daughter as well as her own to please her would not be altogether ineffectual." 
               While the two ladies were thus discussing subjects similar to the one just quoted, Mr. Vane was thinking of Mrs. Harrington's request in favor of her daughter, and now only was astonished that so beautiful a flower should have been seen so long by broad daylight, and that in the city of New York, without having been tainted by the contaminating touch of vice. 
               Just then the door opened again, and in stepped, like a lovely fairy, that sweet creature. Her sack had been removed, and now, for the first time, Clifford discovered in the beautiful contour of her gracefully turned neck and rounded shoulders, and in the palpable development of her bust, that Adelaide was strongly merging into blooming womanhood. He told her to seat herself by the side of his wife, in order to give the former an opportunity, which was not lost, to cultivate her acquaintance better. Adelaide was not shy, and with a smile upon her face, accepted of the invitation, and soon Mr. Vane succeeded, as he always could when it was his interest or desire to do so, to enlist the interest of all by his liveliness, wit, and great store of knowledge. Marah was particularly pleased with him on this occasion, and knew not how better to show her approbation than by seconding his efforts with a readiness the pale-faced maiden, sitting by her side, rewarded by the greatest attention and a show of undisguised pleasure. 
               Had she been able to read the future--able to read what was just passing through Mr. Vain's mind-what, O, what would have been her thoughts! 
             
             
               CHAPTER XVI. 
               THE PLOT IS THICKENING. 
               ON the 4th of September, Mr. Koltinzky's reply was handed, by the post-office clerk, to Mr. Clifford Vane. He did not open the letter right there, however; he only gazed upon the superscription for a moment, then placed it in his side-pocket and sauntered out into the street. The weather being rather unfavorable, as a drizzling rain was slowly piercing through the misty atmosphere, he hailed a 'bus and rode down Broadway as far as to the St. Nicholas, when he got out. Here he lighted a cigar, walked into the office, when, after he had comfortably seated himself close to a table, he took the letter he had received from out his pocket, and began to read it. It ran as follows: 
               
                   
                      
                         
                           
                              CINCINNATI, August 30, 18-. 
                              Mr. Clifford Vane:
                            
                           I regret deeply, far more than I can express in words or you can conceive in your mind-for if you could you would not have had the heart to give occasion for it-the necessity to inform you of the bitter disappointment both my unhappy wife, as well as my own self, have felt in receiving your letter, as we had prayed for the arrival of our disobedient, but on that account no less loved, daughter. But I must confess to you, great as our disappointment was, it would have been far greater had we placed strong hopes in being permitted early to enjoy the consummation of what we so ardently had prayed for. Your letter, therefore, did not afford us the pleasure it might have done had our Marah been the harbinger of it herself. And yet we are under great obligations to you for having broken our suspense even by this means, and, though what you have been pleased to write to us is by no means to our liking, it is still a relief to us that you have written at all. You inform us that you could not persuade yourself to comply with my request in permitting Marah to take her departure for Cincinnati, though in the same paragraph, almost in the same sentence that gives us this information, you add an expression of your readiness to sacrifice any thing in order to regain part of the esteem you charge yourself of having lost in my eyes. Believing you entirely sincere in your desire to gain my good favor, I can not clearly understand why you should have refused to avail yourself of an opportunity by which you could have given me an incontrovertible proof of your sincerity. Had you permitted Marah to return to her rightful home, especially since you own to have not yet a claim to her person, whatever portion of a claim you may fancy to have to her love, you would have shown a commendable concern for both your honors, as well as a ready obedience to the performance of a duty no gentleman, if he respects and acknowledges the authority of a parent over a child, would shrink from. Deeply mortified as I am that you have not availed yourself of an opportunity that, owing to the professed love you acknowledge for Marah, and our own anxiety for her reputation, would have shown a readiness for a greater sacrifice on your part, and therefore more appreciated by us, we might have borne it with some show of magnanimity had we not been pained to hear that only upon conditions our refractory daughter would return to her duties. Whether it be our intention to pardon her or not, her perverseness not to come home until she be assured of our forgiveness, even after she had been informed of the misery she had already caused us, aggravates the wrong and raises a doubt in our mind as to her knowledge of our authority and her duty. But since she finds pleasure in humiliating her parents in not trusting to their love their goodness and generosity, I will assure her, in the name of her mother and myself, that she had been forgiven before she had asked for forgiveness, and that we are ready to receive her with a love for her, even increased by the risk we have had of losing hers. 
                           I trust that this assurance will be the means to allay all her fears and uneasinesses; but should she, in the full sense of the great wrong she has been guilty of, incline to the belief that her trespass is greater than our power of forgiveness, I would have her know that, since she has shown a disinclination to throw herself unconditionally at our feet, I am ready, for the great love we bear her, to throw myself at her feet and beg, instead of command, her to go home-the home over which her absence has thrown a perpetual gloom. 
                           Disinclined as I am to upbraid either of you for what is passed, I still must not omit to mention my justly-entertained uneasiness at the great danger of an exposure I would give a fortune to prevent, should either you or my daughter, or perhaps both, be bent upon prolonging her absence. Up to this day we have succeeded to satisfy the inquiring; for how much longer we can deceive them I fear to say. This sorrow is telling on us bitterly; and to keep up a show of lightheartedness, as if we had nothing to break our hearts for, requires efforts, I assure you, we are scarcely equal to. Let Marah, therefore, prepare herself for seeing me in a week's time from now, at the latest; and should she then desire to make a visit to Long Branch, I shall cheerfully take her there, and even stay with her, until she may have recuperated her strength. I shall bring with me her wardrobe as well as her jewels, which are of no little value, and, in fact, all things necessary to make her comfortable and esteemed in the station she should occupy among the worthiest of the land. As regards yourself, Mr. Vane, I beg leave to defer this discussion until I meet you in New York, when, I hope, the proposition I intend to offer you will be of a nature to put an end to my uneasiness and your obtrusiveness. 
                           The money I have sent you is yours; spend it as you will, and more shall be at your service, so you give me no further cause of complaint. Treat my daughter, if you desire to gain my future favor, with that distance and becoming respect her present helplessness and want of proper protection are entitled to. Remember that she is at your mercy, and that there is but little glory in overcoming the weak. 
                           Please let me know by return of mail the name of the hotel in which you are now stopping, as I, as soon as possible after a reply to this, intend to start for New York. I have nothing more to add, unless a repetition of an assurance that my dear Marah is pardoned will restore ease to her mind, then let her consider it repeated-by her mother and by her father-a thousand times repeated, and that a consciousness of having given her comfort will, in the same proportion, lighten the weight of her parents' affliction, feels assured 
                           Her ever-loving father, 
                           
                              And your offended servant, 
                              ISAAC KOLTINZKY.
                            
                         
                      
                  
                
               The letter being read, Mr. Vane returned it once more to his pocket. There was no excitement, no flurry in his so doing. He was entirely unmoved, and his features wore their habitual calm, not betraying in the least what thoughts he was revolving in his mind. And yet, gradually, as he leaned back upon his chair, and his eyes followed mechanically the smoke that he slowly permitted to escape from between his lips, and curled above his head, his face grew more earnest and thoughtful. Thus he finished one cigar, lighted another, and, without stirring an inch, or in the least varying his expression, finished it too. A third was lit. 
               "Waiter." 
               The boy stopped and inquired of Mr. Vane what he could do for him. 
               "Go to the clerk's desk and bring me a sheet of note paper." 
               The paper was brought and laid upon the table. Mr. Vane looked at it, drew it and the inkstand nearer to him, and examined the pen. But he did not commence to write; at least not yet. He even did look at the paper only for a moment; his whole mind seemed to be absorbed in watching the fume of his cigar. Thus another quarter of an hour passed by. Now his eyes once more turned upon the table, where they remained riveted for some time. At last, he slowly drew the cigar from his lips, and examined the pen for the second time. A moment later he was engaged at writing a reply to the letter he had just received. It was very brief; but as it will prove to become a document of no slight importance in the development and progress of this narration, we deem it our duty to transcribe it for the benefit of the reader: 
               
                   
                      
                         
                           
                              NEW YORK, September 4th, 18-. 
                              Mr. Isaac Koltinzky:
                            
                           DEAR AND ESTEEMED SIR: Your kind, your most affectionate note, is scarcely fifteen minutes in my possession, and yet it has been perused by me-yes, fifty times. I am happy beyond expression. Let me not speak to you now of my remorse; it is not the time for it. Come, O come, as soon as you can, and console your daughter, for I have lost my influence over her, and she hardly gives me permission to visit her. I have already sent her effects to her friends at Long Branch, whither she intended to follow them herself to-day; but, I have no doubt, your kind note, when she sees it, which will be as fast as I can fly home, for I write this at the post-office, will have the effect to change her mind, and induce her to wait for your arrival. She longs to see her schoolmate, next to her parents, and I hope the contemplated visit will revive her sinking spirit; for, at present, I grieve to say it, she is a sad prey to the worst shade of melancholy. Marah shall at once notify her friends that she has succeeded in persuading you to accompany her. So make preparations at least for a short stay at Long Branch. This is all that I have time to write, for I desire this letter to leave on the first train west. Please telegraph to me, in care of Station A, the hour of your departure, also on what line you intend to come, so that I can meet you on your arrival, and thereby oblige your sincerely repentant servant, 
                           
                              CLIFFORD VANE.
                            
                         
                      
                  
                
               This note Mr. Vane placed in an envelope, and properly superscribed it with the address of the party whom it was intended to reach. 
               It was late in the evening when he returned home to Marah, whom he found anxiously waiting for him. She met him at the door, and with tears of joy sparkling in the corners of her eyes, she threw herself around his neck, exclaiming: "O, Clifford! Clifford! I thought you never would come. You can scarcely conceive how long this day has been to me. O, why do you stay out so long, when you know that every hour of your absence seems a year to me?" 
               This was followed by an abundant flow of tears. 
               "And you ought to know, dearest," Clifford replied, gently leading her back into the room, "that we can not always satisfy our inclinations; else, if we could, what would prevent us from indulging in the wildest excesses? This is a wise ordainment-a providence-to save us from ourselves. Be thankful that I have so readily found employment-employment which is honorable, too, and which insures us a respectable income. It is undeniably unpleasant to be compelled, in order to do justice to my vocation, to spend the greater part of the day, and even some hours in the night, away from home. A man employed as a reporter for the morning papers, has to be continually on the street to pick up news items; and if he intends his services to be appreciated, then must little of importance, that might be interesting to the public, escape his vigilant eye. Therefore, you must excuse late hours, and spend; during my absence, the time as best you can." 
               "Clifford," she replied, fondly looking into his eyes, "don't be angry. I have never been away from home, and though I try to get used to this life, I can not succeed as fast as I should like to. Therefore, bear with me a little longer; I hope, when I am more accustomed to move among strangers, that I won't mind it as much as I do now." 
               "Silly child! Why should I be angry at you? Is it not natural that you should still feel homesick? But come, and cheer up; for while I am here, I love to see your face radiant with smiles. Besides, I have some news to tell you." 
               Marah started, and her face turned white and lifeless. 
               "News? Good or bad?" She riveted her eyes upon him, and her lips trembled with agitation. 
               He smiled to reassure her. "Be not frightened," he said, calmly; "the news I have to tell you is rather encouraging. I have had a letter this morning from your father--" 
                
               "How is he? O, how is he? And my mother-my good mother! Are they both well? Have they forgiven me? Tell me-tell me, Clifford!" 
               "If you will be patient but for a moment, you shall hear all. It is somewhat difficult to answer all your questions in a single breath. Now, sit down by me, and I will begin. That's it. I told you a moment ago that the news I have for you is encouraging, and I had reasons for saying so. First of all, your parents enjoy exceeding good health--" 
               "Thank God!" Marah exclaimed, unable to repress her joy at this information. 
               "Yes, they enjoy good health," he repeated, "and seem strong enough to bear a greater shock than they have so far been compelled to feel on account of your elopement. But this is not what I intended to tell you; for this is only my opinion, and can not be gleaned from the contents of their letter. I intended to tell you that your parents have notified me that some time during next week your wardrobe would be forwarded to you. This, Marah, is very generous of them; for they evidently desire you to enjoy your life here, and it is the only reply they have yet sent to your several appeals to be permitted to go home, so you might throw yourself at their feet to beg their pardon. I admire your father, Marah, by George, I do! He has such a delicate way to decline favors. When I called upon him for his consent to our union, he left the decision to you-most gentlemanly he did-and hardly had I left his presence, he tried, both gentlemanly and fatherly, to dissuade you from your purpose. You begged him for the privilege of throwing yourself a penitent at his feet, and he, with his usual liberality, intends to send you your wardrobe so you might enjoy yourself here. Now, tell me, seriously, Marah, whether you do not admire the grace-the finesse-with which your father knows how to decline unpleasant things? He should never have become nor been a counter-hopper and tape-measurer, for he has talent for something higher. By George! he would do well for a statesman!" 
               All this was uttered with but poorly disguised sarcasm, and for the first time Marah detected an expression in his eyes that she remembered long years after with feelings of horror. Not knowing how to resent what she fancied a charge not altogether devoid of truth, and yet, this being the only occasion in all her days when she had the mortification to hear her father thus disparagingly spoken of, she resorted to tears, and thus gave vent to her injured feelings. 
               Clifford watched her for a moment in silence. He could do so unobserved, for she was looking away from him. Not a muscle moved in his face; he was calm, and calmly could see her suffer-and intended to see her suffer, if for nothing else but for her father's sake, whom he hated for his judgment and his interference. But he would be even with him yet, yes, more than even, and that before long. Marah was the only child of Koltinzky's love; was his hope, and even more than his life. To strike a blow that might be felt, it must be aimed at the very root of his life, hope and future happiness. And was not Marah this very root? 
               Clifford almost smiled. He was thinking of the sweet revenge he was preparing for this Jew-hated, doubly hated, because he was a Jew. But the time had not yet arrived. Marah still pleased his fancy, and as long as she did not become revolting to his sight he would endure her presence. Her's was a youthful, charming figure; it had aroused in his bosom a desire to sacrifice it to his lewd passions, and-he, the libertine! laughed again-he had found means to rob her of her brightest jewel. 
               "What have I remarked," he commenced, seeing that she was turning her face toward him, "that it should be rewarded with so profuse a shower of tears? If every thing I have to say to you will produce this effect, I must learn to be more guarded in the future with my words." 
               Marah rose from her seat. Raising her splendid form to its natural height, she looked for a moment, full of sadness, at the face of the man she so ardently loved, then, once more bursting into tears, threw herself into his arms and laid her tearful cheek upon his breast. 
               "O, Clifford! Clifford," she sobbed, "do not upbraid me. I can endure any thing from any body so it does not come from you, to obtain whom it has cost me my parents' favor and love." 
               "Perhaps you regret the step you have taken?" 
               "God! how you torture me! you know you are dearer to me than life itself. Why, then, should you ever torment me with such words as these? Have I not given you sufficient proof of my love? Have I not, in giving myself to you, cut loose from all those dear and near to me? And great as that sacrifice was to me, who have been from infancy on so much fondled, loved and caressed, would I not now, had I to choose, once more throw myself into my Clifford's arm? So chide me not-O chide me not." 
               "Marah, darling," he replied, as if relenting, "I confess to my rudeness in having thus spoken of your father. Had my love been less for you I might have passed over this exhibition of his coolness without a single comment, but as it called to my mind with what humiliation and penitence you had addressed him in your letters, I ask you, is it a wonder, that I, for whom you have courted his displeasure, must feel nettled-else I 'd be no man of spirit-at this violence done, through you, upon me?" 
               "O, forgive it, Clifford. He means us no harm though he can not love us as I have prayed it might be" 
               "I only regret that the offense is no greater," he replied, with a gallantness no one knew better to assume than he, "so I could better give you proof of my readiness to bear with meekness any insult or injury for your sake!" 
               "I trust to heaven," she said fervently, "that you may never be called upon to show these tests. Father will hear my prayers sooner or later-and then-" 
               "And then-" 
               "He will fold us in his arms, as he used to do me, and bless us." 
               "I hope so," answered Clifford, smiling, "and in the meantime let us be satisfied with caressing ourselves, for, Marah," and he kissed her, "what would life be without it?" 
               He kissed her, and kissed her, and kissed her again, and the gentle flame burning in her eyes, and her quickly coming breath, and her panting bosom swelling to her handsome neck, were signs he could not construe into a desire on her part to see his warmth decreasing. 
               "Do you love me, dearest?" he whispered. 
               "Yes," he thought she answered. 
             
             
               CHAPTER XVII. 
               MISCHIEF. 
               SO far Mrs. Carrie Harrington had had no occasion to regret having taken these lodgers. Mr. Vane was all a gentleman could be, and Marah had shown herself in every respect as a lady of heart and refinement. It is, therefore, not to be wondered at that she felt a secret pleasure in this unexpected tide in her favor. A few conversations with Marah convinced her that she was a lady of gentle birth, and of a fine education, and that she was-a Jewess. That was written upon her features, and it was it that surprised Carrie Harrington. A Jewess to resort to such a step as Marah had done! To become a favorite! She could scarcely understand it. Besides there was still that peculiar modesty about her which a woman loses-must have lost-before she can consent to become-what Clifford Vane had represented Marah to be. But as he paid her handsomely, Mrs. Harrington inclined to have nothing to do with his affairs, or those of the woman he had brought with him, and was content with the chance to save considerable money, by which her daughter-her beloved Adelaide-might be able, should circumstances favor, to enter society with a greater advantage, at some later period. 
               Carrie Harrington had heard Mr. Vane return on the evening mentioned in our previous chapter, and she hurried to prepare the supper. Both herself and her daughter helped the servant, who had only been in the house for a couple of days, and knew not yet how to come up to the requirements of her mistress. The old servant had been sent off; she knew too much of Mrs. Harrington's life for Mrs. Harrington's benefit, so she had had to bundle up and go on a tramp. 
               "Go up and see," this to the servant by Mrs. Harrington, "and ask Mr. Vane and lady down to supper." 
               The girl returned, and with her Mr. Vane himself. "Adelaide," he said, after wishing them "good evening," "will you oblige me by going up to my wife to help her make a choice of some collars I brought home for her inspection?" 
               "Go, my dear," Mrs. Harrington added, "and be sure to bring down the collar favored with Mrs. Vane's choice, for I am anxious to see it." 
               "No, you needn't bring it down, Adelaide," Mr. Vane now said, as if another idea had just struck him. "I shall bring your 'ma upstairs. I want to hear her opinion also." 
               Adelaide had left the dining-hall, and the servant had gone into the kitchen. Clifford Vane was quite alone with Carrie. 
               "I have come to speak to you a few words if you have time to take me where we might not be overheard," he said, hurriedly. 
               She took him into the sitting-room without saying a word. 
               "What is it that I can do for you?" she asked, after she had closed the door behind her. 
               He took hold of her hand and kept it between his. 
               "You can do for me a great favor if you have a mind to," he commenced, after a short pause. "I need a friend-will you be mine? Tell me, may I really count on your friendship?" 
               He appeared to be uneasy, and, once or twice, he looked toward the door, as if afraid of being surprised. 
               "I must be cautious," he added, once more looking at the door, "for I would not have her see us together for the world; for she is already jealous of you." He still had her hand between his, and now, for the first time, Carrie seemed to remember it. She would have answered him, but he gave her no opportunity. "I must see you to-night," he proceeded, still holding her hand, "and you must find some excuse for leaving your house. I shall meet you on Bleeker-street, corner of Broadway. You can ride there with the car. Can I depend on you?" 
               "Yes." 
               He thanked her with more ardor than sincerity, and then hurried from the room. 
               Marah jealous of Carrie Harrington! 
               Never had such a thought entered her mind; but as Clifford Vane knew how to feed the vanity of woman, he was not slow to raise it when an object was to be gained by it 
               And was not a great object to be gained now? 
               Carrie Harrington was in the act of returning to the dining-room when, as she entered the hall for that purpose, Mr. Vane came toward her. "I had forgot," he said, as he stopped in front of her, "that I have promised to bring you to my wife's room. Let us go up together now, dear Mrs. Harrington, and look at those collars." 
                
               They left the room together. 
               Carrie, deeming a reply unnecessary, and not finding words with their accustomed ease to flow to her lips, and feeling somewhat embarrassed without precisely knowing why, walked along the passage, closely followed-being almost alongside of her-by Mr. Vane, who interpreted her silence as a favorable omen to himself. He suffered her to proceed as far as to the steps that led to the floor on which Marah's rooms were situated, before he addressed her. His first words had the effect, as they were intended to have, to stop her at once. With one of her feet on the first step, and her left hand holding on to the banister, she turned half way round, attentively, and with a subdued glance, to listen to him. He stood in front of her-very near; in fact, nearer by far than was necessary, or a due observance of the code of propriety would have warranted, or she would have permitted, had she thought, or attempted to ask herself whether she had a right to think, this show of a want of the proper sense of respect toward her, was not accidental, but a studied piece of acting on the part of a man who had been pleased to find sufficient confidence in her discretion, but a few minutes ago, to solicit her friendship and her services. She leaned back a little toward the wall, showing off-whether intentionally or unintentionally it matters little here-her superb, rounded figure, to an advantage women even considerably beyond her years and above her station, but with far fewer claims to beauty, find no compunction to avail themselves of. Whether Mr. Vane, susceptible on all occasions to the influence of feminine grace and beauty, and generally most where even the least should have brought a blush of shame upon his cheeks, was charmed, on this particular instance, by this handsome widow, coyly looking down, with half-closed eyes, it is certain that before she had had time to account to herself why that gentleman should have stopped so near her, she felt her otherwise unoccupied hand gently taken captive of, and even without as much as a single pressure, which she might have construed into an inelegant no less than uncalled for exhibition of familiarity, retained between his own. The first touch, it must be confessed, to do her justice, brought the crimson blood to her cheeks and raised a storm in her bosom, and swelled her breast so that its violence threatened to burst the soft and close-fitting bodice she wore; and, for a moment, as she raised her head in anger, and boldly met his calm and unswerving glance, an outburst of indignation was imminent. But Clifford Vane, as if unconscious of the least intention to offend, or even that any such thought was entertained of him, feigned not to see that the least change had taken place in Carrie's visage; and, while he had the satisfaction of seeing the natural color return to her face, though her bosom seemed still to rise and fall with agitation, after he had twice repeated, rather in a low tone, her name, proceeded to say: 
               "I have a favor to ask of you. Please do not intimate by hints, thrown out either in words or actions, and so readily taken up by jealous persons, that I have made you acquainted with my wife's-Marah's silly apprehensions. You know that a lady who holds but a doubtful position is always in fear of losing the favors not obtained with an assurance of undying affection. You must, therefore, weigh her offense with this consideration in the other balance, and you will, no doubt, reduce it to a mere folly." 
               "Rest assured," Mrs. Harrington said in reply, assuming, for the moment, an air of superiority, "that the lady up-stairs shall never hear of me what you have been pleased to tell me. I only fear, Mr. Vane, that if such a person as I am," and here the handsome woman smiled, and her soft blue eyes twinkled, "can move her to jealousy, there will be little peace for her-as a man like yourself will most naturally meet with handsome ladies, often, very often-in the future." 
               Mr. Vane thought he could afford to smile a little too, as he said: "You know I am not here to pay you any compliments, while I have a lady up-stairs, who, for the present, has, by virtue of her position, a just claim to all the fine speeches the prodigal tongue of love can invent; but it is no little credit to her discernment to fear charms which, only for their possessor's unwillingness to see their value, would be formidable, and achieve conquests where even beauties by far greater than Mrs. Vane-I must call her so-would fail to awaken the slightest sensation of sensual delight." 
               Mrs. Harrington looked a flame of fire. Her neck, cheeks and brow were deep scarlet. "What do you mean?" she said in anger, her eyes riveted to his expressionful but unmoved face. "Who do you take me for? Do you mean to trifle with me? What right have you to speak to me in this manner? Let go of my hand!" 
               "One word, Mrs. Harrington," Clifford Vane replied, assuming an air of injured pride, "and, if after you have heard me, your anger is still unappeased, I will not only let go of your hand, but also permit you, and I pledge my honor for its fulfillment, to lay any penance on me you may deem my conduct deserving of." 
               Mrs. Harrington had struggled to release her hand; but ere Mr. Vane had got but half through with this preliminary remark, he had the satisfaction of seeing, by the struggle she had given up, the favorable impression it had left. "All women are vain and weak alike," he thought, and so, bending the iron while it was hot, proceeded: "I can answer your questions in few words, Mrs. Harrington. Believe me, or not believe me, will not change my opinion, nor inveigh the truth of it. You have asked me what I mean; I answer you, Mrs. Harrington-answer it without the least equivocation-that I mean what I have said. I have remarked-and I thought with no want of respect to you-that I deem you handsome, in the fullest sense of the word. I did not intend to flatter, and I have not flattered. Nor have I said it for any other purpose than to show you that Mrs. Vane fears the influence of your beauty over me-a beauty I was indiscreet enough to comment upon to her. Now, Madame, if you wish to impugn my motives-I am a plain-spoken man, you see,-why, you are at full liberty to do so." But before she had time to think how to answer him, Mr. Vane adroitly came to her rescue, removed her embarrassment, and took it upon himself to speak for her, in the following manner: "I see," he said, not only retaining her hand, but, this time, passionately pressing it between his own, "that I have succeeded to convince you of my sincerity, and I assure you that your kind disposition and great generosity have warmed my heart toward you, that I look upon you-and I hope you will not feel offended-not as a mere stranger, but in the light of a true friend-of a relative. Pray, Mrs. Harrington, am I too bold?" 
               "I shall try to deserve the good opinion you have of me," she replied, in an undertone. 
               Mr. Vane interrupted her before she could proceed to say more. "Mrs. Harrington," he exclaimed, drawing still nearer her, a smile upon his face, "you don't know how happy I feel at this moment." Here he raised her hand to his lips and smothered it with several kisses. This was done with such a warm ebullition of joy, and evidently without the least intent to offend, that Mrs. Harrington, thus surprised, scarcely knew whether to be pleased or offended at this boldness. To have her hand thus made free of, and this by a man whose relationship with another lady made the offence doubly offensive, annoyed her, and she felt it her duty to give vent by some means, which could not be mistaken, and would preclude the possibility of further progressions in his freedom with her person, to her great displeasure. And now even, while she was thus debating with herself in regard to the best mode of procedure, he became much bolder, by drawing still closer to her-in fact, so close that he could feel the effects of her agitation in the wild beating of her bosom against his, and by twining his arm, firmly and determinatedly, around her waist. This was really more than she could endure. Was she not a widow-a respectable widow? What inducements had she held out to him to warrant such freedoms? And why should he think so little of her as even to suppose she would permit his insolences? And worse than all: what would he think-and what would he really have a right to think-were she not to stand upon her dignity and give full expression to her outraged feelings? It had grown dark in the hall by this time, and she could but indistinctly see the expression of his face. Of one thing she was certain: his eyes glowed like a ball of fire; and she really would have been afraid of some violence had she not found him otherwise as calm and passionless as some inanimate object. Yes, she would give him a piece of her mind. Just then instinctively she felt the danger of anoth--, yes, he had the boldness to pollute her lips with a kiss! At this fresh outrage blood-the hot life-blood-rushed to her cheeks, and with one mighty effort she succeeded in tearing her hand loose from his manly grasp. Clifford Vane could not see her face, but the manner with which she had affected her hand's release showed him the stage of her temper. He felt now that a slower progress would have been the better policy to adopt, but whether it would have been better or worse, it certainly would have been the worst of policy to stop at this juncture, and suffer her to give vent to her indignation in words, without first making a great effort-a master-stroke-to recover her good favor, or, at least, to keep her from speaking-for a minute or two-until she had cooled down somewhat. So no sooner had she released her hand than he-before she had time to utter a syllable-wound his arm still firmer round her waist, and drew her to his breast, in which position, her cheeks resting against his, he held her as in a vice, as he hurriedly whispered into her ears: "For God's sake do not stir! There's some one on the top of the stairs-your daughter, I believe. Good God! If she or Marah should find us together. Sh!--" 
               Frightened, almost out of her wits, Mrs. Harrington permitted Mr. Vane to draw her still closer to him, and as she thus lay in his close embrace, from which she could not easily free herself, lest the least disturbance occasioned thereby might expose their position, and entail-innocent as she knew herself to be-upon her both undeserved reproach and disgrace, she had no alternative but to submit to this outrage; for unendurable as it was, and inexcusable as she considered it, she would sooner have borne ten thousand such insults unseen, than to have been discovered in permitting one. 
               Clifford Vane inwardly smiled at the success of this subterfuge; and while her gentle breath came warm upon his cheeks, and he could feel her own heart beat wildly against his own, his pulse began to throb somewhat faster, and he fancied that the loss of Marah would not be entirely irretrievable, provided he could win this woman's love, which might have satisfied his corrupt tastes had not her daughter-the lovely and innocent Adelaide-been selected by him as his next prey. That sweet pale face, with its large black eyes and long dreamy eyelashes, her laughing teeth and roguish smile, the unstudied grace of her slender form, too much developed to be that of a girl, and rather hinting at than being possessed sessed of the charms of fresh, full-blown womanhood in its ripest stage, had attracted his eye, but he would not startle the fawn lest it flee upon the wings of cautioned virtue from his well-laid snares. But-- 
               Mrs. Harrington's waist was still encircled by his arm. From her strange quiet he augured that her anger had been overcome by fright. He would not wait until these feelings would be reversed once more. So, before she knew what he intended to do, he had loudly called on Marah to open the door for them, and released her from the embrace in which he had held her. "Don't fall, Mrs. Harrington," he added in a very loud tone, giving her no opportunity to speak, "for I'm sure if you don't know the way up these stairs, I, comparatively a stranger in this house, ought to have your sympathy and be excused for stumbling. But here is Marah with a light-no, it is your daughter-'tis Adelaide who comes to our rescue." 
               All this was uttered while he was preceding Mrs. Harrington up the stairs. He had not given her a chance to slip in a word. Now he felt relieved; in the presence of a third party he knew that he could feel himself secure. However much he might have had to suffer from the power of her tongue had they remained by themselves, his knowledge of human nature taught him that in the presence of a third party a woman invariably shrinks from avenging outrages committed upon herself by a brazen-faced libertine, and therefore he assumed an air of unconcern as he politely, and with a show of no little humor, greeted Adelaide on the top of the stairs, which selfassurance would almost have been sufficient to make Carrie fall in love with him, had only some one else instead of herself been the object of his indignities, which still-such is female nature-she would sooner have endured, a dozen times, than have had them bestowed, for once, upon one of her sex who would have enjoyed them. 
               "Well, Adelaide," he said, with a pleasing familiarity, "what do you think of the collars? Do you think I have displayed any taste in my selections?" And here, after indifferently listening to her praises, he turned toward Mrs. Harrington, and commenced to tell her in what stores he had been and with what difficulty he had succeeded to find, notwithstanding the large stock that could be seen almost in every establishment, genuine and fashionable lace-goods. Mrs. Harrington could scarcely keep from exhibiting her astonishment at this man's superlative effrontery, and once or twice, as he walked between mother and daughter, and now addressed this one and then that one, she looked up at his face-in mere curiosity-to see whether he could fairly, squarely, and boldly meet her glances. 
               The face of a child could not be freer of guile than his appeared in these inspections. Not even a hidden meaning was in his eyes. Simple and artless as his words were, his gaze was no less frank and open. His handsome face and brow wore a bland expression, and the calmness visible in every feature, and the freedom of all art that might have concealed in them his embarrassment, made her believe that that man by her side was either simple as a child, or deep and designing as none she had ever met with could match in art. Be he the one or the other-she was almost prepared, as she looked upon his manly form, to forgive him, and, it must be confessed, much as she would have respected him in finding him a gentleman, her admiration for him would not have been materially impaired had she had her worst apprehensions verified. 
               On hearing them approach, Marah opened the door for them. Like a queen-grace in every attitude, in every motion-she stood upon the threshold, a pleasant smile upon her tempting lips and a glow of health upon her cheeks. Her large, liquid gray eyes were laughing-laughing with happiness-as their glance rested upon the tall and manly form of Clifford Vane-of her own dear, dear Clifford! She stretched out her little palm for him to take, and never evinced a man a greater pleasure than he did at seeing her; and as he fondly twined his arm around her waist and patted her cheeks with his hand, she turned her lovely face, wreathed in blushes, toward Mrs. Harrington, and whispered, as if abashed, "Are we not foolish?" 
               Mrs. Harrington gave a smile for an answer, and looked, with more astonishment than ever, upon that man. 
               Having entered the room the conversation naturally turned on the collars, Mr. Clifford Vane, as he stood now between Marah and Adelaide, quietly listening to the various comments the ladies had to make. For the first few minutes Mrs. Harrington spoke little-scarcely any thing, but eventually she joined the rest, and with a volubility of tongue, and with exclamations, such as "O, how beautiful!" and "What a splendid piece of work!" and "Isn't this handsome!" and many other such phrases, enlivened the conversation, and exhibited an interest beyond what the occasion required. A hightened glow was upon her cheeks, and now and then, as some witty remark was uttered, her silver voice-for silvery it still was despite her age-rang through the room, its vivacity astonishing no one more than herself. And yet there was some thing strained-unnatural-in her conduct which made her feel uncomfortable. Had Marah, had Adelaide noticed it? She didn't know; but she felt-she was confident that Mr. Vane had discovered that unnaturalness in her voice and behavior. She had raised her eyes to his face and found that he was looking at her. He had been speaking to Marah, but now turned to address her. Nothing forced in his conversation whose chiefest charm was its simplicity. But though she could not see her own face, she knew, for she felt it, that it was a tell-tale face, and that her eyes, if nothing else, must have betrayed to him-for he was steadily looking into them-that she was but playing a part. She felt mortified with herself for being thus put out; she could not account to herself why her spirit had become so elated when she had so much desired to appear unmoved and natural. And yet she could not help herself, for to hide that mortification by growing taciturn at once, was a feat she could not accomplish; so she was forced to play out the part she found herself, against her own will, engaged in. She had just been answering Mr. Vane some unimportant question, when Marah, taking a collar-one of the richest in the selection, in her hand, and turning toward her, said: 
               "Since this piece of needle-work pleases you best, and that other-"pointing to the lace collar Adelaide was still admiringly handling, "has so taken the fancy of your daughter, you must permit me the pleasure of presenting them to you. I have, as you see,"-interrupting them in their unfeigned expressions of thanks, for they were really surprised at this unlocked for show of generosity-"also selected one for myself, and if mine is prettier than either of yours you will only have yourself to blame for it." 
               "O, you are so good, Mrs. Vane," still continued Adelaide, for she was too much pleased with the gift, and her warm heart was too sensible of this token of affection, not to give expression, in some manner, to its feelings. Mrs. Harrington, too, but with less warmth and enthusiasm, relieved herself with a becoming propriety of her sense of obligation, while Marah, more happy than either, for having been the occasion of their happiness, looked with pride and affection upon Mr. Vane, as she replied, in a joyful voice: "Spare your words, Mrs. Harrington, and you, my Adelaide, be not so profuse of your thanks, for these trifles are scarcely worthy of them. But even if they had deserved of some acknowledgment the manner with which you have received them, and the pleasure they have afforded you, make all thanks unnecessary on your parts, and leave but one regret in my heart, and that is, that I am not in a position to do more." 
               "Indeed, Mrs. Vane," replied Mrs Harrington, "my daughter and I are more than thankful to you for these splendid presents, and as they are equally unexpected as splendid, our joy is that much the greater. I hope that we will some day be enabled to repay you this kindness." 
               "O, please," Marah interrupted her, "do not speak of repayment. The only reward I desire for the little good I can do, and the little happiness I can be the means of occasioning, is the unspoken pleasure I myself derive in seeing others happy. Therefore, I beg you to waste no further words in acknowledgments, and allow me to ask you-coming back to the practical now-is supper ready?" 
               "This is indeed a question of no little interest to me," added Mr. Vane, with a show of good humor, "for I have brought home with me an appetite this evening, you will find it difficult to satiate with an ordinary meal. But come, let us get ready, my dear,"-this to Marah-"for I will have to leave you again for an hour to two." 
               "O, Clifford," she replied, with a feeling of regret and displeasure in her voice, "why can you not stay with me a little while? I see so little of you during the day, that I can't help but find it a great sacrifice to be compelled to spare your company also after dark. Don't go away, Clifford; stay at home-won't you, Clifford?" 
               The fond wife looked pleadingly into his eyes which were tenderly turned upon her anxious, uplifted face. "How often must I repeat to you, my dearest," he said, gently drawing her to his side, "the regret I myself feel at the necessity that calls me away when my inclinations, were I to yield to them, would bid me stay at home-stay with you. But my profession is unfortunately of a nature which calls for the sacrifice of my nearest and dearest wishes, and, circumstances which I hope to be able sooner or later to control, for the present, at least, must find me a ready slave. So cheer up, dearest, and remember that the harder the parting the more joyful the meeting on my return. Beside, Mrs. Harrington and Adelaide will keep you company, and while they are with you I shall be scarcely missed. Won't you try to entertain my wife, while I'm gone, Mrs. Harrington?" he added, looking her full in the face. 
               Carrie, who for the last few moments, had somewhat regained her usual composure, once more began to feel uneasy, and her heart ached with some unnatural pain, as she was called upon to answer this question. She wondered whether Mr. Vane had forgotten the promise for her to meet him on Bleeker Street, which he had drawn from her. She would look into his face; perhaps it would solve the mystery. 
               She raised her head, and the first glance at his face sent the red blood to her own. He had not forgotten the promise; she felt sure that those eyes so steadily looking into her own, had read her own doubts and now reminded her afresh of her promise. 
               She felt herself thrown into a state of uncertainty. Should she or should not meet him after what had transpired since the promise had been given? Had he not forfeited all claims to her friendship, and had his conduct not been of a nature to shake her confidence in his honor and discretion? How could she with any consistency meet him, after he had made so free with her, at some rendezvous for purposes-what purposes?-he had not given her even a clue to surmise? Might he not have evil intentions toward her person, and under the guise of friendship, lure her from-she blushed still more, and something like an expression of indignation sharpened her features tures. She was resolved. That man, at least, should not find her weak. She would stay at home, nor meet him any where, or at any time-at least not until she had more proofs of his honest intentions. 
               Arrived at this conclusion she raised her head once more-as her eyes for sometime had been turned upon the collar playfully held between her fingers-to his face for the purpose of telling him that she should be happy to entertain his wife during his absence, when, as if he had been divining what was passing in her mind, he said, before she had time to utter a syllable: "Mrs. Harrington, it appears to me, must have some other engagement for this evening, and, in all probability, desires to go out to-night." Here Mrs. Harrington wished to correct him, but, taking Marah's arm, and moving toward the door for the purpose of going down stairs, he added: "I see you wish to excuse yourself, but we will not suffer you to do so, Mrs. Harrington. My wife and I will not take it well if you inconvenience yourself on our account. You desire to go out this evening, and it is our wish that you should do so. Do you want Mrs. Harrington to stay at home on your account, Marah?" 
               "On my account?" she repeated, following her husband into the hall, "no, indeed. I shall never feel right at home here as long as you (to Mrs. Harrington) stand on ceremony. I shall really be offended if you stay at home on my account. Adelaide is good company, and we will pass our time pleasantly enough, I assure you." 
               "Well, this is settled then," added Clifford. "Mrs. Harrington can in no wise show us better that we are no burden to her, than by attending to her own business and pleasure just as she has done before we came here. Now, please, down to supper, for, as I have remarked before, I have almost an insatiable appetite." 
               He turned the conversation into a different channel, and soon the ladies-even Carrie Harrington, felt the influence of his lively spirit, and grew animated. The supper passed off amid the liveliest conversation, and in which each and every one participated to the fullest extent. And yet Mr. Vane, even not for a moment, while the hilarity, (for the ladies were hilarious) was at its highest, forgot his presence of mind. Steering continually between the two extremes, he had the tact of keeping their enjoyment from waning, for he understood when and how to introduce, discuss, and finally, drop a subject. Now and then, by a word thrown in, in proper season, like the last master touch of a painter on an unfinished picture, rescued a subject that otherwise might have become wearisome. He smiled now on this one, and now on that one, and only look an active part in a conversation until the thread thereof was fairly taken up by the rest, when he would rather follow, with some occasional spicy remark, than lead the discussion himself. 
               The supper was over; Mr. Vane, after having conducted the ladies into the drawing-room, made himself ready to go out. Marah, knowing that to complain would not retain him, made a virtue of necessity, and tried to keep up her good humor. 
               "That's right, my dear," he said, taking her hand in his, "to yield so gracefully to what can't be avoided. Seeing you thus in good humor lightens my own heart of considerable anxiety, and permits me to go forth to do my duties with more spirit and animation than I have heretofore had. So, good-by," and he pressed his lips upon her brow, "and try to amuse yourself as well as you can with Adelaide." 
               He looked from the face of Marah into that of Carrie Harrington who was pretending to be busied with arranging the folds of her dress, but who was in fact watching, with an eye of interest, every movement that Mr. Vane was making. Their eyes met, and again the blood rushed to her cheeks, and her heart began to beat faster. Still she had time to disabuse him; he was still in her presence and she could inform him, without even giving a hint to either her daughter or Marah of what was meant by it, that she intended to stay at home that night, but, somehow, she could not bring herself to say it, and before she could gain the necessary courage, he had told her good-by, and good-humoredly enjoined upon Adelaide to try to be a good companion to Marah, during her mother's absence. 
               During her mother's absence- 
               Thus, followed by Marah to the outer door, he left the house, satisfied with the progress he had made during the evening. 
             
             
               CHAPTER XVIII. 
               BRAZEN TO THE LAST. 
               Mr. VANE had played his cards well. Mrs. Harrington came-came as he had appointed her to come-to the corner of Broadway and Bleeker, much sooner than he had hoped to see her. It had evidently not taken much time to settle her doubts or to make up her mind, and Mr. Vane's heart really laughed for the satisfaction his success gave him, as he saw her leave the car and join him at the corner. She still wore that black dress in which he thought, and she seemed to have known that he thought, she looked so well. A thin shawl was gracefully falling over her handsomely rounded shoulders, and on her head rested a fashionable bonnet making her look more bewitchingly beautiful than ever in Clifford's eyes. She had evidently taken some pains to appear to some advantage, and though her face was unusually sober and stern, her whole appearance warranted such a supposition. He offered her his arm; she accepted it without the utterance of a word. Mr. Vane saw that she was angry-or at least appeared so; but was she not, after what had transpired at her house, compelled to appear so? Even if she had desired to forget and forgive his outrageous conduct, might her readiness to do so not be construed by him as an invitation for grosser insults? Hence Mr. Vane saw the necessity of this show of anger and instead of being frightened with it, valued it for what it was worth and appeared not to have noticed it at all. He had certainly nothing to fear; as long as her arm rested in his he was master of the situation, and he thought he would be greatly mistaken in the woman if she should remove that arm before he desired her to do so. 
               "I am truly glad that you've come," he said, passing down Broadway. 
               "Don't flatter yourself that I have come for your sake," she replied with anger, "for if you do you are mistaken. I have come to inquire of you, for at home I could not well do it, what you have meant by offering me so many insults?" 
               "Insults?" he replied, with astonishment. "Insults? Pray, Mrs. Harrington, explain yourself. I know of no insults that I am guilty of-at least not to you." 
               "'At least not to me,' you say?" she repeated. "Mr. Vane, I believe you look upon me in the light of a being with whom it is easy to trifle. But I am not quite so weak as you in your self-assurance may have thought me to be. I know what is proper, and though you have found me rather in reduced circumstances, there was a time, sir, when Carrie Harrington mingled among the best in the best of society, and gentlemen of worth and merit felt themselves flattered when she only deigned to smile upon them. What right, sir-what encouragements have I given you-by what action have I lost so much respect in your eyes-that you should feel yourself warranted in taking freedoms with my person, no gentleman would offer, nor any lady could endure with the least sense of self-respect? Yes, sir, I have come for the purpose to tell you that you have offended my feelings, for which you can give no other excuse than an unreasonable desire on your part to test my weakness." 
               Mr. Vane waited a moment before he replied-waited however, not because he had no answer ready, but for the purpose of leaving the impression upon her mind that this accusation had been unexpected and had had the power to disconcert him. They walked slowly along Broadway, and he could feel her bosom, as she hung upon his arm, heave with strong agitation. "You seem to be offended at me," he said, at length, in a dubious manner, "on account of one thing or another, but, Madame, upon the honor of a gentleman, my heart and my mind are as unconscious of a wrong either toward yourself or daughter as they ever were even toward the gentle being who has given me the first blessing. If I have however unwittingly offended you, Mrs. Harrington, permit me to express to you my sincerest regret, and the assurance that nothing but your fullest pardon can remove from my heart the reproaches with which I must load it for having deserved of your displeasure. But if my offence has been as great as the punishment you have already given me in your misconstruction of my character, I shall never more be able to feel at home at your house and look upon you in the light of a dear friend-in the light of a friend, dear Mrs. Harrington, of whom I had, in my simplicity, expected so much, and in whom I was about to confide my honor, aye, my life. I see, to my sorrow, that even you misunderstand me." He walked on in silence for something like a minute, then added: "Do you wish me to see you home?" 
               Mrs. Harrington did not anticipate this question, consequently she was unprepared to give an immediate reply. They had been keeping up a brisk walk, but now he fell into a slower pace, as if in expectation of an affirmative answer. He was determined to humiliate her thoroughly, for he felt certain of his power over her, and that to show a weakness on his part could only be followed by a gain of assumed strength and hauteur on her part. He would act the offended party now, and make her come to terms, which he knew a bold front would effect. 
               "Shall I conduct you home, Madame?" This in a voice of injured pride, and he stopped right still. "Yes?" and he turned around for the purpose of retracing his steps to Bleeker-street. 
               She had not said yes-had said nothing at all. She intended to say yes-for what else could she have done with any show of propriety-but it was extremely mortifying to her to have been understood to say any thing when she had not spoken at all. She followed him in silence; her arm was still resting upon his. He walked along with so much grace, and though she did not look up, she fancied, that he must have grown a head taller since they had turned around. Could he really be so greatly offended? She would look up into his face to see. With a timidity she had never before experienced in her life, she turned her face upward and her eyes discovered a stern expression in his calm and unmoved features that quite unnerved her. She had felt uneasy during this hasty inspection, lest he might have discovered her at it; but now, her face once more lowered, she felt a sense of relief steal over her, and for a moment, while she was mentally reviewing the handsome, manly, stern and noble figure, walking full of conscious strength and dignity by her side, and passed those dwarfish dandies upon which her eyes now fell with a feeling of contempt, she acknowledged to herself that she regretted to have been understood by him that she wanted to be seen home. 
               Only one square more, and they would be on Bleecker-street. Would he ask her again? She remembered the expression of his face, and inclined to the negative. Her heart felt heavy at the prospect, and, if she had not been on the alert, a sigh would have escaped her lips. To use the mildest term, she felt strangely uncomfortable. 
               But a few steps more and the corner would be reached. She could already hear the regular tramp of the horses of the street-car. Good God! how faint she at once became! How her heart was leaping within her bosom! And here-yes, here was the street-car in which she had to ride home. He was already hurrying her along, and she-- 
               "Mr. Vane!" 
               He looked down but could not see her face. It was hanging low over her bosom, which he could feel throbbing against his arm to which she heavily hung. 
               He had won, he knew it, and a smile-that would have graced Satan-passed hurriedly over his face. His triumph, however, was not yet complete; she must humiliate herself before him still more. 
               "You need not fear, Madame," he said, with a voice that betrayed wounded pride, "that I shall force my company upon you all the way back to your home. You need not tell me to stay behind; I assure you you need not. I know my duty and shall faithfully perform it. Since I have grown repulsive-but here is the car: let me take your hand and help you in." 
               She moved a step or two then stopped right short and glanced into his face that was still stern-almost forbidding. She almost quailed under his look. 
               What strange feeling had come over her! What wrong had she done, what crime had she been guilty of, that all the nerve that had sustained her on the most trying occasions before, should have deserted her now? How that man, by some means even not known to herself, had gained an ascendancy over her feelings! 
               She bit her lips in anger for her weakness. She would force herself from his presence at once. Why should she hesitate even for as long as a moment? What was he to her or she to him? No doubt, when once relieved of his company, she could be herself once more; but as long as that splendid, majestic form towered above her head, she could not tear herself loose from his influence. 
               Yes; she would leave him. Her bosom beating even faster than before, but with her head haughtily raised, she said: "In this car, sir!" and moved another step or two forward. 
               "Since you desire us to leave your premises, Madame, have the goodness to inform Mrs. Vane to prepare herself for our departure. You see, Madame, I save you all further excuses for trying to get rid of us. Let me help you in," as the car stopped right opposite to them now. 
               How provoking! How could he have understood her to entertain such an idea! To get rid of them! Was it possible that he really labored under such a mistake, and was completely unconscious-not having intended to insult her-what had really offended her, and to what particular portion of his conduct she had raised such bitter complaints? 
               She could not leave him-another car would be here presently-with so wrong an impression upon his mind. 
               "You mistake me, sir-I'll wait for the next car-in supposing that I sought excuses to get rid of you. Nothing was, nor is now, further from my mind. I had simply reference to the manner of your conduct, as exhibited when you accompanied me to your wife's room-or rather your conduct while you retained me in the hall. I think only a want of respect toward me could have induced you to make thus free with my person. You are the first gentleman, Mr. Vane, since my husband's death, whose lips touched my hand or face. Is it a wonder that I feel mortified? What would you think of me had I passed it over without resenting it?" 
               "If you allow me, Mrs. Harrington," he said, once more passing her arm under his, "but, pray, let us go on and not stay here to be observed by every body-yes, if you allow me to say a few words in my behalf, and you promise to accept them in the same spirit with which I shall utter them, I feel confident-as confident as I have ever felt in my life of any thing-that you will pardon what you had a right to suppose an intended insult to your dignity. But this is scarcely a fit place to speak in of this. Will you, Mrs. Harrington, place sufficient confidence in my honor, in my manhood, to accompany me to a room in the St Nicholas, where we might speak uninterruptedly? But, I beg you, dear Madame, if you do not place implicit confidence in my word, in the honor of my manhood, to say so at once (for I would not have your friendship only lukewarm, but as warm and confiding as your generous nature can bestow it) and decline to give me that conference. I have a great favor to ask of you, and the first moment I beheld you, I resolved to trust in your honest face rather than in that of any being I ever met. Now tell me unreservedly, Madame, will you trust in me?" 
               "Mr. Vane," she replied, after a short pause, "since you intend to honor me with your confidence, and since you have so favorable an opinion of me, though I scarcely deserve it, I will trust in your word and go with you to any place you deem most proper and best suited for this conference. But I assure you, Mr. Vane, I should shrink from accepting such a proposition from you, as I can scarcely convince myself of the propriety of such a step, were it not for the purpose of showing my willingness to serve you as I have promised you before we left home." 
               "Mrs. Harrington, let me assure you that I appreciate this delicacy which, if possible, has increased my respect for you. But here is the St. Nicholas. Let's pass around Spring Street to the Ladies Entrance." 
               Five minutes later Mrs. Harrington, sat in the drawing-room-one of the handsomest furnished rooms in the United States, while Mr. Vane made his way to the clerk's office. 
               "Two rooms, sir," he said. "One for a lady and one for myself. The lady would like to have hers on either the second or third floor, if possible." 
               The clerk looked over his books, and, at length, succeeded to please Mr. Vane with two rooms. 
               "Will you please enter the names?" the clerk said, turning the register toward the latter. 
               "Yes, sir." 
               He took the pen and wrote: 
               Clifford Vane, Cincinnati, O. 
               Miss Marah Koltinzky, Cincinnati, O. 
               "Mrs. Harrington," he said, after he returned to her in the drawing-room, "let me see you to your room. The porter is already in the hall to show us up." 
               Mr. Vane had been successful in gaining a room for her on the second floor. Few minutes' walk and the porter handed them the keys as he pointed to the number over a door before them. 
               "This is your room, madam," he said, then turning to Mr. Vane, "shall I conduct you to yours?" 
               "Not yet. I shall let you know when I am ready to go up." 
               So the porter left them, and they entered the little room, in which Mr. Vane lighted the gas. 
               After admiring the furniture, pictures, etc., Mr. Vane requested Mrs. Harrington to sit down, and take off her bonnet and shawl, which she, however, declined doing. 
               A pause of a minute, then he sat down also, laying his hat on the floor close to the stool by his side. 
               "Mrs. Harrington," he commenced at length, "you wonder perhaps what great service I intend to ask of you, who are almost a stranger to me yet. In answer I must tell you that it is no ordinary favor, but one, which, if you comply with it, will change both your future and mine, and shower wealth upon us-wealth, Madame, for which my soul craves and upon which my heart is resolved. You can see, Madame, that I shall require of you a service beyond the ordinary line, and, though great as it is, I think you will scarcely deny it, when I give you my reasons for having chosen you to serve me rather than others I have known longer. Mrs. Harrington listen to me, for as there is a God in heaven who can read my heart and understand my feelings, I speak to you from my innermost soul and with a mind fully convinced that this moment-right now-must decide my future." 
               There was a strange glow on his cheeks, and as Carrie observed the increasing lustre of his eyes she became uneasy and wished herself back upon the street-back at home. 
               He rose from his chair, and before she had time to put herself on her guard, he-that handsome, earnest and powerful man was upon his knees before her feet, his strangely fascinating eyes, like two bright suns riveted upon her face, and exclaimed with a fervor that thrilled her to the very soul: "Carrie! Carrie! I love you!" 
               Like a flash of lightning she leaped from her chair, throwing him back upon his feet, as she hissed: "Villain! Is it for this you have lured me hither? Get out of my sight and let me pass!" 
               "The door is open, Carrie-go, I shall not hinder you. May God have mercy on my soul, for before you leave this house this room shall contain a corpse." 
               So saying he threw himself upon a chair and heaved a sigh-so sad and dreary a sigh-as if his heart was breaking. 
               Arrived at the door, her hand upon the knob, she paused a moment to look back. Anger was written in every feature of her face, and her large blue eyes, as they riveted their scornful glances upon him, grew fearfully bright and unpleasantly lustrous. From head to foot she was agitated, her breath came fast and in short spasms, and her bosom heaved and swelled, as if its full proportion was too small for the terrible passion storming within. A strange courage had taken possession of her soul and had suppressed every symptom of fear that the first surprise had given birth to. 
               "Villain!" she repeated, a frown upon her brow and a sneer upon her lip, "what a chivalrous deed you have performed! Ain't you ashamed, sir? Say, ain't you ashamed? To deceive a woman who had faith in your honor, in your manhood-manhood!" and she broke out in a short, mocking laugh-"manhood! as if such a wretch could have manhood! Mr. Vane, I despise you! Do you understand? I despise you!" 
               Clifford Vane sat upon his chair without the least sign of emotion or agitation. His handsome face was fronting hers and his eyes calmly and steadily, but not defiantly, met the angry flashes of her own. She had intented to humiliate him and see him stoop, like any other cowardly scoundrel, under the weight of just reproaches. But she had failed. The man had listened to her with a composure and an attention that was extremely irritating. Not once had he blushed; not once had he cowed beneath her angry look. Here he sat-a picture of innocence and honor, handsome and graceful in his repose, thoughtful and silent, and with a mien palpably expressive of a quiet conscience and the nobler traits of human nature. 
               "Yes, I despise you," she repeated, still looking at him, then was silent once more. 
               At this the expression of his face seemed to change; it grew, if possible, calmer, sadder and more thoughtful, while his eyes became so mild and languishing that they seemed to melt away in a bed of bright tears. 
               "Despise me if you will," he replied in a tone low and full of tenderness, "but do not hate me." 
               "Why not hate you? Do you deserve any thing better? I have a good mind to call for the clerk and expose you in his presence." 
               "Madame, you are at liberty to call for whomsoever you choose; I shall not deny any thing. Why should I? Having failed to gain your love, what care I for my honor, my reputation, or my future, as long as I can not share them with you? Look!" and here he raised his head with a conscious animation-"Look! I don't care this much-" and he snapped his fingers, "for what you'll do! Go! call the clerk-what do I care!" 
               There was something reckless in the manner of the delivery of this speech that Carrie Harrington did not fail to notice. It can not be said that she liked him the better for it, but, she thought, if he had cowed beneath her frowns and given signs of feeling humbled, angry as she was, she would have grown still more so, and despised him besides. 
               "What do you care?" she repeated after him. "What do you care? You seem to care for nothing save for the gratification of your vanity and vile passions. I ask you again, Is it for this that you have brought me hither?" 
               "Partly." 
               "Partly!" and once more an ironic, savage, laugh escaped from her lips. "Partly! And did you really think that by falling upon your knees at my feet, and by exclaiming that you love me, I would at once throw myself into your arms and be foolish enough to believe you? Did you really think it?" 
               "I did." 
               Once more their eyes met; hers inquiringly looking into his-his frank, calm, and steady, undergoing the process of her scrutiny, with a wonderful unconcernedness. 
               "You did?" she said after a pause. "What right did you have to think I would believe you? You must have supposed me as deficient of sense as a school-girl, and no less silly and vain." 
               "I thought you a woman," he said hastily and with great animation,-"yes, a woman who could detect by one's very looks the genuine passion from the counterfeit; a woman who could correctly read the human heart and be moved to compassionate rather than hate the man whom her charms had fascinated and made a slave of. Yes, Mrs. Harrington, I gave you credit for all this and more. I did think, as I looked into your eyes, that you were capable of loving, and could sympathize with the man who, blinded by love, had been fool enough to think you had not a heart of stone and that you were susceptible of the tender passion.-Carrie! Carrie!" and he jumped up from his seat, and with flashing eyes and expanding chest-"it consumes me inch by inch-I tell you, inch by inch." 
               He walked up and down the room in hasty strides, his handsome head proudly held erect, while Carrie Harrington still stood at the door, her hand upon the knob, noticing the excitement under which he seemed to labor, with a feeling that gradually overcame her anger. And now she trembled from head to foot and wished that the door near which she stood were between her and him. 
               He stopped in front of her, and as he did so a pang shot through her heart and the hue of death overspread her cheeks. Only for a moment she looked into his eyes, so soft and melting, when the dreamy, long-fringed lids drooped over her own and the blood quickly mounted to her temples. 
               He saw it, and in an instant the whole expression of his face changed. Moving a step nearer he stretched the palm of his hand to her, and, while reproach seemed written in every feature, his voice sounded as sweet and respectful as if his soul was full of love and his mind filled with tender regret. 
               "Mrs. Harrington, forgive me!" he said, dispassionately, with a sad smile upon his face. "I have been too hasty, and suffered my passions to get the better of my reason. I will not excuse myself for I can not. When a man is silly enough to set his heart upon a lady, and think of her as I thought of you, he will run into extremes and not see the error until it is too late. You were fully justified to reproach me, and to suspect my honesty. I should have paid you my addresses in a more becoming manner, and only after a longer acquaintance and an inclination on your part to receive them, had justified me in aspiring to so great-so great a blessing. Therefore forgive me, Mrs. Harrington, and then grant me the favor to see you safe into the street-car. Will you not forgive me?" 
               She raised her head and tried to look severe. But she completely failed in this effort. Anger had ceased to fire her heart, and though she could not acknowledge to herself that she had really forgiven the man, Mr. Vane, at one glance at her soft blue eyes, had seen as much. 
               "Forgive you?" she said, with an offended air, refusing to accept the proffered hand. "No, sir; I will not forgive you. Such outrages can not be forgiven. You had no right to suppose that my affections could be purchased in this manner. I do not wish to be wooed or won, but if I had such a desire, my years-I am no longer a school-girl, Mr. Vane-would teach me to reject a suitor who had so little consideration for the honor of the professed object of his love as you have evinced to me this evening." 
               "I plead guilty, Mrs. Harrington," he replied, in a calm, subdued voice, drawing back his hand, "and therefore will not urge you to forgive me an outrage the magnitude of which I see only now for the first time. But in justice to myself I must defend the motives of my heart. However much you may be justified in blaming my boyish indiscretion-the enthusiasm with which my soul leaped into my words and actions-I can assure you that never were motives purer than those that actuated uated me. I loved you, Mrs. Harrington, the first moment I saw you-" 
               "Pray, speak such soft nonsense into sillier ears," she interrupted him, looking toward the floor, "I do not wish to hear it." 
               "It is no nonsense, Mrs. Harrington; as there is a God in heaven it is no nonsense. I did love you the very first moment I saw you, and I resolved to win you. Here is the whole truth, Madame. I confess it, I did resolve to win you. I had determined upon getting rid of Miss Koltinzky, and to marry you. I was tired of leading this wild life and thought of reforming; yes, of reforming, Mrs. Harrington, for I have been a wicked fellow and have sown for many years my wild oats in profusion. The upshot of this is-I have made a fool of myself. The desire to possess you had grown so strong upon me that I forgot myself, and in the precipitance of my passion to win your love as you had won mine taught you how to hate me." 
               She did not raise her face to meet, his gaze. By the low, soft tone of his voice she could picture to her mind how he must look. She feared that he would draw nearer to her and commit once more some indiscretion. But he kept a proper distance, and quietly waited for a reply, which, after a short pause, she worded: 
               "I do not hate you, Mr. Vane; I hate no man-why should I hate you? More than that. I forgive you, since you seem to feel so great a regret for your hastiness." 
               "Mrs. Harrington, I thank you-could I do more, I would. You are worthy of a better man-O, a far better man than I ever could be were my reformation ever so sincere and thorough." 
               "Mr. Vane, pray do not belittle yourself too much in order to sing my praises. I must not necessarily be an angel because I am not the very opposite. I am simply a woman who tries to follow in the path of respectability, with no other claims that could raise me to the undefiled and sinless. I do not wish however that there should be any ill feelings existing between us: I will therefore not only forgive but even forget the past, and let by-gones be by-gones." 
               "Are you really in earnest, Mrs. Harrington?" 
               "I am." 
               "And will you suffer me to woo you-at least give me an opportunity to prove to you the sincerity of the confession I have so untimely made this evening?" 
               "Why do you insist to provoke me, Mr. Vane?" she replied, with some confusion. "You can not convince me that a young gentleman like yourself, and with the whole world before him, to choose from, should be blind to all the beauties eager to claim him, and find attractions in a widow of my age and who has a daughter old enough to marry. Now if you really do not wish to provoke me again, you will spare your compliments which sound to me, under existing circumstances, like mockery. Come, let us go if you desire to see me to the car." 
               "I go with you presently, Mrs. Harrington," he pleaded, "and if you will oblige me so much as to sit down but for one moment, I will promise you, if you say so, never to refer to this subject again. Pray, Mrs. Harrington-only for a minute-" as she reluctantly permitted him to conduct her back to the same seat from which she had so indignantly risen but a few moments since. He sat down at a proper distance, then continued: "You say, Madame, you are no longer a school-girl, and my confessing to you that I love you sounds like mockery. I dare not give way to my ardor, else I should tell you-upon my knees, I should-how beautiful you are in my eyes. It is true you are no school-girl; but, Madame, Madame-dear Mrs. Harrington-can you be so blind to your charms, grace and physical perfection as to accuse me of insincerity and deception because I have found in you my ideal of what is lovely and beautiful? I, too, have ceased to be in my teens, but my heart is still warm, and is almost consumed by the fire your attractions have kindled in it. I know they are not the attractions of a little girl, but those of a woman-of a handsome woman-the paragon of her sex-in her happiest years. Do not, I pray you, take this, merely as idle compliments, for I swear by all that is holy, I have but confessed to you the secret of my heart. Believe me, trust me, look upon my suit with a favorable eye, and ask of me to die for you and I will do it." 
               He paused, and his fascinating glance rested upon her downcast face with an expression of tenderness that might have melted a heart of stone. She did not look up, however. Yet she was moved; he could see it by the quick swelling and falling of her bosom, over which her head hung in a thoughtful, pensive attitude. It was still in the room; a pin might have been heard to drop on the floor. He could hear the beating of her heart; she was certainly embarrassed and-he would risk it. 
               Yes, he would risk it. 
               He rose from his chair; moved slowly across the room; moved to where she sat growing more and more agitated; knelt down in front of her and- 
               She covered her face with her shawl and began to weep. Clifford Vane smiled, then gently drew nearer and nearer-still upon his knees-and twined his arm around her waist, whispering into her ear, O so sweetly, so tenderly: 
               "Let me love you, Carrie,"-then in a still lower breath-"Let me love you, dearest." 
               He drew still nearer. She began to sob louder, and, while he moved her head upon his broad chest, repeated to her willing ear, in the tenderest expressions, his undying love for her. 
               He had played his part well, and this time he was in no hurry to spoil it. He would be more cautious this time. He would not become too demonstrative-would he not soon be home and have Marah to caress? 
               Only one kiss; he would not risk more; yet that he must have. Be the pay ever so small, some pledge was required to make the contract binding. 
               A contract binding with Clifford Vane! 
               He removed the shawl from the lower part of her face, just sufficiently to expose her lips. "You know I love you, dearest," he whispered, then gently touched her lips. She endured it with a praiseworthy resignation, and fearing that he might repeat the offence she resorted to the expediency of not removing her lips from his as long as they would keep glued together. 
               In the meantime the shawl fell over his face, very annoyingly bringing their cheeks in contact, and drowning every word that we otherwise should have transcribed upon this page. 
             
             
               CHAPTER XIX. 
               A SAD PROSPECT. 
               WHEN Mrs. Harrington returned home that evening she found Adelaide and Marah seated in the little parlor, close by one another, before the window, looking out into the street. 
               "Haven't I been gone very long?" she said, throwing off her shawl and laying it next her bonnet on the center table. "I intended to come back much sooner, but I had so many little things to purchase-it requires so many little things to keep a house always in trim, Mrs. Vane-that I am really astonished to have got through so soon as I did. Well, how have you passed your time? I hope Adelaide has not wearied you with her incessant prattle?" 
               "Indeed not, Mrs. Harrington," Marah replied. "Rather the contrary. I believe I could listen to Adelaide for days, and on every occasion feel a new delight in her conversation. I have promised her-and I hope soon to be able to fulfill it-when Mr. Vane returns with me to Cincinnati to take her along with me, and I am sure she will amuse herself at my father's-for if ever I return to Cincinnati, it will be to see my dear parents-and be honored there as if she were their own child." 
               "Mother, may I go along when Mrs. Vane leaves?" inquired Adelaide, happy at the very thought of being allowed to make a journey. 
               "When the time comes, my daughter," Mrs. Harrington replied, "and Mrs. Vane still insists upon being burdened with your company I will not deprive you of a pleasure a visit to her home must necessarily give you. I only fear you will not know how to behave yourself when so unpreparedly thrown into fashionable society. But if Mrs. Vane is willing to risk you, I shall certainly have no objections to your going." 
               Thus from one subject they passed to another, Mrs. Harrington full of vivacity, doing her utmost to please Marah, who hadn't felt so happy since her flight with Clifford. The clock struck ten and still they sat together, laughing and chatting, unconscious of the terrible doom that awaited them in the future. 
               At length they retired each to her room. Long after Marah and Adelaide had gone to sleep Mrs. Harrington lay still awake thinking with pleasure and apprehension equally divided, of the interview she had had with Clifford Vane. 
               He had promised to marry her; to make her his honest wife and become a good father to her daughter. This thought made her happy, and frequently a smile flitted over her handsome features, and made her heart leap for joy as she remembered with what an undisguised passion he had confessed his love for her-for her! for Carrie Harrington. 
               Forty-five-but what woman is too old to believe that she has outlived her charms? Forty-five-but did he not swear that she was handsomer in his eyes than any girl he had ever seen? And how could she doubt him, when he had sworn by all that's holy-yes, upon his knees he had sworn it-that she had stolen his peace by day, and his sleep by night, and that her image followed him wherever he went? Forty-five, and still happy-happy as a school-girl so deprecatingly mentioned by him, and at this moment, so bitterly envied by Madame Forty-five. 
               She rose from her bed, noiselessly crossed to the center of the room and lighted the wax taper standing on the table. 
               A moment later, she stood, in her long flowing robe of white, before the mirror. 
               Yes, she smiled, and a glance of triumph shot from her eyes, as she viewed herself in the mirror, that told her she had not yet lost the charms that had made Clarence Broadwell faithless to his Hannah. 
               Once more it is dark in her room, and she has sought her couch. But still she could not sleep. There was something else upon her mind that would not let her rest. 
               Clifford Vane had made her his confidante; had told her his plans and projects, and she had promised to aid him in their execution. 
               How her heart beat! Events-long past and almost forgotten-events of her younger years-things connected with the saddest days of her wicked life-now came back afresh to her memory to torment her. 
               And then she thought of Marah, and now pitied her-now feared her. She had watched the play of her dark gray eyes and had discovered a dangerous fire lurking in them which she dreaded to fan into a flame. 
               And yet she was irrevocably pledged to further Clifford's plan, and cost it what it would she was now determined to go on, and either sink or swim with him. 
               But what would Marah do? What would become of her when she discovered herself to have been the victim of a conspiracy that made her mistress instead of wife of Clifford Vane! 
                
               Would she return to her home broken-hearted to die, or would she become the avenging Nemesis of their lives and follow their footsteps to the grave? 
               Carrie Harrington knew not-did not care to know. She felt at this moment that the peace of her existence was staked, and that she had thrown herself into a vortex of blood, and that she had linked her destiny with a man who was capable of committing any crime under the sun. 
               With what coolness, with what deliberation he had explained to her a plan the boldest would shrink from conceiving, and none but Clifford Vane would dare to execute. 
               And yet she loved that man-loved him for his intrepidity-loved him for his recklessness. 
               And again the mirror of her mind was filled with images of individuals who had been so disastrously connected with her destiny. 
               Edgar Armhold-Reuben Armhold-Reuben Armhold-Hark! 
               A low whistle thrice repeated. 
               She steals from her bed, and noiselessly opens the window. 
               She hastily throws a gown over her, leaves the room, hurries down stairs, and disappears through the front door. 
               Misfortunes never come alone. 
               It was dark-very dark on the street: the lamps stood far apart and threw but a pale light from them, yet had it been ten times as dark, she could not have been mistaken in that lank figure against the wall but a few paces from the door. After looking in both directions to satisfy herself that no one was approaching, she drew nearer and hissed, in an undertone: 
               "Good God! what has brought you back?" 
               "What? Look!" and he laughed, so fiendishly mocking, that the blood turned cold in her veins. "Look! Can you see these tattered clothes? This dirty, unwashed shirt? These pants in shreds? This shabby hat? Can you see all these and still ask me what has brought me back? Fool!" and, shoving his hands deep down into his pockets, and looking groundward, laughed again. "I came back," he added in an unpleasant, guttural sound, "because I had no money to stay away. Do you hear, Mrs. Astrologist? Because I had no money to stay away. So I've come back-you see I've come back to the rich Mrs. Carrie Harrington." 
               "Have you not promised me never to show your face again in this city?" she said in anger, her face pale as death. 
               "And supposing I have?" he replied savagely. "Have you never made promises and afterward broke them? What right have you to take me to task for them? Supposing I have? What will you do? Punish me for it? Look at me-" and he raised himself up so she might have a better view of him-"look at me, and see to what you have brought me. And you dare to upbraid me?" 
               She trembled and a sharp pang shot through her heart. 
               "What do you want? Tell me quickly-it is late, and I would not be seen here for much at this late hour of the night." 
               Again that uncouth, chuckling laugh. 
               "And you would not be seen here for much at this late hour of the night?" he repeated after her. "Wouldn't you? O, you are a splendid woman! And you have grown ashamed of me-have you? Ain't I fallen much-ain't I, Carrie-when you are ashamed of me? Carrie Harrington ashamed of me-ha-ha-ha!" 
               "Tell me, tell me, what you want of me," she said, suffering the greatest uneasiness, lest Mr. Vane should return to see her with-this man. 
               "What I want? What I want? Want lots! but first I want to get in!" 
               "In where?" 
               "In this house." 
               Carrie Harrington almost sank to the ground. It took some time before she had composed herself sufficiently to answer him. 
               "You can not be serious. Here, wait but for one moment, and I will fetch you some money so you leave me till morning, when I will come to see you and satisfy your demands." 
               She was about to return into the house, but he stopped her-stopped her by taking hold of one of her hands. 
               "What are you doing?" he said. 
               "I'm going after some money for you," fell whisperingly from her ashy white lips. "Some money till to-morrow, when I shall come to see you-just tell me where-it matters little, I'll come." 
               He still retained his hold. 
               "You needn't come; I'll stay here, yes, I'll stay here." 
               "Don't drive me mad, man!" she hissed, trembling with fear, "I can't let you in." 
               "Why? Have you some other lodger with whom my presence might interfere? I tell you what it is, Carrie, I'll be mum, very mum. You know what we know." And he chuckled again, and then he grew somewhat serious, as he added, "And to-morrow is my birthday! Forty-eight! Think of that, Carrie, only forty-eight, and a constitution of a man of ninety!" and shaking his head, sadly-"and all this your doing-all your doing." 
               She looked at him a moment, felt the cold, clammy hand that had held hers release its grasp, and- 
               "Come in." 
               She opened the door for him to enter. A moment later all was still again upon the street, but a shadow that had seemed stationary until then began to move and Clifford Vane emerged from a side entrance into which he had ensconced himself rather than to disturb the strange tte a-tte he had been witnessing, with no little interest, for some time. 
               "And this old jade," he muttered to himself, "has a lover-this saintly widow?" and he smiled as he thought of the sport he had had with her. 
               Mr. Vane was determined not to enter the house, but would see how long the stranger would remain-whether he would stay all night (a thing not very likely) or leave shortly. In the latter case he would see who he was and follow him, as the information might some day be useful. It would not hurt at all events. As regards to jealousy-such a thing was not in his composition. 
               He had to wait nearly a full hour before the door opened once more, and the stranger stole out into the street. The door was noiselessly closed behind him, and all was still again. 
               Clifford Vane emerged from his hiding place and at a short distance followed the stranger. 
               First through one street, then through another, and so on until they gained Broadway. Here Clifford Vane quickened his pace, and a short time brought him side by side to the stranger. Broadway is always fairly lighted up by nights-it was so on that night-and they had just come opposite a lamp-post, and Clifford Vane, could have a good view of the stranger's face, by the bright light that fell upon it. 
               One look and he was satisfied that Mrs. Harrington could never love that man. For he was unprepossessing and pock-marked, and had the appearance of belonging to the lowest type of the human family. Every thing corresponded with his looks. The shreds and rags that covered his ungainly form, his unshaven face, and uncombed hair, his torn and mudcovered boots, his shuffling gait-every thing spoke of the wretchedness of this strange man. 
               Clifford Vane had seen enough. He fell back a pace to let him quietly pass on, while he would follow at a safe distance until he had seen where he would finally stop. He had expected to see a fair looking man-a man upon whom a woman like Mrs. Harrington might have thrown herself away; some dare-devil; some reckless adventurer-it would not have surprised him much; but the sight of this man sharpened his sense of curiosity. 
               What mysterious link could unite these two human beings together? What interest could they have in common? Why should they so clandestinely meet in the heart of night when innocence and virtue lie in soft repose, and only guilt and crime sneak from their cave and haunt the darkness like some restless ghost? 
               Clifford Vane could not tell, but that something of more than ordinary nature linked these two human beings together, was self-evident to him. 
               He ought to be home; Marah might not be asleep yet-might still be waiting for him. 
               No matter. He would see that man home first, if home he went-if not, wherever he would turn his steps. 
               The stranger crossed Broadway; Clifford Vane did the same. A space of about five feet separated them. The street upon which they were now was entirely deserted. So still it was that nothing could be heard save the footfall of the two pedestrians. On they went-first the stranger then the other. 
               They passed through Chatham Street. 
               They came to the Points. 
               It was quieter there than on any other street, but it was a quietness that was oppressive, suggesting unpleasant thoughts. No lamps were lit there, yet Clifford Vane could not help but see, as he passed a low white fence, behind the opening of a low gate, several figures stealing to and fro in the dark, like some restless spirits from the nether-world, bent upon mischief. No, he could not help seeing it, no more than he could have helped from hearing the whispers that greeted him from every direction, though he could not tell whence these sounds came. 
               Close to one of these Points are two low and dirty frame shanties, occupied as grog-shops of the lowest description. None but the vilest of the vile ever visit them-wretches who had already in their infancy committed crimes that had damned them forever, but which were deeds of mercy to those that stained their manhood afterward-and yet these vile creatures, this scum of humanity-these hideous night-assassins seemed angels in comparison to their regular inmates, and in visiting them gave these dens of vice a claim to respectability. 
               The one nearest the Point had a dim light burning in the front room, where several barbarous looking wretches sat around a table talking to one another. Clifford Vane fairly shook as he saw their faces; there was something so revolting about them that they inspired him with an unnatural feeling of disgust. 
               The stranger had already passed that horrid house and was nearly at the Point when, of a sudden, he turned around, passed Clifford Vane, but as he did so riveted a pair of deep, piercing black eyes upon his face, then-was lost. 
               When Clifford Vane looked back-which he feared to do for a minute-all was silent as the grave and he the sole possesser of the Points. 
               He had seen enough-more than enough; he would not stay another minute. It mattered little into which den that wretch had retreated, it could not be a worse one than the one to which he was now returning. What but the deepest crime could connect the astrologist's home with the grog-shops near the Points? 
               He smiled-the smile that would not have disgraced the fierce faces he had just seen-and he hastened from the visinity in which, though he did not dream of it, he was destined, at some future time, to witness one of the most tragic scenes that ever electrified and startled a community. 
               Yes, he smiled. In what better hands could he have intrusted his affairs? Who could assist sist him like Carrie Harrington? Who could teach him better the intricate paths of crime? 
               Up to this moment he had thought her a silly, old fool-but now-his eyes opened wide by what he had seen-he began to feel that he had to deal with a woman who was far too deep even to be penetrated by him. 
               He began to respect, aye, admire her. And yet she had one weakness; he was certain of it: she loved him!
                
               He paused and grew thoughtful. Could he be certain of it? Or did she really blind him, while he labored under the impression of having benighted her? 
               No, no; he was sure that he had left a firm and favorable impression upon her. 
               Thus occupied in reviewing the incidents of this to him so eventful evening he reached his lodging, little suspecting however of having been followed back to the very door of Mrs. Harrington's house by the same stranger, the last sight of whom he had so mysteriously lost near the grog-shop at the Points. 
             
             
               CHAPTER XX. 
               THE PLOT IS THICKENING. 
               AT breakfast, on the following morning, Clifford Vane, seated near Marah, could not refrain from looking upon Mrs. Harrington's placid countenance. Not the least sign of uneasiness could he detect upon it. Her pretty blue eyes, as usual, soft and winsome; her brow smooth, and her lips, not unfrequently-but only when occasion permitted it-wreathed in some pleasant smile. She talked, as usual, without the least constraint or forgetfulness, and, closely as he watched the expression of her face, he never found it, even for a moment, to betray what might be agitating her heart and engaging-perhaps tormenting-her mind. 
               It was a beautiful morning this fifth of September morning, and Marah was speaking about walking out, but regretted to have no one to accompany her, as Mr. Vane had to attend to his duties, Adelaide had to go to school, and Mrs. Harrington would not be likely, even if she could make it convenient to go-to intrust the house to the servant. 
               "Why not?" said Carrie. "The girl-" referring to the servant-"has come to me well recommended, and I can place all confidence in her. She is honest and trustworthy, and I have no fears to intrust her with the house. If you wish to go out, Mrs. Vane, I will most cheerfully accompany you. The weather-" and she looked toward the window, through which the golden sunbeams threw a mellow light-"promises to become lovely to-day. You have not seen much of the city yet-Mr. Vane being so busy to better attend to your pleasures-I will, at least for this day, be your chaperon. At what time will it suit you to start? But-"and here she interrupted herself and smiled-"we can settle that between ourselves after Mr. Vane is gone to his business and Adelaide has left for school." 
               Mr. Vane contracted his brows and an ugly frown became visible over the ridge of his nose. None observed it however-a fortunate occurrence, it must be confessed-taking his condition and designs in due consideration. He evidently did not approve, for some reasons best known to himself, of the proposed walk. But he said nothing in relation to it, but joined, at appropriate times, with some remarks, in the lively conversation, the three ladies found difficult-so much had each to say, upon the most trivial suggestion-to bring to a close. 
               They were still seated around the table-Carrie Harrington had just been promising Adelaide to take her to the theater that night if Mr. Vane would only be kind enough to call for them at the close of the performance-when the bell rang. It caused a lull in the conversation. Carrie Harrington was all attention. She held the spoon suspended in her hand half way from the table and her lips, while her eyes were inquiringly turned toward the door. 
               "What urgent business can bring me so early a visitor?" she mused. 
               Marah was all attention too. She had turned as pale as a corpse, and at the first ring of the bell a pang had shot through her heart and made her pulse beat faster. 
               Could it be some one from home? Her father-or some person commissioned by him to visit her? She wished-she feared it might be so. 
               Unlike her hostess she stooped her head very low-looked intently into her coffee-cup, nor did she muster sufficient courage to raise her eyes, or feel relieved in the least, until the servant entered with a note for her mistress. 
               "Who is out?" inquired Mrs. Harrington. 
               "A little boy, ma'am. He told me to give you this note, and he wants an answer. 
               Mrs. Harrington tore the envelope open and hastily scanned over the few lines written with a pencil upon a small sheet of note-paper. "What answer-what excuse can I give her?" and she shook her head as if perplexed and disappointed, and handed the note to Mr. Vane, who read its contents, which were as follows, aloud: 
               
                   
                      
                         
                           
                              "MY DEAR FRIEND-
                            
                           "I am sick-need I tell you how sick?-and not a woman about me to prepare for me a cup of tea or a spoonful of soup, if I should be weak enough to crave the one or the other. Poor John has sent a telegram to Marie, who is expected by the evening train. O, do come and stay with me until then, and accept the blessings of your 
                           
                              EMMA LLOYD. 
                               
                                 "Jersey City, Thursday morning." 
                              
                            
                         
                      
                  
                
               After the reading of this note Carrie Harrington once more asked-but rather as if she was addressing herself-what she should do? She hated to go, she said, and yet Emma- 
                
               "you know dear Emma, Adelaide?"-was so great, so good and faithful a friend to her that she felt like committing a great wrong were she to refuse going to the poor, sick woman. What should she do? How could she really think of going and neglect what attention she owed to Mr. and Mrs. Vane? No; her mind was made up. She would write a few lines to her friend Emma, excusing herself as best she could, by stating the circumstances in which she was placed. 
               So saying she was about to rise from her chair, but Mr. Vane insisted upon her to remain until she had heard what he had to remark. To which she replied, that she did not wish to be discourteous, and would, therefore, retain her seat provided he would not try to dissuade her from her purpose as she had resolved to stay at home with Mrs. Vane. 
               Here Clifford Vane interrupted: "But Mrs. Vane will insist upon your going to your friend. I know Marah has too much sympathy for the sick lady than to deprive her of the only assistance she can call upon." 
               Still Mrs. Harrington remained undecided, and only after Marah had urged her to comply with her sick friend's request, she gave in and wrote a note that she should cross the Pavonia Ferry in less than an hour. 
               Thus ended the breakfast. Marah and Clifford retired to their room, and Mrs. Harrington made preparations to start. After giving the servant the necessary instructions-after kissing her daughter and telling her not to go to school that day-after bidding farewell to one and all, promising to return soon, perhaps by noon, certainly not later than four o'clock, she left the house and walked, rather briskly, down street, where she waited for the 'bus to take her to the Pavonia Ferry?-no, but to the shop of Madame Durande the perfumer on Grand-street. 
               On that same morning, something like an hour later, a lady, handsomely attired, drove up to the St. Nicholas. Introduced in the ladies' parlor she sent for one of the proprietors who shortly after made his appearance respectfully inquiring after her wishes. 
               The lady seemed somewhat embarrassed and nearly a minute elapsed before she said: 
               "I should like to engage a room, sir, if you will have the kindness to promise me protection against-" and here she broke down, and only by strong efforts succeeded to repress her tears. But she soon recovered her composure sufficiently to confide in the gentleman part of her history, which was: that she had been indiscreet enough to leave her father's house, against that father's will, with a gentleman who had won her heart, but in whom, she was sorry to have to say it, she had been sadly disappointed. She regretted the step she had taken and had notified her father, whose only child she was, of her readiness to fall at his feet and return home with him, and that she expected him there within a week's time if not sooner. In the meantime, she desired to receive some protection against the persecutions of Mr. Vane-the gentleman with whom she had eloped-who would try his utmost to see her, but that she would only give him audience in the presence of her father and never in any other's. 
               By this time the lady was in tears, and though her face was covered with a vail, the gentleman could not help seeing them as well as the handsome features over which they trickled down. She also told him that she had been there a night previous but was afraid to stay as Mr. Clifford Vane had remained in the same hotel; so she had gone to the Fifth Avenue Hotel whither he had followed her. Now she had returned here with the intention of supplicating for his protection. 
               The proprietor was no less moved by her story than flattered by her confidence, and promised that she should not be molested by Mr. Vane, nor should he be allowed an interview with her without first having obtained her previous consent. 
               "Your name?" he added. 
               "Marah Koltinzky." 
               She thanked him from her heart and kissed his hand, then suffered a female waiter to conduct her to a room-the same one she had occupied on the previous evening-who had no sooner retired than she locked the door, and, after drawing a long breath, whispered: "Here at last!" 
               So saying she removed the vail, and exhibited the face-made youthful through pomade and rouge-of CARRIE HARRINGTON. 
             
             
               CHAPTER XXI. 
               LIGHT AND DARKNESS. 
               ADELAIDE did not go to school that day; she remained at home, as her mother had instructed her to do, to keep Marah company. Shortly after Mrs. Harrington had gone away Mr. Vane also took his departure, but not until he had gone in search of Adelaide, whom he found in her own little room, where he had the following conversation with her: 
               "Adelaide," he said, approaching to where she stood, replacing her school-books into her bureau, "I am going away now. Mrs. Vane is quite alone; will you oblige me by going up to her room some times during the day?" 
               She looked around for the purpose of answering him that she intended to stay with Mrs. Vane until it should please the latter to dismiss her, but on beholding Mr. Vane's close proximity to herself, she simply said, "More room, if you please, sir," and laughed. 
               Clifford Vane smiled in return, and retired a few paces. 
               "This for my being a married man," he said, looking upon her lovely pale face that was turned with a childlike frankness toward his dissembling one. "A handsome young gentleman-some roguish school-mate-I have no doubt, would not have heard you say, 'more room, if you please, sir!'" And he smiled again as he added, "if he even had been guilty of snatching a kiss from your lips. Or would he?" 
               Adelaide, as stated elsewhere, was only fifteen and as innocent as a child of five. Whatever blameworthy might with justice be brought against Mrs. Harrington's character, she raised and educated her daughter with a view to virgin-purity, and kept her away from all influences that might have tainted her morals. So Adelaide blushed scarlet and modestly drooped her eye-lashes. This lovely girl had no sweet-heart-had never thought of having one, and Mr. Vane had seen as much in an instant. He could tell a genuine diamond from a paste. What a difference there was between mother and daughter! 
               "Adelaide," he said, tenderly, "you are a good girl, and I like you for it. This blush upon your face makes you look lovelier by far than all the smiles my remark might have called upon your cheeks. This modesty becomes you well, and is a charm, I trust, for your mother's sake-for your sake-you may never lose." Once more he moved to where she stood, her head drooped low over her heaving bosom, and taking her right hand gently in his, added: "You have no father, Adelaide-" here the girl turned pale and her nicely chiseled lips began to quiver with suppressed emotion-"who can watch over you, and you are growing into a young lady now, and soon your beauty will attract the attention of my sex. This is a period fraught with great danger, Adelaide, especially to those who are innocent like yourself. You need protection so you may not become the prey of some designing knave whose tongue your charms might make prodigal with words of love-such words, my Adelaide-that are, oh, so pleasant to listen to, and which steal into our hearts and send the blood hot and tickling through our veins. I take an interest in your welfare, Adelaide-I know not how it is, your sense of modesty and your sweetness of temper have enlisted my warmest sympathy for your welfare-for your happiness. Be always good, be always virtuous, and you will be your mother's comfort in her old age as you are her pride now. For you are beautiful, Adelaide-you need not blush on account of what I'm saying, foolish girl-and a happy, innocent heart speaks through your eyes. May you never have occasion to cast down those eyes on account of a deed-of a thought unworthy of you. May never any one come between you and happiness-for you are a sweet child, Adelaide, deserving of a blissful life. Now, do me the favor to see Marah sometimes during the day, and I will leave you." 
               So saying he shook her delicate little hand, and retired from the room. A few moments later the house-door's clanking sound told her that Clifford Vane had emerged into the street. 
               Adelaide, for some time, stood motionless upon the very spot where she had listened, with so much attention, to those strange words. They had moved an untouched chord in her young heart. How nicely-how tenderly-how affectionately he had spoken to her! What a show of feeling and concern he had evinced for her! He is a noble gentleman-a gentleman who speaks so prettily and without the least affectation. What a warm heart he must have to take so great an interest in her! And he had said that she was beautiful! Yes, lovely-so lovely that men would fall in love with her. 
               She blushed and her pulse began to beat a little faster, then she walked over to the looking-glass and-blushed still more. 
               He had said 'I was beautiful.' 
               She left the mirror, her young heart filled with a happiness she could not explain to herself. She felt like singing and she sang-sang with a sweetness that would have put to shame the best efforts of the most accomplished prima donna. Had he not said that she was beautiful, and was that not enough to raise a delightful sensation in her bosom? What cared she whether Mr. Clifford Vane was a single or a married man! At this moment it made no difference to her. She was happy, that was all, and began to love the man-without knowing or understanding it, however-for the kind, sweet words he had addressed to her. 
               Once more she looked into the mirror, and this time she permitted herself to take a good survey not much unlike the one her mother had taken the night previous, and she was no less satisfied with the inspection. 
               Marah, however, seated in her room by herself, an uncut novel lying near her, was in a less happy mood than her hostess's daughter. Lively and communicative as she had been at breakfast, she had no sooner returned to her own apartments than she felt a peculiar sense of depression steal over her. Mr. Vane now being gone, this feeling increased and tears gathered in her eyes. She had been trying, ever since she had arrived in New York, to persuade herself that she was not homesick, and that she was as happy as it is in the reach of human beings to become. As long as Clifford Vane was by her side, speaking to her with his peculiarly engaging tenderness and lovingly looked into her large gray eyes, she felt content-more than content; but when he was away and she was by herself, even sometimes in the presence of Carrie Harrington or her daughter, she would become depressed in spirit, and the recollection of home with all its comforts-the home the best of parents had prepared for her-would awaken unpleasant thoughts in her mind, and she would reproach herself, with tears in her eyes, for having so shamefully deserted her old father and mother. It is true Clifford Vane was kind to her, and the affection he had professed for her had not yet grown lukewarm-had not yet, as far as she could detect-abated in its warmth. And yet-and yet-there seemed something missing-a something she could not well define-something in addition to a thorough reconciliation with her deeply grieved and offended parents-to complete her happiness. What it was she scarcely knew herself. She feared to ask her own heart lest the answer might be productive of more sadness and rather feed than allay the partially awakened spirit of discontent. Was Clifford Vane's love to her not as great as she had imagined it to be? She thought she could answer with safety that she had not been mistaken in him as regards his loving her; but yet-but yet-- 
               She would shake her head-shake it thoughtfully-doubtfully. There was about his general conduct too much gallantry of the courtier and too little of the confidence of the husband. She had expected that he would share his thoughts with her-as her father had done with her mother-and that in participating in each other's speculations a new interest would thereby be created and become, as it were, a link between them to unite their hearts still closer together. She remembered how her father had often sat between herself and mother, the very embodiment of peace and contentment, relating circumstances of great interest, and how at times, the subject had turned upon matters of more immediate concern to themselves, when both wife and daughter were consulted and made to feel and understand that they were more than either mere drudges or playthings. There had been something social-holy in that household. One had felt at home there; it had had all its comforts, confidingnesses and sympathies of united hearts. There had been gentleness, love and harmony without the least show of ceremony; in short, there she had felt like being at home and among homefolk; but here-she sighed. 
               The door opened, and in came Adelaide, like a fairy, happiness beaming in her eyes, and laughing in the pretty dimples of her fair and translucent cheeks. 
               "We have all the house to ourselves to-day," she said, entering, her sweet voice made sweeter by her heart's newly awakened joy. "Mr. Vane gone-mother gone-everybody gone: for the servant will have to go to the market, then repair to the kitchen, so we won't see much of her either: how will we pass our time, I wonder?" and she sat down close to Marah and, without waiting for a reply, seeing the uncut novel lying beside her, picked it up, as she added: 
               "O, what's this? A novel-I wish I could read it? I should so much like to read novels, but mother won't let me: she says I'm too young to read them." 
               "Your mother, Adelaide, may be right," Marah replied, "but I disagree with her. I was once of the same opinion, and, I doubt not, should be of the same opinion still, though I am passionately fond of reading novels and would perhaps read them notwithstanding my own disapproval of such indulgence, had not a gentleman-friend of mine, in my presence, while arguing the point, so successfully defended the practice that I became perfectly convinced not only of the propriety but also of the advantage one derives in making oneself familiar with the master-works of prose fiction." 
               "I wish some one would convince mother of it; but I fear whosoever would undertake to shake her belief, would meet with little success, for I've begged and begged and begged again, but to no purpose. I believe I could get her to permit me to indulge in almost anything else, but as to reading novels, I only need to mention the subject if I want to get her out of humor." 
               "I can not see, Adelaide," Marah replied, "what great objection she could really have in your reading books from some of the most celebrated and standard authors." 
               Adelaide smiled. 
               "Celebrated and standard authors!" she said. "Would you believe it, Mrs. Vane, that mother objects most of all to those celebrated authors?" 
               "Why? It is really strange, and your mother is so intelligent a lady." 
               "O, she read novels continually, and there is no end to the papers she keeps. But as regards to the objections she has to have me become familiar with the most noted writers is simply this: 'They are too free,' she says, 'and sometimes not very choice in the language they make use of, and they treat upon subjects of which children should not be made acquainted.' Such and a thousand other such excuses she is always ready to advance, and when I tell her, in urging my side of the question, that I can't for the world of me see what wrong there possibly could be in learning as a child what it would not harm me to know as a woman, she answers to the effect: that it is time enough to learn the wickedness of the world when we have to come in contact with it and not accept a wrong impression of either that is good or bad by exaggerated statements and inconceivably unnatural character-paintings. But what, Mrs. Vane, had your friend said so successfully in defence of his position that he should have been able to convince you of the correctness of his point of view? I should really like to know. Please tell me." 
               "Since you like to hear it, and since we have nothing better to do," Marah replied, regaining to some extent her good humor, "I will tell you-that is, I will try to remember some few points he had made to strengthen his opinion, and which to me seemed so conclusive. The conversation, Adelaide, took place at my father's house, and originated from one of the guests-a lady on a visit to us from the country-who had seen "The Desert of the Heart," a novel, by Edgar Armhold, lying upon our table, when she said: 'I hope, Marah, you have not been reading this outrageous story-or have you? I had purchased a copy of it myself, but I had no sooner read a few lines in it, than I became so disgusted with it that I at once consigned it to the flames. Have you really read that book? Have you really-but pray don't own it if you have!' I had read the book, and even if I had felt inclined to deny it, which was far from my intentions, however, I should not have been able to do it, for I felt at the moment, that the blush which had risen to my face and I could see, from where I sat, in the mirror that hung on the opposite wall direct in front of me, had confessed the act. I acknowledged that I had read the novel and then-you ought to have seen, Adelaide-how that pious lady broke out in exclamations of astonishment, and how her eyes were almost piercing me. I felt really uncomfortable, and was ready-though I don't know to this day why, for I had enjoyed the perusal of the book most extremely-to utter an apology for what I had been guilty of, in saying that I had not been familiar with the subjectmatter of this novel, else I should never have read or even purchased it, when, to my greatest satisfaction-and this before I had time to utter the first syllable, Mr. Aaron (an Israelite as the name itself tells you) who had heard the conversation, came to my rescue and took up the gauntlet so vauntingly thrown at my feet. 
               "'I have also read 'The Desert of the Heart,' Mrs. Flintweasel,' he said, 'and I must confess few works of fiction have ever pleased me better. I can not see why you should call it an 'outrageous story' and unfit to be perused by a lady.' 
               "At this Mrs. Flintweasel almost flew in a passion, but she restrained herself sufficiently to assume a calm she was far from feeling. She prided herself of observing on all occasions the greatest propriety, though the least contradiction could nettle her, but she generally abstained from giving vent to her spleen and anger, and appeared satisfied with indulging in a sneer. On such occasions the thin sallow face would become thinner and sallower, and her sharp pointed chin and nose would grow, to all appearances, sharper and more pointed. 
               "'You can not see why I should call it an outrageous story?' she retorted, her face undergoing that peculiar transformation. 'I am really astonished at you, Mr. Aaron. And you profess to say that you found pleasure in perusing it! I am sincerely sorry to hear it-I assure you I am, Mr. Aaron. It will certainly not redound to your credit. But as to being fit even to be looked at by a lady-a lady who pretends to have the least claim to a reputation for modesty, is a thing I never-no, never, never-thought any gentleman would have the boldness-you see, Mr. Aaron, I call it by a mild name-to assert.' 
               "My friend was still unperturbed, and I felt, though he had not yet assigned any reasons, that he would come out victor at the end of this controversial duel." 
               "'I have no sister, Mrs. Flintweasel;' he said coolly, 'to whom I could recommend that work, but if I had one I should take pride to have her read it, without entertaining the least fear that her modesty would suffer-though that what may pass in your estimation for modesty-would feel itself considerably outraged. If you would only have the kindness to point out to me any thing for which the author should be censured and a lady should blush, I should be willing-provided I could not controvert it-to acknowledge my wrong and cheerfully acquiesce in your what I now, though I regret to say it, must consider a very hastily formed and unjust judgment.' 
               "'I believe I should die for shame to discuss some of the scenes-they are so free-O, how shockingly free, and then the expressions-no, indeed-may I be spared from repeating such outrageous words;' and Mrs. Flintweasel shook her doll-face, as if horror-struck even by entertaining such an idea. 
               "I must tell you, Adelaide," Marah added parenthetically, "that Mrs. Flintweasel was a highly esteemed church member, strict in observing and demanding the observance of all the canons of her particular religious advisers, conceding nothing, but denouncing everything not approved by herself or particular creed as dangerous and heretical. She opposed dancing, theatres-amusements of all descriptions, and only felt in her right element, and thought she was serving her god in showing and expressing-with all the sanctimoniousness of her most sanctimonious nature-her horror of such wicked practices. In the city and at our house she was addressed as Mrs. Flintweasel, but in the country-some forty miles east of Cincinnati-where she had been raised, married, and had become mother; where she had received her limited education, and had had inculcated in her mind some of the most narrow puritanical prejudices-she was called 'Sister Liza Jane.' Mr. Aaron had known her for years and was not unacquainted with her great pride in her church membership and with her still greater pride in having it known that she was one of the few who had a special seat reserved for her in heaven-owing to her serene face and up-turned eyes entitled to the nearest to the 'Father's', whose special care she flattered herself to be." 
               "Why, Mrs. Vane," interupted Adelaide, "I have never yet heard you speak so caustic. You are not a Christian?" This timidly. 
               "No, Adelaide, I am a Jewess. Can you not see it in the expression of my face?" 
               Adelaide, laboring under the same impression as the most of the Gentiles, that the descendants of Jacob are ashamed to be called Jews, felt considerably embarrassed, but managed, while she played with the uncut edges of the novel, to stammer, apologetically: 
               "Yes." 
               "Well, since you have discovered that I can be a little caustic, Adelaide, and since time don't press us much, I will continue--but, perhaps I'm getting tiresome--" 
               "O, Mrs. Vane, continue," Adelaide begged most earnestly. "You don't know how much I do love to hear you. Mother almost looks upon me as a baby still and never satisfies my desire after knowledge, but keeps me as ignorant of every thing that is going on that I am so glad that she will not introduce me to any of the gentlemen who sometimes call to see her. I would cut so ridiculous a figure. So go on, I pray you, Mrs. Vane, for I feel more than interested in this what must have been an animated discussion between Mrs. Flintweasel and Mr. Aaron." 
               Marah needed no second invitation. She proceeded forthwith. 
               "Since you wish me to continue," she said, "I will do so, and whenever you have heard enough or I have wearied you, you have but to intimate it to be relieved. Mr. Aaron had not known Mrs. Flintweasel's peculiarities any better than she had known his. In her eyes he was an infidel, and therefore under the special protection of his majesty reigning over the land of sulphur and brimstone. Their acquaintance dated back many years, and she had frequently met him at some of her neighbors, and had even given him invitations to call at her house (only a short distance from where he had resided) and which invitation, induced by the charms of her daughter, he had on several occasions availed himself of. 
               "No sooner had she said 'I believe I should die for shame to discuss some of the scenes-they are so free-O, how shockingly free, and then the expressions-no, indeed-may I be spared from repeating such outrageous words,' than Mr. Aaron, half smiling, yet with palpable animation, followed her upturned eyes for a minute, then the half proud-half pitying smile disappeared from around his lips, and, growing more interested in the subject, he replied: 'Knowing me as long as you do, and having, I trust, always conducted myself in your presence in a manner not to disgrace my manhood or to forfeit the enviable claim to your esteem, I feel persuaded to believe that whatever remarks I might indulge in will not be misconstrued in a desire on my part to show the least disrespect to a lady who would have a right to despise me were I disposed to indorse, merely to please her, sentiments which she had uttered and are against my own convictions, and which would be a disgrace to her, had she not misunderstood the author's aim and would not entertain a wrong conception of our duties, aims, and ends.' 
               "At this Mrs. Flintweasel gave evidences of uneasiness-almost of irritability. She became restless, and while her hands searched for employment, now here now there, but never stopping at a single place for a second at a time, her eyelids began to wag faster and her large yellow eyes, now turned a dull green, blinked and brightened. 
               "'Do I understand you to say,' she commenced, in a quick, clear-almost shrill tone, 'that a lady-I mean a lady and not what the unregenerated might be pleased to nickname a lady-can read Mr. Armhold's 'Desert of the Heart' without blushing and feeling a sense of shame come over her?' 
               "'I do,' he said, calmly. 
               "'And even could repeat them-those horrible words-in the presence of gentlemen?' 
               "'I do.' 
               "'You do? Do you?' 
               "'Yes. And I will tell you why, Madame,' he replied, perceptibly warming up in this subject. 'It is simply from the fact that Mr. Armhold has drawn his characters from Nature, and made them speak and do what his wide experience has taught him that they would speak and do in the places and under the circumstances in which he has introduced them to us.' 
               "'Do you mean to tell me, Mr. Aaron,' Mrs. Flintweasel incredulously and with a bitter smile around her lower lip, remarked, 'that such characters-such low and lewd characters do exist, and that it is right to use such vulgar, obscene language as he makes them utter?' 
               "'As regards the existence of such characters, Madame, permit me to tell you, as I have remarked before, there is not a doubt-a shadow of a doubt-of his correctness. As regards the language he has laid in their mouths, not only do I find it consistent with their respective stations in society and their education, age and nationalities, but I consider it free from the least taint of vulgarity and impurity.' 
               "Mrs. Flintweasel had her eyes riveted upon his, and now her sallow cheeks became a shade sallower, which hue spread itself over her thin, bony nose and sharp-pointed chin. 
               "'Though I do not feel inclined to contradict you,' she said, 'I still can not help to doubt the existence of such debased and vulgar characters as this Mr. Armhold was pleased to introduce in his book. But even were I, for argument sake, to admit that there might be a possibility of the existence of such debased natures, I could never for a moment consider the language he has made them utter any thing but most shockingly outrageous-indecent and unfit for a lady's ear, and only a little more pardonable than your desire to excuse it.' 
               "'It is unjust, Mrs. Flintweasel,' he replied calmly, as if he had not heard the last part of her remark, 'to judge another person's extent of knowledge of the human family in its manifold divisions by our own limited experience, and call that impossible with which we are simply unacquainted. Remember, dear Madame, that it is impossible for you, who have been, the best part of your life, residing in the country, to know the misery, wretchedness and wickedness that large cities abound in. And in portraying life in its various phases, Mr. Armhold has been particularly fortunate.' 
               "'Then you think it right to draw such unchaste pictures,' she persisted, 'and show them to the innocent children who might at any time get hold of such a book and become corrupted therefrom.' 
               "'Mrs. Flintweasel,' he replied, very impressively, 'the world in general, and you, as I can see, among the number, labor under the wrong impression, that ignorance is a safeguard to youth, but I, and thousands of others, are of the ripest conviction that nothing is more damaging to our welfare as individuals, families, societies and nations, than believing in and in enforcing this heresy. Knowledge alone-believe me, Madame-can lead to consummate happiness. There is nothing on earth, nor is there any thing done on earth with which a child might not be made acquainted. Good or bad-if there is such a thing as a bad action-we sin in suppressing the truth. Nothing happens but what every human being is entitled to know, for in every wind that shakes the leaflet on some forest tree our welfare is more or less concerned. And yet our children grow up in utter-in the completest-ignorance of nature's laws in reference to themselves and all the world beside. How many of us, Madame, have fallen-have taken the wrong step-have shed the first bitter tears-from the effects of a want of knowledge! And how many of us would never have fallen-would never have taken the wrong step-would never have had to shed bitter tears had we been suffered-from our earliest infancy on-to see the world as it is-had we been suffered to see not only one side but all sides-had we been suffered to commence our earliest training and education by the full light of others' experience? Had we been permitted to see the light in youth, we would not have to learn so much when we are too old to be much benefited by it.' 
               "Here Mr. Aaron had stopped a moment to take breath, Adelaide, but before he had had time to continue, Mrs. Flintweasel remarked: 'This is all very nice, and might do for a lecture, Mr. Aaron, but I don't know what all this has to do with Mr. Armhold's book and the outrageous language found in it." 
               "'Much, much,' he replied, not in the least disconcerted. 'Mr. Armhold simply wrote a history of experience-wrote a history of a range of characters true to the very life. To become acquainted with the doings of the low will, by no means, as some would argue, lead us to the same ends. He shows this in his writings, and there is not a fallen character in his whole novel, but what fell through ignorance and a want of proper training in childhood. More than that, Madame; I believe I may safely say that he has drawn their downward path so correctly and intelligibly that whoever studies the drawing-be it girl or boy, woman or man-will, notwithstanding the objection they may raise to the introduction of such characters in a novel, gain that much by the perusal that they will at least, though they may not thank the author, never sink in the like pitfalls." 
               "'There is a way, Mr. Aaron,' Mrs. Flintweasel rejoined, not yet ready to give up the struggle, 'for an author of fiction to draw the likenesses of fallen beings-if the drawing of such horrid likenesses should be necessary for our welfare, of which you, however, have signally failed to convince me-without resorting to such language and situations as he has stooped to coin. An author should never forget that at least part of his readers might have some sense of shame, and must feel shocked at indelicate expressions, and-as you style them-life-like representations of lust and obscenity. He should remember that such things must offend true modesty, and is not only improper, but even dangerous knowledge to youth.' 
               "'Again here, Madame,' Mr. Aaron, boldly yet with no show of disrespect, replied, as on every other question brought up in this discussion, my conviction stands opposed to your opinion. Presuming that every human being has some sense of shame-though as to what we should be ashamed of is not always interpreted alike by all and therefore persons of equal moral worth, may, according to their definition of what is right and wrong, uphold a deed as proper, which others, from their standing point, would denounce-and presuming from what I can glean from the work itself that Mr. Armhold entertained a similar opinion, it is not in reason to suppose that he desired to outrage the delicacy of his readers by want only introducing what some might call objectionable characters and a low and obscene phraseology. The difference is simply this, Madame, that what you call objectionable he thought proper, and what you call low and obscene he considered pure and chaste.' 
               "At this, Adelaide, Mrs. Flintweasel's patience gave way, and, as for a moment something like a flush passed over her cheeks, she broke forth in the following: 'He must have been plunged in the lowest stage of degradation-must have lost all self-respect to be so greatly bemuddled as to consider such language chaste.' 
               "'Far from it, Madame,' calmly answered Mr. Aaron, after a pause. 'Once more I am compelled, in justice to Mr. Armhold, to espouse his cause. You will, I hope, pardon me in reminding you of a fact that you will most readily admit, namely, that language is simply the intelligent-becoming embodiment of thought, and therefore to be considered pure or impure, chaste or unchaste in as far as it is intended to convey pure or impure, chaste or unchaste thoughts. Now there evidently appears a vast difference between your conceptions and his. He, as far as I understand his philosophy, believes that nothing done by a human being is unchaste-believes that the Universal Mind sees, lives, breathes and acts through and in all-believes the whole universe responsible for the most trivial acts of a human being, and the unlimited, universal Intelligence penetrating, actuating, moving, stirring all-believes that a violation of the laws of society does not yet prove a violation of the laws of nature-and viewing as he does life from that stand-point, how can he be thought guilty of having written unchastely? But even, Madame,' he continued-but am I wearying you, Adelaide?" 
               "O, do proceed, Mrs. Vane," Adelaide replied, nestling still closer to Marah. "You don't know with what undivided attention I have been listening to you. Pray, proceed; O, let me not beg in vain. I never was so interested in any thing in my life." 
               "Consider then, Adelaide, how the witnessing of this discussion must have impressed my mind, if my insipid recital is sufficiently interesting to enlist your attention. Yes, Mr. Aaron-not hurriedly, but calm and slow as if reflecting at the same time he was speaking, of what he was speaking, continued-'But now, Madame, were I even disposed to agree with you in viewing, what is right or wrong from a different stand-point than the author of 'The Desert of the Heart,' seems to have done, and were I even to go still further, and with you pronounce the characters of his novel low and licentious, and their language shockingly vulgar and immodest, I would still be as far as erst from agreeing with you in pronouncing this work unfit to be read, calculated to raise a blush of shame upon a true lady's face, and particularly dangerous to the morals of youth and inexperience.' 
               "Here, Adelaide, her eyes wandered over to where I sat attentively watching the progress of this to me very interesting controversial duel, and, her thin bluish lips opening and sufficiently widening out to expose her teeth, said, spleenishly smiling-'Mr. Aaron has at least admitted that I was correct in pronouncing this novel-'and she took the volume and disdainfully shoved it further away from her-'outrageously vulgar and, mark me, low and licentious, and therefore, in reward for his concession to my judgment, I will permit him to amuse me-for why should he take so ridiculous and damaging a position if it were not for that purpose?-in listening to what his fertile imagination can invent to sustain his assertion that such obscene literature can be read without injury-even with some benefit-by youth and innocence, and that no lady of delicacy need blush and feel shocked by making herself familiar with those very-' and here her lips widened still more-painfully more-'very interesting pages.' Then smilingly turning her face away from mine to Mr. Aaron's, she added: 'Begin, Mr. Aaron, I am really anxious-really I am-to hear what your imagination can invent.' 
               "'First and foremost, Mrs. Flintweasel,' he said, calmly, 'permit me to correct you and disabuse your mind by saying that I have been unfortunate to be understood to have indorsed your judgment as regards this novel; and now it will give me the pleasure-doubly a pleasure since it will amuse you-to assign some few reasons for saying that such a work can only be read-however outrageously obscene you may deem it-with undeniable profit by the young, innocent and inexperienced. It is an undeniable fact, Madame-deny we, who believe that ignorance is a safeguard and knowledge of what is is dangerous, as much as we will-that our courtezans, our women of easy virtue, our lodgers in brothels and in the vilest dens of vice, those who know not a blush of shame and indulge in the wildest excesses of shame and licentiousness-are not those who have read the works of George Sands, Eugene Sue, Monk Lewis or of Edgar Armhold-are not those who have been called by our neighbor slangy, fast and incorrigible-are not those who have loosened the cords of propriety and set defiance to its arbitrary laws,-are not those who have been raised in cities and in neighborhoods where wickedness abounds and meets their eye at every turn-no, Madame, they are your sheep and lambs, your hot-house plants, your sweet, little innocents who follow their mothers to church on Sundays, read innocent, chaste, unobjectionable ledger stories-they are those who were born, raised and educated in the rural district, in some quiet out-of-the way country-village-in some pious household where the 'Desert of the Heart' would never be admitted and the 'Literary Eclectic' would be hid away lest the white saints should become great black imps-it is where the sanctimonious preacher is the God and a Mrs. Flintweasel his administering angel-where-' 
               "'Sir- 
               "'Madame-' he continued, little heeding her exclamation, 'I mean no offence; as I am a gentleman, I mean no offence. Nor is it my intention to wound your feelings or speak sacrilegiously of any thing holy and deserving of our reverence. I know-I feel-for how can it be otherwise-that my words have shocked you. But, Madame, since we have gone so far already in this discussion, I would scarcely do justice to myself were I to stop right short here, leaving upon your mind a wrong impression of my morals and religion. Remember, Madame, that society is divided into two classes; the first class, comprising the majority of mankind, believes that the violation of the laws of man is productive of unhappiness to the world; the other class, however in the minority, thinks any legislation, usage, custom, which is in conflict with the laws and demands of nature, arbitrary, unjust, and pregnant with woe and misery. To this latter class I belong. To this latter class, Madame, also belonged the Author of this book. He wrote with the fullest freedom upon every topic, but not vulgarly. Mrs. Flintweasel, when he spoke of woman's nature and of woman's doings, I pray you, do not for a moment believe, that he knew not he was transgressing against the rules of supposed propriety for which the world would censure him. He knew all this and still he wrote it. What you object to as improper and licentious has only become so by the stigma society put upon it; it is man in his presumption that made this and that a crime-it is not nature, or God as you prefer to call it, that agrees with you in your censures.' 
                
               "'You are getting blasphemous now,' interrupted Mrs. Flintweasel, becoming restless on her seat. 'But a person who does not believe in a God is competent to do any thing,' she added with some bitterness. 
               "'Competent to do any thing, Madame,' he repeated, with some dignity, that almost made me love the man, 'that my judgment pronounces right. I have but few prejudices, and do not always see a wrong in what society sees and calls a wrong. Times and opinions change, and that what you may stamp as a disgrace to-day may to-morrow be pronounced a virtue!' 
               "'I presume,' Mrs. Flintweasel said, 'you are almost ready to defend the heroine of 'The Desert of the Heart' and, notwithstanding her undisguised lewdness, would consider her chaste and virtuous. Are you not ready to do all this, Mr. Aaron?' 
               "'I am ready to do this and more than this,' Mr. Aaron said, boldly meeting the question. 'Who tells you that your definition of chastity is correct and mine is wrong? Who tells you, Madame, that a person is unchaste and wanting in virtue, because she has committed a deed which society has stamped as such? Who tells you, Madame, that society is always right? You mentioned the heroine of Armhold's novel as a licentious character. Can that be licentious in her what would be admitted as proper in others? Can you really believe that the laws of man are stronger than the laws of nature? Can you really believe it a crime to break the former when they directly conflict with the latter? That heroine, by having followed her impulse and inclination, fell not; but society declared her fallen, pointed the finger of shame at her; closed the doors against her; treated her as an outcast-as a Pariah; stole from her her reputation and drove her mercilessly into the lowest walks of dire misery. You see her there-a sunken, miserable wretch,-you close your eyes in holy horror, you turn away from her lest she might contaminate you; you hear not her cry; you see not her woes; you look heavenward and with a feeling of superiority, though you reach not out your arm to help to reclaim her, remember her-the poor sinner-in your prayers. Mrs. Flintweasel, answer me, if you can, in what has that woman sinned? What has she been guilty of that should have made her less pleasing to the sight of God than if she had not defied the laws-the arbitrary laws of man? Tell me, Madame, if you can, if you had not pronounced the verdict of excommunication against her, whether the deed itself would have made her wretched? You can not answer it, Madame. You know she never sinned against Nature-she rather followed the voice of Nature-the voice of God-and which to suppress you will find no law of man near strong enough to do. The sin, the crime is not hers but yours-society's. Not by what she has done, not by gratifying a desire given by God to be gratified, would she or any other human being have become wretched, but by what you have done, by your heavy visitations upon her for what you were pleased to call a wrong had she to suffer, and still you thought yourself justified to reduce her to that bitter state of misery.' 
               "'I presume,' put in Mrs. Flintweasel, growing still bitterer, 'you are an advocate of a life of unchastity?' 
               "'No, Madame, I trust my words will not be construed in that light. Though I do mean to say that whatever Nature declares chaste, all the laws of society can not make unchaste. And all your persecutions, punishments, excommunications will not make it so, and only tend, in times to come, to become the cause of the suspension of all arbitrary laws. We shall see the day, Madame, when woman will emancipate woman, and will break down those laws, customs and rules, which have made of her a slave, have taken from her her liberty-have made her all this in the name of civilization, though they are simply the most disgraceful relics of the barbarous ages, and instead of elevating her have been instrumental only to debase her nature.' 
               "'You really do advocate strange, wondrously strange doctrines, Mr. Aaron,' Mrs. Flintweasel replied. 'Tell me, if we had no laws and no punishments for those who transgress them, how could we foster virtue and chastity in our midst? You certainly do not wish to reduce society into a chaotic condition.' 
               "'No, Madame, it is my hope,' he said, in return, 'to see it emancipated. The animal kingdom obeys no laws, only follows instinct, and yet is chaste-chaste in the strictest sense of the word-far chaster than the human family with all its laws and knowledge of proprieties.' 
               "Here Mrs. Flintweasel grew livid; her eyes sparkled, and I can still see before me her thin, bluish lips, as they sharpened around the curves. 
               "'It is a happy thing, Mr. Aaron,' she said, 'that these doctrines are not shared by many. Wicked as the world is now, it is nevertheless a paradise to what such as you would reduce it. It is certainly not an exceedingly flattering opinion you have of the human family to elevate the animal kingdom above it; but what better can be expected of a gentleman who avows that the life of a brute is chaster than that of a human being? Certainly-' and here, Adelaide, you ought to have seen the sinister smile that passed over Mrs. Flintweasel's face-'certainly if all were like the heroine of "The Desert of the Heart," we could with some justice say the world is bad indeed, but, thank God, such wretches are rare, and rarer still those who have the boldness to judge the rest of her sex by her.' 
               "'Were I to judge the rest by her, Madame,' Mr. Aaron replied with some warmth, 'I should have arrived at a conclusion more flattering to ourselves. But I have not, Mrs. Flintweasel. Armhold's heroine has only offended against your laws, but not against Nature, and therefore she is chaste, notwithstanding the verdict felled against her. No, indeed, Madame, not she, but her sisters-her lovely, pale-faced, church going sisters, who hold to every little rule and who would, though they can not, suppress the feelings, inclinations and desires which are inseparable from them, that fly-yes, sinfully fly in the face of Nature-who are the guilty sinners that bring about that unchastity, that corruption the existence of which we so greatly deplore. It is only a pity that we do not wish to see ourselves as we are, lest we should find our face not half so fair as we in our conceit have painted it. Were we, Madame, to look reflectingly at our short existence and think over our follies, deceptions and unprofitable labors, we should really be amused, were there no cause for sadness, at the singular picture brought before our view. Would we not laugh at our weak efforts to suppress in us-that which can not be suppressed? Tell me, Madame, do you really believe to possess the right-you, a human being-to punish another human being for what you may deem-or others may deem, an offense against yourself, against society was pleased to make? Do you really think you have a right to inflict punishment for anything on any body? Madame, Madame, what right had the world to pick out a human being-a being like themselves (for is Armhold's heroine not like one of us?)-and simply because she lived and did what she thought was right, or at least could not resist, and treat her as she was treated? Had she wronged anybody? Had she hurt anybody? No, She had simply defied or ignored laws made by man. And do you, Madame, really think that simply because you have made laws, against which her nature grew rebellious, it was right in you to punish her? From whence have you the right to make laws for me? Who-what God-gives you the right to prescribe to me my line of conduct? But by what law of Nature, Madame, must I yield my judgment and my inclinations to yours? And even if I sinned against myself by doing what even I thought wrong, who gave you authority to hold me to account for it and inflict a punishment? Who has set one man over another and made him his judge? Who has a right to embitter my life because I chose to dispute your authority over my actions, who-' 
               "He had grown eloquent, O, how eloquent, Adelaide, and Mrs. Flintweasel, fearing his influence, would not let him proceed, but fairly burst out in a vulgar laugh, a thing I never yet had found her guilty of-you could have met with thousands who would have laid wagers that she couldn't laugh, but she actually did laugh to my great surprise-then said: 'Your ideas are really rich, Mr. Aaron-really rich. I thought you would amuse me, and you have succeeded-indeed you have-beyond my expectations. Your ideas are most original-very original. I am no longer astonished that you should consider Mr. Armhold's novel chaste, pure and instructive. I should myself have arrived at that conclusion, but, as you remarked on a previous occasion, we look upon life from different views. We should have a very novel government were such gentlemen as yourself, or the author, whose champion you have so successfully been to-night, the representative men of mankind. Isn't it a pity that such is not-at least not yet-the case? But we can't tell what the future may have in store for us. Why, man-!' and here she laughed right out, then raising her voice to a higher pitch-'Why, man, you advocate an anarchy on earth! Have no laws? Obey no laws? Do as we please? Laugh at and defy every established rule of conduct? Good God! what are you talking about? Are you in your right senses? Why, you talk like one demented. You are worse-if worse can be-than an infidel. You would reduce the world-to a state of total anarchy. No safeguard! No protection. Stop!' and here the shocked lady became more serious, as she added: 'Holding such doctrines, Mr. Aaron, you must consider it a grievous wrong to imprison a thief, or inflict capital punishment upon a murderer. These punishments must shock your sensitive nerves; don't they, Mr. Aaron?' 
               "He was ready, with an answer, Adelaide, and he uttered it with an impressive distinctness that gave the words a force that must have sunk their meaning deep into her heart as it had been sunk into mine. 
               "'These punishments do shock my nerves,' he said. 'I confess it. But there are no thieves on earth, Madame. Where all belongs to all we can not steal or rob. No human being can claim a thing his own, nor has he ought but what he is. With all your wisdom-with all your laws-you cannot controvert this truth, but nevertheless it is a truth that will in time prevail, and until then will flourish court, church and penitentiary. But, Madame, were I to admit that such a thing as a thief does exist, I still would say you have no right to punish him. What! what! you mean to tell me it is right for one man to take away the liberty-the freedom of another? The freedom that nature gave him? You mean to argue that you-you, a worm of dust-dare rob a man of his freedom, in the possession of which gift the smallest insect even exults? And worse than all: you dare to say that you have a right to take the life of man? To take from him nature's foremost gift, and therefore prized the most? To take from him what all the world with all its concentrated wisdom can not give back to him again? You mean to say it is right to shed human blood or even that of animals? You mean to say a God-a generous God-gave you that right to rob a man of life? Are these the doctrines taught in your churches? And still you feel shocked at Armhold's heroine and what she did, and have the hardihood to say "The Desert of the Heart" is demoralizing to youth, while you raise your children to believe in such doctrines? O, yes, Madame, the innocent darlings might become corrupted-the lovely lambs-the delicate creatures might blush to hear such outrageous words as Armhold made use of, but the sweet girl-angels may read of murder and such-like innocent sport, for in reading that their natures will only become infused with the spirit-the heavenly spirit of civilization.' 
               "'Allow me to tell you, Mr. Aaron,' Mrs. Flintweasel replied with a snappish ferocity, 'that your irony-irony, I presume, is part of your religion'-and a sickening smile passed over her sallow face-'has neither made your arguments more forcible nor mine less convincing. It was a bold undertaking to defend the author of so shocking a novel. You have failed-as was most natural that you should fail-to remove the stigma from his name. And now, conscious of having sustained defeat, you recklessly attack society-and with a profanity compatible with the bold principles you avow-rail at laws which are at this moment your only safe-guard against the unregenerated adventurers whose lawless cause you have espoused. I can not answer you your chimerical-well, what shall I call it?-well, let me call it by its right name: your nonsense. A gentleman who argues as you have done, can not feel offended at not commanding that respect for a subject which is so ludicrously preposterous that I must only be surprised that it could have originated in a mind never until this present moment suspected of softening. I will therefore pass this over silently, and only touch upon one single item which refers to our children being permitted to read of murder and the like. I say it is wrong to let children read any thing outside of their school-books and their catechisms, until they are sufficiently advanced in years, when such stories as can be found in the New York Ledger may with safety be read by them. Such stories can not harm, for there is not an objectionable word permitted to appear in them. A mother need not apprehend any danger that they can corrupt the morals of youth. Now my children love to read. And I gratify their desire as far as it is deemed practicable. But to let them read such a book as "The Desert of the Heart"-why, I should never be able to forgive myself for so wanton a neglect of my duty!' 
               "'I suppose not,' Mr. Aaron proceeded. 'It would be a wanton neglect of duty. Our daughters must only read Ledger stories in order to give them a lofty conception of themselves and their duties. Men and women are drawn in them to the very life, and it is in the range of possibility that their examples might be emulated. It will give to our land a splendid race of men and women, and, it must be confessed we could see, if we only had the desire to do so, the effects of it now. Our women-why, our women have all their ideals and know what to live for. Who can doubt it for a moment after being informed from what literature they draw their mental food? We can hear it in their conversation, see it in their round, full and elastic forms, and judge it from their unquestionable actions. Yes, they must read these stories for they give them such very lofty conceptions of womanhood that it were a pity-a pity? why a sin, to deprive them of such lessons. And then the language, Mrs. Flintweasel, so choice and unexceptionable-not a word but what a preacher might use in his sermons. These are the novels designed to give the first life lessons to our daughters; how valuable the information comes to them in afterlife-almost as good as experience! There is no wonder that they are so fit to become mothers of men. And our school-children-our little cherubim-our lovely rosebuds-they dare not even hear a wrong word. They must have inculcated in their minds already in their first lessons, what is right, and therefore they learn to read, in the carefully-compiled spelling-book such beautiful sentences, as-"The wolf eats the lamb," "the man shoots the squirrel," "Marie stole a cent," "the butcher kills the cow," "John strikes the dog," "Polly kicks the cat," and so on. All this is taught to children of six years. What beautiful lessons with which to consecrate the youthful mind! Would it not be an outrageous sin, after such lessons-such peace-inspiring lessons have been inculcated-after we have taken similar caution with giving them the rest of their education-to corrupt their morals by permitting them to read Armhold's novel? Certainly it would be a great outrage even to attempt to say so. Children may read of theft, murder and death, but our daughters-God preserve them!-must never read 'The Desert of the Heart.' 
               "The irony of these remarks, Adelaide, was little calculated to bring Mrs. Flintweasel into a better humor. Though now and then a smile had flitted over her cheeks, it was far from being a sign of approbation. He had certainly wounded her feelings, and the whole expression of her face showed that she was irritated. For a moment, after he had got through with his remarks, she watched the play of his features, then, while she moved restlessly on her seat, in a voice perhaps shriller than she intended it to be, replied to him. 
               "'Mr. Aaron,' she said, 'I don't think it worth while to argue with you any further. I should have stopped sooner had I not been inclined to give you an opportunity to clear yourself of the bad impression your readiness to vindicate Mr. Armhold's claims as a chaste writer has left upon my mind. You have, however, made matters worse, and I owe it to myself, Mr. Aaron, to notify you, that a gentleman who advocates such chimerical, wild, sinful, dangerous and unholy doctrines, can never raise himself sufficiently in my esteem to be entitled to consider himself any thing more than a passing stranger to me and mine. I presume it will not be necessary to inform you that my daughter has received a good christian education, and will thank you for not recognizing her in the future.' 
               "'Madame,' Mr. Aaron said, with a dignity only a gentleman can assume, 'I regret the determination you have arrived at. Much that I shall lose in being deprived of your esteemed daughter's acquaintance, I feel that I should have lost far more in my own esteem, and therefore would have been less worthy of her friendship, had I denied to you, after I have been challenged, my principles and unworthily shrunk from expressing my deeplyrooted conviction.' 
               "Adelaide," Marah continued, "Mrs. Flintweasel appeared not to have paid the least attention to what Mr. Aaron had said. She had turned her face to where I sat, and began to address me about some little scandal, ignoring his presence altogether. After which he simply rose, bowed, and joined my father and some other gentlemen that were in the adjoining apartment. I have given you now, Adelaide, a meagre and incorrect synopsis of the conversation that had turned me in favor of reading novels. Not that I believe that all authors do justice to themselves or to the characters they draw, yet something might be learned from every book, and will, be its merits ever so little, more than recompense us for our perusal. But-hear!" 
               The bell rang. Adelaide ran to the window and looked out. A boy was at the door. She left the room to see what he wanted. A moment later she returned with a letter in her hand. She had read it coming upstairs, and now said: 
               "Judging by what mother writes here, it is not likely that she will be home for a day or two." 
               "Why? What is the matter? I hope the lady is not very ill?" Marah said. 
               "But she is, Mrs. Vane," Adelaide replied, handing the note to her. "You better read what mother writes." 
               Marah opened the note and read: 
               
                   
                      
                         
                           
                              "DEAR ADELAIDE,-
                            
                           "So you will not be uneasy if I should not be home this evening, I send this boy to you with these few lines. Poor Emma is sick-very sick-far sicker than I expected to find her. And not a woman about the house to reach her a cup of coffee if there were even one here to prepare it for her. Marie has replied to her mother's telegram that she can not come. What can I do now but stay with poor, sick Emma-at least for a day or two-until we have provided her with a nurse, for her husband is really unable to attend to her wants? So don't expect me home for some days. Be good and excuse me to Mrs. Vane to whom, I trust, you will show the greatest attention. 
                           Good bye, dear daughter, and think of your mother, 
                           
                              CARRIE HARRINGTON."
                            
                         
                      
                  
                
               "You have a good mother, Adelaide," Marah said, returning the note to her. "You should try never to aggravate her, for times might come when we would give words had we nothing to upraid ourselves with. I know while we are at home and surrounded by our friends we little heed the many occasions of offence we offer. But when we are parted from them, as I am for instance from my father and mother, we will think-O, so often!-of wrongs we have been guilty of-of words hastily spoken-of undutiful acts, and then we feel the regret so keenly, that we would give worlds, if we possessed them-had we only been better. Therefore, Adelaide, be good to your good mother.-She seems to have no one but yourself-and free yourself, as much as it is in your power to do, from your own accusations against yourself, as you will be happier in proportion to your ability to approve of your conduct." 
               "I'm not very good, Mrs. Vane," Adelaide replied, in her childlike simplicity, "and I often aggravated mother when I should not have done it. But, I'm sure, you have nothing to upbraid yourself about. You have never offended your parents?" 
               Marah did not reply, but Adelaide thought she grew a shade paler and that her eyes suffused with tears. 
               "Will you lend me this book to read, Mrs. Vane?" 
               "If your mother will permit you to read it I will give it to you. But I have not read it yet myself. You can see that the leaves are even still uncut." 
               Adelaide's fair face turned crimson. She feared she had been misunderstood. 
               "O, I would not have the book before you had read it, Mrs. Vane," she said apologetically. "Perhaps Mr. Vane would wish to read it too; if so, I can wait till he gets through with it." 
               "Mr. Vane does not read novels," Marah replied. "He says they are only written for the benefit of women and children. Beside he has so little time to read now, that there is no likelihood of his having any inclinations for this one." 
             
             
               CHAPTER XXII. 
               REUBEN ARMHOLD. 
               AN hour after her arrival at the hotel Carrie Harrington still sat, absorbed in deep reflection, in the same position as when first she had seated herself, a few minutes after the waiter's withdrawal from her room, upon some low chair nearest the door. The neat little bonnet was still on her head, the shawl was still thrown around her handsome shoulders, and her veil was still held between her fingers, her hand resting on her lap. Despite the rouge and paint-despite Madame Durande's skill in beautifying the complexion and in concealing wrinkles-this time her art seemed to have failed her, for the face she had been, for nearly an hour, at pains, to make appear more youthful, had certainly gained nothing by her art. 
                
               Carrie Harrington had aged considerably by the efforts of the perfumer, and though some of the faint wrinkles that years had left upon her brow and around her mouth had disappeared, her face had gained nothing in youthfulness, while it really lost its naturally sweet expression, and that peculiar mellowness that had rendered her charming form-so ripe, voluptuous and matronly-ever attractive in all eyes. Nor did that gaudy dress become her as well as the plain black gown in which we have first made her acquaintance. But she was to personate a young creature-Marah Koltinzky-and she had to take recourse to art, as much as possible, to help her to conceal her five and forty years for several days at least-from the proprietors of the St. Nicholas, and from such of their subordinates with whom she might, in the interim, have to come in contact. 
               But as she sat there, vaguely peering at the blank wall opposite her, she thought not whether Mrs. Durande had been successful in making her appear more youthful or not. Other things-far weightier things-engaged her mind and kept her in the deepest study. Lighthearted, thoughtless as if she had not a care to disturb her peace, as she had appeared at the breakfast table, her heart had been unusually oppressed not so much since her interview with Mr. Clifford Vane and the promises she had made him as since the by-her unlooked for appearance of the ragged stranger before her house-door. It was that which annoyed her. Had he come back but one week earlier, much as she would have disliked the occurrence, she could have borne the disappointment with some show of equanimity and forbearance. But now, and under the present circumstances, it was a positive calamity to her. She would sooner-just then she believed she would sooner have followed the remains of her so dearly-loved Adelaide to her last resting-place, than to have welcomed her father back to New York-a place he had sworn never more to visit. But he had come back; yes, not only that, but he had found out where she lived and had exacted from her a promise that she would meet him that morning yet. She was almost beside herself as she mentally viewed the very, very unpleasant position in which she was placed. She scarcely knew what to do. Should she keep her promise or- 
               Her heart ached her. There was no alternative left her. This interview must be had. He must leave the city, and that as quickly as possible. Cost it what it will-be the sacrifice ever so great-the coast must be clear and he must leave-leave, she trusted and prayed, never more to return. Clifford Vane must never know but what she is a widow. Good God! if he should discover that she was not a widow, that her husband still lived! 
               She shuddered at the thought. He must never know. Sooner than to lose him now she would commit any crime. She loved that man-loved him in the fullness of her womanly, ripe and passionate nature. It was no romantic love this; it was the love of a woman of five-and-forty-of a woman in the prime of her life, health, instinct, unsatisfied desire, all uniting in her strong nature to make her conscious of the enjoyment life had still in store for her. 
               And why should she deprive herself of that enjoyment? 
               Her eyes began to glisten and an ugly frown came upon her brow, like a cross seated over the ridge of her nose. Her features wore a severe expression and the corners of her mouth became unpleasantly sharper. She looked as if she were meditating upon some mischief. There was something gloomy and sullen-a repulsive determinateness-about her face that made her look fiendish. 
               A moment later she started into herself and after wildly, as if she had been asleep, peering about the room, she breathed a sigh, whispered a word to herself, then once more fell into a deep reverie. This time, however, her study was but of short duration. She shook herself free from its influence almost instantly. Another sigh, and she rose from her seat. Throwing the veil over her face, she left the room even without as much as looking into the mirror. She took the key into her pocket, and passing along the hall, finally reached a pair of stairs that led her to the front-door. 
               Arrived in the street she hailed a bus. Having told the driver where to stop, she paid the fare, then took a seat upon one of the crowded benches. It must have been close to an hour before she got out, and continued her journey afoot for nearly ten blocks. When she halted, it was in a street far from prepossessing, but nevertheless seeming to be a neighborhood more of poverty than wickedness. 
               She looked in both directions, both up and down the pavement, as if to espy something or somebody, but her face betrayed a feeling of disappointment. She was just in the act of moving away when a voice behind her sent the blood to her face and made her turn her eyes in that direction. It was the stranger-that dirty, uncombed, ragged, pock-marked stranger-it was Adelaide's father-who faced her now. 
               "Come in here," he said, scarcely looking at her, as he led her through a narrow passage back to the rear of the house, then up a narrow flight of stairs, until he came before a small door, which he opened and then entered followed by Carrie Harrington. 
               The room was low and dark, containing simply a deal chair and table, and a narrow bed-stead upon which lay an old straw mattress torn and considerably soiled. Carrie took a hasty survey of the surrounding object, and wretched as the abode would have appeared to her at any other time, she could not help but confess to herself but that she had expected to find his place of sojourn more in correspondence with his own appearance of utter wretchedness. 
                
               He sat down upon the mattress at the same time pointing his fore-finger toward the deal chair for Carrie to occupy. 
               "I see you have been punctual to your appointment," he commenced, after she had sat down, "and came almost to the minute. I am glad of it, for it saves me the trouble of making another call on you. Now tell me what is it you have to propose to me? I see you are dressed in style," and he laughed that bitter laugh so common among despairing, reckless adventurers who had once seen better days-"yes, you are dressed in style, while I have not a change of linen, no, nor had for these many months past." 
               "On this account I came, Reuben," she said, assuming at once a familiar, friendly and conciliatory tone. "You seem to be in great distress, and I want to help you out of it as far as it is in my power to do so. You need linens, you need clothes, and you need money. I can not give you the former two but can supply you with the last, and with it you can purchase such articles as you deem most necessary for the present to have." 
               "I thought you wouldn't let me suffer, Carrie-I thought so." 
               He raised his head a little higher, and a ray of light that had slantingly pierced through the small window-pane, fell upon his face and lighted it up. Now, for the first time, we discover that notwithstanding the ravages time had made upon it-notwithstanding the pock-marks-notwithstanding its wildness-notwithstanding its many signs of dissipation-there was still something in that ugly face-something though you could not for the life of you tell what and where it is, that reminded you of beauties that must have graced it once, and of a frankness that never could be entirely lost in the wreck. 
               "Why should I let you suffer, Reuben?" she said, half feeling, for the moment, a sort of pity for the impoverished wretch, who, at one time had had the power to charm her, and by his reckless defiance of the worst that fate could have in store for a human being, had more than challenged her admiration. "No, you shall not suffer while I can help you. I have thought much over your distresses since last night, and I have come to the conclusion that nothing would be better for your health than a journey across the sea, to stay in England, Germany or France for some few months to recuperate your strength. I will furnish you with sufficient means-" 
               "No, Carrie, no," he said, sadly, without raising his head, "there is but one more journey left for me to make, and that is to the grave. I wouldn't mind it, Carrie; no, I would not mind it. I would just as leave die to-day as to-morrow, but I mustn't think of it. Think of all the damned deeds, the black crimes that rest upon our souls. I can't die yet-I can't, Carrie, and yet I must. O, if it were not for those dreams-those horrid dreams that come to me every night. And you want me to cross the ocean to recuperate my strength? You are making fun of me-ain't you? Look at those hands! See how they tremble! Wouldn't one take me to be five-and-seventy and I am only forty-eight? I've had the delirium tremens last night because I had some whisky; and I shall have it again-I feel it come on me even now-because I am without whisky. It is a horrible thing to have the delirium tremens," he muttered to himself, sadly shaking his bushy uncombed head-"a horrible thing to be fighting with devils-" then abruptly breaking off, added: "Is there no way of fleeing them? I thought my mother would chase them off, but she won't, she won't, she won't. She has forsaken me too." 
               Having said this his head inclined forward and nodded slowly as if he were thinking over past events-over incidents connected with his life-course-the recollection of which he could wish would never more intrude itself upon his memory. He was truly a sad picture to look upon. Not only had time been merciless in its dealings with a form and figure that in long years gone by had been the very type of manly grace and beauty, but in its ravages had not spared that fiery spirit, but had laid its cold fingers upon it and robbed it of that buoyancy and ambition that had quickened his pulse, nerved his arms, imboldened his steps and brightened his eyes. Carrie looked at him-at that human wreck-with a mingled feeling of pity and disgust. If he had only been in the same sulky mood and inclined to quarrel as he had been on the previous night she could have dealt with him with a severity and a despatch the exigency of the present circumstances might have emboldened her to adopt. But as he appeared to her now-the man who had once rescued her brother from the doom of a felon-the man she had robbed of peace and happiness just when he had been about to lift love's chalice to his lips-the man to whom she had sworn eternal love and faithfulness-the man who had given her all his wealth and was the father of her child-the old days would come back to her and, remorse giving signs of vitality in her heart, she felt powerless and loth to execute her plan. 
               "This is all nonsense, Reuben," she said, reprovingly, "to grieve and despond in this manner. I have never seen you thus before. You were always brave, defiant, and ever hopeful when fortune seemed at its lowest ebb. You must not give way now. Times will change and you will be better. That's all folly about dying. You have many years to live yet, and I see no reason why you should not even out-live me. All that is required is some little care and a better diet than you seem to have enjoyed lately, in order to be yourself again. This delirium tremens comes from drinking, Reuben. You must abstain from imbibing strong liquors if you do not wish to be troubled with ugly dreams. I can readily believe that fighting devils during hours that should recuperate our strength is a horrid occupation. Therefore abstain from drinking and your slumbers will be less broken." 
               "Can't do it, Carrie-can't do it," he said, drearily, once more shaking his head, then raising his sad eyes so they met her own. "I have tried it once and it has almost killed me. It won't do, Carrie, it won't do. I must keep on drinking. When I'm sober, I think of so many things-so many things that I should like to forget but can't-and it is that what pulls me down so. I'd much sooner have those horrid dreams or the delirium tremens than those terrible thoughts when I'm not in drink. But what use to talk of this or that? I'm done for. The grave yawns for me, Carrie, I can see it. I have come home to die, Carrie. I know I am an abject, miserable creature, but you will not let me die among strangers, I know you won't. I shan't trouble you long; it'll soon be all over with me. O, Carrie!" and Reuben Armhold's eyes filled with tears, his hollow voice broke and grew tremulous, "do take me home and let me die there. I had such a good mother, she is in heaven and will pray for you for this last kind act shown to me. Won't you take me home?" 
               There was so much pathos and child-like simplicity in his voice that Carrie Harrington was moved to tears. She soon rallied, however, and said: 
               "You ask for something, Reuben, I can not grant you. You know under what conditions and at what terms we have agreed to live apart. I am known in this city as a widow and pass under the name of Harrington. You can see now at a glance the impossibility of my admitting you again into my house. I know you can not feel disposed to effect my ruin which would also involve the ruin of our daughter, who is now almost grown to womanhood. I have taken great care of her, as I have promised you that I should. I have given, and am still giving her, a good education, have taught her only what is right, good and virtuous, and she knows no better than her father is dead and that she is a Harrington. Would you ruin her future prospects-the sweet child who is nightly blessing your memory? Would you have the world-the wicked world-point the finger of shame at her? Would you have people say to our innocent offspring that she is the child of a thief, a robber, a forger-the child of a penitentiary bird? Would you? Would you, Reuben? I know you wouldn't. I feel confident that you have not been thinking of the terrible consequences that would follow your admission into my house. No, Reuben, you must drive this thought out of your mind. You must not think for a moment that I can accede to your proposition. I can not sacrifice our child's happiness-no, Reuben, were it to cost my life I should oppose it. Besides, I feel happy to think that you are far from being so near gone as you, owing to your dejection, fancy yourself to be. You are weak, I can see it. But a good diet, pure air, and a regular life will soon restore to you your former strength. Why, man, you mustn't give up the ship so readily. Rather give up drinking and see whether those devils won't disappear. And those horrid thoughts and ugly dreams are only the effects of weakness. Therefore I say you must have a better diet and lead a different life. A change of air is necessary, too. And where can all these be had better than by a trip across the Atlantic, and then by a short sojourn at some European watering place? Money shall be forthcoming, as much and more than you require. If it were to take the last cent I owned, I should not hesitate to give it to you, as long as it is for the purpose of recuperating your strength. But if I am willing to make so great a sacrifice, why should you for a moment wish to jeopardize your daughter's happiness? No, Reuben, you will take my advice, and by putting the ocean between us two, insure to yourself a long and happy life, to me security and peace, and to our daughter love and esteem." 
               He looked at her-in fact, had been looking at her all the time she had been speaking. There had been a dubious expression on his face for awhile. Now it changed and saddened with a sadness that was unpleasant to behold. You could see the nervous twitchings of his muscles. Once or twice he pressed his lips together as if to force down his throat something that tried to choke him. At last he shook all over as he sat upon the edge of that bedstead, and his eyes began to glisten. The fact of it was, tears had gathered in them and lent them a peculiar lustre. He made several efforts to speak, but somehow he failed to give utterance to a word. His tongue seemed to deny him her services. It had the effect of sending still more tears into those large black eyes and lastly, down his unwashed, unshaven cheeks they rolled. This must have done him some good, for he felt a sort of relief, and a moment later, he said very mournfully, and very despondingly: 
               "You surely won't let me die among strangers? I have been good to you once, Carrie." 
               "I know you have," she replied, hastily. "And it is for that reason, if I had no others to urge me to be kind to you, that I would serve you. But you must not persist in asking of me a thing I can not grant. Besides, Reuben, you are not dying. You must drive this notion out of your head; nothing good can come of it." 
               Again that slow, dubious shake of his head. 
               "I know it, Carrie, I know it;" he said at last in a low, hollow voice. "Nothing good can come of it, and nothing good will come of it. But I'm dying nevertheless; I'm dying. Won't you believe me when I'm saying it? Have I ever told you a lie? You know I never have. Look here!" He pulled off his coat, then turned up the ragged shirt-sleeve over his left arm. "Look here!" he repeated. "Look at this wasted arm-a child can almost span it. It was once round, hard and fleshy, but now, now it's a skeleton-wasted into nothing. So is my whole body, Carrie. I'm nothing but bone and skin, and my blood-have I got any more blood?-is cold and thin. Don't tell me that I'm not dying. Such pains as I have none but the dying have. It's nothing but whisky now that keeps me up. It stimulates me-it does. But it doesn't cure. It's in here where I am sick;" and he pointed a bony finger toward his breast. "'Tis here, right here where it's aching me. It will make an end of me. And I have no place to go to. And they say the sufferings are so great when one dies, and strangers have no feelings. O, don't cast me off now, Carrie; see, I'm a useless, worn-out wretch. I'm so helpless, and I have no one beside you now. It'll soon be over with me. I won't trouble you long. I have endured a great deal in my life, but for God's sake-for God's sake, do take me home with you. Put me in your garret, in your cellar if you will-anywhere, anywhere, so when I give the last gasp-when I can't speak any more-my eyes can look upon a familiar face. O, don't deny me this favor, Carrie, Carrie-O, don't deny it." 
               He had grown hoarse-so hoarse that he could not proceed any further. Tears had fallen thick and heavy down over his face, and once or twice the sobs had almost choked him. Now he drooped his head low over his bosom, and, his long, lank fingers nervously closing and opening and playing with the mattress, muttered something unintelligibly before him. 
               Carrie Harrington-powdered and rouged, and dressed in the heighth of fashion-for a moment forgot the object of this meeting, and only remembered that this forlorn being was her own husband and, as she herself could see, near his final end. The sight of his great misery awoke a tender feeling in her bosom, and had he arrived, and pleaded as he had done, before she had become acquainted with Clifford Vane, she would have been overcome and Reuben Armhold might have found an asylum in the home of his wife. But now-'twas impossible. He must leave the city. He was a spider that would stretch a thick and impenetrable web between her eyes and the fairest view that life had ever presented to her. If she wavered for a moment, it was only to reflect over and to mature the plot but not to give it up. She would not act hastily however. She would consider the matter a little more before she would arrive at a definite conclusion. One thing was certain: at her house he should never die. Whatever she would do for him, his promise to leave the city must be in the stipulation. This much was settled in her mind. 
               "Reuben," she said after a pause, "I will see what can be done for you. You shall not find me heartless. Do you lodge here-here in this room?" 
               He shook his head from side to side, to imply that he did not. 
               "Where do you lodge, then?" she continued to interrogate. 
               "Nowhere." 
               "Nowhere? What do you mean by 'nowhere? You surely must have staid somewhere last night. Where was it?" 
               He raised his ugly, pock-marked face, then said, his voice still hoarse: 
               "On the street." 
               "On the street," repeated Carrie, a cold chill passing through her frame. "Why, what have you done with the money I gave you last night?" 
               "Whisky." 
               'Twas all he said. His head drooped once more low over his bosom, and his long, thin, bony arms hung lazily down both his sides. 
               "And then you have not yet had any thing to eat this morning?" she said. 
               "No." 
               "You better order you something at once, Reuben. How do you expect ever to get well if you don't eat?" 
               "O, Carrie, Carrie," he said, and once more he raised his head and turned his mournful eyes to her, "it is not that what will make me well. It is sleep-rest at nights I need. But these ugly dreams-these horrid devils that torment me-they won't let me have it. And it'll be that way until I die. I know it will. And I am so afraid-O, Carrie, Carrie, I am so afraid of them. And there is nobody to pray for me-no, nobody will have pity on me. Don't say you will think about what can be done for me; nothing can be done for me any more. It's too late. Only have mercy on me. Don't let me be haunted by those frightful dreams. I am afraid-afraid. Put me in your garret. I know you have not the heart to refuse me that request?" 
               "Reuben, I have told you distinctly that I will do any thing for you that it is in my power to do, but in my house you can never lodge. This much I want you distinctly to understand. Sooner than to permit that I would kill myself. I hope that this point is settled. I will give you money in order to enable you to leave for foreign parts, for to foreign parts I insist that you should go. You shall have plenty of money and that before I shall leave this room, for I do not wish to see you in want." 
               Reuben Armhold remained silent for some time; at last he began to cry like a child. Ever and anon he would call upon his mother-upon the mother who had so tenderly loved him-to have pity on him. Neither his father's nor his brother's name ever escaped his lips. It was his mother-poor, blind Rebecca-who had always taken his part and whose favorite he had been-that was uppermost in his mind. There were tears in Carrie's eyes and grief in Carrie's heart. To look at Reuben now and to remember what he had been was more than enough to sadden her. She saw he was growing weaker and weaker, and knowing that he had not tasted any thing that morning, filled her mind with uneasiness. 
               "You must eat something," she pleaded, earnestly. "This won't do. Tell me, can any thing be had in this house? And what do you want?" 
               "I want nothing. I can't eat any thing. It would only stick in my throat and choke me. If I only had some whisky-good, strong whisky-I would feel better again." 
               "I shan't get you any whisky. It is that what made you what you are now." 
               "No, no," he fairly gasped. "I must have some whisky-right-right now-else I'll die. Get it for me, Carrie-do get it for me." 
               She was undecided. She hesitated for a moment. 
               He raised his bony hands pleadingly and repeated: "Get it for me." 
               "Where can I get some?" she inquired. 
               "Down-stairs." 
               Carrie Harrington, not in the least embarrassed, walked down-stairs to get the liquor, but when she returned she found that he had fainted and lay stretched upon the floor. 
               She did not call any one to her assistance. Putting the glass of liquor she had brought up with her upon the old deal table she knelt down before him and felt his pulse. "He lives," she whispered, and then applied some of that liquor to his nostrils and temples. It had the desired effect. Reuben opened his eyes, and for a moment stared wildly now at Carrie Harrington and now around the room. 
               "Where am I?" he said, trying to raise himself upon his elbow. Just then his eyes fell upon the glass of whisky standing upon the floor. Carrie had no time to reach it to him; he had snatched it up and had placed it to his parched lips almost before she was aware of it. He drained it empty in one single draught. 
               "I feel better now," he said, then raised himself to his feet. Carrie also got up and sat down upon a chair. 
               "See," she said, reprovingly, "what such a life you lead results in. Is it a wonder that your strength gives way and you faint for sheer physical exhaustion? Had you applied the money I gave you last night for something to eat you would not have been prostrated thus. But you didn't, and the punishment for the omission had to follow." 
               Reuben Armhold had once more seated himself on the bedstead, and had attentively listened to her without a single interruption. But the expression of his face had undergone a change, and the liquor he had imbibed had given him fresh life. There was an unnatural lustre in his black eyes as they restlessly rolled in their orbits. Something of the Reuben of five and twenty you saw in their wild and sometimes searching glances. This liquor really had worked wonders. It had reanimated him and, as if by magic, driven away that languor. Carrie saw it at a glance and, while watching the expression of his face, regretted that the glass she had brought him had not been filled with poison. 
               "Yes, punishment always follows omission of duty," he said, at last, a frown upon his brow. "It never stays out; it is sure to find us, and that when we least expect or are least prepared for it. We have a proof of it here-haven't we?" he added, a hollow laugh accompanying the words. "Twice twenty-four hours ago you would not have believed that Reuben Armhold had come back and found you out. Would you now?" 
               "It matters little what I would have believed," she said, resolutely. "You are here now and I must meet the calamity as best I can." 
               "'Calamity!' that's good," he chuckled. "I see your eye has a full sweep of the view this new situation presents. I presume you would sooner have expected the devil, and, I have no doubt, would rather have seen him than myself. But you see, here I am. And there is no reasoning away my presence, and, I shall take good care, no spiriting it away either." 
               "I have not come to meet you for this purpose," was Carrie's tart reply. "I have met you for the purpose of arriving at a definite understanding with you. Since you have not come home to die," she added, sarcastically, "what have you come for?" 
               Reuben looked at her with a withering look, and his face first turned red as a living coal, then pale as a sheet of linen. He seemed in no hurry to answer. Raising himself up to his full length, he slowly and with a firm step crossed the room and sat down right next to her. Looking her straight in the eye, he said, with a snail-like slowness: "You are right, Carrie, as you always are; I have not come home to die, though it is reasonable that you should wish it, and the prostration you have just seen me in might have encouraged such a hope. But these prostrations are rare and generally of short duration. Had I had whisky you should not have experienced the joy of imagining me dying. No, Carrie, I have come home to claim a shelter under your roof, and I mean to have it peaceably if I can, forcibly if I must. I have been an exile long enough from my own hearth. I don't intend to beg long for your consent either. You see how this whisky you were good enough to fetch me effects me. What have you to say, Carrie?" 
               "I have only to repeat," she said, after a short pause, "what I have before remarked. You can not find a domicile in my house. Ask any thing else in my power to grant you and be the request ever so unreasonable, I shall comply with it. You have heard before what I had to propose to you. It is for you to decide now your course of action. Will you accept of money and leave this country?" 
               "No." 
               "Consider well before you answer, Reuben," Carrie admonished, boldly meeting his emboldened glance. 
               "I have considered well, and my decision you have heard. Your home shall he mine. Do you understand me?" 
               "I do, Reuben Armhold. Now hear, so you may understand me. Your home shall not be in mine. I came here to befriend you; you reject all my proposals-now take the consequences. I defy you to do your worst. Do you think to frighten me into acquiescence? You can't do it, Reuben Armhold! you know you can't. The experience you have had with me should have taught you that. And do you think I have grown less resolute in those years of our separation? Don't think it, Reuben-don't think it. Therefore hold out no threats, for they would simply fall upon a callous and indifferent heart. You know what I am capable of doing-why drive me then to extremes? What can you possibly gain by being stubborn? Am I not Carrie Harrington? And being Carrie Harrington, and knowing her as you do, can it be anything less than sheer madness in your trying to force her into a measure you know that she can not consent to? Shall our-your agreement be broken and the old wrangle, with all its fury, be once more renewed? Say!" 
               Reuben Armhold did not answer for some minutes. He simply kept looking into Carrie's eyes which were fully bent upon his face. At last a bitter smile passed over his lips, and his long eye-brows contracted into an ugly frown. Drawing the chair upon which he sat still closer to hers and placing his chin upon his arm, he said, with a bitterness he took no pains to conceal: "You are a nice creature to dare me! Do you think to frighten me out of my wits with your effrontery? Do you really think that I care a snap of my finger for all your threats and determinations? Certainly I know what you are capable of doing, but, for all that, this vagabond by your side does not fear you. You are a fool, woman, to talk in this light-handed manner to me. There was a time it would have paid you-in fact, did pay you; but that time's gone. I am not the Reuben Armhold of fifteen years ago. Everything has changed since then; so have I. When a man once has fallen so low that he has nothing more to lose-neither love, affection, friendship, wealth or position in society-tell me, what effect your threats can have on a man like that? The worst you can do can't effect me. Had I never seen you, Carrie Harrington-you see I call you 'Harrington,' for my mother's name it would be sacrilege to assume-I would not be what I am now: one of the most abject creatures on the broad face of this globe. Had I never seen you-or had I cut your throat when you had had the audacity to charge me with Broadwell's crime-I never should have come to this. You look like a woman and ought to have a woman's heart. But you are void of every generous feeling; you are a monster. For you to be able to sit here as you do, rouged and powdered, and dressed in silk, and look in my oldened, careworn face, to take in my whole appearance as calmly as you can and without feeling a compunction for what you have wrought, shows the utter depravity of your nature. I always led a wild life, but not until I came in contact with you died out the nobler traits of my manhood. Through you and only through you (for not being able to resist your fascinations I became your slave) I found myself dragged into the lowest walks of life, and now I am-what am I. A vile wretch, a felon, drunkard and a vagabond I am despised by the whole world but most by me. And still you can sit here and boast to me-to the victim whose career in life you have made so sad a failure-of your capacity for crime. What would you do to me, tell me? What would you do to me? Would you hand me over to the civil authorities for--shall I tell it? No, for your heart must always tell you of that deed-! Would you really do it? I believe you would, Carrie Harrington, if you safely could, and the only security I have against your doing so is your fear of being dragged along in the mire yourself." 
               "I don't know why you should speak such idle nonsense," she broke in. "I have no inclinations to hand you over to the civil authorities, but if such were my intention, you could never endanger, my security for a moment. Remember I am this day Widow Carrie Harrington not Mrs. Armhold, and do you believe you could convince the court that I am your wife and partner of the many crimes with which you stand charged? You must see the absurdity of this yourself. But all this is not here nor there. Let us talk to some purpose now. Once more I'll ask you: Will you accept of my proposition?" 
               "What is your proposition?" 
               "I propose to give you sufficient money for a journey to Europe provided you pledge yourself never more to return." 
               "And this is the only proposition you have to make?" 
               "Any other you may wish to advance I shall cheerfully consider," Carrie replied, "so it includes not my consent for your return to my house, or a sojourn in this city." 
               "And if I should be willing to give way in these two points, will you pledge yourself to accept the proposition I shall make you?" 
               "If not out of reason, Reuben," she said, "you shall find that I am capable of making any sacrifice in order to satisfy you. What is it you want?" 
               He raised his head, looked into her eyes, then, placing his lips to her ears, whispered a few words hastily into them. 
               She did not answer for some time. The proposition, whatever it was, had certainly come unexpected. It put her to thinking. She rose from her seat and began to walk up and down the room. Reuben was about to rise too but failed in the attempt. His strength was once more exhausted and his head hung again in sad dejection low over his bosom. The whisky had but buoyed him up artificially. Carrie, by chance, turned her eyes upon him and saw, at a glance, that he was near having another fainting fit. 
               She stopped, and as she did so one of the saddest wails that she had ever heard rose from his breast. Approaching him he raised his head and showed a face distorted by pain. His eyes were rolling wildly in their sockets, and had a vacant, unsettled stare. A moment later he had griped her hand, and pointing to the opposite wall, the foam now coming to his lips, shrieked: "They are there again, the devils! They are coming here to burn me up. Don't! Don't! Don't! Go away! Go away! O mother! save--they have hold of me-O! O! O--!" and he began to shake from head to foot, while unearthly cries rose from his breast. 
               Carrie Harrington felt extremely uncomfortable, and knew not whether to leave him or not. Just then some one knocked at the door. It was the landlord. He required no explanation. It was not the first one having the delirium tremens that he had seen. Without a word or ceremony he raised Reuben Armhold from his seat, and little heeding his cries, was about to drag him to the door. 
               Carrie Harrington had watched him for a minute, then asked: "What are you going to do?" 
               "Put him out!" 
               "Put him out?" 
               "Yes, put him out. Don't want the whole police force after me on account o' this here chap. He ain't got any money anyhow." 
               "But I have," Carrie interrupted. "Lay him on this cot and give him your attention. I will richly pay you for your labor." 
               This was speaking with some effect. Reuben was laid upon the cot and the uncivil looking landlord became quite civil. 
               "I'll do all I can for him," he said, receiving a ten-dollar note from the lady. 
               "Take care of him," she said, "and when I come back in a day or two, I shall pay you whatever expenses you may have to incur. Do not let him leave your house under any consideration until you have seen me again. He might get such an attack on the street and what would then become of him? No, let him lodge here, and when he is conscious again, will you not fail to tell him that the lady had acceded to his proposition and will meet him in this house in a day or two to fulfill it?" 
               So saying she took one long look at the prostrated figure on the cot, then disappeared through the door. 
             
             
               CHAPTER XXIII. 
               THE HEART LAID BARE. 
               Marah not only loved but almost worshipped Mr. Clifford Vane. It is of little consequence now to discover what she had seen either in his person or character that had conquered her and drawn forth the great wealth of her pure heart; her desertion of home and of the best parents a child ever had to dote upon it; the sacrifices she had already made and would make for him again, testified to the strength of her affections for, and faith in, the man she had chosen from a score of the worthiest who would have thought themselves all too happy had they been blessed with winning her love. Adelaide was still sitting by her side, looking in that handsome dark face-looking into those large gray eyes-as she now spoke, with an animation that bordered almost on enthusiasm, on the theme to her the noblest-greatest of all the themes-of Clifford Vane. They had exhausted subject after subject, first this then that had been touched upon and so dismissed again, but no sooner had the name of Clifford Vane been mentioned than Marah became eloquent in his praises, and finding so ready and interested a listener as Adelaide, and being by no one disturbed, grew voluble and branched out into details connected with her courtship and her flight-details to which the youthful Adelaide most profoundly listened. Marah, her eyes still softly aglow with a fire the tender passions had kindled in them, had just delivered herself of a shower of praises in favor of her Clifford-her own, own Clifford-when Adelaide-youthful, imaginative Adelaide-inspired by the inspiration of her companion, raised her beautiful eyes heavenward, joyfully (as if her heart was too full with pleasure) clapped her tiny, wax-like hands together, and, while a rosy tinge spread itself over her face soft as softest velvet and white as driven snow, exclaimed in a voice clear as the sound of a silver bell, yet tremulous in its heavenly gleefulness: 
               "Good God! how sweet it must be to love as you do!" 
               "Sweet, Adelaide?" Marah replied, her own eyes following those of the lovely girl by her side. "Sweet, did you say? O, Adelaide! Adelaide! sweet conveys not a tithe of its meaning. It is ecstacy; it is a feeling to enjoy which-look at me! look at me, child!-I would, much as I love my parents and ready as I would be to offer up my life to serve them-yes, it is a feeling to enjoy which I would almost kill those parents!" 
               There was something solemn-something frightful in this exclamation. It fell upon Adelaide like a clap of thunder. Instinctively shrinking within herself she turned her eyes upon Marah's face from which the last vestige of color was just departing. It was earnest, fixed, almost stern, but beautiful, queen-like, full of the woman nevertheless. 
               A pause of a minute, and Marah continued, faintly smiling: 
               "You see I can be as enthusiastic as a school-girl almost, and perhaps to too great an excess which might be attributable to my utter indifference to all other subjects. But be this as it may, one thing you have discovered: to speak of love and Clifford Vane inspires me with an enthusiasm you are still too young, but will sooner or later learn, to understand and be as happy to feel." 
                
               "If it is calculated," Adelaide replied innocently, "to make one as happy as it has made you, I should not seriously mind it were it-since it has to come sooner or later, any how, you say-to touch my heart now." Then abruptly-"could you now-but don't get angry at my foolish question-live without loving Mr. Vane-without loving some man?" And Adelaide blushed and dropped her eyelashes, as if ashamed of having put the question. 
               "You are no longer a child, young as you are," she said in return, "and therefore I will answer you. You ask me whether I could live without loving Mr. Vane. I answer, yes. I know not why I should not be able to live without loving Clifford Vane. But had you asked me whether I could at will forget that love, be unconscious of that feeling, free myself of the hold it has upon my heart, I should have answered you, that I can not forget it, can not become unconscious of it, and that, since I do love him, I would die, so firmly seems that passion to have taken root within me and subordinated all the others, had I to relinquish him now. And then you ask me whether I could live without loving some man. I think-in fact, I know-I could not live without loving. Adelaide! Adelaide! we are all born to love; yes, every one of us. The queen upon her throne, the regal crown upon her head; the haughtiest dame that ever graced a drawing-room; the rich and the poor; the handsome and the ugly; the gracefully shaped and the hideously deformed-all, all, dear Adelaide, differ we however much in thought and feeling, one thing we all have in common-one thing governs us all-one thing lives in every heart-noble or vile-and that is love. We are its slaves, and when once it has its hold upon us, it leaves us only with our latest breath. Hence so much happiness-so much misery. Happiness for those who can and do enjoy the object of their love: misery-misery almost beyond endurance for those who are doomed, from day to day, from year to year, to feel and feed that seething flame within their hearts, unable to still--O! how it shoots through, and fires, every nerve!-its never satisfied and its never satisfiable demands! It steals into our hearts we know not how; it comes we know not whence; it makes us feel joyous and we know not wherefore. We laugh and are happy and feel a strange thrill-such a strange thrill-pass through our ticklish and tickled frame. We feel-we know not how we feel. We are alive to the sweetest, sweetest sensation. We grow playful and frisky in a wild fit of wanton gaiety. The heart gets too full; the thrill, the unnerving feeling, the indescribable ecstacy becomes too great to be endured alone. We must share it with another. It no longer lets us rest either by day or night, awake or asleep. It fills our imaginations with strange fancies and seeks, unasked, unreasoning and unreasoned, the being with whom to share that wealth. Happy, thrice happy, Adelaide, is the woman who has found, can, and may enjoy, her mate! Wretched, wretched, a fate worse than death-to have found a mate and having found him must not, dare not, can not take him to her heart to still its wild-its maddening throbs. Adelaide! this love-this celestial love-lives in every woman's heart, and even the poorest cripple, abhorred and shunned by all mankind on account of her deformity, is fired by that selfsame love, and dies inch by inch-the poor, unpitied wretch-from the torture she is doomed to endure without a hope of mitigation. Look at her as she limps along! love speaks in her eyes, darts from her subdued glances, glows upon her cheeks, trembles upon her lips, quivers in her voice, speeds through her veins, flits before her imagination, burns, burns, burns in her heart, intensified ten thousand fold from its very isolation-all this and not a soul to know, appreciate or care for it! Yes, this love, dear Adelaide, makes heroines of us. What would not a woman dare to enjoy it? What does not a woman have to endure to forego its exquisite delights? I, Adelaide, dared. I loved-I became wild with it; it never left me either while awake or asleep. It thrilled my soul with ecstacy. I tried and tried to throw off its influence over me. But the more I tried the weaker I grew. I could not resist it any longer-I listened to its whispers." 
               Marah paused, and turning her eyes away from Adelaide's face riveted her gaze upon the opposite wall. She was thinking of the great sacrifice she had made, and a feeling of sadness stole, against her will, into her heart and made her thoughtful. Adelaide observed the change and remained silent. Thus one looking at the wall, and the other playfully handling the novel, several minutes elapsed. At last Marah recollected herself and once more turning her face to her youthful companion, continued in a subdued tone: 
               "Yes, Adelaide, I listened to its whispers, and I became Mr. Vane's, ready and willing to follow him whithersoever destiny may call him." 
               "You must be really very happy." 
               "I am, Adelaide, as happy, I presume, as a wife who loves and is loved in return can be. And were it not for the estrangement existing between myself and parents, I would not change places with any living being under the sun. As it is, however, I have my hours of despondency, and my heart upraids me for the cold desertion of my aged father." 
               A pain shot over her brow, and tears stood in the corners of her eyes. Fearing that Adelaide might consider her weak, she hastily rose from her seat and approached the window. When she returned, some few minutes later, to sit down again, Adelaide's glance fell upon a face, that looked incapable of expressing any thing but hardness. Adelaide, however, ventured to say: 
               "I should not grieve on that account, Mrs. Vane. Your father and mother will become reconciled to you again. I know mother has been frequently very angry at me, and I thought sometimes she would never forgive my remissnesses, but her anger never held out long, and I suppose it will be the same way with your parents." 
               Marah slowly shook her head as if in doubt. 
               "You know not, Adelaide, how greatly I have offended them in marrying Mr. Vane. My father, I feel it in here," and she placed her hand to her heart, "will never forgive me that offence. Any thing else I might have done would not have hurt his feelings as greatly as this step against the taking of which he so solemnly had admonished me. I am not given to boasting, child, but few are the maidens in this land whose homes can afford half the comforts mine had done, and whose social standing could compare with mine. Esteemed, honored, worshipped, and living in the greatest affluence, I soared in a world of joy and luxury, from whence I could look down upon a host of suitors who were all too happy to catch a single smile of me. I knew not what care or sorrow was; my mother and my father ever were indulgent to my faults. If I offended or did a thing amiss my mother would reprove me kindly, but my father-God, protect him!-my father only had blessings for me. And see, Adelaide, how I have repaid their thousand kindnesses, and judge for yourself whether so undutiful a daughter as I have been deserves, or has a right to expect, their pardon." 
               Adelaide, not knowing precisely what to answer, evaded the question and simply remarked, that she thought it was wrong for parents to interfere, and this sometimes without sufficient cause, in affair of the heart. That Mr. Vane was such a 'nice' gentleman that she really felt astonished and was at a loss to understand what serious objections could have been raised against him. All that she had ever seen of Mr. Vane was speaking highly in his favor, and she was not a bit astonished that she (Marah) should have become so greatly attached to him. 
               Here Marah again got to praising Clifford Vane, and her youthful listener had never heard so many noble traits attributed to any gentleman, so that she, while the other spoke, could, on several occasions, scarcely refrain from expressing her own admiration at Marah's idol. 
               In this manner hour after hour passed by: one never tiring of singing Clifford's praises, the other never wearying to hear them. It was drawing toward evening, and they still sat together. They had simply lunched this day and intended to wait with the regular meal until Mr. Vane could join them. Marah was just saying that she would retire to the kitchen herself in order to prepare supper in the place of Mrs. Harrington who had always superintended it herself, when the door bell rung, and a few minutes later told them that Mr. Vane had returned home. As his voice reached them from the hall below and his steps were heard ascending the short flight of stairs, joy was depicted in Marah's face, but, Adelaide, scarcely knowing why, felt a pang shoot through her heart, and turned as pale as a sheet of linen. 
               The door to their apartment opened, and in stepped Clifford Vane a faint smile lighting up his handsome face. Reaching out his hands, one to Marah and one to Adelaide, his brightly-shining eyes alternately falling upon each, he advanced into the center of the room, listening to the welcome repeated and repeated a thousand times, until he interrupted it by saying: 
               "And how have you spent the day together? What have you been doing to break the monotony of the hours? But, by the way-" lightly passing away from these questions as if not expecting a reply, he added, with a show of no little concern,-"what good news has your mother brought of the health of the invalid? What? Not yet returned? Won't return tonight? The Lady still poorly and helpless? Just like your mother, Adelaide, to sacrifice her own comforts in order to help a suffering creature in her days of tribulation." 
               Saying this he sat down and made himself easy. Marah took a seat by his side and, while a lively conversation was kept up between the trio, looked proudly into his manly countenance. He seemed to be in the best of humor, and narrated, with no little skill, several incidents of unusual interest. He was listened to with the profoundest attention. Thus an hour and a half passed by and it did not seem-at least to the ladies-a minute. Adelaide rose to go down-stairs, but Marah insisted to stay with Mr. Vane while she herself would repair to the kitchen to get the evening meal ready. Seeing Adelaide hesitate, Clifford Vane, appropriately and in a humorous manner, seconded his wife's request, and before Adelaide could utter a syllable Marah had disappeared behind the door and she was alone with Mr. Vane. 
               She looked up, feeling a strange trepidation. 
               "Why don't you sit down, Adelaide? Or do you think you look handsomer standing?" 
               She smiled-smiled that sweet smile of innocence that all the arts of dissimulation can not produce, and the wily tempter, his heart bent upon her destruction, looked upon her with a sense of undisguised admiration. Their eyes met, and quick as thought a blush-a deep scarlet blush-mantled her cheeks, and, while she lowered her face, her strangely agitated bosom swelled to her lovely throat and threatened to burst the closely-fitting bodice of her gown. 
               At this moment a laugh-a hearty, manly laugh-escaped through Clifford's lips, and rang like the clear, deep sound of a bell through the room. Adelaide looked up hastily-looked once more into his eyes, that had had, as she had fancied, a strange meaning in them, and felt quite relieved. She must have been mistaken; she had certainly not seen aright, she had been a goose, no doubt, to have been frightened at what she now blushed to think over. Never were eyes more honest, confiding and open. 
               What a goose she had been! 
               She laughed too-both her face and eyes, and, as if to punish herself for her foolish ideas, she nimbly walked across the room and took a seat by his side. 
               "Now this pleases me," he said, smiling. "I should have been angry-at least not in as good a humor-had you declined to sit near me. For I like you, Adelaide, and find no little pleasure in your society. Come and tell me, how have you spent the day? Have you been merry, or have you missed your mother and felt lonesome without her?" 
               "No, indeed," she answered, raising her sweet face to his. "I have not felt the least lonesome. How could I? Mrs. Vane is too good a companion to wish for any other." 
               "And if it is a fair question to ask I should be pleased to have you tell me what interesting topics received your attention, and made those long hours-for to me they seemed long-so enjoyable to you?" 
               Adelaide blushed and for a moment hesitated. At last, however, seeing that Mr. Vane remained silent as if expecting to hear her say something, she replied: 
               "O, we talked of so many things-so much nonsense-I'm sure you would not have the patience to listen to the recital even of the least part of it. You know what foolish things ladies, when they are alone, will talk about. And we are no exception to the rule. Therefore you must excuse me from satisfying your curiosity, for you would laugh at me any how." 
               "What reasons have you to think so? No, indeed, the contrary. I should find considerable pleasure in listening to you. Besides, Marah does not often speak foolishly. But-" and here he paused, and lowered his head-"but, perhaps, you may have some reasons for wishing to remain silent. You must excuse me, I really had no desire to seem rude. Whatever secrets might have been interchanged between you-not being for my ears-I trust you will not divulge them. I was-yes, rude I was-to press you to tell me what topics you had discussed." 
               Considerably embarrassed, Adelaide assured him that there had been no secrets discussed between Mrs. Vane and herself, and if she hesitated in complying with his wish it was simply on account of her not thinking that he could find the least interest in her repeating-of which task she felt confident that she could not acquit herself with any satisfaction-what he must know and have felt long ago. But since her silence might be construed into confirming his suspicions, she thought it best to satisfy his curiosity at the expense of making herself ridiculous. 
               Now, without raising her head, and her fingers playingly engaged in the folds of her dress, she began to tell him first, of Mrs. Vane's defence of novel-reading, and how the latter had been induced to do so. Then she also told him what praises his wife had showered upon him, and finally repeated to him all that Marah had uttered upon "love." 
               "I do not think Marah ought to have spoken to you about love, Adelaide," said Clifford as soon as she had ceased speaking-"at least not with that enthusiasm that might improperly excite your own feeling sooner than advisable. You are still young-so young, Adelaide-that with all the description one may give you of love, you must still have an inadequate idea of it, so long as your own heart is not touched by it. That it is sweet to love-that it is the only bliss granted to mortals-none will deny; and that you will sooner or later feel the truth of this assertion I am confident. For Adelaide," and here he, with the greatest respect, drew her small hand in his, "you are of a disposition to love. You need not avert your eyes nor blush at what I tell you, Adelaide-come, sit nearer me-yes, you are of a disposition to love, and your very appearance is such that the coldest heart must warm at it. Blush again! foolish girl, I shall not say another word to you if you turn your face away from me. Yes; you are beautiful and blessed with many charms to attract the attention of, and awaken the strongest feelings of love in, man. For my sex is not blind to such heavenly beauties." 
               "Don't, Mr. Vane, please don't; you make me feel ashamed of myself," and Adelaide, her lovely face grown lovelier by the rosy tint that had spread itself over it, tried to move a little further away from him. 
               "Don't what?" he repeated, softly. "Will you always remain a child, Adelaide? Look up into my face-that's it. I can speak much better now when I can look into your eyes. Yes, you have a lovely form, you are graceful and nimble, and your eyes betray the love you are capable of feeling though it is still slumbering in your heart." 
               "O, Mr. Vane, why do you tell me such things?" she whispered, her head bending over her swelling bosom. "Please speak of something else-something mother would not object me to hear. She does not want me to know any thing of love, and if she did, and if I did, what good would it do me as long as there is none upon whom I might lavish it? I fear, Mr. Vane, you are only trying to make me vain by speaking of my humble self in such high terms. I'm sure no one else thought or told me that I was beautiful." 
               "Then let me be the first, Adelaide, to confess it to you. What others think I know not, but to my eyes you are as beautiful as an angel. Happy will be the man who shall have the right to call you his. But, since your mother would object to seeing you a woman too soon for fear of losing you, I will drop this subject and only touch upon it again when you shall give me encouragements to do so." 
               Clifford Vane was a great conversationalist, and at no time before did he try to exert his powers to please with greater success. Whether he was fired with well-feigned enthusiasm, vivacious and bright with wit, touched with sentimentality, entertaining with well-timed or spicy remarks, or eloquent in his conceptions and descriptions, Adelaide was irresistibly carried away by the spell he thus threw around her, and felt, as his words fell upon her ears, as if she could listen to him for a whole life time and not get weary of it. 
               Though he had said he would drop the subject of love, yet gradually, as if unconscious of it himself, he had found his way back to it, Adelaide listening to every word that fell from his lips. Deeper and deeper he went into the subject, bolder and bolder became his expressions, and when he got through, and Marah entered to notify them that supper was waiting for them, Adelaide had heard from his lips strange and wild words of love and passion which she had not understood, but which set her thinking not only during the rest of the evening, but long after she had retired to bed, she still lay awake imagining to see before her eyes the handsome, earnest face of Clifford Vane. 
               Thus she fell asleep, this train of thought somewhat confusedly passing through her mind, but nevertheless enjoying the sweetest dreams she had ever had, and once or twice a silver laugh unconsciously passed through her lips as she disarranged the snowy cover that hid her delicate form, and threw her lovely pink arms, wreath-like, around that sweet pale face. 
             
             
               CHAPTER XXIV. 
               PASSION AGAINST WILE. 
               IT was the morning of the sixth of September and Clifford Vane, having taken a hasty breakfast, said farewell to the ladies, who had, owing to Mrs. Harrington's absence, risen earlier than usual, and left the house. Having walked about two blocks he hailed a 'bus, which, about twenty minutes later, deposited him in front of Station A. Post office. 
               "Any thing for C. V?" he inquired, affably, of the clerk. "A letter? No? A telegram? Why, this must be of some importance," and he took the buff envelope the clerk had handed to him, and with his pen-knife opened it on its side. He slowly sauntered away, back into the street, where he evinced, not being observed, considerably more eagerness for knowing the contents, than he had done in the presence of the clerk, and therefore hastily opened the small sheet upon which was written: 
               
                   
                      
                         
                           
                              CINCINNATI, Sept. 6, 18-. 
                              MR. CLIFFORD VANE-
                            
                           Shall leave for New York this evening on the Atlantic & Great Western. Meet me at the depot. 
                           
                              ISAAC KOLTINZKY.
                            
                         
                      
                  
                
               A smile of triumph played around his lips and a wicked glance darted from his eyes. The bait had been a good one, and the old fool had nabbed at it. Isaac Koltinzky would come to New York! Would he were here already, thought Clifford Vane, tore both envelope and message and threw the little pieces upon the pavement. 
               He walked on pretty briskly, being in an exceedingly good humor. Every thing seemed to work well with him. It would not be very long before he could enjoy the fruit of his labor. He intended to make short work of it. Once in possession of the money for which he was intriguing then he would take wing for another part of the country, change his name, and lead a life more suited to his tastes. Pleasure and excitement! Yes, he would run a wild race while youth, strength and wealth were his. Alone? No! Adelaide-sweet Adelaide-that lovely, pale-faced, black-haired girl of fifteen, should follow him and enjoy his love. Her lithe and graceful form had captivated his eye and awoke a tender feeling in his heart. The conversation he had held with her on the previous evening, and the attention with which she had listened to every word he had spoken, convinced him that she was a true child of her mother, and might, not unlike that mother, be won over by words of love uttered at the proper time and on the right occasion. That he would leave no stone unturned to win her affection, he was resolved upon. She had filled his heart with wild desires-had made her mother's as well as Marah's love nauseous to him-and was it less than fair that he should require her love in return for what he might have enjoyed, had she not, like a ray of light, come between them, and, in spite of himself, stole his peace of mind and brought about that change? 
               Yes, she should go with him and be his companion of pleasure, and for her sake, he would in the future respect, what he had never done, and spare, what he had thought he never could do, the sex to which she belonged. He fancied her transcendent charms sufficiently strong and irresistible to satisfy his heart's desire for love through life. She was both young and innocent-a pleasure to think of it-was she not born to comfort man, and why not him as well as any other? 
               What cared he for Marah or for Carrie Harrington now? He knew that both these women-especially the dignified, well-developed Jewess-had charms that could awaken the strongest love in the bosom of any man. But he had wearied of Marah since Adelaide's image had begun to float before his vision, and as to Carrie Harrington-he felt amused, handsome as she was in the ripeness of her summer and in the irresistibility of her strong passions, at the idea of making that "buxom jade," as he called her, his lawful wife. No, that frail, pale-faced, large-eyed child of fifteen should feel the strength of his manly love, and both Marah and Carrie Harrington might, for aught he cared, become nuns and in the arms of some soft-natured and susceptible father-confessor forget the loss sustained by his base desertion of them. 
               While thus, in walking along, meditating over his future prospects, not a spark of compunction was in his heart for the good, loving, faithful Marah he intended to sacrifice, and whose peace of mind he was determined to destroy. What cared he for the love she felt for him? Was she not Isaac Koltinzky's daughter-the child of that damned Jew who had had the audacity to insult him? And was that not enough to justify the bitterest hate for her? What mattered it to him what would become of her after he had discarded her? It did not trouble his mind whether she would return a broken-hearted wretch to her home, or become a woman of easy virtue and a street-loiterer. If he understood his heart correctly, it gloried in her utter ruin-the ruin he had effected-he, Clifford Vane, the man her father despised, and thought unworthy of her-her whom he should be glad if the lowest wretch would claim. And all this brought about by Clifford Vane! He chuckled at the idea, so greatly was he pleased with himself. 
               Marah Koltinzky-the proud, Jewish belle-the woman who had been worshiped both for her beauty and virtue; before whose feet suitors by the dozen had knelt and were rejected-Marah, the idol, the apple of her father's eyes overcome, duped and ruined by Clifford Vane-what a sweet revenge! 
               Yes, when the time arrived he would make short work with her-that old fool (meaning Carrie Harrington) would be all too ready to help him to remove, what she would but consider, her rival, safely out of her way. And then, and then the old jade-- 
               But here who should come but Carrie Harrington herself? As he saw her a smile wreathed his manly face, and he said, with a feeling of pleasure discoverable in the very intonation of his voice: 
               "My dearest love, I was just on my way to the hotel. The devil take me if I had a bit of rest since I saw you. I dreamed about you all night; never was so restless before in all my life. Take my arm, love, and let's get away from here, unless we feel inclined to have ourselves smothered to death." 
               She took his arm, saying, as they, jostling, made their way through the crowd, 
               "My calculation was correct after all. I thought I should meet you on this street. You come from the post-office, Mr. Vane-any news?" 
               "Yes, the best of news, Mrs. Harrington," he replied, joyfully. "I am in receipt of a telegram-he comes."-he comes." 
               At this information her eyes, that had been inquiringly raised to his face until now, began to look groundward, and Clifford discovered that her countenance was unusually pale and thoughtful, and wore a troubled expression. He appeared, however, not to have noticed the change, and only said, after they had gone several paces without having elicited any reply: 
               "Yes, he comes, dearest, and if every thing thrives as we have a right to hope it will, the day is not far distant when I shall be able to call you mine-mine, mine forever to love, cherish and adore, dearest." 
               These words seemed to infuse her with some little animation. She riveted herself closer to his arm, and he could feel the pulsation of her heart, as she now raised her face to his and said: 
               "When do you expect him to arrive?" 
               "This is Wednesday morning-isn't it? Yes. Well, he intends to start from home on this evening's train, which will, if nothing prevents him from leaving, and no accident befall the train, make him due here on Friday morning." 
               "I am glad that he will not arrive until then," she replied, appearing to feel quite relieved at this information. 
               "Why so?" 
               "Because I am scarcely prepared to play the part you have assigned to me. I shall be considerably uneasy-have been so ever since I thought over it last night-until this girl of yours is removed from my house. The sooner you find another place for her the better." 
               "I can not see the necessity of this haste, dearest," he replied, suggestively, "but since her presence in your house is causing you, though I consider it unnecessary, uneasiness, I shall make her stay there as short as possible, but I don't think it practicable to remove her at once." 
               "I can't see why it should not be practicable," she argued in return. "You will have to remove her sooner or later anyhow, so it can in reality make very little difference when you do it. Besides," and here Clifford fancied he could discover a hidden meaning in the expression of her large blue eyes-"besides, I have a strong desire to change my own residence-and that to-morrow, before Mr. Koltinzky comes, you know-and move into a different quarter of the city." 
               "Mrs. Harrington," Clifford rejoined, with a smile on his face, "I really must confess that I can not imagine the necessity for you to change your own residence. For the life of me I can not see the danger that threatens you there. But, my dear," and he shrugged his shoulders, "your wish is my law. If you entertain any fears of being exposed to danger at the house you now occupy, sooner than to take the least risk I would have you change your habitation forthwith. But this is no place to discuss this matter. Tell me, where shall we go? I presume we have no other choice than take a room at some hotel. Yes, yes, it will spare us the annoyance of interruption, and I shall have the happiness of enjoying your company with no other eyes to feed upon that lovely face of yours than mine own." 
               Again she pressed his arm and he felt the strong and hasty beating of her heart, as she gazed into his eyes which were so tenderly-so full of mischief and desire-turned upon her animated features. She noticed their expression, read its unmistakable language and felt happy. 
               "Yes, let us go into some room where we can speak without interruption," she said. "The street is too public a place at all events; we can't tell what acquaintances of mine or yours may meet us, and expose us to unnecessary explanations." 
               "I am satisfied," replied Clifford. "One hotel being as good as any other, we'll enter the first one we come to. But now tell me, dearest, where were you yesterday when I called on you at the St. Nicholas? You were not at home, I was informed by the clerk. Was it so, or was he simply carrying out your instructions to that effect?" 
               "He was correct, Mr. Vane--" 
               "Clifford, if you please, dearest-call me Clifford, as I shall call you Carrie, for are not our hearts beating in unison together-why, then, this ceremony? So call me Clifford, and I shall listen." 
               "Well, Clifford be it then," she said, smiling. Then continuing where she had broken off-"I was absent-to make some small purchases-" (this was a falsehood, for it was when she had gone to meet Reuben)-"but even if I had been at my rooms, I presume you know by this time, you would have found it a difficult task to have access to them." 
               "I must compliment you to your success with the proprietor of the St. Nicholas. He is really interested in your welfare, and is determined to protect you from my presence or any of my importunities." 
               Carrie smiled and said: 
               "Yes, on my return, Mr. Holland-this is the proprietor's name-informed me that you had called with the intention of seeing me either in my own apartment or in the drawing-room-just to suit my own convenience and inclination-and that he had promptly met your request with a flat denial, and plainly told you--" 
               "Let me tell you, dearest, what he told me, and you can judge then how good a guardian you have chosen. On my requesting this interview, he begged my name, when I handed him my card, which he scarcely glanced at. 'Your name is Mr. Vane,' he said, 'from Cincinnati, I believe?' 'Could I see the lady-Miss Koltinzky?' I broke in. 'One moment, if you please,' he said, very deliberately-with a deliberation and a cool impudence for which I should have made his cheeks tingle, had I not known that the fool was just playing the part we had assigned for him, 'one moment; the lady is not in; but even if she were, I should find myself under the necessity to refuse you any admittance to her room-' 'The drawing room will suit as well, sir,' I interrupted, to which he shook his head and added, 'nor there, sir,' with some dignity. 'The lady is in my charge-shall be so until her father shall have arrived to claim her. In the mean time I consider it my duty to protect her from any intrusion.' 'I hope you will not consider my presence an intrusion-remember, dear sir, I have a claim-' He would not let me speak out, but interrupted me by saying, 'You labor under a grievous error. The lady seeks the greatest privacy, wishes to see no one and least of all-you. For she has particularly begged me-yes, sir, begged me on her knees to protect her against you, and I tell you now, once for all, that you shall not see the lady as long as she is in my charge and unwilling to change her resolution.' Thus, dear Carrie, for nearly an hour the dolt played the part we had assigned for him, he refusing to grant my request, I continuing to urge it, now beggingly, then authoritatively, and neither availing me, I threatened, but all to no purpose: the fool stuck to his word, and so we parted, he haughty, returning behind the counter, I angry, trying to find my way out into the street, as soon as I had seen the farce successfully played out. But tell me, dearest, did he not tell you of this on your return?" 
               "He did, Clifford, but I could scarcely look into his eyes, for the deception I was practicing on him must have been written in indelible letters on my face. O, Clifford! Clifford! you know not-never will know-" she was then thinking of Reuben, "what sacrifice I'm making to enjoy your love." 
               "Don't say, dearest," replied Mr. Vane, softly, "that I have asked you to do-" 
               "No, no, Clifford," she interrupted, hastily, "don't mistake me. Had you asked of me my life, to enjoy your love but for an hour, to lie on your arm and look into that face of yours-why, Clifford, but to touch, to press your hand but for a little, little while-yes, had you asked of me my life even for that, I should cheerfully have laid it down." 
               He looked at her, as she walked by his side, full of majesty and grace, and regretted-the first honest regret he had felt for years-that the warm, wild love he had kindled in the bosom of that susceptible woman could not awaken a responsive feeling in his own. He was, however, flattered with the conquest he had made, and had it even not been his interest, he would still have thought it his duty, to keep up her delusion, rather than mercilessly destroy the happiness of this new sensation-new for aught he knew, for the fiftieth time-he had awakened in her heart. 
               He lowered his head, and said in a low tone: 
               "By my own feeling, dearest, I can judge the fervency of yours. Persons of our health and constitution don't love like children. O, Carrie, would to God we were married-that I could call you mine, that I-O, Carrie, how happy I should be!" 
               She did not reply-her heart was too full of the passionate love which he was so artfully feigning for her-but silently walked by his side, now and then darting furtive glances at his handsome, manly figure, and prayed, as she had not prayed for years, that nothing might come between her and that man who had woven so wondrous a spell around her and awoke in her heart-O, good God! what did he kindle in her heart! 
               A thrill of ecstacy passed slowly through her whole frame, and, when Clifford lowered his head to tell her that they would shortly be in sight of a hotel, he encountered her beautiful blue eyes, with such a wondrously tender expression and overflown with tears, rapturously gazing at him. 
               After this they grew silent, the mind of each occupied with thoughts and reflections of the gravest nature. The street upon which they walked was crowded with pedestrians of both sexes, age and youth, wealth and poverty represented alike, and alike borne on the never resting billows of life to be sunk into the nonsparing sea of eventual oblivion to all. Carrie Harrington, still leaning on Clifford's arm, looked neither here nor there-neither at the youthful or the aged-the rich or the poor. Her eyes were turned inward. What interest had she now in humanity at large? What cared she for what transpired outside of her little world? And was not her whole world her burning heart, from which Clifford Vane had nearly succeeded to expel her own Adelaide's image? And was not Clifford-that splendid daredevil-now by her side? And was not her own arm leaning-and that heavily, too-on his? How then was it to be expected that she could think of any one else? And yet there was something in her mind that would not let her enjoy the moment without some occasional pang. Was it fear for the promise she had given Clifford to assist him in his projects? Was it distrust in her own self to do justice to the part she intended to play? Was it apprehension of exposure, or was it that a feeling of doubt as to his love for her that crossed her mind, and made her so pensive and self-absorbed? 
               Much mental food as these doubts and fears might have given a woman of less nerve and assurance, they would not have disturbed her own equanimity. The part she had consented to play she felt herself equal to, and as to his affections for her she would sooner have doubted and mistrusted her own feelings than his. But the sharp thorn that pricked and pierced her came from quite a different direction. Yes, that sharp thorn stuck there-almost reaching the vital part-and she knew not how to remove it. The least wrong position she might take and it would prove fatal. 
               Reuben Armhold! Her husband! 
               This was the stumbling block-the terrible stumbling block-she could not overlook.-Here was happiness-a felicity, almost heavenly, within her reach-and nothing to endanger her thorough enjoyment of it except his existence! To see the cup of bliss held to her thirsty lips to quaff it empty, and find a hand ready to dash it to the ground should she but attempt to touch it! The thought maddened her! Could imprecations seal the fate of man Reuben Armhold would not have lived a moment. Much and passionate as she loved Clifford Vane it was in intensity nothing to the hatred she at this moment felt for the man who was her husband, was father of her daughter, and whom she-and she only-had been the cause to ruin. Good God! what uneasiness she had experienced ever since his unexpected arrival! and the more she thought over what the consequences might be, the greater grew that uneasiness. If Clifford Vane would hear that she had a living husband-- 
               If-- 
               No; there must be no ifs. He should never hear of it. Hear of it? Would she not sooner die on the rack even than lose his love? And would the discovery of this terrible secret not bring about that result? Why, then, should she stop at any expediency to insure her happiness? Yes, the first step must be to remove forthwith. Not another day, if possible, should pass before this was done. Once in another locality, the danger of being discovered by Reuben, would be less imminent, and in the mean time something might-might? would have to turn up, to remove him from her path. 
               But how could she impress upon Clifford's mind the great necessity for a hasty change of location, without assigning more potent reasons than a fear of discovery by Mr. Isaac Koltinzky? For might he not meet her with arguments it would be preposterous to refute? And would not then her persistence very naturally awaken suspicions? And might he not then obstinately use all his logic in order to allay, what he would justly consider, her illfounded fears and apprehensions? 
               O, how her heart ached her! A thousand thoughts flitted through her mind, but not one-- 
               Yes, yes-and she felt a heavy load roll off her heart-she had struck upon an idea that would serve the purpose, and allay all suspicions that otherwise her persistency in her hasty removal might have aroused in Mr. Vane's bosom. 
               She raised her soft blue eyes to his, and smilingly meeting his glance, moved closer to his side, and hurriedly said-in a coquettish manner that would have better suited, had she been eight-and-twenty years younger: 
               "Darling mine, I love you so much-ain't I a silly goose, darling?" 
               He smiled-smiled an ineffably sweet smile-and while these words raised in his heart a feeling of disgust, which he could only by his great command over himself refrain from expressing, he whispered in her ear: 
               "You are my angel, dearest," then he mentally asked himself whether he had not been guilty of having too good an opinion of the female sex and that the wisest of them is, in affairs of the heart, to say the least-a fool. 
                
               After this they walked on in silence. We catch up with them again after they had reached the hotel Clifford Vane had referred to, and had been shown to a room. 
               Carrie Harrington divested herself of shawl and bonnet and made herself quite comfortable, then took her seat by the side of Clifford, who had thrown himself on an ottoman in an attitude more of ease than elegance. 
               "Now, tell me, dearest," he commenced, gently drawing her not unwilling hand into his, "why you really are in such great haste to change your residence. It is scarcely possible that you can apprehend any great danger from the assistance you have been good enough to promise me. Why then this haste, dearest? You can surely have no secret you would not intrust me with." 
               "Nor have I, Clifford," she replied, confidently looking into his eyes. "The man who has won my heart-the man who is to be my guiding star for the rest of my days-is entitled to every thought that passes through my mind. And you shall know the reason why I am in so great a haste to leave the abode in which I have been for years leading a peaceful life of undisturbed retirement." 
               "Your readiness to unburthen your heart to me, dearest Carrie," Clifford replied, gently stooping and printing a kiss-that sent a glow into her eyes-upon her upturned lip, "assures me of your great trust in me, and I feel no slight satisfaction in having found so great a jewel. But, I'm not worthy of you, Carrie, and I am only puzzled for the reason why the fickle Goddess of Fortune should have blessed me-the vilest wretch of mankind, I verily believe-with so lovely a woman, unless it be to punish you, my dearest?" 
               That splendid woman at his feet, intoxicated with his flatteries, raised her queenly head, and her eyes growing brighter and brighter as they fed upon the strong manly figure with so much unstudied grace reclining there, she said: 
               "To punish me, dearest? To punish me? O, good God! May you never punish those I love with a severer rod!" and she smiled, her face beaming with happiness. "But I have not yet told you the cause of my uneasiness. I will tell you now so you can judge for yourself of the necessity of my speedily leaving my abode. Adelaide, my dear child, has unfortunately attracted the attention of a young man-think, my dear Clifford, child as she still is in years, knowledge and experience-who has had the boldness to ask me for her hand, and I, refusing him, knowing him to be an exceedingly worthless trifler and rou, in the heat of the moment, he simply answered that he knew how to win the daughter's love, and that in less than twice twenty four hours my Adelaide-good God! my Adelaide-would be his, though he had never yet broached the subject to her. Clifford, I am a mother and feel as a mother. My child, my uncorrupted, unsophisticated child is in danger. My dear Adelaide, innocent as an unborn babe--O, Clifford! Clifford!" and she looked appealingly into his eyes-"help me, if you love me, and you do love me-from that dangerous place. This very day yet, let not another hour if possible see her at the old home. Rooms can be had almost on any square. Take her as far as you will, so she is out of danger and I shall feel again at ease, and bless you all my life." 
               "If a promise to that effect will make you feel at ease, Adelaide shall find another home in less than twice three hours. Now sit by my side and once more let us discuss our plans." 
               She sat down by him, he twined his arm around her waist, and thus, lovingly looking into each other's eyes, they matured the plan that was to seal the fate of Isaac Koltinzky and his daughter Marah. 
               Had Clifford Vane-had Carrie Harrington been able to read the future-had they had the skill to pierce the veil that hid from them the coming events-they would have dropped each other's hand as if they had been live coal-and fled to the extremest corners of the earth sooner than have resolved to commit the deeds that was to startle and shock, on account of their unnaturalness, a horrified community. 
               But they could not read the future, and the Nemesis of destruction was presiding in their hearts. 
               Thus blindly they approached the abyss that opened before their advancing feet, little dreaming of the fate awaiting them. 
               A little more caressing-a little more lovemaking-and the two separated, each upon a mission of destruction. 
               On that self-same day-in that self-same hour-arrived in the city of New York, ESAU, Kate Strong's foster brother. 
               As he left the car he stumbled and fell on the platform. Rising, a dark frown came across his brow, and he muttered to himself: 
               "'Tis a bad omen. They say persons meeting such accidents die unnatural deaths." 
               Thus thinking he passed into the crowd in which he was soon lost, and better would it have been for him, for Clifford Vane, for Carrie Harrington, had he never found his way out of it. 
             
            END OF PART I. 
         
       
   
