
    ----CITATION----
        Ritner, William D.. The Great Original and Entrancing Romance, the Fireman's Bride, or, Beautiful Myria, the Mad Actress .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC7594
    ----FULL TEXT----
         
      
         
            The great original and entrancing romance, the fireman's bride, or, Beautiful Myria, the mad actress 
            
               ' J  +1ee. ,THE
UiIEATQULG 1IIINAL
ENW{CIjNG ItBOMANCE
F~hEAN S BRIDE
H  MAD ACTRESS
x          B1I HITV OFJ M'] M t11LAr  ' =AND,1-INOOLD, Wl1OUO11
C +a   z W IIITIE 1Z!AxVLANGUfAGE AND ?P"PO''- 01,A
T '  T  *T- G8 -TO LIGH FAOTh MOST
,T LI "4'AND STRANGE.
~       -.    RIBUPE, MYSTRMYLOVE,
WIL1.BRREAD WITH A THRI lING AND LIVING INTEREST TO ALL.
PHTLADELPmA,
PUJBLISHED D YMX As IILLIETTE,
320 CHESTNUT STREET,
Li          Also New-York, Baltimore, Buffalo and Chidago


r

KA~

l #

Entered according to the act of Congress, in the year 158, by
M. A. ]rILLIETTE,
in the Clerk's Office of the, District Court of the United States in and
for the Eastern district of Pennsylvania.

O:HAPTERr L
-NnA1 the line wliodilpevioSto" Cornset dt tiothe
districts of Eort Nichmund a ids K i ito:; Y d - oi  M   a
a~.ll ie olth         S
Utit bse, soea  Od '9stloue e             v      '
.To this place of rugged retirement, the 'shop' of his weekly las'
erMarieeliten ia srnniiner fatidiohtteinthe-appiatnleats
of Jisastudy; oft reiied, &amp;/ka hiniself Cte and til isrs 6te,
to miatufre atid prepdra bihoidght fr the 'pireas.
*TtfwasaIfagit:Sunaay irning tha bouain injr,
_se Me    nicAuhor gathered together   is writing nateri.a
pen, ink and papers, and with the small scroll of an unfinished
story in his hand turned his steps with hopeful vigortoward s his-
usual place of selusidn, the Bot House. ;As he entered hastil~y
by a baeck door, lhe was watched narrowly by half adze iukyi-
gusgyg,%ek7ging t                       3half  .number of stout athletic sons
of the geri~d XSIe; bog~bred (reks:;ftWmoU* it the Isle 3neyg
the sea, for the deerois usesof theShprigof  hi a dgandi the
wholesale consumption of rotten whiskey.
Having watched him closely for several weeks, their suspicions
are now doubly confirmed that he secludes himself here only for

/.

IF

"4
tx

i

r
r ,


10                 TItZ F1B~ZIANS 13l !DD

the purpose of maturing come gigantic schene- or plot, by which
to overthrow the government and reduce the American republic
to a frightful state of An rehy.
Such was their suspieons- as they skulked behind a board
pile, and crouching low, watched the mechanic author-enter his
rugged studio.
'Now bethe owers w.wz 1li '        1jhoperty
the   fiis    t   Ai       , 1            mch ngi
pature.
'Let's take a closer paper atjthe Spalpeen, and see what the
d k        Uk do fo  i  Wday, lre    tinu  $ ,oii
$6feP ~aguisikaid"DinnItt~c~1i.
Rafferty, after consi dereearching found a good sized
knot-hole at Whieh by turits, they drank witlh inescribable
keeness the mysteriou     tvat .dof 'the mechanic author
as he sat dashing off page after page of, a well wrought tale
which all the power .of atMe ndRentration and thought teemed
absorbed.
zia'     m  aj         masj g rapidi  tide of tiinntri"g +uri-

ghy on, bayaO wae Aa  them inew  ome on ,
p Rixgolgll,~ing p ~bithsdlr JDartifto the
en          oionike the ,  liu.tor
fee@eatt         Wahdi- lf betrrfbe1 Tsound, nd
hig, tU  dldng into the dock ta otderedin the

. 'I

I
I

1rii FmxIA's 81

11

Ringgold and his company reached the boat house as those
who escaped them disappeared. But the two unfortunate ones
were just clambering out of the mud up the wharf, when their
pursuers espied them, and with a'wild, Indian like yell,.they
rushed towards them.  But they begged so hard to be spared
from a 'bating,' that th* t gig-e43Mm off with simply an ad.
dition of a propelling force, administered in the rear of each
might have been killed by them ugly Greeks,'*dia  n d en-
have surely been watching me to put me out of the way. -hg
WM A A
.ust in season. I thaw.y itdir i + i et hakkebal     e
g        ug2eger     g       n    Ih. y fwre ogibanf)for
ms.J   terpeto#Atgelgram      ~ hbwas4yl ekresh/  said
he, leading the way towards the hotel.
odWCdbga aiek~telin         igls te thle igh.'To
!9i          9     Q   patysiang  a youlivedehonor the
lsp2~n~taoMpth4 bU1o4 ysempo        e; ~Q. atd idare!
' a,                           iy e. usyeut haqd;ttit's
ha ni          t4d.din         Bc, ae   d      taijou.
+tU f Q geilok             em       figOreksa.therehe
A   roue aue ad Ishakn warkthM dhei     ied gn4 au
Don't let them get you in such a tight place again ieat ime
~hoy 'ib yA *yBQ 4W  b   tliAutaers a tri es; tllaBuck
Darts '11 drive ten thousad    te  jeopi    dlu dc tossing
They departed dowp4bast*'t $skidase    yet teemte&amp;
esJu4Q1gbyge r~h jagdr1h spybuiontheYate O&amp;ua eso:eMFts
950toho4~pai' atheJr.               ,. +

1o

.


12         TUN.JiX~'  1V

OHAPT    e It.r
pa t .toANm  1TA  ---TU WI.IGE -TUSIS- ROBBE-
MURD--MTERT   NGOLD's a5U5IeQl--sVRP
x -"DD    E- RW        GOLDA4   T
TIa public house in which  latenn  Jnk to the Ite  o
the 'Wilian ennm' wa  ept by a Oi 'as}J iiate Oaleb
Se ral e enngrbaeIdt to the beaeeotf irst @ehap,
awelldesed'aagod lNokIng riatts&amp; t1   aonot
aigles establi shmeatard riaving°i1 +=id a~paeed with mo
d4eofseoy,lettetin hkis bau.  A
Opening~ito ad hatroly saaaing4he o'tentite
dined hi head-llghtly;the- adde d aitlyp'Yeeir-4t11
right." -ada                 20We
' Then. ywil pleases graa me a0irie - aterview. The
note iiformwyou of mysit ati9n' r mkehehOs t ager. h.
then entered ahaek eweathe e ondo d he o etianed,
'you perceive ,M#r $eigi. dtt0% atiamipeined y the iere
of the governmit for ain0 teorirne. Iwsh tot beoncealed
fom :osh+t e. ° geWfsbp}de uit bt yalasteind sewre
1odginjs Tbnti theA'toti p haa blown over; an a iill toWrtd yeu*
hadoml  ws     &amp;  a   ast
:   AilWilldes lI ban,'erelie&amp;thei3 d with-a Iland smle,'
pleeved irbthe rsdrfretlp n a2
The stranger now-threw off his cloak, and ethbided -to -the
Wahrgis rrIturntscusnessiskyo
Watch his return to consciousness in#,Iabsibed  id rea,

40

,  +r
. z
.h

I   -1
-II
Sy4  L

night Iwill return, with another 2:ow I 4o not w'sk to ez
eo s spicion, will you be ready to receive megiet wheal
return?'
~eigle signified i~asxen anQcnu4ctin~ the   gejo s
door, the lattersaid
'I willbe here at twelve precisely, and! by tlreo rap44you
may knowdthat.it is
After the Oran ed, left, Seigle returned and g  s eepn
infnt.o.hs4fife 1l$tE i reaction to await it awaknin  mie
he returned to the saloon, one of the compa ny more iuisitive
than the others, inquired who the stranger was.
'An acquaintance recommended him to mie or admoda
tonss' answered the Jew,
. young nan, singularly now left the saloon muttering to
himself-
'This appears nysterius, Iwill see farther intoit.
At twelve, agreeable appointment, the stranger. returned
and was admitted noiselessly by Seigle, he had another child, a
litje girl of two years--like the other it was also asleep. Being
seated he said,
' These, Mr. Seigle are-my children, I love them dearly, and
when I depart I shall take them with me. But for the present,
you will please show me to a bed, for I am wearyYand need a
little rest'
le wasnoaw onducted to a comfortable couch and ore the
Jew left the oom he saw the gentleman place on the table a small
box.
'That contains valuables,' he muttered as he left the ro0m;
'and I must posessa it,
Two hours rolled away and the stranger had retired to rest
while the.Jew who could not sleep for his base, deligu uoa the
unsuspecting man-paced his own apartment impatiently; Budj
denly. le stopped. 'I'1 attempt it,' he muttered, and the nekt
instant stole from  his room  with steathly steps; readed the
entrance of the gen4 man's room, and after late ing amount,
quietlyqtriethe door -which yielded to his presre, it was un.
leked4 ho.entered and found the man sound asleep, pas
the light before his eyes but the sleeper moved not. The


cloeu Jew drewhis dirk, then placing 'the: light on fltuetable
eomrtuenied'leakliircg forthe ihdi of  ressu. 1lve Iaiines
perhaps elapsed and he was now unable to find it. drgN
his itesg' e    g      6  ab   e     pb e'4th   e er,
and at length discovpred the object of his s leh's 1e l ' 'ini
his' bosom.He;iee %ey         ge       ld18i;e!a  lke  ar-p
tially, and the Jew fearing detection, thiust  iFi "  t ' he
reasof Nhis vetimnh   A  liat   slilhtg,   ,   d   was
qYiet, whil th eassas s  ober'asil t   to"'ii ' own
room with his ill-gotton treatare
,Haviggcon'ahe           deiedt      tto   c a r
dug a lole ; then,' i-einrinig, he' "'edl his 'wirea lP ed to
her whathe had done.' She as horrottckn, bl ssei ng' th
dange thant threatened themo idin  ef  ,  ',e e 0 "
she consented to assist in conpealigg the body. They otgd
the mn-o all appearances '°Pteleas-'intb zhe  aerie a  and
placi ng' ' hi n ini the d g'r , ' cover d  ith 3rt f 1 he
loose earth
t'I cannotinisli'lt to-iigh.l  W fiaWit'&amp;   util err
ing, when I wIllcover ip so thptit shall neyer be  e
said teJw       l4iWufe3 ' i y' r'rgir 4"arci' etro yitrig the evi-
d e    =9 ; "l -5    l  "  Zy !  tlth;eiy, crime,  h «  u xs  n « n ,quie ai
the traces of The murder w re ' eio - d. '
Two years rolled away, .and Caleb Seigle had remove o
his former' residende.  4 f nd ini"'Wadedu       al  r-
t1i16 of the"ci     = 8 l.=% t ik  1 ' Idti'o    g  d
a l  a aeI, lucrative business. Tdutfear inl that keeping:
children tgehr    igtled   odeteetibh,  e &amp;atedtbe a-

4

14

-1-3RI D"k.

THE" IR (sN SRID
'GoQ morning sir,:I would speak with you a mqment if
you please, in, private',
Seigle somewhat puzzled,: led his visitor, into an' adjoining
ogm,    The mari closed thedoor then fixing  s eyes on te
$    ster  ynui'-
(''Do you -not.now  '
'Indeed I do not.'
,A 41ypt Iknowyou,' the other returned significantly.
'Ahem, that may be, but I set nothing .t.Sange inmy being
' Of course not, but your name is Cab it not
'Yes.'                         _             .'_-
'And three years since ypu resided in the suburbs of the
Well, what if I did?' exclaimed the Jew.ptarting ;at the sing.
lar yet free language of the stranger.
.Oenight anman sought your protection.
'Wha4' ried the terrified Jew.
S'al1Irepeadt it0  asked the other, contemptuous. . ut
Seigle burie  is.face in his hands, and remained silet; And the
SWell, y  daigdt 1t he. should never leave  pur  use
aii; 'but you left -ia&amp;id  am  here,, to riot in younr ill-goten
weah h   Now tell me where those two childrenare?.
'1Ydo not omprehend you,' Seigle replied, his blancie tface
betraying the falsity of his word.
iYou pale and-tremble as 'you:speak the falsehood, eclhed
the other.         '                ?, te             ..
'Who areyou, andwhat dyouwis uw the'rnprpxit
an  tearianage at length to inquitie.
ListehT'a the enipaticejoindet.      o-*To.igt, ,a t ie, I
ill beeie ad wh~n'youhear these aqe yof will diitide.
And the speaker gave three ominous raps on the table. '-shdiaft
frighted Jew started up and involuntarily murmured, 'My God!
'tis his knock !"  After enjoining him to 'remember,' he left
him alone with his own gloomy reflections.
'Tis he, and I'm in his power,' the Jew muttered to himself;

I I I


ti  ,..R M  z',1.

rnd he possesses that feairful secret -which I fondly dreamed was
knpn,to none but myself and wife. Oh! -cursed' gold !-=*6tix
it4 Tabuldescape thishonrid torture and suspense.'
a     antie  wiith ie setsitcecded inbrderer seemed an age, but mid-
night at length arrived, and with the strikig of twelve, he heard
the significant raps, and reluctantly adniitted the stran ert who
said-
'Now toll me qi l   h~Ir=e in the boy' and =irl .whom three
years since you receiv ed of ine ?'
' The boy Iplaced in a respectable family, and the girrllsgti
with   ' :Slgl o 'rep.'                            -
" let ie have both in the morning.'
si,    ill,' a s*we9&amp; h'bded 'ew.
'Tis well. Now give me five hundred dollars and I will keep
y 9tr'edi tfor 'the reei . },'  .             .
Are you serious?'
' Most certainly.  Ffitocon   with this, anai yu ,ha 1 -.'
'.noggh--saynoinore. r     e re    Foy rodssafke daunt
nore    d    th3deid     4. -R        th oney,
un  zh e4     101isi  the ~gt metis n  a ud,
T9-morrow we meet ence ,more. QO tliaf o    lrd
,name.          the Jew  nteo   itu y, o41 th  house   On
tY e ~    e a dt   a o sn u i
it  , tr the lighthe  se  i moment, and in   rai of - e1
yp tin y/T$6$186,onl  itile ri a h  e4_i +
Ifa! ba! ha ! I'l tlwart yowyfet.'
refreO, we OofI tudicflied     etnuing toeceive
hih p  lren tos asonce more, he found the plac     ire det d
daleb S  e iad deasset- rit             n   f       t d0
tjon .noon9 oeoald14- The sad fat estdlike .heavy incubus
o   i    A y9       1$ thp"s-  dt      vngeancebuin
in hin ar.
.           4  '     ,'

CHAPTER III.
TK.alREVEL navar nu--noan -  4          t 6-s=-- -
4.,4
To introduce all the characters {*ho are to;appear as we po
gress with the  Fiema'saStory we "must noa condu&amp;eur
readers'to'a spacious apartment of oneof our mest asionble
hotes.It'is' brightly illum hated  a' very flood Of gaslight,
and we are saluted as weenter by the boisterous leuhtend
several young'men, seated~around. they remnants of a ulptus
feast, and now-regaling;theniselves with sparklingchampagne
The rooms richly furnished,,but we can only,  Mt
splendor of its equipage, etc. '-Soft:lrussels covered the floor-
itenivei nrriors and costly.paintings "garnishedthe walh8-4
speious ehaandelie r.wung down =from: the centre of the richly
figured ceiling, while the profuse, purple and white, satinersngh
at the wd@w , parted: tastefully in the middle;fall in
'heavy folds to the floor.         '     ' '
The delijFiu fragrance ofuthe finest Il avanna' mingled with
the odors of the feast, greet the senses gratefully.
wine, wine,n14iltbavewinei'
Se te j     twh ke  iol n
,A riperngja the  .
And. the juce erops domtlikea 'bloody dew
On the lips  T&amp;;rel-ngear  '
while trees and flowers mock per shwets
And laugh in theirbaccanal nuuth'
B   ng fall horus, wt heartyzst.
dffoid  efton," tho  h lately married, is esteemsd by hi
jovial companions 'A good clever fellow,' Which seems 'a
their maestft~on to cancel hiscruelty in neg eting his youg

*

17

r
'tflE  PIRBMf 'S: BIDE.

__     +                                           _            -                 i                        y


Is

tf~'pIRIC I UIDE.

wife, for the wine cup and midnight revel.
'Come fill up,' said he, cracking another bottle of champagne.
'Let us drink to the gold of old Grimps the miser,' he conclud-
ed in a subdued tone.
The toast was-received with a particular relish; tossed off, and
followed by another and another, until it passed around the- en-
tire festive board.
At Sefton's suggestionthey left the hotel.
Abel Orimpswa none oth than  adbSeigle ""bitsficd his
last removal he had assunid thif Mformer name, and was now
known by nonp .other. .A briefsdescr4pt iea  f hi -;as bejnow
apperapwilluot beout ef place 'b teo  Jwas f 'eeytwo
inchesiufadeight,'while hi ne k was e'  sh rtth athis.hea PI.
ed t- laylfaton his shoulders4 Ui doswpra  of-tHe ofa
gra  Having lstiiswif he  'gWA extre ely ava iciouam
andj miseily, s thatin the neighborhood :where.he esides,- he
4i ke*nent asold 'r     hp#t1eni  e ;  The   ee balls
ich ang labove.hi aootcitengey the outward-impasano th
hisbusines  now  isthatf -0 eyn .'r   Yet it irw  nkcp w,
heowoald  etscruple to receive.gold k iowinghem a   iuve
This ni litthe- ld jew  at at a table on which lay 0veral bags
of gold which he had just counted, and-was plcingd hadatb
a strongeheston .th&amp;inor besides him, when the elogl streek
two.            z       t
'Is it so late,' he muttered, capting his eyes Ethe old dusty
clock. 'I did not uote the time . ssing away  rapidly.' He
placed the moteyf i heohBest 4nd r  abou t'leck it when he
heard a noise.  llearose i  ast a  y  d withuttaying to lock.
the chest, went to the do :aidlisted attent     For a mo-
ment the noise cea ei thedo xene d again.    t appeared as
some one was endeavoring to fotee  1   lek.  Grinpa sei  a
e3J.eaxy3.itple1n9i            *d m       he desaed the
fg~g themnise inewspeda          -. a   -        -
of le muttered n spy.ge.glee  '1stdpaoufn.        .
Be approached the door which led into the yard, but after

listening again a short time, he heard no movement. Springing
a lantern which he held in his hand, he discovered to his utter
horror the lock of the door wrenched off. He thought it strange
that his dog was not on the watch. The next moment he enter-
ed the yard, and found his usually faithful animal fast asleep.
He called to him; but found he was really sound asleep and
would not awake even by shaking. The truth flashed thro' his
mind. The dog had beepdrugged. Poisoned by design to pre-
vent him giving the alairrf.
In-the-greates4 terothp 144pspreentered li houand a.
astonished at:ndng-everything as het had left them, iutheir
proper place
,«rthought he, as he nailed up t1de door.;"Imut hake.
larmed them  erethey o   ent 2 operation:-2ell 'th kthe
fates  Was in time, andI 8hallbe still eigilatihfttr*'
Securing the door as well as  was able, he agairent &amp;hri
cha ber andtas was hishabittried the lid ot'V iindEey chest
Lo ! it opened. For a single momentrhis glaring e h ils
started from their sockets, and rested in. the empty chest. Then
i frenzy of rage and despair, he bitterly exelaimed
1My1 my;go            mjgold isgor:-Isi          n Uh
ed- runad
1 fell heavily to the floor gaspiigin  choking voice, robed
a.  v  m n_                l  i            Xo  .

1
t
r Lt
San.
1
iY4
H
-k
i
a.
Y
a-
d
4- .
fy' t
Y
tit
r7
;3
a
F+

fr -


m tn~s~~.

TIMB PIk:MAN'0 Dr. .

p             '
'in-TY fire      t_ fire  wet  p i  wb.  nd boigtero  vptn
from many a ar~ly thrat ie        uns~g and sari g times
rolled p in beaggylf  gaig  t   k i   heavensin AbaI
tgsege   iu    sheo  pgi $si g etuctionv~er 'the dlitr-
elity.. In stagygevry lie'b   sen jotth fearful alai is
rgpidtoe, and housan4 5e oup xoirseis ts4
The atmosherkking veyhavy ~      e  ~e qrie th~ 1t
oveieF e    Tre  ya p.7         5o^pa'Ss to         real
source of the disaster. flut those companies near il of c arse
wergpromptly gc 4p gry       g~1n4thetgtrd pzttc
early in active service. But las tie iuckhartsv appn gathe
bridge on Queersstreity which~ they must cross to get t'6"lii ie,
they were ' Aailed' with a heavy shower of stones, bricks and
other materials hurled upon them by an unseen foe, who lay in
cowardly ambush, purposely to attack and destroy them._
Of course the peace loving Penn' were 'surprised,' they could;
not have been mord so, had they been set upon by an overwhelm-
ing force of the most savage, skulking Indians in a dense forest.
So sudden and overpowering was the attack that the carriage was
instantly deserted, and every one that had escaped unharmed
fled down the street terrified beyond expression. a
This was just what there hiden assailants wanted, for as they
heard and saw them retreating they sallied forth, seized the rope
of,the carriage and fled with it over the bridge.a

:
(tip
t
N
t,
:)
L
kr
i
y^
.;
'r:
!"
+r
f
A
1
1
}y
t
9
T
"1's
s
,
,.
3
p
S
i
r
k}
ti
.
1'
t
,
1.
kp "
I
i
L
i4
C'
P
'ta
:

AV

vt

The retreating party hac just met a reinforcement ofmem-
bershheaded by  inggold, as they )eatd thehi 'carriage rattle
over t  brid   dragged awa b tir fe.      With awild er-
rifie yell of re ege courage and d speratioi they tied; and
rah after theirassailants swift as the'inUetain gle
Come on, bdys; I knowwho they are, shouted Uinggeld
at the top of his voice, leading the capture. *4I see it all'hat
fire has been only a decoy. It is the -*ork of the blaekteethed
Greek&amp;   Oome on, boys ; wade in   6        in, Bulckart,
and pale them bite the dust--,
'Hey-hey-hoy !-wade in Buc    Darts  wade,' wentup
frow.a hundred throats in a tremend us Indian-like war whoop'
strip g terror to she hearts of their foe mho heard it.
-&amp;slf mile was soon~passed over in such a chase, and the
, .enn Boys' -were on the Richmond Greeks before they were
aware of pursuit; anda.they in turnWere fnt lesssurprided thai
were the Penn;Boys a few minutes;'before  They wee making
for the Delaware frith the evident intention of destroying the
caryiage, and then sinking it in tl riyer. But before they-'had
reachedd the -river's bank,in l  and hi company were on
then like so; lany hyenas let loose:
iey-hey! ugboys and at hem      shouted Dinggold, as his
pa1yv4di ,andbattled each side of the carriage-'roe. -For
a n stant' the burlyIrishmen lookd{up indoubt"and terror,
andstruck several. blows with snort :cihl  whieoli me of then
possessed; b  they were 'promptly returned by wits almost as
hard; Closer andcloser--hotter ,&amp;d li tter grewthe'struiggle.
Some of the Penn Boys were badly ruised, buO'e ora ofthe
Greeks lay prostrate and tramyle4 on.
wade  in XDugk Dart --ade in,' Irang opt Ringgolds voice
far above the strife and struggle of the battle;Withf a boun&amp; he
darted towards the arriage tngueand with a tremendous blow
levelled nbig Irishman whoheld it M-t.to the ground, stutring
him sothat he lay.the e. gprtitty tinsensible.  3ut theliezt
nmer he4rew an uglyo Jokingist l and fi ed'i tiglds
head. He missed his mark41and(iiggolden agedo d.ittepettoi ,
almost insane-drew back and administered him a1iok withtii

a
it
t
ky
Ax
/t
b
4
i


22

THIE FIREMAN S_.RD

Lt

foot which sent him reeling like a. drunken man until slipping,
he stumbled over the bank into the Delaware.
The fire now had gone dowr, and it had become densely dark,
but anon several other pistols in the hands of the Irishmen flash-
ed in the darkness; but they, were forced at last to acatter and
leave the 'machine' iri the hands of its proper anil rightful
owners.
A. loud shout of victory, went up from the company-as they
drove their ememies before them.
They turned their carriage on the river bank and their faced
homeward. Although several shots were fired into them, but
two of their number- were injured.
Nearing the bridge again and passing near the ' boat house'
they were-attacked again, by the same party, who, after retreat
ing fromthe. carriage had made a shorter circuit, and'gained the
boat house before them. Two or three of their number being
left behind with pistols to harrass and detain them, s as' to allow
their assailants time to fortify themselves within the old boat
house.
And thus again were the Penn company subjected to a terri-
ble surprise, ~this time worse yet than the former, 'for they were
assailed not with stones and' brickssimply, but with fire arms
ilso. Auequal number were soon procured on the opposite
sidegndow a bloody struggle raced, spreading,=alarm'and;con-
sternatiou around tie neighborhood, The Irislinen secure with-
in the- old house,; levelled ;tier weapons -through a window or
knot-hole, while the Buck' arts made use of various means by
which   batter down the building, only oceesienally discharging
a pistol as a creek would appear' momentarily at one of the
wm dow; ,.'popn{3the
And then   p,    o '  pop,   wounded def llythrough the
eavys.
la.dder boys, get a laddor and let us meet them hand to
han4'PedIid ngg ld  darts  a ilbout'frantic with rage; his face
ca    dejea th smoke for theyjire now pie  the asouldering
ruins g.the late re. 'AI de boys, 'let us pt an .ind to this
Greek war andtee.th    idoat ian.

E
Y
F
}}h
t
L-
5
1
k
([9
A
t
y
s
k
k
Y+
Xc
P'
P-
6v-

THE FIREMAN'S BRIDE.                 23
'.Fire the shop' shouted some one, 'fire the shop and rout
them alive the murderers.. They would serve us so.'
'Aye that is it-fire the shop-remember Chew's house--burn
them out,' echoed several voices at once.
A few minutes more and the heavens were lighted up again
with hissing flames which soon enveloped the old boat house in a
blaze. Being of wood it caught and burned rapidly, allowing
the poor Greeks but little time to escape. They came rushing
from the windows in the  'etdeafusion and fright, some to
be wounded ith-pistohshots, and others kuffed.end kicked nd
knocked overboard itothe mudd d. ' Murther-murthera'
was hallowed in course and frantic tones from many a frighten-
Greek as he saw tiebildiigburning around him and then saw
the Buck Darts attiil his exit front the fidrhes, perhaps to kill
nor at least o tnim hith'id mark him for life.

x #


aTH  REMAN's BRIDE.

25

CHAPTER V*
TE MISER ANwD HIS Vif --TE       DEMAND--THE JEW'S PER.
PLEXITY--sTRANGER.
ON a dark and rainy night in September, Abel Grimps absorb-
ed inspeculative reflection, sat in his house alone save the com'
pany of his faithful masti' Carlo,' who, as his master had just
been partaking of a hasty repast, looked up into his face as if
begging a morsel to eat. .
'Ah Carlo! poor Carlo!' you are two gluttonous ; your mas-
ter has lost too much motley lately to afford you a sumptuous lv-
ing,' muttered the miser y Jew as if addressing the dog, who,
while the old man spoke arose and approached the side of his
master.
Suddenly the dog pribked his ears and turned towards the
front door, when the three peculiar raps was heard. The miser
started from his revery and muttered half aloud, 'it is he;' He
opened the door and Orson Dudley stepped in saying,
. 'Well Seigle not dead ret, eh?'
A quick tremor passed over the miser as he strangely shudder-
ed at the words. But as quickly collecting hmself, he passed it
off and requested the intlder to open his buteness*.
'What is your wish, sir ? required the Jew with a business
like air.
'i wish money,' was the brief reply.-
' I am Poor ' pleaded Seigle. 'I have been robbed of some
twenty thousanddollars.'
'Ah,' said Dudley car essy, 'If then you have such a sum
far burglars. you certainl have some for me. Countme out one
thousand'

*r1

A
R 'FIR MAW6, BR ] ,

*I do not possess such a sum' replied Grimps with a rueful
face.
"Procure it then.
'I cannot.'
'Tis false,' cried Dudley warmly.  'You are deceiving me -
the story of your robbery I believe to be a hoax-let me have
the money or I'll use my power.'
'Call to-morrow,' answered the terrified~Jew, 'and I will pay
you all you demand.'
'.Caleb Seigle, listenn' said Dudley with emotion, ere the ex-
piration of three months from the present, I must have those
children-or by heavens, you shall forfeit your worthless life on
the scoaffld.'
The next day, Dudley called at the office of Grimps'and re-
ceived the desired sum of money, and again admonishing the mur-
derer to be prepared to comply with his request; left 1inmte his
reflections.
The following day, clear and -beautiful, Abel Grimps started
for New-York in search of the girl whom he had sent to his cousin
but whom she had left a short time after.
Well Caleb, what brings you so hasty to our city new?' en-
quired his cousin of him as he entered her presence. 'I came
to see about Radhael,' he replied, 'I wish to obtainx some. clue
to her whereabouts.'
'Why did she leave your root?'
'I scarcely canitell, but she grew quite uncontrollable and self-
willed, and I was unable to do anything with her.
Itahael had also left his cousins, and being unable to obtain
any information in regard to her,he was in despair. A disgrace-
ful death stared him in the face, but seeing no hope heat length
resolved to meet his fate witha firm heart.
He returned to Philadelphia-end was once more sitting in his
solitary room, as the cloak struck eight-it was evening. A low
knock aroused him. tie arose, and admitted a young mans ofa
handsome delicate countenance, his person clad in a suit of dark
apparel quite shabby. He was an entire stranger toGrimps.


THu PIEMAN'S RID.               27

HTHE nPIREMAN'S BRIDE.

He accepted a proffered seat, and for a moment without saying
a single word fixed his eyes on the Jew..
What is your business with me, sir?' Grimps at length made
out, in a polite manner to inquire.
y-business?' echoed the young man,
'Yes-what do you wish In my lie?'
Money;' tasthe brief reply.
'Well what have you to give in exchange?' interrogatedthe
Jewish pawnbroker with  susi
'Information,' was the echoed answer.
The miser shuddered as his mind by this reverted to Dule y
for he suspected this to be another, who, knowing his secret had
cone'}t&amp; eert mneyiiy"andthus -purchase silene.  Another
glace atkteyeuthfnl ta'angersenta thrilkf mW42thrug t he ,
miser's veins, as he fancied a marvellous resemblance of the coun-
tenance before ii with that of Orson Dudley.
'Where is yer.aughf er?' the young' man asked.    {
I never had one, replied Grimnp
erhaba youspeak tritlg  buttell me where is Mies  aehasel
Grimps?'
' In de cityof Ne, York, I believe.'
SYouare twrong,a reped the stranger. 'She is not in New-
York.'
'Where is she then?' askied  rimps eagerly:
'$eytM     r reach;'1 ut leian to sohit aid from you; she
isinwant.
' Ah. returned the Je' easilyy. In .at  th  let her
come here, and I will assist her,'
'I wilrbring her,' said thegyoung man,  ouill place tie
means in, my hands.
N8,.6,' ~na     eldte:misewith smile of triumph, 'let her
come here het elfdiffShe wishes assistance'
°'Perdition sei eyourar awAheart,' e claimed the young man
pinging to his feetandV fing a fierce glance upon the stolid
ew 'iWill   T give me money, or mtIfarce you?'
'lah, have a care o ng fuan  Don't threaten me.
The 9ther paused amduien, 4hen said
'Soeirefuse to give you daug htet  assistant, he a this
time requires
'Mtheusareceive i at a    y hands,' replied Griw}s.
'Your willinever seeher,' contrmied the stranger stepping to
4  A4der, 'but beware of hervengeance.
1Stay,' exclaimed the ald man.  'Tell me where she resides.'

'No sir, I cannot do that.
'But I must know,' echoed Grimps.  I'll give you the sum
you require, if you will bring her here.'
'Give me onehundred dollar = and youtshallsee her ianless
thai fifteen minutes '
Will you swear it?'
I will pledge-you my word--my honor for it. Place the sum
on that- table; and Iwillshow youyour.daughterRachael' o
He didgot and then stranger castng  hisshabby suits  yria
Blakely stood before the astoishedJew.
Have kept my promise' said she gterngup theanoney=
Ra     kehael cried the delighted old-mn, ' why kave you deeiv-'
e methis'
To obtain money.'
Whydify'oleavyourliome       :
B axuse you had become disagreeable, and I shed toe yK
own distress.
"Ah yo'are far too unyielding Rachael,' heremarkdia
tone of gentle reproof.
My name is not Raohael, sir,' she replied.
'Whygirl, arefyou mad ?'
No, Caleb Seigle.: O no, I am perfectly sane.'
I Hah did I not forbdi you useing that ame since we left Ken
ein$to ,'1he exclaimed passionately.
'You did, but sir, I care very little whether you like the name
or not. I know more probably:than:what you may suppose._
a further know that my name ia not Rachael Seigle '
Ha, Mhatis it then ?
h '   o natterr, was the reply
'utwhat is that which youhavejust hnted at r
£   secret whieh shall: retainr until its revelation will :rus&amp;
and expose you. But Irkust g-I will visit you again.':
' Where do you reside?'
In-Beael-street, No. _-  / she answered, and the next moment
he was alone.

27

2w6


TIN PR I'&amp;  B RIDI.

CHAPTJiRi YVL
TUE MISER's WARD-)RIA-ER D        EUT-TRIVPI3--.L vY--5-
DUOTION   DESERTION-MADNESS- REVENGE-THE        GRAV3
YARD.
MYarh BLAKELY the miser's ward has grown u      woman"
hood,, lovely and:beautifil. Tall, and even majestic n  guer
she seemed to partake of all the stateliness and Spanish beauty:
of her mother,'and yet, her large flashing black eyes, long jet
glossy insl to and a nose partaking somewhat of the acquihne,
reminded the beholder as she passed, of the ardent voluptery of
the 'Beautiful Jewess.'
While yet quite young, she found her way tothec dress circle
of the theatre, and being possessed of a warm poetic nature and
love of the beautiful in the tragic art, she soon acquired an aU
absorbingstaste for the drama. And this her. ruling tempera-
ment or passion, found expression in her very carriage, noton ly
at home but more especially on tie street. Her walk, inspirited
by frequent stage exhibitions was most graceful, stately and ma-
jestic. Her carriage:on the promenade was equal in ease and
graceto that of the most polished and accomplished Queen. At
home, in her room, she'frequently gave speech to her poetic soul
in the dramatic la ag eof Shakspeare, or some other favorite
author whom she closelyy studied.
Myria, though but the;humble milliner girl,: possessed alaurge
circle of admirers for her spirited disposition and beauty. And
though lovely, yet she was not. perfection. She was proud;and
had already experienced the first pangs of mortaljealousy . the
dashing Chesnut-street hatter, Chaeles-Orsay; orthe 'count' as
he was jovially called, had received his ' travelling card' from
her, and she had sunk down upon the sofa where hieleft her at'
their last interview, sweeping in the bitterest disappointment.
But his-place in her regard was soon filled by one whom she
early learned to love with greater ardor and trust. Milford Sef-
ton M. D., a professional, seemedamore congenial in his atten-
tions to her pride of life and love of position. The endearing
prospe9t of becoming the wife of a piysieian, and one two of
Milford Sefton's position in the profession, fed her soul with a
peculiar, overpowering charm.
But her eager progress in love, incidents of trial, and cross
purposes, we cannot recount here.  on
After  a season of specious promises of fidelity and ardent vows

THE FIREMAN'S BRIDE.
of love and honor, she was deceived and basely deserted by him.
For this, after a shott period of agony, remorse and shame, she,
in her chamber alone, with none to witness or hear it save Jehovah,
made a solemn vow of direst revenge.
She purchased a handsome knife, and ever after bore it about
her concealed.
Several times she encountered him in company, but was foiled
in her design upon her betrayer. We have already hinted at
her natural taste and qualifications foi-the drama. She was gifted
indeed with mind, feature and form, power of declaration and a
voice to appear on the public stage .with the most splendid effect.
And it was about this period; in her life, that, nerved by own,
proud spirit and the advice of friends, she concluded to test her
abilities in the tragic muse. Need we say her choice was a happy
one. With a keen sense of her late wrongs, backed up with the
most sacred obligation of revenge, her acting was spirited and
earnest, her reading eloquent and vivid, while her speaking eyes
and animated features flashed, the magnetic fires as the only spirit
of the part she had chosen burned in her soul.
She was,'successful, triumphant, and-the dome of -the theatre
echoed and re-echoed with applause as flowers and numberless
boquetts greeted her brilliant and happy debut.
'BeautifuI--splendid:' The speaker was Clarence Clinton the
machanic author.
'She's a trump, an no mistake-' said Ringgold.
' Such rich flowing-hair, and those eyes, and her bust so di-
vinely moulded. It would make an angel sin,' said Franks.
'How full of life and power her swelling bosom seems, and her
voice-how musical and clear-such control in one so youn.
and unpracticed.  She speaks most charmingly,' continue
Clinton.
'She's a splendid girl. What a shame it it she's been so mis-
fortunate. ()that d-d doctor, if I could only get hands on him
I'de choke and twist him 'til he couldn't move, the villian, it's a
sin, it is to wrong such a girl,' said old Job Clawson, wiping his
tear moistened eye.
"She's a regular brick. There's none can take her down,'
joined:Ringgold in his own blunt manner. 'Old Sefton,' he con-
tinued, ' by the broad stripes and bright stars of the American
flag, if I ever spring him 'luff, he'll think all h-ll's let loose
about his ears. I tell ye Clawson, I believe Myria will be reveng-
ed yet.'
Myria- knew nothing of this sympathy expressed so bluntly
in her behalf by her friends of the William Penn Hose company,

rI

;
t
z #.


30               'Ta  FIREMAN'S- BRIDE.
but she was now making sure and rapid strides up the hill of dra-
matic fame, and'by herstirring eloquence wearing laurel wreaths
as aAiadem of merit upon her snowy  brew, At length she ap-
pearddin'the last act of the st irriiig tragedy.' A  long white
robe encircled her figure ; her face, though flushed; with passion.
seemed like marble:nflxed so firmlyiher purpose. of revenge,
her'.hair- long tig tangled, hung down=over, her shoulders and
breast in wild di ctder hile her glaing eyes dilated and shone
with a brilliancy fearful to see. In'her hand-she clutched alarge
knife, which'tlitered in the light like burnished silver. It was
a scene in the lays The pieie concluded, the dark curtain roll-
ed slowly dlown, nd as it reached the floor, Myria was loudly
called for, the greatest confusion prevailed for several minutes,
in the midst of whichand without changing her attire Myria dart-
ed froin the plaoe, and fled wildly, frantically for home. .A.ll
reason seemed.to' have left her, she was mad, and she sped
through the streets at mid night swift as 'the mountain courser,
waving and flourishing the fearful knife and - yelling in frantic
tones, 'Revenge, revenge.  Milford, where art thou?  Villian,
come forth and let blood justify thy wrongs.  Come-come thou
villian, let thy victim drink thy blood.'
On she sped, and on 'til she passed the lower boundries of
Kensington, and crossed Cohocksink creek, when an alarm of
fire was suddenly rung by a number of the up town bells, and-soon
the shrill and boisterous cry of 'Fire--fire,' was added to My-
ria's wild cry of revenge, and anon the tread of many feet, rat-
tling of wheels, blowing of horns, rolling of the Hose, rushing on
of the water, men, women and children jostling against each
other, and the constant ringing of bells, made up a scene which
for confusion and noise we cannot begin to describe.
Myriad dashed on and on past her home, still crying.loudly for
revengee.' She fled away from the gathering tumult about the
fire with apparent fright, swift as her feet would carry her. On
she fled out-Beach street to Hanover, out Hanover to the grav'
ard.  The gate was left open, she passed rapidly in.  She es-
a dark figure far across the place of graves.  She was fright-
ful now tbbhold... Her stage dress thrown in confusion, her'
hair dishevelled and floating about her shoulders in wildest disorder.
She dashed over the graves towards the dark object before her,
and again rang outon-the midnight silence fearfully, the language
of her pursuit.
Milford, where art thou-thou villain come forth--confront.
the victim of thy perdy--come, blood for blood, base one, re-
venge, revenge is sweet.' She flourished her dread knife abov-

THE FIREMAN'S BRIDE.                81
her head, and dashed over the graves direct for Sefton.
He heard her voice, and turning quick saw her coming. For an
instant he was parallyzedl with fear, he seemed like a statue of
black marble, while she all life appeared in her white robes, as
if just arisen from the dead armed with the power of Hadees, to
revenge her own and the wrongs of. those whose graves he was
now rifling.
He saw, even in the darkness the subtle fire of her eyes, and
as with a maniac yell she dashed upon him, he seized a spade and
threw it up i defence. It saved him, for with the blow aimed
at his breast her knife struck the flat side of the spade and broke.
in the middle. With the dead snap of the steel blade, a single
faint spark of reason seemed to impress the accident upon her,
and she fell heavily against him; the force with which she struck
carrying them to the ground. She struggled for his throat but
securing one of her wrists in his grasp he managed to hold her
until he gained his feet, but he had to drag her with him.
My God, Myria, what mean you by this ?' he stammered for
he was indeed frightened.
' Revenge,' she fairly screamed ; 'revenge for lost honor--re..
venge for your base falseness--revenge for your deceit,' and she
again attempted to sink her fingers into his throat. She was
frantic now--and again bore him to the earth by main strength,
and tossed him about like a toy in the grasp of a giant. It was
a fearful struggle or the mastery. Sefton groaning with very
fear, and Myria clothed with the desperate strength of madness
foaming at the mouth and slashing her dishevelled hair across his
wounded face, striving to bite and besmear him with foam. The
struggle though severe, was not long, for with a terrific sudden
yell of triumph, as if a new thought struck her, she tossed him
over a grave, but he still clung to her and they both rolled and
fell to the bottom of an unclosed grave together. Sefton's ac-
complice in robbing the dead, had just managed-to raise himself
from the grave, and fled from the place in alarm.
And now the mad actress and 'the M. D., struggled in a very
narrow space, a limited compass.
As they fell on the-coffin, it crushed beneath their weight, and
the dead, as if started suddenly into new life rose up betwixt
them, shaking his death clammy locks in Myria's face, antnini:
ing his-hair with hers. To Sefton; who was acquainted with all
temysteries, of' the dissecting room, this was nothing; ,but- to
Myria even though a maniacs ,  wasan        n
gle, and she sank with a subdued cry of despair beneath the power
of her .betrayer and the dead.


82                TIlE FIREMAN'S BRIDE.
Ana now Sefton began to look about for- some way of egress
from the damp grave. He did not fancy being buried thus alive,
and seeing no way by which to raise himself from the place, he
commenced calling loudly for help. Wgs he heard ? Not by the
sexton, for he was sound asleep in his cabin. But a small com-
pany of the Buck Darts passing near there from the fire heard
him, and as soon as he caught the sound, Ringgold ever ready
foradventure, dashed into the grave yard followed at a short dis-
tance by his comrades, who didn't half like the gloomy place.
Led by the sound of Sefton's voice, Ringgold soon gained the
open grave and looking down, he exclaimed, 'Ye Gods, boys,
we've got em now, couple of them ' Ressurrectionists--ha, ha-
they're in a putty fix. Ha, ha, caught at last-come here to rob
the dead did ye, and he pulled ye in, ha, ha. Serves ye right
ye old body snatcher.' Ringgold stooped down and attempted
to look through the darkness into the grave. He put down his
hand and called on the one below to- take it and he would help
him out. But he soon found he could not reach him in that way.
' Hold on,' said he getting up on his feet again, "till I get
something to put down to ye.' He turned to go towards the
tool house in one corner of the grave yard as his feet caught in
something. ' Halloo, what's this ?' said he as he stooped down
and found it to be a rope several yards in length. 'Ah, this'll
fetch ye up, or I'm not Jack Ringgold. Here old fellow-Gods
boys, may be its the old sexton met with an accident-got tight,
or something of the sort and got down there and couldn't find
his way out. IIalloo,.there, old boy, take hold of this and we'll
haul you out of that hole. Take a good hold now and hold on,
like-halloo, slippery ,about here, like to fell in myself. Boys
get behind me and pull on the rope-halloo there, ye got a good
hold?'                             ..      ,.
'Yes-for God's sake get me out of this, and-' said a smooth-
ered voice below.
'Now boys pull. A long pull, a strong pull and a pull alto.
gether you know. Now then, out he, comes. By Jove stranger
who are ye anyhow ?' laid Ringgold as Sefton, almost exhausted,
gained the top of the grave and leaping out, fell-headlong over
another. Just at this moment, Myria havng somewhat recover-
ed, uttered such an unearthly scream that all, even the daring
Ringgold, started to their feet and .were leaving in haste. Sef-
ton taking advantage of this   y hastily gathered himself up and
fled from the grave yrd with the celerity of thought.
Ringgold reooveriig from the terrible shock which Myria's
awful scream gave him, exclaimed,'

TR  JREMAN'S BRIDE.                 38
- My 'God, boys, there's a gal in that hole yet. I tell ye there's
some mystery here, for what's a living woman doing in a grave.
Gods her scream made me think of the 'screeching woman' we
used to hear so much talk about. It's round this rae yan t
she used to walk and give them awful screams which frightened
people so-'
'Come on Ringgold let's leave here,' said Yeager Ford.
'May be its her-who knows?' said Franks, as he trembled
and turned with Ford to leave.
' Ha, ha, may-be it's her, why ye fools she's dead long a.go
afraid of a dead woman Hold ye cowards, and come and help
the'living. That woman screamed, there's life in her yet, and
there's something wrong here-where's the feller'? By Jove he's
gone. Come on now help get this swomartut. W-h-e-w !-there
she goes again, what a-voice though; enough to raise the dead
out of their graves,' echoed Ring old with surprise.
'I tell ye Jack, I believe it's that screeching woman got about
again. Let her be or she'll pull ye in the grave with her-come
away afore she's out after us,' said Franks trembling like an
aspen.
Several of the company stood with Franks' and Ford at a dis-
tance, but as Ringgold after upbraiding their cowardice again
drew nearer the edge of the grave and called to the one below,
they plucked up courage and gathered around.
' OGod ! men help me out of this place. I'm a living woman
and there's a corpse down here with me---for God's sake get me
out of here.'
.' Who are you, and how did you come where you are9' ques-
tioned Ringgold boldly.
'Oh assist me from this horrible place and I will tell you.'
' Come on boys, where's the rope ? Let's get the woman out
anyhow.'
' Jack, we'll be in an ugly scrape here yet,' said Franks as he
reached Ringgold the rope.
'Fool, come help her out from the dead; she's a living woman.
It won't do to let her' die here.'
Myria having quite recovered, seized the rope as it ap-
proached her with the grip of the drowning. She held on ten-
aeiously and was soon again on terra firma. As she appeared
at the top of the grave she looked even :more frightful than
before. Her white torn robe wiled with the yellowloam of the
grave, her hair all matted and blowing around her!head in knot-
ed masses, her face ghastly and pale as the lilly. At sight of
her, all save Ringgold, fled fromu theplace in frenzied fright, and


THE FIREMAN'S BRIDEs
l .e aih the nad atessrandin the place of graves
he wa mt loo  ani  a ling position truly.  The bloodin
the vnst gloof    v    ak igold, as he waited moment
the  eins * ~"foher; flowed 410*and, cold enbrv  Rgo,:ds _
for ;an explanation from  her,h ow ad  h  a part to athereo
Th  rud actress as sane now, andhdaprtoatheeo
Theproud acognsto  She had heard their conversati  but
preserve her ecg i   'ndhow   erce vd
the agrchi     oa, n      rwprevdthat he did :trot re-
th   e   her yet  She suddenly lapped hehands on his holder
cogne heryeta oS  'ble shriek, which sent poor Ringgold re
and uttered a most ternable turned ud ;edfrom the  ;place
oflfthe ground , and she turnedaa ad-ledfIathep e .
in t     d   n   d a   time really frightenedalmostinsensil
eagold lay some rafalling at length revived him ;- he arose
bt a heavy hower o r eewildered  He hhrried frowithe grae
to 'his feet notf        hs 'oI itwas --ear mo ning-
yard and when he rearlachis' home it
CHAPTER VII
PPARATIOg---ORPUAN's  IGHT-FATL
EWRIS   nNNT         ANE      WILL-0CONFESION---
WUO1AER AND   I5TERMNUIA
th  iser was hitting in his room as usual, alone,
anBeeL GR   e in cheming for the possession of go
deeplyabsorb      and whether his speculation and miserly
wasell emghmla  der, we cannot, or at least wil not Say.
scheme embrace m r  ,for the present accumulation of we ath,
hi w  seems from lthut his wifl through the refreshed- vista of
his wandered free dt'   merdr'at Kensingtonand whilehe
sato th o the 've mstching time of ight,' he recognized in his
sat thus at-the 'vety w caring for redress. le heard the last
gro the  victim as o  that fat. night he drove the stee
goan  ohiseat  ite n t comletely in his power nd vengeanc
his heart. He no e    and iy; a hudderinfg horror 'eied
isbod became !clamh  e an agoy  the threat signal raps,
him, in the midstof hdoorwhich=ed a openranree rem raps
her lanced towards athe ad ruedaiewhpten,' as f usbeheldmth
tal' g I~e ; an  ghaitlY; shroud  4i'~ eaifnt frm th
tall, hislen aong hair dishevelled and 'in straggling  amp
toibis hlogngdk io    his bared shoulders, his eyes glas
aninete mgd      etht of livid fire, whilein his let
ad set, seared the dethlY    idfresh and moist wi
bord   hih hape etr paced his right hind as he salowly and
tr          ha horr se a                1
stad~tily  saro te

THE : FIREMAN'S BRIDE.              35
whose countenance grew more ashy pale and marbled than the
ghostly spirit of his victim now before him.
Shivering, the old man arose to his feet and stared-pt the mid-
night, intruder,_but could not speak. Tis countenance changed
colorabecme pale and paler, whiter. and whiter,' Hisimbs grew
weak, andhis knees smote together, and there, while he tremblpd
and qgaked like.a second Belteshazzer largd rops ofcoldwwater
stood out upon;his foreae d,and rolled down;is dis torted d
rigid face  th soul-chilling efig itha 4ege  4gra  he
gasped, 'Great God-'tis his a irit and sank dqwg :pogi )his
knes; andbuied his faceim l s                :YLndt
hea spotre approaehedand  ldlydoued hitsn te aoWer.
The shveringde  trambleod pqinf ,3 whie   ppe te i   o-
letmui sepulebral soices contmnan4., h
'Caleb8eigle; look upu hespiit of your victim, obey did
restore the wronged orphan'a rights.'
Tha righted xImiser tregbm  d  tatilhis teeth aettere41t!is
mouth,.and'the spectre's touchon, his shoulder grew colder nd
harder, as he continued,
Listen obey I If yourefuse this night you die.
T[ miser shudderedin silence
' Remember,' theSpeetre repeated t                  ll
be re uitredof kthee,-you die.6
The almost unconscious 'Jew fell 'ack rigid tothfoor.,
'Caleb. eiglec en.tinued the spectre, thy dy are numbered
and few, therefore delay.not."
It ceased speaking..Arshattering and ter ible wi d shookthe
miser's=old tenement,. although jt wasbut a Madle in thehirl-
poo' The,. indows:rattled-the door, creaking upon its hinges,
flew open, and again closed, and all;was silent -as the grave4 the
spirit had departed.
The subdued old miser,; after lying in a kind of trance fo- a
couple of hours, once, more showed signs of life. Lt'waanow
the still and solemn' io; our wo  o'16c 4 ;a  midnigb  fe
raised himself half up, and still filled with fear, glanced ioad
4he room almost motionless. Theseold perspiration; started by
'fright, had chilled upon. his  bqdy, and created upon^himan1-
most ungovernable shivering. At length, as his teeth.cese . to
chatter, he-reflected,
'What has.happened? ?I have had' a fearful.dreaw--atd yet
it was not a dream, for  saamim-he ,ame to me.-. 'h,-l have
indeed lived a wicked life..A dmurderer-! God of rgtael.forgive
me. _So annyyears. since, and .yet the horrid phantom haunts
\and follows mne still. The Voice of bloOd I could I but seap iti'

I


38                 Tf IREMA 1f'S aDLE'
The remainder of the morning was passed by the relenting and
troubled Jew in repentance and ;prayer. At the conclusion of
which and in obedienceto the midnight warning, he resolved to
make his will in order to make restitution to those whom he at
length acknowledged he had wronged.: At flest he thought of
having it drawn up by an attorney. But on second thought,
notwithstanding -hislate repentance ; he  onchled to save the
expence a lawyer would exact, and write it out himself.
Procuring pen ink and parchment hesat down toit, read it off
to himself as follows,
'The last will and t± talent of CalebSeigle. Anno Domens
185-.. In the name of;the God of Abrahaum Isaad and Jacob,
Ainen.--I, Caleb Seigle- give and bequeath in this my last will
and testament, to MyngBlakely, the unm of five thousand dollars
in cash, and one three itory brick house, and the lot situate upon
Sixth-street, No. --.-, also one three story brick houseNo.----
Oallowhill street. 4 give and bequeath to Charles lakely, five
thousand dollars in=money, and the three story brick houses in
Race.street, N6's.-.----and---...-. I give and bequeath to my
cousin Rebecca Speigle the sum of ten thousand dollars, and th e
two story brick house in Seventh-street, No. --, being the one
in which I now live. Amuong my. possessions there is a small seal-
ed packet containingvaluables ; it, and its contents I bequeath to
Charles Blakely, brother of Myria-'
This closed the brief yet compr e~ ensin~i~ and last testament
of Caleb Seigle, alias Abel Grimps. As he pondered over it he
mused to himself thus, as aheavy sigh escaped him,
'tThere, that duty is discharged, and its burden removed from
my soul. Accursed gold---how iteats ito one' peace, and yet
what ajoy its freerestoration gives. So many, many. years ac-
cumulating this, and now to part with it so suddenly. 'Tis not
without a pang-yet let it go-the God of Abraham forgive rme.
He raised his eyes above as in prayer, and folding up the parch-
went carefully deposited it with the packet into his 'iron chest,'
and locked it there.
Several days have passed, and quite a change has come over
the repentant Miser, he now appears neatly attired in a suit of
black, his grey locks combed out and his face smoothly shaved
and clean, he seems happy ; Carlo, his faithful old mastiff lies at
his feet, while the converted Jew is lost in a pleasant revery.
'Now em I hppy,'seems to arise fromhis soul spontaneously.
phis crushing weight of guilt:beneath whicthI have labored .so
long, is at last removed. 0 bless the God ofhJacob, wih him there
is mercy; and plenteous redemption.- Oh whathave I not suffered,

TUS PIRflMAN'$ BRIDE.         .-     37
what dreamy restless nights of terror have I passed. But God
is good, and righteous and just in all his ways.' The clock struck
ten, and the sound had scarcely died aw whehe
same mysterious racing               way    en   heard the
He could scarce  suppress a rising shudder ;as he thoeht of
the terror it once caused hinbutteg
' That sound terrifies me no longer now,' he whispered hoarsely.
I can now confront him with aheart at ease-.and conscience c-
posed.'                            esa      osinecm
He opened the door, and Orson Dudley entered.
'Well Seigle,' said he, 'you see I keep my promise.
'Yes sir, I see you do, and I amhappy to meet you thus
again-'
'Ah !' responded the other as he :aught at a glance the ex
pression of placid calmness in the old man's face.
'Does it surprise you, Orson Blakely?' the Jew asked in'a
pleasant manner.
'Orson Blakely' ejaculated the other changing color. ' What
mean you sir by that?  My name is.Orson Dudley.'
'Well it may be so--yet 1 am almost persuaded that youpos.
sess two names.p
'How so?'
'Don't mind it at present. But open your business with me,
for I am now quite prepared for whatever you request.
'Then.where are the children ?' asked Dudley with a quiver-
ing lip.
'In the city,' replied the Jew.
'Now is this true, or is it a subterfuge invented to escape my
vengeance?' demanded Dudley.
'It is the truth, for I expect them here with me this very night,
and if you will remain you may once more embrace your children.'
'My children, how mean you?' cried Dudley.
'What is your name ?'
'Orson Dudley.'
'But you still deceive me,' replied the old man.
'Deo I?'
'Yes sir, for I have every reason to believe that you are the
identical person whom sixteen years ago, I attempted to-.'
' llah-you know me then. How have you contrived to   ain
this knowledge-7-for Blakely is my name.'
While Seigle is engaged in rendering the desired information,
we must hasten to give a scone occuring at the same moment in
another part of the city.
Myria Blakely sat in her home on Beach street. She was


THE PIREXAI'S BRIDE.              89

88                 THE, FInzugS BRIDE-
waiting with impatient :expectation for one with whom she had
already passed several happy interviews.
harles Morgan was scarce two years her junior, handsogne
and witty. He first snet MyrIa in public at a Fireman's ball,
given by the Wiliam   Penn Hose Company; was introduced,
aneed several sets with her, and escorted her home.
'Ohshow my heart, throbs as the hour approaches,' she ir-
inured gently to hersel; glancinat the clock.  ' Why is it that
IVrealize suckr a'strange interest in him?  From the hour I first
saw his noble and lovely face, I have loved him. And once --how
strange, I immaginedL him my long lost brother--but , this can-
nt be-'
Aring at the door bell annonced his arrival. She quickly
arose and admitted him. As he entered, a succession of blushes
mounted her cheeks, and as he placed his hand.in hers', he gaily
said,;
'Good evening MIyria. I am glad to see you looking so well.'
'0 Charles, how glad I am you've come. But you must cease
your constant flattery of my looks, or I know not what I shall
do with you.'
I almost said return the compliment, but in this case, that
would be unfair, more indeed than I could bear.'
' Ahem, why keep on Charley and you'll soon be a poet. that
wil do, you may dpen on it. -But, by the way, is your rea
name Charles Morg  .'
'Ha; ha, why what in the world are you driving at now?
' Never mind, but answer me if you.please ?'
' That is a singular question. Well I have never knownany
other.'
'Do your parents reside in the city?'
'W6l welll Myria, what nean you, at any'rate, by this date-
chisigh'
His countenance fell, and a sudden twitch passed o-ve bi row
as he answered,
'Alas! I have never known my parents.'
'Indeed,' exclaimed Myria. surprised ; 'have you sisters or
brothers?'
"Xad: a sister, a sweet little:girl-,hen last4 saw her ; but we
were separated by our ;dzardianwhen quite' young, and I have
never looked upon her since.'
"Tis hard--but how long have you known Milford Sefton'
The physician ?
TYes.'

'$ome four years.'
9 But this does not explain what I wish-have *e ever met be-
fore? I mean ere we met in this .ity'
'Net to my' reclleetid. 'These questions are strange, and
yet when I first saw you Myria, it seemed as though we had :met
before.'
He now turned and gazed upon her features; as ie had never
looked before, and seemed to drink their very impress upon his
soul.
'Explain this mystery,', he exclaimed in embarassment. Both
starting to their feet, their glinces met, and their features side
and side were reflected to each other in the large Spanish mir-
ror which stood before them, stretching from the ceiling to the
floor.
' 0 my sister !' he exclaimed with affection and unspeakable
emotion.
eOh Charles, is it possible. Can it be thou art indeed my long
lost brother-Charles=--'
For several minutes the sudden discovery held them in each
others embrace speechless.
Myria wept with unspeakable joy, satisfied now fully that
Charles Morgan was indeed her long absent brother.
After the lapse of several minutes and Myria had become caber,
she queried of her brother,
But our old guardian, Caleb Seigle, do you ever see  hi
Charles?'
'The old Jew miser ?-Call him not guardian Myria. See him
-no, I never do; though latterly I have heard of him some.
Why sister do you ask, think he yet feels an interest in uS ,I'
'He wished us to see him at his house to-night. He said he
would introduce us to our father.'
' Father ! Did you ever see father, Myria
'Yes, but I can scarcely recollect him it.has been so long.'
' 0 I should be happy to seem. The very name soindu so
dear to me.'
'Shall we visit the Jew?'
' Myira, my sister, I despise the old:miser as much as I fear
him. Think you he does not mean to entrap us for some vile
purpose ?
' 0 Charles, the thoughtmakes me shudder. I did not think
of that before
'Iwould not trust him. Though the fact is Myria, I believe
he knows more of our parents, than would be safe for him to i-


mu    .. j0 ~it~

f~u ~ ':ff~~

part to usn. I have often -wondered how he -overoat8fl to. have'
charges of us whil Pw&amp; wore yet oyoui g. And. it i~i n.u
miuings, it is shrouded  in nystrIthog ,O a  re  uF ry.4e '
..Let'usde*'er: the y 44 f the prasent,for ;When ..4o go I1 wish
to be prepared for any emergency; not only for set! defrnce, but
to protect my sister .lc 'o.' _.

TEj     t -D ART S RD ,79U --TR OLD MN4   rP-
_--HAUNTED 'HOUSEr-BU RID b TRKSR -WP bOW fl Aafi
THiE acein which the adherentsi bf thePen dose ooh an
e.p t medt, pgs th ir leisure time awaywsnot;wa   y=  is
too often the fact with fy° other Firec'okmpa xues ie oIn ' ie,
a tavernlor low gvo  er%  It w_ a             .,..orlz r sttxi.e4f
Eby (h ; old .   Though %uite young Yet, h e evethaan eyeto
the. ac~comod ation of his' ctstoners, ind cded arrangements for
the comfort a ee d:hil, n~.*isettiblshxment was iiot
entirety monopolized by the  di pla ° of =the1usious.'iweed l
vnae u.sha e  f , ma ufactiwe, b .t in th  rear off ,is j ' U il
's ho p ,'ead  a spaciousro m  fttod Up I Ytt h every rep"i  i t for
a pleasant 'lounge'.. , And here his friends and fellow nebers
of.,the Penn' could meet. ithout i let ,tion, and'  d t itog
the k' deli idus a~a'nn , r  adding, bearing o6f an nte tain g well
tOKldfrn4 or 'hlp shxg a i 0,ywbcile -1easantl , .eve  profitably,
pass ay maniy a well spend t h ui.   :
There was at ~least trenty  a~bre jpreserit who~had boon
~ h~ca~jedtor toxre seiin's,*lo called   Oitii  f r a stor r
'~ oanon       l a"frsV0,o~c h              n   .Yes, come Clinton give me now one of your best., Comb: on
old ba,  ryupteusegare. diare;'a    oM gto give - s a
¢&amp;          r . i odd stie the    V, bwy I;" uld roi out
ax eastload wile yo rita di ei e     F
y' -4oyw J ck don't _hurya feller to death,' said the tobacco
tsear de rectin;gly, a he huffed into the room  srh  ct
ha street with that peculiar care and springing in hi o ixnnis
y1 hi trie doh one c ns autlyof the thought Of t~# dtRitLIA1) U

ofgsi-. ,a ccese 'ckelen walking upon wires  The hary
Meauso of this pus8-  -,we Oneed, sWot say, whe it U. rginiet
fromn,, but Yeager; Ford wahe ostant -source _of nio little iti_
iieit tothe-.euit hoye
' Boys here's (he aegar  e a ns-  now Oarey'the"so   ae
'W ell boy, . would uuch rather lx   -   ry  ar-t    d
tw.-nigh,'said Clintonm             arr   f1
I'No apologies now--o poking -o .'
-well if I must-Al   ,ux     'e,&amp;t~n end of i-,:.'  .;
-That's to, Ularey Ulinton,' said i goid .znhatical.
~ou'i -eall =heard -of "haunted= houses -- they  1  t  r-" O'W
numerous - nOW though, asthey, wed:        == o.te ofm,- *atxp  l :ai l=i  ei
bailey rw                     ,1 (m        7 atruetid aouf"; itite
Its within the memory of tiany jyet living in Kera ng4n,
that near Where Cokocksiak cemeek is :now oead~y rui dry ,n -,-4i
~ltsgh'-b ied up, just ixho re, Oxford street, there:~ic~ st4  d a
.o nn ,stov- thatched reofihoase. YTet ithiswass~not tUi
-l o e Abut :M3ics. Jeptha IHag  m f ~aker=igi n, 4it gh rt a
Qiiae;xes ,cof ,the M rictest sort, .liv ed lhere feryu ar.~ie
.husband after many,4,rotab:le{returns~t frm8'a he Wa iv, a
coaptain--kissed 4per"a: ffet o .good b 0,aubed  i ver
*ett wed. ,The 1  harned Captai riague- was 1 oft sea =~
.Mer r'weeks,-montoe .idi r:.t rof inging for the.,roturh tof hey
V O MP Aion,T ho".widow;.±l en g t h ;g.avce "u p , ai .ops t o y " 'r r
() aya i J  , hn oatoral oca Co. 3 1bro tgh xmswith hima
quite lorge1eums of .monieyi and gave. them al* ye n1toh i -16
Je th ' _. pitg4 k  n(e i   e ta  as  tr a widow~bri
©eras tuwaxrd-coofort ge    x ~ay1:irutstsnoe~n the
posse on of ever 4tkxousixd dO lkr ;z and a snug little home
her ewm. At a ced tothe huse.-    :r l#     r, dffever
teswikh s a = had mo  ,-  l~y a cp   eIui       s
$i s of ~ ~oR-8 more. tbau La i gt oh xalY0on r ~o l
and there ,wim ~
lived  th ;firs in soid _''b t.  :          c
in,!'

40

41

=t ,
r .

HAT)


I

42

mm, FI~iML'0 DRA3~.

Jason Booth, the gardeners-had often thought of offering him-
self at the richwidow's.feet,-and begging her to take him upin
theplaeo of her aecctiona ose occupied by his former master.
But the heart of the widow was devoted singly and solely and
forverto her firstdlove  And -her noble -reply to her Scotch
ardener's prayer was; 'None can ever fill the place left vacant
-y lost one atsea. Ris place shallnever be filled by another.'
She was right, for the Scotchman's motives weremercenerp.
It was not her, but her money he loved.  His companionship
thus refused4se decidedly, and thwarted in his object of grasping
her property, hesoon thought of another way to get the widow's
weaW&amp;   Manufacturing1 building, and business enterprise gen-
erallythen,. was not what -it is now. :Things then laid dormant
An.ause4d;  The }value of money, seemed not generaly to be
known, money would not command the interest or bonus it does
mow.: -2widow Hague, as:was the habit with' others before her
dayburied her gold beneath the earth.
The precise spot where she choose: to hide it was, singularly,
beneath s, large fiat stone; at the foot of the path leading .down
to the spring. She succeeded by great caution and care to bury
it therewithout being seen. The Scotebman'seecond plan, by
which tosecure her riches, waS to murder her.
It was atthe Closy of the day in early spring, and there were
none about the.place save the widow and Jason; lie was yet in
the garden about to leaveshis work for tire day, when he espied
her as she cast a white garment about her:shoulders, enter-the
path, and walk slowly down toward:the running: spring. He
stealthly watched her throughM some rose bushes and sweet briar
which intertwined between them until she reached the edge of
the orbe. He saw her stand upou the large fiat stone and then
glance around her. Still he knew not that= she had her money
there  She stooped down and k  darted from the garden-un-
seen. ,Taking a circuitous ;course towards the' place, he came
apon her when her face wasfroio hint and striking her a deadly
blow upon the 'temple, she. fell=into thecreek, and sank to the
bottom withoutseetg her murderer. Booththurried tothe-hose,
and randakingthe eplae, -but nt-ndig hat he6°sotght, fired
thaprenmies ad boq t  idnight =fed the neighborhood..
Yearspassed awea ad Oasper R   ersan entire stronger  in
the dpls took up a let of ground "Aloe side-of thereek herg
it crossed ()(ord-street. hk" egoanhbei g m hy he built tl*
fret storyofhist od;rduse tet lwd alobet thisof wood- It
i a frame house painted ye'l1+.
After finishing the house, and laying off his yard which was-

I"

T[flFRBMA&amp;'8 DRIBE.

483

qulte large; the spring, which now was on the inside of hisline,
lhad becomesnearly Alled -up with rubbish-bat he cleaed= it eOt,
and inel siagtit, planted a pumpin it 'for domestic use.4 But the
water which before was unexcelled, now eame up tinged with
m nyolors, and rancid as Well asobnoxious to the tateX,
, M1Rogerawas a master drayman,. and Ooeasionally was de-
tinedFlte'from=home.'  't always when he cae huaeabout
raiduigt did his ho ses prickvp their etrse start and csh off
f om'hespring as they entered:the gate; end the faithfuhouse
dogf haired in the yard, no;ld starn'out ofp hikennland i gsa
ing steadily at the moon as it stood over the well, moan undhawl
as if in pain;while an indestibabe opgueseiensessad mn tal
agitation would seize Rogers, that he iouldscar elyputthiehers
ay poperly. It was seae rumorediaoutthat rthe plae was
haulnted. Within the house, the doors would aftbr right br d y
open-end'shut' aiparehtly of the hselves,r in factwithout"the
aid of human agency; andkthe leaves of=heavy lhoenytables
up' stairs, would often rise rand them fall back agsinWithrferce
sufficient to make the building treble n)o s Mrs gerhani .
saomed see slothes4fresh from"the l uisdry, o  a  rh itadthe
second floor, sometime in the night seatupu y eldest si terfe
them, to have themironed. My sist1!rian sp t irs hastlyith
:ut a lamp, and as she leaned fo ward'to-take upthe 61=these
m't=the -cold spirit gaze of Mrs:' lague,'wha aa 'sitting upon
them ist the chair, attired precisely as she s  d afgh 'ofhea
death, aR :in  hite. Paralyzed Withrrfro, Sarah  led{ from
her, and fell tothe base of thestairs' almost 'insensible-.After
- shrecovered somewhat;'father t ok' l msipan4 wnt' p but
MW nothingin ulhe brought the elbhe Vde*e'Withutbmih
they felt warm yet.
Not long subsequent to this, mother was standing late one
night at the door, awaiting father'-return home; when she saw
a small white figure start up. a few paces from where she stood.
As it approached her, she t gh t t*s a fung limb, but it
was not a lamb. It approached the spring at a' slow and even
p}iandtlihend    harpi-ed  ost mjteerioeuly. eheift fhe
p'up and Tibed forio  bitoul s ee'ivnolonge  ' '--er "x
The house was large, and fatheonlidedto" re potlon
of it. He. did so, and the new tenants saw .apparation&amp; and
he d           4inerdh noises to suih  dedr oa ,t ' t e' o '
sy    we aitl ftefee lfie'in the" Haudted'
CspLr RolV s    ,a nt inbieverrik dsififgM  andj (yrli
heed ta them- Ibwever, the 'story sooti #p Irad, °ad r is'j daid
that he ought to search the spring and the earth and-the 'rockE

,


'i*a Wt      -, r+ iy . - mz: 1 Ae9 ey ~~ie -'.h4q
o l adghoat :ther aeriotit o k {.Aje(:4ol e4n '=~
fir  'oA ~e. e' 'e ' -The w er ! vl g~~fi ;  fe 'e,h e at
1~w bey% Icanot edt .su}:;things eO ;Q-,y$t. W9~Tetl
*04 441 utljdgemnnt 4ay :n4  :ra'   d gdbf r~te.
4'.y; oeex IsonI  uld 'st-1+o 1: dp    ! !. o
"     ;    g:emod; ahre     e laa   4ih.yonngerkw
J~d~l54~p  ~wo~efreA some case; om  mJnw~
# u n - in ng       i  ctiy wtho window, .andI felt: ,the beta
~JIQ~ gradimauy eri gm. loo kea up aid- there stod *s
PQ9$ R5(Il qyer I m4z wh {etiue.: grasra t.h ~  ofb
iig entams    IW,   '~gi.  ycry a!', ypatal
! lpego*#ludet-sll   the, party andwe leftth#
ice-    e; n  ." gk a  :is 'y, ' and we se 4om or neverhoar
.t  fou $ 'thema!nted J lse."  'r t - t+
~4  raw p my h y-4+9t,^!'4yar  t's-w  -j  :." sega
eakti_ r te f-the ,hogtedhom  ,' said. old 4ob  wOn wha
j4lu   t$,ltsi   'mnd : me   BO, .,inids t
3 y eb h h,F if yehaver~t hoard. enoughL already, I  il
tyto tell'           m
REVEATIN-Ua RflARP N  'EW1QSum-J~QL
s  UB4e, t&amp;e8"a e h to.trt' ofdthe 'sre igwoman,
- testare ds yip&amp;   be1 eve that'
aerwho kn1o    rnfi~t ithearaveayd,:whe 'a l)Aun
-wI#mes   with, he  ~ ll  bos its; th' onlyaime in
{.;j~~stheewas 4frightailed , ac1h  1 shriek she, gave,. as s.ze

*      -       tu   ill1's BRarD.                   4
bony"hands fell on my shoulders, -When I-thought I was in' the
other world atre.'
.Tihd screanitg woman-- that 'story'sold, you've all heard it
often,' said Job with a smile.
'Well no raatt r giv- it s again
"I'll' tell you adoethitngnew firat and perhaps close with the
screaming woman,'
"Boys it was before ye made me an honorary meiiber of the
company -in fact sotheyeats ago,when I was started front aisound
a10ep About midnight, :by the Fennsb bell,' ringing rapidly!,n
alarm offire  ,I sprang out of bed, hurried:on iycothee-I
was'-young and active then--ad dptti'ted like a startled '4o,; I
suppose for the ' carriage.' I got the horn, and seyeraflahers
coming in directly, we had the carriage out ma thrice." ,The fire
was to the north west of us, and 'burning' terribly.  We soon
reached it.-it wasa laige stable on fire,and was ialf consnisel
by theaime=we could get the'tirst'.stream  of water on iti- it
was a bitter cold' night. 'Thetwater frbze almost as soon as if.left
the hose, and my fingers stuck'lik e axto the pipe, for'I reliev-
ed the first one whodireeted  it several times.
.When the fire first broke out, Casper Rogers, ;the owner ofithe
property, started up outof sleep and hurried'to s avehis horses
aid what else he could. He"thought not of the family :atthe
time, 'he only thought of his horses; and while his attention was
all directed towards the frightened animals, his dwelling'being of
frame also soonicaught, and before his family could escape itwas
completely enveloped in flames.
immediately gave the pipe intothe hands of anot er, and
swinging-the horn across :my back leaped from' tetret, and
darting through the' door ran up stairs to assist then to getfroni
'the burning house. they Were all astir, but the alarm had been
so sudden that the fire was'  almost on them; and just awakened
from sleep they were rushing about the rooms in frantic desper-
ation.' Old, Mrs. Rogers"was wringing her.ifands in bewildering
fright, quite unable to help herself from very fear; 'while -Srah
was crying with alarm by the actions of -he mother. 'I hurriedy
assisted the parent to escape, and 'picking up the daughter who
was then a little girl, into my arms I fled with her to the, street.
The rest ofthe family followed me, and thus all narrowly es-
taped.
A. neighbor took them in, where they were sheltered for the
night.:' Stabling and dwelling were burned to'the ground, not-
withstanding; we, fith other companies, used every endeavor to
Save at least' the house, but the weather 'was against'us, antl we


46

THJU FI BM ALABU lR D

were almost frozen that night: Itwas awfuly cold, but the horses
were saved, and Mr. Rogers presented us with aspendid 'card
of tanks' next day for our a ss xcesee  Ah boy0, we felt proud
of 'the puliio notice for it 'was the firt we had received.
-Sarah grew up in the old nighbo hood, l4twhen about seven-
teen, she was my partner, oto one ofur balls. She danced splen-
did,'arid I thought she was beautiful. I was onerof the manager
of the ball andOh ! howI regretedit. I finally managed to aake
arrangements to leave, and we left the place for her home both
glad to find a spot where we could Spend an houralone. Suffice
that before we separated that night,  had gained her promise to
be mine-then she was lovely indeed. She is lovely still-she
is jywfe.'
'Three cheers boys for Job Clawson ' said Ringgold throwing
up his hat; 'aid Clinton now give 9s in your highest key, the
minstrels return from.the war.or front the ball, just as you please,'.
he added with a langh. 'Come tune your pipes boys and join in.
the lappy chorus. Let's help old Job along in joy.'
The-song was sung by all with a hearty good will,, and then
Clawson was 'called on to Efnish 'his story. lie continued with a
face.beaming with happy cheer, the tradition of the 'Screaming
Woman of Kensington.'                    -
'It was lhte whenie 'left the ire for home, 'the very witching
time of night'--as Shatespeareh as it--'when grave yards yawn,
&amp;c.,' and as we were passing slowl along by the grave yard on
Hanover street; I was at the' head of'the rope, and looking up,
I saw through the darkness a short distance to the.,left of me,
something white as the driven snow, coming on towards the very,
edge of the gutter at a measured steady pace. ,I peered through
the donse darkness a moment if possible to discern what it was,
and 'I cannot now name all tlte innumerable pictures of things
which ' tho ghtr it was. At last, having heard of her before, I
thought 'of the screamnig woman.'I looked again, and she was
quite near, in fact we were approachiqg each other, She was at-
tired as I have said, in clear white,'so white that it almost shone,
in the darkness. In her breast 'there was a deep wound, from
which the warm blood, of a deep purple h~ue seemed yet to flow
Her eyes were fixed and glass and on she came udtil she stood'
on the very corner'of the gave yard; Wheri I saw-he. s.op, a
sudden chill 'ran through mjyveins, and my flesh began to creep
as if grave worms were alreaygreying on my body, , hoped
she would'pass by without seeing us, if in fact .she nold see at
all." But she paused amonent  a just as I reached a parallel
line with her; she o"cned her mouth and utteredd such a sharp

0

TH. FI RnMAN'S' JRID,               47 _
piercing scream,,so unearthly, soul chilling and terrifyitig, that
though I had sided of from her as far as I could in passing, yet
[felt flat in the road. 1y ,.o4,  I thought-the end of the world
had surely come, and I wars. then -whirling through unknown re-
gions fair beyond;the bound of time, through illimitable-space,
never to:touch the:earth with my feet again.: I felt as.if all my
blood, every spark of'animation hadlefo me, and 1Brae being
tossed through space like an empty hal. : felt in truth that ay
time had Torre, and I was absolutely nothing.
Tho rest of the corupany:I_ believe;leftthe rope, and fled over
the bank as if the very d--l, leading a whole legion, wasafter
them. After their: fright subsided, and she had disappeared,
they, or some of them returned to the deserted carriage just as
their fallen director was gettingup out ofthe :mud.
"Where is she, has she gone?' asked several of them as they
tremblingly took h old of the rope again, panting for breath.-
'My God, much as I have heard of her, I cannot stand her
scream. Itsperfectly awfu--wnearthly.'
We left the vicinity of the'grave yard hastily, you may depend,
and soon housed the carriage.  Some hurried home, but others
lingered about the hose :house, and talked and speculated about
the Screaming woman and her apparition.
The. screaming woman has been seen often. The men whoused
to work at Dyott's glass works-the glass blowers, for a long
while there was not one of them who had not met her some time.
in the night, er early in the morning, as they were-leaving their
work or returning. - They worked all night you know, and hone
of them but spoke of her appearance and scream without a shud-
der.- One by the name of Brown, and I believe is still living,
was so frightened by her one morning just as he was in the act
of speaking to her, that he fell. flat to the ground just as she
knocked me. Others have attempted the same thing with a like
fearful result.  Onuxew year's eve, three or four members of the
'Ebenezer 'church' near the grave yard, having heard a great
deal about her, and not believing whathde heard, determined to
watch and convince 'themselvesof the truth of the matter -I
believe, by the why, their pastor was with them too, and of course
nothingfrom the other world could harm them. Suck a force
off alyoea,.was prooa against Satan himself.
They attended' watch meeting,' and at its clQse went out aind
watched for-the  eamingwoinan.'
About one oa'loci she came slowlyRand evenly along, as
on the very edge,9of the side walk. This 'night it was nioonlight,
and ohe being alln  whiteso dazzled their vision that theyco


TE. FIREMAN'S' BRIDE.:
scarcely:looIksteadily on her. But, they had -determined to imako
a clbareport of what they saw, so they continued to watch, and
stood; cn .the corner=on the OpPodite side of -the street. On she
came ras though she saw them,-not, and as she neared the corner
of th gaieayard they determined to cross and speak to her, but
just s: she stepped into the street, she uttered a- fearful shriek,
aud they wore rooted to-the spot-struok=both .speechless-and
motionless--according to their wiw language.   hey felt the
hair of their heads'rise up and stiffen like quillsf and the very
blood .in their veins grew chillyand cold.- For some minutes
theystood thus like statues unable to ,move, but as she passed Oi
the selinWas broke and they broke also, and-ran like{lightning
down the Street.
And now boys for the' explanation of her oeturnal walks, as
given by the oldest inhabitants.;
Old-daddf Orist, wholived so loug adjoining the grave yard,
says :l-That this woman-when young, being very beautiful, was
loved by a sailor who insisted upon her; wddinkahim, but she
loved another, and of course refused the sailor's'hand.Odne even-
ing shortly after he had returned from sea, he persuaded her to
walkou-with himn,:and'as they9 approached the place where the
grave yard is-a lrge field it was then--their path.passed- along
neap a tree. An apple tree, it stood for a number of years in
one rotneofi the grave yard.;- They stopped betieath the tree
and he renewed-the suit for the loiely maiden's haid. SBe still
refused to grant his- prayer, and when with heavidg-bosohl and
down casteyes; she told him-she loved -another, he drew a knife
anid etah6d her to the heart.Hence the woundiin her-breast.
Dadd=rist skys, that when she takes her periodical walks, she
seoin  sdtoconie from beneath tha tree; a-ndthus yo have the
story- of the screamingj 'wonn.
gust as Cawson concluded his story, a pair of sinister eyes
peered into the room fr om the other side.The  belonged to a
man ,or-the-resemblance of a me n whm Job  did iotlike quite
as~ nWell as an'foysterstet.' Hisname was "lawkndarightwell
did his chracter accrd with the name he bore
'd3ysthat's theA61noidf tthe camp,'said Ola'son fas fawk
after lookiri  in'drew bank And walked sout, 'Was Inot here
he would have come in, bat.herowswhatdhioaof h ihehre-
fore dislikes anidfers me.  ires is  a e iher ofie orderibut
he is also conneetad with the ai   iti cla ub, ad plys'ihto tenir
hati. - Attendolboth thefithetings acours and Whatever-in-
fbaatiend he learns of our move snents, he hiiiestoeimpart to
er fois. Tell ye{ he's a t trat-.-a- ArnOld. And I tell ye

boys our members are sufficient to beat the enemy ; but those ar-
rayed openly against-us, are not ou' worst enemies. Our most
dangerous foes, are among- otrselvese; actually members of our
own order. Traitors to the cause--ready to sell us out to 'the
rat offer. Yes, Wrose than that, reaIfy plotting over defeat with-
out reward-- sworn to do s&amp;in thennountain -ichi.'
Not far- from. the 'Buck Darts' room, thorglh the night was
densely dark, four men might have been seen prowling suspiciously
about the hose-house, and at last assuredthat nne'oflthe comn-
pany were about the building, three of them entered&amp; y, the back
way, while the fourth, Mr. Hawk, kept-wateh outside.; the three
men inside, Donolon Rafferty, Maginnis and Dennis Me'linn,-..
had a 'bucket of tar with them, a chain and lock.  Their]first
movement after entering-the house; was to secure immoveably to
the floor, the hose carriage ; -the next tobesmear'it with targ id
the third movement- was to ignite several boxes of matches and
fire the house in a number of places, particularly benestlifthi
carriage. This done, they hastily retreated=through the igsathey
had entered.
Scarcely had they made good their escape, than the whole
building -being of wood was all in a blaze, and when first the
'Buck Darts' heard 'f- it, -they were startled bythe glarerof
flames issuing from the burning he=se'Thecry of fire waern
ed loudly, and they sprang and rushed to-save their carriage and
equipments. But the effort was uselessthey could save'nothing.
The carriage, as we have stated, was-locked;fast to the eoe ahd
their equipmentsr thrown in"a=heap and-fired.The deed as a
daring one; and could not have been done at the present time
The incendiaries efected their escape,'°and :though they have not
yet been brought to justioepthey yet remain objects of -uspicion.
The *"William 'Penn Hose company' was beloved throughout
Kensington, at least among the better portion of-citizens, and
they did not remain long without hote and new carriage. -Their
present building is a splendid one, ard=anlornanent to' theui gh
borhood. And if we speak of the older and more steady por.
tion of the company, there"is none  in:the city  inorerespeotable
and orderly. - Their disposition being-always to choose suffering
wrongfully, than to'ineite to rte or ibe the .aggreoare againfl
any party. Lft alonethey are peaceableharmless aM  dutiful
to the commonwealth-4dt arouse their ire,-tfir thir- bled and
the lndi n savage is-merciful in comparison intheir warfare
Encroach upon their rights,-and }they -will beard the=lion af op-
ressiondnd insulf iihis very den.No ,danger is tod feaffaL fof
them to face, no hazard too daring for them to bravo.

0


STHiS PIREM.   5  iIB

CHAPT$R X.
MYRIA  LAKELY-JACX RINGQOL2-VISIT TO THE MIsER---MYRIA'g
DEMAND--RESToQED PARUNT- LADSOME .MEETING--THE JEW'f
sINGULAi DEATH.
Wi should now perhaps turn our attention once more towards
Myria the Mad Actress.
We left her with her newly found brother Charles Blakely,
alias Morgan.
Myria's madness was by periodical, spells,. at such times when
alone and reflectingupon the wrongs heaped upon her by the vil-
lain Sefton, her betrayer. Then she would start up and fly from
the house, and-run wildly through the streets in quest, as she sup.
posed, of her vile seducer.
But when with her brother, his' companionship seemed to prove
a soothing balm to her troubled eand restless spirit.
Since their first interview, sh  had recalled his mind several
times" to her proposed visit to  aleb Seigle. And one evening
be called upon her and introduoed'to herJack Ringgold as one
whom he wished to accompany tem to the Jewish miser. Myria
bowed politely, and received him kindly for her brothers sake;
but she started as she remembered it was he Wha drew ier from
the grave a midnight sometiigsince. They knew each other
now, bt he kiew not, that it was her who had frightened him so
on that occasion.: After a season of, pleasant conversation, they
started for the home of Caleb Seigle. ' Fifteen minutes walk
brought themr to the miser's old;tenement.
Myria knocked at th dehr, nd after waiting a few minutes
they wereIadinitted. As the door opened, Myria caught sight
of the old Jew as- he sat:back, fir=hack:in his privatejrooin look-
ing towards the opened door. Again the horrible spell of mad-
ness was upon her, andwith aj wild; shriek she ran sand seizing
the old man by the arms she shrieked,-
'You said you would show remy father. lyuestore now my
parent, to me, oiIl despatchyou to king him from the other
world. My brother has cometo see lim also, and here is another
who knows-o  well.  Spek  1d wretch, whereis my father ?
Restore to :s our parent, or by-the powers of Pluto, youshalt
go in.a chariot of.;fire in quesHof -him.' -
JRinggold and Morgan l oked on in. mute astonishment, and

T   FIREMAN'# BRIDE.              51
the Jew trembled and turned pale beneath the.strane power and
manner of the excited girl. Suddenly he raised his hand, and
pointing towards the ,dor wih hadfst opened again, he ejac-
ulated with no small'degree of reliefs-
He has eome-'.he is there--God be praised I
In an instant all eyes were turned towards the ta'nsy Orm
of the new corner.
The Jew beckoned him to approach. He did s6,  d  he en.
countered the gazeof 1 inggold, he started spaia diiaally  and
mggold as helokedjppeared'to recogni  an  lf  eaintance
in the person of Orsot Didley
=Vyria a&amp;rid  harles gazed n the stranger but knew him iot.
The Jew ws the fista to speak,
'Myria and Charles,' said he, 'I-noweaonit in  elf of a long
starding obligatioti nc e Iattemted toytuiI r. your father.'
The:sister and hrother started at the bold confession, and look-
ed at each other in doubt.
And until a few months since,' continued the Jew, belie ed
I had done so. .But God be praised, that parent now stands be-
fore you.'
D dley immediately threw off his cloak and a pair of false
whiskera, and stood revealed in their midst, his eyes beaming
with unspeakable affection ; and resting fondly upon his two
children, who now in the greatest andinexpressible surprise,
stood=side by side.
Charles and Myria; hee±claimed approaching them with open
armsg 'you are indeed my long lost children, look upon your f-
ther Orson.Blakel. Sixteenyears have not diminished my loe
and paternal affection -for you.
Saying which he clasped each in his arns and the fond Myria
wept again for very joy. But an attempt to describe the ecstatic
bliss and happinessef the scene, would but detract from the jof
ous ieots of its deep reality.
The unefeakable joy consequent upon the reunion of the fond
parent and his two only children, after cruel separation ot i-.
teen years, could only be expressed in fast falling tears of heart
felt gratitude.
Seile gazed in silence upon the scene. It was the happiest
lie hadever beheld.
When each had somewhat recovered-from their joyful surprise,
Rif old approached Orson and said,
also with deep pleasure grasp your hand, though I have not
seen you since that eventful ay we parted.'


TE  PIRIMAN'S BRIDZ.

'My dear ir, 'tis to you Iwe mry life, 'replied Ilakely deeply
moved, 'and  shall never forge$ .ou..
Iyria and Charles noW east iw'iquiring ganie at each other
their father and friend, whiek  inggold ntcng said,a f
'Miss Blakely shall we retu n to your residene, an father
unravel-thisfmystery?'t
I sall eappyMr. ingkold to do so,' she answer  with
some embarrassmentt.            ,
'tay, ifrehere is           h          intrrptedthe
eW; "ie iithat achest.,' he  ofti ku0(1 p +irltinkg ,to,, here  i
treasure was deposited, "my money aid niyd ilL,
He arose, and unlocking theron chest threw,  ktJe -lj. re-
vealing to them several bags of gold; a taking; uphhe-Par
Impnth~nde4 it - to B aIe4y seaaing, y           . ,I
'1ap~rn~7O~1*. Rak~y.    e;eor, } ~taile.+ &amp;O~
Take it, 'tie yours.'F                 A  r . l 4Y(.
Orson took-athewilladp1X1"d i    t.de  fbb   g   rg   He
read anda.t 'te Qonchusion kernt .wat toy. .All Wete' *5
tonised but the delighted Jew, and his sudden exultant generu4
jo rastonished them the morr Ae Ahesaatn .n;s csr, 4a eqng
apparintly thyir glad:eurpris  a dild d4burst of.lagh r e
!appe dl , ,, e hanotlaug ed =o; yarsbefor eo   em
e 'rown inr the c u   tipofmoney, Alldooked it ac
ward liim,---he had fallen back in his chair ghasty pXtina :Or
sprang to hisse , :and e lle4  ilnt:habut '  as*W-eOef   He
was dead. DBlood.oing through} tlp vtigh1lj Al9s0&amp;t.oediteh
purjfing bisthi  a e1         4 the = tale}: Intheezoes :f
repentantjgoy, he had burst a blood ves el..h.
Solemnyerethefeelingeohe generous Qrxa1/a1ely ah
Ha uwoo c  teped'ia f       o    ,bs    r#w   the a.
heart amurderer, yet since he hadn sinerely rpene4a
restored ss fu 1y all that hp ,ad wron4g401 "ti d  1a
ley dould but forgive  Im I e; nM  t it  i *At a him t
.    -  +t'...d"  -d'e"°", lo                       }  i.
se  ' at ie at   d  ee    u  a    "_ .1:            ,

CHAPTER XL
8?AtxIK  REELsO~           TIS. MURDn-RrandonJ~
L RANT ERS AND MOANENSING KrLLERS-FIG#T.
Arwere seated a4 Myria'a home, and Ringgold comment
his Story.                                o,._,   t    cd
b  tdeeiyears agI live   n t
ofn, Hear the line of IPort Richmnond.- " was- inz the~ haitOg{re_
quent   ,a, small tavern kept by a'ew named See-..'
You knew him the-    tterrogated Myria
Iaid.Bdtone even      susul.I wass
16,, 'ngwhen a ectible looting ;ma i, &amp;riveleped in. a lrgecok  n~
denlyx  teFed.xid  proaching Seigle°hastil  wip   r  y n~.i
th~igto hi,  1~n ie  asiuineiaelv.conductedto6aprivate
room. Soon after, feeling strangely suspicious
and hastened up a side alley, and reached a side winde  o'
back room. I then saw the genedr re-ove rn b        a
cloak a bundle, and"unfolding it, was astonished    est Isefore
then a'rettr'babe, ;apparently buttlittle pait two o  r e  age
Where  stood, I of course could not hear.distinctly  l atiatw
spoken between them. But I understood that after the
closed,.he would call again that same evening   le t    r as
and gain entered the saloon, and when Seigleand th
returned I   liiseat as before                     stranr
' Atminight [     g eigle cleas the establishment, and.wh
he was ths= buily engaged,;Ihastilentered the room and flud-
ing the door=leadingminto the basement oen glid  it
nd seerted myself amnonsome barrels and casks there
S a  l                  n   r0 1,  ftr  so.
'H alf  atnu  fe,  helard" a;sipgular rap at h  er o~
sisting, l:ndleed of tkree distinct raps, . some two or -three seco1ndc
intreningetee'each. I listened attentively and S    l
immediately opened the door. Boonafcer the ersohe
kitesdaridadim elf entered the aparteient  ev
an etle areflly utheaaitan    tained myself near the door,
and~~ ~ l ridthttestranger had brought another  child-ta
be had been recommended to Seiglefer a co  mdats       a
eahenirsued b the ofer    afhe overneut fora
innted crume against the laws of the land. For  ha
Smok in h         pret, he        oised to remunee ath
h-i ye:.when hershould be ableh to leave the cnr  f
thi covesatonherequested to' be shown to rest.   '9  e nCf.

40


lusted him to his sleeping apartment, and soon after returned
-lone. I heard him mutter,"Ah, I-scarcely expected"ho had
tni- wealth with him--I must have it."
'LFalf an hour more he -lft the rooi. I listened, and thought
t heard a suppressed groan. Ishuddered, for  ewasifeidn
nad murdered the strangers Soon after, I heard Seigle con-
versing-with hiswife.Ten minutes more and I heard them com-
rn  onsaradb         their slow heavy footsteps judgeal they
were carrying something heavy. They reachedthefgrst. floor,
'  I er Silsy"Oen .the. door-,--,Supposingahe ,alluded
t the one leading to may hiding place, I immediately retreated
to mhe forer le  o oncelnt behind the cask{s. Tkeysoon
began to descend dragging with'them the mutilated ba of the
strain ger.le bore a woun in the ,left breast, from which the
blood  was ;yet slowly ooziog.  orrfoem     ii--    ol
not stir nor speak, my tongue clung to the roof of my mouth.
Never, never, can I forgive myself for acting such a base cowardly
part.'
"Tspast now, and the. future is bright.'-
Yes, I feel it is so,' returned Ringgold and continued,
They laid him on the ground, and Seigle dug a narrow exca-
vation some three- feet dcep--rolled the body over, until, it sank
beneath his spade, when he partially covered it, and then 'left
the- clar.
a oon as the sound of their retreating footsteps had died away,
and-all was- silent again, I stole fo my hiding place,; and as
hastily removed the earth from the body, raised it out, and my
next impulse was to leave and inform the authorities of the foul
murder; when, as I turned to do so, I thought I heard a slight
roan.    started .in terror--I listened-it 'eemed,to proceed
from the corpse.lBending down, I placed my: hand upon his
breast near his heart. tI felt a weak pulsation.. In hope, min-
led with fear, I glanced and felt around the cellar, yet scarcely
knew what for. Instinctively as it were, I drew from a cask near
me some whiskey in my hand, and applie it to his wounds,which
sedo bee m          a  amoistened his parched lips with it
an bathed his face and temples. Fainting hope quickened with
fresh impulse, and I soon realized the joyous satisfaction'of feel-
in him move. The basement was very dark, so that I could not
distinguish futures at all. I searched, and as the fates would
have it, found upon the :side, of the staircasedsever l oandleoan
some. matches.   immediatelystruck a light and soon compr-
hn4 ed the correct state of thecase. The wounded man woro

a buckskin iundergarinent, which fortunately had prevented the
wound being deeper, and so saved liis life. The knife had en-
tered just below the heart, and in the flesh but a couple of inches.
With my handkerchief, I bandaged the wound, and in ten min-
utes he opened his eyes; gazed vaguely around, but soon as he
saw me he closed them again, and shuddered with seeii fear.
I approached,. and lifting hjru in a sitting, hwh  et? gpot ure, inquiredof
him,"howhe elt " He did not answer -but laid his' hand upon
the wound. I then requested him to remain as he was until I
returned. He nodded assent. I turned away, opened the doer
and passed through the yard into the street, hastened home, and
nroused a brother who had just returned frojn sea -hastily in
formed him of the transaction, and then procuring chaise, so
agan rachd te hus, where we found the wounded man still
sitting where I had left. him, his eyes now quite open and clear.
As we approached him he gaspedq.
"Where will you take me ?"
'I assured him that he was now with friends. We carried him
out quietly, and unseen by any one placed him in the vehicle,
and conveyed him to our home. In two weeks he had quite re-
covered, and in confidence requested us not to prosecuteSeigle
ash as   pursued by the officers of the' offended government,
and it might probably lead to his capture, also informing us that
Seigle had now in his possession an immense sum of his treasure
also two children ; said I might wthteJw   digtheatsfr
so doing I should at some day be amply rewarded for my
trouble. He then filled a check requesting me toca   for
him at the bank of---- ''Tis llIbrqusmmt cash it for
hi                   s all  I have there, said he, handing
me the check. I received it and proceeded as directed, and re-
turned with about two thousand dollars for him; placed it in his
hand, when he returned to me five hundred of the amount as a
present, saying,
"'Tisa small sum for saving my life, but this remaining
amount is all that I have now upon which to travel to France,
and thore maintain myself for perhaps five years. But," he
concluded, Seigle has my fortune ; watch him well and do
not let him suspect you, then shall he. return my wealth with
fair interest." I declined receiving the five hundred dollars,
but he would not take it back. Next day he took his leave of
heto                                lslaeus,' but left his name, 'Orson Blakely,'
eMy   dear, dear father !' exclaimed the loving Myria, twining
her fair, arms around his  manly neck.
'Yes, yes, my child,' he replied -pressing her tenderly to b

I

65

uI1 ,k'IWtE L es DRYD7 "

54

TIE - FIREMAN'S BR.DR.


.Tgi R 1  MAN' wBID
bosom.  'It was your father who suffered thus; but listed ntil
my-preserver has.concluded.V'
I have almost; done,' continued: Ringgold. have watched
Seiglewho shortlyafter: buryinghis wife, changed his buses
and assumed the name of Abel Grimps. Of his strange and un-
.ex peetodrepentance- you are aware.'   =,}   f
'e e  anditappears as singular, for in his will which I have,
-      ' has restored to me my property, with a large accumulation-,
n   ship eine h ofesasion and repentance, and the f I o-
4l. ,whigh, he, haismade, I can hatl  ogv    i~al     n
thank.heaven it is, no worse.'
9larkI' said Ringgojd starting to his feet, 'does notthe State
Ho      l bllgring? 3?Jes, 'tis fire  And see,' heoContinued, 'what
terrible light it gives.' I beg-your pardonr Mr'Blakely, duty;
you= kn w when duty, 'g'ig ours to ob ey. DBtit I'll- see you
again.   lria, Charles, good night,' and he sped. down the street
jostling and forcing his way through the fast increasing' crowd,
#lyingto the fiery scene. _  .;F            a}       : tr
T  .thf etae o-esentinel still sending forth the
ring tones of alarm  in quick and rapid peals, fa llwed in- .q
susi~flby ,a hundred o-her bells throughout the several wards.
ere     w    a te so       portion oy the ity, ad was the
result of the following plot.o
Well boys, what say you to relieving old Grimps again of
some of his' plunder, eh?  We once owned a pretty good share
f. itqou low, but as he paid:as so grudgingly for it, 'tis but
right that we should possess it again
. 'vn ! Yes, 'tie ours, and we'll have it again, echoed  a
dozen voices.
Unamous,' chimed the leader of the Moyamensing  illers.
In union there is strength, and to-night the miser's wealth. is
ours. But listen! I have a plan to suggest. My motto is-
dead men tell no tales,'.".
Jravo' echoed again through their dingy and secret retreat-.
you approve of it it is well ; if notwhy themajoriy rules.
My     isa is this--                          no
'eu          ht secure upon the outside, all the windows and
o   about the premises save one in the rear. Then two.or three
nt     iety, and the rest of you remainoutside within sight.
As to the dog, if he make    noise, stick  m  but get the miser's
p   without despatchingte      .man ifyou can; and then,
lieu we've done we'll fire thepreises.

THE FIREMAfN ing,
.,'ravo~! bravo 1 A geod plan;' again sattd *
tnanlious league.            agsnear frhnde*re
.And thus we have the plot of themit
'svs,,considered several -days p ter tr e  - design,
'execution of it..une designedde' the
the e ab asr
Abel-on riiws,  tepwi~krand rectier.4f slen ocodsas
oewahad become the. bone of. contentjoR, betwo~  hiw
yival  combinations of out4hreats and th'ievestee theawe
'Rager' nd '.oyanrensing  illrs'who,    ,h -Acar, __'    t.   : as thee ia lavsihii
Tat rg   tn 0 money lender,heacheow felhs-though11thoy'MiM
£)ousessed a perfect right to he -miser's 'geteyh.
- enih      pointed arrived, which wa4 the e  l  ng
Segle'deatfhbut they 'knew not that he waow'gd.,d' eysat
decomeineed theirplan ofoperatiene, but.ahe de e alrad
u"o srte~~a  led tin  t  ojc  f n
dd jt Tarneulit      obeaet otV under, for all they found
tsomre ta              but ftiy.4olIra; onsstixgF
some    rdeemedp1edges, jewelry&amp;c., whinb at' y  d iath.
front, iothe  ut eie  ey could net find ; so cursin their
dl lck teyroughly ranisacked the premisesthnfiig ~
house in several places, scattered and retired t f witnes the
:artio  ,Fncee e  rr   ingef-farsei tness the con-
~fiagatie. Hece te'ai rf  irrg of-frar e it created a great
light all over the city.g
" And j hey, hey, go inller 4-h  -her dree
pitch in killers -ke.,' and other like expressions - et her rp
har4rough'voices thre  at-onee the eaiareons from a hundred
a enofbaonfusia.ud fright   other a     boxhnatro Whes
and maidens, all fled away in alarmand--rre
fierceptched.battle commenced with the f
ie e  ;cjted a led onbythe o     rst  iabof: the kil .
S~ns, .briek- ats Randd .other .' ateri s ew i  ?r .hrrt 1, ti  ind  i  '_  . aevery  &amp;tioif;
hrled   y stury hands,    aimedby la1less  is   st o
and revolvers were. fired .aeery  i
d    the iurierous bowielnifud-i0 ned   dri ,xj
dshtedah gilisted ntheiry         en-
Murdered  and seeing maidens tramped  . The o
thbrut, rthtges onlyd tii f he4
ern:. _ir theli ht f he;i   y hr,~~..

I


1-                 '1:e FIREMAN'S IFw.
bers from both lawless bands increased, and reinforced each
other until the entire strength of both clubs became hotly ei-
gaged, and ceased only from sheer exhaustion.
Yet the-ire burned en, smouldered away, and next morning
the bright clear sun shone upon the ruin of some doze old tenes.
ments not far from Seventh and Fitzwater streets. In the midst,
and still smoking, lay the ruined premises of Caleb Seigle, alias
Abel Grinps.
text day, the city journals chronicled the account of the ter
iible-coeifiagration;'andef the disgrace upon our city of another
Firemen's fight, alluding to the number of killed and wounded,
,whose names were retained in secrecy by their respective clubs.
Two months have rolled away into the- oblivious shades of the
pasb, and to many the sudden disappearance of Caleb Seigle
hoeod learfully mysterious. While many to the present believe
that he was eruelly buined to death in his own home the night
i was reduced to ashes..

CHAPTER XIL

TAiK IN A TIGHT PLAC--THE NOBLE JIREMAN-SECRET POE-
A. FRIEND-HAWK, !TH TRMTOR AGAIN-TER LIBBRTINE-
HIS FLIaHT--oApTriE.
As the William Penn hose carriage passed Myria's home the
members of the company, largely swelled by the luck Darts,
Ringgold left the rope and rushed into her company, to the in-
,xpressible surprise of all present.
ia ! ha ! wel11yric . Mr. ,Ilakely, back again, though you
mayjudge from my appearance that I have made a narrow esp.
Why, my dear fellow, what in the world has happened ?  I
bope there has been no fighting, Mr. Ringgold,' iquired Mr.
- ig i Indee  iire has been a regular piched battle
S ~en te  oyame a gf(i lprs and SchuylkillBangers;i and
pgh I.wasnotin it, ti~   is I took no part in the fight, ut
9A9 times some how rothoi theymanaged o get me io
s tglht place, so that as we'some timessay, I tore unselt away

E6% MBN'SEn .1              ' t
Justlook at my coat, not long from the tailor's band, 4wi allia
ribbons or shreds.' Springing round on ,hid. eel,;hg eibite
the remnents of a fine black coat; a tremendous_ ren up the
back from the skirts to the Collar, and min s  skirt and :te"ve,
His hat awfully laved in, and one,, the legaof his pan taoo
torn off near the knee ; altogether he looked, even though hemy
not have been in the Jight, as if he had roeeive4,some veryhard
knocks.
But why should he in such a plight rush into the presesse of
theigirl lie loved?
Jack was a Fireman, an active Fireman. He was proud and
pleased to serve, in the noble hearted Fireman's capacity, any
who might be distressed, and he was not ashamed oftehooe eats
or marks he might chance to receive from his;foes, while inithe
.discharge of his-duty.  He had passed throngh.a many a bard
battle unscathed, with a degree of cheerful eccentricity pl asiing
to the 'Penn Boys' to see. - And though sometimes rough.o
coarse in speech, yet he possessed beneath an ungainly exterior,
a heart affectionate-and true, which caused his breast to gloir
with impulses generous and warm. Void of malice towards}all,
he was his own greatest enemy-liquor and his own liberality
are the names of his greatest foes:
He now gave his listeners a hurried explanation as to the local
its of the fire, his suspicions etc., of the conflagration, involving
in ruin the late property of Caleb Seigle, and.then with a degree
of deviltry at which she could not-be provoked, gavedMyrm.g
hasty kiss and rushed from the bose, leaving them still in *um-
prise quite as great as when he entered, but of a different: nature.
It was of the destruction of the miser's property.
As Ringgold was hurrying along with spirits light and free,
he was struck a stunningblow by a powerful man w1o was lying
in wait for him in a dark alley, on Frankford Road near Qireen
street. He did not see the man, shrouded as he was in darkness,
he only caught a glimps of the outline of the arm and fist, whih
dealt the b ow so heavy in its force, as to knock hims reeling in
the street. The moment he struck the villain ran. As Rag--
gold staggered and reeled endeavoring to prevent his falling, he
fell against old Clawson, who said--
'lHalloo achk, this you-wate antics are these your utting m
tie stree , yourcost alltore in this may. Where have yo  enY'
A Down to that fire among the- .Killers.' Btt say Job :;this

f

:t

-i ^


~o*~-di     n judn4#W# spdixo Jaok i at bafd~oo
et front the efect of the had blew.
'$Strg  ye What ere orankCerd Road,; have-yer beem
les °tiekK saw       on e trike yy dbt now Irewollet i
ddseebigroughfeller rin    p Queen-street,'-heoked like
ei them Rich endee4heaveran'
a      coward              "hits hard though : Jk had
brgotten his favorite oath, the American flag.
forg tte  hisbfr  o u..n-:ah                       ..
'Hurt me-why he's equal to the " Plug Uglies," o t  i
now tasisted him ver te street,     dt         e
owlrtgethe   towards the hose house.lj  :      ;s
- r heen -V16 struck ithe blow .was.Donelen Rafferty, the s me
who leditheattack o  linton,'the Mechania=Authors' a nored
-ha sldgs at Riuggold'sheadat:theongue of the arrage Band
whomin etg n  inggel&amp; knocked into.the rivr.:  f  .f
*My G: lawson, Id like a get; square wih that fU ll.
hav'nt hadsuch blow foimany, a, day,' sad Iinggohl, a
heyproceedidslowly along..
v              ,would know that eha  should:,-meet h i  agan, I think .
said Job. 'But it is not werthwhile;tegive _hase tr  gl&amp;:
;'ott to-night. But I catch hi   yet,, I'  Halo hbee
ake care which .ay ye agol fe le ep Vthe windyard,
erd Ill smash yer'igure hoca grewle  iaggp  addreaig:hiw
*eli b hmtly to  a m an, whoibig7.iefagu tiatedina4 gaes
heuehfor ee that3eaAh  taggeredofwiathenserab velp-
. ity  The eangetgr   bl4gomethi    z about singg part b,
the narrownesS-ofth  ie e$a  &amp;c,,t"pasedOn
_iggoht         the beaof humoregaid scetha g  to Caw
Q    ibOnt giihimgie a ae  dolager?'= ust:to straighenhi m up"
o" sai4 b  don't strike him-he's drink t
,     shoi.iahe, any. hg': Aind both turned and looked ate
heiman atle 0agger ed.a  y down the es t.   s
By Jove    ejaClate.d j.b Ido heliee that' athe .bertne
S   PD.,/Beft u.'2
do?
" Yes I do.',
l       8 lt's stop hiszare  and bring. him  o aeunt.'
to uighte..S denk andit would bo toan;        ad
ot p  hun   Let    go '

THB FIREMAN'S BRIDE.

- 'Well, just as you say Jo-.h bu bytthe"stara
like to have a gooclpahi'       byte'ar and strpipes,  'de
like to ~mve a god clip at him,' concluded poor Jack,; still-caf
ing under the secret blow fromn Raoer d     J     t     a
' But Jack, there goes one o  r
ed on the other side of ths streeurposer ; see he has.orese
villain, and I place him in the same category with Sefton.'
What, Hawky. D you think he's so bad, Job?'
.I think, Jack that Kirk Hawk is as great, if not the greatest
that   he ave i    s a black hearted traitor=--- believe h
house.' p           did not execute the burning of the hse
' Well Job I have often thought it amyteyabuttht.f.ar
and your opinions don't often err.'
' Opnon, I believe that it is a fact that he is  -
a thief and a traitor. He should be drive a  ran umenda
never bring us -any good.en away from us--h
As they entered together the rendezvous of the '
Riuggold started, for on looking  e behd       en
.Blakely in large lter gn up h     ehed the name of My
ilaey inlarge letters on :a- massivepester, to appear on th
on the following night as Lady M  b  terin t appa on tha
name. He was surprised the more, becatise he had been inher
company that very evening, and she said nothing abouter ithe4t
rKcal engagement.  Lie read the entire bill attentivelyher at-
terly there had a charm, a pecliar ehu r attentive ,o af e
which seemed to enchain him where over   ahsar    enme
he heard her name pronounced wvery soun seedhngicj
his ears. And even in his alee at night soud hevs ini.ot.b
ing buildings; saw the curling la  w had he visio  o brin
a female fori, and rushing to the rescue, fondlyfole'ed  loved
Myriad in his arms,  Thus many e night ofonreayf  his tne
slumber was passed away byhe night of dream, haltAking
mght as he read the loved name over and overous ain,  Anglo
transfixed to the spot, a burst of loud laughter again, seeminde
aroused him, and as the. blood of his noble frosom pasplerad h
face, rising to .his very temples, he passed into m ptheirpmidt wih
an effort to conceal his embarrassment with asmile ndhist with
Bat  he was unsuccessful, a                    and a laugh
'Ha! ha ! Ringgold is in love with My
ed him on every hand.                yr a the actress, greet:

61


TUE    uWMp' .IDM.
'Ho! why Jack, what's the matter with the coat' asked several
in a breath.
' Ha, ha, a splendid figure. npw you are, for the gallant and
groom of an actress, and such  one as the accomplished Myria
Blakely.'
Come, come boys, stop thi , or I'll call some of you out-
I'm not well to-night, and soine of you may buy a fight cheap.'
A smothered laugh hailed this speech, and--
' Jack's been down among t e Killers to-night, and he feels
ugly,' concluded their taunts on poor Ringgold.
Milford Sefton, after a number of deviations from a direct
course, and the deciphering of several numbers stopped at length
before Myria's door. Grasping the bell pull, he pulled stronger
than he intended, but the fact is he had little control of himself.
Myria hastened and opened the door. As- she did so, he stammer-
ed out her name, and at the sound - of his voice, so unexpected,
she started back. -   -
'Myria, I would speak with you a moment,' he continued.
But Myria; recovering, attempted to shut him out: In her con-
fusion she failed, and he seeing her intention, endeavored to foil
her, but staggeringlhe fellheadlong into the room. Myria utter-=
ed a scream, and her parent and brother ran to her side.
'Why Myria my love, what ,means this.-what's the matter?'
hurriedly enquired her father, as he neared the place where the
doctor lay stretched upon the floor,. The force with which he fell,
tiad the effect of partially sobering him, and he soon managed to
gain his feet.-'
' Sir,' said Orson Blakely as Sefton . arose, 'what mean this
abrupt entrance here?'
'Ratker abrupt I'll allow,' Sefton sneered. 'It was an ac-
cident, but I don't know  that I should explain the particular
cause in all its ramifications to you, sir-I came to speak with the
lady.'"
'Milford Sefton, hasten fropi my presence. I wish not to
speak with you. Already you have escaped my vengeance several
times, why should you rush into my presence thus. Our meet.
ing will cost you your life yet-beware-oh father, send. him
away ! I hate that mani';
As the sound of father fell upon Sefton'e ear from Myria's
lips, he started and cast a rapid glance from face to face, of.

TILE FIREMA 'S GDS,

father, daughter and son, and then  a            -
hin as the, ti-uth Bfashed  th n -a sudden ,tremblmng=seized
himas he rut  flshed through his mind. She had found'a
last the brother and parent, of whosmm- he had   ounhad ht
speak'; and ha ving foudte,  hdm _une had often heard her
Spek; ndhavngfound them, had found a protector who would
prove dangerous to him.a                      oL
'Has this man injured you, Mria?'                .
~  ', father, do not ask.'u   i "..  her parent imquired.
'Ohra, Ifbeg  ou     Turno him from the place.'
My  iaIeyour pardon,..4orgive me. M     dear sir, I beg
your pardon,' Sefton stammered, addressing  y    rirstbten
her parent, with trembling awe  But assn g yria rst,then
towards the abashed villain, he rushed from the house and rang
down the street.rran
'Oh the villain .I'll reach himtyet,' Myria
eluded her enraged parent's gramurmured,ase
Hurrying down the street, he fell Over-apoliof   s
on the side of a cellar asleepwho as oe  preofficer sitting
jumped up and Springing h.s rattle furiously, soon had two or
three more in the chase of poor Sefton, who now redo   hiso
speed, and ran. like electricity down Beah nd rOubled his.
street. But as he neared th  ion Beach and over Maidern
Street. Buck--d hed the bridge, crossing Cohocksink creek,
galackeaday, to elude his pursuers, he ran on the inide of the
bridge, and before he ,could check his speed, he fell down the
descent into the black mire of the creek.
He was now indebted to those frm  .
for saving his Jifefofheh    ro m whom he was trying to $
for then hs ie, for they hauled him out and marched himoel
to the 'lock up' for the balance of the night,.
CflAPTBR XIIL
MYniA's TRIUMPH--DESPERATE CHASE-..--' AVENGED AT LAST*-A
FEARFUL DEED.
IN appreciation of the great preparation made for the l
heralded appearance of Myria as Lady Macbeth in Shakspeare's
great tradegy, the public, ever liberal and generous i the
port of true talent and genuine merit, filled the theatre to oversp

Aft


64                TiIE FIREMAN'S BRIDE.
Ing  An"again lyria, burning with the eloquence and spirit of
her task, appeared triumphant amid applause almost unbounded.
.Dirinigthe second and third acts, her parent and brother proud
of her' trimphs were near her. 'But while preparations were
being made for the final 'triumph -in the laat act, (every act in
which h -lef 4 dpared was a triumph,) they took seats in front Hof
thebhouse- to'itiess, with better-effect,'her final appearance..
The tragedy closed with a sudden burst of renewed applause-
for the great t'ragediene. They thought: not at the moment of
their overflowing adulation in her behalf. that she, who had
thus by a magic, mystic power enchantedithem so long with the
beauties of the great dramatist-that she, the unhappy Myria,
was spasmodically a maniac--that this peculiar mnystic sell was
indeed the great source of the terrible effects of her tragic power
over =them.
Lng 'after 'the drop curtain struck the stage, continued the'
eigqhnting spell of Myria's final triumph among the applauding
audience. But as they loudly called for her, where was Myria?
Why did she notonce again greet 'their longing vision with her
splendid 'make lip,7 and her ripe, beautifully developed figure ?
Why? - Again that horrid spell of iaadness was upon her, and
she was flying through the street just as she left the stage, i a
dress of white, and in her painted hand, the blood-colored knife
that reached the heart of Duncan.
]Ev'ei ge,' she shrieked-'Now to revenge 'inflong borne
wrongs. Wretch of my ate! I'll have' thee yeti You cannot
restore that of which you have so basely deprived me. Blood I
-your heart's blood alone can satisfy my-vengeance.
And thus she flew on over the street, as if in quest of the
object of her burning revenge, Seftonthe roue.
The night'was far advanced, and there was none, or but few
persons stirring any distance away from  the...theatres or other
places of amusement.
To the upper portion of the city, towards her home, she fled
frantic and :wild.
Some who saw her leave the theatre,, hurried ont after her, but
she aeon eluded and left them all i:4 the greatest wonder and, sur-
prise.
Her parent and brother, also, as they returned to her room ii

THE FIREMiAfW$  IDfE.              f$5
therear'of;the theatre, and heard the startling newt of  her wild
flight, were astonished beyond measure.-
'Oh, my. child !-my dear Myria, 'what is this borrmt tp
- lit-h possesses - thee?' cried the afflicted father, as he ashied
about the place in asort of delirium. '=0-God, am I to be thus
deprived of my dear child again!N. 'I will seek heir to the
ends of the earth. -Come, son, let us seek your sister, anid  ot
losetime here. They dashed from- the place; fatherand son,
in-great' distress, to 'seek ottthe unhappy Myria, who now -as
far from_ the theatre, and within -a' few squares of her-home,
though i her mad-flight she 'knew it not.
Sefton, who had been this evening again-prowling near, her
home, was now flying rapidly before her -down towards the river.
Ye Gods, what a chase ! .He'saw the dreadful'knife clutched
in her hand with such a deadlygrasp, her robe in wild disorder";
her long hair all flying and snapping in the wind,.and her jetty"
eyes burning with such a piercing fire of vengeance. Her whold
demeanor stamped with a death-dealing determination. He 'stag
gered and fled before the mad girl in a tremor of fright and de.
spair. Such was the effect of-her resolute appearance upon  hat
little soul he had left, that he believed his time had now gonle.
That should he not now- meet with some particular fafor-of-
chance, his days were indeed numbered, 'and Myria the wronged j
one, was at last revenged.
On he fled towards the river, designing to turn down' the
street and escape along the dock; but the descent of the street
here added such a velocity to hie flight, that before he could' tun
she had run him- out to the very edge of the river. There'were
no vessels ia the dock, but after darting several times along'-the'
wharf, endeavoring to pass her, he dashed - behind a large post
on one corner of the wharf, which had -been used for mooring-
vessels fast to 'the shore. -And now commenced a sort of'-ruun-
ning chase around the post. But it was a fearful game -the de.
spairing villain had determined to play+with the actress-to lead
the circular chase until she growing dizzy, he could the easier
hurl her into the dock, and s make his escape from her. But
he had misjudged the minutesnature of the spell which ws ai
her. The giddinessof the chase only added vigor to the apeed
-irth-which she kept upathe pursuit,' and lost to all -Sese of dan-


er she dashed upon the libertine in a very frenzy of revenge
and rage. Hotter and hotter grew the chase, closer and closer
the xi  ,neared the libertine's heel
Tired and breathless, he suddenly tt rned at bay. As he pant.
ed an instant for'relief, he cried--
My God Myria, one of us must conquer!
Like the infuriated tigress, she dashe upon him.
'Ha, ha, ha,'revenged at last.'                 -
Just at this moment, the State House bell tolled out in clear
loud strokes the hour of twelve.
'Ha, ha,' she cried, 'the State House bell! Villain, it is the
knell, that summons thee to hell.!h
But ere she concluded, he had grasped her tightly in his arms
and lifting her above his head, with a fearful oath he made a des-
perate effort to dash her into the dock, As he lifted her in the
air, the mad girl grew even more frantic than before, and again
her fierce tragic tones rang out on tie que mn   th  ni  i
frightful effect. ' Ha, ha, caught at last, and plunging the knife
inohis neck, his hold of her relaxed, and as her feet reached
ite gr unde f  again, he stumbled ,d fell over into the river.
It was more the stunning; force of th lw  hc  ooee    is
hod of .her, than the death dealing, depth" of the dagger.,I
touched no vital part, but as he fell, aarge iron spike projecting
above the wharf-edge, pierced his temples, and without doubt
proed he  irect cause of his death. He lever rose again, but
the body of he drunar and libertinp went to feed the fishes of
the; gulf
The he instant her enemy disappeare  beneath the dark waves,
th  ecion in Myrig's bosom was sixd4en and severe. The spell of
madness was gone, and the beautiful girl was once more a ra.
tional creature.
'M God ! what have I done ?' sheejaculated as in prayer, and
.7                            e.fr  h  t Sela  o  r,
the next moment she was flying            She had not pro
seeded more than three squares,wense =ana     ain  hearold
hoalso ;was hurryitsg along; for .'ei  g ktethatr, ain-e
ing- of hier,- udden flight ftroy the place, he, had started- in pa-
ful       of her.
pn rs i       h      h   at  frst to. be  a  olce  oflicer,  and
w~  inkn'at hisfe~t wit] we  a    du.arast hen~oud off

of her lover' voice started the loodwith renewed vigorrough
her frame again.
'Heavens Myria, is this.you ? What are you doing hear thus
attoer  e  fbent down and raised her to her feet. He looked
into her eyes, for he had feared the worst.
h God, John, I have done the deed in earnest to-night.*
'Wht dedWhat mean.you Myria ?
'Sefton-Milford Sefton is dead. I killed him.'
talk wildyia.   hush. You have not done this thing. You
talk b  y. eCome, let me see you home ; 'tis very late. We
really  i  sedg you long, and your father and brother are
gr     dtessed on account of your absence. Come-'
Oh my God! see here-my hands are bloody yet t What
eaean done?   "Wl hall geat Neptune's ocean wash this blood
ear           -and?   Oh loved one can you love the ±nur-
deress?'a arr
' Come, Myria, lets go home. Lv  oae     huhIcuh
yu             But I believe not the tale. Sefton s  live
'le, does not. lie now lies dead in the be oftelrive,-an
see his blood upon my hands. Will you not belier thereividenen
noble Riuggold?'S            ilitntblee h         vdne
aIcannot, loved one. This on your hands is but Venetian
paint, to int hebloy illusion n your part to-night;an
yorgeirg, your brain, your soul is worked upon s with t
tragic spirit and boldness of the Lad dy Macbeth, that youWimth
ne you have indeed murdered Sefton in the person of.oor
revenge, and he deserved it at your handsyout it is    t o
And you at least are yet guiltless of his blood.'
Yes Ieam  avenged at last. But oh, to be guilt of causing
the death of a human be'ng  be he ever so villainous orsflau
awful now to think of.' genful,
'but here we 'are at your home. Huh -sea    n mreo
.     ingod opened the door, and Orson lakely havi
dust entered before them, turned as the e
ing inoto e  . oftar, at self into his outstretched arms,
adfrmt    gushing fullness of 'her overcharged bo', re
out -.$m:rd

T1  PfluEMAN'S BRWu.,

THE FI MS'S BRIDE.

66

67


68

iRi~ i rEAx'8 BRXID .-

'Oh 1 my father l  .y'father forgivmae, and though thepa.
rent realized great joy in embracing his child againyet "supch
was the paternal sympathy that his tears were mingled. with
herm
Yes, there was the girl-the wonaxi broken up, who possessed
so fully the strange power upon the public stage, of bowing the
crowded theatre to her magic will. Her tears of penitence and
eventually of relief, fowed like rain.
Yes, yes; avenged ap last; but oh, how dread the decd'; She
sobbedat length. It was:long ere she became sui cieutly calm
to converse satisfactorilywith her brother and parent. Ring
gold remained withthem until a.ate hour. Whenbe bade them
good nightie promised to be .with them again on the following
en mng
4yria yielding at last to the persu sion of her parent,;4etired,
to rest, in order to allow her nerves to gain their natural equi
JibrigTpw
'She retired  bxt :ah siepeam Pnt np i  her, except in ahert
dozing or,6&amp;t1idrea m   .in  Lqng. she cast erseW..fron side to
ide6f her edudlvin evers restlessnas. As n j ightful vision
she enacted the tragic character of the  ofsat     emssct,
\ad suffered; all thepains-of Mr after ktter remor eA gain
wa srwfijlj g. qun4the fgtgi withgth el ir   n dagger in
tn  io   he ntgp g$eftg.a agagg    in y  op   p unge4
te   i f toi iliitoithe"nsckof her etrgyer irz t] hyskys
i u@ ' rie4ut, f    a± h   ~ a     sat 1 't.'  he saw$hip4fall
ad a"eret,ng afinkbeng tthe dar wages, purpliang tem
it h rsd'MAod.;And again  a sher   l at g -in allth exC uni-
itrig paa of  a deathless ereore
SHere' the smneo of the nod Nti '}   she sadlr m.age49 ia
he  agi&amp;      ajulofLay Macbethfi  AI t1e perfa es of Arabia
ilet sweeten this littleand.        oh t oh.      *    .
Her groaningan&amp; gighing b     seaohenyh  it atroId her
arw4t, :wh  abose and ge ht Th ie eatto 6see if rIn daughter,
if he, iunlas-py)%ya  a: distuIA  froriers  disreeabl
Mikalbe Sheaentihier    tihl         :ih    ;  a req bip
kbliistUrrt df'              and 'lfedi-hft'agal mostt a

i

j,
t

soon as her head touched the pillow) into a similar train oi
night-thought.
She awoke in the morning bnt little refreshed. Yet though
her eyes were somewhat red, it disappeared from them by nobn,
and the slight fever she had but added a pleasing charm to her
lovely face. So that in the evening when Ringgold greeted her,
all trace of her former sorrow and distress was gone. Attired
in a.plain white dress, a single .red rose on her bosom, and two
whitebuds'in- Sher dark hair, she looked guileless andT lovely,
and the gallant Ringgold was utterly unable to conceal his pride
of her as she welcomed him to a seat by her side with extended
hands. le was surprised.on seeing her looking §o happy and
well sosoon afterher, ate mad spell, yet would not speak'his
wonder, forle desired not tp call to memory again that which
was sohainfl to her, to him, to all, the night before.
No allusion, therefore, being made by either to the gloomy
past, their banquet of love was the sweeter and happier far.
Sunhi ae and liss seemedthq bright pathway of tieir futre
-ie

THE FIREMAN'S BRIDE.

69


TO

THE FIREMAN'S BRIDE.

CHAPTER XIV.
PROCESSION-TIE ASSAULT--THE BUCK DARTS AND THE GREEKS
.-RINGGOLD AND RAFFERTY-ARRESTS--SCENE AT THE STA-
TION HOUSE.
WHEN the body of Milford Sefton, (or properly Morgan Slater)
was found, it was so disfigured, his face so mutilated by the fish
and decay, that it was with great difficulty he could be recognized.
It was, however, found on the -Coroner's inquest, that the per-
foration in his temple, 'by some sharp instrument,' was the
cause of his death.
The night following was a season of great public rejoicing
throughout the entire city, and an immense torch light proces-
sion of firemen and others, added greatly to the hilarity and life
of the occasion. Banners of every design and ,Knish, and tran-
sparencies, comic and sentimental, innumerable, the ringing of
bells, fireing of cannon and small arms, and music unrestrained,
hooting and cheering constantly along the lines of the proces-
sion, spread an untold gaiety throughout the public revel.
The whole city was illuminated by the torches in the hands of
those in the procession, and all along the route the ladies, (many
of them daughters, aye and the wives too of our wealthiest and
inoet influential and respected citizens, though the night was
damp and cold, an eager and a nipping air prevailing at the time,)
with glowing hearts, rosy cheeks and smiling faces, leaned out
far ut of the doors and windows; and even over the varandas
of their homes, waving their shawls and" handkerchiefs in the
air, expressive of their regard and interest felt in the noble char-
acter of the 'Philadelphia Firemen.'
And think you as theyassed before them they failed to ap-
preciate such interest ?  ay.! many a noble heart in that, pro-
cession, as they met such encouragement on every hand from the
lovely and the fair, bounded with unspeakable ardor and joy,
and with;animpulse ready to brave any peril for those they loved.
And they walked proudly on thus cheered on their way by our

F
± t
l
"f
k
a
tfj
'
t

-S
S.
f
f
11
1
G
l

lovely daughters. Did they appreciate such interest in their
behalf? aye, and down many a rough, weather beaten, and peril
scared cheek, rolled the grateful tear as it welled up warm and
free from the noble heart, by the power of kindness touched.
Their route was a long one, traversing nearly the entire city,
but on they passed happy and gay allowing all to share their joy.
They had passed over all their route, but that portion of it lead-
ing them through Port Richmond, and when they reached here
the night was indeed far spent.. Still they kept on, and the af-
fair of pleasure would have ended peaceable enough, but as they
were returning, and about crossing the line dividing the district
from Kensington, (the bridge) they were assailed with a heavy
volley of bricks and stones, surely not quite so encouraging as
the waving of ladies handkerchiefs and shawls.
These usual missiles of the cowards were thrown in the por-
tion of the procession occupied by the 'Penn hose company.'
Some persons were struck by them, yet the most of them passed
over their heads doing but little harm, save to arouse the 'Buck
Darts' to immediate revenge for the onslaught. The volley pro-
ceeded from behind a large fence, where the hidden foe lay
concealed. But after hurling a second charge into the peaceable
procession, they fled from their concealment down towards the
Delaware. As they started up, Ringgold saw them, and dash-
ing out of line he sounded loudly the 'war cry.'
'Come on boys, never submit that, it's the work of the d-d
Greeks.  Come on, pitch in now, return the compliment. Hey,
hey, go in 'Buck Darts.' "
Darting forward, he sprang with a bound over the fence, fol-
lowed by a number of the most daring of his clan. Job Claw-
son, more peaceably inclined to-night, stepped out from the head
of'the company, and running hastily along the line of the pro-
cession, cried at the top of his voice--
'Come back boys, come back, don't go after the scamps and
disgrace yourselves with a fight to-night.  tay in line and let
them go.
But it seemed of little use, their blood was up ; some of them
were writhing under the pain of being struck by some of the
missiles, and though they honored Job, and would obey him in

;,
f

THE FIREMAN'S BRIDE.            71


72

THE FIREMAN'S BRIDE.

almost everything, yet about one half of the company ran poll
mell, over the broad field in pursuit of the cowardly Greeks.
And above all the noise the. bead of the drum, the shouts and
Indian like yells of the "Buck Darts,' Ringgold's voice of en'
couragement could be distinctly heard, leading them on to the
attack.  Soon the police force, dispatched especially by the
Mayor, began to make arrests along the line of the procession,
which they had dogged over the entire route, many of them far
away from their own beat. Like children they followed the mu-
sic. They were out in great force, and as it has often proved,
their very presence; the exhibition of the huge mark of office,e
mented no small degree of ill and restless feeling in, the breasts
of those composing the procession, who could ill brook the mor-
tifying thought of being dogged by such bantering hirelings of
. an imbecile Mayor.
They had arrested several on one pretence and another during
the commotion in the line of procession, caused by  the lawless
band of Irishmen behind the fence. They did not arrest the
disturbers of the peace, but those who were disturbed.
'Three groans ,for the Irish Police,'- saluted them harshly
from some young man more daring than his fellows in the lines.
It was answered by a renewed stampede of the starry gentle-
men, who succeeded in securing the offender of their immense
dignity. They were endeavoring to drag one away, who as yet
had took no part in the taunts thrown out, when Job Clawson
springing between them, requested there not to, take the man,
but a big burly officer seized Job by the.-neck, and exclairned-
',Ah my old fellow, you're one of 'em too.-you've got to go
along with me. Come along, we'll see if we can't stop this riot-
i0ng.' Ye noisy whelps-come along.'
'what do you arrest me for ? expostulated Clawson; 'I've
done nothing except trying to keep them in line peaceably-
what do you arrest me for ?'
' Yer lie, yer old rascal. You're one of them too what makes
a noise. I seed yer riotin', so come along now with the rest of
'em.'
'Well loosen your hold of my throat, and don't clinch me so

THE FIREMAN'S RIDE                 73
tight and I'll go with you. But I'm satisfied you can substantiate
o care ainst me. Take me before an Alderman, and give
mec a hearir.'
'No sir'ce  "e'l     H-
tioono si   ye'll see no alderman to-night, yer go to the sta-
on house now, and from there down to the Mayor's office, where
helf slp tn it, an' in the mornin'.he'll give you a hearin'
hisself. This is his express orders for all we catch to-night.'
'Deny a prisoner a hearing, I never heard of such a thing.
What is the law on the subject? Does it not allow us to be heard
before the nearest Alderman ?'
I don't know what the law is, an what it paint. I know er
my prisoner, an the Mayor wants to see yor hisself, that's al.-
come along without any more of yer grumbling or may be I wont
liscen to much more of it.'"
Job finally concluded it best to go peaceably with the ffi
and thus probably receive less of his ill will and hard treatmer.
Suffice it here, that with several others, he was locked up in the
station house. In the mean time, the battle was raging on the
banks of the Delaware between the 'oBuck Dats,' le  n by the
dauntless Jack Ringgold, and the ' sons of Killarney' led onb
the burly, athletic coal heater Donolon Rafferty.
'Firce and bloody grew the struggle. Stones and all sorts
ouge missiles few from both sides as they fought on the edge
of the river. Large sticks and clubs, broken from the fences of
the fields were brought into requisition by the ' Buck Darts'
with fearful telling effect, and many a brawny dark visiaged
Greek lay on the green sod bleeding and sore.
'Murther ! murther ! It's kilt intirely I am,' yelled many a
one, as the ' Buck Darts' closed in with them andlvlldte
one after the other to the ground i  d    and levelled them
' Hip, hip, hurrah ! By the soul of St. Patrick, ye d-d Spa1-
pees, come at me and I'le dale ye a sweetner with my sprig of
k.    , t    send ye wizzin into the middle of next week,
sakeing a patch for yer eye. Hip, hip.'
This was yelled in a tone of defiance towards Ringgold, who
had just torn the second half rail from the fence having lost his
first club in the struggle.
Jakpossessed a bodily frame tolerably well knit, he was not

a
3j

i
s"
.:,
;'
F
5 {{


74                 THE FIREMAN'S BRIDE.
over large in stature, but he was solid and sinewy. When he
struck a man he never failed to make an impression. Nor was
he wanting in skill, and of courage and daring we have seen
before, he had no lack.
His present antagonist, Donolon Rafferty, came up before him
like a huge ungainly Collossus. LHe stood some six feet four
inches, and stout and burly in proportion. His frame also seem-
ed all muscle and compactly knit, but he was slow in his actions.
For a moment, as the savage Irishman's rough voice fell on
Ringgold's ear, Jack glanced at his heavy athletic figure; and
as he now thought he had an -opportunity to av nge the blow.
with which Rafferty had waylaid him on Frankf rd Road, near
Queen street, with a shrill whoop, which for a moment discon-
certed Rafferty, he bounded forward, yelling-
"Then lay on Macduff,
And damned be he who first cries hold, enough!1'
Whirling the huge club about his head, he sprang like the en-
raged lion on his foe, and bringing it down with all the strength
he could command, he missed his aim, for Rafferty leaning aside
his head, caught the blow broadside on his shillaleh which made
both wince again with the pain it gave them in the wrists and
arm.
As they stood thus an instant glaring at each other savagely,
Rafferty made a sudden grasp for Ringgold's throat, but catch-
ing the movement he threw up his club again, and striking him
across the arms with it, he staggered off some paces from him ;
but coming up again hurriedly and eagerly, he brought poor Jack
a tremendous swipe ' athwart stern ship,' which lifted him clear
off the ground and fired him with very madness.
'Hell and furies, ye dam'd red-eyed imp,' cried Ringgold
smarting with pain, and again hurling his long club through the
air furiously, brought it do n so forcibly and quick on Rafferty's
neck, that he sank to the ground on his knees.
'Och, ye dam'd heretic, ye'd kill me ye would;' and flourish-
in his shillaleh, he tried' o rise, but before he could do so, the
active Jack followed up his advantage; dealt him another of the

THE FIREMAN'S BRIDE.                75
same sort a trifle higher, which levelled him quite to the round
and he began to cry lustily for mercy. qithgrn
Och! murther! murther ! It's klin me ye are,' and drop-
ping his club,ingold commencsweredplaying upon him with his
fits  T  hs ris orhep haswre
'Ye cowardly imp, ye waylaid me, did ye? Ye struck me in
the drk, did ye?' and then run. But ha, ha, I've caught ye at
last. Now I'll give ye a receipt in full for all I've ever received
from ye, ye Irish coward.'
And while the poor fellow groaned and begged for his life,
the maddrene R  ol plugged him well. The-balance of those
who had regained their feet, had in the meantime fled before the
conquering 'Buck Darts;' who left them manymementos in the
shape of bruises, black eyes, and bleeding noses, by which to re
member them, and their attack on the peaceable procession
Soon asRinggold heard of Clawson's arrest, he hastily repair-
ed with a friendyto the Station House, although he knew well,
thr ao   mayhee    who would like right well to get hold of
hm also. The place was closed, and well guarded with officers
and as Ringgold entered, he presented a ludicrous and indeed a
'rough and ready' appearance. His coat torn again, his face
scratched and bloody, and his pantaloon extremities indifferent-
y tucked into his boot-tops  He looked the impersonation of
the leader of a reckless and daring bandit.
He felt keenly for his friend Job Clawson, yet,just comin
out of the blood conflict with the 'Greeks,' het just coming
ture too far into the lion's den of the w e cared not to ven-
Clarence Clinton forward, to plead for his fellow memberien
Clawson.., Job
Clarenceknocked at the door; and after repeating the opera-
tion several times the lieutenant put his head out, and inquired
his wishes. He was answered that he wanted a hearing of the
charge or charges against Job Clawson who was now confined
in one of the cells. The lieutenant stepped out, closing the door
im wi     e greatest precaution. They feared an attack
on the station house, hence their care. Clarence asked to set
Clawson, but was promptly denied allcommunication with any
of the prisoners. 'But,' he urged, ' he should have a hearing.

fi
}


76                THE FIREMAN'S BRIDE,
Again he was reminded of the Mayor's ' especial orders' being
to ' allow none of the prisoners arrested that night a hearing, but
send them directly down to him!'
Still Clarence and Ringgold lingered, hoping yet to succeed
in their object of obtaining good old Job Clawson's release that
night. ,But they had not waited long before they heard the
shuffling and tread of many feet inside. ' The lieutenant opened
the door again, and the prison van then drawing up, the prison-
ers were conducted forth at midnight, each one guarded by two
officers, with all the dignity and stateliness and awe, as though
they were an oath-bound league of desperadoes or Venetian con-
spirators. In the midst of the line walked Clawson, head erect,
an eye of fire, and a heart of steel. As Jack caught sight, of
him, walking thus pinioned by the law, towards the prison van,
his heart filled with pain and grief, the big tears of anguish and
sympathy coursed down his rugged cheeks like rain-drops.
Springing in front of Job, he cried,
'My God, Clawson, my old friend, I cannot bear to see this.
Officer, take me and let him go home to his family. I have no
wife awaiting my return home; take me, and let my friend go
free ; he is innocent I know.'
He was pushed out of the way with the threat, that if he in-
terfered again he should be taken too.,
'My God ! take me-take me ; but don't take my friend,'
poor Ringgold cried, dashing the fast falling tears from his eyes.
In the confusion Clawson was hurried into the van before he
could speak a word. But as he placed his foot on the step to
ascend, Ringgold again caught a glimpse of him, and cried out,
'My God, Job ! if they will take you, good bye ; but keep up
your head, and in the morning we'll be on hand to do for you all
we can.'
'Good bye, Jack,' cried Clawson, as the van drove off; 'Cla-
rence look out for bail--good by.'
" All right-aye, aye-good bye,' saluted him in return; and
the van was driven rapidly away. Ringgold and Clarence turned
away with hearts heavy and sad. Proceeding slowly homeward,
they consulted how they should break the disagreeable intelli-
gence to Clawson's wife of his arrest. It was past midnight

THE FIREMAN'S BRIDE.                 77
when they reached his residence, and Mrs. Clawson, after wait-
ing and watching long, had retired; but they did not knock often
before she hurried to the door expecting to meet her husband.
But when she saw him not, and in his stead beheld Ringgold and
Clarence she started back from the door and trembled like the
frightened fawn. She knew them, but feared the worst. Clar
ence hastily relieved her fears by informing her that he believed
her husband was innocent of any crime, and that'in the morn-
ing they would procure bail and effect his release. This tran-
quilized her sorrow, and thanking them, bade them 'good night,'
and again they turned towards their homes, taking in their way
the hose house, to impart the result of their visit to the station
house to those members of the company who might still be there.
We need scarce dilate upon the surprise of all when they
heard that their loved and honorary member was thus hurried
away so soon after his arrest to appear before the Mayor.
Nor will we complain of the false and reckless swearing on
the part of the officers next day on the trial.  They were fully
exposed, their incompetence shown, and the ' Buck Darts' ably
defended by one of our young and rising lawyers, who is even
now an ornament to the ' Philadelphia Bar,' and destined yet to
outshine many of his present compeers. We are almost tempted
to give his name, for we feel proud of his noble and volunteered
defence of the right on that occasion.
Nor shall we speak of the just and glorious ease with which
the tables were turned in that trial, against some of the intelligent
and extremely officious guardians of the public peace, when it
was amply proven that they themselves were the actual disturbers
of the peace, and were so intoxicated and pugnacious at the time
that they could not tell what the arrests were made for. We do
not glory that some of them were in turn made to snuff the damp
uncongenial vapor of a prison cell, and anon when released from
'durance vile,' found to their chagrin and unspeakable dismay,
their occupation gone.
Oh no, but we will say ' three times three' for young lawyer
S., the American attorney, the gentleman, and scholar'; and we
doubt not, there are those who can testify that they were given
with a full heart and hearty will, when his legal ability and
matchless eloquence set the 'Buck Darts' free.


78                THE 1 FIREMAN'S BRIDE.

CHAPTER XV.
MOONLIGHT ON 'THE DEL AWARE-LOVE--THE RETURN-BETROTHAL
-THE HIDDEN FOE-DESPERATE E       CUNTER-TERRIBLE BLOW.
IT was a calm moon-light night, and the myriads of. twinkling
stars in the clear evening sky, reflected themselves in the mirror
like bosom of the glistning waters of the Delaware, as the tide
flowing easily up, undulating so gently that the crowded ship.
ping bristling along its waves, scarcely gave evidence of the
slightest motion. The lights of Camden city glimmered faintly
in the distance, and the church and cathedral spires of Philadel.
phia almost piercing the white clouds of the lovely summer eve,
glistened like silver in the noon tide rays of the burning sun.
All over the broad expanse, on the sleeping waters reposed the
same resplendant sheen of quiet light ; but it was varied slightly
on the smooth waters by gently moving shadows, which dotted
its bright surface like spirits of the enchanted deep.
They were pleasuring parties, sailing in the quiet evening on
the lovely Delaware.  And anon the gay-song and blithesome
laugh danced over the calm waters, taken up, joined and con.
tinued, until dancing and dancing away, they are lost in glad and
silvery echos in the far distance. But list, as the entrancing
strain, dear to every American's heart, floats out upon the waters
from a boat containing a happy company of lovers-
My country 'tis of thee,
Sweet land of liberty,
Of thee 1 sing ;
Land where my Father's died,
Land of the Pilgrim's pride,
From every mountain side,
Let freedom ring.

THE FIREMAN'S BRIDE.                    71)
My native country, thee-
Land of the noble, free-
Thy name I love;
I love thy rocks and rills,
Thy woods and templed hills,
My heart with rapture thrills
Like that above.
Let music swell the breeze,
And ring from all the trees
Sweet freedom's song ;
Let mortal tongues awake,
Let all that breathe partake ;
Let rocks their silence break-
The sound prolong.'
In the speechless rapture of the moment, the enchanted Ring.
gold rested listlessly on his oar, and drank in with eyes moistened
with joy, the delicious music of his loved Myria's voice as she
poured her soul into the lines of that patriotic song. And Clarence
dipped his oar softly, and his companion listened delighted as
the heart of the singer grew warm with the sterring eloquence
of 'Sweet Freedom's Song.'
But the boat now needed no guide, it floated gently up with
the easy movement of the tide, resting on the glistening waters
light and graceful as the noble swan.
But, oh, what exquisite, happy feelings glowed in the bosom of
Ringgold, as the music of his loved one's voice thrilled upon the
chords of his own soul, in harmony so soft and sweet. Never
had he experienced such a thrill of calm holy bliss before: 'twas
like the sudden breaking of a new heaven of joy in his breast,
and far from the reach 'of language to express. Therefore, un-
able to syllable even her dear name, be dropped his head on her
neck as he sat by her side, and shared the Elysian extacy in that
tranquility of soul, which is--
More than angel's tongues can tell
Or angel's minds conceive.'
We deem this a fitting moment to note particularly the excel
lent change, which the disposition and character, aye, and senti
ments and lauguage, too, of the daring Ringgold has undergone.
Not that the nobility of his soul has been lost, but many of the


80

THE FIREMAN'S BRIDE.

rougher features of his disposition, errors of a neglected and de-
ficient education, and coarse manner of expression have been
softened down and polished, by the etiquette and gentle love
training of the versatile and accomplished Myria. And love and
-associations has done it all. Kindness has made the hardy Jack
the apt and willing pupil, beneath the gentle training of his
tutor ; and thus gradually he has partaken of her sentiments,
her hopes, her high resolves, her noble inspiration, and even a
better language in a word, though at first so widely diverse, yet
they are now both of the same mind.
They were now leisurely floating up the easy flowing river, and
as Myria concluded her song, she called upon her companion,
Emily Hope, to likewise favor them with a ditty..-
'Come Emily,' said she, 'let us hear how your voice will sound
on the water. lIm told that a good song on the water, sounds
much better than any where else.'
'It may be so,' replied the youthful Emily, diffidently ; ' but
my voice is weak, and then-I believe it to be more injurious to
sing in the open air, than in the concert room. Not only so,
but I would rather listen, than sing to night, Myria.'
Ha ! ha!' laughed Myria gaily, without noticing the compli-
ment -which concluded her companions' speech. ' For the real
enjoyment of song, give me nature's own concert room, with the
calm waters for my stage-the clear heavens for my sounding
board-the bright moon for my chandelier, and the smiling and
applauding stars for my audience. Then, oh then, I can be
happy ! But come, Emily, I cannot do all the singing to-night,
we must hear you.'
' cannot to-night, Myria.'
'Sing, and Clarence will help you. Or, lead us in something
we're acquainted with, and we'll help you,' spoke Ringgold at
length, half rising from his reclining posture on his fair Myria's
neck.
Well, if you insist on it, I'll try,' said Emily. And soon from
out that little boat, there was a loud and graceful chorus sound-
ed which started the quiet waters into ripples, and sounded in
gay echosfar off to the shore.
Thus they whiled several happy hours away, in their pleasant

THE FIREMAN'S BRIDE.

moonlight sail on the quiet Delaware, and it was almost midnight
ere they quit their boat for home.
Clarence and Emily getting out first, walked leisurely away;
Ringgold and Myria stepped, out, and after securing the boat,
followed at a slower pace. Once or twice, Emily and Clarence
looked back, but seeing them  coming, walked slowly on.  But
slower and slower grew the pace of the thought absorbed happy
lovers. Ringgold enraptured, was now discoursing love to the
happy listening Myria as he never spake before. At his soul
gushing eloquence, Myria was surprised and delighted.  He
offered her his hand, and was accepted.
Still they paced easily and leisurely along, all absorbed in the
unspeakable bliss of betrothal.
Once Ringgold looked up and caught a glimpse of their com-
panions, just as they turned off the river road into another street.
He spoke to Myria, and they quickened their pace to overtake
them ere they reached home.
They had walked a couple of squares, and were passing be-
neath the broad shadow of the ever memorable 'Elm Tree of
Peace,' when a rough murmuring voice caused Ringgold to look
around.
'The d-d native spalpeen, he's been sailing to-night wid his
gal; and she's been singing' to him, the wench. I'de like to
spile their beauty, I would, wid my sprig of shillaleh and sham-
rock so green,' grumbled Donolon Rafferty, for it was he, but
raising his voice slightly, he concluded his speech with a slight
degree of his own peculiar melody, actually singing the last line ;
and then, stepping out from behind the tree, he flourished his
club in a boisterous and murderous manner about lRinggold's
head.
Myria was not a coward, as we know, but the suddeness with
which the attack was made, caused her to start. She uttered
but one shriek of alarm, and then she was herself again, com-
posed and ready for her own defence. Jack backed off several
paces from his brawny assailant, who followed him up closely,
flourishing his club in his very face. Once he commanded him
to desist or he would shoot him down.
Ye would, would ye, ye dam'd spalpeen-take that then to
help ye a little-' and the Greek made a terrible dash at Ring-
gold's head with his club. But JacK, quick in his movements as
the cat, stepped aside, and drawing out his pistol presented it in
the rough face of his savage foe, with the words--
'Now, sir, I do not wish your blood on my hands, but if you
do not leave me pass without further molestation, I will surely
give you the contents of this-'
Rafferty's bronsed face, blanched even in the darkness, and in
an instant his courage left him. He backed off from the ugly
looking revolver, stuttering-

gY

81


82               THE FIREMAN'S BtIDE.

' I-I, ask-beg yer pardon sir. I believe I've made some
mistake here, sir-yer a gentleman sir, and not the man I took
ye for. Don't shoot, and I'll not make such a mistake again.'
' Then right about face,' said Jack, assuming a marshal-like
air ; ' and locomote on a straight line for Richmond, fast as your
feet will carry you. Ready ! leave-' he concluded, as Rafferty
turned to run.
They watched him until he darted round a corner out of sight,
and then they moved rapidly on toward their home. Ten minutes
walk brought them to Beach street, but as they proceeded, they
did not see the revengeful figure of a man following them closely,
and at intervals darting into open alley's along the way, until at
length without detection, the distance grew shorter and shorter
between them. Several times he made terrible efforts to strike,
but certain movements of Ringgolds', induced the assassin to
think he was suspected ; and then he would dart up an alley, and
after remaining quiet for some minutes, would steal forth again
and crouch after the lovers like the vengeful tiger.
At length, they had gained their home. The door opened -
Myria disappeared, and Jack just entered as the sound like the
explosion of a cannon echoed through the house, and through
the neighborhood most dolefully.
'Gracious ! what is that ? ejaculated Myria, as turning she
saw the door panels shattered from top to bottom. Jack turned
also, and starting with alarm, cried-
'Can it be possible that villain has followed us after all, and
done this?'
Jack had rightly suspected, for though, when he opened the
door he saw no one, Rafferty had followed them closely, and as a
last chance, ran and struck with all his strength as Ringgold en-
tered. The door was just closed in time to catch the full force
of the blow, and was shattered into splinters, beneath the Irish-
man's ponderous club.
CHAPTER XVI.
WEDDING OF MYRIA AND RINGGOLD-GREAT PREPARATION-MAR-
RIAGE FESTIVAL--FATAL SECURITY-THE INCENDIARY---
ALARM-FIRE-ALMOST SUFFOCATION-NARROW        ESCAPE OF
RINGGOLD AND HIS BRIDE FROM     THE BURING BUILDING
--DESTRUCTION OF THE BLAKELY BUILDING--FALLING WALLS
-MAN BENEATH     THE RUINS-DONOLON RAFFERTY-FATAL
RETRIBUTION--CONCLUSION.
IT was an evening of great rejoicing, that witnessed the pecu-
liar and lavish preparations to celebrate the wedding of Myria
Blakely and Jack Ringgold. In fact, several days were employ-
ed to renovate and refit the rooms of the company, at their house.

THE FIREMAN'S BRIDE.                83
First, the upholsterer and cabinet maker were called in, tc re-
pair and polish the furniture, chairs, &amp;c.,-then the painter's
skill was brought in lavish requisition; the room was freshly
painted, pictures and other ornaments were retouched, so that
.on the evening of the marriage festival, the place was indeed
beautiful to see. A fine new carpet covered the floor, the fur-
niture renewed, glistened in the bright gas light, and the old
pictures, relics of the. company, dazzled again in their regilt
frames.
Myria laughed heartily when the eccentric Jack proposed to
celebrate their wedding, within the grotesque hose house. But
she concluded at length to be married there.
As she entered, leaning on the arm of her lover, she appeared
lovely indeed. Attired in white, with a light veil thrown loosely
over her head and reaching down almost to the ground. In her
jet glossy hair, two white rose buds reposed, and these, except-
ing the ring, were the only ornaments she wore.
Jack was dressed in black, save his gloves and vest, and when
he reached the hose house, he arrayed himself in his fire cape
and hat, which added to his appearance a beautiful contrast. The
rest of the company did the same.
At one end of the room, a handsome pair of American flags,
borne by a large bronsed eagle, hung suspended immediately
above Ringgold and his bride, At the opposite end of the room,
hung in a heavy rose wood frame, the portrait of America's glory,
Washington, as if smiling on the happy scene.. On one side, a
large picture of an old Indian, a noble representative of the poor
red man, looked from the painted wall in grim seriousness; while
immediately opposite, William Penn, the peace loving Quaker,
spread his hands in tranquil treaty beneath the noble elm, for
the lands of Pennsylvania.
All were waiting, and when the minister entered, they arose
to their feet, and welcomed him thus with a respectful inclination
into their midst. He advanced to the' hymenial altar, beneath
the floating flags, and turning calmly, looked over the assemblage
wilh a smile of approbation and pleasure. Then as he raised
his eyes to heaven, and spread his hands over them in prayer ;
each head dropped in silent veneration and respect, to the glowing
petition offered in their behalf. As he concluded the benediction,
he turned, and in a few words and an impressive manner, encir-
cled Ringgold and'Myria with the golden girdle of the marriage
vow. But as they smiled fondly on each other and stepped aside,
another pair kneeled suddenly at the altar, and still the cere-
mony went on.
'Yes Clarence, take her, and be to her a husband as I have
been a father,' said old Job Clawson, as he dashed away a teal
of joy,.and smiled with delight as Clarence Clinton approached
with his lovely betrothed.


84               THE, FIREMAN'S BRIDE.
And as they stood before the minister, the. youthful Emily
Hope, though happy in her choice, rested her gloved hand in his,
and blushing answered timidly to the words of the sacred con-
tract which made her the willing wife of the mechanic author,
Clarence Clinton.
Emily, by the death of both her parents was early left an or-
phan. But she soon found a home with the noble fireman, Job
Clawson, who, having no children, loved her as a tender father.
And although her union with Clarence was sudden to him, yet he
entrusted her freely into the care of his friend, because he knew
he would prove to his adopted, all that a husband should.
That night, Clinton and his bride reposed serenely within the
peaceful enclosure of Clawson's home ; who declared that he
could not yet give Emily up entirely, but that they must at least
pass their honey moon with him.
Ringgold and Myria repaired to her father's house on Beach
street. But alas! their slumbers were. fated to be far less secure,
than that of their young friends ; for, far past the hour of mid-
night,:and when all within the quiet precincts of the Blakely
mansion were locked in. silent sleep, the incendiary's torch was
stealthily applied beneath them, and ere they were aroused, the
subtle element was circling them within his fiery folds with fright-
ful threatning glare.:
The. heavy atmosphere of the. dark cloud-rifted midnight
seemed .all in ablaze, and soon a general alarm was: loudly
sounded by 4he faithful old sentinel, the State House bell. Thou-
sands of the hardy sons: of flane,:the city firemen, hurried with
their apparatus; to the spene of disaster.
The,'Penn; bays':being eo near, were among the first on the
spot, and. great indeed was their surprise to find the well known
Blakely mansion sheeted in flames ; for it was yet scarce an hour
since a number of, them were. engaged in the pleasing task of
giving their fellow member Ringgold, and his bride, a bridal ser-
enade. For some moments they scarcely knew how to act, so
great was their surprise. But knowing that their friends must
still be within, they hastily set about to save them, and loudly the
cry went up-.                                 ..
'A ladder, boys, a ladder. We must save those inside that
house.
Presently a stout ladder was leaned against the second story
window, but just as it struck the window sill, a window of the
third story was thrown up, a:d Orson Blakely with his son call-
ed for assistance. In a moment, another ladder was cast up against
the burning house, the parent placed his son upon the ladder,
and then stepped out himself.i Both descended rapidly-alarm
and solicitude depicted vividly upon their blanched faces as they
cast anxious glances towards the second story of the burning
house.

N

THE FIREMAN'S BiUDE.                85
A fireman was at the' window, with a blow he dashed the sash
away and sprang in; a moment of intense suspense ensued, and
another leaped into the room. They were Clawson and Clinton.
Another moment elapsed, and then, in the ,centre of a dense
volume of smoke Clarence appeared at the window; and descend-
ing the ladder, bore in his arms. the almost inanimate -form of
Myria. Every breath was hushed in anxious expectancy, until
Job re-appeared and sprang out on the ladder with Ringgold
clinging to him. Then one wild shout rent the air, and tears of
sympathy and joy glistened in many an eye.
They were carried through the crowd to the nearest drug store,
where with prompt attention they soon revived. But they had
been well nigh suffocated-overpowered to helplessness by the
subtle influence of the smoke which so suddenly filled the.room.
When Jack came to himself, he clasped Clawson warmly by the
hand, and from the depth of his soul, said--
'My God Job ! I owe you a debt now which I fear I can never
repay. You have saved my life-.I was almost gone, and could
neither help myself nor my wife. And you, Clary,' he continued
addressing Clinton warmly, ' God bless you! you saved my wife,
and I know she will bless you.all the days of her life,' be con-
cluded, gazing with unutterable affection in the face of his yonng
bride of whom the fire fiend threatened to rob him so early.
Myria could say but little, but her tears of heartfelt gratitude
amply rewarded Clarence for his gallantry in saving.her fromzthe
burning .house.
Her glad parent and brother embraced her by turns and gave
utterance to her joy in thanking her deliverer for her safety. .
In the midst of their joys they were .startled by.the ground
rocking beneath their feet, and in the next instant a tremendous
report like the bursting of a powder magazine fell on their ears.
'What in the world.is. that?' ejaculated Orson.
'Mercy !' shrieked Myria, :trembling.
' The_ walls havefallen!' said Clawson after a pause.
' That is it,' joined Clinton, and. started for the-street.
The walls of the burning house had fallen with a crash, smoth-
ering the fire quite, out ard. filling :the' street .and neighborhood
with dense clouds. of .dust; leaving darkness resting upon every
thing without, like a pall. But amid all, what - is that confused
and .startling murmur ?
''A man under the ruins.'
And while the scene is filled up 'with confusion by the ringing
of carriage bells, calling their members together, and the hurry-
ing to and fro of spectators, many fall to work digging out the
unfortunate man from the burning ruins.


THE FIREMAN'S BRIDE.

Bricks and rubbish fly in every direction before the active hu-
mane fireman, impelled by the warmest impulses of the human
breast.
Half an hours' toil brings them to the fatal spot where lies the
buried man. He is reached, but he is dead, and dreadfully char-
red by the hot bricks which covered him. They drag him forth
and carry him to the light that they may recognise him.
The dead man was Donolon Rafferty. Fatal retribution'! It
was he who watching Ringgold so closely, determined on a cow-
ard's revenge, and applied the torch to the Blakely mansion,
whither he had tracked Ringgold on the night of his wedding.
He fired the premises and then retired a short distance to
chuckle over his accomplished revenge. But his revengeful joy
was of short duration, for venturing too near, the walls fell upon
him and he was buried beneath the ruins.
Thus are the vicious often ensnaredin their own net.
Dennis McFlinn is now in Penitentiary for stealing, and Patrick
McGinnis was discharged from  the police force, for an assault
and battery upon a man whom heundertook to arrest.
Orson Blakely was partly of English, and partly of Spanish
origin. His lady, Mrs. Blakely, was a beautiful Creole, born in
the sunny Isle of St. Jago de Cuba. Her death, scarce five
years after their marriage, was mourned by her companion who
dearly loved her. In the year 18-, he became somewhat en-
tangled with the slave traffic, and by the vigilance of the Ameri-
can government against the curse, he was partially detected and
pursued, as we showed in our first chapter. Hence his flight for
protection to the Jew. But in the suffering of almost death, and
so long an absence from his beloved children, has he not attoned
fully for the crime.
'What more shall we say?  The William Penn hose carriage
is still the beauty of* the Eighteenth Ward. Job Clawson is
still an honorary member, and much beloved by the company.
Clarence Clinton loves Emily his wife, and still finds occas-
sional leisure from his daily business, to write for the press of.
his native city.
Charles Blakely, Myria's brother, has gone to California,
where he has married; and often writes to his sister and parent
of his brilliant prospects in the land of gold.
Jack ' Ringgold, the eccentric but noble hearted fireman, is
-contented and happy with Myria his bride.

THE END.

86


  
             
         
       
   
