
    ----CITATION----
        Ritner, William D.. Juan, the White Slave, and the Rebel Planter's Daughter .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC7595
    ----FULL TEXT----
         
      
         
            Juan, the white slave, and the rebel planter's daughter 
            
               00

Q.1T
THE
WHITE SLAVE
AND THE
A STIRRING STORY OF SLAVERY, SECESSION, SUF.
FERING, AN) REVENGE-REVEALING THE
DEEP TREACHERY OF THE GREAT
SOUTHERN REBELLION.
BY W. D. R.
Author of The Jeweler's .Daughter," "T TheFireman. Bride,"
The Knights of the Golden Circle,"'etc.
PRICE, 25 CENTS.
PHILADELPHIA:
PUBLISHED BY BARCLAY &amp; CO
No. 602 ARCH STREET.
1865.


! 0

Daring abduction of Beatrice by Rebel Desperadoes-her fearless rescue.
Entered according to the act of Congress, in the year 1865, by
BARCLAY &amp; CO.,
An the Clerk's Office of the District Court of the United States in and for '.
Eastern District of Pennsylvania.

I"

jI'

PREFACE.

READER, in this the eighty-fifth year of American Independence,
we are suffering from the terrible effects of the greatest and most
fearful crisis through which this nation has ever passed; a crisis
induced perhaps by several causes, but chiefly, all will admit, by
that base bone of continual contention-" Southren Slavery;" be-
neath the 'final. cultination,-of the angry agitation of which the
nation has raved, and reeled, and staggered like a. strong giant
drunk, with very madness; aye macdness in the disunion fiend has
ruled. already, too long;, and the insane convulsions aiid internal
throes of republican liberty-the hope of the world-have been;
during the fiery ordeal, indeed fearfully severe and painful.
How careful then will be the man who has the welfare of his
dear country at heart,- that by any meanshe does not add greater
distraction to the dangers already quite, sufficient for the govern-
ment safely to bear.  That by theoretic speculation merely on a
subject that has already proved.a sword to separate very friend,
he doesnot add still greater distraction to her distress.  It is with
this care, this innate feeling of regard for the lasting welfare of
our own native-land, that we have penned the history of strange
vicissitudes, suffering, 'and wrong, as, comprised on the pages of the
White Slave;-which, indeed, is no ideal dream; no fanatical
phantorp of a speculative theory; but the careful words of sober,
serious, and substantial truth, shaded and'tinged indeed at inter-
vals with the roseate coloring of the seeming improbabilities of
romance though they be. Yet we flatter ourselves, that if'calmly
.  ulled, they will shadow forth at -least one of the 'several causes
of our national domestic difficulties.
Juan Mendeza   met with at the state capitol of South Carolina,
Columbia,.where he,-unsolicited, revealed to me the fact that he
was a natural born slave, which surprised me beyond measure, for
he was a fine, intelligent looking man, of about twenty-four years
of agie,  with hair dark, quite straight, and less' curling than my

*1'.

Al

6


own; features as regular and of the Italian cast; and skin as fair,
as white as the purest Caucasion.
. I could not at first believe that a man so white, and of such fair,
beautiful proportions, could be retained in bondage under the free
government of Anierica, even though born a slave; and when I
expressed my doubts of his African lineage, he grew quite excited;
starting forward with considerable warmth, he hissed:
"Look into my eyes."
"Well,--" said I, calmly, after contemplating them a moment.
"Do you not observe the bluish tinge through the whites of
them ?"
"Very slightly-" I answered, musingly, and with an inclination
to impart, if I could, some word of encouragement to the poor serf.
"And look at my hand, see that fearful color marking, though
faintly, the root of each nail of my fingers, 'tis but a slight tinge,
but alas, the mark though it be occasioned by but a single drop of
African blood, is sufficiently indellible .to prove fatal. Though I
be seven-eighths tviAte, of the purest Caucasion, and oneighth
African, yet anjIexcluded from all affinity with my white brothers,
impaled with the aown-trodden sons of the negro race- and com-
pelled to remain a slave."
And as hecontinued to recoitto me the bitter wrongs he' en-
lured, vehemently vowing with upliftfed hands, that if ever he en-
countered the author of his cruel destiny, he would certain as-
sassinate him. Though my soul recoiled at the sound of the seem-
ing unnatural vow of parricidal vengeance, yet I could not sup-
press the train of' new thoughts the fearful oath suggested,"'and in
spite of myself, grew deeply interested in the wronged and 'justly
excited slave..
And so, without the least extenuation of malice, have I written
out the history of his bitter life, in unison with the spirit of the
.story as I received it from his own lips. Hoping therefore it may
exert a due share of influence in correcting, if possible, our na-
tional fault; and that, by the voluntary and peaceable avoidance
of it altogether, finally avert the sure and terrible consequences
of crime that' as a nation we may forever remain the favored of
heaven, the hope and glory of all lands, I dedicate to the cause
of public morals the conservative lesson inculcated in the faithful
history of the WHIT SLAVE,
THE AUTHOR.

It

4

PRnaAeC.

JIUA N.
Oft'
THE WHITE SlAVE.
CHAPTER L
GYER wa." fHuon," the peasants reply to the countess in the play
of ' Love" rendered with more thrilling effect on the boardsof -'"oka
Drury," than, by the youthful Tragedian, Juan. We will not say
"the Theatre was crowded from pit to dome," yet the Parquette,
family and dress circle and boxes, were filled with the "Elite 'and
Fashion" of Philadelphia. Juan was youthful, scarce thirty years
of age, but of ripe and elegant proportions, he was tall and manly,
person regularly and classically developed; his features pf the purest
[tallian mould,with eyes of glassy jet that in their dazzling seemed
peircing with an all subdueing magnetism,.while the dark masses of
his rich flowing hair dallied i luxuriant fulness with hiswell formed
neck and shoulders.      a   or he was gifted by generous nature
with all the finest requisites of mind, figure and voice, to appear from
the stage with the most attractive and splendid effect.
His delineation of the character of "Huoni'"so well adapted. to
his capacity, was rendered with such chaste force an4  self qxaltqd
power," that the audience hung spell-bound upon his delivery of ty
following beautiful.lines;     I
-Thyself--that towerest above thy station-.
Rank that excels its wearer doth degrade.
Riches'impoverish that divide respect.
Oh, to be cherished one's isef alone;
To owe the love that cleaves to us
To nought which fortune's summer-wioter-gives er takes
To know that while we wear the heart and mind,
Feature and formn high'heavm~ euddwed, 'is with,'!
Let the storm pelt us, pifair weather warm,
We shall be loved! King from theirtllronescast down
Have blessed their fAte. tlt they were valued for
Themselves, and not their stations. when some knee
That hardly bowed )o them-In pleiitude,
Has kissed thedust before them, stripped of all;
1 110acting companionfor the evening was in evey accomplishmt
ais exact counterpart, and gave her lines in reply with equal dignity
and ease.


18                     .-JUAN OR,
Among the charmed audience there was one, who, envious of his
passion, thought him in truth, in love with the beautiful Cecelia, and
while with her parents she admired his lofty eloquence, she longed
for the blissful moment when from the depth of his full soul, and alone
lie would breathe in her willing ear-the same impassioned sentiments
of self-sacrificing love. She was the favorite daughter of Antonio
Capello, a man of wealth and aristocratic ease, and of Spanish A mer-
ican birth. Having accumulated a good degree of wealth in the land
where cruel magnificence, slavery and misery seem twin born, he
now lived in Philadelphia a retired gentleman. His daughter the
beautiful Beatrice was beloved not only for her beauty, but also her
oodness of heart, and man  excellencies of mind and character.
She was young and surroundd with almost Queenly wealth, with
everything to attract and  lease. She was courted, flattered and
carressed by the noblest of e land.
It was late at night, and the streets of the city were well nigh
aeserted, silence prevailed, save at intervals, when a hasty carriage or
iaise rattled over the pavement, and the quick footstep of an
o  assional passenger fell upon the ear. The theatres and other
pla es of amusement were closed for the night, and the swal'ms of
plea ure-seeker's which they poured forth had time to reach their
- om s,
The select soiree of the proud Beatrice Capello had passed pleas .
antly away, and the favored few,,who had been admitted to net
society, were n6w taking their leave of her one by one, and sauntering
into tie streets. Two alone lingered after the rest had gone, an
these were among the most favored guests of Signor Antonio Capello
and -his lovely daughter.
Sinclai lJuval ad long been intimate with the family to which
he had some time before introduced Juan, his bosom friend; and as
Sinclair was held ih high estimationby both Beatrice and her father,
Juan, for his friend's sake, was'regarded rather as an old acquaintance
*than' one whom the scarcely knew.
The two friends in ered after the rest had gone, but they too, at
last took their leave, ind arm in arm.sauntered along the street. To
have seen them, one would not have recognized in their thoughtful
features, the two gay young rmen who an hour before attracted the
attention of the entire party, by- their elegant address, ready and
sparkling wit., Juan had.appeared.that evening in the characterof,
- Othello," and he may have been fatigued, or was now relapsing
into the strange cilmsucceeding his almost unapproachable person.
ification of the loving though jealous, moor. It was -one of his
happiest efforts. Flowers and boquets greeted him from the elite
and fashion occupying .the, dress cicle and boxes. But now his
gayety had passed away, and a sort-of pleasing seriousness possessed
the heart of Juan and his friend.
"Othello's active occupation seemed really to be gone. For soe
tin neither spoke but walked on in silence all abused in their own
-reflectigns.

%  /  , -

I

I

aWhat ails you Juan?" At length spoke Sinclair, breaking iM
upon his friend's meditations.
 "I was thinking," Juan replied with a smile.
"Very probably, for I believe that every rational being thinks,
but may I ask what weighs upon your mind, giving to your every
look and action a tinge of melancholy."
Well really Sinclair, I scarcely know myself. But somehow
the look which our friend Capello gAve me, as I took my leave, calls
up early associations, and it seems to me,-that I have seen his-face
before."
"Indeed!"
"1Yes Sinclair, it is even so; although when or where, I cannot
tell. It must have been many years ago, however-perhaps when I
was-a poor forsakein orphan."
"!Juan, Juan, tell me about that, when you were tho orphan you
have so often mentioned in my hearing."
"Not to-night, Sinclair, if you please," said Juan shaking his
- head sadly,. "for the recollections Capello's strange look called up
are ssad enough without recuring to the details of my earl history;
you know that I am an orphan-but the wrongs I endured, the wrongs
which killed my mother, and which I have since sworn to revenge.
if heaven has not saved me the- task-you know nothing of them
Sinclair, and I hope you never will."
"Pardon me Juan for (fuestioning you, I was not aware of the
deep wounds on your bosom, and am sorry to make you sadder than
before."
"Yes, yes," Juan exclaimed vehemently, "I am -sad, and unless I
seek some stirring scene, some powerful excitement, the melancholy
of this night will stay by me for days. ItAis what I cannot shake off
without assistance."
"Then I will remain with you Juan; and we ,will seek some
diversiontogether, and I will help youto get rid of your melancholy
thoughts."
"Thanks, good Sinclair; but what do you propose?"
"You are fond of play?"
"It is an amusement, although I seldom play for money, except
though courtesy."
"I know Juan. But the game alone excites you. If you woulJ
forget your own thoughts, you cpuld do no better than spend the
-     remainder of the night-or at least a part of it at-P-ll-r's. The
company there is always of the first class, the players generous, ant
the wine superb. What do you say I"
"I accept your proposition;" Juan replied quickening his step

A

*

17

1 0

Ta WiTE SLAVE


ia

JVAM OR.

. CHAPTER 1.1
TE GAMXSTEIS.
. Twerty minutes more broug*t our two friends to o'0e of the most
%ashionable gaming Saloons o Philadelphia. And though the hour
was late, there was a large number- engaged at play. Spanish and
Itallian amateures, Englis sportsmen, and German spectators, were
mingled with American dandies, black legs and artists. All appeared
upon the same footing there, all moved by one common impul, the
passion for gaming. Juan was soon engaged with an experienced
player named Livingston, while Sinclair together with several stran-
gers stood by, watching the progress of the game.
Although but a moderate player, yet Juan was unusually skillful
at cards, bein quick at observation, and accustomed to all thetricks
of the age.  n the resent occasion, however he had his match..
His adversary played with great coolness and precision, turning his
wholeattention to the game.' Juanat-first played carelessly, butnghen
game aner game closed in favor of his adversary, he began to pay
more attention, though he played with the same coolness as before.
His fortune, however did not charge. Livingston continued to win
from him until he had but a' single bill left in his pocket. This .Juan
staked, played for, and lost.I
"6Lawrence Livingston," he exbaaimed fyou are inluck to-night:
rou have won from me more than two-huidred dollars, and I have'nt
ime to stop, and recover my losses. - Another time however-"
"It is not late.", Politely interrupted Livingston.
"Not late,J know, but you must excuse me for to-iight," began'
Juan, but arinmur of dissatisfaction among the speqtators checked
him, and heeast' a meaning glance at Sinclair Duval.- Sinclair
understood hini, and quietlyslippedabankbillintohis hands unobserved
by the spebtators. Juan glanced at it hastily and a strange smile
layed about his lips, he saw it was more than equal in value to all
he hadlost  "If thenJ am to be revenged on you to-niht, Lawrence
Livingston," said he gaily "I must  it at one stroke, there's any
stake."
"Good!"- exclaimed Livingston, and the cards were again
arranged. The game was short, but played with the greatest cool-
ness ahd attention.
"You have lost" observed Juan carelessly, " are you satisfied
now-
"Ha, 'ha, you are very 'kind," returned Livingston, " but surely -
you will not leave me so--'?'
"Still at your service." Said Juan shuffling the cards.
"9The stake,," suggested Livingston.
"That same bill seems lucky one," the other observed with a
anile, "if you have no objections."-

I

II

Tu WITS SLAVE

A9

Not the least."  Once more they played, and once more Juan

von..
"Confound it, had I not played a diamond when it should have
been a trump-but never mind, we'll try the game once more.'
S -"Livigston n.w studied the game.until t egpiratior p out
upon his brow; played with the utmost caution; watched every
move of his adversary as. the tiger watches hia prey; but 41l vain.
A third time Juan wasinlucl l  ymivingstoasild noi a word,. but
wiping the sweat from;his fteheAd, pro4edad to shpi$l the Car.
- "The same stake again 1", asked Juan.,
Livingston made no reply save a slight gesture of affirmation, and
again the play went on.,
aga"The devil is in your fingers to-night,' muttered Livingston
forcing a smile as.still another gm0 wet over to Juan's favqr.
"Only a momentary change ol fortune, you will-recover in a shoqt
time."
Again they played, and agai  Livingston lost. Ie. became
agitated at last, and played like an iIane  an; clutching th'cars
with desperate energy, and keepinghis blood-sot.eyes flidupon
the game. Juan on theotherha; was ic     nd self-poesedhe
appeared to regard his astonishing success with utmost indiffierene.
A group of admiring spectatorssoQn gathered around them, greatly
interested in the progress of the play.
"My dear Sir," said Juan at length becoxhng unea syat the des-
perate manner in which his 4versary played. "M ear Sir, is it
not time to finish for to-night?  noAtheretime-"
"Play on, play on!" interrupted Livintg#on in a h    ny voice.  d
they did play on, an4 i.a half hour, a_ rsducedhis opponeoit to
his last dollar. For a moment, as Livinton with his ashyh
compressed, and his pale brow resting on', s hands, stared atte
cards on the table, a death-like silence prevailed.
"Let us away," Sinclair whispered, touching Juan unperceived
upon , the shoulder.,.
Juan glanced at his friend, then at Livingston and finally at' the
pile of money he had'won.
,Sinclair what shall I do I" he murmured, passing his hand
across his brow." Here have I been playing for more than two hours,
scarce knowing what I was about, I played for amusement, never
once thinking that I have well nigh rueind this poor fellow, in fact
when I look at the money here, it seems that I have been dreaming.
Tell me have I won this fairly 1
The latter sentence alone caught the ear of Livingston, who
started up as if a sudden thought just flashed through his brain.
"Fair play I" ho echoed with a ghastly smile, "I never lost like
that with an honest player."
"Sir !" cried Juan, as the hot'blood mounted his brow.
Livingston was desperate. While all the spectators started back
with a sort of savage delight, he sprang forward gazing fieteely at
Juan, exclaimed-

H


I*

JVAN Oi,'
--You heard my words, ad present heard then.,
Jtan had become more calm, though his features al peared a shade
paler than usual.
"Yes Sir," He said politely, but added with a sarcastic smile,
1i herd your words; and beg to know when you will deign to explain
them to me
"At any time, the sooner the better." Replied Livingston fiercely.
"-Here is my address, I prefer taking difficulties coolly." Juan
answered, extending' him hiscard. Then'-turning on his heel, he
left the saloon in company with his friend, Sinclair Duval, who
flueried.'
Juan yop are not going to fight the poor fellow ?"
"Why not ?"
"Why not f" he is beside himself, desperate. Return the poor
.vil his moneyy "
"Sinclair Duval," Exclaimed Juan reproachfully. "You too are
beside yourself, are you not? Consider 'he has insulted me, I cannot
retreat' if I would, as it is,-I pity him, for I am confident he will
lose not only his money, but probably his life also."
"Be not too confident, for I am told Lawrence Livingston is an
able duellist."
"Be that as it may, I shall attempt the exercise; will you stand
S  me",,I
if"you are determined to do so, I will.",
I am; and Sinclair, were he but fiftymiles South of this, I would
aot wait until to-morro*, to-run him thrOugh."
"Then'you trill meet him?"
"I will, and with his choice of weapons; I care not what th.m
are, pistols or sword"

11

run wRIr'gsLAvs.

21

CHAPTER III
Tr MDUM
On the day following, and occording to private appointment,
Juan, and the exasperated and savage Livingston, with a seledti6n
of some half dozen blacklegs, met in a reserved ro6n4 'donnebtd
with the gambling hell, for the duel. Every avenue leading tohe
appartment was tightly closed, windows shut, and'the do6rg'secutely
locked. The gas was weakly turned on, giving a pale, sombre
light to the murderous scene in the silent room.
Sinclair Duval loved his frier d, and entered the place with a
shudder. Even Juan betrayed less ardor 'for the strife than he 'exhib-
ited on the evening previous. He seemed less excited, more cool.
but firm. On the qther hand Livingston was even more passidiate
and revengeful, than at the' first, and seemed anxious to commence
the deadly conflict. In the course of twenty minutes the qi"et
preliminaries being efected, at the given signal they stood in their
places and crossed their swords, Juan more collected than his wine
and anger-heated adversary, commencedon the defensive, as though
merely going through the exercises w th a companion; while Liv-
ingston crossed and thrust with an' angry. energy, contrasting
strangely with the more careless action of his antagonist.
For some time theirrglistening 'weapons wound about'leJ' other
so to speak, with that grace and dexterity which bespeaks the-accom-
plished s ordsman. iuan hardly pressed by his foe, handled his
weapon ith greater rapidity and force, while his eye flashed with
a strange and terrible meaning. The two blades clashed and grated
against each other in and quick succession, when Livingston made a
masterly thrust -and grazed his antagonist's side.
" A hit," muttered the surrounding group.
' A mere scratch," said Juan with a fiendish smile, "take him
aWy, or there will be something worse ipa moment."
lie now changed his mode'f defence into a furious 'and skilfi
attack, thrustind' with s
a     thrusting with such precision and'rapidity, that Livingston
was obliged to fall back; Juan darted' forward,aid with a skilful
,movement, wretched his antagonist's weapon from his grasp.
sFinish mue at once," Livingston groaied.
Resume your sword," Returned Juan with a triumphant smile.
Liyingston did so. Again the two were opposed 'to each other
a deadly strife. Twice the cold steel grazed' uan's breast. Liv-
Lngstor was b'xCding at half a doeen winds.. Feeling histrength
failing fast, he thrust fiercely at Juan, regardless of the wounds hi'
himself received, and at last succeeded in wanting hisweapon direct.y
beneath his ribs on the left side. No sooner did Juanfeel'the pang

4 1


Shoot through him, than summoning all his remaining strength, he
plunged his sword into the bosom of his antagonist and fell with him
to the floor. Duval sprang forward to assist his friend. 'He had
already fainted, and the blood was gushing from his wound. -Two
sur eons were at hand, one of them hastened tc, Juan's- side, and.
while the other was occupied with Livingston, proceeded to examine
the cut in his side. The blood was soon staunched and Juan was
hssty~thughquietly conveoyed to a coich.
"hate wound?"h qWispeid Sinor in an agony of doubt.
"loangeinus, if not mortal." Replied the surgeon.
Juanin a few moments more recoveredhis consciousness sufficently
to articulate,
SLivingston-bave I killed him ?"
"Juan," exclaimed Duval, "do not speal."
"But tell rpe is he dead ?"-
"I do not'know, you must be quiet."
-"Quiet,imPossibl6, until 'I know that he still lives."
" He does."
" Thank Heaven for that; 0, if he should die, I am a murderer,
I am to. blame."
l Hush Juan" Duval whispered, "remember it was in a duel-"
A duel-yes; but how unpleasant to think of leaving the world
responsible for the death of a fellow-beiig, even though he caused
your own."
"Juan what do you meann"
*' That I feel what the surgeon would conceal from me, that my
wound is rmortal and-"
"No, No, it is not," Interrupted Sinclair inbroken accents, "it
is pnly a slight hurt."
",Sinclair do not attempt to deceive me, foi I feel that I am'going
fast--"
"Nai, do not think so Juan.'
"Aid Sinclair-"
His voice failed. His friend trembled with solicitation, drew nearer
and applying his. ear to hi lips, whispered:
"Juan speak on, what would you1"
" My dear friend, I have bot two requests to make, which if you
love ne, on will grant-
"Speakthein-"     i     eat
In the first place, ifyuv  mt     man, or the resemVace
or a inan, nrnmed Pierre. Verree, a man of about fifty 'years, ask
him if he remembers the slave 'Virginia,' and if he betrays the
least emotion, it is he."
'o  hoI"
The man whom 1 have sought since I have been capable of
upsheathing swordshe man I have worn by all that is sat red tt
hu henity to punish; the mart whom you must kill as'you would.
But Juan-

JUA o0,4

I

-Do" not question me, but swear to -fulfil my request."
"I swear." Said Duval firmly.
"It is well," murmured the dying Juan. And now Sinclair,I have
a secret for your heart alone. Take the locket you will find on my
heart, and I need say no more, you will understand."
Sinclair took the locket, opened it, and beheld her whom he had
wecretely loved, Beatrite Capello.
"You love her." He mu~nured.
"Love h    er"'Juan sighed.  Ah! Sinclair, better than life." .
~And she loves you I'
"I scarce can tell that she even knows of the passion that has
consumed me, and consumes me still-This portrait you will keep."
Duval boWed and grasped the hand of -his friend tightly in token
of his consent to all he spoke.
- Keep it," Juan continued faintly, "as the choicest jewel youi
friend ever possessed; whenever you look at' it, you wil'remember
me, and for my sake, you will regard Beatrice as 'a sister, I cansay
more, do not Sinclair, forget Verree-nor Beatrice.-M  y
"I will remember."

TU WRITS s.AI.

''

~ta  urqv"Ar'Tax Xr  ouwQtatX&amp;

28


CIIAPTR      .
YALOUSY.    *
CONTRARY to the expectations of.all, Juan survives his wonds,
For several days, he lay, so to speak, on the brink of the grave; but
thanks to.the surgeon's. skill, youth, and a naturally strong constitu-
tion , he slowly reeovered.
Beatrice sat aloe in her luxuriantly furnished boudoir, she had
for some time, indulged in deep reflection upon a subject near her
heart. Thinking half aloud,.she murtngred to herself
"'Tis evidentCecelia ismore to him than a mere acting companion
H loves her,.-! have it. She shall ,be my rival no longer; alre Iy
have we recognized each other in the protnenado. I will despatch-
her an invitation to join nie in a little private, banquet. Another to
Livingston willbe sufficient to secure his proper attendance. Thanks
to the physician, he has at last recovered from his late severe illness,
'tis strange that Lawrence should be taken to his couch, so suddenlv.,-
due though I presume, to an excess of indulgence-but to my plot,
these two little mehengers will bring it to a favorable consumation,
or I am little skilled.
Thus saying, slie hastly despatchedd her invitations, the one to
Cecelia, and the other to Lawrence Livingston; who, as has been
intimated, recovered from his dangerous wounds received in the
conflict with Juan. AaCordingly,-on the afternoon or rather evening
appointed9 the amiable Cecelia joined the proud Beatrice inthe.hl
of her father's stately mansion. Cecelia was greeted with smiles and
a kiss, and cordidliy conducted to the sumptuous reception. Half an
hour after, LawreiivLivingstoi attiied ala mode was admitted by
the serva-nt,.and xushnere4into tie vpreseboe of the ladies. He was
introduced to Cecelia, t9 whom he accorded all thesmost winsome
and graceful courtisies of a finished&amp; Chesterfield.
He was indeed splendidly attired, and dIslayed a succession o
the .most charming smiles, and sallies of humor and twit, he seemed
.    destined to, make an impression upon the too succeptible heart of
Cecelia - Conversation grew lively, and bon mots gay. The banquet
was arranged the exhilirating wine soon flashed fromipto lip, and
added s strange enchantment to the familiar repast. Beatrice grew
elated. and Cecelig languid, the wine was doing its work, wated
by the' accomplished,-and lofty Beatrice. She saW her moment had
come snd casting a yncaning glance at Livingston, unseenby Cecelia,
excued herself for a few moments, with an easy dignity, and leaving
them alone, sothebr chamber,,to feastbher jeo thoughts with a
foretaste 6f revenge upon her supposed but inftocent rival. The

4

AIL A

" 2

Ed  uetff


YI~U W~a3 SLAVE

I

11

1

27

5

large massive door closed after her with a sound pleasing to the
ear of theaccomplished ,dvingston.
When she returned,:her feigned polo   was scarcely observed
by Cecelia, wio hastly took her leaveof er, and with Livingston
Jeflthe avengedBeatrice to her own rellcuons.
In a splendid priate saloon  one othe rmost fashionab e lyotels
of Chestnut'street, andenvelopedI th-n o f    fsigh ts so briyanly
*  liluminat"gI the, costly, degorte  oPd,-somefive s or six-youn
men of wel1 known profieienef uioyr sporting, irlesxro led rou
the festive boardbeirng a'rich repast of the rnost patO belieacis
of the times, and, none the leaconspceous.there  ardigg   their
ieady taste, sets the choice charpaigne. The aartent:we say
was elegantly arranged.  oft brussls coyered.  ,floor e ensive
mirrors and costly paintings garnished  yalls.;aspacious cha4-
delier swung down from the;centre of richly igr4ceilgin
dazzling iajesty, whileat the windows, the p$     haz   Vg of
purple and White, with a tasteful partfrom the centre, ibll i r  ,*rg
folds to the floor.
Wine, wine! I wil hare'wsne
And I'll drinkkto thestarson -hgh"
Seethe .owo now hang like agolden gape
A ripening in these y.
And     des     'w, ike s loody d1ew
While           hn f f  g eat,;
Wil lree andIflowetIobkpaer shdwers
Aniughinqtheir.bscbannel mith."
Sings ChaunOy- Btivere, a -yOung jeeller of Maret street.
The rest of the compy' fat9 In' the spirit of the song,  oin'in the
second vese with        usg
Wine,*ine, arihrAM' auf now?1
Owherdis thedusky itreetI
A silver rpef bapgver  i,;-
An4 wine is lag
6&amp;ne hither 'i nwith d   hair,
Coeihithei and ,im i  a ,
And:PIi fling at you diamond sands in sport I
'1i3l you hid. 'nea he rely se~
1  itrou  a  e             1il3
su ',       '       lght  no
Hee a $untain'sp :s  the gaping sword
Like a pillar of gJbden *i
And through it we burst, with the joy-of thirst,
Till wefant in4 trade ditime."
R     through the saloon with a melody ardzst that would have
graced with a deathless credit the voluptuous fedsts of Belshazzar
the king.

0i.


w?8 4UwV                                        WR    E.

ChaunfcylBoierwas n   of thas votyod r rrd-"bloid dailed
in jovial parlance, " a good, clever fellow,'tWhichoiitinghisgu-.
bon companions, seemed to cancelt at least s ne cruel feature iW# bl
chyaecer, that  f ngleetingshisabeautifu yotugi wife; fuieir&amp; in
cup and the mid-nihtrevel Hleiwasgyouhg;bat t dnty thrc good'
looking andgay. Second in theconvivial party, sang Charles Orsay, a
young hatter, fond of display.-Adadshing buck of' fir complexion,
though dark-eyes and hair,,easy and winning adgorss, ar beeaUse
f        i    te     (s    eudy t  ca        e count,
"ILI  tor  iner    tdfa        -
Muzzy MortitiorO forrnr a    in 1   father's wholesale Iron
store, heai Brad stee but lutt&amp;lolk~ ditor and proprietorsf
a ~~ ap6                                    ,!q-t.o r
t uth oU    andiwentyasiudent
Con 111fill  i" said iir friend  ivimgsoi, fi
driik  'our ch rm g nettess, ' iia .
Theydrpikhri" ais'suggestioiift thU Iotelforihebhhstnuj
street   htir6  iVlhgston: d illingtort pic'dod (hithe  arm.in
a       Whie glig there, we        n will on t '1ief description of
Timothy; His utmost. height was just five feet 'si,' 4in his finest
stockings, no more nor lqs*1sp figsra y, stri.attention to, the
latest Parisian fashions, 49tgdet was emarkably spare, though
formed to attract, Thq color ofihisihair rna1be said to have been
ile medium shadq between the huQof    b n a44 Well carded flax.
His full locks  eid'af0ed.t ths atest style of fancy-
His eye brows wro abp ot4  ame oolor of-his hir, his eye lashes
also, while his eyes themselves - appeared to twihkle in a color
betw'xt a.blue.dh'adf .the
bewx .bu  and gray;~s forehead narrgwa ignd nose.  he
Gt66ian   o d 'A    hi41Siu   'm~i1restingover a ehn whch
rd fia      pedtible     is, fn,, r        eh
had a peculiar delight to appear  11i  i bfpt blV'ue press coat,
fancy,and lilac colored k lqvesfhipken  tytura; Patent leather
gaiters, and a prodigious standingeopar whieiiseemd to be necessary
to keep his little head ereeti surmounted Withdi ht beaver of his
own peculiar shape:. A4d g  talkihg              valued at about
--a fip," and a pair Df sagte  ,agmetrne  omplted Timothy's
dress. In speechibe was always equsitelynice and prim. But
by the time our company Weesnugl 'e'ted ine the theatre, the
curtain had arisen and the  Rtxe    t e ot p eced. The play
was that beautiful composiyi",' e M ife ,,n4fQecelia appeared,
amid a arlandofflnweis9*pathechetrmi'  ndennstiht "Marianna."
"Is s e not ret t?"  lf d10fo
"sAw, pon my n   iy otldsh'dor    d       st eauti i hair?"
Returned Pillingto rBMW -  en  '.
" Mark the noble bust, libwiripely devel6ped?i
a And thhw full of, love."
,,         d   bfNVUa                              O

' Aw exquibite-and her voce., how musical and elear." -
"Yes she reads beautifully-but Tim, would you not like an
introduction ?"
"In her company aw-if Araminta would allow it, I should feel
as if in the presence of an ngel.2"
"You are right, she is an angel truly.'-
Aw, I shall-be most happy."
"Ha. but Tim, I1 1ay you must not fall in love, if you do I shall
inform Araininta-of you; so becarefdlha,'ha.
"Aw, I shalitale are, you can trast nie
llingten replied als he again glancedithrough. hisopra-glass at,.
t 1P charms of the'leautifnl Cecelia) He now directe 'his pagnet
of beauty round th6dresscirelgi and' anon 'towards the boxs, and
what, was hia surprise to encoditer frem bn 'eofa        a's
glass pointed' directly' towards where hesat. Hewas tenfuep but
tmanaged'to sinil&amp; a recognition, and excusimg:himselfWtoLivinggpon,
id entninutes A6re he was at the side of  svraatchlesArat ta.
She ied' tamren e fotho Theattehii1. company with herparegsbut
Pillington and- hrself'very soonihad their box to themnelves alqe
At the conclusion of the drama, Livingston hatened.roqltoghp
e6ipany ofCen eha, whilesitnothy inhis hurried gallantry, awit
waiting for the coachman to open the vehicle, seized the silver hlder
with such an energy that he forced his thiib 1hroitgh he,ed  his
delicate lilac kid, to hiini a sad catast'opheo as he knew inot hoyto
prevent the exquisite Araminta, from seeing it. Asheyrode along,
and he reflected, he grew more and more excited with the unnlcasant
thought yet he endeavoured for probably twetyV. uigo egteitnin 0
her with his choicest dictioki. '2  V        d
MAtriving ,it' heir dwelling Vt  Agsehmen pppt        the
cbach door for them, but Timothy. tilJff edir t   uren
his, gkv6a           sette'itptingiito'rdeend-uhapi  in qrTqr. o? .# pf,
Arn~ota't tepavestrdck,  the czxtrxe  .0 ols  ent-eae,,
aainst the i-aised dge of the coachmdoorPay;  r  eto reo e
hit equilibriuniFelheadien ,tw th npvemept battle pie
flew up against thbaranston oor withfaimnig ettC  A r    ta
screamed ; Paandi Ma.arousedthy4q. ,h     srp olA   f
hecanwagainst&amp;,he door,:hastee  'thstreet,  i       tgn,
t6    utig-, athered h''siu     , ,
vexed sufficiently to curse outri, g hre  mse l up4
dp 'cirefialy aseddd Wi Aratmp4giptb rc pto   iu
-  ril 1to   was wrase   d .p lyj rfr               pe r ~~$
quence his anticipated pleasure with the dearAranitoUt'ye
fi* the veningi'his staywith her o t  99rotwr, g.A-  . own .
room, the reflections proved oer-whelmmg, yet~sU pp ml 4t halve
soon recovered from this shock- of his nerves, occpindiy is
misfortunes, had not his eye, on removing his faney 'oa 15ste upo'
a most luckless aiidipradigie.s;xrsntup'the ,baok   'tom t  exquisite
part of the tail.theredf, to the velvet onthe collar. This was moro
than his pulse could bear, and he sank back upoun his couch'completely
exhausted, and declined into a raging fever.

28

291

TaN WatM SuAVz.


ItAa     rIL

CHAPTER V.

WLa
Several weeks after-the events related in our last chapter, Sinclair
Duval was one day seated alone with Beatrice C apefo. She had
- just been reading a novel of- sente agral, and the  ep, passionate
breathing of some portions of the'work, seemed: to sink with effect
upon her heart.. Her better nature prevailed, and tears of sympathy
moistened her eyes,'like listening pearls.
" Ah, friend Duval" she said ashe entered her presence. "I am
glad-to see lyou,I have just: been reading,; and strong mst be the
passion which is triumphant even in death andwich can inspire
the heart to 'struggle against dissolution, and feel itself immortal by
the strength of love alone, but then Lean scarce beleive in thieexistance
of iucrlove--"
'This is a rare book no doubt, for' it seems indeed to have affected
you: much."
" It is an excellent work,-.-"    .'
But Miss Capello does not believe in such love 1"
Ii Fsparce cad."
"Indeed 1"
"Ii is so heavenly.
'Yet .1 have witnessed it in a degree."
Nowdu are'i-e  wiig serious-.but proceed to tell us, where,
"hen; ar id n whotf, you'Witnessed iti ha, ha, ha."
' In 'a frieid, " rnd 'bnt  short' time since.- I was by his side, a
he lay upon his-couchAick nigh unto death, and his last thought
were of one whom he laved deeply, perhaps hepelebsly."
A friend did' you say 1" Asked the proud Beatrice interestedly.'
"Yes,' adit is a friend of mne, too,,whom he4oved."
"And ,he4 nVei knew hisentiaieits towards her 1"
"He was not confident, forhe feared she might despise the ofbring
of his heatt."''
" Ah," sighed tis listener, still effected by the, novel in her hand
" he know , but little of woman to judge her so' She ma neglect,
bit wili never despise ran's-love, even though to-the world she may
appearto d&amp;6o.'"
'Wut perhaps she  hom he loved' was an exception, she night be
hore cruel than hersexirgeneral; Yet she isfair and gentle, though
soineims' proud.
I " Do  kr "heri?"
"'You hlve'se rr h perhapss" Sinclair smiled.  and' in confl.
dence I Will "jst say that my friend, feeling 'himself about to die

-rHU wiarre4Larm,

Si

placed in my hands her portrait, whidh he had procured tinknown to
heand wore it next hisheart as a kebret treasure."
Have-you it now?'A
,,I have-*.it is thi*.'" Reireplied, prodcing a locket. "Would
ou see it?"
"Ah, if it shouldOrotethe likeness of one Iknow, I fear that I could
nerer look upon her again, without' ri'arding her as unnatural and
cruel."
" But you forget, she -knows. not the ientimeints of his heart.
Sinclair placed the locket in her hands, she opened it, and behold
minmature' of-herself 'A sudden Aush of inward pride cast a
Crimson tingeiover-her face.
"How is this ?"-explain-"
In the fist place, you miist know my friend though dangerousI
wounded, did nbt die."' Sinclair began, pleased with the efrebt 6
his disclosure upon her.
"Well-".what you have said is all true?"
"Every word, I caneassure yroui,-helives, and loves*younstill."
The proud Beatrice ,hd arisen td her feet, and was thouightfully
pacing the richly furnished apartment,1ith a beautiful and' quenly
attitude, -
.Sinclair, i confidence, bring this gentleman to me,-his name
is Juan, is it not P"
"The same, fairlady."  Sinclair answerdd; with evident pleasure.
"He is known to fame, IbelieVe "P
" He is--i the tragicinu 64-should n6t the fair dauibMr ofSignr
Capello, object." Rereplied withgra eful'deferefice.-
"fI would see hinm here; list Sinlair, you  ill hot abie
fidence?" '
"Kihal Beatticeehinae
"You'will bgig himr' at you eatliesi'IleaIe 1f
"'He will be 'tejbicea' to  ear do'fa4orabi from' 6u, tnen,
adieu."
"Sinelair waved, his hand, bowed to her gracidsaly, and sted
int the street; and lIastined'i thidugh the i-oaded th'rouhare
towards the apriiehtk of iis frindtolad   n   t       e
of her kind invitttion.d               d
"She loveso" he laiwnea breakingabily        hapait rt-
ment of lhis fneniid."  "  ei bygyoi
W deahided 'd   his sygar        ith1    tt" You
cannot mean-,
"The proud Beatri&amp; Caplkl, I asstie you.
"But how '-is it possible.-my dear Sir, areyou sira of wht
you say-?
. "Withont'the' slightest doubt."
"But how did you learn such news I"
"Juan, I haye cause for apology, and beg your a on feing


guilty of an mdiiscretio~n, though perh~ape whenyuu know my motives
and my success, Lfeel assuredayou will forgive mne-"
" What mean you, Sinclair, I cannot afiderstand you ?'. Juan
claimed,.quite pale~and claspihgtheshatli of. hin friend still tighter.
8inclair then related all that had passed between him nxid Beatrice
Capeilo. Juanelistened:eagerly, hritsrnge.hewinteligee seemed
rather ~o cause hlim pain than nplaure. As -his friend concluded
his brow-gathered darkly and'his features became pale with agitation.
" Ah, Sinclair," said h in $empwlous tones. "You have done
wrong, but you thought to do me a service, and I forgive, aye, thank
you'foriit." -
'  For thp Jove qf heaven, Jpasn aresygu nedi? explain yourself."
"Not mad." Returned Juan with a melaneholy smile, but unfor-
tunate. 'The thought of being beloved by; them proud and noble
Beaticepapllo wgldaakemy heart leap for joy, did I not fear
ga  ninnext toi mosbe   As t s;the'4rl of pleasure ia
accompanied with a thrill of pain."
This but astonished the noble Sinclair the ngre, and, he exclaim~ed:
- T~or Heaven's sake Jpani explain this mystery.? Beatrice loves
you, and you. love her; in sqeiety are you. ot equals ? :Then What
is there, what can there be, o prevent your union?"
"Have you not thought l"-my profession. Signor Capelloeis
proud, of. noble ,birth; 'and. will not 'hastily wed his daughter sto a
mere artist of the drama, his ambition is more lofty, he looks higher
fo* the man whonphe shall call his son, the led of his daughter;'
".Juan you may mistake the opinionsp1f Signorfapeg~o, and you
farges hat. thoug ,aigahwmbleartist, you hay.. cqwiired fame, and
not only so, but.anet er.exyta no zocessity fqr yowr longer
.ontingaane tagt stage; yourpi.iion wth he Cpelle family wpuld
prove but the signal of your retirement from your profession."
" Sinclair you speak fine, is that not ae studied Qpeeche 'Ha, ha,
you really force me tp, laugh,)g tbi AntoniQ Capello has lineal
prejudices, .whiefrwogld. ideed mpar, #f not antiely prevent my
union with lhis only daughter."
"Sinclain, Ia n ver pokess the hand of ldeatrice, without
rveingthe secret of mytbith azgd that nce known to her father,
hie is far too proud to accept me as a member of his gf~mily, True
I might, ary ;her prhaps wiggut* eveig. thAe jgget,futto36
so would be :shonoraiblen mme, .O1 Oh~t Ad never Jayed[~
While .luan.s~ }eps trnp           gr-eoding~ )e mipu
of hiis friend. 'Curiosify to'know te preise secret-to which Juas
alluded, and pity for ihis upotgt position, in bitter reflections
mnngled in his breast.
*'"Juan," said he aftei- a painful pause. "May I not assa friend
ask the secret, which you say prevents your,-union with Beatrice ?'
" Have you not divined it ?"
"12How could 1?"
" Do you not rehlnnber hearing me *peak of one Peirre Verree."

ready to overlook 'die circ~Imstaunces
" Ah, if I could only hope that
noble-.hearted as you but you must
him; and how can)'getlthp
" Then we   ilegt(Sje
your nature; and theaif~ $&amp;

82

JUAN OR r

t,REJyou~te swrnit8 nish ?AV
" The same."                                   1     '
- And who is he 1"
- My father." Juan answered with a quivering voice, and covered
his face with his hands...     A
" Your father-and you have sworn to take his life."
" I have sworn to be revenged on him."
" And for what ?"
" A wanton and vicious act, thie murder of his slave, Virginma,
and for abandoning eseeke gffspring of)en 4/msedq.a"?
Duval rere      ia  '~t       atgs metnilla4eyer sus-.
pected such a secret'of his friend (as4now the statligganelnzt
came upp O  ig gg~c+kg.pf 4*


Hope on, hope ever,' Sinclair smiled,"I mean not for     * lo Bac
but for the lovely Beatrice."

CHAPTER VI.
a Wellu'Pillington how' is your health to day 1".
d'Haall Linivmgston, 'Mr. Moiinores talk in  alk i prety
well, {thank you, glad to se you, welk in "
Was the substance of the getting with which the latter tio'
named} gentlemen, entered Timothy's r6orri at the Oontinen al, on
a fige afternoon, about four o'clock,
' Heowlhave yon passed the day Tim 1" Asked Liingston, s4tg
down, adprfering Mortimore a seat; rain hrh self perfectly at
"   a    "    'A  ' to  f  1 r  -6 6  f l l             c
O, fineine, otigh as yoasee Iain a ittle atewiti iy toilet,
howet , I did net rise this-morning until eleven' o'clock. But what
de  yoguF'think gent' of mynew'doeskins? the first time'I've had.
them on?         .
« They set beaudifuliyparticularly over the boot, and not a wrinkle
in'the 4eg' to 'rriarther shining blackiess Tim they are lend d:
Who's your'tailor                           te
Charles Stokes.'     '
"Thep ruice of lothier
H   o* 'y~o 76 li.e thie vest?
"Ahnikw'style hti' double breasted, lappelled'pockets, and plan
buttons-.-"              .     a
. A shiale-b dests ie hee~rhi gr'-
,    O It has. take "iiid ome tiur"t deide which raat to wear;
white is besutifdl, bitdt fias 'ownso' dommod, that the veryservants,
waiters inhe Hdtsa,   all white drawats; an infridement
upon us, aw, that oh  no d bt toleaed 'on rmy sd however
I hare conbiuded to don my sy6tesS bl VA"
L e, my toilet is done how doyou lie t -seethe hair'parte
Ieliat   1ibehilid t'                 .                 ,
"0'yc ;fac y,      Ti   u you're  nikaed ladies Mali.'
"JHa,ha~ aw,'ohrn   a m o i u fittetrie Mortimore.'
oflattery-ut Tx   how is MISs Araririnta?""
O;chirtnirig,e halil see' hi- this afternoon on  the p omenade
''is now past four o'clock. Why 'pon 'm  oul, Livingston, there
she is now, on'rthe otiler side, an =in her fei silk dress,what a
charming  white'Sto ache 7 ,ard hat{a sweet'hiead-dress: See the
gems deher b re a   io  theyglisten, ahd indikthe diam9ndE o i
her tapering fingers,  thi;dter je1led ey hi she not 4cpr I

THiE Wk1ts'LAVL                 85

Besides, she's an heiress, ha hay ten thousaiid'a year, 'pon my soul
Ah Mort, no need of the profession -,thenw iy'1 shdll be}able tol
import ill'xby coats from Paris. Is she not acharming'girl? But
come we must enter upon our walk,; and perhaps join her'."
So saying, he drew on his fitiesL:coat, carefbllyplaced his hat on
his head, drew on his -lilac kids, put on his gold spectacles, took'
down his cane, and stood before the glass a.feWrminutes to arrange
two or three disordered hais, and announced. himself ready to
decend. They stepped' into the corridor or hall, but ere he closed
the door, Pillington instinctively returned to the reflector of beauty,
the glass. Replaced his hat,' arranged his spectacles, properly -ove
his eyes, brushed 'up-his hair again, and rejoined his companions on
the; verandah ner 'the street, .They were soonmingled with the
crowd of gay- pleasure-seekers of Walnut and Chestnut' streets
Passing down Walnut street, they saw Adelia and Louda Duval, just
comingout, they bowed " weetly," as Timothy afterwards'remarked
and Livingston and Mortimore' joined them, while Timothy himself,
passed on, and' soon enjoyed theninexpressible pleasure of joining
Araminta. How his heart palpitated, he colored and looked Inter.
esting. They walked together most lovingly, the " observed' of all
observers"  Ai-aniinta was one of those amiable and accomplished
creatures, whose beauty'consists of',il the 'varied-accomplishmentse
of the drawing-room and parlor,-Dress, Music, Drawing, Italian,
and French, etc., ,,The artifiials; to the negleet of what is really-
refining and useful
Durign'the pleasant: promenade, she informed Timothy with-the
most facnating witchery, of the color and style of dress, shewould
appear in, at'the Operatefollowligevening. He smiled interest dly,
and whispered to hetof 'several young ades of ibis acquaintance,
whopwould be;:resent, but whoweresO iinitely inferior to her.-
She azed into his face,sdexquisitely bewitdhingly,thatihis enchanted{
feelings'getting almost beyondhis contro, he could scarcely reftaii
fromaskingihera veryimportant question, but the 'thought that her
property might be rnortgaged,{intruded itself, placed the momentary
quietus upon his feelings;: andifmparted a more"judiciois tone=tohis
matriimonial calculations. They walked until the hour .of widhen
they parted,.andhe turned t  ardsr the Girard'Hodse3thatspalace
of luxury and comfort. Etiitg -his 'room, he carelessly threw
himself upon thecouch, and' fellIaway'into the followinig"in sirg-
"4Well, Ar minta is a gduh, wit{eut mistake, she hairproaised ne
her hand 'that's true; tre she will b rihe, but:then it will 'require
some time yet, and my pursehneedskeplenishing. -I mst ontrive
some way to satisfy the painful oid:i:ft has a' doleful 'ingle and
shows' a very gaping' moth. Pe haps kLivingston or Mortimore
would help me, I will try them. But, thank fortune, I have at least
one more pair'of patents lijftyet+± -'  ;" .  ,{
The gong souriding'for-teat iteruptedd him.a
Livingston, M'izzy Mortitnore and the Durals were in company
but a very short time, when they seperated, in fact their ,acquaintance

85


wpqggiimaeodenta1, mrepver their f egned attention was anything
but_ agrpeshle 4qthe accomplished   ls  Lavrenee Livingston
has airea ybeen34deribed, but of Lusi cizrnore.e wg.ave yet a
word to say. In height, 1MiysyystQdprol4akly fe feet six or seven
inchesieinfqature nfopufed teux   ei cong t, his hair curly
andshort,; forehead:narrw:and TrawirNgat thea basthof which
a pair of-rcold grey y, gleamed aroud   1 oa all creatioxi with spec.-
ulative and ounfeelingridicule; his nasaA organ wasneither sharp
nor-aquiline,. thovgh;partaking of as mixture of a certain species of
the eanireace, ofauima s ternedweheleive, the bull pup. Of his
mouth, chinetc., we willisay nothing', bt on each cheek bone, he
sported a smalltuft of hair; -tended forwhisers., Such.s the facial
outline of the blackmdutbed poel that PAce trotted ovrthe good
city ,f:" brotherlylove," inquest of 'Items(r~is, six by nine, tweekl Y
sheet.:                                           . -  --  .
Wecanno4;sta to descrihe avehemence with whichbhrough.
the extensivey ,ireulate, columns of 'the" Eye behind the Scenes,'
he pitchedinto those poor unfortunates, who " strutiand fret," on
-the stag ..Iso'nd they -ngt pro-sufficiently liberal towards him to
purehase:a" ritjcal and favorable" pub,";i ftheir varied merits as .
accurate deliniators of:tthe Comie o the Tragicmuse: It rattered
notto him, how weak thevictim of, his-hategmight be, his presumption
was'unlihit all came i for a shares efhi sean4al or i ridicule
--from  :ihe mnan of generic utiltyseiesspp to. theorrable
lessee,. though his giant influence was of hurcuian atrngth, yet
Muzz'a hardyeimpudone prompted the puny attempt to bring even
hiat1riidpulrad pblie censure.,l1
.HUutWitW  0  t 4heftern o-a   tbe dy fQ  nJlihgtons last
interviewiwit b Arinsa that a Inw   tendingg at ;t w1 9W of
his-roonag looking Qi4 t 4  atIiig4eji ngtrierable gIoyfales
fall iletly t1 epa erI9tIoptgheow.he aw i Aag s '
"i 4,eiam     w g  eorrnly:,frth  ,,bn g eand dregs."
Hleub1chim    quite aloud 'with surpri s  dAseizif)g. his green
umbreili3e ,e tend -to,;theti t grvid rsoon .bray s  hr,,.though
I not .utilirn his precipiation, :in  sceding~tlhe vera  ah hed upset.
th&amp; uahan ,who, without thegos Iege p1f the~fact stood in'his
'Waly.- Butt  heaised eFbrawti n grecn,' g{Yep;th fastidious
Ararnhit :fheypefceived for the firsa i . that it wi)s far too small
in cir coif regge tuhke bpt ,   sqeqmpurche dwith the
view o hlboWleiiuiutire siZggy    ogwcrtheeis brigne good
g aY i'R  aceditedt jK' igt p, f         n hpi sawt was too
sielfon boug   he did :t gapeii bumpkn, nor-apoeogzo like a
-l~oIl, aheafthrards rp arksdfson  people are so absurd,--
but. he; shieldedher with it- from  the- snow, and went himself
anpretected  -t#                -.-
On the following day Livingston Mor#imore and rillington were,
again in company at the latter's room, In the course of their re-
trospective -dialogue; Pillington recounted the following, as occur-
. ring in the dusk of the evening previous.

"  A  LVE2S

SAfer'I hiadt eoinated Ararriita to}her.door,'and, 'aw received
hei leasant smile; I -vag reitiirig t my -rn and *hen-en ing
up Chestnutstreet near Fourth,my eyecaught aglimpse pf a peunaivl~y
worded sign. The sigri-itselis shaped  tnethri g lik  ig  edge,
the larger portion of it being secured agahi t the ii i tapering
off to a sharp pointh ai  ot ovei'tle tf 6 do6i 6  o id three
feet in length. On one side of the sin, w  t-itfgdr gof.lage
"Eye,"iindtider it th*ot'd,"  tI  bhrida" Myfutiosity
was up at-its highest dag   tnil aadcaiaefulty(forit! Mas iy and
slippery,)"kaysed to t th erwside on'which1 whethe wordpf Look
to your sigl*."' I drewforth my glass, smyvspecti les ant being
sufficient,and while r  bthaid'wa*  et in diyatce o pd kfet, slipped
on the icy pavement, and fell my entire length in the snow. In::a
moment I was assisted to myfeet',by, a 'smiillbey, an attendant at
the store, and' who- it akearsaaw metfall I'fll hard, andwhen I
regainedrmyfeet, could Srcely statid. AA bid gentle manprpietor
of the stoirI believe, alsd hastenedtov assist me, folloted-ebytwo
or three females of the store; but the gentleman stepped 'il'tdo
little care, in his officious zeal, slippecdWpiabd 1ell adI;indt the'ybung
lady next'to-him; she fell against the Iecnd lady, whoilling also
brought the third somehow or other, about my feet, and 'de piteI of
the efforts' ofny:judveiassiStanwetbothwerit'dowi on b thenow
covered iee,-and Ythee we  yiale a4idi fernaley ih. akindcof pro-
miscuous heap, incapable for some minutes, of unlocking and helping
ourselves.
During Timothy's affected recital of his mishap, brought on by
old Soloman Winkle's ancient sign, Livingston and Mortimore
roared with laughter.
"Ha, ha, ha," laughed Mortimore, " I witnessed similar scenes
there, in front of old Winkle's, the optician's door, on several occa-
sions, that sign of the 'Eye,' and 'See the other side,' has proved
the means of bringing many a well enough disposed ,person in
heavy contract with the pavement in slippery weather. And do
you know' Pillington, it was that very sign, that partially suggested
to me the title of my paper ?"
" Two copies of which I had in my pocket when 1 fell,and which.
I have lost, as well as cracked my glasses."
" Ha, ha, better for the business of old Winkle ; Now you must
take them, and have him repair or exchange them for you."
"Aw, I would do so, but I would not meet the gaze and encounter
the merriment of those vixen girlsagain for a new pair of, glasses;
I would not 'pon my soul."
" But Tim," spoke Livingston, "you haven'ttold us yet altogether
how your fall ended ; How did you regain terra firma ?"
" Well, that I can tell, precisely. I was assisted by some
one, I know not who, but finally we all stood upright once more,
and after a great deal of bowing, courtesing and scraping, the ladies
hastened into the store, the old gentleman and boy followed slowly
and I-left. I believe none of us were very"'seriously hurt, only I
was awfull= nlbrtified. extremely mortified. 1 was indeed."

., .
}

'


38           -   JUAN-.OLD -TUWlICsa

"It was a provoking, though, ludicrious scenes in which to be a
anwilling actor, particularly in one's finest broad-cloth."  Said
Muzzy.
"Yes, and as is always my fate, I burst my panteloons in both
knees. Pillington reptied.
Bythe .way, Tim, you go to the Opera to-morrow night?"
Questioned Livingston. .
"I do, of course.; and should like to eo you both there.",
- Of that pleasure you shall not ;be denied."
"Araminta and I shall occupy a private box, already engaged.
Ah,:Mortimore, Arry is angelical. I know a number of young ladies
by whom I am constantly admired, there is Laura, Ida, Wilhelmina
and-"                     ..         - - -    ..
'Cecelia-" suggested Livingston.       .
"She is beautiful, but there is none to equal Araminta. Ah, I
wish you coutd see dud appreciate the languid sweetness with which
she pouts those ;incomparable cherry lips of hers, and she calls me
her ' pet."
"And Poodle," laughed Muzzy.
"No, Mortimore, aw, you mistake, she does call me her ' pet,' and
lap-dog.'
He went to the Opera, and had a delightful talk with Araminta.
who whispered from behind her fan and said, "it is very warm."

' CHAPTER VII.
THu DU;(oU5EMxr
The father of Beatrice Capelle was a man,who had seenperhaps
fifty winters-.-proud, passionate andheadstrong' During his youtn
he had heen guilty of nearly, or quite all :of thediolissywhich
have been so frequently encountered in tho; wealthy, biat unprin-
cipled and licentious. He marriedhappily, but hi domestic happiess
was ng4.destined to flowof without interruption, for scarcely hadihe
tasted of its delights, when the partner of his bosom died, leading
him as, a pledge of departed affectiQn; Beatrice an only child. He
did not marry again, but the remainder of his life seemed devoted
-to the happiness and improvement of Beatrice to this:he eolecrated
his leasure and his fortune. It;seemedhischief delight to see hergrow
up under his personal, cars, to watch thetdevplopment of her mental
and physical powers; and now that ahe had become a woman, ab
his happiness seemed centered iii her, as before ithad been centered
.in her mother, whose image was so like hers.
-,It has been said, that love is the business of woman'ss life, but only
an episode in that of man. The love that Beatrice possessed for the
aoble; Juan, was indeed .her daily; business ; while . Juan's, if an
epiode only, it proved the absorption of=his entire better ,nature.
He was.in her company alrnost daily.. And itwas several weeks
after their first-interview,.that on the afternoon' appointed mutually
by them, that hand in hand, and with eyes beaming unutterable
-    affection upon eaph other, they entered her father's library, to receive
his kind approval' and blessing. upon their anticipated uniop., Ard
strange, that very day, more forcibly than at any other. time,;Signoi
Capello, was absorbed in revolving through his mind,the ,ncoequer
result, and real propriety of Juan and his daughter's frqi ent inter
views. He had but of late, noted the deep attaghmezgfwhich they
seemed to possess for each other ; and began to reflect upon the
propriety of giving his, only daughter to one, who in fact, ss yet
seemed to him, but little more than a stranger. To his dislike of
the prfessign.-he kner"thep were a few exceptions, and ,if:Juan
shout ;proyeof birth sufigeigtly noble  h piessionwlwikch could
easily be dropped, should not rilitate against him, if he rely loved
Beatrice.
Atonia's mind thus already weling upon th subject. hough
little thinking their request so near, soon recovered from thenomen-
tary surprise which .their entrance,-and his _daughter's words gave
hiun.  istening to her goxifession, that she loved the man whose
hand she clasped before him, and had come, desiring his blessing o.n
their betrothal. He looked on tliemn a moment, with all a fther's
-  " - sa  .  {,  .r .  .s.  *  I  ,  K. .  ' -   Y    '  +   a  ;a  M

TSB WHITE sLAVB.


'40                      J VAXO~

tenderness, then bade her leave him a few moments of private con
verse with Juan.
Down cast and reluctant she obeyed, and returned to the parlor,
having Juan and her parent alone-.
Soon as sIhe retired, Capello was the first to speak, and addresing
himself to J an, said:  '
"You will not condemn a father's care for his only child-yon
will pa d thist firyou will allo i an right )inendedbri n  to
mtke nfselfequainted as)ful1 yas possibleerelthe die is cast; with.
the4fiawrhcmt Ilshill bail fhy -6n .'Allow ine;it Juan to ak you
of voulr  nily Pdesdent .  {.        .   ;,
An itwadtremiling, wlddhhe was scarcely-able-t   ondeeal,
i eied J an at thi, but with  a degree,'of'nRmingled ae pondpheyand
2" To thine Signtr Capell, I1 had na e up ra4 trdten hinatly
inobl ) ybti f a1befoe I would wed Beatrice, Yg r'lovely daughter.
But alagriow'Ifear jf j do' sI cap never cla t her' as'ybnride.*
'" keakn b y; your}honesty, is' at least -one' good feature'in your
dPtraetee fbr 'which Inlready feel a:strogri tarest fdou  Ak
eni.E The 61d gentleh ai r lied;;anxiously.
jT''be frank;'Signor'Capello, I am anorphan, and it gives mn
pain, alas, to revert to -her days of ?nhy sufferings and deep won gs"-
butide-shallR knoW'thern.' Alas, ignOr' I know not tny fath&amp;-w
I diyknof-". "   "             '    ' '     "'s4a'
'Cdapellostarted aid turned t le. -Perhaps' the reclleetih of lh
youthful ies ciosed hil brain, o lit 'may{be;"that hid rgardfot
uati wrdh nge&amp;to contempt   With his armsfolded oii hi breast
Jua t sat ttid Wafcled inisilence the 'eaet of hi  or&amp;fes'i6 upon
the highthiiided ighaor,who glaricing-at hi with a  uitened silence
"Do youem enber your nthet ?"
'd ,Signor. NShe is dead ilow"  IA
Mnefeniidered; "IC
Sha was whipped, sa that she'died.'
iYof are not an' Aniericacn, then-+-you were not born in this
bndgworb y6u ?"         "
t'-I'wd boiri inCo umbia, thpc:aprtaif ii6 state of South  iritpna,
and it   the  tha t h ii dcordande ith r  artielfather's' dirtns,
ahd for i'i uted cime onlf,'my mothe'rorshipped, dfte Which,
lie sqld me, with a small sister, to the proprietor of an adjoining
planitiotnand lervi ig us thus, inbondage foelife fled, ne  i ould
Thenyou are a siav, bf birthI'and, ankno you can;t 'be an
Africad n'uare too'light." C+apello hissed; rather thar spoke.
"you 'hrb dale-fhorror trdc1,ii see,bnt . ",
t+esn I wasirnsedvCapello  hvig  ine +rh .odmyl
"Yes, I was born a slave, but having . since purchared myself

T  WUIr Mavs.                  41
from those who aimed me, I:am now free. My mother was a
Quadroon, owned by my father, who was a white man; in the finding
of whom I intend to spare no efiorts; not to claim hini as a father,
but to take revenge on him, for my own and my mother's wrongs.
Such Signor Capello is, my short but humiliating history."
Juan walking to and fro, excited by the'consciousness of his own
degradation, paused, and concluded-'-
" And now I ask you, Signor:Capello, frankly, can you grant me
your daughter's hand in marriage 1"
Antonio Capellostupitied with horror, made no reply; but remained
gazing on the agitated Juan in silence.
" Speak !" cried Juan earnestly, " can she be mine?"
CapCllo pressed his trembling hands over his brow, and in a husky
voice answered:
" Oh, impossible !
Juan no longer hoped; yet the painful, interest that Capello had
taken'in him, appeared to allow him room to question further, and he
inquired:
" Why.impossible
u*She is-oh Heavens, yes, yes I will confess it-"
" Thdn speak ; she is-"
"Your sister."
" Mly sister !"
-- Yes- am'Verree, your father."
Juan for a moment, in turn, was stupified and speechless;' while
his glaring eyes, fixed on the speaker, seemed in their intensity of
gaze, to be starting from hid head. He was startled as if just
awakening from the embrace of a viper. At length. the spell was
broken, and stepping abruptly before the Signor, he ejaculated:
" Did I hear correctly, Signor Antonia Capello ? Did you say you
are my father ?"
"1 i." Said Capello calmly.
" Then hear me," said Juan in a changed and passionate voice.
-- I have said. I would punish the oppressor of my mother;for he
acted basely, inhumanly, and Signor if you are he, I insult and defy
you on the spot, I hesitate not.to call you murderer."
" How !" .eried Capello starting to hig'feet, and im-  eptibly
-drawing a knife from his inside pocket, and secreting  'and
"You are a cowardly'villian I!" Eelaimed Juan fiercely.
The quick,firery bloolofrage, mounted toCapllo's broW, and trem-
bling in every muscle with passion; he  strode furiously towards Juan
raised his hand, but ere his heavy blow descended upon his son, lhe
strangely restrained himself, white with rage,'and quivering in every
fibre of his body, he hissed:
"Young Man, I see you would'seek a qutirel with nie but insult
me as you will, I cannot forget that I tan you 'father.'''
' Ha, the memory of the ,relationship returns upon you at a mest
happy moment since you dian use It as a Smoothl"excuse for v
cowardie. But why, may I ask, did you-not think of this

4


A

42 ,tANRo
my mother was groaning in the agonies of death, beneath the bloody
lash, and when your son, as you now call me, toiled and wept be-
neath the gallingoppression of slavery.?
"Your son!!" continued Juan, striking the table fiercely, "and
for that very reason your mortal enemy. And now that I .have
found you, my-own and ,my mother's wrongs shall not go un-
avenged."
"Juan, calm yourself;" said Capello, quite recovering his self-
possession. " This is a subject that shouldn't be handled rashly.
In thefirst place;consider that in spite of all your taunts andin-
suits, I will never raise my hand against youl"
" Because I an your son,) and becnase you regard me with pater-
nal tendernes" said Juan, with a most withering sneer.
" I repeat it, I will never fight with you; I will never take your
life-murderer though you call me, neither shall you take mine,
nay do not start, but ,hear me; I acknowledge that I have done
wrong, and that you have a perfect right to hate-to punish me ;
if Heaven wills, I will die, but not by the hand of a son."
"If Heaven wills it--"
" Yes, if Heaven wills it, I will terminate 'my own existende---
punish myself."
Hesitating a moment, Juan gazed intently into the calm, plot-
ting face of his father. His eye caught their figures reflected
in full length and' outline, in 'a massive, Spanish mirror, which
extended nearly the entire length -of the room, immediately before
thom Juan advancing to the old gentleman's side, said:-
"Signor Capello; deign to cast a glance in that splendid reflec-
tor there ?"
Instinctively, as it were, Capello's eyes sought the glass. He
looked, and saw his own, and his' son's countenances and forms
reflected side by side; in every lineament, and in every feature,
how. like each other?  Both beheld a remarkable resemblance.
To the parent it seemed an unpleasant "reflection," and his brow
lowered as Juan continued:-
" see,,old dotard, how like each other our faces are? in truth,
though born a slave, my skin is as fair, as white as -thine. So
you 're my father, the author of my degradation and slavery, the
oppressor and murderer of .my mother ?"
He grasped the old man by the hand. Capello writhed, and
twisted and'struggled to unloose the death-like hold of his aveng-
ing song--his hand was on his thoat.
"Yillain1" cried Juan, in revenge, "your game. is played."
Capello grasped for his knife. "You destroyed the mother, and
now by treacherous;plotting would kill;the son, but amid the ex-
posed fragments of your hellish scheme, broken into as many atoms
as your vast refleetor. Die'! no longer call me son."
Saying whieh, he with the redoubled strength of despair and
revenge, hurled him into the centre of his massive looking-glass,

I

Tr W  SLAVS.

48

breaking it into ten thousand peices, and cutting .im in a shocking
manner about the head and face. The alarm occasioned by the
crash, was immediate and astonishing. Capello hallood\ " Murder !"
and Beatrice screamed,."&amp;tIjhthlp,"   hie Pilington, who, in
making his rounds, had called in to see her, while Juan and het
father were together in thea iary-rightged beyond his wit's ends,
sprang to his feet, seized his cane, and in delirious amazement,
whirled its around ad;e q. his ea 4 ximed   with 'tragic
vehemence :
.Aw, goodness gracionu, what eapbe the rnwtt     wesa
all be killed.- Watch,wat h re are th oQlicear jQ, oodnes,
We -shall be kille4'pn mysu.
He. raa the street, wr pg,,  afh  d  i.hi in  e  i rjent,
and battered the lage dooiwihAsas can until U10 a ter ew frrzn
his hand in'splintersawse a a     p nd. dowt vernn
front of the house, exclaiming:
"Murder murder I where's the officers? we shall ald e killed?
For a second he paused,,aslf to think an4 e extmoment, he
was not to be foundwithin ateast four squares  Calip's mansion.
lie fled, muttei  b bitterlaie stations concerning the irreparable
loss of his little cane.
Whein the raceumpidgQwdsp[ alarmed citizens burst into the
rer,  yfop tlfp  r~rdstpill .stru gdorftheeastery.
Fortunately, Juepa ns uarie4. He was removed, and hld under
arrest by, tre  opera&amp;uthorities, until Capello should sufficient
recover from    several contusions about his head, to institut hw
charge agais t"langry                              :,an'
I;

,t

6

.

"


rHE WIT SLAVE

CHAPTfER VIII.

Eythe promptitude and-friendly devotion of Sinclair Duval, Juan
was allowed his conditional liberty on bail.
S$everaF aays subsequent td hi s Orbial&amp; interview with his best
friend, 4n'which he informed him to his ttter'astonishment, of the
'late discovery of, his father-he wa' seated in= social converse with
the aiable Gcelia 'He 'enteredoher presence, in the profoundest
goM and seri6usnegs. Sitting d4o*n byr her side, he gave-vent to
his overcharg mfueelimgs in te lanuHe of Hamlet'. soliloquy,
commencing:x

"To"be, rnot to be, that'i the queetto.
Whetheiti nobler in the ind to suer, *te usings
.&amp;;i1 arrows of outrageous fortune, or to take up aras against
A sea of troubles, and by opposing, end them-"
"'well, I 4e are Juanyou are' a waysgIoomy,"  Ceceliainter-
rupted him laughing, "what neW troubles ave you met with now ?
talleng about suicide tob.,Why Juan'to say the least you canriof 1ts
doiyou not think that suph is never the mind of hero; Despair
never enters the mind of 'a true hero. Be nMerry aimd augh  here
you are inclined to weep, be a conquerertin life's busy'? strife."
'Indeed Cecelia, it gladdens me, I assure you,6to find yon in such
a merry mind. Your advice is congenial, healthy and good. -'Tis
cowardly, unmanly to despair; But, by the way, is this the careless
manner, in which you allow your jewelryto lay about ?",
And he took up, and opened a beautifl gold encased medallion.
" Heigho," Cecelia sighed, in confusion and heaviness, " a likeness.
of a dear absent one. Humph, the recollections associated with
the picture will make me sad."
"It is a pretty picture ; may I ask of whom it is a likeness ? Not
yourselfr.-though to confess the truth, it resembles you closely."
" Oh Juan, do not questiorr longer upon a subject entwined with
the tenderest chords of my}heart; for touching but one disturbs
all; calling up a'train of reflections, shrouded in sadness. And yet
to tell the truth, it is a subject of which I have often thought I would
like to tell you. 0, that I might possess wholly to myself your
generous confidence, for gay as you may sometimes find me, yet
rest assuredJuan, I have my pensive moments as well as you, I am
sad now, your questions have called up a succession of thoughts,
which will make me sad the remainder of the day."
" Cecelia I regret that my thoughtless interrogations should be the
cause of your present gloom and pain."

f
t
v

44

4

manU on%

40

1

s

"Juan, you at least, are not at fault.: These sad recollections,
will intrude themselves, at times 'upon my gayest moments,"
Cecelia, I. regret you are unhappy, but if you deem me in the
least worthy of your confidence, and ifthere is any sarifice that I
can make or you, tell .me all speaking may relieve you."
Can you keep a secret, Juan inviolate?"
iI can."=                           t.         at{   "
" Never to reveal it, never to prove recreant to the sacred trust
reposed in, you?"!:,Spoke -Cecelia,) talmnly_,
Not if the Heavens should fall." .an aswered,  y, a
raising in calm composure hisright hand towards Heyer
Then you shall know the secret of my life. .Thetpicture you
now hold in your hand,4is the likeness of nmy brother, who is now
dead.It was :penciled: and presented to her, before she came to
America."
"She was-"    Paused Juan reviewing.the portrait.
" A beautiful, Quadroon," Cecelia answered, "malesticand beau
tiful as ever reole was; but she was-Juan on your solemnaverment
that you;will lock the secret-tightly in ,your breast ?"
"I will," he.exclaimed almost breathless withattention aniterest.
"She is dead you say.
"Yes-"
"Well ?""
"She was unfortunately, the property of.a wealthy 'Plant of S
Jago de, Cuba."
"9His name "
-  I almost forget. It has been sQ long since I have heard it. Ilut
.   he removed to.South Carolina, and I was their born-a slave"
Burying her face in her lap, she murmured;  r
"And I had a brother."
She sobbed- convulsively her deep consciousness of her haplea
degradation. Bitterest tears bedewed her face, beautiful even with
the infamous brand of slave.
" Her death-was it natural ?" Juan stammered; deeply affected
with interest in her sorrow.
"It was not; He afterwards hated her, and upon, some frivolous
charge, had her punished, so that she died."
"Her name was-"
"Virginia !"  Replied Cecelia, starting up at his changed and
strange manner. He was painfully excited, and while the large.
drops of perspiration oozed through the pores and stood outon
his forehead, and face in chilling. drops, he trembled ;aid groaned:
"Oh, Virginia-my sister--my poor mother !" lie fell It' the
floor, by the side; of hissister,- where, by a nuifber ,f disconnected
sentences, Cecelia understood.tat he was indeed, her long lost
brother. Heihad changed hisname, which  ith otleeipunangs
contributed to keep th pr niojv to each other. until this lstidis.
closure. Their ,tears opf iexpressible joywere mingled togeter
in one soothing balm of consolation and relief. It was some tiae,


d6                       JUAN OR,
era both recovered from the' sheck; and when they did revive, the
clasped each other in a long.and-efectionate embrace.-:
When at length they beamesufficiently composed to converse more
atisftctorilytedfree; there byansbethought which still embittered
thepeculiarjyoftheunfortunateteelia. Itwas herlate acquaintance
with the fashionableroueLarenseLivtidgstonr The sadremembrance
started her tears afresh. But when she again grew calm, Juan
affddtim ly aid :-:....S
"Cecelia you are aware, hoWthat from the moment I first learned
of yot riiray'with Livin gston, havebeen-pained deeply to know
the fact of your acquaintance with One who is so far beneath you-
in ev&amp;y viw, and whom I have held in contempt- for so long atime.
But Ceceia nd! that we know each other in a different and more
endearing Ilation -Brother and Sister)-it is natural that I should
feel a still greater regard for your happiness and welfare 'through
life-a stronger interzst"in asking you to? discard the company of
Livingston, to hun himi as- you would a venomous }reptile, that has
alreadf'at tempted the life of your broth.: -But I forget, I should
not spea so now. Cecelia yo will think more of this ?"
"Broter as this so, Livingston has assaulted-ua j ; Oh, would
to Heaven, I had never known him. May .the lightning fledged
pinions of God's retributive wrath arrest, and bring him to a quick
accunt. The brand of the infamous Cain, be indelibly stamped in
lines 'ofIiq is flame upon his brow, that he be an outcast and a vag-
abond on the earth."
"Howmy sister, why this sweeping annathema ?"
"ie has'assailed you,;and wronged 'me deeply."  She replied'in
a faltering' voice.
"Wronged my sister !-oh ! alas! I feared this,-found my sister
but to avenge her !
He would Eate hUstily left the apartment, but the tries of anguish
frm' Oeeliadstahied him for several minutes, during which time she
prevailedupon him not torush precipitatelyinto danger. Hegrew more
composed, but eqtdlly firm' ii his resolution of revenge. Retaking
iis seat by her side, she now, in answer .to'his questions;informed
nhn of the tiantier in highh she gained her libertyfrom bondage.
Said that after she had been engaged-at one of' the largest hotels of
Charleston .city, a Mr. Linford of Baltimoreseemed to take au
irifere$t irfher, and erc he left 1fir hischoine, he purchasedher and'
took 'i with' him. Arrived in 'Baltimore,,and'scarce twelve months
after'he hod purchased her, he was taken severely ill, and in a short
time died. On his death bed and'nearly the last thing he said, he in
the pesence of witnesses spbkb her free. After the death of her
master, she choose to remain with  her mistress, for a considerable
tiee, whom she liked very mich, and front whom she received. a
tolerable education.' But her mistress soon followed her master, in
death, and thus she was thrown upbri herself for support. She
conceived and cultivated a taste for thue public stage, and thus while

1

THE WHITE SLAvE.
aiming at excellence in the tragic art she found her way to
Philadelphia.
She had scarcely concluded, when they were both startled by 'a
rap at the door. Cecelia knew thp sound, and trembling with ear
was silent. Withoutrmuch delay, however, and without awaiting
the invitation, the affable butvillainous  Livingston, bowed himself
into the room. He was disconcerted not a little, on recognizing by
the side of the fair Cecelia, his late antagonist in the duel. Juan sprang.
towards him, and closed the door. Livingston ran his hand almost
imperceptibly over his person, as if in search of some weapon of
defence, but disappointed at finding he was unarmed, he muttered a
hasty and forced apology, and desired the privilege of leaving the
room peacably, as he came.
"Villian, do we meet again?"' Gritted Juan, as he turned and
confronted him. "What do you here ?"
"Tush, what'-is that to you? 'twere better for the present, that you
allow me to depart." Livingston replied with sore degree of aumed
dignity,
"Not until. you account to me, for this abrupt intrusion into this
apartment." Juan hissed.pnro                        tt
"HaJ by what authority do you make such a demand 1"
" Upon the. authority of a brother; prepared to shield a sister's
honor, and fully able to.avenge her wrongs." Juan replied sternly.
" A  brother," Livingston sneered. "Cecelia the sister  f a'
fugitive ?"
"Stay, I'll none of this. She is my sister," hissed Juan, advancing
to the mantle-piece, and laying his hand on a pistol,. he continued.
"'Tis time to close thisparley,.here are pistols, take 'one and defend
your miserable life'
" But that would be unequal, I would not risk my life with a
slave."
"Cowardly insulter, say that again, and you die on the spot.
Here, villian, must I force you tQ defend yourself, take this, and let
us not meet again."- Said Juan extending him'ope of the pistols.
He seized it with an eager grasp and as Juan turned to walk to
the middle of the room, hastily fired, but Juan, unharmed, turned
quickly, and seizing him by the throat would, without discharging
his pistol, have strangled him to death, but Cecelia having recovered
sprang between them, shrieking, "Oh, Juan, kill him not, kill hin
not," saved ,him. Her impulsive sympathy prevailed, and Juan
exacting a promise of honor on her behalf, permitted Livingston to
leave which he did with secret vengeance burning in his heart.

i


CHAPTER I.
van Lovan.
Leaving Cecelia in the care of her brother, we will now transport
the reader to that beautiful place of fashionable resort. during the
summer season, Cape May.
'Tis a moon-light eve ; and over the snow white sand and peb.
blues of the shore, sparkle in the bright light, the vast resplendant
beach glittering as the jewelled band of ocean; over which the same
silvery light continues as if bathing in the reflection of a spacious
mirror. The sea itself, calm and unruffled,' reposed, as if lulled
et last, by h4 own constant rocking into quiet sleep. Along the
shore are scattered groups of visitors of nearly every age, of both
sexes, and from all parts of the union. And "Ah," shall we sigh,
the heart- of many a young girl, beats quick and high, as, leaning
confidently on the arm of her lover, she listens to his soft empassioned
vows of constancy and still increasing love. Among the happy
throng along the romantic beach. we encounter the Duvals, Sinclair,
and is two sisters, Adella and Lousia.
The sea seemed glassy in silence, and the gay, merry laugh from
many a full, free heart bounded out from the shore, upon his calm,
silvery surface, and danced away into distant echo.
Leaving Sinclair in company with a Miss Lindsay of the city,
and the two sisters having take their leave of their gay gallatts,
we will follow them to the quiet reception at the Hotel, where the
following insubstance passed between Louisa and Adelia:
" O, Louisa, what a delightful place this Cape May is, to be sure ;
So romantic,.and yet so gay. Such a splendid beach,. and such
pleasant zephyrs from thesea, and then such com pany ; 0,I declare,
am quite sorry our stay here is to be so short."
"And so am I, for it seems to me Adelia, that I could be happy
here forever, particularly for such pleasant excursions over the
beach, among the diamonds andshells, as we have had this evening,
-but soft, did you mark Marston ; 0 was.he not delightful and gay?
"And Lemuel was nearly bewitching, and with his happy com-
pan    appeared enchanted, well, I think I shall yet like him as a
brother.
Adelia colored, at the sudden allusion to her evening gallant.
But the gay, laughing Louisa prattled away at a hi.morops rate,.
until the apartnnt rang again with her merry' laugh ; She was the
youngest of the two sisters, and- differed with Adelia both in dis o
sition and person. She was not quite so tall--with less dignity ut
her vivacious and happy wit, appeares as harmless as it ever was,
entertaining. Though born at the sunny South, they were liberally
educated at the North. Their father, Elmer tDuval df French

48

asas es,

-educated at the North. Their father, Elmer Duval of French
,extraction, and late of South Carolina was possessed of 'considerable
wealth.
Adelia feigned a participation in her sister's mirth  and to divert
attention from herself, spoke of her pleasure at sing their brother
Sinclair so happy in the"company of Miss.Lindsay.
" O, yes," laughed Louisa; " I ws delighted to see. them-enjoy
themselves so much, but I thought Iwould have died with delight, at
observing the sentiment and grace of Timothy ; O, did you ever in
your life, meet with such a fine, delicate, and fastidious little fellow.
With what poetry, and exquisite nicety he ' aw,' describes the ' aw,'
beautiful, 'aw,' moonlight scene, 'aw,' ha, ha."
- "Pshaw, Louisa, how can you speak so, of such a soulless senti-
mental, rainless fop."
. "You do not fancy him Adelia, but to-night I am, pleased with
all1'
"Particularly with Mr. Marton."  Said Adelia.
The sprightly Louisa, was of a rosy hue naturally; but the name
just syllabled in her ear, visibly deepened her healthful color._. For
a second her countenance fell, and she appeared more beautiful than
ever. She raised her eves languidly, and casting her arms about
her sister's neck, kissed her, and whispered:-
" Yes-but is not my sister happy in my choice ?
"Dear Louisa, I am."  She returned affectionately.
The season of pleasure at the Capes, closed. And the latter
portion of the months of September and October, were passed by
them in Pjiladelphia, where the Theatre, Opera and other places of
amusement came in for a goodly share of their.attention.
On arriving in the city, Sinclair again sought out his friend, Juan ;
who informed him of his dicovery that Ceceliathe Actress, was
his long unknown sister.
"But," he added. "Capello~ has removed, whither, none can
definitely tell, but I have very strong reasons for beleiving he has
gone South; I must follow him, l'or be revenged I will, if I have to
seek him in the midst of my enemies."
"Juan, reflect; go among your enemies you most assubedly will
if you retrace your steps South. Give over this mad pursuit of
revenge; and let Providence deal with him; remembering, ' Ven.
geance is' mine, -saith the Lord, and I will repay."'
" Sinclair are you indeed serious, have you, so soon forgotten
your late promise ? vengeance belongeth to the Lord, I allow, but
does he operate without the instrument or means, does he not often
punisht men and nations, for their crimes by their fellow men ? but
Sinclair, I cannot argue the subject; if, you  tanot consent to
accompany me, I shall love, you none the less,'but must go alone.
But enough of this for "the present, 'tis a gloomy subject at best, let
us speak of something else ;-how have you enjoyed yourself since
T saw you ?"

49

THE WHITE SLAVE


TU WrT rLAVZ.

;Well, indeed; been down to the Capes, and had a pleasant time.
" Right glad to hear it; how is Adelia and the gay Louisa ?"
" Fine, fine, in excellent spirits, and wish to see you much."
"Thanks; I shall visit them. "How is Mr. Duval and lady?"
"Quite well, in a few days they leave for home."
t Ah I you will not remain ? cannot we journey together ?
" We can; but Juan, I fear for you,"
SHa, ha,\ not-for my arrest as a fugitive ?"
No, but for. the disagreeable consequences of your hot pursuit
of vengeance.'
Leave that to me; there is less certainty of detection at the
South than here."
Juan I do not wish to be a participant in your crime, bu promise
h   you  i not seek Capello, and we will still journey together
the best of friends."
"That I will not seepc him,.I promise ; with the codicil on the
back of that, that if he crosses my path, he shall die."
'l''hat will do, your hand in confirmation of this, and we will
say no more on the subject."
-"          w
s  /  rr

CHAPTER X.

TanDIts1xIO c0NSPIRTORS.
In the city of Charleston, and at the still hour of midnight., in 'the
month of Decerniber, and from the beautiful pleasure ground-the
Battery," a solitary boat pushed out from the shore; quiet anad
quick it glides out towards the rriddle of the bay. A dense, dark
cloud just leaving the moon unobscured, we are enabled by her
welcome light to see' the boat some four hundred yards from us,
and moving directly for an inverted bendof the thick foliaged wild-
wood skirting the opposite shore. -On, on in silence, it glides;over
the dark waters, like a- self-moving' thing of life.- . It :strikes the
shore, two- men leap out, and making the boat fast beneath a clump
of 'bushes, that hang over and dip the water; in five, minutes, they
approach a large, old manor-house, closed -tightly from basement to
top, and situated in the midst of a most beautiful inclosure of flowers
and forest trees, in which universal'solitude, seems-"to be the
reigning monarch. But the two men approach the main entrance of
the mansion, and giving the 'secret signal, they are immediately
admitted, and completed a group of some twelve or thirteen dark
clad men of diversified temperaments and mental-endowments. But
without entering into a description of them separately we will give
a single glance round the-room. It is a spacious apartment, the
largest in the house. A single lamp is 'the only. vessel of light 'in
the room, and which stands on a long, plain:table, :upon which lay
scattered a number of half written nmanusbripts, sundry papers,
notes, etc., imparting to the deserted old hall, a faint air of business.
Around the table are arranged perhaps a dozen or more fold
fashioned, high back mahogany chairs, in them are seated our new
company of men, all more or less absorbed in the examination'of
the portentious papers before them. At the far end;of the.table and
next to' 'the lamp, sits a personage possessed of strangely striking
features; and movements; he ras already been introduced to the
reader, as Signor Antonio Capello. The rapid, penetrating glances
of his large black eyes, as he interestedly scans the numerous writings,
give proof'of the restless spirit within. 'Lifting his, eyes fron the
papers fora moment andglancing hastily round the tableiheremarked
to his companions t-
" Well gentleme , friends, we have had an excellent time of it,
to-day, at least."ti,'/4
Excellent indeed." Dropped in congratulation frombseveral of
the company.
Withbrave Richard we can say:truly 'the.workgoes bravely on
The convention to-day, besides evincing their determined spirit in
various well-drunk toasts, have published a number of gratifying

4

50

JUAN OR,

0


' w'

$4

JVAN K, .

speeches, and passed resolutions, breathing in every line, an unswerv-
ing determination of severing at the cannon's mouth, and with the
sword, the American Union."
A slight degree of favorable;agitation, was quite susceptible round
the board in th hurried glances of approval, from one to the other
but in a moment, all eyes rested on the speaker, who continued:-
"Already we have the state legislature with us, her written
pledges in    and white. They are about to meet in convention,
when by one bold, undivided. act of secession, they will declare and
publish to the world, that South Carolina, is free from the yoke of.
Northern aggression and tyranny forever." .
" Ha Iha l truly encouraging,".laugh the listening group
At this free out spoken approval, Capello grew  animated and
flushed, with a feeling of triumph he arose to his feet, and in strains
warm and vehement, continued:-
" Aye, gentleman, my word and fortune for the truth of the
declaration ; South Carolina,.the glorious old' palmetto state,.shall
yet stand the bright centre ,of the entire South, refulgent and free;
all are watching our movement -in the present crisis, to follow us in
a solid Phalanx against the North; and then holy brothers, the Order
of ' Jeshurun,' assisted by'the warm blooded sons of the South,
shall strike deep their governing principles, and make South Carolina
their secure seat of power. If they do'-not, then I wish to live no
longer, so let Heaven blast me. 'But come, let us drink to our certain
success, and thus while we devise to conquor, let our, motto be-
'Extended rule.'"
As they toss off the exciting champagne, we will say by the way,
that seven of :these disunionists, are  secretely, active Jesuits,
league together 'as the order of s"Jeshurun" for the purpose of
subjugating the United States to their domination, by every subtle
and crafty means which theirnatures and sworn cunning may suggest,
their motto, as we have seen. it to be-" To devide is to conquer,"
while the mystic signification, of their eclisiastic name is-Priest
craft,Deception and War.
The champagne had passed among them but once, when one of
the company was called to 'the 'door,:by aoth'er signal from without.
The"a pass,": was; demanded, ana "Secession," as promptly given,
the.door opened, and 'the new comer entered in' the person of a
youthful, though:dignified lookingman ;: hishair was bushy and full,.
and a heavy moustache, covered his:upper lip; which, was it not for
an almost perpetualsmile,and a benignant eye,would have imparted.
a considerable degree of sternness of purpose,-and invincibility of,
will te-his entire: face. Dt:hei advanced among the assembled
secessionalists, wvith a graceful, easy air, at once modest and respect-
ful. . At-an invitation to jointhem iM their sentiments of the evening,
he pleasantly spoke as follows:
" Gentlemen arid brother f:the same happy Order, allow me to
give the 'coming ,crisis'-rnay :the bold sons of South Carolina in
pleading her rights, goon conquering and to conquer. "

. !

55

It was drunk off with a universal murmur of satisfaction.
.Another;' Said the same person, " and then you allow ine to
take a glance on, those documents I-see scattered over the board.
it looks like business. Secession stock no doubt is on the advance,
it must advance; but the toast. 'Our sister states of the South,
identified with us in sentiment, feeling and interest will not, cannot
be against us in the approaching contest of state sovereignty.'"
They joined in -the sentiment with' boisterous glee, and having
emptied his glass, the stranger, who, by the way, was one of the
- Palmetto Cadets," turned to look over the manuscripts on the
table, he 'glanced over 'the several .notes of allegiance, read them
and smiled. Ten or fifteen minutes more, and they all drank, again
to their future success. It was long past midnight, when in groups
of three and four, they sauntered down towards their boats, which
were drawn from their secret cove, and filled with the celerity of
thought, all were pushing hurriedly from the shore, when they were
startled by a gurgling shriek from the stranger. As they all turned
towards him, they beheld him struggling wildly with the rising
pillows, they hastened to the rescue, and succeeded in drawing him
from the foaming and dashing surf, safely to land. As he arose to
the surface of the water, the moon' shining down brightly'-upon him,
revealed to their utter amazement, the long, flowing hair, and pallid
countenance of a woman. The false moustache' 'had been 'washed
away, and her sex was no longer concealed.
" By my faith, a woman I" Exclaimed the wonder stricken
-ecessionists, as they gathered around her.
" 'Tis strange, what could have been her object? she still lives."
" Curiosity is a plague to some. but to her we see it has well nigh
proved death."
" A woman, say you T   Capedo enquired coming up with the
company assembled around the bewildered woman
"Yes a woman."'-Duval laughed, " ha, ha, Capello we mxave the
ladies with us."
"There must be some secret, here; back' to the manor, 'and bear
her with you, bak to the manor."  Capello commanded, rore than
solicited.
But ere they reached the mansion;sherevived,and fearfully shrieked:
" Oh, father, father save me I"
"Heavensj1 'tis Beatrice; my daughter low is this V" 'Exclaimed
the afflicted Capello, smitten almost beyond endurance,
He staggered, rather than ran to his beloved child,'and clasping
her surf-dripping form in his arras, sobbed%~convulsively. They were
borne into the spacious room from which,-but a few minutes before,
they departed entire strangers. The light was procured, and then
the secessionalists gazed for several minutes i wonder upon a scene
that appeared to hold them all completely spell-bound.
"Oh, my father, forgive me; oh father forgive=-" . She exclaimed
in the deepest penitance.
" Beatrice, my daughter, why have you acted thus with me ? 0

fI

. I

THE WHITE SLAVE.


what have I ever done Beatrice, to merit such deception; why have
you thus pursued me ?"
And as' though still to assure himself that 'he was not mistaken$in
the person, and voice of his daughter, he tore the tightly buttoned
coat and vest from her person, which disclosed her silken dress yet
quite dry. Next the pants were removed, and she stood in their
midst a lovely woman again, in her own attire. She thengave her
cause for thus visiting them; being her love -of adventure. Full
explanation being given, they all congratulated .her on her escape
from drowning, and hinted that she must have drank too many toasts
at the meeting; this she archly-denied, and soon they were on-their
way home once mort, rejoicing.

THE PLOT

56

i

JUIAN ORS

9

r8$E WIr'E SLAVE.                 O
CHAPTER XI.
TMa RUSE.
6 due couple of time the ease of Juan and Capello, came up for
trial. Juan and his friend were punctual and prompt, in appearing
at the bar'of justice, but Capello failing to appear against his son,
Juan was acquitted. Shortly after, he left the city in company with
Sinclair Duval.
It was - on a beautiful afternoon in the month ofl'January, they
were walking arm in arm along the most wealthy portion of King
street, Charleston. Though in January, the sun shone down over
the city-bright and warm. King street being their fashionable avenue
of promenade, the beaux and bells were out in their gayest colors,
and presented to the eye of the animated observer, a scene at once.
picturesque and pleasing.
Juan and Sinclair, were passing along gaily and enjoying the
busy scene, with a zest ; when among others, a beautiful barouche,
drawn by a couple of black horses, attracted their momentary
attention.
"That's a splendid establishment." Juan remarked to his friend.
"It is, and I almost envy its owner "
" Those blacks move beautifully ; so regularly and even, but see
they have stopped at Clarksons let us hasten on and get a peep at
-thosenside."
They quickened their paces, and reached the store just as one-of
the vassals opened the coach door, cast down the,:steps, and the
young lady decended to the side walk.
"AsI live;' it is 'Beatrice I" Ejaculated Duval to Juan, the-latter
started with surprise. She looked up, and recognizing -inelair,
smiled complacently, he raised his hat, and returned her easy bow.
For 'a second her gaze sought Juan, she smiled, but it was cold and
withering, and she hastened into the store.
" Ahem, Sinclair, she does know us, I believe"
" Without' doubt.; but she is the very ast person I expected to
neet here so soon."n_
"Her smile on you seemed bewitching; but on re it wap changed
in a moment, to the most venomed sneer; her father surely; cannot
have told her of our relationship?"
"How could he have-done so, without exposing.himself?" Joined
Duval.
"He could ;rot. Then she must' have thought of our wrestling
exercises in the parlor, in Philadelphia."
"'Tis that, without doubt."
Well that may wear off, at least I hope so, for I cannot fr get
she is still my sister '

.

a


3
i ,
R
i
f
3
1
i
i
t
' 3
1
{
j1
f
3
E
±'
t
t
i
1
i
i
5
1      i
I
1
f
1
F
1
1
t
1
i
(i
t    7
{
1
i
i
t
i
~             '
i
I
f
4                 s
F

"Stay Juan, here is the St, Charles, a 'splendid establishment,'
also, let us enter."  Duval said, as they entered this luxuriant palace
on King street, where we will now leave them, and rejoin the
amiable Beatrice, some twohours:after.'"Returned to her home, a
noble edifice in the upper part of tee city; she is now informing her
father of having seen4Juan and Duval..
"Juan here ?" He exclaimed with astonishrdent, repeating her
words. " What evil'fate has sneit him here, so close upon-myrheels.
Can it be possible he yet pursues me, else"why does he follow me
thus so closely.: But leave me Beatrice, your company awaits(you
below,,1 would bealone."  '  '
"-Oh ! father what mystery, what evil hangs around your every
action-:-yourlife-"
"There, there, go my-daughter ; do not.question me, I' havenow
several letters' of importance to reply to, and would be alone."
The'affectionate Beatrice retired obediently. ,
Well, well,'this is news indeed,". Capello muttered, approaching
his desk.'°":Why'does that scoundrel haunt me thus? How foolish
I've been, aftet all, in not having him secured in jail for life, why
the'rascal, attempted to murderr ine, and 'I let him off; Tush, what
stupidity; and. he yet pursues me, ah, I shall not play with him
again, nor will I take .his 'life; no, I can put him away without that
risk, ha, I'll write an advestisement, insert it in two or three papers,
and ir that don't do the business,he=shallbe' arrested. Yes, zounds,
he shall go back into .slavery again,he's pluck too, to come back
hereas he his, right.into thie lioh'sden, to, to speak, but-"
The door opened and his servant announced a visitor in the person
of a member of the order of Jeshurune.
":Did he-send'his' nameG' Capello enquired of his-slave.
"Yea Sir Pafrone." '
"Show him up."
The '4oor closed, and' in, two.minutes more, Monsieur.Dafrone
entered The library, and was greeted by the smiling Capello.
Aha,' Monsieur Dafrone, youare the 'very gentleinan -whom I
have !just wished to see, I have.'a httle affair, in which you-can
assist me ; will you ddso ?'
"With pleasure--of 'what nature is the matterri"
"Be seated,-and I wil +pllyou. You see I'm going to-put these
few lines in the paper, and I wish you to act as'my deputy, in ry
place you'kiowtand atted to ?te applicants who 'may call in
referenee.to it. The person with whom 1 wish the engagement
effected, is known by the name-of Juan,'he hasplayed in most of
the Theatres at the North. 'You 'will have the applicants call at
your office, and you can just act in the matter as I farther direct ;
will you'attend to ittif 1so your reward shall be handsome."
isI will, with the greatest of pleasure."
Very well; I anticipate but little trouble in getting the proper
person. 'a
C

THE FATHBR AND HIS SLAVE SON.

60

, WAX-0tt,


61:

THE WHITE SLAVE

One week subsequent, as Juan unfolded the morning paper, that
had just been brought into the room by the servant, his eye fell upon
the alluring advertisement, which had appeared for several days.
without attracting his hotice, and the projector of the scheme was
about to abandon the design a ,a failure. Juan read it over at first
with but little interest, but every additional reading seemed to clothe
it with more of interest and reality. He folded the paper up, and'
sought his friend, Sinclair, whom: finding in his study, saluted him
with a pleasant good morning,.and placed the advertisement before=
him, saying:
" Read, and tell me what you thin of it.
Sinclair complied, and read, as follows;
Wanted,-Anaccomplished American Tragedian, for her Majesty's
Theatre, at Madrid, Spain; a handsome salary may be expected,
calf immediately at No--=Broad street.. The vessel sails in a fcw
-                  days.
"It reads very well; But do you think of applying for it ?"
" I do, will you go along ?"
"I will, and recommend youth to her Majesty's agent. For Huon;
Hamlet, and Othello, *vil take the Spaniards by storm; and your
Capello create a new era in the drama."
Come, come, Sinclair, what do you mean ?"
" Why the Looking-glass scene in Capello's parlor, at Philadelphia,
ha ! ha!'
"That was a crash, indeed, and no mistake."
" A scene sufficiently thrilling to bring the house down with .cries
The sentegice was broken off by a hearty laugh.from each of
them, and they started in search of the office on Broad street; which
after a few minutes walk they entered, and were greeted with the
blandest smile of which Monsieur Dafrone was capable. He invited
them into his private office, which was furnished in a splendid
style, more indeed like a palace chamber than a placeof business;
and which still confirmed Juan's good opinion of her Majesty's agent'
After inquiring thename of his new applicant, the hearing of
which gave him concealed gratification, he commenced out of ford,
to question Juan in regard to his capabilities, of, which he received
abundant and satisfactory testimonials ;:arid an engagement, at-ass
extravagant salary, was immediately effected. They took' their ,
leave ofIMonsieurDafrone,receiving withthankshis urgent solicitation
of paying him another visit before the vessel sailed.
In the meanwhile, Timothy Pillington, still revolves his delicately
cologned existance round the Continental, Philadelphia. It was
in the evening of .a "tedious, dismal day," which he had spent in
"trying on," his new suit of black, that Mortimore and Livingston,
were again' in his company.
"tWell Tim, to be social, howhave you ' put in the day?'"
"That's the question," laughed Mortimore.
"Well, aw, have a segar, be comfortably seated, and I will tell


62      3lK 1N                  T  TS

you." Timothy began, offering, them their choice of some very
good Havanas - " Aw, of the Ball last night, I suppose .1 need not
speak, but that was a superb affair."
"-I never saw Araminta appear so excessively charming, as she
did in the dance last night." Put in Livingston.
" She was exquisite, and complimented me highly upon my pro-
ficiency in the Polka,the Redowa, the Schottislie and Mazourka; aw,
in which I had the inexpressible pleasure of pressing her near my
heart. For I find reports are true,. and that she will come into
possession of her property on her next birth-day. But to the manner
in which I've passed to-day,--". awoke quite late, -ead a ortion of
Dumas' last novel; his views of society are charming, if-we could
only have a second Paris here I My dinner was brought in at three
o'clock, as usual; it is so vulgar to eat like common people, and
then I couldnot relish my food with steel forks, that is very common,
I prefer silver. But I forgot a circumstance that happened to me
last evening: As I was escorting Araniinta to her carriage, a man
stepped on my patents and soiled them; the man appeared embarrased
and begged my pardon; but I looked very fierce at him when I saw
h wasfightened and all passed off admirably,for I hadthesatisfaction
of hearing Arry tell her friend, how courageously I acted.".
"Well Tim, you will soon propose, will you not ?.1"
" Aw, yes, I shall bring matters to a close, shortly. Women are
truely Angels, and always tell the truth so delightfully. Arry com-
plimented me on my distinguished appearance, and said I looked
pale and interesting ;-the, secret was, that afternoon I had cleared
my complexion with Hauel .admirable reparation. Really that
Hauel is a benefactor to mankind. On Friday even Araminta
will be.mine." -..
"So soon, faith Pillington you are a lucky dog."  Ejaculated
Livingston and Mortimore in the same breath.
"I shall propose at the Opera."
*" Between the acts? could not select a more suitable or happier
place." said Mortimore. Livingston smiled, but said nothing.
" She has an excessive passion for the Opera, and at it she is so
elated,. that she will grant almost .any request made. I shall avail
myself of her most liberal and good-natured mood, when excited by
the music; and ask her to be mine."
"Charming, you cannot fail to possess her fortune and her hand."

CHAPTER XU.
THE DREAD.
On the morning following Juan's. engagement for her Majesty's
Theatre, at Madrid, he entered the apartment of his friend, his mind
evidently charged with some matter which made a deep impression.
And after their usual'preliminaries of the day, had sociably subsided,
Jnan began:
. "Hve you an faith in dreams, Sinclair ?"
"iNot much,".Sinclair smiled. Sometimes they may -foreshadow
coming events, I beleive they have been given as premonitors; but
they are not always to be relied upon as true. Why do you ask~so
singular a question ?"-
" I have had a dream, so singular, yet startling ; and which has
wrought such an effect upon my mind, that the impression seems
stamped indelibly there. Would you hear my dream "
."tIf you please, for now I perceive it has indeed produced an
effect on you since yesterday; are you not ill ?"
,"Not ill; but allow me to-tell my dream."
" Most willingly ; I am all attention, procede."
" Last night, Sinclair, I saw Cecelia, clearly as-I,ever beheld her
in my life.~ She was attired in white, and was kneeling, I thought
at the feet of that base villian, Lawrence, Livingston. I heard her
intreat him to redeem his promise; which he made to me-to her,
when he was in my power.-For the sake of humanity, for the love
of Heaven, and the unborn innocent, quickening in her bosom. She
prayed him to save her from self-reproach and shame, to redeem
his promise and make, her his wife. But with a withering curl' on
hislip and a frown on his brow, he rudely spurned -hdr from him
. yes Sinclair, while she yet clung to his feet, and with the deep
intensity of woman's love, covered his hands with kisses, and implored
him not to desert her-not to leave her to misery-to the scorn and
contempt of the scornful, to the bitterness of self-reproach. Her
long, dark hair, clustered over her prostrate figure, and her soft, eyes
filled with tears, were turned upon him, as the quivering dove, tuins
in its agony, its last gaze upon the vulture that destroys its life : 3 et
he coldly spurned her with his foot, turned on his heel, and left her
so her fate. That moment I would have sprang upon and strangled
him,-but oh,. Sinclair, that scene to me was real; I felt all the
indescribable horror, that I should have endured, had I been inclosed
in a room with them alone, and witnessed it with my natural eyes-
I would have destroyed him with a single effort, my will was good,
but--I lacked the physical'strength, an indescribable weakness, like
water, took -possession of my body, and I- seemed debared by an
inevitable decree from him, forever.- For several minutes I lay

Tas WAITS SLavu.


54                        saJn o0   .
upon my couch in the greatest mental anguish, ! felt the cold perspi.
ration, rolling down from my forehead, and my face, and presently
it started from all parts of my body; I trembled, and became chilled.
At-length I grew' comparatively calm, sad saw them again ; and
this time under circumstances more painful, if possible than the
former. I beheld them near, a d4ep stream of water; again she
was weeping at his feet. He gathered her up in his arms, evidently
with some devilish-intent ; she begged him to spare her life ; and in
her struggles-to get free, he 'stumbled, and she fell from him to the
ground. She had fainted; she layfor a moment unconscious, and
pale-as the whitest marble. The place was lonely, on each side of
the dark, deep stream, the.thickly foliaged forest started the shore.
He glanced rapidly around him, then hurriedly snatching her from
the;green earth; he bore her to the brink, and ere she revived, with
a powerful, murderous effort, he plunged her beneath the everlasting
waters  But, 0, Sinclair! Abis was not al),, I was doomed to see
her once more;'I thought the sudden plunge revived her paralyzed
sences,and with a wild andifearful shriek she sprang upwards. She
would have grasped the boat into which bewhad leaped,; but fiend.
like, he struck her with the oar, and she sank to rise no more. Her
innocent blood, purpled the waters momentarily, marking them as
the 'fatal spot where she went down. Sinclair, at the sight, my blood
rushed boiling and foaming through my brain; not content with
defiling her, he had 'now imbued his hands- in her blood, he was her
murderer. - My grasp was on his throat, and I felt the vile wretch
twist and writhe like a reptile at my mercy. Mercy!1 in that hour
I knew none. One effort like that of. an iron vice, and I felt every
bone of his body crushed in my grasp; I awoke, my room was
dark as Egypt's blackest night.' For a second, I lay reflecting, but
I could not rest; I arose, obtained a light, and paced my room, I
know not how long, for Ididnotthink of tirne,I only thought of Cecelia,
and her probable fate.".
"iAnd this you call a dream,, Juan you are surely romancing,; your
imagination has. gained the mastery of your judgement. You but
ftaincv-these things.n
"Call it romance or fancy, or what you please. These things
appeared to me last night, just as I have told you of them, and with
such fearful effect ; God grant I may never be called to witness the
like in reality. When I awoke, and found it but a dream, I really
felt an inexpressible relief; and .yetSinclair, I fearthereis something
more than a dream in this; I fear it -is; or will be sad reality: for
you know that Livingston,;vis a villain capable of almost:any crime
'But I again retired, and felloffinto fitful dozing.. I saw him again,
'under circumstances though diffeT-ent, 'yet equally dark and fearful.
He had fled-the city, and l became -thealeader of a. secretly leagued
Banditti, formed for crime. the most heinous, plotting wickedness of
both high and low degree, from'vice in the pulpit, deception in the
judge on the bench, robbbery and arson.-Thenight was impenetrably
dark and stormy. The starless sky hung over the earth; with a

1_

I

ents WHITE SLAVE.

,

-heavy, leaden hue, and in a spacious, dingy cave, I saw by the pale
light of a single' lamp, a company of men of warm temperaments
and diverse appearances ; among them, was Livingston. By the
earnest air, which seemed to shroud them like a spell, 1 felt there
was a deep scheme, or mystery at work in the heart of those thus
secretly convened round a large table,on which lay writing; materials,
and a number of partially written papers; while in another portion
of the cave,. I saw a large crucifix overturned. As. L wondered.
what their object could be, that they were thus assembled, in such
a place, and on such a night,-the heavy rain was pouring down in
torrents, the wind uprooting the stoutest' trees of the forest, and
field, and twisting off fences, raged a horrible tempest. The deaf-
ening thunders roared, rolled and-rattled along the globmy horizon,
while the flashesand streams of lightning, hissed and played through
the air, and along the ground, as - fiery serpents illummating with
frightful sublimity the vivid scene. I thought their. plotting was
againstthe uion of the Northern and Southern States. Their pretext
for disolution, the subject of slavery. After perhaps an hour's delib-
eration, they all solemly gathered round the rugged crucifix, and
forming a, circle, each person simultainously-lifted his right hand to
Heaven, and vowing eternal allegiance to each other, they swore to
use all their cQmbined and individual efforts to' overthrow the con-
federacy of 'the United States to separate forever, the South from
Jie North. I, trembled at their oath, and while I yet looked, gazed
upon a scene, the cold horror of which almost congealed my heart's
blood,-by some invisible power, their uplifted hands had become
motionless and stiff, and they were withered and shrivered to the
bone, each of them still pointed to Heaven, The men were dumb,
for though their lips still moved in blasphemous oaths, their tongues
clove to the roof of their mouth ; while their fierce revolving, eyes,
shot forth gleams of liquid fire, until each, ' straining ball of sight
seemed bursting from their head.' With an intense horror, I gazed
upon the scene before me ; presently I saw a thin, blueish smoke,
ooze out from their bodies, and curling above them, for several
minutes hid them from view, as it were, by a thin, vaporous mist.
'It cleared away, and the forms of the men still standing, their withered'
hands still pointing Heavenward, had changed to an unearthly black-
ness. Their eyes dropped from their sockets, their tongues consumed
by an inward fire, fell from their mouth, and then their flesh turning
a1ill blacker, drooped peacemeal from their bones, and left their dry
b!tached skellitons, standing round the fallen crucifix, and their bony
arns, hands and fingers, still pointing to Heaven. It was a strange,
a saddening spectacle, and shuddering, I closed my eyes upon the
scene. When I opened them again, all the former darkness of the
conflicting elements had cleared away, and the, silvery moon sailing
high in the Heavens, again gave light to the world, well nigh as
refulgent as the sun at noon-day. Over the cave; I saw, as if suspended
by the magnetic power of- attraction, the most brilliant constellation
of stars, gleaming through the transparent atmosphere with au,


.6

31A 'AN O   t

.t

eflblgence almost overpowering to the mortal vision of man ; in their
-clear, bright' center, and drawn to his full height, stood the majestic
father of his country ; his calm, benignant face, beaming forth in
God-like integrity, his divine consciousness of justice. Sinclair you
have seen the picture showing him on horseback, as he appeared at
the eventful battle of Monmouth, where the majesty of his presence,
his grandeur and. composure, stopped the retreat of his flying army.
and his firmness, almost divine, fixed the most brillant victory of hi
country's'arms. I have gazed upon that picture when alone, until
the bright halo of calm courage and valiant enthusiasm, enwreathed
his brow, and lighting the eye, has melted into divinity ; and as I
gazed upon Washington, thought I gazed upon a god. - Such,indeed,
Sinclair, he appeared to me last night, in the center of the bright
constellation of the American states. With his sword drawn to
command, he calmly pointed to a small black cloud in the Southern
portion of the heavens, from the center of which, and in characters
of liguid fire, glittered the warning-" Vengeance is mine, I will
-epay saith the Lord."     .
-"And this you call a dream." Said Duval, when Juan had
.recovered from the intense agitation consequent upon the recital of
his almost increditable vision. " It is truly startling, but for the life
of me Juan, I cannot rid myself of the thought that you must be
romancing."-
" Sinclair, ws my fate for the truth, to be that of thedisunionists
in the cave beneath the the burning vengeance of Heaven-I remem-
her correctly,-all the minutia of the ,scenes, as the strange panorama
of them passed before me last night, I could not shut it out. and
have given you my dream as it really appeared.'
"'Tis strange," said Duval," aye most marvelous."
"8trange but too true " .echoed Juan'.

"

I

filM WRITE 4LA yE.

67'

CHAPTER XIII..
DECEPriON.
One month later, -Antonia Capello received a letter stamped
from a popular post betwixt Spain and the United States. On
-receiving the letter he hastened to his library, and after securing
himself from intrusion, broke the seal' and read in substance as
follows:
February 23, 18-
Signor Antonio Capello
Dear Sir.--your instructions have
been fully carried out, and Juan is now carefully guarded on his
rapid way to Peru. He gave us- some trouble in his transhipment,
from my vessel to the one bearing him thither. The proposed change
led him to suspect something not quite in accordance with his previous
arrangement ; but we soon quieted him with chains and hand cuffs,
not, however, until through his efforts in the drama, he succeeded in
knocking one of our best men. overboad. Your favor is duly
received ; thanks.

Yours Truly,

Capt. Don Jose.

"Ha ! ha ! Juan in a silver mine of Peru, makes me at least one
hundred thousand dollars richer in security and comfort. Ah, Jose
you are an accomplished villian, and are deserving of a gener
alship for this last act alone. Juan in'Peru, secures to me a very
respectful distance from the murderous scoundrel; thanks to the
favoring tide, Dafrone and Capt. Jose, the thing is ' finally done,'
and I am free from care."
Thus chuckledCapello,overthe few lineswhich gave himnsuch assur
ance of his son's new bondage; while the afflicted and bruised.Juan
groaned beneath the heavy shuckles with which he was loaded, 'and
forced as a menial into a servitude more galling, if possible, than
the worst phase of Southern slavery. Driven down, hundreds of
feet beneath the surface of the earth and compelled to toil on con-
stantly, day and night,, without the remotest hope of escape. Such
was Juan's fate in one of the deepest mines of Peru.
Another month after he had been thus shackled, his unnatural
father received a large box of valuables, which was taken. from
ship-board, and carefully deposited by the drayman before Capello's
door on a fine afternoon in balmy April. A note was then placed
in his hands, hastily receiving which, he hurriedly summoned three
or four of. his vassels to convey the box into a large, private room
devoted especially to the storage of such goods. Capello had settled

J

0 *1


- 68                       JUAN Oft,
with the drayman, and entered the westward room to await t-4
deposit of the box there.
"What am dis ye have yar, Sam?7 Enquired one of the blacks of
a companion, as he descended the verandah.
You, ya, don't know Cezar, 0cept its more valuables. Phew,
golly, its putty heavy anyhow." Saidhe, as trying to raise'it, he
left the edge of the box drop very nearly on his feet.
"Clar out, you wooly-leadyou ;weak, you can't lift nothing, let'
me try it.'  Broke in a stout athletic negro.of the four.
He seized the box, and raising it some inches from the ground,
was boasting to his grinning companions, of his success and skill,
as Capello stood in the door frowning at their attempts.
What are you at there, you black rascals, bring me that box
here irpmediately, or I'll horsewhip every one of you."
"They all seized the box, and in three minutes more it was safely
deposited in the desired place.-,
"Now," said he, " tose the door, and open that back window,
and here Ciezar, take ths hatchet and let me see how carefully and
quickly you can open this box."                   f
Cezar, took the hatchet, and in ten minutes more, had the top off
the box and a portion of the packing material emptied out upon the
floor. And there in the box reposed carefully- packed, not a live
negro, nor the returned Juan, but a complete set of massive silver
plate; received by Capello from Peru, in exchange for his son. The
negroes scarcely knowing the nature, or rather the value of the
articles, but merely thinking them something "valerable," looked
seriously at each other, and waited in silence, their master's pleasure.
The plate was removed to a secure place, and afew days subsequently,-
Capello's mansion was the gay scene of one of the most brilliant
banquets or soirees ever convened in Charleston. At it were ^*
assembled over twenty members of his secret league, and many of
his, and his daughter's lady acquaintances of the city. And thus the
articles purchased by the bondage of Juan,-the rich, littering
gobblets conveyed the wine to the= lips of his foes, and the other
articles, dazzled beneath the many rich viands of the season, were
the subject of pleasure and remark among those who had so cruelly
conspired against him. But to avoid proving tedious to the reader,
we must again change the scene, and note events of a different nature
the past, occurring in another portion of the city.
It was a bright morning in the early part of April, and while yet
the celestial streakings of the rising sun had scarce begun to tip the
kity peaks of the eastern hills, and the chimes of St. S,.--were
sending forth their inviting peals, Iong ere they ceased, a female,
entered the large gateway leading to te proud lofty church, penitent
and sid. She' passed into the vestry, with humble down-cast looks,
and pressed towards the confessional, confessor Melville was waiting .
the penitent maiden approached and poured her soul of sincere con
fession into his listening ear., Her voice,. sinless as her own soul
stimed silvery and musical as the pure breathing of an angel. He-.

THE WHITE SLAVEOw
became deeply interested, and thought his first devotee of the.morning
was indeed a celestial from the upper world, for whose confession he
could form no penance. At a glance he ,drank in more of beauty
and real, loveliness, than we are capable of forming the rare being
before him. The sun never shone upon one more heavenly and pure.
His unrestrained passions,-at- the sight, grew inflamed. His foot
pressed mechanicaly on a secret spring near the floor, when ; ick
aZs the lightning she, was lowered down, down, far below the place
where but a moment before,'she stood with innocent unsuspicious
confidence. A. moment more and she was struggling in the arms
of her-base confessor. But-maddened by the insult, and strengthened
by the resolution of suddn.despair, not altogethe void of hope, she
with one boldeffort, pushed him from her, while his foot catching
the trail of his gown, he staggered and fell back heavily to the ground.
She cried loudlyfor 'help, but' the thick prison-like walls that now
inclosed her, were far too massive to be penetrated by her cries.
Quickly she sprang in all parts of her inclosnre in hopes of finding
some way of egress.,  In her wild flight she succeeded, as it were
by accident, her foot struck a'spring near one side of the apartment
and a small door quickly flew open before her, admitting into the
dingy ground chamber a 'stream of light, that for a moment, with
delightquite dazzled her sight. She sped joyfully through the welcome
passage, and gained the street. Reaching her home, she scarcely
Knew how, she kept her room 'closely for several days. Confessor
Melvillerevived, and at lengthquite.abashed, arose from hishumiliating
posture. Groaning deeply inspirit, he heartily bewailed the unpleas-
ant dilemma into which 'his weakness or rather wickedness had
involved him.
"Ah, I-should have silenced her while she was in my power,"
he muttered in regret. "Tush, I have made a bungling commence-
ment in my new calling. ,Foiled for once,--she-has escaped, and
will expose me; my only security now, is flight, flight !"
This wolf in sheeps clothing was Mulford Melville, alias Lawrence
Livingston, the murderer of Juan's sister, Cecelia. His intended
victim, this time, was.the lovely Adelia Duval.
But during the same 'time another scene progresses. On a little
frequented road, between the, city of Charleston and Columbia, a
handsome young lady is sporting on a fine sorrel pacer, her favorite
amusement and pastime, equestrianism.= Nearing a thickly, foliaged
wildwood, by the road-side, she carelessly gave the reins to the
animals neck, and herself strangely up to a reverie of pensive
reflections. She thought of her kind old uncle who had lately made
the present of the beautiful animal on which she was sitting. ,She
thought of him whom she loved yet, dearest than all, and for' a
moment -repined at the strange fate which seemed tokeep them
separate so long. A single tear coursed down over her cheek and
fluttered off unheeded in the'passing breeze. Suddenly the coming
locomotive sent forth a loud and far-echoing blast, which frightened
her horse, he bounded away at a fear gedlIop, She-grasped for


,fib

JUANO

the loosened reins, but missing them, clung only to his flashing mane,
now whipping and snapping in the wind. Her hat flew off, and her
hair becoming unbound. streamed in the wind in flowing luxuriance.
She grasped again for the lost reins, but the sudden jerk with which
she seized' them, turned the animal over into a large field, where-
reminding one of Mazeppa's firery steed,-=he fled away yet fiere
than before. On, and yet on he strode ovdr the field, endangering
'every moment, the more, the life of his precious charge. But starting
from the'thicket, bordering on the road-side, another enters upon the
chase, and flies over the field in rapid and splendid stride. 'Tis a
chase for life and love, for on the pursuing steed, sits him of whom
she thought, when her own trusty, steed: took to flight. He had
recognized in the fair one in danger, his late betrothed; and now
skins over the plane in ursuit, swift indeed, as the wind. A white
  belt of light gleams in te distance, it is the river, and hope in his
breast whispers wildly, of this as the goal of their mad flight. A
moment more, and his iereing glance, discvers between them 'and
the alluring 'stream, a horrible chasm yawning darkly to receive
them in a mangling death. With an impulsive shudder he drove his
spurs into his faithful steed, which starts him in the chase to his
utmost speed. He called to Louisa, she looked up, and catching a
glimpse of her imineint danger, uttered a piercing scream, and but
clung closer to the saddle. For a second his heart sank within him
but it was not the time to despair. Another moment and all will be
lost, a moment more and both horse and his fair rider will be-dashed
to pieces, and find a gloomy tomb at the dark bottom of a rugged
abyss. Once more he arose in his saddle, and driving his spurs into
the foaming flanks of his trembling steed, he dashed against the
breast of the runaway, on the very verge of the precipice, which
while it quivered and crumbled beneath their feet her animal checked
by the shock, sprang aloft on his hindmost feet, when the saddle
girth broke assunder,. and Louisa Duval fell back to the earth stunned
to almost insensibility. Her horse, in leaping front his haunches
again, sprang over the precipice, and falling, dashed himself to
pieces against tho rocks below ; he was dead and weltering in blood,
--but Louisa was saved; young Marston wheeled his horse about,
leaped off, and stood over her a moment, in the deepest solicitude.
There she reposed, pale as the whitest marble, saved from a horrible
death, as -though but to.sleep oi fprever upon the summit of a moun-
tain tomb. He felt her pulse, a weak beat yet told of a spark of
remaining life, and hope, almost despair, revived. He seized her in
his arms, and remounting with her, in his saddle, retraced his course
over the field some two miles distant to her father's house. But
leaving her thus in the tender care of her parents and her lover, we
must again change the scene of our story.         -
" Well, comrades, what think you by this time of our success with
Monsieur Melville, will he join us ?' Interrogated Martinar address-
ing some dozen or more others, in their place of especial meeting in
a reserved portion of New Orleans.

I

71

7ia waTE SLAVE.

as I believe he will, he has keen tried of late by several of us ; so
that with a little judicious perseverance, I think we will have hi'n
with us, in fact he has given me his word to be with us to-night."
Replied Dafrone.
"That is well-we may succeed then, but think you Monsieur
Dafrone, he will come to-night ?"
" He will." Responded promptly and firmly, a new voice, as
removing his. disguise, the villainous Melville, stepped forth from the
promiscuously assembled men. " I am here noble sirs, and await
your pleasure."
All started at cthe unning and effectual surprise. His hand was
grasped warmly by many of them, and  all proclaimed him quite an
accomplished member. They felt proud of his evident ability to
deceive and play the, jesuit adroitly.
"Give me your hand, Monsieur Melville."  Said Martinan, the
spokesman of that division of the " League."
"It is yours Signor Martin4n, and with it my heart also."  Replied
the accomplished villian, extending his hand. The peculiar -and
requisite preparation was now made to initiate Melville fully into the
secrets of the Order of "Jeshurune."  He signed his life-for the
promotion of their domination and rule. Another general congratula-
tionensued,afterwhich they appointed anothermeeting,then scattering,
vanished in the darkness without, which seemed so favorable to their
. iaca deains..


JUAN OR.

CHAPTER XIV.
S4RIUAGE.

Subsequent to Juan's departure from the city, but a few interviews
on the part of the youthful Duval,  with the ardent Beatrise, served
to rekindle with a far warmer glow, their previous limited affection
for each other. Their attachment grew sincere and they were soon
betrothed ; they were married. Signor Capello, despite his common
though fashionable follies, loved his proud daughter with a degree of
tenderness truly praiseworthy and amiable. Sinclair Duval was an
only son. Both families were rich, and the -immense wealth of each
seemedto be brought in conjunction in order to make the proud wedding
of the two loved ones, a brilliant display,, seldom surpassed or even
equalled for extravagance and splendor, among the aristocracy of
the South, oreven the nobility of Old Spain.
Married amid the dazzling cortege of her father's mansion, her
ay guests and smiling admirers, though numerous were select ; But
Beatrice appeared a Queen among them all. We neednot stay to
extol the orient-like banquet, the flashing of wines and the immense
glitter of the freshly imported silver ware. But leaving the bride
and groom, inexpressibly happy, we hasten on to note among others
an event occuring some three months subsequent to the glad wedding
The sudden death of Arrabella, mother of Sinclair Duval, came tc
them like a sad knell from the other world. Pleased with the evident
happiness of the newly wedded, their house had been the gay scene
of joy and feasting ; but now,that same mansionis thegroom shrouded
enclosure, of a scene how vastly different-death. The brightest
feature of good in the noble character of Sinclair Duval, was his
love for his mother. And not having yet cast aside his bridal attire,
he followed with his weeping bride, his mother to the tomb, in gloom.
Nine months more, and the mansion of Elmer-Duval, at Charleston,
was owned by him no more.-. He sold it, and with it a large portion
of his slaves. The ensuing autumn, he expended more than half his
wealth, inthe exciting political contest then raging for the disolution of
the union. It is net necessary to say that the union survived the stormy
conflict while Duvalwas compelledto turnhisplantation near Charleton
into cash. Signor Capello- was the purchaser, by which he came
into the possession of an additional number of slaves. He also
grew interested in thececession strife, but betting in the issue, simply
one of his favoriteQuadroons, and fifty of his plantation negroes, his
loss did not proveso great as that of Duvals.;
Twelve months more have passed away, and though prolific with
gloomy and conflicting events, they now lie buried deep in the vaulted
past. Our scene changes to a quiet and reserved portion of the city
New Orleans; the season is pleasant and a most lovely morning

THE WITE SLAVE.                    73
in 1ay. The sun just rising and striking aslant the half parted
blinds at the windows of the quiet marnsion house, seems to sport in
gay, fantastic rays, with his own bright beams, forming at once a
halo of brilliance, pleasing ad' cheerful. In the center of this scin-
tillation, and bathed in the perfumed light, smiles a lovely babe, just
having dropped into the hands of its mother, from the gentle source
of its happiness and nourishment. How sweetly for a few moments
doesit repose in the shielding arms of the mother, as in a girdle of
holiest love. The happy mother once more radiant with health,
seems watching the sleeping innocence of her fiat born, with the
.vigilance of an Angel, while smiling by her, side,, sits the happy
father. They are Sinclair and Beatrice. A few evenings subsequent
a scene quite different progresses. .
"Melville, you seem a lucky fellow, having executed that flourish
upon Duval's estates pretty well, what think you now, of'attempting
that little business up town, there eh ?" The speaker was Dafrone.
" Well, were it not for one thing, I would be prepared to undertake it
forthwith." Melville replied approaching with two or three assistants,
nearer to Dafrone. " But as it is, I think we shall have to defer it
a little, for you know Dafrone, I wish to make.a finished piece of
work of it. His silver and gold. alone, will never satisfy me, but
hark ye, we must manage to bear away his wife, also, for she would
prove a charming acquisition to our cQmpahy. By the way, Signors,
come nearer, did I ever tell you-of a pretty Miss I once possessed
in Charleston ? But what is one, many have I engaged since, believe
me ; but hush, a little affair proved against me, ifazied; she escaped
me, which hastened my flight to his place. But a truce to the past,
the present and the future are ours."
" Aye, the present, Monsieur." Answered the listeners in the same
breath.
"I was saying we should have the wife with us."
" But can it be done without much risk ? Is there any one moment
more propitious than another ?"
"Yes, hearken, I have ascertained that there are seasons when he
is called away on business to New York, or Boston or-it matters
not where. But if we can with equal certainty hit'upon the season
of his absence we are safe and secure of his old and wife."
'A good plan, and well given, Monsieur. Replied Dafrone.
The other listeners drew  closer round him; but after as few
moments.more of consultation, at Melville's suggestion they separated
for the evening, himself taking Dafrone by the arm, they walked
away, and in ten minutes entered a cafe where they further matured
their plans over the exhilerating fumes of a social little banquet.
But'we think, sudden as his transformation may have been, the reader
cannot fail to see in Monsieur Melville, alias Lawrence Livingston
the" finished villian."


74

Written in 1854. Howtrue in 1861.
CHAPTER XV________                                                       ____
nJTRBUTION.                                 -_______
SeVeral e renings later, and in their quietly appointed place of reserve   -                                               ~
and secret deliberation, a small number' of the membes of the       ____ov dcoN O a_
".Jeshurune League," convened ifrthe city of New.Orleans. [he
Order of Jeshurune, as has, already been:Intimated, was a mystic'or
i-religious combination of ennunited for the purpose of overthirovin~  -___
protestantism and Liberty, and gradually to subvert the present form'_-_-_
of government ,of 'the' UnitedStates: To many this .nay seera
silly and prOposterous idea, hut yet it is none the less true, that there
are menin our very midst, aje,:men who partake daily and yely
of our bounty, enjoy all the acred priveleges and imm~unities 'of
our free institutions, who aree also sworn most- avowedly to do all
in their might by every Jesuitieal-scheme and inaneiuvre to sop the
very foundation of our Republican fabt'ic, and thus destroy forever,
the purest principles of democracy in the New World. Democracy
in name merely, they ,fear not, but 'tis its pure spirit against which
they strive,; succeeding in this we'need'scarcely predict the Anarchal
consequences that must follow in-thedread wake of such a disaster.
Their evening we have alluded to, was one of especial. interest,
an4 though it was blustery. stormy 'and densely dark, yet. occuring
at a ;period when t" Secession";was rag ingthe hotest, to them itwas
a meeting of great importance.-Gradually -they'mustered one after
the toher'until'they nuinbered some' fifteen for eighteen, and went
into business. These fifteen orfeighteen men, thus meeting in secret,  r
rule in public the'orinataindluince'of twice'tei thousand men,on  (
the suhjets of, secession throughout-the South.-
As they interchanged plans for their future operations, the sparklingCwitn'
Champagne dazzled with exhileraiting witchery, as it passed in 'the
glass from-one to the other.  The gathering gusts of wind outside,                              /,-     .r
began to break around them in gloomy, and startling requiem. -The  -
darkness grew thickerand the rumbling of the' thunder from the                                    r
west, followed byheavy and fitful discharges of rain, gave the
unheeded token of theiapproaohin  natural conflict it still continued
to increase unnoticed ty the btsy  cessioniste irtheir secure place  2-
of deliberation, the mOre beore f fr undueintrusion by 'the Coming
storm. From som6 unaceoutitable causethe debate changed from"-
politics to' that of individual wealth which forma season grew warmi.
and high but 'gradually softened'down and was continued by but
two, of the-League,.though:the -wealthest of the- Order; they were
Signor Capello, and Elmer- Duval, whose private feelings towards
each other,had strangely undergoneof late a singular change; caused
-so m e  sa y ,  b y  th e  la te  m a rria g e ,  o th e rs  b y  th e  p u rc h a se  o f  D u v a l's,\s a\wc h  r  /  n i_- -
estates, in which there occurred a misunderstanding in.referea   -
- DANGER AND RESCUE


THE WRITE SLAVE.

number of slaves. And to-night there seemed to be a strong vidictive
tenacity in their argument, savoring more of an out and out quarrel
than a mere debate for pass-time. They grew warmer and warmer,
while the vivid lighteing flashed in their faces, with a purple and
a bluish glow; their countenances whitened with rage at each other,
and a number of the company, not to witness the unpleasant quarrel,
quietly withdrew, while those that remained failed entirely to pacify
or seperate the contestants. Their language grew harsh, eveh tounbear
able insult. stimulated by vengeance, their drawn  teels flashed simul-
D.aniously in the light, which by a sudden gust of wind fronghe door,
was blown out; and all for a second was shrouded in impenetrable
darkhens; and in the same instant, the whole sqene, by ,a brad flash
of crimson lightning, was turned into a sheet of blanehipg flame,
and all faces turned ghastly The lightning ejashed jsE ant their
brandished instruments of death,andfollwedwithacontinpous charge
of thunder, which sounded more deafenng than the  ehgrge of a
hundred canon, shattered the building into chges. 'l egr lodies.Were
found horribly mangled, and the two linives shivered into many
peices, while on a large stone, near by which the quarrellers stood,
was traced by the lightning, plainly as any human art could write-.
Vengeance."  To the present time the charred and shattered ruins
of the old stone house, remain a chaotic moment of teaGein's
displeasure,.an evidence -that '' God will not he onced; for what a
man sows. that shall he reap."  The bodies weyo gathere; by the
citizens, and quietly and decently intered
On a cloudy night in the month of October, and in the wealthy
portion Qf the Crescent .city, tree rien cad ii dark apparel, their
heads and faces shrouded in cowls, might have been seen prowling
abouta lrgemodern mansion,alongside of which,occupying the entire
-                                          front, a beautiful piazza extended in good old Southern style, whil
at the side or right wing, a large yard, or more properly a garden,
spread out before you, a beautiful prpspect of fruit trees, ppd flowers
of every eq9or.and perfume.
During the after part of the day, considerable rain had fallen, and
the atmosphere around our rosy retreat, seemed ad re with the
richest perf ure.
One of the three men, Ainally stepped up to the side entragee, and
fin g it unfastened, they all entered cautiously, and proceeded to the
rear of the quiet mansion.
" It smells sweet in here."  Whispered one to the other, as they
walked along the rose andbopglocd bordered walk, leaving which,
to theirrights few more steps brought them to the rearmnain entrance.
The leader quietly tried the door, and found it fast, he moved along
to another, which was also fist; he tried another. it ylded to i
presure.
t' Hearken, comrades," he whispered.  Either the trs are pro-
pitious, or a snare awaits us, so be prepared for the wort, and yt
theycould not have anticipated us, oar errand is jnown only to our-
selves-the fates favor us. follow." aying -which, and with their


JUAN G0.

weapons drawn, they all entered stealthily, crossed the first' room
and paused, when the leader partially opening a dark lantern, in an
under tone'said: 
" We all know our errand here; I beleive he is absent, now we
must first ascertain where she is, and if asleep well; while I content
myself with her, you will search the house, and return by the time
I am ready to decend. There can be no snare, be fearless anrd
brave."
They commenced to ascend the spacious stair-way, the soft, pliable
brussels of which, gave back not the least sound of their stealthy
approach. On they passed, scrutinizing closely as they gained the
suit of costly furnished apartments on the second floor. Pausing
a moment before a half open door, the leader, was about to spring
his lantern abain; but it was useless to do so, for as he carefully
opened the c amber-door. his gaze met a sufficiency of light for a l
his dark purposes. He pressed the door ajar, and thievissly glared
in; the light had nearly burned away. He turned towards the couch
and there lay the calm sleeping wife, unconscious of the close prox-
imity of the abducting Fiend chuckling with inward triumph, so
near her. In her protective embrace slept her darling infant. The
fiend peered further in, then drew back and in commanding tones
whispered to his two comrades:   .
"What you do, do quickly, get all you can, and hasten to return."
Taking the lantern, they disappeared; but after the absence of
about thirty minutes, he feasted his gloating eyes on the rich masses
of gold and silver ware, jewellry, &amp;c. "'Tis well," he said, and
glided into the quiet Chamber of his innocent victim. With the-
stealthy step of a cat, he crouched towards the head of the richly
cunained couch, drew forth a small plaster, and pressed it quick,
and hard over her mouth and face. The shock awakened her, she
opened her eyes, but closed them instantly aoain in utter darkness
and unspeakable horror; and while she writhed and struggled in
painful convulsions, he raised her in his strong arms, and hastily bore
her from the room. She attempted to scream, but could not, and
she trembled and shivered in his vice-like grasp, as he carried her
down the stairs, followed by his accomplices. Tramp, tramp, they"
reached the yard, and were bolting clumsily,though stealthily enough
through, just as a figure emerged suddenly and hastily, from the
darkness of the opposite side of the quiet street, and encountered
them at the gateway.
" Who goes there?" He exclaimed loudly.
"Sacre !" Gritted the foremost one of the three in rage.
" Speak quick, or I'll fire," the stranger continued. Just at that
moment, the affrighted woman, forcing the plaster from her mouth,
uttered a loud shriek.
"Draw and sheath your daggers in his heart." Commanded the
leader robber, ,in foaming anger.
" Beatrice I" exclaimed the stranger, and ere they could . draw
with success agaii t rim, fired, ar4 her abductor fell across the

avenue, dead, without a groin. At that instant, the moon sailing
from behind a cloud, cast hersilvery light athwart theiisavagely drawn
weapons. With madness and a howl, they rushed upon him, but
ere they could harm him, he had fired again; and at the fourth dis-
charge, the three assassins lay bleeding at his feet, and his rescued
wife fainting at his side.
Bearing her in his arms, he entered his dwelling in the greatest
consternation; the servants were just being aroused, and all was
confusion and. excitement. Leaving his wife in the care of his
servants, he seized a light and hastened out to the scene of blood and
death. There lay beside the three corpses their plunder, scattered
about the avenue and yard. When he returned to his wife, she had
recovered from the fearful effect of her fright. They were soon
joined by two or three of the patrol, who having heard the firing,
hastened with considerable difficulty in finding the place, of the
scene of distress. Stumbling over the dead bodies, they entered the
dwelling, and received in brief detail, the true phase of the matter
from the husband, Sinclair Duval, as he had found it on his return.
The consequence was, that by a coroner's jury he was fully acquitted,
it-being sustained that he acted solely in self-defence, in the protection
of his wife and his property.
True, as the robbers had surmised, Sinclair was absent, but they
little thought, that by his anxious wife, his return was hourly expected,
hence the rear entrance lleing left unfast, and the burning lamp
was in the wife's chamber awaiting him. He thus returned in the
proper nick af time, hence the attack and defence as we have given
it. The stolen gold and jewelry, was taken care of. and the three
men examined. The first one uncloaked was M. Dafrone, the
Jesuit and Secessionist; the second was a' younger man, a member
also of the" League." They approached the third, who wore not
only a cloak, but a dark mask also. Removing the cloak, theylifted
the mask from his pallid face; his attire was black, while a soiled
white cravat, circling his neck, contrasted strangely with his dingy
disguise, and the plundering circumstances, under which. he was
found. As they passed the light still closer to his death-marbled
face :-
" Heavens !" Exclaimed Beatrice in the greatest surprise, "how
is this, what means this mystery ? Lawrence Livingston a bandit
a thief, an outlaw ? just Heaven, how changed 1"
It was true, the unmasked assassin and plunderer, disclosed unmis.
takably, the features, and person of her old acquaintance, Lawrence
Livingston, the murderer of Cecelia, the accomplished roue, and
priestly hypocrite, alias Milford Melville. All were astonished, but
after their surprise had abated, the three men were quietly buried,
as malefactors deserve.
Within a small inclosure of wild-briar and thickly foliaged .trees,
situated near the romantic borders.of the Ashly river, and within a
mile of the city of Charleston ; two men met for duel, the cause of
which was developer at a ball a few evenings previous. in the fol-

*1

IF

THE WHITE SI AVh.

77


78

sTAN oI,

lowing manner. One of the genilemei not satisfied altogether with
his own lady, took occasion to express in an enthusiastic strain, his
deep adoration for one whose hand was already engaged to another,
tis present antogonist. Henry Darnell was a young lieutenant,
frequently off duty,. -takiing the-privilege of flirting with Araminta.
pouring in her charmed ear, the honied words of love; and pressing
his suit with it aridue degree of perseverance. Timothy her spirited
oetrothed' detetmih&amp;d to be revertged , very carefully 'wrote on a
dieet of d6iecately  cehte'd and tinted paper, a challenge to Mr.
Datridll, sk riig strongly of birlletrand bloodshed. It was accepted,
.tid they nsit to 0rove by powder ahd ball, the predominant right
if orie or the they to the rnitohless Ararriinta. Pillington and his
4ecdnd, Muizf 14lorttiniot, vwer promptly on the spot, and Timothy
hinted aiisusly to his ffiefid, of taking his foe by surprise, arid not
.allow himself tl staid a tatget for the scientific aim of the ball of
.nis  at onist.
"lut here conies the scuip ifbW:" Said Muzzy.
As tari I)arniell's batauehe appeared suddenly in the enclosure
)f the dense thicket, and stopped soene fifty paces from them:
TImohep cobl, aid be brave, make good use of your nerves
Timothy."
"A*, my lIeavis, let me fire now, Ani save my life." Said
timothy, With coisiderable eatitenent.
tNay, Pillingiton, act not so cowardly. Command your metal,
and stand up and inet him like a iran, honorably"
Harry Darnell sprang lightly frot his carriage, neatly attired in
a pretty blu4dress of his 'iuteiitenny; his boat fitting him closely,
was buttoned up tightly to the neck, and on his head rested a neat
blue both a   ile a he turned towards his second, his gold
encasd sw*  , and silver mbtiited pistol, flashed and glittered in the
sub,
"Tit you have fight hi h"
"1 an ready to send=='; Muzzy; suppose I get killed, what
will bedorne of pbor Arry? O Muzy, Muzzy 1"
"My    od; Tirh, doi't faint, Or aou will be sure to get shot ; here
take some of this, and it will steady your head."  Said Mortimore,
xtendiig hiri a bb618 .of good btirdy. Timothy placed it to his
lips amid dfirdtig'hi small ig4ed ftifge towards Heaven; swallowed
what might, without -e*gstatibh be termed a full five finger tody.
H   ding badk the bottle withi adifgh he said:
o  it ~y giV iit  y  r h4ad, I'think I'm ready. 0, Muzzy; take
mylast arewell o Arryndther I proved true-"
wl:' Replied  ortheore'
Go -speak t his friend?' Said Darhell to his second, who
immediately left his side, and approached Mortimore to arrange
preliminaied necessary on, sunh oceaSiofs.
" What is his choice of-di tance.'. Said he to Muzzy.
"Thirty.five paces."

THIu wrTE SAYS.

79

}
i
I
#}
11

They stepped it oft and in a few m' tes more, aftr taking leave
of each otherthe combatants stood'i theirallotted places, Mortimore
extended Timothy his pistol, whieh the latter relieved timidly, letting
it almost drop, soon as it tonehedlhis hand.
".Tut, tut, Titn, it is time to be in earnest, and lay aside this
trifling, for I don't want you shot on my hands, no how."  Said
Muzzy reproaehfully.
.Goodness, gracious, Muzzy, I have not thought till this moment,
this is the first time I ever handled a pistol , O, Muzzy, Muzzy, is
there no other way to settle this ?"
" There is i but Tim you have got to fight now, as you have pro-
gressed so far.. You shall not trile with me in this manner, get me
to come out here to aet as your second, simply to exhibit your own
cowardice, and make an ass of me. No, Tim, you must fight."
0, iny God, Muzy ; think, I have never fired a pistol in my
life. 0, if Arry only knew this, it would prove her death. o,
Muzzy, Muzzy, what is that word that quieted the late slave agitation
in congress ?"
' Compromise, you fool !"
"Compromise, that will settle this afihir, without us shooting one
another ; tell him Mui, I don't ;*ant to shoot him, tell him I will
coinprotiiise."_
"How      can von omtproise honorably? the question of dispute
between you, is the possession of Ararnita, who will prove a fortune
-or life, to whoever possesses her. .Are you willing to relinquish her
giving up forever al claim upon her'!i you are, then I've' nodoubt
you cancompromise, one sided and unfair as it may prove."
-Relinquish Aramintal! no Muzzy, never, Araminta or death;
sounds, Muzzy, I will fight."
The ,time was called, and the weapons levelled at each other.
Timothy trembled from head to foot. The word was given, and
Timothy reeled and fellto the earth, fortunately, unharmed, though
he knew not whether he was dead-or alive, hi had fainted completely
away. Darnell also,-remained unsohattered, Timothy's ball having
passed through the cap of Harry's second. Mortimore ran to',the
relief of his friend, and asertaining hastily, that he was not wounded;
he dashed nearly the entire contents of the brandy bottle in his face,
and bathed his temples and brow, until he revived. . The first words
that arose to his lips, after he recovered, were---" 0, Arryl--1uzzy !'
We must now acquaint the reader further in regard to our, and
Pillington's friend, Muzz Mortimore. Having filled the position of
the black-mouthed sean ai-mongr, in Philadelphiauntilhe became
universally known and scorned, he succeeded by dint of deceit, in
disposing of his two penny "Eye behind the Scenes," he started
South, on a tout of private speeClation, for the rancid abolitionists
In a word, he lectured on Slavery, and assisted the slaves, when he
could, to -escape. But on an occasion,-+subsequent to the duela~da
which he unwitingly, attempted to depict in, all their dark and squalled
coloring. the wanton cruelties of African Slavery, he was very

J. %


14u      .UmANR,.
anceremoniously struck in .the rear,-with arr article of wood, closely
resembling a rail, in the hands of a company of the sporting, "baser
sort." A  it struck Muzzy, it followed the well directed course of
its conductor, and glancing aside,it appeared between his trembling
pins," in the front, where it was ,seizedEby the other half of the
companyand hastily elevated to their shoulders, allowing the lower
extremities of Muzzy, dangling in the air, far above the hooting,
huzzying crowd. Poor Muzzy, quivering in every fibre of his body,
with fearful apprehension, grasped the rail, and clung to it with both
hands for dear life, fearful of falling headlong to the street below,
where, should he not kill himself in. the fall, he would run a great
chance of being trampled to death by the aroused populace, who,
both white and black, were following him with terrible bellowing
confusion,.groans and hisses. Some laughed and jeered the fanatic
abolishionists, while others, cursing him as ;the representative of the
whole of them, threw stones, clubs, dead cats, and " bad eggs" at
him, with a terrible vengeance, bruising his body in a painful manner;
n-the midt of which, he yelled to them at the top of his voice, to
only spare his life, and he would leave, and never desecrate their
soil again. Amid a renewed rourid of huzza's, they suddenly stopped
in the centre of a large field, without the least admonition, they let
him drop to the ground, until he howled with very pain. But they
seized and stripped his clothing from him, when two large negroes,
taking thim by ;the shoulders and hair, and two more his feet, were
commanded to plunge him in the large tub of, Tar, which had been
freshly prepared to recieve him; it covered every inch of his body,
nearly suffocating him.,. They then turned from the tar, and with
the 'same grasp tossed him into a massive heap of small, light, downy
feathers, and rolled him over and over, until they saw he could
endure it no longer, when, they assisted him to his feet, and again
elevated on the sharpest edge of the rail, where he presented indeed
the novelest bird in all creation, the most ludicrous biped, ever feath-
ered.. Their noise: an4V sport now was terrific, which they kept up
with frightful clamor, :until they reached the river ; where, after
making preparations to rescue him from drowning, they plunged him
head first overboard; he struck the water with an awful plunge, and
after sinking. twice, he was drawn out, and christened "Moses."
As he once again struck on terra firma, he begged for his life most
pitiously;--
"Oh, for God's sake men, allow me to leave, do not kill me quite,
let me go I".
"That we are now ready to do, so prepare to obey orders, and
never exhibit your ugly "mug," in South Carolina again."'
".Never; '0, never." -Muzy gasped..    .
" Well, now, right about face,,and stand do North ; .that's it, now
propel locomotive, as fast as hell will let you, or the next thing you
hear will be the yelp of the hounds after you'- So locomote. icy.
hey, l'urra, ha, ha, ha.!"

TE WHITE SLAVE        ,    81

He did "-locomote," fast as his feathered limbs would carry him.
He ran, but whither he knew not, he only knew he was leaving his
worst enemies ; so he sped on, on, over field after field, until he could
proceed no further, but nearing a road, he sank down exhausted,
beneath a large tree ; He groaned, and wept, and fell asleep.' Whe n
he awoke,-the sun was shining down upon him, in all his meridian
strength. He arose to his feet but his head ached to such a degree.
that he reeled and fell against the tree, to the earth, where he lay i n
unconsciousness- until- aroused by a teamster who chanced to pass.
that way. He approached. him first with great caution, or to us o
his own remark, he did not know, until he spoke, whether he was a
human being, or a large bird resembling the Ostrich.'Muzzy aroused
himself as well as he could, and informed the inquiring teamster of
the cause of his present uninviting appearance. His first:prayer was
for something to assist him to remove from him his unpleasant coat-
ing of Tar. Water he knew would but add to its cohesion to his
body; but the generous teamster readily suggested-a plan and an
article, by which it could be removed; It was his pot of grease
which he always carried swinging under his wagon, and which he
proffered to Muzzy with his assistance to " peel" off the stuff. pro
viding it did not delay him too long on the road. He commenced
by besmearing the unfortunate Mortimore from head to foot with
the grease, until, as he stood .erect, he glittered in the sun like a new
"black mug."   At length, with a degree of joy, to Muzzy, of
greater magnitude than that exhibited at his birth, they succeeded
in releavine him- of nearly all of hid unenviable suit of black; but
he was without clothing, the teamster, however, did all in his power
to supply him, he gave him a pair of " Qveralls," with which the
mortified Muzzy encased himself, took his leave of the good'teamster.
and struck across the fields towards the nearest boat landing. in North
Carolina. --It happened to he not so near as he had vainly hoped, for
he travelled the remainder of the day without reaching it, and ight
setting in, and there being no dwellings within sight, he once again
betoook himself to the inviting shelter of a stately tree. Selecting
the 'softest stone" he could find for a pillow, he once more latid
him down exhausted, to:rest. The 'night, after drenching him with
a good, refreshing, southern shower, of which, however, he knew
nothing until next day,-passed away, and four or five hours of the
following day. When he again opened his eyes, he looked dp, and
not the bright canopy of -Heaven, nor the good old tree where he
had lain-but the neatly white-washed ceiling of a comfortable
chamber.
" Where am I l" was his first thought. He attempted to raise up
from the couch to'satisfy himself, but found himself so weakened by
his late ill-luck, that he fell back powerless to the pillow. " My God1
Pm somewhere, that's certain, and alive, but 0, how sick."
A stranger approached the bed-side, in the person of a beautiful
Quadroon slave. She was his attendant, appointed to take care of
him, and minister to his wants.

I.


I

CHAPTER XVL

H Lay still, and be quiet, massa; 'tis nassa's orders." Said ihe
with diffidence.
" Where am I t and who is your master? tell ne, whose hotse
ari I in?"
91You're in niassa Goodmran's house, he found you early dis morn.
ugr down'in do swamp, undet a tree, And took you in till you get
well, and he tell me I must watch you, and when you wake to give
you something -to eat."
"Odbless you, for I am almost famished, so do if you please,
Ad tell your faster, Mr. Goodman, I would like to see him, that I
nay thank him for his  kind treatment, 'tis the first I've recieved for
several days."£.
"She hurried from the room, informed her master that the " gerr.
men Was awake," and son was on her return with a large waiter,
containing a wholesome and refreshing repast for her patient. Mr
Goodman entered the room with her, and approached the bed-side
of the sick man.
"Well, Sir," said he humanely, "you are recovering, I seer and
am happy to find you s ; for had you remained uitill now, where
you were last night, and part of this morning, you must surely have
perished."
"My dear sii, we are strangers, but you have saved my life, and
therefore I cannot be too grateful to you for your generous and 4is-
interested regard; for thisuntill Iamn able to render a more substantial
return, hod bless you!"  said Mortimore with tears  He was, the
first time forb many years broken u1, and penitent. -
Stay r   no tanks, *o thanks- I have done my duty, in assist-
ing a fellow creature from misery and distress, and probably, death.
No thanks, but add to my pleasure now, by partaking freely, of this
meal, it will strengthen, and refresh  u."
Mr. Goodma was one of those £lanter so often met with through
out the South. le was humane and generous, everything about him
bespoke wealth, health, happiness, and comfort. His slaves, though
he would ownbut afew,he educated andtau httorespect andreverence
the true spirit of ehristiarnity-"Good *il toI.' l And unlike some
of his neighbors, he believed his slaves to be human beings, and so
rewarded them. Muz    Mortimore' ate heartily of the meal Set
be ore hii, was arrayed in a much better suit of clothing, and was
goon on board the cars for the North.

88'-

,in the di~e while, after sdffdrkig far more than the Iit dapabte
(f desdieig, afid after Waitig atleas eigha months fdt his uduees,
Jan thinaeOd by a- carefully hateured stratigerni to efreet his escape
ttom the siai' thihe if Whirh he wa eS treacherously inereerated,
aid whleh *ell ,i h proved his et rhal tomb. Released from his
Moyse' tht-t pi'ri=hoUse bandage, by sciceting himself during the
day, Aid tra elli  m by right in disguise, utitl he found himself beyond
tIhe dorfitea of *heie he was likely to be detected, he finally after
migny sore trrel5 afid  uel hafdships, reahed Havana, where after
+e iaiifi g a few datys to -teadl hi stefigth, atid refit "d person, he
engaged passage in a °thul cabdbodt to ai-ftt the United States.
AfeWnfidedaVd*d t  oitefed  Afd i4 nd  - &amp;beautiful af ettnfa they
Gassed6d of the hay and einteredotheir Voyage fortheUnited Statesa
. he vessel, though e rfi table; Wa tall;' aid Woulddtary but a
idiited hukhbet of passdtger5, aming whoix ia the present niprthere
eze three l idid, the f6t Wete Men. the captain as a tinddle
aged man, of swarthy boiplemodi and of Spadish' origih, he coma
'ataed the little craft in Which he f ow tailed f tn a -unber of
-vedri. lis riaie Was Cararco', to his esstsh e1 ge the name of
hid Wile, hsal. His nirew was made up of Spahiarde and Americans,
nid itw     o h0g&amp; slaves. Dring thei± first d y out, Juan did not
O stir hitsel mriudh, he had been sorely fatigued, and the dancing
..1 the Vessel 'oef ' the fdahiing *Waves seemed to prove a soothing
iailii'  t his' aching body. He kept his rootn partakig also of a
alh, rieshihg sleep: O the a eid day, he miingled more with
El paieager', j14 thus ido  arnmber of neW  acqaintances,
a sang thcer lhe ladies bdf6te lehbtioned, one of whom u Ibund to
be ar ititeigent afrd aniable Creoe maiden, who was 1i totapany
*ith hOt father, sailitig to Artiioay With  view of making it thet
her tuother had died and he was -onning in search of a luted
biroihe, Who h d preceded then on their journeys -E$he was a
beu ti hl girl,- scarielf eighteen, possessing all the cha es, and
bewitching endedtmnents of her 'dad'k.eyed Olive race: The feelings
of eat thflilled sttaigelf, aid 6teir eyes iglafced thou htSa their lips
trembdd to eaek. Jel ti loVed the beattif l lIe, and at the sound
of ht' soice of passkai her eipture soul thltit ihld *Wllingniess ard
trust.  Their confeI'ehces aduot re nie fteqent' And thus
While dat by day Juan is   rapted tip in the serene and uni.
aloyed aftetlotih-f the beautiful girl, his sol in the' blest vision
firgets all the past"'" Joy quickeis hieapulses alihis hardships seem
o'er.I" Towards a clear, calm evening, Whet about two days

-rHE WRITS SLAYS.


sail from New  Orleans, whither they were bound-the scenery
around- them was picturesque beyond the power of language
to portray-the whole company were on the deck of the Isabel,
admiring the sublime beauties around them; on one side, or rather
by themselves, stood Juan and Inez. Around them lay the broad
expanse of waters, calm and unruffled as a glassy lake. From the.
west the setting sun shone forth in a flood of Vermillion light, that
sheetedthe Heavens apd4.the sea in a vast mirror of- pellucidbrillancy
which tinted the skimming sea gull as ever and anon he darted up
from the reflective waters, -with all the roseate mellowing lustre of
the rainbow. An hour passed away, and the monarchof day, "behind
the .light crimsoned hills of the west, sank proudly to rest."  The
Isabel still sailed on, and steered quietly through the waters at a
moderate rate. Presently, where the sun disappeared, a small
dark cloud was seen to arise, and as it ascended to the arch of the
darkning horizon, it gathered in blackness, thickened in density, nd
expanded until the whole heavens hung over the sea like a vast
covering of black marble over a tomb. Gloom! gloom! seemed to
be the onlyfeeling to which the heavy atmosphere gave pulse. With
a universal feeling of speechless awe, all on board the Isabel, save
the captain arnd crew, turned to their berths, or the Cabin. Hastily
the vessel wasprepared to encounter the corning storm, which soon
broke over therm in all its fury. The sea that before had been com-
paritively calm, now lashed into foam, and while the shrill voice of
Boreas blew around them the hurricane gale, the high roaring waves,
dashed over the laboring Isabel, with wrecking violence and strength,,
filling all hearts with dismay and their trembling breasts with prayer.
The loud, dirge-like groan of the spheres, rolled gloomily above
them in the thunder's sullen rage, led 'on by the lurid glare of the
lightning's incessant flashes, dancing over the turbulent waters, as
countless death torches, but to light ahd allure them into engulphing
destruction. For several hours the little craft darted over the waves,
with her precious charge of human life, and rode the storm with
something like living hope to those on board. But, ah !- luckless fate,
hapless joy,the intoxicatingchalice, is destined soon'to be dashed from
their lips, and.the lightning's red glare but prove their wild escort to
the vast hidden depths of the fathomless abyss. By a sudd-en, and
powerful lurch, the Isabel was tossed on her side and ere she could
be righted, filled, foundered and sunk.; How shall we describe the
fearful shrieks of that little band of human souls within her, as, they
fel :her descending down, and down to the horrible silence of the
deep. Amid the thuntler's.loud crash, the lightning's peireing glitter
and the fierce wind's wild, howl,. they sank down unheard, and
"the death-angel flapping his broad wings over the wave," shrouded:
them in eternal sleep. But twohours later,.and by the moon's pale
beams, two survivors of the wreck were seen floating and found:
ering about the dark waters, seething and boiling, yet with their late
conflict. They were Juanand Inez.. As the' Iabel went down, her
planking broke, and some of it parting assunder, proved thank Heaven

I

87

I

+4

I

THE WHITE SLAVE.

e

a kind of raft upon which Juan and his Creole maiden were now
floating; all save these have perished, and thus for twenty-four hours
they foundered over the surf and foam of the angry element, that
had swallowed in death their late company-until when about six
hours sail from the city of New Orleans, they were picked up by
  an outward-bound vessel, the captain of which kindly consented to
'bout ship and land them in- the crescent city. Arrived there ahd
 communicating the news of the wreck, and the saving of but two
out of seventeen to tell the tale, naturally drew around them for
several hours, quite a crowd of interested inquirers, and gaters whose
only impi se was curiosity. On the knowledge thatthe two survivors
had lost all, becoming known among the gathering crowd,"a'sub-
scription was started by some philanthropic gentleman among them,
and quite a snug sum was raised and handed over to Juan, to appro-
priate to the necessities of himself and companion. - He received it
with heartfelt thanks, while the fair Inez, as she stood by his side,
could express her feelings for tile voluntary kindness, only in, many
tears of gratitude. After this, and the captain who had picked them
up had cause to be thankful by the reception of a handsome present
tendered him by the same persons who acted so liberally towards
Juan and Inez. When he left the pier again, to pursue his voyage
out, it was amid the greatest cheering, and the many good wishes
of those who so loudly saluted his departure. Juan andthis companion
had nearly succeeded in making their way through the dense throng
which had crowed around them, when he was surprised to encounter
th 'enquiring gaze of his early friend, Sinclair Duval, they met face
to'face, and for a moment of uncertainty which grew painful, gazed
at each other. Juan was the first to recognize his friend, in an instant
he rushed to embrace- him, calling him by name, he was likewise
remembered.
"1Why, Juan, is this indeed you or do my eyes decieve meI? It
is, as I live, my friend Juan I"
"1Sinclair, how oportune to meet you thus-my name was Juan
once, but I have changed so since, .I know not that I am the same."
"What has happened-and what means all this throng following
you ?"
"0, Sinclair, surely Heaven has sent you to meet me ! This is
my companion in a portion of my dangers, if you will conduct us
to a dwelling, where I can tell you all, I shall be most happy to do
so.. Fsay.cs, for where I am, I wish her to be also; her name is
Inez."
'Sinclair bowed politely to the beautiful girl, and moved towards-
the city, accompanied by Juarrand his happy betrothed. -'The sudden
surprise upon meeting Juan was suchon. Duvars mindthat'for'severa.
minutes, .unable to collect himself, he;did not think of Juan but as
an-old acquaintance or friend, the thought that since his absence, he
had become a relative, a close relative, to him, did, not s yet enter
his mind. But as they hastened alongtalking upon various matter

86

JUANoa,


I

$8

JUAN OR,

and when Juan asked him if he was living in the Atty, and if he ; as
Sf3RIED yet, he started in a mag of astonishment, induced by.anew
train of Ah!gggts, opened by J a n's last question
"iye ;ns, Juan! forgive rue thisastupidity. What do I not forfeit
by . I everthoght until this moment, we are relatives, Married,
an4etrice is my wife."
1 aid surprised, yet not :much, the, surprise is agreeable, and I
g  thakffl that we are thius related. Sinclair I wish you all hap-
p eeh_ senes of su a ring and charge through which I have
Passe4Ve chsged rmy a ed,-materially, from what it was. I am
now   a iteredsan, and thisenoment.I feel if Beatricewouldreciheve
SIwp m throw myslf 4e   y peniteatat her feet, and supplieate
her forg vnvs #r all ta l,.aye ever thought and acted against
her.  h  nelarwould she relieve me               ag i
" She would, most gJe4ly, forher feelings, alsohave undergone
very great change twarcds you,since you left, from which cause we
may:speak anon,; but here we are'.at the door, this is mr home.
what surprise "
-eaying he entered his own mansion, inviting Juan and the beap-
tiful Inez to follow. They stepped into the hall filled with emotions
pecuiar and strange. Beatrice was not in the parlor when thy
entered; but Sinclair, ringing a small bell, summoned a servant, who
soon formed his mistress, in another portion of the house, that
his master was awaiting her presence in +the front parlor. She
descended, and entered the room; her eye ?in an instant passed from
one person to the other, till resting upon her husband solicitous of
fn explanation. Change of climate, and the severe privations con-
sequent on being immured in the slave -mine of Peru,,had -wrought
eh .a change upon Juan,,that she did not know him. Juan, likewise
though scarce able to suppress his emotions, prompting him to fall
at her feet,;seemed to wait Sincla 's introduction; he saw this, and
controling his own feelings, he made outto stammer:
:"Beatrice you must pardon me for this-surprise, it could not be
prevented ; for ace it has thus" been happiness to me, I knowthat.
I would not present it if I could. Do you not remember Juan?. the
lady Inez is an acquaintance made on board ship, while on their
way to this city.. They have been ship wrecked  "
He ceased speaking. and Juan and  Beatrice were in each othre
embrace. They wept tears of deepest contrition, and the beautiful,
sympathetic lnez joined in. their joy. But soontears gave place-t o
hearty congratulations. of peace, gladness and good will. That
evening's repastiaas more happy and lively than their evening meal
had been for several month. ,Theirlttle banquet over, and a ;scene
occurred, if"possiblestillhappier, the union ini the sacred -_irlet ot
marriage, of Juanandthis spanish betrotbed. At eSinlairdareq uest,;
affectionately enforced by thekindieart of Beatrice, theceremony
was perfordied in their ownhouse, te whidh, tof course they added
their presence and also a-splendid entertainment. a trwas indeed, a
happy scene, particularly the charming Inez, even though her thoughts

I

THY wIE SLAVE. -

89

intervals reverted to the late.perilons situation on the sea to whids
sne- was exposed, but from which she had been saved by him who
was now her husband. She h*ed lost her father in the wreck, iad -
followed her mother to the tomnl while yet quite young, and seemed
almost alone in the world; but as the wife of -Juan she was happy,
for he seemed both husband and father, all in all to her. A large
portion of their honey moon was passed in the mansion of theDuyas.
Sinclair took an early occasion to inform- Juan of several, eents
which occured during his long absence. They were closetedtogether
one day for two or $hree hours.
" Well,.Juan," said Duval as they entered and seated themselves
iii a private apartment of his house. "What in the world did you
do with yourself in Spain, did you enter her Majesty's serviee,or did
the published card prove no more than what I afterwards suspected,
a mere ruse to entrap you I  ive -me an account of your sventf!4
doings since you left."
"ThatSinclair, I can never do in language sudficientlycompre
hensive, to: convey to you the extreme depth of the sufterigs,
anxiety and torture I endure, and a miracle it is, that lam alive to-
day, for there was a time I did not expect this, yea, prayed that
death might prove to me a messenger of mercy, and rid me of a
life that had, become to mie, in the n ynes of Peru, a useless burden."
" Peru,---why were you there I-and in the silver mines ,-
"Sinclair, I have :since lo ed upon myself as the object of a
fully invented plot, a .deep laid oheme, conspiracy pursued to traffic
in my flesh; in this plot I have been passed from cit to city, from
ship to ship, and from one-country to another; and final, handeuffed
and shackled with'irons, deposited in the nne, as in the very tomb
of slavery,, and left there to die; and so I expected when I saw the
company I was cast in-saw the moving skeletons that Qunee were
hail, hearty men-the heaps of human benes that lay in various
parts, of the subteranean hell It Sinclair you will excuse my vehe-
mence; they are nothing else, ustly they can be called byno other
name, uat. indeed is a mild term for  those channel-pits of :Spim
And then the very stench that :arose from them was enough, and
eftedid prove deatl. to those poor victims, that have, as I have ben
forced there to die and rot, while they who have sold them, are rpvel
ling i 'the ill-gotten wealth accumulated in this dastardly brses.e
Oh, what human being is sufficient to unfold the vast scroll thatehull
reveal to the astonished world the base deceptions blasphemy, and
forgeryof man sl)il h;is fellow m0and~n con~signmng hito up~inie
miseryi or quded onl by the perod of is life. None are skdnt
for those things; but it willrequire the power and omniscience of
the supremeJu ge of the universe at -the great day of final seovnt
t-o,.Sinclair,We are here ieMthe mdst of slavery, yet inJtAhink
there being  t i n divine  revelation,when  that  reat a nr d   t herri
day arrives, andth iemiaculat and impartial judge unr9ls the
*mig cm      i.         trev aalaall the dark places of the each},
thehabittiyoppresita                 wo        bean    r

4I , . : : *

/                         911.,

'                                                 i

k        ,

1 , 4' ''  's fan ^_ '.   s


90

tI
.ii
'11

over his fellow, with a cruel hand, crushing him to the dust, ana
traficing in his body and soul, the Heavens will roll back aghast,
and all faces will gather blackness, the mountains and the rocks fly
from the spoiler and oppressor, crying for them to fall on him, and
hide him from the face of the Judge. They will seek death to rid
them of remorse, but death, by the command of the Deity, will fly
from them ! But Sinclair I am wandering from myself; suffice -it
that I escaped, and once more breathing the pure airof Heaven, felt as
though I was but dreaming of the flowers and fields of Elysian,
for I could scarcely realize my escape, so great was my joy. But
by great assiduity and fatigue, I after many days found myself in
Havana, where shipping for this place, I set sail in the ill-fated Isabel,
made the acquaintance, of her, who, thank Heaven, I am happy in
calling'wife,-was shipwrecked on a tempestous and dismal night,
was found afloat by the captain,-God bless him-who brought us
safe to land."
" You have, indeed been the subject of adventure, to say the least
of it Juan. But I need scarcely inquire your feelings towards
Capello or Verree. Could you forgive him, or do you still retain
your vengeance against him ?"
"Forgive him? Sinclair 1'could, and with all my heart, for my
mind, if not my very soul has been transformed since my departure
from America, and did I but know where to find him I would go.
and embrace him as my father, and hope -to obtain his forgiveness.
Such Sinclair are my. feelings for the man, while I at the same time
abhor and abominate slavery. To say the least of it, it is wrong,
and unjust."
" Capello is dead." Said Duval.
Juan for a moment surprised, started at the sentence, and echoed-
"Pierre VeVrce,'Capello dead ?-"
"He is."
"'Tis true ?-how did he die? Sinclair did you see him die? was
ais end natural or foul-speak, I would know-"
Sinclair, controlling his emotions at the thought of his own parent's
iceath, brushed a tear aside and replied:
'" He was found dead with my own father, in a reserved old build-
ing in this city, that gave evident marks of having been struck by
lightning on the previous night. Their bodies when discovered were
horribly mangled by the angry fluid-"
" Heaven pardon Verree, as I at this moment forgive him! For
the, death, Sinclair. of your parent, I sympathize with you; but is it
not strange they should be thus destroyed in company, were they so
intimate ?"
"Yes, they had grown quite intimate just before their peculiar
fate. Father becoming engrossed in the political changes .of the
South, particularly the Secession movement of his native State, bet
very extravagantly, and lost a large portion of his wealth, he finaH-'
became indebted to Capello, and hence their intimacy, which I a m
inclined to believe added nothing to his life or his reputation."

1113 WEITI SLAYS.                   I
. 'Tis sad,''tis very sad,-but have you ever heatxd of that viram
Livingston?-"
"Hn I shot-"
aWhati did youmay you - shot him, Sinclair ?" Doubted J'ian,
scarcely believing what heheard.
" Yes,onenightlast Fall, as Iwas returning homelate,Iencountered
him, with two others, in the act-of carrying away my wife and silver
plate---I met them just as they were about.tpftake theirfinal leave
of    'pep  sArawing myrevolver, I cmianded thento speak,
iieh 9x. of ~llrndia " with an oath. "Batrice'screaied and I fired,
thetone : w  had her concealed}beneath his cloak, which was Liv-
ingstrn, I; ithe rn ' ining itwmerbithebtowards rah, but before they
rce '4 me hy ss.lywihter edr               the gat  ay,,inathe
icyemb ac   d4    t.-iy coroner' jury, I was w adqftted of all
,are-+'               k                               -_ }

JUAN Oa,

..                -            t     }
.,   , ,
-
.
' r
_             r   , s         o
.

4


w.
f        j

T.E WsETE SLaV.

9,

rI
t
i

sexx  1COA,
CHAI ER XVII.
.  t AMERiCAN JVGdERN e
o We pad gulty, in romancing, of at least"one great fault, that
offlin from one citpr to apother'in an incredible short space of
time: lit frm Lomisiana t Pennsyl an a is'bdt a few hours ride
from New Orleans to I1hiladelphia but  short{ and pleasant journey.
'rhe day on which we revisit our long loved City,thopgh warm, is
. one'of  great and gncralrejoiming; the'streets'andnterouspublic
. aices 'are fild with thousands" of l90th 'sexes, ' hose' familiar and
laughing, ?aces,  girq tokep of glad hearts. The ,stars  and stripes
the American enign of freedoin sflatisging brilliantcoors, pproydl
from many a lofty emrinence. The; military and otherhvarious oder'
and assocationsof ien   afadi' gdiro    dl artso the ciy;
and  non the loud bo  of thecanno'slihei   charge, is heard
amid the ringing of ke i, sand the melowst rpms of martial and
other music,f'Tis the gli 'day tht everglorious fourth day of July,
commerative of a frec haionsb wkk
But.in a, .eautifui rove sorpe. two mile&amp; out'from the city, all
nature is blushing in ripening bloom, and around the spot selected!
are congregated some eightor ten mus ~ d men.' Midvay f the
shady nook.,is erected a spacious "staging for "public speaking,"
around, or ratia in'front of itna etendingfar up the :rising ground,
temporary but sulstantialt seats are nicely avenged for those who
may choose to3eseated during the; discursiveJubiliant. Infront
of the platform n4 immediately above tohspeaker, a largeiromnzed,
egle spreads .foithihis protective, wings over thevast assembly,
while round android the stand the American flag, by whose stripe  .
.   we are healed, is tastefuv entwined circling the  makes in the ree
inspiringgrdle of liberty.  'he ,audh rice had Iisened to the first
speaker, bemuelMi er, with inarked atte tion,; diate crtie "pro-
gress of Libertyin the;NewWrld.' They band struck inp and
layed' with. patriotic eloquencedthe clsarpiing: national air, "Hail
'lumbia, happy land 1-The'secondspeakert amid a hearty round
of applause, arose; and glanced over  the d astigathering iohuman
life,.with ahn lrn and re+tant smnilef.'He  as a man tall nddignified'
though familiar an d ch'i=feland- inmtl e pheof life'Hailf
lhnd-t,-ing'Hada   g'a at    'thefirst }ine of' the
,national gern, just played. "Yes; fiiloAe dtiiens in eontrastl with  .
unfortunate and, betrayed Hungary, priest ridden Italy and Spain,
Monarchal England, or the'down trodden surfs of Russia, oppressed
by the iron rule ofa despote-we, hail with joy the fair land of
Columbia. 'Let the glad anthem-fly upon the pinions of liberty, from
nation to nation, encircle the world, and from every valley and fror

every hill top, ascend in sweet intense to him who is :Oevel stingg
'Governor among the Nation.' Let the trees elap their hands and
rl the world rejoice with us to-day. Hail, all hail, American
brothers, a people highly favored of Heaven! A land of industry
and art, a land of milk and honey, of plenty and of peace. ' Land
of the free, to which the missionaries point the heathen with rapture,
as a type of the holy"realm of peace, rest and repose inm Heaven.
The Elysium, of earth, bearing to man, all that is desirable to make
him happy aind blest., But as the serpent of old defiled the happy
Eden of our first parents.so is the aurse of Afriein slavery blighting
with accumulating misery and}sufferin', the airest and most fruitful
soil beneath the*canopy of Heaven.  es, amid all our rejoicing to-
day, Ihear with 'pain, the.loud -Vail of at least two million of human
slaves in the United States.- I see their squalid nd decrepid con-
dition in sickning contrast 'with the sum tuous.life of.their masters.
Let us visit onea.0f the slave marts of the South, press throughthe
crowd of negro brokers to the auction-room, where humanity like
an article of , merchandise, is knocked off to- the highest bidder.
See the children,,the father, the mother'striped of their clothing and
despite their shrinking modesty, pincfied and examined like beasts
on sale. The bidding is conducted in eager competition. One after
the other the children are knocked off, and seperated, one here, one
there, and another elsewhere; hundreds perhaps thousandsof miles
apart. Whatnembracing, and weeping-follows these sales. ' The
father, mother,.husband axed wife for years, grown all in their love
for each 'other, 'next are sold, the one to a stern old planter in Geotgia
the other perhaps to go to the cotton fields or rice swamps of Louis-
iana. All, are separates for tlue, regardless of the ,unspeakable
pangs of grief felt in the agonized breast of each unfortunate vassal,
but theyare driven like' cattle to their bondage quaters. This some
.have the inhuman assurance to tell us'is sanctioned by holy writ;
in the name of all that is holy, just and good; Lask where I Let the
divine advocate of Southern slavery, hold up the book and with his
vile finger point out the passage, let him proclaim to us, the chapter
and verse. It is contrary to'-the very basis of# the revealed religion
of Heaven, *'Love thy neighbor as thyself.' 'Do unto others, as you
would have others do unto you,'-.was ,.is the ruling spirit of man
'throughout the world, there would riot be a slave on the earth.
Slavery, it is revolting 'to all the better natureof-man r contrary to
universal nature, whicheverywhere,above,abroadbeneath proclaims
in ten thousand voices. Man was created and should remain, equally
free. Life, liberty andthe pursuit of happiness is hisinaileinable
ight..But the unfortunatee African, though not without his represen
tatives in our struggle for freedom from monarchal role, is-too weak,
coo soul oppressed,.to plead his cause with success, andhene groan
on in toil and pain, with the ng deferred hope of'.meeting with, in
ihe world's great ema,n"ipator, Jesus Christ, whom they expect will
come fromx Heaven-with; all his mgelic legions at the appointed time.
and break the spoiler's rod and redeem those, who have waited foi


f1 '

Jt yV  a,,

!
+
°
'r
;
r
I  t
f
;
i
4i
4i

I

t
r;.
:;
f
S.
1
i

TU  'WUITE LAVN

* '95

f
V

'94

him. That such a doctrine noud pleasetheoppressrisnciostringe,
for he very Ahrewdly concludes, that if such a hope prove the means
of keeping them content with. their condition,-he willibe the better
able to drive a more brisk and proftable trade, for like the unjust
Judge, he neither regards tnan nor fears/God. The slave broker,
even though he be 'a mrneber of the prevailing sect, does rot believe
in the divinity of Christ,'in this they are decidedly Thriar.. Witness
their joy and:exultatien at'the burning of a slave on-a plantation in
ohe of the states thut a=short time since. , A number of 'the parish
riiisters with ainember of negro ownersaeonvened and had a large
concourse of slavedgathered fromthe'adjoining plantations to witness
ike' bufiingof one of their number. They chained him to a stako
securely driven into'the earth, had the- brush wood piled around his
quivering boedy,ad applied the -torPh; and while rnid" the poor
sufferer's unearthly cries of agopy, the curling flames crackled around
,him, the sanctified, slave-fattened preachers held up-the burning man
as an eiarnple of what would be their fate, should they prove n the
least disobedient to their masters. The flames still erac;kled around
the poor victim ofinhuman  wrong, he was destroyed. and the spiee-
tators returned to theifrseveral plantations. 'flail Columbia, happy
land!1' Heavenbe merciful,'and let not the last great vial of long
accumulated wrath'doluge tie entire land for th wrongsof the South.
Does Christian lov eacquiesein such cruelty as this? Surely riot; it
is a fiendish invention' proving a blotmost:foul upon the escutcheon
of our country's honor:- A' deep stain that will require 'years of
sincererepentance'tewash away. Ah, happfland! but the bgapiness
alas I how mized with'sorrow. Land of th'braverand free, yet the
stronghold:of covqtdice, and= the rankAil 6f slavery. Land of
civilization and peace'lyet the dark cell of 'tortures, almost rivaling
the Spanish inquistioni. Still 'linger we lathe land'of'slavery, amid
the stench of the-slave pen, the dismal clinking' of the shackels,'the
groans of the oppressed and'the sighs'of sufferings of the mttreated
and punished  these combine' a sound aching to thesoul, and falling
on the earl far from gleasart. \But:the scene changes, and darkness.
like that which covered Egypt, when 1Moses stretched this 'magic
" .     wand over the land of thieslave-holder 'harohl prevails with equal
densitythrough the slave hblding'states of Arnericaeall1have strangely
become barren and Cold; vegitation has ceased to reward thelaborers'
toil, the Vast fields 'of wheat, corn,;rice, tobacco 'and cotton have
grown "sterile and 'bare "The darkness is painfuilly felt all nature
seems to be stuned/tle ocean stands still-the rivers cease to, flow,
and all is awfully quiet; but a low zaurrmpr, disfant Iat first; like the
universal hum of insects, on aclear; eold:night. 'Jistening a second,
it flows into once uibroken'%sound, neaer and nearer it approaches,
louder 'and louder'it sounds- breakin; on tii ear; irn a unearthly
wail of misery and dispair like the last shriek in its dying throes of
.a broken -heart. It 'approaches to -a terrifijing scream of ibe, it
ceases, and is-quiet again. 'A strange,weak light stru'gles toiiquify
the darkness, in a great damp mist,'through which, ltfar  'eye

L.

can scan, the land appears to be a level but fruitless plain; in the
centre of which the grim outline of a vast tower,,built o? human
bones and cemented with bloodcarises t'-view, andalmost reaching
to heaven, reminds us by its height, of the ancient tower of Babel.
The tower seems adorned within and without; withevery orna-
ment or, attraction that cunning and art can suggest, or wealth
command. From the'summit you cansee through the dirn twilight
mist, a large black°'fiag bearing in red lettering, the name of the
tower-" run 'sLAyi V4MARl.' This momentarily disturbed by a'slight
breeze, unfurls 'into. two 'or three ripples, then droops down the
black 'staff, with a 'langour sickly to'behold. This great tower,
then is the visible, tangable remains of the great Southern Juggernaut,
when condensed, but a vst heap of human flesh and bones, the
expressimnage of the great slave'mdloch. Mark how the blood oozes
from it, and 'falling drop- by dr6p; forms a' dull monotouriy, the only
sound 'now heard. But 'see a figure like{a 'shadow approaches a
stone' near the. entrance 'of the tower, which.is covered' with an
indescribable humid green, like the slime of areptile.' But the figure
sees weak and beforehe comimencos the higliascent,would 'rest
himself. He sits on the damp=stone,' and in him you distinguish got
a man, but only the resemidance of a man. From' a dark;spot fver
his heart the thin blood slowly oozes and trickles to his feet; while
he yet shivers with weakness and the consequences of crime, 'several
others of similar appearance and' character join him at the base of
the tower, and withoutopening their lips, with a slight incliiatio of
the'headin recognition, they all pit beneath the crushing weight of
'incomprehensible anguish. 'Shuddering in the dense gloom he raises
his head weakly and, attempts to speak,; like the sound of wind
rattling through askeleton-Libety kath conquered, cursed be she,
reverberated through the vast, tomb-like tower4from the base, leaving
it at the' top. But ere it dies away, it is, taken up and reechoed, by
his blasphemous companions. The effort cost them a more severe
spasmtof pain, and while the damp, chilling ruist thickens' the fol-
lowing alternately falls from 'their lips- 'It bath happened to you, as
it hath happened to me; what has bur fne institutions availed' us at
last ' Speaks one in chagrinand anguish. 'Fe thought, faith,
and free speech, have' broken the cbains of the blacks. 'Free
thought and faith, have emarncipated the serfs." Replied the prowl-
ing priests.. 'We have divided those that no man should put' assun
Aer; but our oppression has but united them  against' us; ouk
folly and cruelty has ruined, us.' Said another. "We have sown
corruption which has' absorbed= all' our'strength,' murmured the pro-
fligate Judge. We bave"&amp;tteinpted to stifle liberty; and the freedom
of thepress, but its breath hath withered lour very root.' Breathed
the JesuiticalSecessionists, in-sullen gloom. 'Liberty hah conquered
accursed be she." 'Reiterated another'vociferiusly. *We have traf-
ficted in the souls and bodies of Africa's sons. 'Judas-like sold our
i niafleshsand with"'an 'iron sway oppressed the ignorant 'end the
weak. 'Now it consumes our vitals and b6ets with rottenes di

I

9

s
.


flower of ourla d, Woo ! woe ! woe! He gasped his owt. damna-
tion, and beneath the accumulated weight of leis own corruptioir, falls
back exhausted 'But 16! -in earthquake shakes the ground, and the
bewely of the trembling erth open beneath the base of the tall tower.
It divides in. the, eptrean4for sa moment rocks and quivers as if
suspended in mid air. Ar awful ru mbling sound, a terrible convul-
sign, and like the -heavy millstone sjnks into the depths of the sea,
the vast tower of 'human bones sinks down and down to the depths
of the spacious c  sm. Will an invisible voice exclaim, 'thus with
violence sha 1.ab lon be thrown down and found no. more at all.'
But. as the huoe Juggernqut goes down, the black .emblem' on her
summit spreaAa forti tp the sheted breezeNand gives in . letters of
blood, once more to they gaze of the world,-' The Great Slave
Mart;' and to I through t'he mity confusion, and coming swift as
on the wings of theInd,.a figure beautiful as a bright summer
morn, ' clear as the sup, fair as the moon, and terrible as armyy
with banners.' A rainbow offtranslucent. dyes, encircles her brow,
while from her polishedfeeti-sheeting thedry desert plain in a spacious
sea, issued forth streams and cdashes of liquid light. Calmly she
rests above th'oifensive cavern on a strong anchor of massive gold.
Her luxuriant auburn ringlets flow bank from her fair open brow
in unbouud tresses, extending over the, white satin boddice of her
dress, the flowing slkirl.f' which trimmed in gold droops to her satin
incased feet in heavy folds. On her head rests a rich velvet cap,
spangled with diamonds and silver, while, one hand points majestic.
call to Heaven, with the-other she clasps a golden sceptre, with,
which,she points in Pmiles to a milk white scroll swinging in
triumph from one arm of. the Anchor, and bearing ..letters of gold,
'atuE, LIBERTY IANDIDEPENC.' With the eale's flightshe
descends to the eatA, and pressing a seal on the unsightly chasm,
closes it, and it so. remains forever. The plain now, which was
desolateand dreary, becomelike the garden of E den, and the whole
world repeopled with the unnuimbered millions of a new born raee,
rejoices and blooms as the rose. Whore the wilderness once stood,
life and health diffusing waters break out, an4 streams of holy nectar
gush forth from the .desert. The slave-parched ground becomes a
pool and the tear and blood, saturated land,-springs living water,
instead of the thorn, lo, the nrtle tree, o( peace springs up, and
instead of the death-brigr, the r-tree of heahhthe box and the pin.
together. And'lo, new mountain start forth, and lifting their lofty
peaks to Heaven, they (rop back into the rosy lap of the earth
now freeided ,the yswet wine of friendship harmony and love.
'      ,na the great nillen iu f;universal brotherhood  pureLfreerom's
niild reign.  Yes Litef antruth, unristiflied with error or the
fear of nn, wiL edmacipate the world from misery and woe.' I-is
then we may sing consistently-' Hail Columbia. happy land.' But
until the curse of African slavery is removed,.the woe pronounced
against the 'land shadowing within wings,' consumes the beauty ad
,uengt of the fairest portions of our common country. fla.ste tho

96

"    JUAN O! ,

1
e

t

1111

.........

THE  wUTE SLAVE.
happy period when a purer liberty shall sway her mild sceptre over
the world. and 'a. NATIONS s w- CALL. HERB.EaSED.a
- We tward the star of empire takes its wV I
The four &amp;hrt acts already past ;
A fifth shdIl close the dramaa with the dMy
t 'ime's noblest ofapring is sio last."
Tlp Leo         n     haghi          ,or the;Ethiopianthis
skn; yet once   aanIrswear-the ,Slae esl be. free.'       ay-
ing whichJuan o    hero, retired  id a  eces     of deafening
applause, while theey  forage ofJshed. trees t     lofty tops,
swayed to and    ro, with:the smul aouB and hem. oices of
approval. The vastas       age  ere    ' oa, ero ; hand Juan,

T" "
The sweet sngerwas t:ie appy Thez. Thei hs now in the
city, though in company with Beatrice and hSinclair. Adelia and
Lemuel Mirston, and the vivacious Louisa, Juaniand Inez pass many
iteasant seasons still at the fashionable resort of pleasure, Cape May.

-              I


LII
II
; ;                I
.IiIIjtI
I             Ii 1 I
4t i  _I        I                                 .       I~
tiI                ;. I                                  V
f               I)
4                ' I

A77


  
             
         
       
   
