
    ----CITATION----
        Mitchell, Donald Grant, (1822-1908). Fudge Doings, Vol. 2 .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC7261
    ----FULL TEXT----
         
       
          
             
             
               FUDGE DOINGS: 
               BEING Tony Fudge's Record OF THE SAME. 
               VOL. II. 
             
          
          
             
            
                
                  Floyd Washington Fudge. 
               
             
          
          
             
             
               FUDGE DOINGS: 
               BEING Tony Fudge's Record OF THE SAME. 
               IN FORTY CHAPTERS. 
             
            By Ik. Marvel.
             
            VOL. II. 
            
               NEW YORK: 
               Charles Scribner.
             
            1855. 
             
            ENTERED, according to Act of Congress, in the year 1854, by CHARLES SCRIBNER, In the Clerk's Office for the District Court of the Southern District of New York. 
            
               W. H. TINSON. STEREOTYPER 24 Beekman St., N. Y.
             
          
          
             
            CONTENTS. 
             
               CHAPTER XIX.-THE DANGEROUS BLIMMER, 9
                
               CHAP. XX.-A NEW ENEMY IN THE FIELD, 20
                
               CHAP. XXI.-JEMIMA'S JOURNAL, 30
                
               CHAP. XXII.-THE WILL CHANGES HANDS, 41
                
               CHAP. XXIII.-CHARMS AND LOST CHARMS, 56
                
               CHAP. XXIV.-SHOWING NO HOPE IN HARRY, 63
                
               CHAP. XXV.-WASHINGTON SHOWS SENSIBILITY, 76
                
               CHAP. XXVI.-A TRIPLET OF LETTERS, 94
                
               CHAP. XXVII.-BIVINS VERSUS BLIMMER, 109
                
               CHAP. XXVIII.-WASH FUDGE RUNS EXTREME DANGER, 119
                
               CHAP. XXIX.-KITTY IN THE COUNTRY, 127
                
                
               CHAPTER XXX.-EVENTS OF IMPORTANCE TAKE PLACE, 139
                
               CHAP. XXXI.-GUERLIN VERSUS QUID, 147
                
               CHAP. XXXII.-MR. BIVINS MAKES A DISCOVERY, 155
                
               CHAP. XXXIII.-GIVING AN ACCOUNT OF THE COUNTESS AND COUNT, 166
                
               CHAP. XXXIV.-OUR SOCIAL REPUBLICANISM, 176
                
               CHAP. XXXV.-QUID, BLIMMER, AND BIVINS, 185
                
               CHAP. XXXVI.-UNCLE SOLOMON BROUGHT TO BAY, 200
                
               CHAP. XXXVII.-AN OLD RESIDENT OF NEWTOWN, 210
                
               CHAP. XXXVIII.-AN IRISH FRIEND APPEARS, 222
                
               CHAP. XXXIX.-TWO CASES ARE BROUGHT TO A DECISION, 231
                
               CHAP. XL.-IN WHICH THE STORY ENDS, 241
                
               SUPPLEMENTARY CHAPTER-TONY FUDGE TAKES HIS LEAVE, 252
                
             
          
       
      
         
            Fudge doings, vol. 2 
            Fudge Doings. 
             
                
               XIX. THE DANGEROUS BLIMMER. 
                
                   
                     
                        "You are the silliest lover in Christendom. If you like Miss --, why do you not command her to take you? If she does not, she is not worth pursuing."
                      
                     SWIFT'S LETTERS. 
                   
                
               I SHALL open this volume with a few observations upon an individual, who may possibly have important relations with the Fudge family: I refer to Mr. Blimmer, of Blimmersville. Mr. Blimmer has a very snug office, full of diagrams of Blimmersville. Indeed, the plots, sites, buildings, and accounts, of that prospective town may be said to fill up the office. There is, among other charts, a beautiful lithograph of Blimmersville, very attractive, with a proposed church, and a proposed clergyman's cottage; both of them highly picturesque, highly Gothic, and highly flattering to the proposed Christian feeling of the township-much more flattering, indeed, than such buildings are apt to be in earnest. 
               Numerous choice sites are indicated upon the maps by red lines. I may say that the red lines are very frequent; indeed, scarce any other kind of sites are at all designated. There are large ledgers in the office, with quite infrequent entries; and there is a small boy in the corner, very busy in making copies of circular letters. Mr. Blimmer himself, with his heels upon the last year's stove, appears, at first glance, to be absorbed with the daily paper. 
               But Mr. Blimmer is not absorbed with the daily paper. Mr. Blimmer shifts his heels frequently upon the last year's stove. Mr. Blimmer passes his hand in a disturbed manner through his hair. Mr. Blimmer puts on his hat-takes off his hat. Something is disturbing Mr. Blimmer. There is a paper in the safe of Mr. Blimmer, which disturbs him; and that paper is the will of the late Mr. Bodgers. I should be doing injustice to the investigating spirit of Mr. Blimmer, if I did not say that he had perused the paper alluded to with great care. He has found the name of Kitty Fleming introduced in that paper after a most generous fashion; so generous, indeed, that he recalls the aspect of that young lady (whom, it will be remembered, he had encountered on a visit to the Misses Fudge) very affably. Indeed, he has taken an early occasion to renew his calls in that quarter. He has entertained Misses Jemima and Bridget with the exceedingly voluble and vivid manner with which he has recounted the fearful accident, in which he had so near a concern. He has interested the tender Kitty by a pleasant narrative of the assiduous but unavailing efforts which he employed for the rescue of her uncle Truman; and at sight of her white handkerchief and the tears, he has kindly forborne; making a show, indeed, of a red silk handkerchief on his own part. 
               Jemima and Bridget have both remarked that Mr. Blimmer has "smarted up;" by which expression they make graceful allusion to a new black coat, and to very becoming plaids. (Jemima is fond of plaids, especially large patterns.) They remark that he talks less about Blimmersville than he did, and attribute it to modesty. They remark that he is kind to Kitty; which is very good of him. "In the days of affliction," said Jemima to Mr. Blimmer, "how pleasant are the visits of a friend!" 
                
               "Just so," said Mr. Blimmer, and saddled his right knee with his left leg in a caressing manner. 
               "How very apt!" thought Jemima; and she wondered, in her own mind, if Mr. Blimmer would ever marry. 
               Now Mr. Blimmer on these occasions, which were not infrequent, was revolving very much the same question himself; but not in the same fashion. The truth is, Mr. Blimmer had allowed himself to form conjectures, from time to time, about the probable age of Miss Kitty; he had allowed himself to admit that four or five more years could hardly have diminished his interest in her; he regarded this as evidence of sincerity. He thought her pretty in black, and interesting, and had remarked as much to Jemima, who said she was "a sweet little pink of a thing; and so young to have affliction!" And then Jemima cast her eyes to the ceiling. 
               Mr. Blimmer continued the plaids, and the visits. And not only did he indulge freely in the conjectures I have named, but allowed himself to indulge in kindred conjectures respecting his own presumptive age. He might pass, he thought indulgently, for thirty-five. It is possible. Girls of nineteen frequently contract marriages with men of forty. These were sometimes, he had heard, marriages of inclination. He was rash enough to indulge this belief. 
               Thereupon, Mr. Blimmer, in his office, with his eye upon the cheerful diagrams, drew very delightful pictures of a large family mansion with Corinthian columns and wide lawn, in the immediate neighborhood of Blimmersville, and overlooking the entire domain; commanding cheerful views of Blimmersville spire in the extreme distance, and a company of Blimmersville children pleasantly gambolling on the village green, while a few Blimmer children might, he thought, with a blush, be gambolling nearer home. 
               Now Kitty, like the good girl that she is, thinks that Mr. Blimmer is very kind to call so often as he does, and to have helped, as he did upon the river, her poor uncle Truman, and to neglect his great town of Blimmersville to talk with a young girl like herself. And this kindness she feels the more, because the elegant Adolphe has not latterly been so frequent in his visits, being busied, indeed, with quite other affairs. However, the mother-very lonely now at Newtown, and knowing little what may come of uncle Truman's property, and fearing lest Kitty may stay too long in the city-bids her come back to the old home once more. 
               I need not say that this arrangement very much quickens the action and the plans of Mr. Blimmer, whose reception by the Misses Fudge is too grateful to be unimproved. He has a fancy, too, that pecuniary motives may have suggested this change to the poor mother in the country, and a generous impulse prompts him to sound matters with Miss Jemima. 
               It would be unwise and uncousinly in me, to attempt to portray the emotions of my poetic Jemima, when she learned that Mr. Blimmer requested a private interview. Far be it from me to pry savagely into the recesses of a fond woman's heart. I have said that she liked plaids; I have said that she wrote poetry; I have said that she has cast her eyes to the ceiling: it is enough. 
               Mr. Blimmer did wear plaids; and-cruel man-a large pattern. 
               Jemima threw herself almost unconsciously into a fauteuil. I should do injustice to her appearance, if I did not say that she had "prinked" very successfully. Mr. Blimmer was embarrassed; so was Jemima. 
               Mr. Blimmer alluded, as was his habit, to recent family afflictions. 
               Jemima "strove to repress the rising sigh." 
               Mr. Blimmer compassionated them all-deeply, tenderly. 
                
               Jemima did not repress the sigh, and played hysterically with her handkerchief-bordered with thread-lace, and worked in the corner with a harp by Mademoiselle Entrenous, and containing their joint initials, tied together with an embroidered love-knot. 
               Mr. Blimmer thought the loss must be a fearful one to Miss Kitty. (He had usually spoken of her as simple Kitty.) 
               "The dear thing!" said Jemima, glancing at Mr. Blimmer. 
               "And yet," said Mr. Blimmer, "as he was an old bachelor, he couldn't be exactly the sort of thing-the sort of protector for Kitty." 
               "Bachelors are devoid of proper feeling," said Jemima, poetically. 
               "Ah, now, Miss Jemima, you don't think that?" 
               And Jemima relents-with her eyes. 
               "She seems very much attached to you," pursued Blimmer, manfully. 
               "Ah, Mr. Blimmer!" and Jemima's hand is placed upon her heart. 
               "Suppose now, Miss Jemima, we were to arrange a little plan for her to stay with you-between ourselves, as it were?" 
               "Ah, Mr. Blimmer!" and the hand continues in the old position. 
                
               "Indeed, now, Miss Jemima, I feel an interest I can't well express." 
               "Ah, Mr. Blimmer, how can I-" 
               "You can command my purse for the necessary, Miss Jemima." 
               "So kind, so generous, Mr. Blimmer!" and Jemima is excited. 
               "Not a bit, Miss Jemima: I think we understand each other now?" 
               "This is so unexpected, Mr. Blimmer." 
               "Of course it is; never occurred to me till this morning; but you see I'm a stirring man, Miss Jemima-up to the mark." 
               "Ah, yes, I feel-I know I can rely on you, Mr. Blimmer." 
               "To be sure. If it's an object, Miss Jemima, I would n't mind leaving, say a hundred dollars in advance." 
               The poetic Jemima, unconscious of figures, can only sigh, "Indeed, indeed, Mr. Blimmer, a true heart is not held by shackles of gold." 
               "Just so, just so," said Mr. Blimmer. "But Kitty will stay now: eh, Miss Jemima?" 
               "And so kind to the dear thing! How grateful she must be, Mr. Blimmer; she must love you!" 
               "You really fancy so, Miss Jemima? And you think you could arrange for her stay?" 
                
               Miss Jemima fears "not just now;" but she hopes, nay, she is quite sure, that after-after- 
               "Just so," chimes in Mr. Blimmer; "and you think the friends won't object to the arrangement?" 
               "Friends, Mr. Blimmer?" 
               "Mrs. Solomon and Mrs. Fleming-think they'll have nothing to say, Miss Jemima?" 
               "Fie, Mr. Blimmer! and are you not the only friend-[getting warm]-indeed-indeed, Mr. Blimmer, the only friend whom I regard-whom I"- 
               "Just so-just so," says Mr. Blimmer, frighted with a new thought that flashes over him. And he rises somewhat confusedly-not, as Jemima, perhaps, fondly fancied, to impress a kiss upon those virgin lips, but to make a hurried plea about his pressing engagements at Blimmersville: "A large sale is a-foot; business before pleasure; always my motto. Well keep this little matter between ourselves, eh, Miss Jemima?" 
               "You are so droll, Mr. Blimmer." 
               And as Mr. Blimmer escapes out of the door, whether it was the poetic atmosphere, or a certain perplexity that hung over him, he cannot forbear an alliterative play upon the words of Miss Jemima; to wit-"D--d droll!" 
               He wickedly repeats it to himself, several times, on the way home. I cannot say that he regards with the same cheerful aspect as before, the diagrams of Blimmersville. The town looks uninteresting, even on paper. Mr. Blimmer has started unexpected game. I have hinted already that, at some former period, he was said to have paid attentions to Miss Jemima. I also hinted that those attentions were discontinued: I need not say that he had looked upon the discontinuance as fixed. It is to be feared that Miss Jemima holds different views. 
               Under the awkward position of affairs, it seems to Mr. Blimmer-as it would have seemed, I think, to most bachelors similarly situated-that there is need of prompt and decisive action. To a consideration of this action, he, therefore, addresses himself, with his usual energy. There is clearly no chance for further negotiation through the medium of Miss Jemima. Miss Kitty, if captured at all, must be carried by storm, and this before and this before any story of a will shall have gone abroad. 
               There are various opinions in regard to bachelor action under similar circumstances; some recommending cautious approaches; and others, of more active temperament, preferring very swift and unexpected advances. In view of Mr. Blimmer's age, and of cousin Kitty's unprotected state, I think that he decided wisely. A middle-aged spinster is usually open to a careful and laborious siege: with a school-girl, or lady in her teens, it is more doubtful. My own procedure with such a subject would be very prompt; all time given to consider, is lost time. Consideration is not flattering to one who decides by impulse. 
               My cousin Kitty, I am sure, was meantime very unsuspecting; and thought Mr. Blimmer, as he came up with her again and again, on her afternoon strolls, very, very kind. I do not know but she came to regard his dress and bearing, after Jemima's frequent encomiums, as something altogether piquant and noticeable. I am sure that she was feeling very unprotected and desolate; and in her heart was conscious of a secret impulse to love very much, without great questioning, whatever or whoever was kind to her. 
               Therefore, though not ordinarily of a terrific cast of character, Mr. Blimmer is to be regarded, I think, at the present juncture, as a very dangerous man. 
             
             
                
               XX. A NEW ENEMY IN THE FIELD. 
                
                   
                     
                         
                           "Methinks I could be well content 
                           To be mine own attorney in this case." 
                        
                      
                     HENRY VI. 
                   
                
               NOW, at the very time that Mr. Blimmer was revolving dangerous projects in connection with Miss Kitty Fleming, a new enemy was coming upon the field, in the person of Mr. Quid, senior. 
               I have hinted, once or twice, at this gentleman's interest in the Fudge family, more especially such part of it as had maintained relations with the late Mr. Bodgers. Mr. Quid expressed himself with perhaps undue familiarity and cheerfulness, it will be remembered, in respect to the death of Mr. Bodgers. 
               Though long retired from business (the business of Spindle and Quid), he was still possessed of a business cast of mind, and of a keen eye for chances. 
               Mr. Quid did not often speak of his late wife; I may say, without venturing too much, that he did not often think of his late wife; he did not apparently take much pride in his late wife; he possessed no portrait of his late wife. Just now, however, he looked back to his conversations with his late wife, and to sundry letters of his late wife with quite new interest-an interest that would have done honor to very many widowers of my acquaintance. 
               The truth is, Mr. Quid had married young-very young: and like most very young men who commit themselves, had married fast, and repented in a slow way. Mr. Quid was, at the time, living a gay European life-very rapidly, upon small means: a not uncommon way of living at the present day He encountered a bewitching lady, living in quite a princely way at the watering-places, who was said to be of American parentage, and only French by education. 
               He reasoned, naturally enough for a young man, that to be living in a princely way, she must be possessed of princely means. She reasoned, very naturally, that a young gentleman from America, living in such an easy way, must be possessed of very easy means. Thus reasoning, they naturally admired each other. And after admiring each other a reasonable time, they very naturally married. I have heard of very many European matches, equally reasonable and natural; and touched with a similar fallacy in the reasoning. 
               It is my opinion, that it is dangerous, now-a-days, to consider expenditure any gauge of property. A prudent and thrifty economy of means appears to me a sounder basis to hang one's trust upon, than even my aunt Phbe's claret-colored coach. I, however, imply nothing to the discredit of the mining-stocks in which my uncle Solomon is interested, or of the banking-institution over which he presides, and which, on last quarter-day, borrowed a few thousands of a flush William street house. I hope they are good and sound. It is quite possible that they may be. I only say that claret coaches are not, so to speak, property; and that Honiton-lace upon a lady's dress is no evidence in the world that her husband's paper is not very slow at Robbins'." 
               Mr. Quid having married badly, tried to make the best of it. Mrs. Quid having done the same thing, was also philosophic, until her patience gave out. This occurred shortly after the birth of Adolphus, when she committed sundry indiscretions, for which she made the only reparation in her power, by dropping off, one summer's day in Paris, of a fever. 
               Mr. Quid learned upon investigation (apparently to his own satisfaction) that his wife was the daughter of a certain Madame Guerlin, formerly Mrs. Bodgers, being widow to the elder brother of the deceased Truman Bodgers, Esq. 
               I cannot say justly how he arrived at this conclusion; nor can I definitely say here how just that decision may be. 
               Supposing this to be true, there were certainly good and sufficient reasons why Mr. Quid should keep this information very much in the dark, during the life-time of the late Mr. Bodgers. I have hinted that this last gentleman had business-dealings at certain times, with the banking-house of Spindle and Quid. They were not such in their tone or in their results, as would warrant a retired and decayed partner of that eminent firm in boasting kinship with Mr. Bodgers, in the hope of securing a bequest. If the hope had been entertained, it would most certainly have proved illusory. 
               Now, however, when the old gentleman was well out of the way, it might be worth while to examine the ground cautiously; to ascertain, first, if Mr. Bodgers did make any will; and, in the event of his not having done so, to bring forward, in a cautious and effective manner, the heirship of Adolphus; and thus realize, at a late day, some pecuniary return for a slip of youthful indiscretion. 
               The visit of the younger Quid to Newtown has already been alluded to. It was by no means so satisfactory as had been hoped by both father and son. My uncle Solomon was kind and patronizing to Adolphus; believing that he saw in him only an anxious suitor for the hand of his rural niece, Kitty Fleming. It is needless to say that Adolphus gave Mr. Solomon Fudge no intimation to the contrary. 
               Squire Bivins was, in his rustic way, very urbane. In virtue of his dignity, as justice of the peace, he was enabled to sanction, and even to assist, a very extended over-hauling of the old cabinet, which held place in the snug parlor of the Bodgers mansion. Not a trace, however, could be found of any papers directing the partition of the old gentleman's estate. 
               My uncle Solomon, who at least had hoped for no more of the Bodgers' property than Mrs. Fudge could lay claim to as heir-at-law, was extremely satisfied with this position of affairs. He regaled himself pleasantly with the thought of making good some sad lapses in his speculative movements, with Phbe's portion of the old property. He even volunteered a few hard jokes with the sharp-nosed justice of the peace. He farther volunteered, in the rally of his spirits, to ask Adolphus into the "old lady's" house; meaning thereby a playful allusion to his respectable sister-in-law, Mrs. Fleming. 
               Mrs. Fleming, as I said, had dusted her little parlor, and possessed just that amount of country innocence which made her quite awe-struck in the presence of the stately Solomon and the very elegant young gentleman, whom she felt quite sure her daughter Kitty had captivated. In the guilelessness of her manner, I will not say but that she dropped a hint or two bearing that construction, very much to the amusement of my uncle Solomon, and somewhat to the confusion of our young adventurer. 
               I have represented Squire Bivins as a cautious man: he is a cautious man. Notwithstanding the provocation extended by the somewhat stately manner of Mr. Solomon Fudge, he had dropped no hint in respect to the will drawn up by himself on a recent occasion; and in which will, it may be remarked, there was very slight mention of either Aunt Phbe or family. The drafting of this will, notwithstanding its lack of signature, so far as Squire Bivins was aware, was certainly an awkward fact to communicate to Mr. Fudge; but not so (in view of Quid's prospective relations to the Flemings) to the younger party. Squire Bivins in his little office, by the meeting-house corner, revolved the matter; regaling himself, in his usual manner, over the office-stove and the apple parings. He determined to dispatch a small note after Mr. Quid, requesting to see him a few moments, in relation to the unfinished business of the morning. Mr. Quid, though thoroughly satisfied with the investigation in company with Mr. Fudge, renewed his call upon the wiry justice of the peace. 
               The Squire offered a chair, and patted his wig caressingly. 
               "There don't seem to be any will," said the justice, looking up from under his spectacles. 
               "It seems not," said Quid, very cheerfully. 
               Squire Bivins winked at Adolphus: which Mr. Quid not understanding, regarded him very attentively. 
               "Supposing, young man, that the Squire, who was a keerful man, had made a will: what then?" 
               "Then he would," returned Mr. Quid, in a very natural manner. 
               "Very true, young man; but to what one of his kinsfolk do you suppose he would have given his property?" 
                
               "I really can't say," returned Mr. Quid: "I never had the pleasure of Mr. Bodgers' acquaintance." 
               "Oh, ay; very likely." And Squire Bivins determined to try his client upon a new tack. 
               "Young man," commenced he, again giving his pantaloons his usual toilet-hitch in a downward direction; "young man, Squire Bodgers did make a will." 
               Quid's countenance fell, and his color went strangely. "You know it, Mr. Bivins?" said he, falteringly. 
               "I know it, Mr. Quid." 
               And Mr. Bivins, with a complacent look, took a small chew of tobacco; first offering the twist to the pallid Mr. Quid, who, it is needless to say, declined. 
               Squire Bivins waited. 
               Mr. Quid took another small bill from his pocket-"foreseeing," as he expressed himself, "that he should have occasion to consult Mr. Bivins at some length"-and tendered it to the justice. 
               Mr. Bivins smoothed the bill upon the table, without specially seeming to regard its amount, and placed upon it the tobacco-twist before mentioned. 
               "A will," said Mr. Bivins, taking up the subject gracefully where he had left it, "a will which I had the honor of drawing up myself upon this very table; a will, Mr. Quid, by which he bequeathed the bulk of his large property, tan-works included, to Miss Kitty Fleming." 
               Squire Bivins had, for once, mistaken his man; he had fully expected to see a gleam of rapture spread over the face of Mr. Quid at such an announcement. On the contrary, he saw even greater pallor than before. 
               A later communication, however, produced a happier effect; Mr. Bodgers had not signed the will; indeed, so far as he knew, it was no will at all. He knew nothing of its whereabouts. It had very probably been destroyed. 
               "Yet, to tell truth," said Mr. Bivins, "the Squire was not a man to draw up papers for the sake of burning 'em. A keerful man was the Squire." 
               And with this much of information only, Mr. Quid takes leave of Mr. Bivins, leaving, however, his address, with a request to forward at once any new information which may come to light, either respecting the draft alluded to, or any subsequent instrument. 
               The Quid chances have certainly a very favorable aspect; somewhat dampened, however, by the fact, which presently comes to the knowledge of both father and son, that a certain Mr. Blimmer, who was in company with Mr. Bodgers at the time of his death, "had intrusted to him commissions of considerable importance by the deceased gentleman." 
               This fact is derived from a careless editorial mention in the Daily Beacon, within a few days after the occurrence of the accident. It did not appear that any such notice had been given under the name or direct authority of Mr. Blimmer. To this Mr. Blimmer, however, Mr. Quid determined to address himself without delay; and we shall renew our acquaintance with both senior and junior Quid in the office already described as being cheerfully illustrated by the Blimmersville diagrams and lithographs, with the Blimmersville church in the extreme distance. 
               Meantime, my good cousin Kitty, altogether ignorant of those plans and counter-plans in which she bears so large and so unconscious a part, counts the days which tie her still to the pleasant life of the city, and dreams each night of those pleasanter days which will open upon her under her own mother's home, and amid the fragrance of the old roses which crowned her childhood with their bloom. 
             
             
                
               XXI. JEMIMA'S JOURNAL. 
                
                   
                     
                        "After all, except in some few instances, I am not very partial to literary ladies: they almost always bring to mind the female astronomer, who, after applying her nocturnal telescope for a long series of months, declared her only object was to discover if there were men in the moon."
                      
                     LYTELLTON'S LETTERS. 
                   
                
               I HAVE hinted at the literary tendencies of Miss Jemima Fudge. Like most literary ladies, she keeps a journal, in which a great deal of pent-up tenderness overflows. Very much of that sort of tenderness which afflicts ladies of a certain age, would, if put in print and distributed in the leaves of a popular magazine, dispose people to tears. It is fortunate for the world that it does not so appear. 
               We have tears enough of our own, I think, without finding them started by every distracted lady who chooses to take a pen. There are griefs seaming the texture of every mortal's life; and dispirited ladies have no right to think, or to say, with their hands on their bosoms: "Every heart has its own bitterness;" as if the proverb applied to them, and nobody else. There is, in fact, an immense deal of affliction, and an immense deal of sentimental affliction in the world, which needs only to be ripped open to make a very bloody show. But a better way of treating it is, to poultice with common-sense, and to follow this up with a strong plaster of duty; and in a month's time the evil is cured: or, what is as well-is forgotten. 
               But cousin Jemima was not of this way of thinking: she loved to fancy her little tweaks of sensitiveness were the irradiations (so she called them) of a delicate nature; and she nourished them, and fondled them accordingly, as many a weaker man or woman has done before her; and, it is to be feared, will continue to do, till the crack of doom. It is surprising what a magnificent growth of griefs our own fancy can germinate, if it be only set in that direction! It is frightful to contemplate the personal woes which play before the vision of a poetically-disposed young lady, dancing and gleaming every twilight, like sheet-lightning in a bad atmosphere. 
                
               As I said, the best way to disperse it all, is to set about some healthful, honest, hearty work-though it be no better than darning stockings for the children of a ragged school. 
               Miss Jemima, instead, wrote verses; and, when rhyme failed, wrote in her journal. There she unbosomed herself; there she strewed passion, grief, Byron, Mr. Smith, heart-speech, Tupper, Blimmer, hope, desolation-in a flood. 
               I shall publish a portion of it herewith. 
               Will Jemima be offended when she finds the world called in to sympathize with her bewildered heart? Will she feel wronged to meet, through printed pages, the pulsations of other hearts attuning themselves to hers? I don't think she will. 
               Ladies of my cousin Jemima's cast of thought love the fragmentary form; and I should be doing injustice to her, as well as to all kindred natures, if I were to alter it in the slightest degree: 
               
                  --"And can it be, do I find my poor heart yielding? Is it gone, or is it mine? How strange and inscrutable are our natures! Like harps of a thousand strings. Tupper says as much, but in a far different way. How poor is language, at least such as this, to express all our feelings! And yet-and yet, I feel, I know, that it is bubbling over as richly, and from as deep sources, as that of any poet in the world. Oh! for a pen from an eaglet's wing!
                  "Do I love Mr. Blimmer? Alas! my poor beating heart! That he loves me, I am convinced. His is not a poetic, but an earnest nature. Why ought I to look for more? The world is a broken and unripe world: opposites combine harmoniously. I admire the rude energy of his character: is not this a poem?
                  "And yet I fear that my delicacy has shocked him; he is fearful; he distrusts; alas! if he knew my weakness! Men give us credit for more resolution than we possess. A word more, and I feel that I should have given myself to him for ever; strange thought! to be given to another for ever! To find these emotions, these feelings, these burning, suffocating feelings, all centred in one object!
                  "He was here this very day."
                
               The interview having been already described, I shall not repeat here the account of Miss Jemima, but pass on to subsequent entries, which will advance the Fudge story. 
               
                  "He has not come: Does he doubt me? Does he doubt my feeling-feeling growing stronger with delay? Have I treated him coolly? Forbidding thought! I must wait patiently the issue.
                  "Is it not a strange dispensation of fortune, that we, whose susceptibilities are so keen, whose feelings are so delicate, should, by the rule of custom, be denied all open utterance of the heart, until first we have won the accidental favor of an admirer? How much better it would be if only we could throw open the flood-gates of our feeling whenever strong feeling is called into being! Is not this truer to our own poetic nature, and truer to the first design of Providence?
                  "Why is it that woman alone of all creatures is compelled to cloak her deepest and strongest feelings, and oftentimes, alas! to carry them with her to the grave unuttered? Is it not a folly and a wickedness so to belie ourselves?"
                
               Miss Jemima here interpolates quotations from Mrs. Hemans and Young's Night Thoughts, which I omit. 
               
                  "It is true that Mr. Blimmer is not all that I could wish for in a husband; or, rather, he does not seem wholly equal to the ideal I had formed in seasons of rhapsody; yet, what woman has ever yet found her ideal realized? Is it not tempting Providence vidence to pursue still farther the poetic images of a fond heart and teeming imagination? Did not Mrs. Brown, the poetess, marry a common-place man? and does not Mrs. Brown indulge in her ideal flights as much as ever? Did not Mr. Peabody, the delightful sentimental writer, marry a short, fat woman, and yet draw the same graceful pictures of female loveliness, and broken hearts, that he did before he commenced house-keeping with Mrs. Peabody, who wears spectacles? Is not the mind, after all, capable of making its own poetic world to live in, whatever becomes of the less ethereal portions of our nature? Would not the mental part of Jemima Fudge remain itself, with its own instincts and capacities, although the world should call me Mrs. Blimmer? I cannot and will not believe otherwise."
                
               Here occurs a chasm in the journal, which begins again, in a nervous hand, thus: 
               
                  --"The faithlessness and the folly of men! A woman's heart is the toy that evil men play tricks upon. How little they know the depth and earnestness of the feelings with which they trifle! I am deceived in Blimmer. He is the basest of his sex. Yet what on earth can have induced him to pay court to that dear little simpleton, Kitty Fleming? He is old enough to be her father; the villain! Is it that he despaired of winning my affections? Does he wish to kindle my jealousy?
                  "But I will control myself, and make a record of his strange proceedings. He had scarce seen me, or met me only in the most ceremonious manner, since the eventful day of our conversation. I attributed this to a high-toned respect for my agonized feelings; I might possibly have relented. It is well I did not. My looks have been of marble. Matters were going on thus, and Kitty getting ready for her departure, when she ran to me in tears, only yesterday, with a letter-an avowal of love-from that unnatural man, Blimmer. It was better conceived than I judged him capable of. There was intensity in it, though in parts badly spelled. He pretended that he has loved her long: what fearful falsity!
                  "Kitty, poor little thing, was overwhelmed with grief. I endeavored to comfort her; I assured her that no harm should happen to her; Bridget and myself have devoted ourselves to her relief. Blimmer will find himself circumvented in his designs; we have forbidden him an interview. Kitty is quieter. I have myself dictated her reply; a cutting reply. His offers have been repelled with deserved scorn: his age was alluded to-perhaps too pointedly. Yet it does not matter: what feeling but scorn can be entertained for one so false-hearted? He promised her wealth; can it be that the Blimmersville property is rising in value? Should he relent, it may not yet be too late. Alas! the struggles of a woman's heart!
                  "I abandon the pen; I give myself for a moment to tears; not private tears, but tears for the feebleness and depravity of human nature. Would that they might wash it out!"
                
               I may remark here that this is a common indulgence, and a common infatuation of over-sentimental natures. Tears are very good things in their place, it is true; and I like to see them sometimes. But they will not wash away any considerable amount of human depravity or human weakness, however frequent they are, or however easily called up. As a general thing, I am disposed to believe, on the contrary, that they blind our eyes to the sight of a great deal of service which might be rendered to the world in general by a good, straight-forward look into the face and eyes of Duty. It is all very well to bemoan such matters of grief as gain large proportion by the magnifying property of an eye-full of tears; but a handful of help is better every way. Miss Jemima's, however, was one of those delicate natures which shrunk from the positive, and ran irresistibly to the ideal. Idealism is very well where it belongs-in the clouds. It makes pretty rainbows, and that sort of thing; but the bows, so far as I have observed, are lost when they touch ground, and neither hold their color nor anything else. There is an immense deal of dreamy philanthropy which floats about in verse and romantic spray, very gorgeous indeed, but lost so soon as you try to squeeze out of it some palpable, fertilizing drops. 
               Miss Jemima possessed a mass of this sort of philanthropy, and pursued charity very much as the Humble Lieutenant, in Fletcher's play, pursued his love-too far off. 
               To return: poor Kitty was distressed at receiving such a letter from Mr. Blimmer. If it had come from the younger and more elegant Mr. Quid, or even floated over ocean, in better-spelled words, from the old-time companion of the country-evenings, Mr. Harry Flint, I will not presume to say what would have been her emotions. 
               As it was, she felt indignant, hurt, alarmed, and entertained the unnecessary fear that she would become thenceforth the prey to unmeasured persecution-such as is spoken of in novels-with no novel-like lover to defend her. She wrote to her country mamma a dolorous letter, lamenting her unfortunate and unprotected position, very much to her mother's pride and gratification, who asked, in reply, about Mr. Blimmer's age and prospects in life, and shocked Miss Kitty, by hinting at the necessity of caution in decisions of that sort, and assuring her that a good husband would, in many respects, be a very desirable acquisition. 
               I do not mean to imply by this, any hard-heartedness on the part of Mrs. Fleming; she loved her daughter as a good mother should, and who, after being thoroughly satisfied with any offering suitor for the hand of her Kitty, would very likely, before the actual separation came about, be hysterically opposed to it; and entertain very gloomy apprehensions about the affections of a daughter who could voluntarily desert her in her old age. 
               It will perhaps be observed, that Mrs. Fleming, under the influence of the feelings supposed, would have entirely lost sight of her former association with Mr. Fleming, and of the manner in which she deserted the Fudge family on the eve of her own marriage. Marriage, however, is very much the same thing with one good woman as it is with another. It tears families apart, and it makes new ones. The old order of love, and separation, and trust, and tears, and household, overtakes daughters, as it has overtaken mothers; and so it will hold on to be, as long as men are married, or women are given in marriage. 
               Kitty cried hard over her mother's letter; and told her that Mr. Blimmer was an odious man, of twice her own age, that she could never think of loving him in the world, and that she had told him so, and how she hoped never to see or hear of him again. 
               All this was bitter to Mr. Blimmer, who had founded considerable hope upon a sudden movement, and had entertained the pleasing fancy of carrying the young girl's heart by storm. Being thoroughly thwarted, and foreseeing no farther chances in that direction, he set about a reconsideration of Mr. Bodgers' will. The flat rejection of Mistress Kitty was not pleasant: such things are never so. I have hinted as much in my first chapter; giving very good ground for the opinion. I allude to Mabel. 
               Mr. Blimmer was naturally disturbed, and thought he might take all allowable advantage of the circumstances in which he found himself placed. And it was precisely under this state of feeling that he was favored with a call from the elder Mr. Quid. 
             
             
                
               XXII. THE WILL CHANGES HANDS. 
                
                   
                     
                        "Nor ever can two rogues meet in parley, but one shall take a slip by reason of his own conceit: and ten to one, but it be the keener-witted of the two."
                      
                     OLD WRITER. 
                   
                
               MR. QUID having been a business-man, considers it necessary to use some precautions in approaching Mr. Blimmer: Mr. Blimmer being also a business-man, thinks it advisable to exercise some precaution in his interview with Mr. Quid. A business-education is, indeed, a capital way of sharpening the faculties, and making a man of spirit cautious and prudent. I should say that a Wall street tuition of eighteen months would be one of the best sharpeners of the wits of a young man of naturally dull parts, that could possibly be devised. 
               I never, indeed, allow myself to converse casually with a Wall street man, without anticipating some loss by the transaction. His own observations are of that fragmentary, loose character, from which little definite information can be gained; whereas, he has a way of transmuting all your own small coin of talk into his stock in trade. Thus, if I say, "It's a cool morning," he gives a value to the fact by reckoning its influence on coal-stocks, and safely presumes, other things being equal, upon a fractional advance in Delaware and Hudson. If, I say, "There's really no news stirring," he calculates, with a good deal of certainty, upon an upward tendency in New Haven Railway-news being, for the most part, confined, during stagnant seasons, to reported accidents upon that vigorously-conducted line of travel. 
               In the same manner, a general remark, in regard to the healthy state of the money-market, is pretty uniformly followed by a fall in Dauphin-that stock bearing the same relation to moneyed value which the vacuum in a thermometer bears to quicksilver, to wit: negative. 
               Mr. Quid, then, is cautious in his approaches. He bows respectfully as he enters Mr. Blimmer's office, bidding him a very cordial good-morning. 
               Mr. Blimmer removes his feet from the stove, and returns his salutation with interest. 
                
               Mr. Quid says, introducing himself: 
               "Mr. Quid, Mr. Blimmer." 
               "Happy to see Mr. Quid," says Blimmer. 
               "I am informed," continues Quid, measuredly, "that you were among those who escaped from the wreck of the Eclipse." 
               "Just so," replies Blimmer. 
               "A terrible event!" And Mr. Quid blows his nose. 
               "Very terrible!" says Blimmer, growing curious. 
               "I am informed," continues Mr. Quid, "that a gentleman of your name, doubtless Mr. Blimmer himself, has given notice of certain information which he had to communicate, of importance, respecting an old gentleman who perished"-- 
               Mr. Blimmer here recalls some business which requires his attention, and calling his boy Jerry from the corner, dispatches him with a note (an old note, it seemed), to Fulton Ferry, giving him one hour (and he looks at his watch), for the errand. Mr. Quid observes this. 
               Mr. Blimmer begs pardon: but-as if he had lost the previous thread of conversation-repeats: 
               "Sad affair, Mr. Quid, very sad." 
               Mr. Quid repeats his suggestion: to which Mr. Blimmer, being more collected, replies: 
               "Ah, yes; there was a hint of that sort-in the 
                  Beacon, was it not? Rather unnecessary, to be sure; but under such circumstances trifles are noticed. The old gentleman begged to be kindly remembered: a singular old gentleman, sir; died easily, I believe; I did my best to help him ashore; but he was quite rheumatic." 
               "And the old gentleman's name was --." 
               "Ah, you knew him! it was -- bless me!" 
               "Bodgers, perhaps?" 
               "Bod-Bodyn-Bodgers-I think it was: Bodgers." 
               "And there was no special message, which the old gentleman left, Mr. Blimmer; no writing of any kind?" pursued Quid, with a very strong accent on the word writing.
                
               Mr. Blimmer eyes Mr. Quid keenly, but swiftly. Both, indeed, were keen-looking men on occasions. This was one of those occasions. 
               "Let me see," said Blimmer, recalling himself; I "I think there was; a paper of some sort; a little memorandum like; possibly in my pocket now (and Mr. Blimmer rises). You are a relative, perhaps? Mr. -- I ask your pardon." 
               "Quid, sir, Adolphus Quid." 
               "Ah, quite right; I remember now; cousin, perhaps, or relative?" 
               "Not a relative, but interested, Mr. Blimmer." 
                
               "Ah, interested. On the part of the -- Fudges, perhaps? Respectable old gentleman is Solomon Fudge; deserving man." 
               "Not at all," says Mr. Quid, speaking slowly and pointedly. "I am interested more directly, Mr. Blimmer, on the part of the heirs to Mr. Bodgers' elder brother, who died many years ago abroad, and whose descendants, as you will perceive, Mr. Blimmer, are of much nearer kin than either the Fleming or the Fudge branch of the family." 
               "Ah, so, quite so, Mr. Quid," says Blimmer, who appears to be anxiously rummaging the pockets of sundry coats which hang against the wall; and who does not seem to be very much embarrassed by the earnestness of Mr. Quid's tone. 
               He does not find the memorandum just now; but he makes no doubt of being able to do so; indeed, if Mr. Quid will do him the favor to call later in the day, he hopes to put him in possession of such papers as he holds. 
               Mr. Quid is disturbed; but feigns tranquillity. Too great eagerness might be fatal. He is sorry to be of trouble to Mr. Blimmer; indeed, he shall hope generously to repay any endeavors on his part to arrange matters satisfactorily; and he extends an encouraging and appreciative look over the numerous diagrams of Blimmersville, which decorate the office-walls. His son has expressed himself charmed with the locality; they hope to ride over some pleasant day; perhaps Mr. Blimmer could do them the favor to accompany them. He will call in the afternoon, "at three." 
               "At three," says Mr. Blimmer. 
               And they interchanged a very warm-sounding "Good-morning." 
               There are a great many "good-mornings" spoken which are only a mild form of swearing. I hope it was not so in this instance. 
               Mr. Blimmer, the door being closed with a soft slam, threw himself into a posture of repose, and reflected rapidly. Quid is, of course, anxious (he thinks) to become possessed of such a document as lies in his hands; he would naturally (he reflects) bid high for it. He would probably destroy it-naturally enough. But perhaps, after all, Quid's claims are good for nothing. What then? Phbe Fudge and the widow Fleming are joint heirs. Old Solomon, then, might be disturbed by the production of such a document. A man in his position (Mr. Blimmer does not know of the sight-drafts and Wash. Fudge's duel) would hardly bid for accommodation. Mr. Quid seems his man. Kitty has lost his sympathy; indeed, the whole Fudge family are confounded founded in the tumult of his aggrieved feelings-naturally enough. 
               Following upon this stage of reflection, there comes to Mr. Blimmer a period of action. He locks the door, the hour for Jerry's return not being up; draws the curtains-dusky moreen; he draws out from his safe Mr. Boger's Will, and on a clean sheet of foolscap, like as possible to the original, commences a copy; writing in backhand, but rapidly. He hesitates about signing the names: one naturally looks for a signature to such an instrument in a distinct hand; besides which, it is awkward work signing names for other people, whether at the foot of notes; or, for that matter, upon the backs. 
               The boy would do the names better: but the boy must not suspect. Trust Blimmer for that; and the Blimmersville proprietor thereupon makes an expressive gesture with his hand, significant of a high estimation of his own shrewdness, but yet not of a kind to be looked for in the proprietor of a village. 
               Presently, the corner-boy, Jerry, comes in. He is a short-haired, half-Irish boy; one of that numerous race which is growing up in our city between lawyers' offices, the haunts of washer-women, and corner publication shops; a race which, as it developes in knowledge of the world, and in familiarity with the habits and principles of the bar, will furnish eloquent speakers to the caucuses of the Bowery, and a grand intonation to the plaudits in Tammany Hall. And it is not unlikely that some among them will thereafter obtain a contract for paving a street, or for digging a sluice-way, which will make them nabobs. Future years shall behold them in brown-stone houses upon (who knows?) Madison or Union Square, with native wives in claret carriages, and with tall sons who shall wear tight plaid pantaloons, and glorify themselves in the eyes of all bar-keepers and chamber-maids, by smoking three-cornered cigars on the steps of the New York Hotel. 
               Now, however, the ancestor of such degenerate offspring is Irish Jerry, serving for six shillings a week, the redoubtable Blimmer. 
               "Jerry!" says Blimmer. 
               "Sir!" says Jerry. 
               "How comes on your writing, Jerry?" 
               "Pr-retty fair, sir." 
               "Let me see," says Blimmer. 
               And the crop-haired boy brings forward some papers which he has been transcribing. 
               "More attention to your caps, Jerry; not plain enough. Bring a clean sheet; sit here; now then, try an A. 
               "Pretty good. Your Ts are bad; try a T. 
                
               "Not so crooked a top, Jerry;" and Blimmer sets him a sample; a very Truman-like sample. 
               "Try a B now, my boy." 
               And the devoted Blimmer continues instruction, until Jerry has nearly filled a sheet with stark-mad capitals: principally confined, however, to Bs and Ts, and such like difficult letters. 
               "Try a name now, my boy; let me see-write Boggs!" 
               And after this follows Trenton, and various practice, until the sheet is full. But a boy who improves so fast shall have paper enough, says Blimmer; where with he lays before him a sheet on which he has himself been scribbling. 
               "Beat my hand, if you can, boy," says Blimmer, enthusiastically; "write Harry Flint here in the corner." 
               Blimmer takes up the sheet and seems to admire it contemplatively. 
               "Did you ever write back-hand, my boy?" 
               "Don't know it, sir," says Jerry. 
               "Ha! ha! why, don't know it?" says Blimmer, intensely amused; "why, this is back-hand," showing a bit of his own; "and this," showing an old letter; "and this awkward-looking thing," and Blimmer slips under his eye the actual signature of old Bodgers, appended to the will. 
                
               "You could beat that, to be sure, Jerry. Let us see." 
               And Jerry dashes it down in the corner of Mr. Blimmer's copy; altogether unconscious what may hang on that fragment of blurred writing. 
               And after this, Blimmer rewards Jerry with a new and clean sheet, and, directing the writing of Blimmer and Blimmersville, and George Washington, and General Jackson, appears to grow less and less interested in his scholar, and finally gives him up to a chance column in the Directory. 
               Mr. Blimmer slips the copy in a drawer until the time for Jerry's dinner arrives. Then, by himself, the careful gentleman folds and dries the copy, thrusting it a time or two in the ashes, to give the edges a worn look. 
               Jerry wonders, over his boiled beef and cabbage, what the old man can be so "soft" upon him for; and why he wants just now such a stock of capitals, and such a writing of out-of-the-way names. 
               The village-proprietor, meantime, waiting the arrival of Mr. Quid, indulges in various reflections. 
               He is not altogether a bad man; the last man in the world, as he assures himself, to forge a will, literally. But he wishes to watch matters, somewhat; he has availed himself of an innocent business-disguise for this end. He doesn't feel at liberty to trust the genuine document in the hands of Mr. Quid. There might be a risk in it. Mr. Quid might venture to destroy it. In such event, the old will stands good. And should he publish it (hardly to be supposed), then the deception is no way harmful. At any rate, he satisfies himself (as we are all apt enough to do), with his own action, and receives Mr. Quid in a very cordial manner. 
               Mr. Quid is, upon this visit, accompanied by Quid junior, whom he introduces to Mr. Blimmer as his son, and the undoubted heir, through right of his mother, to the Bodgers estate. 
               Mr. Blimmer is delighted to make his acquaintance, and finds him a chair with a whole back. 
               Mr. Quid hopes that Mr. Blimmer has been successful in his search. 
               "Perfectly;" but he fears, on looking over the memorandum, that it will not be altogether agreeable to Mr. Quid. On examination, he finds that the memorandum bears the form of a will, by which the deceased bequeathed his property, in a very extraordinary manner (saving a few bequests), to Miss Kitty Fleming. 
               Mr. Quid manifests less embarrassment than Blimmer would have imagined; and observes, in a chirrupy manner, that the will is probably "witnessed and signed?" 
                
               Mr. Blimmer says, "Certainly." 
               Mr. Quid is evidently affected; so is Adolphus. 
               "Is Mr. Blimmer sure?" says the junior. 
               "Sure." 
               Mr. Quid senior begs, thereupon, to ask, as a mere matter of curiosity, if Mr. Blimmer has informed the Fleming family, or, indeed, any party, of the existence of this will. 
               Mr. Blimmer apologizes, in very warm terms, for his oversight in not having yet done so; he anticipates great pleasure in bringing to the knowledge of-- 
               Mr. Quid takes Mr. Blimmer's hand in a warm manner; he begs that he would exercise discretion; "a discretion which, under the circumstances, might ensure to Mr. Blimmer immense advantage." 
               Mr. Blimmer seems to reciprocate the sentiment silently. 
               Mr. Quid would, of course, be glad to see the document in which he has so near a concern; so would his son. 
               "I dare say," says Mr. Blimmer; "but, gentlemen, would it not be proper to lodge this paper at once in the hands of the surrogate, or at least of some magistrate, in order to avoid unpleasant suspicions? You perceive, I dare say, gentlemen, how the matter stands?" 
                
               Young Quid has turned an admiring and very eager look upon the Blimmersville lots. Mr. Quid, senior, looks relenting and generous. Blimmer resolutely slips a thumb in the button-hole of Quid's coat, and draws him into a corner. They talk in whispers. Mr. Blimmer intimates that the making of Quid's fortune is in his hands. Mr. Quid admits that he is exceedingly desirous of gaining possession of a document of so much importance. 
               Mr. Blimmer intimates that he has had some difficulty in the matter; it was an important trust; he should hesitate to relinquish it without receiving some guarantee in writing, or perhaps-money; that-in short, Mr. Quid must be fully aware of the state of the case. 
               Mr. Quid seemed to be. They appeared, indeed, to agree. What the terms of the bargain were, by which poor Kitty's inheritance was to be placed in the hands of the Quids, I cannot say. Perhaps it will appear as the story ripens into fulfilment; perhaps not. There hardly seems a chance that between these two business-men, any part of the old uncle's liberality will come near to Kitty Fleming. The weak ones of the world are every day yielding to the strong; it is so in Lombard Italy; and it is so in Wall street. 
               The reader has, without doubt, anticipated the delivery of the copy of Truman Bodgers' will into the hands of Mr. Quid; which would leave chances still pending between the insatiate lover, Mr. Blimmer, and the defenceless girl, my cousin Kitty. The reader, however, is for once mistaken; his novel-reading experience is at fault. Mr. Blimmer did not consign away from his keeping the copy, but, by a stupid oversight, the veritable document! 
               Now, indeed, the reader of sensibility may shed tears. 
               Mr. Blimmer did not discover his mistake until the Quids, father and son, in happy humor, had bidden him a cordial good-evening. I shall not attempt to describe the emotions of Mr. Blimmer on discovering upon his table the rapid copy which he had himself executed in a masterly manner, and the somewhat staggering signatures of his accomplished clerk. 
               Jerry went home that night with a bump upon his head, which, as it resulted, in his view, from a rap wholly undeserved, provoked in him a very bitter train of thoughtfulness. An old proverb says, "It is best to have the good-will, even of a dog." 
               It was observed, by those curious in the history of Blimmersville lots (who were not numerous) that within a short time after the interview related, a large number of choice sites in the proposed village passed into the proprietorship of Adolphus Quid, junior. I regret to be compelled to add, that the site for the proposed church was among these. It is to be feared, therefore, that the proposed village will remain for a still longer, and indeed indefinite period, without church-privileges. 
               Bridget Fudge, I should have remarked, has indignantly withdrawn her promise to embroider a cross for the cover of the proposed reading-desk of the church to be erected in Blimmersville. 
               I fear Jemima has been doing injustice to Blimmer. 
             
             
                
               XXIII. CHARMS AND LOST CHARMS. 
                
                   
                     
                        "Quando non mancano denari, tutti rispettano."
                      
                     GOLDONI. 
                   
                
               AT the present writing, I find my aunt Phbe, Mrs. Solomon Fudge, invested with that auroral charm which the society and waters of Saratoga are supposed to impart; and with ten pounds, avoirdupois, additional weight of body, Jealous ladies, of less Valenciennes to their capstrings, said, "How corpulent Mrs. Fudge has grown!" The same ladies, being asked to accompany her on a drive to the lake, "were glad to find her so improved in appearance." Mrs. Fudge had taken her horses to Saratoga, and found them good capital. She had besides taken Wilhelmina, who was also good capital. Mr. Solomon Fudge, remaining ing in Wall street, except for occasional Sunday-visits, supplied the capital for both. 
               My aunt, in the course of two winters' campaigns, with Wilhelmina under her command, had acquired considerable strategic experience. She had learned, with commendable accuracy, the proper breakfast-toilet for self and daughter, and the hours for the same. She had learned much of young men-the Count Salle (who was fifty) included. She had learned not to use French words in conversation; finding them, on repeated trials with the Count above-mentioned, unintelligible. She had learned to restrain, in some degree, the natural impetuosity of her character, by which her color was gradually subsiding into white. She had familiarized herself to some extent, under Wilhe's tuition, with the range of fashionable topics; she had even learned to talk upon these with a measurable degree of correctness. In short, Mrs. Phbe was becoming one of the established ladies of the place; well known to the chief waiter, well known to the hackney-cabman, and well known to the purveyors of the triweekly hops. 
               The Count Salle was at the Springs; a fact duly chronicled in the little Sentinel of the place, in the same column with a flattering mention of the distinguished Baron Brobdignag, an eminent foreign physician, whose time was necessarily limited, and who wore huge eye-glasses on the end of a very red nose. 
               The Count Salle enjoyed repeated waltzes with Miss Wilhelmina; indeed, the Herald, in its entertaining correspondence, ventured to state that "a distinguished Count, well known in New York circles, was particularly attentive to the elegant and attractive Miss W-- F-dge, of -- Avenue, and it is hinted that a marriage is on the tapis." 
               It is unnecessary to say that Mrs. Fudge expressed herself very much scandalized with this public mention of her daughter, and yet read the announcement with praiseworthy frequency in her own chamber. The same thing might be said of most of the individuals who are the subject of fashionable mention in the above-named journal. 
               Young Quid, on a visit to the Springs, drank wine (sour Jullien, labelled Margaux) with Mrs. Fudge and daughter. Through the influence, however, of Mrs. Spindle, who was at the head of a Saratoga coterie that rivalled the Fudge coterie, he withdrew his attentions. My aunt Solomon, however, sustained her part nobly in the summer contest. True, the Spindles boasted blood; but the Fudge carriage was the handsomer. The Spindle parlor was on the second floor-the Fudge parlor was on the first floor. One gentleman of the Fudge coterie sang ballads-no gentleman of the Spindle connection did sing ballads. The Count Salle was cool to the Spindles-the Count Salle was empress with Wilhelmina. 
               Arabella Spindle was barely mentioned in the Herald correspondence-Wilhelmina was praised. The Spindles bowled-the Fudges said it was vulgar to bowl, and Wilhelmina played at billiards with the Count. The Fudges walked upon the porch after dinner-the Spindles said it was vulgar, and Arabella walked in a flat, after breakfast. 
               Wilhelmina had the reputation of being heiress; not only in virtue of the father's wealth, but just now there were hints bruited of a certain Bodgers' estate, to which she laid large claim. This matter was spoken of mysteriously by the mother; indeed, she hardly suffered it to modify her conduct-except in shopping. 
               Under all the circumstances, with a daughter reputed heiress, being herself of commanding presence, having risen to the dignity of chief of a Saratoga coterie, honored with a Count in her train, I think that my aunt might safely be considered a lady in the best society. It is certain that she held herself in that estimation. For this, she was indebted, in nearly equal proportions, to the piquancy of Wilhelmina (the Spindles said she was fast); a few daring speculations of uncle Solomon; the manifest admiration of the Count Salle; last winter's party (costing, by Mr. Brown's estimate, four thousand, seven hundred and sixty-three dollars); the antagonism of the Spindles; and the rumor of the Bodgers windfall. 
               If these combined do not offer as stable ground for fashionable elevation in New York as can exist, I should be pleased to be informed what the other grounds might be. I revere my aunt Solomon for her attainments; I admire her coach; I relish her filets  la sauce piquante; I watch with interest the Dauphin speculation; I try to comprehend Wilhelmina's French; I am amused with the Count; I keep up my intimacy with the family; I am esteemed, I may say that I am courted, by young men; and enjoy frequent juleps at their expense. 
               It is unpleasant to mar this festive and agreeable description; but constant sun-shine does not belong even to the supremest fashion; and it happens often, that the golden hinge on which revolves every door to fashionable pleasure, wears thin with the using. 
               On a certain Sunday-visit, my uncle Solomon wore a long face; longer than his Sunday wont. The hot days of mid-summer are not favorable to fancy-stocks; and the Dauphin had very likely drooped. Money was not easy to be found; and certain heavy bills, dated Paris, had come to hand, with an awkward beginning, to wit: "at sight." 
               The old gentleman had already found it necessary to mortgage, in a quiet manner, his house upon the Avenue, in furtherance of his coal-speculations; and a new demand for money, in a way so little likely to make speedy return as that indicated in the sight-drafts of young Wash, disturbed my uncle Solomon seriously. Mrs. Fudge, too, had her own sources of disquiet, not only in the advised curtailment of the summer's visit, but in certain distressing hints thrown out in the somewhat rambling epistle of her Parisian son. She feared he might have fallen into low company. 
               In the midst of these distresses, which were somewhat relieved by reflections upon the Bodgers estate, my worthy uncle had been considerably startled by the receipt of a short note, very politely worded, from Mr. Quid, senior, bearing this interpretation, viz.: 
               Mr. Quid begged to inform Mr. Fudge, as one of the parties most nearly concerned, that he, Mr. Quid, had entered upon the proper legal steps for securing to his son, Adolphus Quid, heir-at-law, the estate of the late Truman Bodgers, Esq. 
               It might not be uninteresting (Mr. Quid thought) to Mr. Fudge, to know that Adolphus Quid entered claims to the property alluded to, as only son of Mrs. Quid who was only child of former Mrs. Bodgers, widow to elder brother of Truman Bodgers, Esq. 
               He, Mr. Quid, did hope that an affair connected with so painful an event would be arranged pleasantly, and to the satisfaction of all parties; this, at any rate, was eminently prayed for, by his obt. servt., Quid, etc. 
               It will not appear strange that the communication of this fact, coupled with the advertisement, that it would be necessary to bring to a speedy end the Saratoga visit, should have greatly distressed my cousin Wilhelmina; and diminished, to a very sad extent, the auroral charm of which I have spoken, as playing about the countenance of Mrs. Solomon Fudge. 
             
             
                
               XXIV. SHOWING NO HOPE IN HARRY. 
                
                  
                     Houssaye says of Andre Gretry, in his pleasant book about poets, "He loved those most whom he did not see; it was hope, rather than the memory of love; reverie, rather than passion." It seems very natural.
                   
                
               THE Americans are in the habit of boasting their security against revolution. It is true enough that we have no wicked kings to pull down, and no idols to set up; but, in place of this, there is going on, in a quiet fashion, a prodigious social revolution, which undermines, year by year, the thrones of the Jenkinses, and the Pinkertons, and the What-nots; and paves a golden road to supremacy for the Browns, and the Smiths, and the What-d'ye-call-ems. 
               Let the police of the mantua-makers and bill-brokers do what they will, and they cannot arrest that stupendous swell of golden principles which swamps, one by one, the inhabitants of small houses and the keepers of one-horse gigs, and establishes upon their dismembered ruins the successful jobbers of John street, and the contractors for the Corporation. 
               Well may all ambitious spirits exclaim: "Would that I were born a cousin to the Common Council, or an inventor of paving-stones!" 
               We have not even the consolation of possessing, among the dbris of revolutions, a party of the ancien rgime. The wreck of the past sinks not only out of power, but out of all position. The city incense is consumed by only one set of nostrils. The foremost noses catch it all; and the hinder-most titillate the mucous membrane with cheap snuffs, and bide their time. 
               I am aware that I am figurative, and perhaps, like most figurative writers, obscure. I mean to say, however, in plain language, that the elegant will not be always elegant, the Pinkertons always Pinkertons, or the Fudges always Fudges. Four generations-as generations count in the New York cycle (shorter than most)-are sufficient, in ordinary centuries, to effect the revolution at which I have hinted. If Solomon Fudge, wife, daughter, and son, shall have reached, during the present epoch, a mentionable place upon the social calendar; if the Papa guards well the stocks, realty, or bonds which underlie the family structure; if Madame offends not against religion, and continues to buy hats of Lawson; if Mademoiselle accomplishes her French, and gets always her gowns of Gavelle; if Washington is recognized as a nice young man, there is reason to believe that the suns of the next generation will ripen the remnants of my aunt's stock into one of the "first families" of New York. 
               But, the zenith once reached, decline becomes inevitable; and there is reason to fear that the grandchildren may linger out a wretched existence on club-room door-steps, or in the society of artistes; and as for their descendants (supposing them honestly married), they may very likely droop into professional employment, or some unknown and honest occupation. 
               But, even here, the third or fourth in descent from the stout Phbe will have a hard struggle to make their place good against the strong-witted fellows, who have been schooled by country-poverty, and strengthened by a country-heaven; and who have come to the city, if they come at all, very resolute to make their way sure. 
               Many a time, in philosophic humor, I single out upon the walks of the town some coarse-clad boy, with an awkward kind of wonder, and yet spirit in his eye, with a quick, firm step, and a bold daring in his carriage, who, I fancy, will thirty years hence, have accumulates some great store of influence, if not of money, and command the key to those halls at which he gazes now so wonderingly. And in the same mood, I am apt to cast some pitiful horoscope for the weak-limbed children who are reared under city glass, and the corrupting notion that effeminacy creates refinement; and as I see them staggering along, in the leading of French nurses, and under clouds of lace, their frail walk seems to me to epitomise the life through which they will stagger on, always beclouded; and with never the gain of that self-supporting energy, without which, under such institutions as ours, a man sinks below the level of a citizen. 
               I have said thus much, in a sermon-like way, as a preface to some further account of those two representatives of young manhood, Mr. Harry Flint, now Attorney at Law in the city of San Francisco, and Mr. Washington Fudge-elegant young gentleman, suspected of duellism and of intrigue in Paris. At the present epoch of their history, as it appears in these "observations," there is scarce a city-mother of them all, but would welcome to their arms (meaning their daughters' arms) the elegant Wash; and there is hardly one but would blush to give our friend Harry a corner-seat in their Sunday pew. 
               Let those who will, mourn over the last; I shall reserve my own tears for my exquisite cousin Wash. 
               San Francisco has proved the grave of a great many young and vigorous hopes; chiefly, however, belonging to those who fancied, that to be in the neighborhood of gold, was to get it; and that if they carried their pitchers to a good well, they would fill without a dipping. Such adventurers might have stayed their appetites by looking in at the windows of Ball, Tompkins, and Black; and would have learned Spanish by attentively regarding the cover of Baretti's octavo Dictionary. 
               It is my opinion, that without work, and spirit, and nerve, a young, or an old man, is as well in a Dauphin "dip," as in a Sonora placer. But Harry Flint had them all; clouded, very likely, with the "overcast" of leave-taking, and vague, shadowy creations of that active boy-fancy which, in the past years of all of us, has kindled home-glories not very far from the places that cherished us-glories that fade. I will not venture to say that, in the lulls of the short ocean-crossing, there did not course over Harry's mind, doubts and questionings which almost took the edge away from his stronger purpose. But he put them down, even as the broad sunshine and soft south breezes put down the waves which high and cold winds had blown up. 
               Harry had, moreover, I dare say, his share of those gigantic thoughts which pile out of ocean's level, to the eye of youth, and which seem to lift, and spread in rays of light, like a golden-sunrise; dashed, however, I do not doubt, with clouds, when the thought leaned over him, in times of musing, of the pretty country Kitty, who had chased butterflies with him in the summer days gone-no more butterflies for the man: no more such summer gam-bollings; no more of Kitty for ever. 
               And the mellowing of such thought may, very likely, have made him cling more lovingly to the old prayer-book, in which a mother, that he once had, had written (with ink now grown pale) his name and her own. Dreamy religious hopes, and vague worldly griefs, or disappointments, touch each other very closely; and make up between them a delicious kind of sentiment, without, I am sorry to say, much active force in any direction, and not abiding a single swift call of duty. They are like, if I may serve myself of a rhetorical figure, the pretty coils of mist which float from the river-tops of a summer's morning, seeming almost to be clouds, but drank up and consumed utterly when the sun has mounted. 
                
               Crowding griefs, like crowding joys, are great kindlers of the religious element; which, in the ordinary roads of life, where are neither dangers of pit-fall, nor any bows of promise, is but too apt to play the part of a stupid and drowsy sentinel. When, therefore, we are disposed to praise a man for any show of religious fervor, it is worth while to inquire whether his spirit has been stirred by past suffering, or quickened by present hope. 
               A man is judged by his temptations, as much as by his actions; and forces which give rapid motion on descending ground, will grow tame enough upon a level, and vanish altogether where hills are to be mounted. 
               All which has very little to do with our friend Harry, and his ventures in San Francisco; I, therefore, march straight back to my subject. 
               Harry knew how to work; and did work; he had, moreover, an open, honest face, which tempted trust in others; and this is not without its effect, even among sharpers. He had, moreover, the less serviceable quality of trusting others too blindly-a youth-like fault, which is cured with using-most of all, in such intercourse as our growing State of California affords. A small token of this harmful quality of our friend Harry's nature, must be joined to this history: I speak of nothing less than the loss of a snug bit of capital which he had borne across the seas with him, and which the offer of large returns tempted him to loan, upon that uncertain kind of security which, from no small observations of my own, I am satisfied, is apt to accompany the percentages which are reckoned by the month. As a general rule, that interest-money which much exceeds the marketable rates of the world, is found to leak out of the capital which serves as security; and, in the metallic, as well as in the vegetable world, excess of flowering and fruit is found to exhaust the juices of the trunk. 
               But there was left to Harry, for a time, at least, the capital of a stout arm and a quick brain; than which, in my opinion, no better capital can belong to a hopeful American, who has youth and health for his endorsers. 
               It will be remembered that he had left Newtown a few days before the final leave-taking of Mr. Bodgers; and the news of that old gentleman's sudden decease did not reach him until he had gained his new home upon the Pacific. I need not say it was a surprise to him, and had almost said it was a relief; for I do believe that, had he still remained in the ancient village, he would have made one of the most cheerful mourners at the old gentleman's tomb. 
                
               Indeed, had his funds been in a less exhausted condition, I am inclined to think that he would, most unwisely and foolishly as it seems to me, have given up his new projects of life, re-crossed the two oceans, and paid his tribute of melancholy at the grave of Squire Bodgers. And if, in such event, he had witnessed the confiding way in which a certain Kitty Fleming leaned upon the arm of an elegant and youthful Mr. Quid, I think his religious fervor would have left him utterly, and the third commandment, in a mild form, have been broken. 
               It was fortunate, then, that he had lost his capital. The letters which conveyed to him the news of the river-accident, gave no intelligence of the state of the affairs of the Bodgers estate; and it was only at a very much later date that he received from the gossiping aunt, who cherished kindly the fortunes of his little sister, a very rigmarole account of expectancies, on the part of Fudges, Quids, and Flemings. I shall take the liberty of subjoining a portion: 
               
                  "You have heard," she says, "of the old Squire's death; nobody knows yet to whom his property is going. Some said to Mrs. Fudge, or to Mrs. Fleming; but now there is talk of a city young fellow, who is connected, nobody knows how, with an elder sister or brother of the Squire's, and so lays a claim to the whole of the property. They do say, too, that young Mr. Quid, which is the name of this person, is courting Mistress Kitty, who has grown, they say, very city-like, and it may be true. I don't like the furbelowing she has got in the town; and there are as nice fish in the sea, Harry, as ever were caught: which will be true when you come home.
                  "Squire Bivins looks very wise about matters, as is of right he should, and shakes his head in the talk about Kitty, and Mrs. Fleming, and Quid, and the rest, and seems to know more than he tells. They do say he made the Squire's will, and keeps it in his pigeon-hole. Hitty Bivins says that Kitty won't be so rich as people think; and that she is no better than the country-folks in Newtown.
                  "The Squire's house is shut up, and people say is haunted with an old gentleman with an arm slung in a bandana handkerchief, as when he died, which I do not believe. Bessy is charmingly, the dear thing, and sends a kiss to you."
                
               And Harry takes the kiss joyfully, and the chitchat of the old lady very thankfully; and abandoning, or trying hard to abandon, all other memories of the leafy by-ways of Newtown, rustling in his night-ear often, girds himself to work like a man. But crosses, and vexations, and sicknesses lie across the way of almost all of us, as we push on to fortune; and soon the harsh, dry atmosphere of that Pacific coast, with its burden of dust, cut through the health armor, that friend Harry had long worn so bravely, and laid him a very repining and desponding mortal, upon a sick-bed. 
               Sickness is awkward anywhere, with the fretting of nurses, and the long-delayed visits of doctors, and the consciousness that you, and all you have to work for, is at a stand-still, while the world, roaring in at your window, is pushing on fastly, and shaking you from its remembrance. But most of all is this true in a far-away place, where no coming friends can cheat you of the outside lapse of things, and where time and work are all that keep you afoot in the noisy whirl. 
               Poor Harry, then, suffered bitterly; and his uneasy delirium took strange and ungracious phases, in which a little friend, of dainty summer-hat, appeared transformed into a fine lady driving in a claret-coach, and with a strange-faced companion. The doctor looked doubtfully upon his case. 
               I could heartily wish, with every sympathetic reader, that he could now have the care of even the lean Mehitable, and be restored again to the "corner-office ner-office," and the hum-drum life of the deserted village. It might well be that the air would restore him again; it might well be, too, that he should have an important word to add to the discussions of administrators upon the Bodgers estate, around the dusty table of Ebenezer Bivins. 
               And if Fate, which plays such odd pranks with all of us, had not just now tossed him away across the seas, and stretched him on a bed, from which there is faint hope of his rising again, Harry might give important testimony. Indeed, had he never shown the absurd jealousy which misled him on a certain occasion; and had he taken a reasonable view of the old uncle's intent; and could he now acquaint the officiating administrator with his witnessing the will; and could he trace up the paper to the hands of the discomfited Blimmer, and the Jerry-like copy of the instrument; and could he, thereafter, leave a bouquet at the door of Mrs. Fleming; and follow up such advance with a moonlight walk in the company of Mistress Kitty; and thrust into her hands the rent-roll of the late Mr. Bodgers; and swear that, being an heiress, he will never think of her more; and shortly after repent, and swear that he will love her "for ever and a day"-I might close my observations of the Fudge family, with the present chapter, in a very effective manner. But historians cannot dispose of Providence; and even biographers are compelled to show a reasonable regard for facts. 
               Harry, as I said, is upon a sick bed, from which there is a likelihood that he may never rise again. The will, which, perhaps, might place the Bodgers estate in the hands of my cousin Kitty, is in the keeping of the Quids-if, indeed, it be not destroyed. The discomfited Blimmer is sold doubly to secresy. Kitty is beset with snares, if she has not altogether lost the innocence of her country nature. Mr. Solomen Fudge is in a difficult position. My aunt, Mrs. Phbe, delighting in an elegant round of acquaintances, sympathizes, for once, with the straitened condition of her husband. Wilhelmina is doubtful of the Salle, and despairs of the Spindle. In short, I am confounded with the mass of my material and the intricacy of events. So far from finishing my story with the present chapter, I must open a new one, with the Fudge and Guerlin intrigue. 
             
             
                
               XXV. WASHINGTON SHOWS SENSIBILITY. 
                
                   
                     
                        "Geo. Sand says of Pierre Heugenin in the Tour de France, 'Sa nature, toute tourne  la contemplation mditative, excluait cette activit pratique, cette habilet spciale, qui sont necessaires.'
                        "I say the same of cousin Wash.
                      
                     TONY FUDGE." 
                   
                
               WASHINGTON FUDGE continues in the exercise of elegant accomplishments. He is not a little proud of the sensation he can make at the Ranelagh; he is equally proud of the marked effect he produces on the minds of such of his countrymen as encounter him in his drives through the Bois de Boulogne, in company with the Countess de Guerlin. He pictures to himself, with infinite satisfaction, the surprise and delighted admiration which would overcome the minds of his mamma and of Wilhe, if they could but feast their eyes upon him as he adjusts his gloves (couleur de paille), in a front box of the opera, and brings his lorgnette to bear upon the established beauties of the house. 
               But there are some thorns, I have remarked, in the path of pleasure, even on the asphalte of Paris. Our elegant cousin has his sources of uneasiness; among which may be mentioned a disturbed recollection of very many sight-drafts upon his esteemed father-an elegant succession of expenses, and a lively fear of the resentful character of that accomplished swordsman, the Colonel Duprez. 
               But Wash is not forsaken by the Countess, although he has grown timid in his approaches to the quiet salon of the Rue de Helder. She is kind to him; I will not say but that she rallies him, now and then, about attention to new sword-practice; still, she is kind. She appreciates the embarrassment of his position. She avows herself greatly indebted to him; she has become the unwilling instrument of his losses. How can she ever repay her cher Fudge? How? It would be hard, at this point of our history, to say. 
               No one can be unreasonable enough to think that the apathetic Solomon, late Mayor, with the gold-bowed spectacles resting on his forehead, in his snug counting-room at the bank, could receive notice of Washington's drafts upon him with indifference. Very far from it. I have already hinted at various disturbing causes, in the usually placid level of my uncle Solomon's thought. 
               He determined with himself that it was high time the elegant young gentleman should return to his own country, and give proof of his accomplishments upon American soil. I cannot say that he participated to the full extent in Mrs. Phbe's pride and hopes. He wrote as follows: 
               
                   
                      
                         
                           "MY DEAR WASHINGTON:-I cannot pay longer your frequent drafts upon me. My affairs are not in so good case as at last writing. Practise economy, and make arrangements to return speedily, when I hope you will enter immediately upon some sound business-calling. 
                           "Your mamma will advise you of what has transpired with reference to the Bodgers estate since our last writing. This will be a new cause for retrenchment, as we can hardly hope to oppose successfully the Quid claims. Money is at a high figure in the street; and should you need a few hundreds to return, draw on me at sixty days. 
                           
                              "YOUR AFFECTIONATE FATHER."
                            
                         
                      
                  
                
               Mrs. Fudge writes thus: 
               
                   
                      
                         
                           "MY DEAR WASHY:-I have very much to tell you. We are terribly disturbed; you have heard of Mr. Bodgers' death, and how he left no will, as any one can find. Your father was made administrator, with Mr. Bivins, and things were going very well, as we thought, and Kitty would have had a handsome slice, which would have made her perhaps to be considered as a match for you, my dear son, although she is a cousin, when, on a sudden, Mr. Quid, the father of the young gentleman you know, called on Mr. Fudge, and, showing him some old papers he has, which I suppose are testimonials, made a claim for the whole of the property, and what it all is, I don't know; and your father is anxious, besides that; the bank is doing badly, and our expenses with you and Wilhe are heavy. 
                           "We were obliged to come away from Saratoga, although Wilhe was the rage, and Mr. Marvin was desola when we came. Everybody talked of the Count Salle, who seems to have money; although your father says he would like to see the title-deeds, which, as the Count is a gentleman, it would be absurd to expect. He has not offered himself, although Wilhe says 'he has as good as done it;' so has young Spindle, she says, who has behaved odiously. 
                           "The Pinkertons are dreadfully jealous, and have given a ball, not to be compared with ours, as Browne says; and Wilhe was not invited, and is sorry she ever invited them. Mr. Fudge says he must write you to come home, where we will all be glad to see you; and do make a figure, if only to spite the Pinkertons. Before you come, buy us each a dress, and two flounces of mechlin lace, which I hear is cheap in England, also, if you see them, two pretty fans, and a cashmere shawl for Wilhe, beside, an enamelled watch, which the Count says costs mere nothing. 
                           "I forgot to say that there is a story that Mr. Quid's mother lived in Paris, and was named Guerlin, which seems like the name of the Countess you spoke of, and perhaps they were relations. 
                           "Wilhe sends love, and not to forget the shawl. 
                           
                              "YOUR AFFECTIONATE MOTHER.
                            
                         
                         
                           "P. S.-As you are getting the watch, perhaps it would be as well to buy the chain with it. Take care of your health, Washy, and if you should see sleeves to match the flounces, Wilhe would like a pair, as also your tender loving mother." 
                         
                      
                  
                
               Now it happened that our cousin Wash found himself in the receipt of these letters upon a day on which he was under engagement with the fascinating Countess de Guerlin, for a drive in the Bois de Boulogne; and he had but a short time left the hospitable two-per-cent. caisse of Messieurs. Greene, and was strolling in a brown study towards the Champs Elyses, when he was encountered by the dashing coup of the Countess. 
               A French woman is sympathetic by nature, and very much more so by education. The perplexity of Wash did not fail to attract the observation of his companion of the drive. The Countess, with characteristic kindness, won her way to his full confidence. She lamented anew those losses of which she had been unconsciously the occasion; she spoke with emotion of his probable leave. Washington was affected deeply. So was the Countess. She took into her own hands the cruel letters which compelled his return. She read, with unaffected surprise, the announcement in respect to her own name. Subduing her emotion, by an effort of resolution which did her honor, she pressed a hundred inquiries respecting this Mr. Quid, and the Bodgers' estate, and the probable heirs, and having learned from Master Wash all which it was in his power to communicate, her feelings again subdued her, and she threw herself back into the corner of the coup, apparently overcome by contending emotions. 
               The efforts of Washington to assuage the tempest of feeling were utterly unavailing. 
               "Cher Fudge, laissez moi pleurer;" and the face of the Countess was buried in a cambric handkerchief. 
               The hint of the letter had plainly touched some sympathetic chord; there was a mysterious connection, perhaps, between himself and the family of the Countess, which puzzled our hero greatly. My curious reader cannot be more anxious to unveil that profound mystery than was Washington himself. Life, so far as I have observed, is made up of entanglements, and of hard knots, not always easy to untie; and when untied, often showing very flimsy strands. 
                
               The drive in the Bois de Boulogne was, that day, a very silent one; but Washington, before it was ended, won from the Countess a promise that she would reveal all-all. This she did, a few days afterwards; and I cannot keep my reader from it. 
               "I never," said she, "knew my father;" and the Countess hid her face in her pocket-handkerchief. 
               I am persuaded that she began her story in a truthful manner 
               "My mother was a tall woman," she continued, "who wore very elegant jewelry; there is very little left;" and the Countess pointed with emotion to a broach she wore. "I think she must have been very rich, since I had what dresses I chose. It seems to me that she spoke in English, although I remember little about it now. Your voice, my dear Wash, seems to call back the memory of other days to me [very tenderly]. 
               "We were living mostly in large cities, and I remember it was by a great river, which I am sure must have been the Rhine. There were long tables, too, full of people, at which I sometimes sat down with my mother, when I was very small; but oftener I was left with a nurse-maid, who had the sole care of me. There were many gentlemen who talked with my mother, and she seemed very gay; and the gentlemen, who I found afterwards were suitors of my mother, gave me toys, or patted me under my chin, calling me a likeness of my mother, and saying that one day perhaps I would be as pretty as she. I remember that she was fine-looking. 
               "At length, a Monsieur de Guerlin married her; and then we were travelling from city to city; I was sometimes with them, but oftener left with the nurse-maid, who was beautiful herself, and who had a small home in a town by the river, and a daughter who was nearly of my age. As children, I remember that we frolicked together, rambling through the vineyards that were scattered on the hills above the town. 
               "Sometimes my mother, with Monsieur de Guerlin lin, came there to see me; and very often Monsieur de Guerlin came by himself, which seemed strange enough to me, for he was never kind after the marriage, and cared more for Clara, which was the name of the nurse-maid's child, than for me. 
               "The nurse, too, who had been good to me before, was never so kind after my mother's marriage; and was angry if I spoke of the handsome Monsieur de Guerlin as my father; saying that Clara deserved better to be called his child, than I. But we were too young to heed such things then, and Clara was not flattered, nor I disturbed by it. I soon found that I could not have so fine dresses as before, and Clara might have been taken for the richer of the two: indeed, I remember thinking, that what my mother had sent for me might, perhaps, be given to the nurse's child. 
               "So we lived together, until one day the news came that my mother was very sick, and we went away to a city, where we found Monsieur de Guerlin very much disturbed; and he had much to say very earnestly to the nurse; and the night on which we arrived, there was a commotion in the house; and they told me my mother was dead. 
               "I remember the funeral, and how Clara was dressed in black, as well as I; and wore a little brooch which I had seen my mother wear. And Monsieur de Guerlin was very kind to her. A few days after, the people of the house told me that M. de Guerlin had gone, and I found the nurse and child had gone with him. They directed me to a place in the town where I was to stay; only strangers to me were living there, and they, I suppose, were paid to take care of me. There I grew up, but did not see, for many years after, either M. de Guerlin, or the nurse-maid of my mother's. They had forsaken me, and borne off all that was my mother's with them, except a few jewels, which you, cher Wash, have guarded." 
               And the Countess betook herself, for some moments, to strong emotion. 
               "The money which Monsieur de Guerlin paid for me was continued only until I grew up. At the last, he sent to me a large sum with which I was to begin the world. With the education of a lady, I could not think of entering into service. The city in which I was staying, was not far away from Wiesbaden, and I had heard of the gaming-tables there. To Wiesbaden, then, I went; and, living humbly, and doing such needle-work as I could without being observed, I slipped evening after evening into the salon of roulette, and from the first was very fortunate. I began with only pieces of silver, but grew more bold, and soon staked gold coin; sometimes times, it is true, losing very much, but fortune favored me mostly. Especially, I was lucky one evening, when, after losing for several nights in succession, I determined, in a fit of despair, to risk all my fortune at rouge et noir.
                
               "The rules of the table did not then limit the sums staked, so much as now; and I gathered up all my coin, and even pawned my valuable jewels, to make the amount as large as possible. I carried it tremblingly to the hall-a very heavy weight it was for me-and placed it, after a little hesitation, upon the rouge. My heart beat violently. I could not count the cards as they were dealt, my emotion was too great. I closed my eyes, and dared not open them, until I heard the clink of the money. 
               "The red had won; and I was rich. 
               "The next day, I went to Baden, and established myself, with a servant, in lodgings. I frequented the fashionable drives, and sometimes ventured with success into the gaming-halls. It is not well to be without a title at the German watering-places: I was known there as the Countess de Guerlin, though before only as simple Mademoiselle. With the wealth that I seemed to enjoy, and with fair beauty"-and the Countess lowered her voice, as if in apology-"there were many who admired me. The poor Baron Schemlinn was, I believe, earnest in his attentions; nothing could exceed his devotion: but he had desperate rivals. Ah! my dear Fudge, it has been my fate to draw many into misfortune! 
               "The Prince Gorowski, a magnificent Russian, was at the same time a suitor of mine. Oh! those fearful Russians! they love as they eat, with prodigality and with fierceness. They are barbarians in all their appetites. The Prince would not yield to the Baron. I saw it, and deplored it. The Prince sought to quarrel with poor Schemlinn, who was but an indifferent swordsman. I foresaw the result, but could do nothing to prevent it. 
               "They met early at morning: the Baron sent me a lock of his hair, the dear, poor man! Yet he stood his ground manfully, and the duel lasted for an hour. At length, the force of Schemlinn gave way, and he fell. The Prince, with his sword at his breast, bade him renounce all claim to my hand: the poor Baron refused, and was killed with my name upon his lips. 
               "As you may suppose, cher Wash, I was desole. Gorowski was cruel in his triumph, and claimed my hand as his reward. How could I yield myself to his blood-stained arms? He persecuted me by his demands: there seemed no safety but in flight. Upon this, then, I was resolved; but the Prince watched jealously all my motions; I could not escape him. As a last resource, I determined to appeal to my neighbor in lodgings. This was a middle-aged man, of resolute aspect-none other, in short, my dear Fudge, than that Colonel Duprez, whom you already have such unfortunate occasion to know. He saved me, indeed, from the Russian persecution; but I found myself compelled, by the force of circumstances, to marry the man of whom I had only sought temporary aid. 
               "Why need I tell you more?" said the Countess; but continued presently: "Clara I saw once again, under the name of Mademoiselle de Guerlin, which she had assumed, by what right I know not. She afterwards married a stranger; perhaps, my dear Fudge, the gentleman through whom the claim is now made upon the American estate. 
               "Monsieur de Guerlin I never saw again; but the wretched man had traced me out, and upon his death-bed left me the little fortune which he had received from his wife, my poor mother; and with it a paquet of letters, which, I am sure, my dear Fudge, will satisfy you of the truth of my story, and convince you, as they have done me, that my mother must have been the widowed sister of the old gentleman whose estate is in dispute. Yet, how little did I think, when first addressing one clandestinely, in a tempest of admiration that I was not able to subdue, that, in reality, I was drawn towards him by ties of kindred; and that in him alone I should find a truly generous protector, through whom, at length, my rights should be made good, and my poor mother's name cleared from all reproach." 
               The Countess was painfully subdued; so was Washington. 
               The paquet of letters to which reference had been made, was produced. They were certainly suspicious in their contents, and would have satisfied, perhaps, a less ingenuous and open disposition than that of my cousin Wash. Many of them were signed Marie Bodgers; others, still, Marie de Guerlin; and others, again, in a strong hand, bore the signature of S. Bodgers. They were letters, generally of affection: the Countess was melted to tears as she suffered her eyes to run over them. 
               As a man of honor, there was but one course open to Washington. At the same time, as the Countess intimated, there was need for extreme caution. First of all, the Colonel Duprez must by no means be advised. There was not reciprocity of feeling, at least of affection, between the two. Young Fudge had perhaps observed this. For private ends of his own, the Colonel had insisted that the Countess should retain her original name. Under connections of that kind, the circumstance was not unusual. 
               Most of all, the Countess rejoiced in the opportunity, which now seemed dawning upon her, of being able to repay the generous services of her friend Washy. She should be delighted, indeed, to give token of her indebtedness to the whole Fudge connection; and voluntarily bound herself, by a solemn promise, to relinquish to the dear friends of the Fudge family a full third of the estates which she inherited from her mother. 
               I should do injustice to the tender sensibilities and innocent heart of my cousin Wash, if I omitted to say that he was altogether captivated by the united grace and generosity of the Countess de Guerlin. 
               It was arranged that Washington should not leave the city alone. The presence of the Countess would doubtless be necessary, in the prosecution of the legal claims. With generous confidence, he volunteered his escort. He wrote to his friends at home of the triumphant discovery which had been made, and expressing confidence, "that if the estate was to pass out of their reach, as seemed likely enough, they could not do better than to poney up to the Countess. 
               He felt sure, moreover, that his father would freely pardon a somewhat larger draft than he had anticipated, in view of the rather straitened circumstances of the Countess, and the obligations which duty enjoined. 
               The preparations for departure were made with secresy and dispatch. On a certain evening in the month of --, our friend Wash set off from Paris, for his return. He was polished by the gay capital; taught in the little arts of the world; scarcely to be recognized by his old friends. 
               The fond Countess was with him: herself his gratuitous instructor in very much of that savoir faire, which was presently to kindle the affections of his doting mother into transports. 
               He felt, doubtless, an honest pride in these accomplishments, and formed pleasant fancies of the surprise he should excite, and of the astonishment he was sure to kindle. I am inclined to think that, like most young New Yorkers on their return from Paris, he had formed an exaggerated estimate of the sensation he was about to produce. The town, taken as a mass, does not, I observe, feel the shock of such a young gentleman's return. I cannot ascertain that it creates any decided movement at the "Board," or that it influences Mr. Genio Scott's report of the fashions. These travellers err in imagining that their air and education is to form a striking contrast with what they will find around them. They discover, however, in the majority of instances, that the tailors and hair-dressers have been before them; and have already diffused among the young natives of New York a Parisian aspect and an elegant air. I should say that the young gentlemen of the New York Club, of the short canes, of the new polkas, and of affluence generally, were as much indebted to a study of the operaartistes, and the foreign managers of domestic drapers, as to any principles they imbibe from returned travellers. And it would not be at all surprising, if our cousin Wash., upon his very first entre in New York society, should be mortified by a sight of higher shirt-collars, more bushy mustache, and smaller pantaloons than he brings with him, in the company of the Countess. 
               By a hint from the Guerlin, and as a measure of precaution, Wash accompanies his friend under a common passport, in which they are designated as man and wife. It is but a simple bit of illusion, lasting only as far as their port of embarkation. 
               They reach Havre a day before the sailing of the vessel which is to bear them to that free land, where the Countess shall receive her own, and the elegant Wash enter upon his brilliant career. 
               In the beguiling thought of what this may be, our hero whiles away the evening with his graceful companion; interrupted, however, once, by a slight tap at the door. 
               It is the maid, perhaps. 
               "Entrez!" says Wash. 
               There is a tap again. 
               "Entrez!" repeats Wash. 
               It is not the maid: but the Colonel Duprez! 
             
             
                
               XXVI. A TRIPLET OF LETTERS. 
                
                   
                     
                        I. "Cui cum paupertate bene convenit, dives est; non qui parum habet, sed qui plus cupit, pauper est."
                      
                     LUCIAN. 
                   
                
                
                   
                     
                         
                           II."The truth she loved above all earthly wight, 
                           Yet could not tell her love; but what she saide 
                           Was certain true, and she a perfect maide." 
                        
                      
                     LORD BROOKES. 
                   
                
                
                   
                     
                         
                           "Wilhe comes next, who with the tyranny 
                           Of subtle rules, distinctions, terms, and notions, 
                           Confounds of real truth the harmony." 
                        
                      
                     OLD POET: apud Fid. TONY. 
                   
                
               MY uncle Solomon, under the circumstances which just now cast their shadow upon the Fudge family, is depressed. I observe that his white cravat is frequently tied awry. I observe that his gold-bowed spectacles repose less frequently upon his serene forehead; and far oftener with a discerning look upon the bridge of his nose. Even in conversation, I notice that they maintain their position here as if they interposed a shield between his secret anxieties and the obtrusive eye of the world. There are times when we all like to set a screen between ourselves and the penetrating look of others: and blessed is the man or the woman who rarely feels this liking, or the want which creates it. 
               As I regard my uncle Solomon now-a-days, I reflect with philosophic pleasure upon that independence and high-spiritedness which belong to-nothing: and regale myself with the thought that stocks may be high or low; rich men's sons stultifying themselves in Paris, or elsewhere; intrusive Quids starting arrogant claims; large women growing larger and more red; yet I, the bachelor Tony, lively, with good digestion, impulsive, easy-tempered, am disturbed by none of these things; but look all the world straight in the face-having no need of spectacles, or of-Absinthe. 
               Phbe and Solomon use monosyllables more than ever. Solomon feels that Phbe spends a great deal of money; Phbe feels that Solomon does not make an effective use of money. 
               "What is the use of burying it in coal-mines?" says Phbe. And Solomon winces; for he thinks of the Dauphin and the Parker vein. 
                
               "If you couldn't afford it, Mr. Fudge, why did you ever come into the Avenue?" says Phbe. 
               And Solomon thinks, in a desolate way, of the Axministers, and frescoes, and Louis Quatorze chairs. I do not know but he begins to regret the sums which have been lavished upon the French tutelage and harp-practice of Miss Wilhelmina. They may perhaps have made her the envy of other men's daughters; but he does not clearly perceive how they have added greatly to the charms of his fireside, or brought her nearer to him in the way of comforting his old heart. 
               For it is even true that there are soft places in the hearts of nearly all the world-even in those of brokers-where quiet hopes grow up of a domestic and tender sort, which, if they be not fed, canker, and consume away painfully. Sentiment may be staved off, and laughed at cleverly enough; and stocks and percentages fill up a large measure of a man's desire; but, ten to one, there will lie in him somewhere, after all, a longing for pleasant fire-side confidences, where what is left of the boy and of the son at the bottom of all his oldness, may speak out and rejoice itself. 
               I do not think that the brocaded Wilhelmina, who had been paragraphed at Saratoga, and who flirted incontinently, in rivalry of all the Spindles and Pinkertons, touched any such place in the old Solomon's heart, or made it lighter when his thought fell on his home in the Avenue. There was an out-sidedness to the whole matter of his house, his wife, his child, and (I may add) his Dauphin stock, which made him sigh for something which had inside. It was all compounded of a struggle to seem; and there was no effort to be. 
               Howbeit, the outside must be kept good, so long as strength lasts, by those who live in that direction; and I may say that it is just now in the city a very favorite direction. Houses are elegantly crusted; education runs to piquancies; and to succeed, is to seem to. 
               Therefore, my uncle Solomon looks about him to see what pretences he can still hang up between his state real, and his state fashionable. The Bodgers' windfall is likely to prove no windfall at all. The Quid papers are very strong indeed: so strong that even Mr. Plainet, his lawyer, advises him to make the best compromise he can. He enters, therefore, manfully upon this scheme; discusses the affair with dignity, in company with Mr. Quid and his lawyer; maintains to the eye of both his character as a man of great means, who thinks lightly of small sums; presses the claims of the widow Fleming with what seems disinterestedness, and which really would be so, were he not overborne with the hope of imposing upon his listeners the belief of his own perfect soundness and security. 
               The upshot of the affair may be seen in this letter of my uncle Solomon, addressed to the widow Fleming, in his capacity as administrator; being the first of the triplet referred to in the title to my chapter: 
                
                  I. 
                  "MY DEAR MADAM:-Duty compels me to inform you that the claims of Mr. Quid upon the estate of your deceased kinsman, Truman Bodgers, Esq., of which I have already given you brief advisement, are very strong. He has shown to me, in connection with my legal adviser, papers which appear to establish, beyond doubt, the rights of his son, as heir at law. Deeply distressing as this event must be to both branches of the Bodgers family, I see no resource. I would advise you, therefore, to limit your expenses accordingly, as the usual annuity, which I believe you have been in the habit of receiving through the generosity of Mr. Bodgers, will now be cut off. I trust you will bear the reverse with resolution. 
                  "I have further to state, that in view of the strong nature of the claims of Mr. Quid, and in order to avoid the cost of a long suit, which might in the end prove profitless, I have entertained some propositions from Mr. Quid, with the view of effecting a compromise. He proposes to assign to you a life-lease of the old Bodgers homestead; in which event you might judiciously dispose of your present property; to Mrs. Fudge he proposes to make an assignment of a certain amount of stocks, reckoned equivalent to the above. 
                  "I have written to Squire Bivins upon the same subject; and as your consent will be necessary to such a settlement, I must beg of you an early reply. 
                  "N. B.-As there has been, I understand, some loose mention, in certain quarters, of the existence of a will, it is best to inform you that whatever engagements of the kind stated might be entered into would be conditional, and would not debar the prosecution of any claim, which might be based upon writings, in the nature of a will, subsequently brought to light." 
                  In contrast with this cool, man-of-business letter, I now offer a second, being addressed by Miss Kitty, our pleasant little cousin, who wears her heart wide open, to Miss Jemima Fudge, our poetic friend, of the Blimmer experience: 
                
                
                   
                  II. 
                  "MY DEAR JEMIMA:-I should be very ungrateful for all your kindness if I forgot to write you, as I promised I would, and to tell you all about my country home, which I am so glad to welcome again. 
                  "Well, what shall I say? You know how much I love my mother, and how much the old village of Newtown, about which I have talked so often, and very tiresomely, I dare say. The town I find just as it was, but there are people gone whom I used to see, and loved to see. Poor uncle Truman! that he should not march down to the old house to welcome me with his kind kiss seems very, very strange. And the house where he lived is closed and dismal. I have been tempted to step in and train the sweet briars, as I did before; but now I must not; and they say, besides, that it is to pass into strange hands. 
                  "There are others besides who are gone away, since I was last here; some to the city and some to California-so far off! But why do you care to know this, or anything, indeed, of our little, quiet place, so unlike as it is to your noisy and splendid streets? 
                  "I do believe I was awake all of my first night here, for the joy of my return; and the second, it was the same thing, because the house and the street were so quiet; and now, dear Jemima, it is the thought of your kindness, and that of those about you, which comes to my memory, and keeps me very wakeful. 
                  "But I have forgotten, after all, the greatest piece of news, which is that we are not to be rich, or to have any part of my uncle Bodgers' estate; and my mother has just now told me, in greater grief than I wish she felt, that our little annuity which came to her from my kind old uncle is now to be cut off. 
                  "And who do you think is to inherit my uncle's estate? Prepare for a grand surprise; it is Mr. Adolphus Quid; who (is it not very queer?), mamma says, is the heir at law; and stranger still, he has offered to us a life-lease of the old Bodgers house! So, I shall, perhaps, train the rose-briars again. 
                  "I know not what to make of it all. I know only that my poor mother is very sad; says we shall be very poor; I am sorry for that: but thanks to what I have learned with you, I can do something. I have planned it all. In a moment it flashed into my head. 
                  "I will have a little school in a corner of the old Bodgers' mansion; there are plenty of scholars I can find; and I will dress the school-room with flowers, and will be so independent; and if you will come and see us then, I will show you such a rosy-cheeked little company as will make your heart ache; and we will have such nice walks together in the maple-grove; and you and I will cheer mamma, and she shall forget that there has been any change! 
                  "Yet, is it not all very queer? And Mr. Quid, too, who showed me kind attentions (were they not kind?) the last winter! I don't know how I ought to feel in accepting such charity as this. But my mother's wish must be law with me in such a matter. 
                  "I half accuse myself now for having given such answer to our old friend, Mr. Blimmer, of the everlasting Blimmersville houses (pray, is the Blimmersville church built yet?") 
                  [Oh! Kitty, Kitty!] 
                  "For he is rich, they say, and might have given a helping hand to us all, had I been Mrs. --! But, trifling apart, have I not done well, Jemima, in listening to my own heart, when it said roundly, no! instead of listening to any jingle of money? I am sure I did. 
                   
                  "Our own old home, if the change is made of which I have told you, must be sold. This I do not like. It will be hard to see it in other hands; it will be hard to give up the walks we have trimmed, and the flowers we have planted so many, many years! And to think, besides, that we must accept the charity of a stranger, in gaining only the shelter of that kind uncle's roof, who, I am sure, would have done everything to cheer us and to sustain us in our own old home! 
                  "He never thought it would be so; I am certain he never did. We women know nothing of law, to be sure; but are not our hearts judges of what is just, as well as man's? And are not ties of kindred, and friendship, and love, stronger than--but shame on me! I have forgotten all my brave thought of the school, where the flowers shall hang each morning, with the dew fresh upon them; and where you, Jemima, shall come as my lady patroness: Pensez-y!
                   
                  "Mr. Blimmer (I tremble in naming him!) has been to Newtown: what can it be for? Certainly not for me. They say-you know what gossips country people are-that his visit was to a certain Miss Bivins, daughter of our "eminent" lawyer; certain it is that he called twice on her father, the Squire:" and, furthermore, he sat in his pew on Sunday, and Miss Mehitable wore a very conscious air. Who knows? I fear I must give him up. Ah! lack-a-day!" 
                  Just so the honest heart of girlhood makes sunbeams for itself, which centre within, and radiate all around. It seeks no morbid food to live upon, whether of romance or of crazed hopes; but trusting in Heaven's goodness, and seeing with chastened eye the beauty of honest endeavor, it finds its own joys in the glow of a willing spirit, and in the gush of an open heart. 
                  And now, to complete my triplet, I lay before my courteous reader another letter, being of city origin, from the hand of no less diverting a writer than my cousin, Miss Wilhelmina. I do not say that it is absolutely genuine; but I do say that the facts therein set forth are many of them to be relied upon, and that it offers an every way ingenuous picture of my pleasant cousin's thought and chitchat 
                  She addresses an acquaintance made last summer at Saratoga: 
                
                
                  III. 
                  
                      
                         
                            
                              "LETITIA, ma Chre LETITIA:-After our sudden parting last summer, so very provoking as it was, I have been pining away in the Avenue. I am well enough to be sure, and take a drive every day upon Broadway with mamma; and the Count is civil and attentive as usual, and the Spindles are as jealous as ever (which is some comfort), yet somehow it seems very dull. Papa has a terribly long face; more than all, when I ask him for money. Mamma says he is disturbed about his coal-stocks, and business, and all that. What a horrid thing business is! It made us come away from the Springs just as a good set was forming about mamma; and there's no hope, I fear, of getting it together again. How is it, dear Letitia, that people will be very kind, and chatty, and attentive at the Springs, and then never come near you in town? I should love to live at Saratoga, that is, provided the Count and you, and the rest were there, and the set was good. 
                              "Those hateful Spindles are just as proud as ever; although I am sure our house is better furnished than theirs; and our box at the opera was in twice as good a position. Never mind, as Brown says, 'our turn will come.' 
                              "Really, my Letitia, I don't know what to tell you about the Count. He is graceful and gentleman-like, and says such agreeable things. And in French, you've no idea, he is adorable! What a nice thing to be a Countess: there's not the slightest doubt about the title, for my French teacher has seen it often, he says, in the foreign papers. How it would spite the Spindles! 
                              "But then papa-there's that horrid business again-says he don't know about his property, and don't know yet what his profession is; just as if a Count could have a profession: how absurd! 
                              "I think mamma would like it; and then the clat of it all! Do you ask me if I love him? My Letitia, my heart knows not what to respond-ah, mon pauvre cur! I ask myself-indeed I do-'Wilhelmina, dear one, is it the title, the distinction, the grandeur; or is it the man, the heart, the disposition? Could you live with him in a cot by the water's side, with only a vegetable garden, and a pure rill of running water? or is it the thought of a claret coach, like mamma's, with a coronet on the panel that would make the Spindles die of envy?' 
                              "I know not what to say; sometimes I think it is one, sometimes I think it is the other. Tell me, dear Letitia, what you think it is? 
                              "Another nice piece of news I have got for you: Adolphe Quid, who you remember at the Springs, is to be rich! What do you think of that? There is no doubt of it: papa says so, and he rarely says so of anybody. I think the old gentleman would really encourage me to set snares for the millionaire. Adolphe is very well: but only think of Mrs. Quid! If he was only a Count! 
                              "Yet one might do worse, I must confess: for they say he is of good family: and he visits at the Spindles. There's some foreign connection with his name, and he speaks French adorably. 
                              "He was very attentive a winter ago to a pretty little country-cousin of ours, whom we introduced in one or two quiet places; but she, sad thing, is wretchedly poor, and I have just heard is to commence country school-keeping. What reverses in life, oh dear! Last winter visiting with mamma, and now school-keeping! 
                              
                                 "Adieu, ma chre.
                               
                            
                            
                              "P. S.-We have just had a letter from brother Washington, in Paris (I so wish you could see him). He is coming home, and says (although I haven't seen the letter) that a Countess somebody is coming home in the ship with him. Mamma is in transports: but papa looks very gloomy indeed. Won't the Spindles look sour? 
                              
                                 "Adieu, cherie; porte toi bien."
                               
                            
                         
                     
                   
                  A pleasant enough triplet of letters, showing, what I like to show, the inner thought of my pleasant kinsfolk who make up the Fudge portraitures; and the like of whom may be found in many another family, bearing a different name. 
                  To wit: a proud old man, scheming hard to keep full the coffers that sustain his pride, and who has lived so long in the light of money that all else seems dark. 
                  Next is an innocent young creature-I will not call her heroine-of country breeding, who looks the world fairly in the face, saying her prayers in humble fashion each night, and doing her duty, with humble zeal, by day-withal, wearing a heart wide open, and meeting storms with sunshine. 
                  Last, is a gay daughter of our world-wise metropolis, reared after the newest mode of the newest brown-stone houses, with whom fashion is godliness, and gaucherie, sin; and who counts weekly attendance upon the service of Dr. Muddleton (who reads his sermons in white) as all of religion that the gospel requires, or humanity demands. 
                  I, Tony, am cousin to them all; and therefore know no reason why I should not speak plainly. 
                
             
             
                
               XXVII. BIVINS VERSUS BLIMMER. 
                
                   
                     
                        "Even an honest dog will go out of his way for a good piece of meat."
                      
                     OLD PROVERB. 
                   
                
               MR. BLIMMER does not feel altogether easy in his mind. At his last encounter, at a street-crossing, with Jemima, that young lady frowned upon him sharply. But it is not the frown that disturbs Mr. Blimmer. 
               He has awkward recollections of a certain stout gentleman, carrying his arm in a sling, who was lost from the deck of a steamer, a great many months ago. To be sure, the court has declared that this old gentleman, and some fifty others, were burnt, or drowned, or crushed, quite accidentally; and that neither captain, nor engineers, nor company, are at all to be blamed for it. 
                
               Mr. Blimmer is therefore not disturbed upon that score; nor, indeed, is any one else at present. People (except those who wear deep mourning still, or who walk by twilight beside the tombs where rest the bodies of their drowned husbands or sons) think it all well enough; they have forgotten their sudden and eloquent indignation; the captain and engineers, for whom no names were too harsh, once, are driving their several trades: and that influential journal, which insisted "that an example should be made, by severe punishment," now enters such paragraphs as this: "We understand that the popular and gentlemanly Captain --, late of the Eclipse, has taken charge of the new and elegant steamer Empire. We need not say that every attention will be paid to the comfort of his passengers, and we insure them a quick run." 
               Public indignation is very smart in the beginning; but very mild in the end. The prosecution of murderous captains ends like the Washington Monuments, and the Cooper Statue. 
               It may well be, however, that Mr. Blimmer has a twinge of conscience, as he thinks of the important trust which the old gentleman, Mr. Bodgers, placed in his keeping; and, possibly, an additional twinge as his thought ran to the pretty face of the young girl, who, but for him, might have been rich. But straightway this twinge passes off, when he recalls the absolute and pointed manner in which Miss Kitty had refused to become Mrs. Blimmer. 
               It does not dispose to the exercise of amiable qualities, to receive such rebuff from a woman; least of all, when the rebuff is deserved, and when the approaches have been made under some false cover. A man is never so out of humor, as when he is out of humor with himself; and there is no such guard to temper, even in adversity, as the consciousness of an honest purpose. 
               The thought of Kitty, then, did not relieve the uneasiness of Mr. Blimmer: moreover, Blimmersville was not making such advances towards a city, as the proprietor could have desired. Numerous lots of land had indeed passed into the Quid name, under mortgage to Blimmer. But the advances were not large; and the residences, which the Quid family had proposed to erect on the property, were still very much in the condition of the Washington Monument, referred to above. 
               Mr. Blimmer, in his enterprising way, determined to drive over to Newtown, and investigate matters. He had not, indeed, any very clear idea of what he was to accomplish. Still, he was uneasy; uneasy about the Bodgers' will; uneasy about his private copy; uneasy about the Quid claims; uneasy about the Blimmersville payments. He was one of those men who work off uneasiness by restless activity. 
               He drove rapidly to Newtown. His horse received a great many vigorous cuts which the poor beast never deserved. Mr. Blimmer was pleased with the appearance of Newtown. It seemed to possess capabilities. He inquired the price of lots. He was struck particularly with the Bodgers property. "A nice property," he thought; and he emphasised that impression with a forcible cut upon his horse's flank. 
               Squire Bivins had been the agent and legal adviser of Mr. Bodgers. Mr. Blimmer determined to call upon Squire Bivins. Miss Mehitabel, hiding a portion of her nose behind two large bunches of lilac-blossoms, directed Mr. Blimmer to the Squire's office. He was, as usual, sitting over the crusted ashes of his stove, in his leathern-backed chair. He welcomed the new-comer in his accustomed amiable manner; patting his wig behind, giving his lower garments a hitch towards the boots, and placing a short twist of Virginia-leaf upon the table, in token of good-feeling. 
               "I am Mr. Blimmer, of Blimmersville-office, corner of Broadway and Broome street," said the visitor. 
                
               "Your most obedient, sir," said Bivins, hitching a chair in his direction. 
               "Nice village here, Squire." 
               "Well, pretty fair." 
               "Much sale of property?" pursued Blimmer. 
               "Considerable," said the Squire; observing his usual caution. 
               "Valuable estate, which old Mr. Bodgers left, wasn't it, Squire?" 
               "Tolerable," returned Mr. Bivins, eyeing very closely his visitor; and recalling now, for the first time, the name of Blimmer, as that of a fellow-passenger with his unfortunate townsman. He ventured to mention the circumstance; and thereupon received from Mr. Blimmer that gentleman's accustomed rapid narrative of that catastrophe, of his own humane efforts, especially in behalf of that unfortunate old gentleman, Mr. Bodgers. 
               Mr. Bivins' interest was keenly excited-in the visit. 
               "I think that you are an administrator on his estate?" said Mr. Blimmer 
               "I am." 
               "And what do you think of the claim brought forward by Mr. Quid, Squire?" 
               "If you ask," said Bivins, impressively, "my legal opinion'-- 
                
               There was a pause, in the midst of which, Mr. Blimmer drew from his pocket a small note, and slipped it upon the table of the administrator. The administrator, placing the tobacco-twist upon it, in such a way as to expose plainly its denomination, proceeded: 
               "If you ask my legal opinion, it is, that the above claim is very forcible." 
               "Oh!" said Blimmer. 
               "Very forcible, indeed," pursued Bivins; "so much so, that we have advised our clients to make terms with the claimants, and the estate is now under settlement, subject to those terms only." 
               "It's very strange," said Blimmer, "that the old gentleman made no will." 
               "Very," said Bivins, eyeing him sharply. 
               "Do you think he did make no will?" asked Blimmer. 
               "I think he did." 
               "You think he did?" 
               "Exactly," said Bivins. 
               "You think he did make no will?" repeated Mr. Blimmer, somewhat doubtfully. 
               "I think he did make a will?" said Bivins, wrenching emphatically a small piece from the end of his Virginia-twist. 
                
               "Oh!" said Blimmer; "and it was in favor of-Mr. Fudge, perhaps; Solomon?" 
               Mr. Bivins eyed his visitor in a very droll manner, and replied, in a quite unsatisfactory tone of voice, "Perhaps so, Mr. Blimmer." 
               "I'll tell you what, Bivins," said the proprietor of Blimmersville, drawing up his chair, and patting his host in a familiar manner upon the knee, "we may as well come to business at once. The long and short of the matter is this: Quid has bought rather largely in my lots at Blimmersville; and his pay depends very much upon his holding possession of the Bodgers property. Now I want to know" (and the man of business placed a note of much larger amount than the first upon the Squire's table) "what are the chances of his being ousted, and what ground there is for believing that, by-and-by, some other party will trump up a will?" 
               "That's what I call to the p'int," said Bivins, regaling himself with a view of the pleasant-looking bank-note; and thereupon, he related to the attentive Mr. Blimmer all that he knew of the claim of Mr. Quid, and of the will in favor of Miss Fleming, which he had himself drawn up in behalf of the late Mr. Bodgers; which will, however, to the best of his knowledge, had never been signed. He further stated that he had already communicated these facts to Mr. Quid himself. 
               "You know the will was not signed?" said Mr. Blimmer, inquiringly. 
               "I think it was never signed," returned Mr. Bivins. 
               "Mr. Bodgers was in the habit of doing such business at your office, I believe, Mr. Bivins?" said the Blimmersville proprietor. 
               Mr. Bivins assented. 
               "And had you no clerk, no assistant, 'Squire, who might possibly have executed the will for Mr. Bodgers, in your absence?" 
               "I did have Harry Flint in my office about that time," said Bivins, "to be sure; but the old gentleman would hardly have arranged such a matter with Harry." 
               "And was Harry a young man likely to be interested in favor of Miss Fleming, Squire?" continued Blimmer. 
               "Well, I did think Harry was one time tender upon Kitty; but he went off suddenly to California; likely enough, Kitty gave him the mitten." 
               "Oh!" said Blimmer; and the proprietor did certainly manifest signs of embarrassment; which were not lost upon the administrator. 
               Mr. Blimmer has thus gained all the information that he desired; judging from his own state of feeling, he does not think that Mr. Harry Flint will come back from California to interest himself in behalf of Miss Kitty. He feels, therefore, comparatively safe on that score. But as he drives back to town, he revolves a pleasant scheme for quickening the payments of Mr. Quid. It strikes him as a highly-ingenious scheme; and no sooner does he reach the office of the Blimmersville property, than he puts it in effect. 
               He addresses a note to Mr. Quid in this manner: 
               
                  "Mr. Blimmer's compliments to Mr. Quid, and begs to advise him that the instalments now due on lots Numbers seventeen, eighteen, nineteen, twenty, twenty-one, etc., in the town of Blimmersville, are still unpaid: he also begs to advise Mr. Quid (hoping he will not take offence) of his (Blimmer's) natural reluctance to place in the hands of so entire a stranger the original document intrusted to him by a certain deceased party; he believes, however, that the writing which he had the honor to place in Mr. Quid's hands, was a true copy of the same; and, in the event of pending negotiations being happily matured, he (Blimmer) would have no objection to add to it the original instrument.
                  "Office of the Town of Blimmersville, Broadway.
                  
                  "N. B.-Mr. Blimmer takes the liberty of reminding Mr. Quid, in case he should have inadvertently mislaid the writing previously handed to him, that another copy could be prepared without delay."
                
               "There's a quid for him," said Blimmer; and he put his pen back in the stand, with a chuckle which meant plainly: "Well done, Mr. Blimmer!" 
               Mr. Bivins, too, sitting over his crusted ashes, and stroking his wig consequentially, reflected long upon his interview with the proprietor of Blimmersville; and putting his various queries together, he thought within himself: "Blimmer is a man to be watched!" 
               And Squire Bivins, under those silver-bowed spectacles, wears a very keen pair of eyes. 
             
             
                
               XXVIII. WASH FUDGE RUNS EXTREME DANGER. 
                
                   
                     
                        "He that diggeth a pit shall fall into it; and whoso breaketh an hedge, a serpent shall bite him."
                      
                     ECCLESIASTES x. 8. 
                   
                
               I LEFT my cousin Wash in an embarrassing position. It certainly can be no agreeable thing for a young man of even stronger nerve than my cousin Wash to be discovered in furtive travel with the wife of another individual. And surely, such discovery must be particularly disagreeable, when, as in the present instance, the aggrieved party is an expert swordsman, and an ardent lover of pistol-practice. 
               By what means Colonel Duprez had informed himself of the movements of the parties, and stolen a march upon the Countess and her benevolent companion, it is not necessary here to state. The Colonel nel had been grossly offended; his manner gave evidence of this. He was calm, however; and having coolly turned the key in the door-lock, he drew a pistol from a side-pocket, and directing it towards Master Fudge, urged him to make such confessions as he had to make, at once.
                
               The Countess in terror rushed before her husband; and Washington, growing pale, drew towards the bell-rope. The Countess observed this movement, and in the midst of her distress, retained her usual prudence. She entreated him not to alarm the house: her character and his own were at stake. She implored the Colonel to forbear his rage, and to listen to reason. 
               The Colonel, however, so far from abating his indignation, only multiplied his imprecations, and swore he would have the blood of his betrayer before he left the room. 
               Washington seemed not disposed to increase the indignation of the injured man by any bravado, or indeed by remarks of any kind. His hopes all lay in the judicious management of the Countess. 
               "Villain," said the Colonel, in a voice of thunder, "what have you to say for yourself?" 
               I am sorry to report that Wash received the inquiry with more meekness than was altogether becoming under the circumstances. He intimated that the Countess would explain. 
               "Oh! ho!" said the Colonel, very distrustfully, "it is the Countess, is it; a pretty story she will tell! Well, madame" (addressing the unfortunate lady, just now recovering from a short fit of hysterics), "what, pray, have you to say, why I should not put a bullet through the heart of this precious young villain, or hand him over to the police?" 
               "Ah! rash man!" said the afflicted Countess, "wretched, unhappy woman that I am!" and yielded again to her agonized feelings. 
               "So," said the Colonel, "is this all?" and he directed his pistol again very deliberately at the trembling Wash. 
               "For God's sake, madame," said Wash, "do tell the Colonel how it all happened; and that I never had a thought of"-- 
               "Ah!" interrupted the Colonel, with a frightful leer at his victim, "you may stop! A pleasant little trip you had marked out for yourselves; something wider than a turn in the Bois de Boulogne! How is it, Madame la Comtesse?" 
               The Countess had recovered sufficiently to begin her story. She related how, by accident she had discovered her kinship with the family of Mr. Fudge. 
                
               "Parbleu!" said the Colonel; but in a way expressing considerable suspicion. 
               The Countess went on to mention the hopes that had been raised of recovering some portion of the estates of her maternal ancestry. She suggested that the assistance of Washington, which had been most generously offered to her, would be essential in a strange country. She had feared the impetuosity and warmth of the Colonel's temperament; and had rashly undertaken the journey without his knowledge or consent. She did hope that he would forgive such a lapse from duty, and yield to a short separation, from which so much was to be hoped. 
               "Very good, madame," said the Colonel, "elle est trs belle, I'histoire que vous me contez l, but did it ever occur to your precious cousin to leave some guarantee with your family on this side the water, that he was acting in good faith, and was not throwing the foulest suspicion of dishonor upon a nearer member of your family, madame, who has the honor to call himself, par exemple, le Colonel Duprez? Parbleu!" 
               The mention of a guarantee encouraged Wash; he recalled a previous escape from very embarrassing circumstances; hope might lie open for him now in the same direction. It is true his funds were at the very lowest ebb; and Solomon had positively refused to pay any further drafts upon him. But the present was a case of life and death; even if he escaped the personal anger of the Colonel, the best he could hope for was a French prison, for an indefinite period of time, except matters were now arranged by the Countess. 
               He waited with more composure the issue of events. The Colonel played nervously with the lock of his pistol. 
               "Cruel man!" said the Guerlin, "will nothing satisfy you?" 
               "Mais oui," returned the Colonel, "it will satisfy me to have a quiet shot at the young Fudge yonder, at twenty paces; after which, Madame la Comtesse, we will return to our Paris mnage." 
               Wash grew alarmed again. 
               The Countess came to his relief. 
               "And the estate; was it all to be given up?" 
               "Mon Dieu!" said the Colonel, carelessly; "is it large?" 
               "Three hundred thousand francs." 
               "Trs bien; and your cousin Fudge thinks it a secure thing?" 
               Wash, at this stage, did not venture to express any distrust. 
               "And his assistance will be necessary?" 
               There could be no doubt of that. 
                
               "Very good. Mr. Fudge will not object, then, to advance a certain sum to secure against any losses on your part, by so long a voyage; and an additional gage to me personally, that he is acting in good faith, and not with any dishonorable intent. You perceive, madame, that I am reasonable. Parbleu!" 
               The Countess turned to Wash: "Cher Wash, what is to be done?" 
               The Colonel clicked the pistol-lock in a rather sportive manner. The Countess and her young cousin consulted together. The Colonel recommended rapid decision. For his own part, he was quite indifferent. He should feel reluctant to inform against Mr. Fudge for his extraordinary conduct; he should prefer to settle affairs with him en homme d'honneur. As for the estate across the water, if, in view of the handsome sum to be realized, Mr. Fudge was disposed to place in his hands twenty thousand francs, he would consent to their leave. Madame la Comtesse could refund such advance, upon the settlement of the estate. 
               Wash grew pale again; the Guerlin exclaimed against the Colonel's extravagant demand. But that gentleman was very cool; he seated himself by the door, and amused himself as before, with trying the force of his very effective-looking pistol-lock. 
                
               There was even a doubt in the mind of Wash, if his Paris banker would cash at present so large a draft. 
               The Colonel suggested that this was a matter easily determined by inquiry. It was found, in fact, that the banker, or his agents, did not object. Washington met the exigency with more dignity than he had met the previous suggestions of Colonel Duprez. Indeed, he drew upon Mr. Solomon Fudge for twenty thousand francs, with a firm hand. 
               It is not my opinion, however, that it was a transaction upon which he reflected with great pleasure. It did occur to him that he was doing a wrong to one to whom he was very largely indebted. However, Mr. Solomon Fudge, or Mrs. Phbe Fudge, would, he felt sure, prefer an annoyance of this kind, to the intelligence that he was lodged in a French prison-house, or stretched upon the tables of la morgue, with a heart riddled by a pistol-shot of Colonel Duprez. 
               He consoled himself, then, with the reflection that he had chosen the least of the evils which hedged him in; without observing (it may be remarked) that he had marched of his own will, and in a very straight line, into the toils which beset him. 
               It is a very gratifying thing to be "a man of the world" early; particularly in such a city as Paris, where the aspirants to the fore-mentioned attainment are very numerous. But it is my opinion, that it costs dear; not to the pocket only, but to everything else that a sound-minded man likes to carry about with him. 
               Paris is, to be sure, a delightful place; but a man may stay too long there-more especially, if he has no more definite occupation than to amuse himself. It seems a good spot to refine metal which is tough by nature; but what is tender, is apt to waste there. The fires in which steel is tempered, would consume a pewter vessel utterly. 
               A man should think well, before he sends a son, in whom he has any high hopes, to the metropolis of Europe. It may accomplish him, to be sure; and it may prove his damnation. Most of all, is the place dangerous for those who aim merely at a position in the boudoir-talk of the day, and who would peril every manlier faculty for a triumph in those things which will surprise by their license. These, to be sure, will give elegant scandal in our cities, and a day's boast; but they do not last. A faith in to-morrow, is better than a blaze to-day. 
               The elegant Wash Fudge, and the accomplished Countess de Guerlin, sailed together for New-York. The Colonel Duprez waved them an adieu. I am persuaded that he did it in a cordial manner. 
             
             
                
               XXIX. KITTY IN THE COUNTRY. 
                
                   
                     
                        "What are benefits? what is constancy, or merit? One curl of a girl's ringlet, one hair of a whisker (one good chance for money), will turn the scale against them all in a minute."
                      
                     VANITY FAIR. 
                   
                
               SUNSHINE is upon the old Bodgers house, of Newtown; healthful, gay, cheery sunshine. The air of mourning that lay upon the dead man's home is gone. The closed blinds are flung wide open. The front gates, where the old gardener had driven fastenings, above the latch, are ajar half the day. The paths where the Squire, in his brown surtout, walked back and forth are newly trimmed; and the sturdy hollyhocks are all alive with bees and blossoms. The vines that clamber over the porch are trimmed as they were never trimmed before; and the humming-birds which once darted around the trumpet-flowers fearlessly, are frightened away by a wee chorus of voices which comes from the little parlor of the late Squire Bodgers. 
               Kitty Fleming, with a pretty look of importance, directs the chorus. She plays the mistress charmingly. Mrs. Fleming and the housekeeper, after an amiable womanly quarrel, have come to terms. I doubt, however, if they continue to agree. Two housekeepers in the same house, never did agree; and it is my opinion that they never will. 
               Indeed, Mrs. Dyke (for that was the housekeeper's name) was not the person to live without a brush with anybody; least of all, with a rival. She had grown old, and bent over, in the Bodgers service. There was not a boy of any butcher's or baker's shop in Newtown, but had some time felt her pitiless, sharp tongue. The old Squire himself had winced under it, often. I think he would have changed his housekeeper-if he had dared. I think he would have forbidden the periodic house-cleaning of Mrs. Dyke-if he had dared. I think he would have rooted up some of her patches of thyme, and chamomile, and sage, and sweet balm, in the garden-if he had dared. I think he would have dined on pot-luck less often-if he had dared. 
               Your town housekeeper is altogether a different body; but your notable, weazen-faced, country housekeeper, who keeps bags of herbs in the garret ret, and a pet cat, and dresses in bombazine, and is for ever sweeping and dusting, and has money in the bank, and a taste for garlic, is a very terrible creature. 
               Mrs. Dyke retained her little back-room in the Bodgers house, by a kind of prescriptive right. To remove Mrs. Dyke would have been as strange and unprecedented, as to remove the front porch, or the garden-fence. Sometimes her sharp tongue is heard berating the little flock of Miss Kitty, for tracking the clean hall with their muddied feet; and sometimes she falls into serious altercation with meek Mrs. Fleming, who has expressed a wish for veal cutlets, when she, the housekeeper, has decided upon a re-hash of yesterday's beef. 
               Kitty, however, like the bit of sunshine that she is, brightens the clouded faces of the older ones; and by a compromise in the dinner-tactics, and a generous yielding to an occasional dish of the old lady's chamomile tea, she preserves peace in the household. 
               Miss Jemima, too, makes a visit to Newtown, and is delighted with the ruddy faces of the little girls who flock at morning to the old Bodgers parlor; and she is charmed with the walks in the wood which Kitty had written of; and they gather flowers together; and Jemima seems to grow young again-forgetting Blimmer and making woodland sonnets, and writing home to Bridget a letter full of pastoral narrative, and of that "dear, good, old lady, Mrs. Fleming." 
               There is a bright-eyed scholar among those who come every morning between the hollyhock blossoms that skirt the front path to the Bodgers door, to whom Kitty's heart cleaves more lovingly (if she has any partialities) than to the rest. Her name is Bessie Flint. It may be because she is an orphan, and so has few to care for her: it may be that she is so gentle, and her face so fair and winning: it may be that her name recalls pleasant memories to her, of the companions of her own school age: in short, there may be many reasons, and doubtless are, why Kitty seems nearer to Bessie Flint than to others who come and go, every day, between the hollyhock blossoms. 
               Among other matters, this same dimple-cheeked Bessie is learning the management of a pen; and as she makes advances, day after day, she undertakes childish letters to a certain brother of hers, who is far away across seas. And naturally enough, the teacher, so kind in other things, will help forward Bessie in her letter; rounding the capitals, and putting in stops and semi-colons, and half-inclined to cross out altogether a period in which the prattling sister tells what mistress she has, and how she is "ever so kind." 
               Through the same pleasant medium, Kitty learns what sickness has fallen upon Harry Flint; and she shares with a tender sympathy, the childish solicitude that hangs over the sister's face when she speaks of it. But to the old aunt, who stands in the place of a mother to Bessie, she never shows this; but asks, only in the reserved and quiet way in which any friend might ask, after the fortunes of her absent townsman. 
               Besides, it is noised in the village (and I fear Mrs. Fleming may have kept the noise astir) that Kitty's winter in the town was a winter of conquest; and there are hints about the young Mr. Quid, who has made such a kind disposal of the old Bodgers mansion; and people mention him slily to Kitty, as if-something were brewing. And Mrs. Fleming looks very conscious when his name is mentioned; indulging her motherly pride thereby, to the great vexation of Kitty herself. 
               I think Mrs. Fleming was rash and unreasonable in her anticipations. The Quids may have done her a kindness in giving her the rental of the old Bodgers house; they, doubtless, had their own reasons for conciliating the relatives of the deceased Squire. It is certain that they slipped quietly and modestly into enjoyment of the estate, to the great advantage of their social position in town. Adolphe was often in the Spindle pew of Dr. Muddleton's church. Mrs. Fudge's eyes and heart were often turned that way. I may say the same of Wilhelmina; notwithstanding the continued earnestness of the Count Salle. Adolphe drove a very fast trotter, called Mary Taylor, and was a star at matines. He might be said to occupy a position that allowed him to look down upon the Fudges: he might be said, by his partial friends, to occupy almost the same level with the Pinkertons. I do not think the Pinkertons would allow it; still, they received him. Arabella Spindle, who was eight-and-twenty, rode with him upon the Avenue; and worked "Adolphe" in floss silk upon a bit of paste-board: it was a book-mark: the book-mark became Mr. Quid's. 
               Under these circumstances, it is not to be supposed that the newly-rich and admired young gentleman should bestow many thoughts upon such country-people as the Flemings. He certainly did not; and he had been known to make such wanton mention of the ruddy color in Kitty's face, as would have terribly shocked the old lady, her mamma, and, I am sure, brought an indignant tear into the eye of Miss Kitty herself. 
               Circumstances, however, made a sudden change in this disposition of affairs. I have already mentioned a communication extended by the diplomatic Mr. Blimmer towards the complacent Quid. I need hardly say that this communication was the source of great uneasiness to the gentleman to whom it was addressed. 
               The first thought, indeed, of Mr. Quid had taken a singularly shrewd direction, and he indulged the belief that Mr. Blimmer was "playing gammon," in order to quicken his payments on the Blimmersville land account. In short, he did not believe that Blimmer was honest in his statement-that he had merely consigned to him a copy, and not the will itself. 
               To make himself sure, he made some investigations respecting the hand-writing of the late Mr. Bodgers; he even, in virtue of possessing himself of some letters of the deceased gentleman, made the comparison; it was not favorable; there certainly seemed to be a difference: the assertion of Mr. Blimmer appeared plausible: there was too much reason to believe that the instrument he held in his keeping was indeed a copy, and a copy only, of the real Bodgers will. 
               In view of the disparity of the signatures, it seemed to him the most natural thing in the world, that the cautious Mr. Blimmer should have acted as he professed to have done. To quarrel with him would be dangerous. Some new scheme must be set on foot. That scheme speedily suggested itself to the ambitious mind of Mr. Quid. It was a capital one; and if effective, would utterly over-reach the designing Blimmer. 
               Young Mr. Quid is called into consultation. The father explains to him with parental anxiety the difficulties of their position, and the deceit practised upon them by the proprietor of the Blimmersville estates. 
               "There is one way," pursued the old gentleman, "of getting out of the scrape, Adolphus." 
               Adolphus listens eagerly. 
               "It depends upon you, Adolphus." 
               Adolphus looks surprised. 
               "My son, you must marry Kitty Fleming!" and the old gentleman speaks (as fathers are apt to speak in such circumstances) as if the self-denial involved in the sacrifice would be altogether on the son's part. A jury of the lady-admirers of the expectant Adolphus, would, I am sure have entertained the same opinion. 
               Adolphus said-what I shall not write down. 
               "But she is pretty," urged the old gentleman. 
               "Countrified!" said Adolphus; "no style!" 
                
               "Yet you paid her some attentions," said the old gentleman. 
               "Of course," said Adolphus; "just the piece; simple, innocent; but Lord!-Mrs. Adolphus Quid!" 
               And the young man walked up and down in an excited state. Meantime, the old gentleman unrolled the title-deeds, and made a quiet show of the bonds and mortgages: a very charming array, indeed. 
               The result was, the young man thought better of the matter: he said he would marry her. 
               That very day, the fast trotter was driven to Newtown; that very evening, a brilliant town bouquet adorned the best vase in Mrs. Fleming's little stock of porcelain. The old lady was charmed, delighted; she knew how it would be: trust her in such matters! Such disinterestedness! such generosity! 
               And not only that day, but very often thereafter, the ostler of the Newtown inn had the grooming of the fast Mary Taylor. And Mehitable Bivins looked more sourly than ever across the country-church; and the city-friends wondered where Adolphe could go so often, and feared he might be given to racing, and dinners at Snediker's. 
               Kitty herself, with her kind heart easily warmed into gratitude, schools herself to think well of one who has given her old mother a home, and whom her old mother likes. It may be, too, that her thought wanders somewhat in school-hours to the elegant gentleman, whom all the little scholars admire so much; it may be that a certain pride, which belongs in a measure to all of us, is lighted up with the thought of drawing away from the town, and the belles of the town, one who is caressed and fted (as she learns through Jemima's letters) by the "very best people." 
               And, judging in her innocent way (the very innocence that prompted young Quid's agreeable flirtation), she cannot mistake his views in these frequent visits, and in these renewed cadeaux of flowers. Or, if she were unsuspicious, is not the doting old mother there at her elbow to put her right, and to tell her every day how proud she is of her conquest? 
               It is not strange, then, that Kitty falls to thinking in the twilight hours-if he would be always kind, and gentle, and good to her good mamma; and then comes up that more serious question, whether she does really, truly, honestly love him, as a wife should love a husband? 
               And then, she says (for he has not spoken yet of marriage), "How silly! who knows what he means, or if he means it? who knows if"- 
                
               In short she must not think of it; she will not think of it; or, if she does, she does not know as yet what to think. Perhaps she might; perhaps she might not. Who knows? not she, as yet: nor I. 
               The whole village talk of the matter: little Bessie sees it with her girl's eyes, and writes, all girlishly, to her good brother (just picking up from his western fever), how Miss Kitty "is to marry an elegant young man; and so rich, too; and she, for her part is glad of it; for Kitty deserves it all; and such elegant flowers as the girls see in the old house; and how she is not made too proud by it, but loves them all as much as ever. 
               "I wish you would come back to the wedding, Harry; and then you would be grooms-man, perhaps." 
               Old Mrs. Dyke, alone of all the household, sneers at young Mr. Quid; the truth is, such old ladies are very tenacious of their dignity, and have no idea of being treated as servants; besides which, Mr. Quid has laughed obstreperously at the mention of her chamomile tea. Indeed, she calls him, in one of her periodic quarrels with Mrs. Fleming, a "city dandy;" whereat the widow reddens, and retorts upon the housekeeper keenly. Mrs. Dyke grows more inflamed, and says he has no more right to the Bodgers' property than she has herself; and, what's more, she can prove it." 
               What can Mrs. Dyke mean? 
             
             
                
               XXX. EVENTS OF IMPORTANCE TAKE PLACE. 
                
                   
                     
                        "The world is apt to stick close to those who have lived and got wealth there."
                      
                     WILLIAM PENN. 
                   
                
                
                   
                     
                        "If thy estate be good, match near home, and at leisure; if weak, far off, and quickly."
                      
                     LORD BURLEIGH. 
                   
                
               ON a certain fine morning, not long after the events last spoken of, there arrived at the port of New York, per steamer, our young cousin, Mr. Washington Fudge, accompanied by the so-called Countess de Guerlin. 
               The two names were in close juxtaposition in the paper which announced their arrival. This fact excited not a little invidious remark. Mrs. Solomon received her son in a rapturous manner: Wilhelmina even was warmed for the time with a little natural expression of feeling. My uncle Solomon was calm, but extended a hearty welcome. I cannot say that he was altogether satisfied with the jaunty Parisian air of my cousin Wash, or that he did not after bed-time, hint his misgivings to Phbe, and express a fear lest he might not show a good aptitude for business. He more than suspected, indeed, that he had no inclination that way. 
               My aunt Phbe thought that he had; and what was more, that he had shown it. And thereupon she commented in her rapid manner upon the generous and energetic way in which Washington had seconded the undoubted claims of their new cousin, the Countess. 
               "O Lord!" said Solomon. 
               My aunt Phbe was indignant to find how little pride Mr. Fudge was disposed to show in Washington; and, in her indignation, she acquitted herself of a little commission which she had undertaken on the part of the son; which was, to break quietly to the old gentleman the late difficulty, by which the dear boy had been compelled to make a new and considerable draft upon his father. 
               "Yes, he understands making drafts," said Solomon. 
               "And large ones, too," said Phbe, tartly. 
               "How much is it now?" said Solomon. 
               "Four thousand dollars," said Phbe. 
                
               "Four thousand dollars!" said the old gentleman, in amazement. 
               I think the old lady was softened by his anxious tone. "Remember," said she, "Soly, that it was a matter of life and death with him." 
               "Life and fiddlesticks," said Solomon. 
               "For shame, Mr. Fudge!" 
               "For shame, Mrs. Fudge," retorted Solomon, angrily. "Have you not been encouraging the boy in all sorts of foppery, recommending Parisian society, till he comes back, good for nothing, with a strange woman at his heels, on whose account he has been drawing on me for a matter of five thousand dollars! A devilish pretty society that is, madame! I suppose it will be the same thing with Miss Wilhe and her 'society.' In my opinion, she had much better be looking out for a sensible husband, who can support her with his business, than to be coquetting with your Spindles and Counts." 
               "Shame on you, Mr. Fudge!" said Phbe again. 
               "Yes, I know," said Solomon, "and I'm a vulgar man, and all that, I suppose; but let me tell you, madame, if you mean to get any profit out of your 'position,' as you call it, you must do it soon; for unless things take a turn within a month, you and I, Phbe, must--budge!" 
               "Budge, Solomon?" 
                
               "Budge! quit! give up the Avenue, and the house, and the coach, and society!" 
               There was an earnestness in the old gentleman's tone, which gave assurance of his truth; and I think Mrs. Fudge was subdued into one of those conjugal kisses which, at rare intervals in her life, brought to mind the old and very brief days of their sentiment. 
               But the hint of my uncle Solomon in regard to the improvement of her present "position" was not lost upon Mrs. Fudge. She took an early occasion of calling upon the Countess de Guerlin. She found her, as might have been expected, a brilliant and most engaging woman. In consort with Wilhelmina, she compared her with Mrs. Pinkerton and Mrs. Spindle, who both lost sensibly by the contrast. 
               These ladies, on the other hand, getting wind of the arrival of the Countess, regretted that she should have fallen into the hands of "so very vulgar people," and should carry away such "very false impressions of American society." 
               The same remarks are usual with respect to every foreigner of title of whom I ever had the honor to hear. There never was one, I think, who, in the opinion of all, saw the "very cream" of society. My own opinion is, however, that the cream of American society is mostly milk; by which I mean that what there is good in it is pretty evenly distributed throughout the mass, and is quite as apt to be found floating midway, as in the froth that swims at the top. 
               The Countess, notwithstanding the hands she was in, was sought after. Mrs. Fudge and Wilhelmina were sought after at the same time. Mrs. Fudge, of course, determined upon giving her a grand party. Uncle Solomon protested, insisting that there might be some flaw in the woman's character; he did think it looked oddly to take such a trip, even in the company of his son. Madame Fudge insisted (for Washington had informed her) that it was the French way. 
               "Then all I have to say is, madame," said Solomon, tartly, "it's a d--d odd way!" 
               Washington figured grandly at the party; he introduced a new dance with variations, which he had learned at the Ranelagh. The Pinkertons were present, and were affable with the Countess; they even encouraged Washington to converse with them. Jemima was invited, as being a good French scholar; and she subsequently arranged a conversazione for the Countess, at her mother's small house. The Countess was not proud, and appeared amiable at the conversazione, to the great delight of Bridget and of the old lady, her mother. 
                
               Mrs. Fudge had not forgotten the cruel hint of Solomon, about the improvement of their present position. She had held a private conversation with Wilhelmina on the subject, in the course of which she had made known the embarrassed position of her father's affairs; she had urged that young lady to make hay while the sun was shining-in other words, to carry young Spindle, if it were possible, by a coup de main.
                
               Wilhelmina devoted herself for the greater part of the evening to the execution of this task; she made extraordinary conversational ventures; but, failing in the end, revenged herself by a spirited flirtation with the Count Salle, who was there, brilliant as ever; and-it was remarked afterwards-particularly coy of advances towards the Countess. He met the approaches of Wilhelmina with unusual readiness and spirit. Serious people may even have observed certain improprieties in her conduct. It was to be remembered, however, that the Count was a very old friend-very. 
               It must have been about ten o'clock on the following day that Mr. Solomon Fudge and his wife sat at breakfast over a broiled chicken, in the basement-room of their Avenue house. Neither son nor daughter had as yet appeared. Late breakfast hours were genteel, and Mrs. Fudge rather liked late hours. The old people were consulting, in a sulky humor, upon the events of yesterday, when the maid suddenly came in and announced, in a frightened way, that Miss Wilhelmina was not in her room, and had not slept in her bed, and was nowhere to be found. 
               Mrs. Fudge, with an exclamation of wonder, looked over towards her husband; and the old gentleman growing pale, looked gloomily back into the face of his wife. There was not much in the countenance of either to give consolation, or to clear up the mystery. 
               The family was alarmed, and the house searched throughout. Not the slightest trace could be found of the missing young lady. Circumstances, how ever, seemed to point to the Count Salle as a party to this family bereavement. Some of the servants had seen her whispering to the Count at a very late hour; one even had observed her in his company upon the porch of the street door. 
               Young Wash, made heroic by his recent Paris experience, swore that he would shoot the Count, and ordered a Colt's pistol to be bought for that purpose. He however yielded to the hysterical entreaties of Mrs. Fudge, and countermanded the order. 
               My uncle Solomon wore an air of more calmness than might have been expected; he seemed to regard the matter as a judgment upon Phbe. I think he may have hinted as much; whereupon Mrs. Fudge renewed her hysterics to such a degree that the family physician was called in. 
               For my own part, I think it was an event-I speak of the elopement-that might have been looked for. I think the progress of her education had encouraged a hope of some such brilliant dnoment. I think it was only the dashing way in which my cousin Wilhelmina undertook to illustrate her advance upon elegant life. 
               And should it appear that the Count has given the affair a creditable tone, by a recognition of the marriage ceremony, I am by no means prepared to say that the event would be a disagreeable one to my aunt Phbe. 
               Indeed, I think quite the contrary. 
             
             
                
               XXXI. GUERLIN VERSUS QUID. 
                
                   
                     
                        "A liar begins with making falsehood appear like truth, and ends with making truth itself appear like falsehood."
                      
                     SHENSTONE. 
                   
                
               THE GUERLIN, meantime, pushes her claims with vigor. She has secured a very proper and business-like attorney. His name is Brazitt. He is well known about town for a somewhat shabby dress of black, and for the great fervor and success with which he pushes on a dinner, a suit, or an election. He is a man who knows the people "about the courts;" who has always a friend in the newspaper service; who is posted up in the Cuban business; who is very sly; who doesn't want office for himself, but who gets offices for other people. 
               He doesn't live showily, but receives large fees; he is a capital lobby-member, and is frequently at Albany during a session-making a judicions distribution of champagne during a dinner. He occasionally finds his way to the inner rooms of editors; sometimes putting his hand to an article, for which he receives no pay. In short, he is a progressive, energetic, well-informed, rapid, cautious, social, selfmade, successful man. 
               There is a Mrs. Brazitt; this, however, does not concern the Fudges; nor-very much-the attorney. 
               Mr. Brazitt not only takes up the cause of the Guerlin, which bids fair to become a conspicuous one, but he befriends her. A romantic sketch of her life, and trials, and expectations, suddenly appears, one Saturday morning, in the Herald. The affair is talked of. A pictorial paper has gained permission (from Brazitt) to engrave a wood-cut likeness of the Countess. The Pinkertons, it is understood, have asked her to pass a day at their "fine place" in the country. The Spindles arrange a tableau-vivant, in the course of which an episode in the life of the Countess is represented, and the Countess weeps. 
               Sympathy takes a strong flow in her favor: "nice people" speak harshly of young Quid. It appears (from newspaper paragraphs) that the Countess has the best cause in the world. A kind of Kossuth admiration possesses people. It is needless to say that Mr. Brazitt is a man who admires and encourages this feeling. 
               He has no special admiration for titles, it is true; he doesn't care for titles a straw: he dislikes titles: but was it the poor lady's fault? She came from a country where such titles were respectable; he might even say, desirable. Was he to shut his doors upon her? 
               She had lived a life of hardships-of great adventure; she had found accidentally, in a distinguished young townsman (Mrs. Fudge bought thirteen copies of the newspaper in which this mention occurred), a friend and a relative; she discovered through him traces of her mother's family; she found her ties upon society multiplied; she had come to claim and to enjoy her own. 
               Mr. Quid, indeed, was not a little troubled by the spirited manner in which the new claim was brought forward. Upon careful examination, he found considerable difficulty in securing proof of his having married his own wife! It is always an awkward thing to be driven to the search of such proof; it is still more awkward-not to find it. 
               The papers of the Countess were certainly of a strong character; there was abundant evidence to show that her parent, if not the widow of the unfortunate tunate elder branch of the Bodgers, was certainly very intimately allied with that widow. The Countess, moreover, was possessed of abundance of tender letters, from the Monsieur de Guerlin, who had subsequently married the widow, in which that kind-hearted gentleman speaks pathetically of the lasting affection he entertains for her mother, and of his firm determination to regard her child as his own. 
               In short, it is alleged, on the part of the vigorous adviser of the Countess, that the late Mrs. Quid was nothing more than the daughter of the nurse or femme de chambre of the proper Bodgers widow; who, in virtue of this connection, became possessed of the family secrets, letters, etc., and finally assumed the name of her lady-patroness. 
               This representation was so well based as to occasion, as I have already said, infinite annoyance to Mr. Quid: and even if the Guerlin claim did not prove altogether sound, it certainly appeared to the discerning eye of Mr. Brazitt to possess sufficient force and plausibility to warrant prosecution; and to insure the levy of some round sum, in way of compromise, from the timorous defendant. 
               Mr. Quid, however, was not idle. His son's character in the fashionable world was at stake; there were hints of his having been already blackballed in an up-town club, by reason of the low and disagreeable suspicions cast upon his parentage. Mr. Quid senior had a friend in Paris, who has already been once or twice brought to notice. I allude to Mr. Jenkins, the father of Miss Jenkins, who had carried his fortune and his daughter to the French capital, in the hope of achieving an agreeable social eminence. A full purse, a pretty daughter, frequent suppers, with a passable knowledge of French, are, I am told, pretty sure to secure the companionship of a considerable bevy of middleaged Parisian gentlemen, well-informed, single, and "distinguished." 
               To Mr. Jenkins, Mr. Quid made application; setting forth the embarrassments of his position; directing him to the proper quarter to secure evidences of his marriage, to be forwarded per mail; and begging him further to give such information as could be relied upon in regard to the character and history of a certain Countess de Guerlin, one time of the Rue de Helder, and more recently embarked with Mr. Washington Fudge, at the port of Havre, en route for New York. 
               Nor is this the only precautionary measure of Mr. Quid. He feels that the question of parentage of stray European ladies at the German spas and elsewhere, is a very delicate one, not susceptible always of legal tracery. As a young man, he was not scrupulous on those points. Events might show that he was less so than a cautious man should be. To tell truth, he did not feel positive assurance that his wife may have been altogether what she pretended to be. The Guerlin affair, unexpected as it was, might prove a very awkward one. 
               In such event, his hope lay in Adolphe. He therefore spurred on his son to increased vigilance. He begged him to make a "dashing campaign." He took a romantic interest in his excursions and in his reports. He even ventured into a visit of reconnaissance on his own part to the quiet village of Newtown. He was charmed with the agreeable and conciliating manners of the old lady, Mrs. Fleming, who put on her best cap to do honor to the distinguished visitor. She talked of Adolphe with a motherly affection, and dropped hints about the attachment of the young people, in a way that quite charmed and satisfied Mr. Quid. Even Kitty herself, mindful, perhaps, that the old gentleman had been kind in extending to them a home, was full of her little tokens of respect and gratitude, and to the chance inuendoes of the admiring father, she lent such pretty and easy-coming blushes as fairly captivated the old man. 
               Mrs. Fleming was satisfied, in her own mind, that he had come for no other purpose than to ask the hand of Kitty for Adolphe; and she had an answer prepared-arranged in her mind since the time she caught the first glimpse of Mr. Quid through the curtains of her chamber-window. And Kitty, in virtue of her mother's winks and smiles, had a fear that the affair of Adolphe might become very soon one of serious question and answer: but she, even yet, blush as she might, had no answer ready. 
               Howbeit, the old gentleman was in capital humor (as he had abundant reason to be) with the present aspect of affairs. The chances of Adolphe appeared good. It seemed plain that the property in any event would revert to the Quid name; and even supposing his own possession established, in opposition to the Guerlin claim, the most graceful gift that he could confer upon his pretty daughter-in-law, would be (he thought) her own rights. He even allowed himself, in a cheerful vein, to paint the delicate and fatherly manner in which he would perform that service; the blushes of the bride, the wild enthusiasm of his son, the admiration of society, and the confusion of both Blimmer and the Countess. Not for many days-I might even say weeks-had there passed a happier body down through the walk which is skirted with hollyhock blossoms, all the way from the Bodgers' door to the gate, than passed that day in the person of Mr. Quid senior. 
               But it occurred to this gentleman, when the gate was closed upon him, and his pleasant imaginative burst had subsided, that, in order to secure this agreeable diversion of the Bodgers' property, to the pretty prospective bride of Adolphus, it would be essential to keep a sharp lookout for the preservation and the proving of the will, now in the hands of Mr. Blimmer. Heretofore, indeed, up to the date when the Guerlin first made her appearance, and before he had gained his present satisfied state of feeling in respect to the gallant advances of Adolphus, he had looked upon the paper in the possession of Mr. Blimmer with an evil eye. At present, however, he felt a peculiar regard for that document. He was anxious to arrange preliminaries by which it might be gracefully and naturally brought into notice. 
               With this view, he determined to pay a friendly visit at the office of Mr. Bivins, the attorney. 
             
             
                
               XXXII. MR. BIVINS MAKES A DISCOVERY. 
                
                   
                     
                        This chapter deals with such a variety of circumstances, that I can find no proper motto to set before it.
                      
                     AUTHOR'S APOLOGY. 
                   
                
               WHAT could Mrs. Dyke mean, by saying that "the Quids had no right to the property, and she could prove it?" Good Mrs. Fleming wondered; wondered very much; wondered so much that, on a certain morning, when Kitty was busy with her buzzing choir, she slipped on her black widow's bonnet, set off with crimped tabs, and sallied across to the office of Squire Bivins, for the sake of informing him, confidentially, of her wonder as to what Mrs. Dyke could mean. 
               Mr. Bivins, in confidence, wondered too. 
               Mrs. Fleming wondered what Mr. Bivins wondered at? 
               Mr. Bivins wondered what Mrs. Dyke could mean. 
                
               Thereupon Mrs. Fleming wondered if there was anything in it? 
               Mr. Bivins wondered too. 
               Mrs. Fleming then wanted to know if he thought there was anything in it? 
               Mr. Bivins thought there might be. 
               Squire Bivins has the reputation, among the people of Newtown, of being "as smart as a steel-trap." He certainly is keen; and even though he had a less keen pair of eyes, his sharp daughter Mehitabel would not have failed to inform him of what was going on between the little school-mistress of the old Bodgers house, and the dashing Adolphus Quid. 
               This matter has not a little surprised the Squire; he has reflected upon it profoundly: his demand upon the village stock of Virginia twist has been unprecedented. He does not rightly know how to reconcile the earnest addresses of the heir-apparent to the poor girl (Mehitabel says far from pretty), with the indifference he had manifested on their first interview. 
               He associates with it all, Blimmer's earnest inquiries, and Blimmer's negotiations with the Quids. Mrs. Fleming's motherly anxiety about the Quid right of succession is a new phase; and the reported observation of Mrs. Dyke has its weight. Mr. Bivins plats his wig very often. He gives his pantaloons the usual toilet-hitch (notwithstanding the presence of Mrs. Fleming), with nervous frequency. 
               He derives from that lady, in a cautious manner, a knowledge of the circumstances under which Mrs. Dyke had given expression to her opinion. He suggests from his own experience, that the allegation may have been only an amiable womanly fiction, brought forward for the sake of mortifying the pride of Mrs. Fleming. Mrs. Fleming, however, indignantly repels that idea, and will not allow that Mrs. Dyke is capable of making a fiction. 
               "Mortify my pride, indeed!" said Mrs. Fleming, straightening herself in the office-chair. 
               "You think, then, she must be truthful?" pursued Bivins. 
               "Not in the least, sir?" said Mrs. Fleming, with a little temper. 
               "Pray, madame, what do you think then?" urged the Squire, toying with a bit of twist upon the table. 
               "I think," said Mrs. Fleming, with a womanly sort of logic, "that she is insulting, and that she knows more, perhaps, than she pretends to; and that she has no business in the house at all; and that if Quid hasn't a right to the property, who has? and that it is no business of hers, and that if she knows anything, she should be made to tell it; and that it's all false from beginning to end." 
               Mr. Bivins platted his wig, mildly. 
               He pacified Mrs. Fleming by promising to seek an interview with Mrs. Dyke, and to make a searching inquiry: at the same time, he recommended to the old lady strict secresy. 
               The logical powers of Mrs. Dyke were of much the same standard with those of Mrs. Fleming. By dint of art, however, and amiable allusion to Mrs. Dyke's great respectability of character, Mr. Bivins succeeded in arriving at an important fact or two, which lay at the bottom of the housekeeper's explosive declaration. It appeared that the old lady, in her household duties, had fallen upon a certain leathern-bound memorandum-book of the deceased gentleman, only partly filled up with pencil-writing, and which she had determined to convert to her own private uses. In fumbling over the leaves of the note-book, Mrs. Dyke had only recently come upon one or two stray items, which her quarrel with Mrs. Fleming had converted into thunder against the Quids. 
               The book was produced before the scrutinizing eye of Mr. Bivins. The first entry which had attracted the notice of Mrs. Dyke was this: "Sign my will, have it witnessed." At the end of this was a little cross in pencil, signifying in the Squire's fashion, as the previous pages showed, that the thing was done. 
               Some leaves further on, and indeed very near the end of the notes, was the following entry: 
               "MEM.: To ask the Squire if one witness to a will is enough: if not-get another." 
               There was no pencil-cross after this. 
               Mr. Bivins thought Mrs. Dyke had been hasty in her conclusions. Mrs. Dyke thought perhaps she might have been; but "she didn't like folks to be uppish, as if they were better than everybody else; and for her own part, she had no doubt that the Squire did made a will, and a good one; and that Mr. Quid wasn't once thought of, from beginning to end." 
               Mr. Bivins guessed it might be so, but couldn't say. He recommended prudence to Mrs. Dyke, and slipped the memorandum-book of the Squire in his pocket. 
               He had the memorandum-book in his pocket when Mr. Quid did him the honor of calling at his office. 
               Mr. Bivins received his visitor with even more than his usual courtesy. He took occasion to express his regret that the affair of the Bodgers estate had been somewhat disturbed, and that a new claimant should have appeared in the person of a foreign lady. He hoped things were getting on passably well. 
               Mr. Quid said they were; and sneered at the Countess as an impostor who might deceive such people as the Fudges and Brazitt; "but," pursued he, "men like you and I, Mr. Bivins, who have seen the world, are not so easily taken in." 
               "No, to be sure not," said Bivins, giving a side cast of his eye to the corner, as if he were looking for somebody with whom he might exchange a quiet wink. 
               "By the way," said Mr. Quid, "if I remember rightly, Mr. Bivins, you spoke on one occasion to my son about having, on a certain occasion, drawn up a will for the late Bodgers?" 
               "I did," said the attorney. 
               "Which was not executed?" 
               "Which was not executed-at the time." 
               "Oh!" 
               "Just so!" said Mr. Bivins in a confirmatory manner, and with an air of attention. 
               "And, Mr. Bivins," pursued his visitor, "might I-ask if you hear anything more of that will?" 
               "Occasionally," said Mr. Bivins, eyeing keenly his visitor. 
               "You think, perhaps, it is in existence?" said Quid. 
                
               "I shouldn't greatly wonder if it was," returned the attorney, speaking in a very slow and measured tone. 
               "In favor of Miss Fleming, I believe?" 
               "In favor of Kitty Fleming," said Bivins. 
               "Mr. Bivins," said the visitor, with an air of self-denying resignation, "I feel an interest in that will." 
               "Just so," said the attorney, with an altogether incautious wink. 
               "You, perhaps, mistake me, sir," said Quid; "I am anxious, if the will exists, that it should be made known and proved. I might, it is true, be a large loser; but I have no desire to controvert what may have been the wishes of the late Mr. Bodgers. 'Fiat justitia, ruat clum,' is a motto with which perhaps you, Mr. Bivins, as a legal man, are familiar." 
               Mr. Bivins said he was; and gave the old sympathetic glance to the office-corner. 
               "I should be happy," continued the visitor, "to do all in my power for the recovery of this will, if it exists; and must beg of you, Mr. Bivins, to act with the same purpose." 
               Mr. Bivins said he would; and ventured to ask, in a somewhat sly way, if by chance he, Mr. Quid, had ever possibly heard any mention of such an instrument in other quarters? 
                
               Mr. Quid replied (with a little confusion, it is true) that he had. A third party had on one occasion spoken of it; indeed, had given him reason to believe that he had fallen upon some traces of it. He should lose no time in pursuing the inquiries; and if he should succeed in discovering it, he would take great pleasure in placing it in the hands of Mr. Bivins, as a magistrate, and administrator upon the estate. He would then satisfy, he said, his sense of justice, besides doing a favor to a very charming young lady. 
               Mr. Quid took further occasion to suggest an inquiry as to whether he might hope for the reimbursement of such sums as had been necessarily expended by him in the defence against foreign claim, in case the will should be brought to light through his efforts? 
               Mr. Bivins was not qualified to speak with authority in such a matter, but he thought the gentleman might safely rely upon the generosity of Miss Fleming. 
               The two gentlemen took leave of each other in a highly amiable manner. 
               Squire Bivins being alone, replaced himself in his corner office-chair, elevated his left foot upon the right knee (a favorite position of the Squire's), threw his head back upon the top of the chair (in a way not to derange his wig), and indulged in a low, humorsome, cackling kind of laugh, expressive of a very high estimate of his own intelligence. He felt that he had probed the matter to the bottom. His reflections were somewhat of this cast: 
               "Quid is growing shy of the Guerlin, but thinks her an impostor, which is all very well. He has a strong liking for the Bodgers property: if the Guerlin should succeed, the testament will upset her claim, and Kitty Fleming will become the lucky holder of the estate. Quid, therefore, sets on his dashing son to make a capture of Miss Kitty, and meantime keeps the will of Mr. Bodgers in his own pocket!" 
               How far Squire Bivins was right I leave the reader to judge for himself. It is certain that he is fully possessed of this view of the case; and he forms his plans accordingly. Mrs. Fleming, he thinks, should be advised of the mercenary nature of Mr. Quid's attentions; and he very safely trusts to the zeal of Mehitabel to make the same thing known to Miss Kitty. 
               This accomplished, he trusts to the agency of the law to compel Mr. Quid to produce before Probate the will of the late Mr. Bodgers. Great caution, however, he foresees, will be necessary in effecting this latter movement. Too great eagerness might lead to a destruction of the papers. 
                
               And if Mr. Bivins had been as penetrating in matters affecting female pride, as in the wiles of a bankrupt claimant of a large estate, he would have foreseen great difficulty in his negotiations with the Flemings themselves. 
               Indeed, Mrs. Fleming resented indignantly the kind intimation of the Squire, in regard to the views of the younger Quid. She knew what a young man's attentions were; she could see whether they were earnest or not; she wanted no instructions about her daughter. Did Mr. Bivins pretend to suppose that there was nothing to attract a young man about Kitty, except her chance of getting a fortune? It might be so with other people's daughters, but she thanked her stars that it was not so with hers! 
               I regret to be compelled to write down what Squire Bivins said; but he did say it: he said, "D-n it!" 
               As for Miss Kitty, the next Sunday, after service, she winced fearfully under the sharp tongue of Mehitabel, and retaining her composure only long enough to thank that maiden lady for her amiable expression of interest, and to make her escape, she fell afterwards into a fit of tears, which, like the good daughter that she was, she hid in the solitude of her own chamber. 
                
               As for the influence of Miss Bivins' communication, I do not think it was any better than that of the Squire's to Mrs. Fleming. Kitty grew, indeed, into a sudden charity for the gay-hearted Adolphe; as if some such amiable interest were needed to protect him from the fearful gossip of the village. And when he made his next visit to Newtown, I do believe that the sympathies of both mother and daughter made his chances look far sunnier than they had ever looked before. Nor would it greatly surprise me if my cousin Kitty should have an answer ready whenever the gallant Adolphus is disposed to press his inquiries. 
               When a young girl assumes the defence of a suitor against the tongue of scandal, it is my opinion that she is unconsciously weakening her own defences. 
               Mr. Bivins' strategy has failed in one direction; we shall presently see if it succeeds in the other. 
             
             
                
               XXXIII. THE COUNTESS AND THE COUNT. 
                
                   
                     
                        "A man can buy nothing in the market with gentility."
                      
                     LORD BURLEIGH. 
                   
                
                
                   
                     
                        "Quel est I'idal d'un jeune homme riche? Le club, le sport, et le cigare. Et d'un jeune homme moins riche? Une bourse bien remplie."
                      
                     LIMAYRAC. 
                   
                
               I WISH to relieve my sensitive reader. Wilhelmina has forsaken the paternal mansion by stealth; but Wilhelmina is a Countess! It is on her card, and her card is in the porcelain plate upon Mrs. Fudge's table; and the servants are instructed to speak of her as the Countess, and no longer as Wilhelmina. To prevent confusion, I shall still speak of her myself, as Wilhelmina. The card alluded to, reads in this way:- 
                     'THE COUNTESS SALLE, "ne FUDGE."
                  
                   It is a pretty card, and useful. There is a crest at the top of it. 
               The circumstances connected with this sudden bridal were made known in a plaintive letter from Wilhelmina addressed to her bereaved parents jointly. Young Spindle, she assured them, was out of the question; she could never, never love him. The Count Salle, who was now her devoted husband, she had been attached to for a long time. In marrying another she felt that she would do a great wrong to her own heart. She had fondly hoped that he might have won his way into the confidence of her dear papa, and so secured his consent; but foreseeing that her dear papa was unalterable in his opposition, she had at length given her consent to a clandestine marriage. 
               She assured them of the profound attachment of the Count both to herself and to the family interests; and she did hope that he would be received, ere long, with open arms, by her forgiving parents. The Count had, with a great deal of frankness and candor, told her of "his comparatively limited means;" it was his intention to call upon her father, in reference to certain necessary business arrangements; and she did hope "that papa would receive him as a son, whose interest was now closely cemented to the family." 
                
               The Count himself was one of those adventurous European gentlemen, who, having exhausted the greatest part of his means and character in the pleasures of the old world, had determined to commence afresh upon the American side. The reported successes of sundry old friends, and the admiration which American ladies were understood to entertain for titles, encouraged him to hope for favor. Reasoning like most Europeans, he had counted the Fudge display as evidence of great wealth, and had long ago fastened his affections upon the artless Wilhelmina, as one fitted to adorn his home and to equip his rank. 
               The appearance of the Guerlin had not a little disconcerted him. I have frequently had occasion to observe that our most favorite and popular exiles are exceedingly shy of their brother nobles. It must be remembered, however, that rank implies a certain degree of exclusiveness; and exclusiveness implies more or less of distance. 
               The Count was distant to the Countess; whether he distrusted her, or feared that she might have a distrust of him, I cannot say. It is certain that he thought it safer to urge matters with the attractive Wilhelmina, and bring the affair to a crisis. Having secured that accomplished young lady, he took an early occasion to make an expiatory tory call upon Mr. Solomon Fudge; and used the same opportunity to open negotiations with that gentleman, with respect to certain marriage-settlements upon the daughter. 
               My uncle Solomon was certainly relieved to find that the affair wore the regimen of an orderly and legal marriage; and the announcement of the event under the usual head in his favorite morning paper, took a heavy load off his mind. As for Mrs. Fudge, she was excessively charmed by the half column in the Herald, which was headed, "Clandestine Marriage in Upper Tendom." 
               But the old gentleman's gratification at learning of the legality of the affair was not by any means so extravagant as to work itself off in any large moneyed advances to the Count. His notion of marriage was wholly different from that of his European son-in-law. He had married himself in those old-fashioned times when men supported their wives, and not wives their husbands. It seemed to him an orderly and business-like way. He should have no objection to endorse for a limited sum, in favor of the Count, provided he should enter upon a safe and remunerative business. He thought the Count's knowledge of French might qualify him for a position in some foreign shipping-houses, which he was good enough to name. 
                
               The Count swore fearfully. 
               My uncle Solomon was unruffled; his manner was entirely calm; he sat in his usual position; he turned his gold-bowed spectacles end for end, with nice regularity, upon his office-table. 
               The Count grew insolent, and wished to know if Mr. Fudge was aware that he had done an honor to the family in marrying his daughter? 
               My uncle Solomon said "he was not;" and turned the gold-bowed spectacles end for end. 
               The Count said he had sacrificed his rank to his affections. 
               Mr. Fudge said he "was sorry for it." 
               The Count said, "enfin, Mr. Fudge, I have marry your daughter, as you ver well know; will you now make settlement upon her, like one gentleman?" 
               Mr. Fudge turned the gold-bowed spectacles end for end, very composedly, and said he regretted that he should be able "to do no such thing." 
               "Ver well! ver well!" said the Count, with a very quick utterance, "I will make you know of it, Mr. Fudge!" And the Count passed out of the office, shaking his light walking-stick, gracefully mounted with an opera-dancer's leg in ivory, in the most violent manner. 
               The Count Salle had shown himself to be a somewhat what dangerous man in his aggressions upon female character; but I think my uncle Solomon had a considerable contempt for his powers or capacity in any other direction. I think that after the disappearance of his noble son-in-law, he replaced his spectacles upon his nose, and reverted to his morning paper (perhaps with a stifled fatherly sigh in favor of "poor Wilhe!") in his usual composed manner. 
               Yet my uncle Solomon was very vulnerable: a man whose Wall street engagements are large, especially in Dauphin or Cumberland, is always vulnerable. But who, or what was the Count, to disturb the speculations, or to break upon the quietude of the bank-officer of Wall street? Money makes a stout panoply against any shafts that come from beggars; and even the reputation of riches is a shield that no poor man can easily pierce through. 
               Poor uncle Solomon, sitting in his bank-chair, looking through his gold bowed spectacles, reading his morning paper, forgets that he is a father; he feels strong in his reputation at "the Board;" money is still his idol. 
               The Count has fallen in very naturally, and in a fraternal way, with Washington Fudge. The Count has formed his own ideas of that young gentleman's intimacy with the Countess de Guerlin; judging, perhaps, from some previous knowledge of that lady's character; judging, perhaps, from the vivacious temperament of the young gentleman; judging, perhaps-erroneously. 
               He, however, cultivates a familiarity very flattering to his brother-in-law. Washington even grows proud of the connection, and is sponsor for a great many opera-house tickets, which serve the bridal pair and himself, jointly. It is rather a feather in his cap, to stroll down Broadway arm-in-arm with the Count, meeting the Spindles or the Pinkertons, as the case may be, in an ineffable French manner. He even cuts some of his older hum-drum acquaintances, and loans small sums to the Count. He thinks the old gentleman will "poney up," sooner or later. It looks very much as if it would be later. 
               He finds, indeed, the old gentleman rather crusty with himself; he is compelled to abandon the thought once entertained, of a fast trotter and wagon. He abandons, at the same time, an opening in a down-town counting-room, secured to him by the efforts of my uncle Solomon. He is, in short, reduced to great straits to "raise the needful." He gets a hint, meantime, from the Count, of the small dealings "on time" at the Board. He knows something from the wise ones, of the occasional appearance of his father at that market. He indulges in a quiet way, under the advices of the Count, and proves very successful. He fancies he has a tact for those things. I never knew a dealer in the stocks, who did not fancy that he had a certain tact.
                
               If Washington lacked confirmation, from his own experience, he would have been supplied by the complimentary advances of his noble friend, the Count. At length, however, Mr. Washington does make an error-he loses-loses largely-he is positively without funds. 
               The Count said it was unfortunate-"ver unfortunate;" and all the more so, because a new mining-stock (I think it was lead, zinc, and copper combined) was about to be offered at the Board-a few thousand shares only-sold by stress of circumstances (as such great stocks usually are), and warranting immense returns. The Count thought seventy per cent., at the very least. It was understood that a bishop had recommended it, and held a few shares. A certain vestry-man of high moral worth vouched for it. A late Governor had written a letter, in which he said that "if he ever dealt in stocks (which he did not), he did not know of one which, by the promises extended, gave reason for a holder to anticipate so enormous a return." 
               The Herald said it had been noised that a holder in the Lead, Zinc, and Copper Mining Company, would offer a certain number of shares at the Board. The statement, however, must be received with distrust. From inquiry, the commercial editor had ascertained that the report was fabricated by persons interested in a rival company; no shares in the fore-mentioned mine were to be had for "love or money." 
               The Count knew better. If he had ten thousand dollars by him, he could make thirty. He hadn't it by him. Neither had Wash. 
               A thought struck the Count. Twenty days would turn the profit. Could Wash make a loan for twenty days only? Washington didn't think he could. 
               The Count suggested that Mr. Fudge's paper (the elder) was current in the street. Washington supposed so. 
               The Count suggested that a small note for ten thousand dollars, at twenty days, in his father's name, signed-as a matter of form-by Washington-for his father, would be sufficient to raise the wind. In less than twenty days the paper could be taken up, and he, Wash, might pocket a pretty profit of from ten to fifteen thousand dollars, at the very least.
                
               Washington demurred somewhat. But the Count was an artist in his talk, and presently rounded the belief of the banker's son into his own shape of thinking. 
               The paper was drawn up, and my accomplished cousin Wash put his father's name-in a hand very like the old gentleman's-to a "promise to pay," twenty days after date, the sum of ten thousand dollars. 
               Uncle Solomon at that very time was passing his gold-bowed spectacles end for end upon his office-table, and remarking, to a brother banker, in his stately way, that crime was frightfully on the increase. 
               "The habits of our young people are growing very extravagant," said the brother banker. 
               "I think they are," said my uncle Solomon. 
               And I believe he was honest. 
             
             
                
               XXXIV. OUR SOCIAL REPUBLICANISM. 
                
                   
                     
                         
                           "Stand not so much on your gentility, 
                           Which is an airy and mere borrowed thing 
                           From dead men's dust and bones; and none of yours, 
                           Except you make or hold it." 
                        
                      
                     BEN JONSON. 
                   
                
               WE are all capital republicans-Fudges, Pinkertons, Spindles, and all of us. Of course we are. Who doubts it? And there is not a people on earth who show such tender regard for those who have the misfortune to be born under a different regimen, and to wear titles. I may say that American ladies are conspicuous for this sort of charity. Orphan-asylums are very well in their way, and so are schools for the blind; but compare these objects of benevolence with what is due to a Baron, or a Count, or a Prince? Think of a man who has been the slave of courts, who has not dared to murmur against the smile of a queen! how our graceful feminine charities flow out towards him, envelop him, sustain him, and soothe him! Gentleness forgets itself in a tempest of sympathy, and modesty flings away its veil in the earnestness of the sweet alms-giving. 
               What a brilliant and tenderly-remembered epoch in the family annals was that, when Lord Morpeth attended the Pinkerton ball; or when the Baron of Strelitz-Schwerin took Miss Spindle by the hand and taught her how to pronounce his aristocratic name; or when the Prince of Heligoland, in lightish pantaloons, with a stripe (for all the world just such as a common man might have worn, so humble was the Prince), consented to a drive in our family carriage, and afterwards took tea with the Fudges! 
               I was once accidentally interested in a poor peasant family that came from Paisley in Scotland, and landed in New York with scarce a penny, and three sick children to provide for. I brushed about among the wealthy people with whom I was on speaking-terms, with the hope of raising money for them; but nobody thought me serious. A happy idea occurred to me. I dropped a paragraph in a morning-paper, stating that a poor gentleman of a distinguished Scotch house, and wearing the title of Lord Glenartney, had arrived in town, and was, with his sick family, in extreme want. I brought the paragraph to the notice of my aunt Phbe. She thanked me kindly, and asked if I thought it would be comme il faut to call, and was particular to learn the proper hour. 
               I told her I thought his lordship might consider it a little brusque, and hinted that, being really in want, he would not object to a little money coming from an unknown source. The money was sent; and my aunt insisted that he should be invited to dine on his very first going out, with herself. He did; but being an honest, plain-spoken fellow, the truth came out. I think my aunt never wholly forgave me; and never thought a charity or attention so ill-timed as that to poor Glenartney. 
               The Pinkertons arranged a little fte at their "fine country-place," two miles out, for the Countess de Guerlin. The invitations were very numerous. People who were not invited wondered who the Countess really was; people who were invited, did not wonder at all. The ladies who had not already enjoyed that distinction, were crazy to see her. They had heard she was so elegant, and modest withal-ready to chat with anybody; replied, it was understood, with rare condescension, to questions that were put to her. She had even thrummed an air on Miss Spindle's piano with the olian attachment; and such playing! 
               But hours passed, and the Countess did not come. Could the Countess be ill? It was wondered, in that event, what physician would be honored with a call. People talked of what house she would probably occupy upon the Avenue, in the event of her remaining. It was hoped she would remain. "What an accession," said Miss Spindle, "to our circle!" 
               Still the Countess did not come. It was remarked, moreover, that the Fudges, who had been thrown by accident into relations with the Countess, were also away. People wondered very much what it could mean. Miss Pinkerton said she was intrigue horribly. 
               Twelve o'clock sounded, and there was no Countess-no Fudges. A buzzing, vulgar lawyer, whom people were surprised to see at the fte, and who, it was understood, had some time acted as professional adviser of Mr. Quid, hinted in corner groups that she wouldn't come, in a way that greatly incensed people. 
               And the lawyer was right. The Countess did not come at all. The Pinkertons found the next day, to their amazement, that the Countess had sailed under another name in the steamer which left port on the very noon preceding the fte.
                
                
               There were other people, trades-people, among them, who shared the amazement and concern of the Pinkertons. Mr. Brazitt, however, was cheery and vivacious. He had "touched" a considerable proportion of the funds which had been advanced to the Countess on the strength of her claims to the large Bodgers estate. 
               Had Mr. Quid bought off the Countess? Not he. But he had received a valuable and interesting paquet per steamer, from his old friend, Mr. Jenkins. A portion of the contents of this paquet had been communicated in a quiet way to the Countess, and had been laid before the Fudges. 
               The facts made known were not flattering to the distinguished migre. It appeared from the communication of Mr. Jenkins that the so-called Countess de Guerlin had been long under the eye of the Paris police, and was strongly suspected of certain swindling operations to a large amount, in connection with a professor of French in the Rue St. Honor, and a Colonel Duprez, which last-named individual was now in custody. 
               Her history was not a little romantic. She wore her father's name (excepting the title), although without any legal claim to it. Her mother, it appeared, was femme de chambre to the wife of Monsieur de Guerlin. This maid-servant of Madame de Guerlin had previously served that lady when she bore the name of Madame Bodgers, and had superintended the toilet of the little Mademoiselle Bodgers, who came, in time, to be Mrs. Quid. 
               At what precise epoch the escaping Countess came into the world, whether after or before the death of Madame de Guerlin, was not known. It was natural enough, however, that a man of the catholic social views of de Guerlin, should treat with a more tender regard his own daughter, though wrongfully born, than his step-daughter, who traced her origin to the old scion of the Bodgers house. And this tenderness will perhaps explain how the artful Countess was in possession of those pretty trinkets which told so cleverly upon the sympathies of my cousin Wash, and which once adorned the bosom of the widow Bodgers. 
               Mr. Quid did not grieve over the evidences of dissoluteness in the character of Mrs. Quid's stepfather; or, if he did, he found abundant consolation in other papers accompanying that evidence, to wit: full testimony from the mairie of the commune, of his marriage to Miss Bodgers, daughter of the deceased Samuel Bodgers, late of Newtown, United States of America. 
               Mr. Jenkins had executed his task in a businesslike way, and Mr. Quid was grateful. 
                
               The Pinkertons, who had bespoken through a third party (who was to communicate on his own responsibility with a graceful small writer) a short sketch of their fte champtre, countermanded the wish. The Joneses, who had not been invited, never ceased their inquiries, through common friends, about the disposition of the fte; and even carried their ill-will so far as to speak of it to the Pinkertons themselves. Of course the Joneses knew what the character of the Countess was from the beginning. "Any one who had seen the world must have known what she was." 
               The Spindles removed the olian attachment from their piano. Miss Spindle abandoned French and pursued German. 
               Mr. Brazitt, as I have remarked, was cheery and vivacious; he was the only man, indeed, who seemed seriously to have enjoyed the visit of the Countess; and he made use of the whole affair at a political dinner which came off shortly after, in a strong speech, illustrating in an exceedingly happy manner the tendency of true democratic and republican principles. He was cheered vociferously throughout; and Mr. Quid, who was present, but somewhat maudlin with wine, cried out lustily, "Go it, Brazitt." 
               As for our family, they did not bear the departure ure of the Countess with the composure they should have shown. Miss Jemima recalled her little conversazione with considerable rancor. The old lady, her mother, said the thought of it made her "kind o' sickish-like." 
               My aunt Phbe would have borne the sorrow better, and have shared her mortification quietly with Wash, if my uncle Solomon had not insisted vexatiously upon the topic. He regretted the Countess-exceedingly. He feared Phbe would be lonely. He thought the Joneses had not shown her so much attention as they should have done, and appealed to Phbe. He was surprised that she had not left her cards at leaving; but he supposed "it was the French way." He asked if Phbe intended to write the Countess; and if so, in English or in French? 
               As for Mr. Quid, he did not suffer the cheerful aspect of affairs to divert his mind from business. Nothing now lay between him and the full enjoyment of the Bodgers estate but the will in the hands of Mr. Blimmer. He did not feel so anxious for the preservation of that document as upon the recent occasion of his visit to the office of Mr. Bivins. 
               He called his son Adolphus into consultation. In the course of it, allusion was made to Miss Kitty Fleming. Adolphus expressed himself sportively, to the effect that "it was a dull run to pursue that game any further." 
               His father urged great caution until it could be known what might be done with Blimmer. He was determined to make a vigorous effort to possess himself of the paper now in that gentleman's hands. In case he should fail, Adolphus must perceive that his chance still lay with Miss Kitty, and, to tell truth, "she was a pretty enough girl, and he thought that he might do worse." 
               Adolphus thought "perhaps he might." He drove out with Arabella Spindle the next day; a thing he had not done before for a month. She entirely agreed with him that the Countess was an odious woman; nothing lady-like about her. They made themselves, in fact, quite merry in recalling her vulgarities. They drove until dark. But Mr. Quid was very agreeable. 
               "Such a piquant young man!" said she to her mother. 
               Mrs. Spindle said he was-very. 
             
             
                
               XXXV. QUID, BLIMMER, AND BIVINS. 
                
                  
                     Cicero, speaking about the Catiline conspiracy, in a letter to a friend, says: "When a man has once transcended the bounds of decency, it is in vain to recede, and his wisest way is to push on boldly in the same confident course to the end of his purpose."
                   
                
               MR. QUID took a considerable sum of ready money with him, when he made his call upon Mr. Blimmer. Irish Jerry, still in the Blimmersville employ, had an indistinct recollection of the gentleman. By dint of a nervous scratch over his left ear, the lad called up quite a train of associations in connection with that elegant gentleman. He remembered a long walk to Fulton Ferry, a sort of holiday for him; he remembered a considerable practice in capitals, and writing generally, afterwards; he remembered still more clearly a severe thump upon his head, given by Mr. Blimmer, very gratuitously (as Jerry thought), later in the day. 
               What made the association still more lively, was the fact that Mr. Blimmer, on the present occasion, made a Tom-foolery errand, by which Jerry might take himself off. The lad did, indeed, clatter down the stairs with commendable energy; but presently returned in a cautious manner and took up position on the outside of the Blimmersville office door. There was not much passing upon the Blimmersville stairs; and Jerry was able to gratify a very active if not laudable curiosity. 
               The interview opened with a little benevolent crimination on the part of Mr. Quid, for the double play of Mr. Blimmer. The accused gentleman defended himself with a great deal of amiability, and congratulated Mr. Quid upon the improved aspect of affairs, now that the Countess had retired. 
               Mr. Quid expressed himself gratefully, and hinted that there was now only one obstacle to the peaceable and judicious arrangement of the whole matter. He hinted that Mr. Blimmer knew very well what that obstacle was. 
               Mr. Blimmer remarked in a tone of half-inquiry "that he probably referred to the will which he had the honor of receiving from the hands of Mr. Bodgers, shortly before that gentleman's death." 
               Mr. Quid said he did so; and regretted that he was only in possession of a copy of that instrument. He thought he could make it worth the while of Mr. Blimmer to transfer to him, as a person related to the deceased, the copy still in his possession. And Mr. Quid, by an inadvertent kind of gesture, passed his hands into his coat-pocket, drawing from thence a very plumply-filled wallet. 
               Mr. Blimmer loved the sight of bank-notes, both as proprietor of Blimmersville, and as an individual. He did not, as the reader will very well understand, place any extraordinary value upon the paper in his possession. Of his own handwriting, and that of Jerry, he had frequent specimens in circular letters and other documents. He did not consider, therefore, the moneyed propositions of his visitor as wholly inadmissible. 
               Mr. Quid proceeded like a man of business; he counted out a large sum-larger than had fallen under the eye of the Blimmersville proprietor in a long time. He proposed to hand this sum over to Mr. Blimmer, without receipt or other writing, provided he was at once put in possession of the will of Mr. Bodgers, now in Blimmer's keeping. 
               Mr. Blimmer spoke pathetically of a trust imposed on him by an old acquaintance, under so distressing circumstances as attended the burning of the Eclipse; he was also aware, however, of the interests of Mr. Quid, through his late wife, and of the strong desire which those so near of kin would naturally feel to possess themselves of little mementoes of the deceased. 
               This last view of the case prevailed with him; and, having received from Mr. Quid the proffered sum, he transferred, at the same time, to that gentleman the draft of the will, which has been already brought to the knowledge of the reader. He furthermore solemnly declared to Mr. Quid, that he had put him in possession of all the documents of every kind, which had been handed him by the deceased Mr. Bodgers. 
               Mr. Quid glanced his eye over the instrument, and observed with special gratification the quaint and highly interesting character of the signature. It certainly differed very much from that affixed to the paper already in his possession. 
               Mr. Quid sometimes smoked a mild Havana; he drew one from his pocket. Would Mr. Blimmer draw a match for him? 
               Mr. Blimmer drew a match. 
               Mr. Quid dexterously lighted-not the segar-but the corner of the will. Mr. Blimmer feigned a strong demurral. But the paper burned easily, and presently was thrown, a mere cinder, upon the ashes of the grate. 
               "You will perceive," said Mr. Quid, in an amiable tone, "that I have made you a party to this little transaction for the sake of fuller security. You drew the match, I lighted the paper. I think that is the state of the case?" 
               Mr. Blimmer smiled awkwardly, and said he believed it was. Mr. Quid offered him thereupon a segar, and they smoked together in a familiar manner. Some remarks were passed between them in respect to Mr. Bivins, of Newtown. Both seemed to agree that he was a man they should be very cautious of. Indeed, he seemed the only individual whose pertinacity was to be feared. Mr. Quid expressed the belief that he held the means of thoroughly quieting the investigations of that gentleman. 
               Mr. Blimmer hoped he did. 
               When Jerry returned from his errand, a half hour after this, he was thoroughly blown. Mr. Blimmer scolded him for having been gone a very long time. Jerry said, and said truly, that he never ran faster in his life. The fact was, he set off late. 
               Mr. Quid walked home, flourishing daintily his gold-headed cane. He talked in a sportive humor to himself, and remarked jocularly to Mr. Quid, "that the affair had rather a cheery look. As for Bivins," said he, "he thinks I am interested in the will. Ha! ha! so I am; so I am, Mr. Bivins. Should be happy to find the will, Mr. Bivins-very happy. Fiat justitia, ruat clum. Ha! ha! Mr. Bivins!" 
               In his magnanimity he thinks he can well afford to put the copy in the hands of that gentleman. It will look generous; it will divert suspicion; it will show a tender interest in the Flemings that will serve to counterbalance any wayward tendencies, just now, of Adolphus. 
               Indeed, that very afternoon Mr. Quid drove out Newtown. He visited the office of Mr. Bivins, on the meeting-house corner, and quite cheered the Squire with his gaiety of spirits. He alluded to the conversation on a previous visit. He wished to give assurance to Mr. Bivins that he had spoken in good faith. The fact of being relieved of so impertinent an adversary as the foreign lady, who called herself the Countess de Guerlin, had in no way lessened his interest in the Fleming family. His ideas of strict justice remained the same. He might say, without self-flattery, that they would always remain the same. 
               Squire Bivins took the occasion to supply himself with a fresh quid, and to remark that "he had no doubt of it." 
                
               Mr. Quid continued to say that he had pushed his inquiries with zeal, and that he had the happiness now of informing Mr. Bivins that he had come into possession of a document which appeared to be genuine, and which corresponded accurately with the description of Mr. Bivins. 
               It is needless to say that the Squire was somewhat taken "aback." Since the flight of the Guerlin he had observed, or rather Mehitabel had observed, that the visits of Adolphus to Newtown had become less frequent. He argued from this that the young gentleman and father were about to abandon the attempt to secure the estate through marriage; and he was plotting within himself how he might, in the safest manner, cause a summons to be issued to Mr. Quid to produce the will, which he believed to be in his possession, before some court of probate. That Mr. Quid should make a voluntary proffer of that instrument, was something the Squire did not wholly understand. 
               Yet the fact was undoubted; Mr. Quid said he should be most happy to lay the document before Mr. Bivins; and alluded to a sentiment previously expressed, in a foreign tongue, indeed; but he believed Mr. Bivins was aware of its import-to wit: Fiat justitia, ruat clum.
                
               Mr. Bivins took the will, and glanced it over. "There was no doubt it was his own handwriting." 
               Mr. Quid turned pale, but recovered in a moment. Blimmer must have had a good copyist. 
               "Aye," said Bivins, running his eye down to the foot; "and there's Harry's signature." 
               Mr. Quid turned pale again. 
               "But," said Bivins, a little disconcerted it seemed, "it isn't worth a rush!" 
               "No?" said Quid, with an involuntary smile playing on his lip. 
               "Not a rush!" said Bivins, more emphatically still. 
               "How so?" said Mr. Quid, nervously. 
               "The law," said Bivins, pronouncing that monosyllable in a tone calculated to produce great awe, "the law requires two witnesses, at least, in the execution of all such instruments." 
               "Always?" said Quid, disposed half to regret the needless sacrifice of the morning. 
               "There may be cases," said Mr. Bivins, speaking solemnly, and with an air of great authority, "where a will with but a single witness, or, indeed, no witness at all, other than oral testimony, might perhaps be good; as in the case of a soldier dying on the field of battle, or a mariner at sea, or"-- 
                
               "And how about the signature?" said Quid, growing excessively nervous; "the signature of Mr. Bodgers?" 
               Mr. Bivins put on his spectacles, which he had removed in the heat of his legal expressions, and ran his eye over the names at the foot. 
               "Truman Bodgers," said he, reading the name attentively; "it doesn't look quite right; there's something wanting, to be sure," said he, growing more decided in his belief; and he held it at arm's length from him. "I can't believe it's altogether his," said he. And his eye ran from the name of Bodgers to the name of Flint, and he stroked his wig in a reflective manner, and laid the paper upon his knee, and removing his spectacles, placed them upon it, and eyeing keenly Mr. Quid, said: "It's my opinion, sir, that this paper is a forgery!" 
               "Bless me!" said Mr. Quid, affecting great concern, "you don't say so! And who, pray, was the forger?" 
               "A man I never would have suspected," said Bivins, feelingly. "Observe, Mr. Quid, we are talking in confidence." 
               Mr. Quid assented. 
               "It is my opinion," said he, that this paper has been signed and witnessed by the same individual; and that individual is Harry Flint!" 
                
               Mr. Quid shows a surprise, which, under the circumstances is very natural. 
               "Mr. Flint," said Bivins, continuing his reflections, "was a young man attached to my office; a well-to-do young man; but he was a little tender, as my daughter Mehitabel has told me-for I am a poor judge in those matters-towards Miss Kitty Fleming, who is, you perceive, the legatee. Now Mr. Bodgers had undoubtedly drawn up this instrument in her favor, but never, to my knowledge, did he execute it. The signature has certainly not got the Squire's usual flourish. Harry Flint, being a clerk of mine, may very naturally have had the handling of this paper among others of the Squire's which passed back and forth from the office. And as the Squire slipped off without signing it, he may, you understand, have put in the name with his own to make the paper good. As he was in love with Miss Kitty, it would have been natural enough, you know, to wish to put her into possession of the Squire's property." 
               "To be sure," said Quid. "But why don't Harry Flint appear?" 
               "There's just the point," said Bivins; "and it counts more strongly against him than all the rest. On a sudden he slips off to California. Why did he go? My daughter Mehitabel, who is an observing woman, has, I think, touched the matter in the right place. She says 'Kitty rejected him!'" 
               It seemed rather a strong case against poor Harry; but the Squire had forgotten, what we very well know, that Harry Flint had taken his departure from Newtown several days previous to the loss of Mr. Bodgers. 
               Mr. Quid, in an equable mood of mind, although perhaps not entirely so self-possessed as before his visit, bade Mr. Bivins good day, leaving with him the document which had suggested such a novel train of reflections to the Squire, and of which Mr. Quid had very little fear: first, on the ground that the signature of Mr. Bodgers lacked its usual flourish (for which he thought capital reason might be found in the unpractised hand of Mr. Blimmer's copyist), and next, because it lacked the requisite number of witnesses to be made an effective instrument. 
               If there was a forgery in the case, the matter was even better than he hoped. He was perfectly satisfied in his own mind that Mr. Bivins, with all his sharpness, was charging upon Mr. Harry Flint an impropriety which might be more safely laid at the office door of his respectable friend, Mr. Blimmer. Mr. Flint was, however, absent, and the charge being communicated in confidence, and the will void on other grounds, he thought Mr. Flint might very properly wear the weight of the Squire's amiable suspicions without any interference on his part. 
               Mr. Quid, I may remark again, went home in excellent good-humor. He thought well of his sagacity; he thought well of his apparent generosity; he thought well of Adolphus Quid; and he thought even better of Mr. Quid, senior. 
               It would be strange if Mr. Bivins did not speak of his extraordinary suspicion in his family circle; of course it would. And it would be stranger still if Miss Bivins did not repeat the suspicion, with some few additions of her own, in a confidential manner. In this way, it came about that half the old women of Newtown understood, on the "best authority," that Harry Flint, who had gone away in such haste, had proved a forger "for a vast amount." And it came to Kitty's ears, among the rest; who was greatly shocked, but did not trust it at all. 
               And it found its way after a time to the home of the old aunt. (Mehitabel Bivins said everywhere she feared it might.) She, good woman, fearfully disturbed, wrote off a letter full of trouble about the lying scandal of the town, and urged Harry to come back, if it were only for a short visit, to make his name good again, and to cheer up little Bessie, who was grown thin and ailing-all the worse for the Christian lecture that Mehitabel Bivins had read to her, with the other girls, in the Sunday-class, about the awful sin of forgery, which she feared an old townsman (Bessie knew who she meant) had been guilty of. 
               Miss Mehitabel was immensely gratified in being able to add yet another topic to her usual range of gossip. Adolphus Quid came more rarely to Newtown. Indeed he came now very rarely. Mehitabel wondered (with the neighbors) if he had jilted poor Kitty? She pitied her, indeed she did. And what is more, she told everybody in the village, with that sharp tongue of hers, how much she pitied her. She knew from the beginning that young Quid was not in earnest. She hoped, indeed she did, that matters were no worse than they seemed! 
               And Kitty had need of pity, both earnest and kind. Not that her heart was broken by any negligence in attention of that out-sided gentleman, Adolphe; I think, indeed, that least of all in the old Bodgers house she regretted the growing absence of his gay carriage at the gate. 
               And yet she had yielded measurably to her mother's whim; the hearts of girlhood are very pliable. Often-times she had set up before her-Duty (for obedience to her mother in all things seemed duty), and tried to transfigure it into Love. And even though she had not yet thoroughly succeeded, her very struggle towards the fond old mother's wish, quickened her sensibilities and made her keenly jealous of a slight. 
               Therefore, when the long-continued visits and the frequent offerings became rare and uncertain, Kitty, from very sympathy, wore half the pain which clouded her mother's face. For until then, with a simplicity which interpreted language at its full meaning, she had never once imagined that Adolphe had played false, or pretended to greater feeling than belonged to him. Never once, under the guidance of the old mother's observation, had she questioned the earnestness of his feeling; her only hesitancy lay in doubt as to her own. To change the inquiry now was very, very humiliating. 
               But there was not long occasion for any question of this sort. Mehitabel sharpened her tongue more and more upon poor Kitty's forsaken condition. Adolphe's visits grew more and more rare. Finally, there came one day a pitiful letter from him, saying "how sincerely he had been attached to her, and how much he regretted that his father's wish forbade further intimacy with one whose memory he should always cherish very affectionately." 
               Kitty had not one tear for this letter, though she felt very bitterly. With a woman's instinct, she looked through the words to the very marrow of his intent, and the falsity of months past flashed on her in a moment. It is a bitter thing when a guileless woman first learns to regard any manly character-no matter where she finds it-with contempt. It weakens that better estimate of humanity which gives sunshine to life. It breaks down womanly faith, where womanly faith ought to be strong. 
               I said Kitty had no tears to shed over the letter; certainly not in the reading of it-nor for hours after. But at night, by herself, when she recalled her mother's bitter mortification and her own delusion (to be guarded against ever after through the whole course of her life by a watchful and constant suspicion), she grew troubled, and shed tears; not girlish tears, but those of a woman. 
               I think the little scholars of her next day's school remarked something more of dignity in her manner than they had seen before; they thought at first she would have been severe. But, if anything, she was more kind than ever. 
             
             
                
               XXXVI. UNCLE SOLOMON BROUGHT TO BAY. 
                
                   
                     
                        "The state of man is not unlike that of a fish hooked by an angler. We flounce, and sport, and vary our situation; but on a sudden we discover our confinement, checked and limited by a superior hand, who drags us from our element whensoever he pleases."
                      
                     SHENSTONE. 
                   
                
               TWENTY days had nearly gone by, and yet the Copper, Zinc, and Lead-Mining Company did not grow upon the confidence of the out-siders in Wall street. Quotations of the stock were far more frequent than the Herald had predicted. Shares could be had for "love or money"-and for very little of either. They had fallen from seven and an eighth, to five and three-quarters. So far from being in a condition to pay up the paper in his father's name, Washington Fudge found he would fall short in the sum of from three to four thousand dollars. It worried him: it seemed to worry the Count. 
                
               The last-named gentleman had meantime made another and unsuccessful attempt to secure a handsome allowance, in behalf of Wilhelmina, from Mr. Solomon Fudge. My uncle Solomon was most sincere in his refusal. He was without the means, if he had entertained the wish to comply. This, however, the Count did not know, and could not believe. He shook his stick at the old gentleman with a heartier indignation even than before. He would "make Mr. Solomon Fudge know of it." And he did; for now the rich banker was vulnerable, even to so beggarly an enemy as the Count. 
               The forged paper of my cousin Wash was in the hands of a note-broker in the street, whom the Count had recommended to Washington. The Count called upon the broker; he wished to see him privately. He was anxious to know if a certain note-describing it-for ten thousand dollars, had been offered him? 
               It had been. 
               And he had discounted it? 
               The broker had done so. 
               The Count regretted exceedingly, but he had strong reason to fear that the note was not good; that, in short, it was a forged note. 
               The broker thought he knew the paper of Mr. Fudge; he had bought a great deal of it; and, moreover, the present note was actually offered by his son Washington Fudge. 
               "If you wish," said the Count, "you shall walk with me to the office of Mr. Fudge. You will satisfy yourself. I do assure you it shall be safe." 
               It was but a little way, and the broker accompanied the noble son-in-law of the banker to the Wall street office, where I had occasion first to present to the notice of my reader the late mayor and vestry-man-the eminent merchant-my uncle, Mr. Solomon Fudge. 
               He is not so erect as when we saw him first. I think he is thinner. He has had his troubles-not at home only, but on 'Change. It is very doubtful if he can hold out for even a week to come. But the world knows nothing of this. Every one counts Solomon Fudge a rich man. His carriage comes to take him up at three, as it has any time in ten years past. He joins his wife in her Sunday pew, and sits grandly in the corner, in his starched cravat-keeping up the bubble, if it may be, until the end. 
               He may have some bitter thoughts about the children of his rearing. He certainly does not pride himself greatly upon the distinguished connection his daughter has made, nor does he join his wife very fervently in her praises of their elegant son, Washington. Yet, with the stout animal courage that was in him from the beginning, he staves off the thought of such things. And in his great establishment upon the Avenue, or in his kingdom of Wall street, where the bank-clerks scrape and bow their reverence, he wears his dignity very grandly still. 
               The world of feeling was never very large for him, and age has not added to its bigness. Neither daughter nor son have opened any new avenues in that direction; and now, should some new trial come to probe the old cramped heart, which way shall my uncle Solomon look-through his gold-bowed spectacles-for sympathy? To the claret coach, or to the Countess Wilhelmina? 
               Well, my uncle Solomon gravely lifts those gold-bowed spectacles when the Count and his companion come in. The note-broker begged pardon for intrusion; he wished only to assure himself-of a matter he could hardly doubt-if the note he held in his hand was a good note? 
               Mr. Fudge took the paper, and waved the broker grandly to a chair. He brought down his gold spectacles-read the note-laid it down quietly. "It is not mine," said he, "it's a forgery." 
               The Count Salle advanced, with his ivory-headed stick under his arm. He had a year's accumulated revenge in his look. "It cannot be," said he, "for it is of your son." 
               "My son!" said Mr. Fudge, startled for a moment. 
               "Mr. Washington Fudge," said the broker, "presented the note for discount." 
               The old bank-officer nervously grappled the paper. "It shall be paid," said he. But, turning his eye upon the Count, he saw an expression in his face which subdued him. The note might be paid, indeed; but the crime, if crime it was-remained. 
               He caught at the hope of bargaining with the Count, for the honor of his son. He unfolded the paper again-very coolly. 
               "Ten thousand dollars-ten thousand"-- 
               It was too late: the animal strength was giving way, even if the money could be found. His voice seemed to fail him, and his eye wandered from the Count to the broker; his hand, too, dropped, and he fell back in his chair. They brought in some water from the outer office, and the news went out that Mr. Fudge was suddenly taken ill. The porter set off for a carriage; another messenger went for a physician. 
               He revived somewhat presently, and wished his son to be sent for. They took him home in a hackney cab. On the way he passed a claret coach, in which sat a lady in brocade, looking out very intently upon the passers along Broadway. Mr. Fudge saw the carriage, and knew it; he saw the brocade, and knew that, too; but the expression of his face did not change; he made no motion to stop. Why should he? 
               There was confusion in his great house upon the Avenue when he reached home. It was a thing so unheard-of for Mr. Fudge to come at such an hour of the day! The servants only pardoned it, when they learned that Mr. Fudge was taken really ill. 
               Washington came in shortly after, and entered his father's room-the family room, indeed; but Mrs. Fudge was not there. Mr. Fudge asked the physician, who had cautioned him against excitement of any kind, to leave him a little time alone with his son. 
               "Washington," said the old gentleman, "have I treated you well, my child?" 
               Washington was not prepared for this comparatively tender manner of the old gentleman; he was disturbed by it; he expected a row; he could only answer, "To be sure you have, father, always." 
               "Have I ever denied you any wish of yours, Washington?" 
               The son said he never had. 
                
               The old gentleman appeared to breathe with some difficulty; Washington arranged his pillows for him. He had never done such a thing before; and the very act seemed to soften both father and son. 
               "And, Washington," continued Mr. Fudge, now that he spoke more easily, "when you have wanted money, you have not found me unwilling to give it to you?" 
               "Good God! father," said the son, touched in earnest now by the old man's tone, "don't talk to me in that way!" 
               "Well, I won't, Wash," said the father; "but come here, nearer to me." 
               Washington came so near that the old gentleman took his hand. "Washington," said he, "tell me honestly-the note this morning-for ten thousand dollars-Wash-tell me-it was not-yours?" and the stately Mr. Fudge grasped nervously the hand he held in his. 
               Washington dropped on his knees-a new position for the elegant lad-and said only, in a voice choked more by the sight of the old gentleman's emotions, than by any regrets of his own, "Will you forgive me, father?" 
               I think the father would have forgiven him-there, in the family chamber, where the son was born, who kneeled by him now; I think he lifted his other hand, as if to draw his recreant son more closely to him, in memory, as it were, of old and dear affections; but his strength failed him. The nerves of his arm were palsied. His head inclined to one side. He murmured something unintelligibly, and Washington lifted his face to catch it more nearly; but there was no understanding the drivelling words of the old man. The muscles of his cheek had given away; his jaw drooped; the eye stared with a ghastly expression; and he had no power to change the fixed lids. 
               Yet he tried to talk, but it was in vain; the brain even seemed touched; and he knew not that his words were indistinct. 
               Mrs. Fudge, the stately lady, who had just returned from her morning drive, came into the room with a great rustle of brocade, and found the old man, her husband, a hopeless paralytic, and Washington stupefied beside him. 
                
               Sumbre hints of some cruel misfortune which had befallen the Fudge family, ran round the town. The creditors pressed their claims; the long cherished stocks were forced upon the market; and in forty-eight hours after the events I have detailed, my uncle Solomon was declared bankrupt. 
                
               Through regard to the infirm state of Mr. Fudge's health, some measure of indulgence was shown; and the shame and dishonor of the son escaped for the time publicity. A morning-paper, indeed, in the hope of levying a small tribute from the wreck, intimated that "a recent case of fraud, in which one of the parties was of high connection, was attracting remark in the circles of Wall street; but we forbear at present the mention of names." 
               Mr. Fudge, however, was quite beyond the reach of any such appeals to his honor or his pride. His nurse and his gruel were more to him now than the sneers of any morning papers. Thus the Count failed in his last effort to win tribute from his broken-down father-in-law. 
               Wilhelmina came home to mingle her tears and ejaculations with those of the old lady; but there was very little of self-reliance in either to cheer the house, or to give comfort to the desolate old man; least of all, when they learned, by the vigorous action of the creditors, that all tokens of wealth would be taken from them, and that the staff on which they had leaned so long was broken hopelessly. 
               Dr. Muddleton sends them a copy, prettily bound in green and gilt, of his "Sermons in Affliction." But he never reached their hearts with his tongue; he can hardly hope to do it with his pen. The pew is sold, with the pink reflections from the chancel-window, for the benefit of the creditors. The house upon the Avenue is shortly to pass into other hands. 
               The Pinkertons do not make consolatory visits; but draw the proud moral that people should not live beyond their means. 
               Only little Kitty, from far away Newtown, living in the Bodgers house, offers them a home with her if they choose; and Mrs. Fleming is a sister once more to Phbe. Jemima sends a pot of sweetmeats for uncle Solomon; and Bridget, more than ever-with this view before her of the vanity of carriages and of Avenue houses-is disposed to accept the attentions of the opposite retired grocer; and to content herself with a humble and, may be, useful life. 
             
             
                
               XXXVII. AN OLD RESIDENT OF NEWTOWN. 
                
                   
                     
                        "And justice is turned away backwards, and judgment standeth afar off; for truth is fallen in the street, and equity cannot enter."
                      
                     ISAIAH. 
                   
                
               HARRY FLINT, in his new home, far away on the Pacific coast, has gained strength once more; and with strength, courage, and action and success. The letters which have come to him from time to time have not been so pleasantly colored as he could have wished; more especially the amiable sisterly one, which bade him hope (if he would only come back) to stand as groomsman for Mr. Adolphus Quid; but yet, they had weaned him more and more from the old home ties, and shaken off from his manly heart altogether any remnant weaknesses which fed his sentiment and diverted his force from the great battle of the world, in which he hoped to win both name and fame. 
               There had grown up a pride, indeed, in his manly loneliness, which may, perhaps, have been corrupted by selfishness, but which had, after all, that unity of direction, and concentration of energies which insured success. He reads, with a swift unconcern, all which the garrulous old aunt tells him of the gossip of Newtown. He cares very little about the fine carriage, which fills a fine paragraph, and which drives regularly to the Bodgers' door. In idle hours, he even cultivates a familiarity with those books which speak of the tender passion as a weakness; he has considerable appreciation of their authors; he thinks they must be men of sense. He rather pities young Quid, who he hears is so far gone. Of course he pities Kitty, too; but thinks (in his letter) that it will be a nice match. 
               He speaks in a business-like way of possibly marrying, "some of these days," a rich Spanish Seora of California, and wants to know what little Bessie thinks of that? 
               Bessie, of course, is horrified, and so is the aunt; and both think he must have grown very mercenary in that terrible San Francisco. But when the letter comes from the old aunt, detailing the harsh scandal about Harry Flint, and his forgery, the young man is waked again, and finds he cares more about the good or bad opinion which may be had of him, in the old home village, than he had once believed. I think even that, with all his sentiment rooted up and thrown away-as he believes-he yet feels a very quick-acting and sensitive pride about the opinion which Miss Kitty or Mrs. Quid (as the case may be) entertains of his character. 
               As for any tenderness of feeling on her part, he snaps his fingers at that; of course he does. But even she, shall never despise him, or think lightly of his honor. I think he would have even suffered a reproach and accusation so unreasonable to brood upon the benighted minds of the Bivinses, and other town's-folks; perhaps he would have been careless of Mrs. Fleming's opinion; but that Kitty, for whom he had once cherished a dreamy, boyish sentiment-commemorated even now with dried roses-that she should hear men call him criminal, is what he will not suffer. She may think lightly if she chooses of his sentiment (as, indeed, he does now-a-days himself), but as for his manly honesty, she shall have no triumph there, whether as Mrs. Quid or Kitty. She shall never have two opinions on that subject. 
               Harry Flint, therefore, prepares, though at great inconvenience to his business, to go home and make his character good; he will at least show the good gossips of Newtown that he ran away from no exposure, of whatever sort. 
               The aunt, and Bessie, who was indeed, ailing, and far thinner than when he left the country, receive him with open arms. And they tell him, little by little, all the news; how the old Squire, only a day or two after he had gone, was drowned in such a terrible way; and how there had been a great many rumors about the property; and how a strange lady from over seas had claimed it as hers, and afterwards gone; and how Mrs. Fleming had sold her old home, and come to live in the Bodgers' house, of which Mr. Quid had kindly given her the rental; and how the young man had been very attentive; and how the old lady and all were so delighted with it; and how it was said he had proved false, and Kitty was so cast down, but bore it so bravely; and how finally there was a story that he (Harry) (which they never believed for one second) had forged a will, that gave the property to Kitty. All these things were told him by the good old lady, interrupted at quite frequent and irregular intervals, by her repeating (as if he doubted it) how glad she was that he had come. 
               Harry made an early call upon Mrs. Fleming and Kitty-as was very proper. They were "extremely glad" to see him, both mother and daughter; and "looking so well, too, for they had heard of his having been very ill." Kitty was very courteous and very dignified; Harry did not allow enough for a change of a year and more. He should have remembered that he had put on considerable dignity himself. I have no doubt in my own mind but that he was more studiedly courteous than the young lady herself. Of course he made no allusion to their benefactors, the Quids; it was a sore subject-not for him, of course-but for them. 
               I think the womanly dignity of Kitty rather worried him. As a lawyer of reputation in a far-away city, who had cultivated considerable energy of purpose, who rather smiled now-a-days at all weaknesses of sentiment, and looked indifferently upon young women generally, I think he had counted upon a little more of timidity and awe-so to speak-on the part of the young country lady. And his worry was all the greater, because-as he remarked to himself, as he strode between the hollyhock blossoms to the gate-she had retained all her old good looks, with a little softening of the livelier colors in her face, which even added to her prettiness. Had he been in young Quid's place, he thought he would hardly have jilted her; and yet he didn't know-so many things were to be taken into account. 
                
               It is very odd how a man will play the knave and liar to his own heart, and yet if a neighbor but hint at his falsity, he contests the matter like a hero. Harry Flint determined in his own mind to show the most hypocritical and stolid indifference to Miss Fleming and all her affairs; and yet he worked himself into quite a tempest of indignation about the idle gossip of the village. 
               This last was very useless, indeed, for the bare sight of Harry's honest, manly face, in the street of the little town, disarmed all reproach, and satisfied the old ladies, one and all, that they had done him wrong. This, however, was not enough for Harry. He was determined to trace the matter to its source; and succeeded, indeed, in reducing the charge to the reports of Miss Bivins and her respectable parent, the Justice of the Peace. The equanimity of this old gentleman was considerably disturbed by a threat of instant prosecution on the part of his old office-clerk, who showed a vigor and a familiarity with legal affairs which would certainly never have ripened to such a degree, in the office by the meeting-house corner. 
               Squire Bivins volunteered indeed full explanation of the grounds of his suspicion, and his regrets that it should have become a subject of village talk. Harry, who was really of a forgiving nature, listened ened kindly to his old master in law; put him right on several points; gave him to understand what errors he had labored under; and ended with assuring him that the signature of Mr. Bodgers was a genuine one, and that he had remarked at the time its unlikeness to the usual writing of the Squire, who, he might remember, was suffering from a disabled arm. 
               Squire Bivins felt a pride in the energetic, manly cast of his old clerk, and was rejoiced more than any creature in the town to find the matter set right, and the character of friend Harry made good. He begged that he would come to his house to tea, and assured him that Mehitabel would be deeply grieved to find that she had carelessly done him the injury by repeating such suspicions. He hoped Harry would allow her the favor of excusing herself in person. 
               Mehitabel cooked her apology in a prodigious plate of muffins, set off with a pot of last year's jelly. 
               In the course of the tea-drinking, conversation turned very naturally upon the Quids. Miss Mehitabel thought that the young man had behaved very ungenerously; for herself, she had foreseen his falsity, and warned Miss Kitty long before matters had become so serious (she did not say how serious). She pitied Kitty from her heart; but thought she had brought it on herself; indeed, by Mehitabel's account, she was very angry with her interference, and received young Quid afterwards with greater fondness than ever. The old Squire, in confirmation of Mehitabel's statement, gave a ludicrous account of his interview with Mrs. Fleming, in which he ventured to hint that the young suitor was mercenary in his views. 
               He thought he should not interfere in any love matter again. 
               Harry ate his muffins with a poor relish. 
               "And it was odd," continued the Squire, "that they, so quiet people, should have taken just such a fancy as that; now, I should have thought," and a genial smile lit up the old Squire's lip, "that an honest, sensible young fellow, like-Harry Flint, for instance, would have been much more to their taste." 
               "Oh! yes!" exclaimed Mehitabel; and thereafter blushed in an extraordinary manner, at her own enthusiasm. 
               Harry Flint ate his muffins with a poor relish. 
               Finally the talk turned upon the will, and upon the chances the Flemings might have of recovery. Harry Flint, if for no other purpose than to make public declaration of his having witnessed the instrument, was anxious to see the matter forced to an issue. There was an entry in the will in favor of the village authorities of Newtown, and in this interest Mr. Flint might safely exert himself without trenching upon his indifferent humor with respect to the Flemings. 
               Squire Bivins, moreover, at the suggestion of Harry, took an early occasion to call upon the general legatee, Miss Kitty, and to consult with her about taking necessary measures for bringing the affair to trial. 
               It was very droll, "very droll indeed," said Squire Bivins, but Miss Kitty did not wish to meddle at all in the matter. They had accepted favors from Mr. Quid; they were even now living in the house to which he held legal claim. Mr. Quid had generously been the first to make known the will, and to place it in the hands of Mr. Bivins. He had already made communication of these things to Mrs. Fleming, and had been liberal in his professions of regard. 
               In short, there were various reasons-perhaps more than I have named-why Kitty, with a strange delicacy, without absolutely opposing any action for establishing a will (which by Mr. Bivins' own account, was legally incomplete), did not wish to be engaged in the affair. 
               "It's great nonsense in the girl," said Mr. Bivins, and I think I should have agreed with him. 
                
               Harry Flint bit his lip. He thought she must have loved him very much. 
               The scruples of Mrs. Fleming were, however, more easily subdued. The case was arranged under the joint management of Squire Bivins and Mr. Harry Flint. The rumor which would get about, that the claimants under the will bore a bitter grudge against the heir-at-law, and that the solitary witness to the instrument and principal instigator of the suit was a wooer of Miss Kitty, did not at all contribute to the success of the cause. The plaintiffs even were disheartened; the argument was poorly conducted. On the other hand, the defence was clever and vigorous, and nobody seemed surprised at the speedy decision of the court, which threw out the will, as being informal and utterly worthless. 
               The decision was legal, perhaps; but it seems to me that it was very unjust. Indeed, I am inclined to think there is a great distinction oftentimes between law and right; the same distinction obtains, in the opinion of many people, between lawyers and thoroughly honest men. 
               Mr. Quid, senior, in a moment of enthusiasm, proposed to re-confer the life-lease of the old Bodgers' mansion upon Mrs. Fleming and daughter; but Mrs. Fleming, under the advices, I daresay, of Kitty, declined to accept this overture; and gathering together the remnants of her little property, she prepared to go out from the Bodgers' house, and to occupy, with Kitty, a humble cottage in the village. 
               Mrs. Dyke, relenting somewhat from her usual dignity, hoped Kitty "would soon come back again, and 'of right,' to the old house." 
               But Kitty, thinking of Mr. Quid, and wounded at the thought, said, "the time would be very far off." 
               The little village troop of girls followed her to the cottage, and made it joyous with their voices; and newly-planted vines, taken from the old stock at home, grew fastly in the sunshine, and braided shadows on the cottage-porch. There was one voice wanting to the school choir; it was that of Bessie Flint. She was ill. 
               Except for this, Harry Flint would before that time have been again on his way to his home by the Pacific. But there was something in the eye and in the voice of Bessie which bade him stay-to the end. It seemed to him that she was going. The physician gave little hope; so he waited. It was a dreary stay for him-now by the sick-bed; now in the dull village street; now walking in the wood. 
               Miss Fleming sometimes came to the house where Bessie lay ill, on little errands of kindness, and the sufferer always greeted her heartily; and the old aunt was never tired of speaking her praises. She wondered very much why Harry took such pains to avoid her. 
               But Harry said to himself, walking in the wood, "Let me have a fresh heart and a whole one, or none at all. 
               So it seems, that with all his manliness, his sentiment is not wholly gone. There are few men indeed, in whom it does not sometimes break out, whatever professions they may make. 
             
             
                
               XXXVIII. AN IRISH FRIEND APPEARS. 
                
                   
                     
                        "Our best friends oftentimes wear homely clothes; and the fine speech of a gallant is less worth than a poor boy's bluntness."
                      
                     OLD SAYING. 
                   
                
               MR. BIVINS was sitting over his office-stove, reflecting on the untoward course of events-wondering what disposition Mr. Quid would make of his Newtown estates-wondering if the will could not, after all, be established, in so far as related to personal property-when he was startled by a smart little rap at the door; and who should appear, in answer to the summons to enter, but our short-haired friend, Mr. Blimmer's Irish boy! 
               "'Squire Bivins, b'lieve, sir?" said Jerry, very promptly. 
                
               "Yes, my name is Bivins," said the Squire; "what do you want, my lad?" 
               "I've come about that will, sir," (very promptly). 
               "About what will, my boy?" 
               "Bodgers versus Quid," said the boy. 
               "Oh! ho!" said Bivins, growing somewhat interested; "and what do you know about it?" 
               "Pretty considerable," said Jerry. 
               "Well, my lad, let's hear." 
               The boy, with his characteristic promptitude, put his thumb to his nose, and gave his fingers a dexterous twirl: "There's them that would pay me to hold my tongue," said he. 
               "Oh! ho! and so you want me to pay you to talk;" and the Squire, after reflection, slipped a half dollar before the boy. 
               "It's not enough," said Jerry; "it's cost a dollar coming out here to Newtown, and if I sponge, I s'pose I lose my place, which's as good as three dollars to me." 
               The Squire was not a man to spend money recklessly, especially in so awkward a case as this had proved. 
               "You can tramp, my lad," said he. 
               "Very good, sir," said Jerry, "but if you wants to hear o' Blimmer's boy, I'll be about the tavernstable till four o'clock." 
                
               The name of Blimmer arrested the Squire's attention. 
               "What's the will," said he, "you can tell me about, my lad?" 
               "Bodgers' will," said Jerry. 
               "What makes you think it's the Bodgers' will?" 
               The boy made his previous expressive sign, followed by rapid, lawyer-like queries of this sort: "Didn't the old hos come near burning on the Eclipse?-and wasn't old Bodgers abroad?-and didn't old Bodgers say to the Governor-says he --? But I s'pose it's no matter; not if you knows all about it now." 
               "I'll tell you what," said the Squire, now thoroughly interested, and drawing a ten-dollar note from his pocket, "if you tell me enough to make the will good, you shall have this note." 
               "Half down?" said the boy. 
               Mr. Bivins hesitated; but his curiosity got the better of him, and he yielded to the lad's wish. "Now, then," said he, "let's hear what you know about the will?" 
               "Well," said Jerry, coolly putting the five-dollar note in his waistcoat-pocket, "they've burnt it!" 
               "Why, you precious scoundrel!" said Bivins, "don't you know it's all up, then?" 
                
               "Not exactly," said the boy, "for they made a copy, and I put my fist to it." 
               Mr. Bivins took the document from his drawer to test the boy. "Is this your copy?" said he. 
               Jerry looked scrutinizingly at the names; shook his head in a puzzled manner. "No," said he, "this is the bony-fidy document; they must have made a mistake between 'em, and burnt the copy." 
               And thereupon the boy, in reply to the queries of the Squire, gave a detailed statement-how he had done special copying on one occasion for Mr. Blimmer, particularly a great many proper names and such like, and ended with making a "fac-smile" of the name belonging to the will; how, when the gentleman came again, who took the copy, he rested himself a bit outside the office-door, occasionally looking through the key-hole; and how he saw the will, then and there, burnt up, as he supposed, and heard the whole story about it, and saw the cash paid over to Blimmer; and how he heard them talk of "fighting shy" of Squire Bivins, who lived in Newtown; and how he himself, for a long time, wasn't able to find out where Newtown was, not having discovered that name, nor Mr. Bivins's, in the "Drectry;" and how he thought he might make an honest penny by coming out to tell just how matters ters stood, when they might do as they liked, and settle it all among 'em. 
               The Squire took careful notes of all this; he advises the boy to "keep on hand" for the other five, and to have a sharp watch on Blimmer. 
               It is needless to say that this communication gives a new aspect to the state of affairs. Heretofore Mr. Quid has seemed to wear a commendable generosity throughout the proceedings; his fraud in the case is a noteworthy fact. His error, in respect to Mr. Blimmer's copy of the will, explains in a happy manner to Squire Bivins his air of benevolence. 
               The details prove equally satisfactory to Mrs. Fleming, to whose cottage the Squire now pays frequent visits. 
               Having placed Irish Jerry in a secure situation, out of the reach of Mr. Blimmer, Squire Bivins opens a cautious series of negotiations with that individual; and by an amicable arrangement, to the effect that the dues upon the Blimmersville lots, now standing in the name of the Quids, should be paid up, out of the Bodgers property, the friendly interference of the proprietor of Blimmersville is secured. Indeed that talkative gentleman professes to be greatly rejoiced at the accident which has brought to light the fraud of the Quids, and makes every atonement in his power for his connivance therein. He vows that the Blimmersville property has not prospered since the purchase of the Quids. He expresses a determination to restore the church-lot to its original destination; and is every day on the lookout for an enterprising clergyman to build up a parish in that village. 
               The testimony of Mr. Blimmer to the receipt of the will from the hands of Mr. Bodgers himself-who delivered it to him under solemn mention of the fact that it contained his last will and testament-was an important fact; so important, indeed, that an eminent lawyer of the city declared the Fleming interest to be of the safest possible character, and volunteered services for the plaintiff, with fees contingent upon the success of their application. 
               Harry Flint, consulted on occasions by the Squire, gives his advice freely, and engages to do all in his power towards pushing the affair to a successful issue. But yet there is not much warmth in his action; his indifference to the Flemings appears almost to be growing into pique. Where there is dignity on one side and distance on the other, it is apt to grow to this; more especially if there be some remnant of early warm feeling glowing under the dignity and the distance. 
               Besides this, Harry's duties and affections seem now all centered around the bed of his suffering Bessie. A sister's arm could not be kinder or more gentle than his. A sister's step could not be lighter, when the sick one sleeps. 
               The aunt is watchful as a mother; and Kitty will find her way to the sick chamber at times, but oftenest when she knows that Harry is away, and they will not meet. Then she lingers for hours together by the bed-side. 
               Sometimes Harry and Bessie talked of Kitty, whom the little girl loved almost as fondly as she loved her brother, and was never tired of saying how much she loved her, and how badly she thought of that villain, Mr. Quid. 
               "She is a very nice person," Harry was used to say, only to humor Bessie. 
               "Nice! Harry! oh! she is perfect; you ought to know her better, Harry." 
               "Why so, Bessie?" for the topic, after all, does not seem ungrateful. 
               "Because-because, Harry, and yet," said Bessie, puzzled, "perhaps it's as well not." 
               What can the little girl mean? "Did you ever think, Bessie," says Harry, puzzled in his turn, "that I liked her very much?" 
               "Sometimes," said Bessie. 
               "And you thought it foolish?" 
                
               "Not foolish." 
               "Useless, then." 
               "Perhaps so," says Bessie, reluctantly. 
               "Why?" said Harry, piqued, perhaps. 
               "From what she said to me, Harry," 
               "When, Bessie?" and Harry seems to be eager in questioning. 
               "When I asked her once." 
               "What did you ask her, Bessie?" (his eagerness appears to increase). 
               "Whether," said Bessie, "she loved my brother Harry?" 
               "What did she say, Bessie?" Harry's tone is remarkably quick. 
               "She was angry, Harry, and turned very-very red, and asked why I talked so strangely, and came near crying, and begged me never to talk so again." 
               If I had been in Mr. Harry's place, I think I should have felt flattered by such a story. Lovers they say are blind; but a sensible fellow like Harry, perfectly indifferent to sentiment, and to young ladies generally, ought certainly to have shown more legal shrewdness, and not gone on harping in his thought upon the old bugbear of Adolphus Quid, and wondering how Kitty could ever have loved him so much, and feeling very sure in his own mind that, having loved him so much, she could never love anybody else-most of all, himself-so unlike as he was to that gay gentleman! 
               In short, he made himself very killingly distant to Kitty, as a revenge upon her, and gave himself the air of a man who thought very little about her, and really thought very little of anybody else, except poor Bessie, whose end is near! 
             
             
                
               XXXIX. TWO CASES ARE BROUGHT TO A DECISION. 
                
                   
                     
                        "He shall keep the simple folk by their right, defend the children of the poor, and punish the wrong-doer."
                      
                     PSALMS, ixxxi. 4. 
                   
                
               THE paralytic old man, Mr. Solomon Fudge, has been removed to a small house in the village of Newtown. It is cheaper living in the country, and the physician (perhaps doubtful of his fees) has recommended country air. Mrs. Phbe chafes greatly at the narrowed house (she will have a narrower one in the end), and looks down, even in her poverty, upon the vulgar town's-folk. 
               Mrs. Fleming and Kitty are watchful and kind, and their brightening hopes do not break up the old ties of kindred. Indeed, Mrs. Solomon talks more often of the approaching trial, than they. Perhaps, she founds hopes upon it, of seeing one day again a claret carriage in the family. 
                
               Squire Bivins is busy all day long with papers and witnesses, and what not-growing very proud of his business connection with an eminent attorney of the city, and brushing up his wig, from time to time, for a visit to "the Hall," or to the grand Wall street office of his colleague. 
               Kitty, seeming indifferent to the issue of events, relieves her school-hours with visits to the bedside of Bessie, or with a reading of the morning papers to the old paralytic uncle; for he can understand voices, though he can say nothing intelligibly himself; yet he stammers about the "will," and the "trial," and "Bodgers," in a pitiable way. 
               The Countess, his daughter, sometimes ventures upon a visit, but the old gentleman seems to take little comfort in his daughter; he certainly never did before her marriage, and there is no more reason for it now. Washington, for a time, was subdued into real tenderness; and for weeks after the fearful stroke which his own action had drawn upon the father's head, he hung about his chair and his room, learning little offices of charity and kindness, which were unknown to his earlier years. But he wearied of this; the appetites he had fed so long were stronger than the sudden impulses which quickened a thought of duty. The old man missed him at first, for his heart had warmed towards him as suddenly as his affliction had come. He prated sadly about his absence. But Washington did not hear, or if he heard, it was easy not to understand his gibberish; and he only came now at such far away intervals that the father scarce knew his son. 
               Meantime, the trial drew on. Mr. Brazitt was retained by the Quids. He discovered strong points in their case yet. Blimmer and his evidence were good subjects for his art. He liked to dissect the character of a man who had sold his trust, first to his client, and then, for larger pay, doubtless, to the plaintiffs. It was a pretty scheme for raising funds, in the proprietor of a stagnant township. He thought Blimmersville would not grow under such auspices. He feared he had gone too far. He didn't think the proposed church would save him. He gave a severe cross-questioning to the boy, Jerry; he wished to know if he had not received little dainties from Mr. Blimmer; he wished to know how long he had been in his pay; he thought it must be a curious office-door, through which so much could be seen and heard; he was particular about the size of the key-hole. 
               Then, as regarded the document itself, of which this enterprising village proprietor had effected, as it were, a double sale, there was an extraordinary fact in relation to it, to wit, that the most intimate adviser of Mr. Bodgers had declared the signature a forgery: it was very droll; indeed, as he would take the liberty of demonstrating to the court, the signature was wholly unlike the handwriting of the deceased gentleman. And it happens, naturally enough, that the legal adviser of the deceased gentleman at once fastens his suspicions upon his office clerk as a party to the forgery of the paper. It appeared that the suspected clerk was a suitor for the hand of the legatee-an extraordinary coincidence. 
               Now, what happens? The repulsed suitor takes himself out of the way, and says nothing; but, after the conspiracy is ripe between our village proprietor and the Newtown Justice, he suddenly comes back, threatens the amiable Justice with a prosecution, and induces him to change his mind, and to swear that the signature is good. 
               An Irish boy is suborned to make observations through a key-hole, and swears that a certain will is burnt; but, on arranging stories with the Justice of Newtown, is of opinion that it was not a will, but a copy of a will! 
               "These are certainly extraordinary tales," says Mr. Brazitt. And the attorney goes on to make himself eloquent in defence of his client, against the accusations of fraud; he recites the charge against him of having paid a large sum of money for the privilege of burning the written copy of a will, and the equally astounding charge of having, with an honesty wholly accidental, placed the alleged true instrument in the hands of the plaintiff. 
               "Never was there a set of stories more absurd," says Brazitt; "enough in themselves surely to throw great discredit upon the instrument, and upon all the parties concerned." 
               "Next," continues Brazitt, "under the supposition-a very extraordinary one, may it please your honors-that this instrument is genuine; that the deceased gentleman at that precise epoch of time did have a lame arm, which compelled a total change in his style of writing; that Mr. Flint did attest it, without once mentioning to the old gentleman the necessity of a second witness; that Mr. Bodgers did chance to have it in his pocket upon a certain lamentable occasion; that he did deliver it in form to Mr. Blimmer; that Mr. Blimmer did make a bargain to deliver it to my client; that my client did, with unheard-of stupidity, make further bargain for the destruction of a copy, and, finally, deliver the original into the hands of the plaintiff-what is it worth? 
               "Is it executed according to law?" (in a very solemn tone). "And, if not, do the court propose to make an exception in its favor, in view of the extraordinary net-work of stories-of bargain and sales; of burnings and key-holes; of forging and lame arms, which accompanies the verification of this document?" 
               And Mr. Brazitt wiped the perspiration from his forehead, and sat down. 
               For the Fleming interest, it was urged: 
               First, in respect to the attesting witness, that his character had been always unimpeachable; that as he left the country previous to the loss of Mr. Bodgers, there could have been no object in forging the paper in question; and that furthermore, the allegation of his having been a suitor for the hand of Miss Fleming was utterly unfounded. 
               Second, as regarded the discrepancy between the signature to the will and the usual handwriting of Mr. Bodgers, it was shown by abundant testimony, independent of the subscribing witness, that the deceased gentleman was at the time suffering from a disabled arm; letters of even date, under his hand, exhibited the same discrepancy. The testimony of Mr. Bivins was full in respect to the body of the will, drawn up by him under the advices of Mr. Bodgers, and demonstrating his intentions with respect to the legatee; and finally, the memoranda produced to the court, and attested by Mrs. Dyke, showed conclusively that he had, at some time not far from the date of his death, caused his will to be drawn up and executed. 
               Third, with respect to Blimmer, there could be no doubt of his having been in company with Mr. Bodgers when he was last alive; a casual notice had appeared in the papers of only the following day, and before concert could have been arranged, that he had received from the deceased, commissions of importance. The defendant even did not deny interviews with him upon matters connected with the estate. What were those interviews about, and what could the important commission be, unless the will in hand? Or, if Mr. Quid did not receive the instrument from that source, whence did he receive it? If not from Mr. Bodgers himself, whence could Blimmer have received the will? And if from Bodgers himself, with what reason could the paper be counted a forgery? 
               Fourth, with respect to the execution of the will: The law indeed required two witnesses. There were, however, exceptional cases, in which so-called nuncupative wills were sound. Such were the only testaments of mariners dying at sea, or of soldiers on the field of battle. 
               The spirit of the exception was clear; indeed the famous statute of Charles the Second's time, for prevention of frauds, and quoted by all law-writers, extended the exception in this language: "No nuncupative will is good except" (war cases follow), "or the party be surprised with sickness on a journey, or from home, and dies without returning to his dwelling." 
               The deceased gentleman, in the present instance, had intended-as shown by abundant proof-the actual disposition of the property under the will; it bore the attestation of an unimpeachable witness. The deceased, as his memorandum shows, was not quite certain if a single witness was sufficient; he determined to inquire, and if need be, to supply the deficiency; he is, however, surprised upon a burning boat; he has the instrument with him; he delivers it to a party (bearing testimony to the fact), under the solemn avowal that it is his last will and testament; he, in fact, by that very averment, under the circumstances, made him a witness, and completed in equity the execution of the will. 
               Day after day, the trial drags on. It seems uncertain which way it will turn. Meantime, the little village school, with its choir of voices, goes on joyously. News come down, day after day, from the court; but they do not seem to disturb the quiet mistress of the cottage, where the hum of the children is heard, and where the birds twitter in the vine upon the porch. 
               It was on a summer evening, after the school had broken up for the day, that the tidings at length came that the case was decided, and decided in favor of the Flemings. 
               The court had given an order by which immediate recovery of all the Bodgers' property might be made, in the name of the successful party to the suit. 
               And Kitty was suddenly made rich. Old Mrs. Fudge, her worthy aunt, paid her a visit of gratulation, and kissed her affectionatly, and treated her almost as considerately as she had once treated the Spindles. Even the Countess Salle, from her unknown quarters in the city, sent her card to Kitty (with a crescent at the top), wishing her joy, and inviting herself to come and see her "dear Kitty" in the summer time, and sending the Count's regards. 
               Harry Flint called to say to Mrs. Fleming that he was glad of their good fortune; but he would not accept the old lady's invitation to remain to tea. 
               Indeed little Bessie was very badly; the fever had left her, but she was feeble. Harry had grown so weary with watching, that he fell asleep that very night with the little girl lying on his shoulder. 
                
               It was two hours after, when the aunt, who had grown nervously frightened, came in and found him sleeping, with the child-dead in his arms. 
               He was wakened by the cry of the old lady, and was bitterly affected when he knew how it was. He could not tell when the child died. She seemed to have leaned towards him, as if to speak; perhaps she feared to waken him, and so kept silent-always silent now! 
               Harry's heart had twined around that of Bessie lovingly. A little sister's affections, before they have found range in a home of their own making, warm up wonderfully those of a brother who is battling the world alone. Most of all, when parents are gone; and when the memory of father, and mother, and fireside, all centre in the one we call sister. 
               Harry lifted the hair from the temple of the dead girl, and kissed her, and went out. 
               When he saw her next she was in white, with a fresh flower in her hand, ready for the coffin. She was lying straightly and stiffly; had it not been for that, one would hardly have thought her dead. 
             
             
                
               XL. IN WHICH THE STORY ENDS. 
                
                   
                     
                        "I choose not my daughters should be married to earthly, covetous kindred, and of cities and towns of concourse beware: a country life and estate I like best for my children."
                      
                     PENN'S LETTER TO HIS WIFE. 
                   
                
               MISS KITTY FLEMING had really forgotten how many friends she had left behind her in the city, till the recent decision brought them to mind by cards, and letters, and visits in troops. A vast number of pleasant young ladies, of whom she never expected to hear again in the world, had been "long waiting for an occasion to write," and to tell her how dearly they were attached to her, and how very much they missed her from the town circles. 
               Among the other young people who found a recollection of their old intimacy pleasantly revived by the recent decision of the court, was Mr. Adolphus Quid. He set about a speculative comparison of the weazen-faced Miss Arabella Spindle, with the blooming country countenance of my cousin Kitty. He recalled his father's pleasant mention "that he might do worse." 
               Miss Spindle thought him less piquant than usual, and expressed herself to the effect "that he was very slow." 
               Mrs. Spindle said he was-very. 
               He turned his mind more and more in the direction of Newtown; and at length-it must have been ten days and more after the decision of the court-he turned his trotter in that direction. 
               It may be a source of surprise to many, that he would have made such a venture. But Adolphe was one of those happily-constituted young men-of whom the number is myriad-who never had a doubt of his powers of fascination. He never once questioned the fact of his holding undisputed empire still, over the affections of the innocent Miss Fleming. He had regaled himself, not infrequently, upon the thought of her misery under his recent neglect; he regarded his present disposition to renew advances as an act of clemency; he looked upon her fortune as a probable and sufficient reward. 
                
               Now it happened that just before Mr. Quid drove up gaily to the cottage door where the village school was held, another friend of ours, Mr. Harry Flint, had gone in to fulfil certain last commissions, and to make his final adieux before leaving his native town for ever, for a home upon the shores of the Pacific. 
               The commissions were small; among others, a little paquet that Bessie had put in his hand the day before her death, to be given to Kitty: she said it contained her book of prayer. 
               It was a sombre interview; for Harry had not shaken off his grief, and could not; and the sympathy of those he met and with whom he parted was deep and tender. The next day morning he was to leave; he had told them this, and was hurrying the words of parting, when Mr. Quid entered. 
               Mrs. Fleming, the plain country lady, was sadly embarrassed, and the cheek of Kitty took on a suddenly deep scarlet tinge. 
               Harry Flint was watchful of this-sadly watchful; but he assumed a quick composure, and bade them a sudden adieu-mother and daughter-and left the cottage for ever. 
               The old grievance of the love of Kitty for the stranger from the city, flashed upon him anew, and added a pang, it may be, to the grief that shrouded his desolate home. I do not think that he acknowledged this even to himself. I am sure he would have denied it stoutly. But still, through the dark cloud of his home affliction that lay heavy on him, there did flash fitful thoughts of the inconstancy of women, of the vanity of all earthly ties; and gleams, more fitful still, of the selfish pride with which, and with which only, he would face henceforth the world, and conquer a name and die! 
               He did not know that Kitty, trembling, with only the weight of that little Book of Prayer in her hands, withdrew herself suddenly-never to meet him again-from the confident Adolphus. And in her chamber, the impatient walk from door to window and from window to door, the eager struggles with a feeling which at length gained mastery and spent itself in tears, told plainly that Kitty, with all her new wealth, and with no dead sister to mourn over, had yet her share of the trials which come some day near to all of us. 
               Kitty opened the paquet: she found between the leaves of the book a withered flower; she knew it by the faded ribbon that tied the stem. Bessie had written upon a slip of paper, in pencil: "I send you back a flower which you gave long ago to Harry. He will be sorry to lose it, but it is not right he should keep it, since all is at an end between you. How I wish it were not so!" 
               Kitty kept the flower in the book, and the slip of paper on which Bessie had written. And she found comfort in the half line of Bessie's: "He will be sorry to lose it!" 
               When Mr. Quid drove back to town (his trotter never made better time) he tried to think that the pinched face of Miss Arabella Spindle was, after all, prettier than the sad one of Miss Fleming; and he hummed some lines from Sheridan (for he was read in the play-writers) about 
                      
                        "I ne'er could any lustre see 
                        In eyes that would not look on me." 
                     
                  
                
               Accident detained Harry Flint over the next day. No one knew, however, that he had not gone. It is not pleasant to say adieu twice: he remained throughout the day at the cottage of his aunt. 
               As night fell, a soft summer's night, with crimson-tinted clouds hanging late and high upon the sky, he set off to repeat one adieu again. It was no mortal that he sought; only a leave-taking with the spirit of his dead sister. For this, he went to the grave-yard where her body lay. The moon had come up, and threw the shadow of a little copse of cedars upon the mound. He did not see until he came very near, that some one was lingering by the grave. 
               Sympathy is a very quick bond of the affections and the heart of Harry warmed towards the stranger who shared his grief; nor did he relent when he found in his fellow-mourner his old friend Kitty. 
               She would have slipped away unnoticed even now, if it were possible; for she had come with Bessie's book in her hand, only to say a prayer at her grave. 
               But Harry called after her. 
               "I thought you were gone," said she. 
               Harry explained that he had been delayed. He was glad, he said, it had happened so, if it were only to learn that there were others who mourned with him. 
               "I do," said Kitty, and in a tone so rich and earnest, that Harry was glad of the twilight to hide the tear which came in his eye blindingly. 
               He thanked her, in a kinder tone than she had heard from him in many a day. 
               "You go away soon?" said she inquiringly. 
               "To-morrow;" and added, bitterly, "there is little to keep me here." 
               Kitty trembled; she knew not if it were best to go or to stay. She ventured to say, "You have friends left among us, Harry." 
                
               "I have little need of friends now," returned he, with a proud sorrow in his tone. 
               "You have need of friends," said Kitty, her girl's heart warming in her, "we all have need of them." And, emboldened by her own tone and truth, she told him of what she had found in the book Bessie had given her, and of what she had written. She could not understand it wholly, nor wholly the distant manner he had guarded so long. She hoped they would be friends always-if it were only in memory of Bessie. 
               Harry's pride was half yielding; but he recovered himself and said, with an easy indifference (that hurt him keenly), "Oh! yes; always friends." And his foot played idly with the sod upon the grave. 
               "Good-bye!" said Kitty, "God bless you always!" and she turned to leave him. 
               Harry lifted his eye, and saw that she was earnest and tender in her parting. 
               He reached out his hand to take hers; he must speak. 
               "Kitty, I could wish to stay, but"--(the thought of the morning, and the morning visitor, crossed his mind) and he ended abruptly, "I cannot." 
               Kitty turned to leave him-this time with an assured air of womanly dignity, and yet with tenderness in her look. "Good-bye! Harry," repeated ed she; "since you go so soon, we shall hardly see you again." 
               He was conquered. "Kitty, can I stay?" said he, in a nervous tone. 
               "For shame, Harry!" and she said it very meaningly. 
               "And your visitor of this morning, Mr. --?" 
               "Well!" (is Kitty growing impudent?) 
               "Are you to become his wife, Kitty?" 
               "That is a very strange question?" says Kitty, with eyes wide open; but with a mischievous smile upon her lips that provokes Harry to ask a stranger question still-if she would become, what he had long dreamed might be, but feared could never happen, his own true wife?" 
               Kitty's eyes were not wide open now, or, if they were, he could not see it; and, in a tone by half less brave than before, she told him he might come for his answer to-morrow. 
               Here came Harry's turn to rebel: and with a quick courage he compelled a reply, before they had left the shade of the cedar-copse. 
               In short, it is my opinion that they went on talking after this in a very absurd manner; and that Kitty presently fell to crying, for no reason in the world. 
                
               Harry went with a light heart to his aunt's home; and he marched straight towards that old lady-looking very melancholy in her trimly plaited mourning-cap-and, without one word of warning, kissed her between the eyes. 
               Now, Harry, although he entertained a reasonable affection for the aunt, was not used to such demonstrations as this. 
               "God bless me!" said the old lady, in surprise, "what on airth is the matter with the boy?" 
               "Well, I'm to be married, aunt Peggy, that's all!" said Harry. 
               "For shame, Harry!" said the aunt. 
               "And you, aunt Peggy, will come and be our house-keeper." 
               "I'll do no such thing, master Harry!" 
               "Tut, tut!" 
               "I love you, Harry," continued the aunt, "but your wife!-no, Harry, you must live apart from me!" 
               "Tut, tut, aunt Peggy! suppose, now, you were to love her as much or more than myself?" 
               "I can't, and I shan't," said aunt Peggy, tartly. 
               "Not if it were"-- 
               "No matter who," said aunt Peggy. 
               "Not if it were little Kitty, your own Kit?" 
                
               "God bless me, Harry! is it true? will you marry Kitty?" 
               "I will," said Harry. 
               "And will she marry you?" 
               "She says she will," said he. 
               "I will go with you, Harry, wherever you like." 
               I don't think the wedding-cards were sent to the Quids, although they are connected with our family; nor do I think they were sent to the Pinkertons or the Spindles, although Mrs. Solomon Fudge suggested it, and thought they might be induced to come. 
               The two Misses Fudge came to the reception, and enjoyed it highly. Blimmer, too, was there, much to the surprise of Miss Jemima; and he took occasion to remark to Mr. Flint, that in case he thought of changing his residence, one or two highly eligible lots were still left in Blimmersville. 
               Mehitabel Bivins was present; although she had expressed her disapproval of the match, and knew it was a scheme of Harry Flint's from the beginning. 
               Mr. Bivins had ordered a new coat for the occasion, and flirted, people said, with aunt Peggy. I do not think this can be true; since I had occasion to observe that old lady seated beside my uncle Solomon (who was propped up with pillows in a corner-chair), and trying very hard to comprehend his broken twaddle about "Miss Kitty and Misser Fint." 
               Jerry, by special request of Kitty, was served with an extra-sized box of the wedding-cake, and is, I understand, to be installed as clerk in the office of Harry Flint, attorney-at-law. I am happy to observe, indeed, that this gentleman, unlike many who marry fortunes, has not given up his profession, or his disposition to work. 
             
             
                
               Supplementary Chapter. 
               TONY FUDGE TAKES HIS LEAVE. 
                
                   
                     
                        "Hoc sit premium in preceptis meis, ut demonstremus quem imitemur."
                      
                     CICERO (Crassus loquens). 
                   
                
                
                   
                     
                        Amongst all these personages I have tried to show whose course was best worth following.
                      
                     TRANSLATION, BY TONY FUDGE. 
                   
                
               IT is now about two years since I completed the foregoing record, and commenced its publication in that respectable old journal, the Knickerbocker Magazine. I have only a few obseavations to add. My health remains good, and I am, I fear, as susceptible to the influences of pretty women as I ever was in my life. I do not think that I appear any older. 
               The Count Salle lives, I scarce know where; but it must be in a retired quarter; and there are hints that he maintains himself and wife by improper practices; gambling is spoken of. I know nothing of it. I should say he was not a man for a family to boast of. 
               Mr. Pinkerton has failed, but occupies his old house. His wife is understood to be rich. 
               Mr. Jenkins, to whom I have casually alluded, continues to give suppers at his house in Paris, where he has decoyed a large number of the reduced French gentry. There was a report that he had succeeded in making an engagement of his daughter to a Count somebody, who was in straitened circumstances, but of one of the very first old families in France. I hope it is true. 
               Mr. Quid, senior, through the influence of Brazitt, has now a cheerful place in the "Customs," though I fear that, being a "soft," he may lose it. 
               Mr. Blimmer, still retaining his old interest and enthusiasm for Blimmersville, has I learn, made proposals to Mehitabel Bivins, and been accepted. 
               How oddly, to be sure, her long nose will look under a bridal-hat! I hope when she comes to have children of her own-if she ever has any-that she will show a little more charity to those of other people. 
               As for my aunt Solomon, she frets in her extravagant way still; frets about the Pinkertons living upon money which they owe; frets about the Count Salle, who is undutiful, and does not show her as much attention as a son-in-law should. She frets about Wilhelmina, who dresses shabbily, and makes no effort to avail herself of the distinguished connection she has formed. She lays the blame of her own failure upon the drivelling old man, whose mind is now beyond the reach her gibes. "If she could have managed the property, as she managed her household," she is accustomed to say, "things would have been different." 
               Perhaps they would. 
               As for the gentleman himself, his cravat is not so tidy as it used to be when he sat over his office-table in the Wall street bank, turning his gold-bowed spectacles end for end. 
               He sometimes mumbles out an observation or two about the "Dauphin stock" and the "dips," but less often than formerly. He is grown much quieter. The physician says he is failing. I see him sometimes hobbling about the street on my drives into that neighborhood, dragging his paralytic limb after him, and looking very vacantly upon the faces he meets. Nobody stands in awe of him now. 
               He insists upon going every Sunday to the parish church, though aunt Phbe objects to the noise he makes in clattering up the aisle. I am told, too, that he makes stammering efforts to say after the clergyman, "We have left undone those things which we ought to have done, and we have done those things which we ought not to have done, and there is no health in us." His feeble mind cannot follow any further, but he bows his head reverentially to the end. Mrs. Fudge, too, repeats this portion of the service very emphatically, to prevent listeners from catching the stammering voice of the old man. 
               There are people who think she might have a better reason. 
               Washington holds some position in connection with one of the down-town theatres, and has generously, on one or two occasions, favored me with tickets on nights of benefit. I cannot learn that he visits now either the Spindles or the Joneses. He is, however, still unmarried. 
               It is doubtful, I sometimes think, if I ever marry myself. If not, the Fudge name will very likely expire with this generation. But I am happy in being able to state with confidence, that a vigorous branch of our connection (though remote) is growing up in the country. 
               Flint is the name. 
               Mrs. Flint is as pretty a mother as you will often see. She looks something older, to be sure, than she did two years since; but I do not object to a look of that sort when there are young people in the house. 
               As for Harry-I call him Harry in a cousinly way-he is a lad in all his feelings still. 
               I sometimes go out to take tea at his cottage. I cannot deny that it makes me melancholy to see his bright, cheerful face over against the blooming one of Kitty. I scarce know why. 
               Then there is a little fellow with a bib around his throat, who sits in a high chair over opposite to me, and who seems to shake a warming at me every time he lifts his dimpled fist. They call him Truman; and judging from the attentions they show him, he seems as much a visitor as myself. However, I am not jealous. 
               They have promised to name their next boy after me. I hope he will make his appearance upon the theatre of the world sooner than the Blimmersville church. Indeed, I think he will. 
               I have promised to leave him my estate, consisting mainly of a share in the Society Library, a copy of Smollett's novels, and a pair of silver-mounted razors. 
               I wish I could leave the little fellow the cool philosophy with which I have witnessed these changes, and seen the vain pursuit of fashion recoil upon itself, and steady-working honesty prove its own reward. 
               This last, by the by, is the best American legacy a man can inherit. At least, that is my opinion. 
             
            THE END. 
         
       
   
