
    ----CITATION----
        Morford, Henry, (1823-1881). Turned From the Door .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC7286
    ----FULL TEXT----
         
       
          
             
            "The Governor's" Christmas Story. 
             
               TURNED FROM THE DOOR. 
             
            BY HENRY MORFORD Author of "SHOULDER STRAPS," "UTTERLY WRECKED," "OVER-SEA," &c. 
            
               NEW YORK: 
               THE AMERICAN NEWS COMPANY,  
                     Nos. 119 & 121 NASSAU STREET. 
                  
               
             
          
          
             
            THE RELIGIOUS PRESS ON THE SOUNDNESS & RELIABILITY OF THE Equitable Life Assurance Society. 
            One of the editors of that leading and most influential religious newspaper, the New York Evangelist, in the month of October, 1869, incited by certain remarks with reference to the soundness of Life Insurance Companies in the City of New York, made a through personal examination of the mode of doing business of the EQUITABLE LIFE ASSURANCE SOCIETY OF THE U.S., No. 92 BROADWAY, (After May, 1870, No.120 Broadway,) and a few extracts from his report, made in the Evangelist, issue of October 21st, 1869, furnish an instructive comment on the standing of that Society in the minds of observant and reliable business men: 
            "Among the largest companies in the United States is the EQUITABLE LIFE ASSURANCE SOCIETY, whose immense new building of solid granite towers up so grandly on the corner of Cedar Street and Broadway, Being ourselves insured in this Company, as well as elsewhere, we had the best reason for inquiring whether it was equally safe. We did not take any official report, but determined to investigate for ourselves. To this end we have spent some days in the offices of the Company, examining its way of doing business, and looking over its books and its securities. Having done this for our own satisfaction, we give the result for the satisfaction of our readers. *  *  The first point to be ascertained, In order to determine whether a company rests on a solid basis, is THE AMOUNT OF ITS FUNDS. *  * Our first inquiry, therefore, in regard to the EQUITABLE, was for the Assets of the Company. In reply, we were invited to examine them for ourselves and we found on personal inspection Bonds and Mortgages upon real estate amounting to $5,111,918-the latter being always loaned upon property of twice its value-and Bonds authorized by law, amounting to $1,177,418.47. These items, together with the value of real estate, moneys deposited with the Insurance Department at Albany, call loans, &c., made the gross assets of the Society, on the books of the Society on July 1, 1869, $9,599,069. To these large additions have constantly been made, so that we should judge the assets were rather over than under ten millions of dollars at the time we examined the same-so much solid property, every dollar of which is pledged for the payment of the amount issued to every policy-holder. With such large assets as we have described, the Company has ample means to pay all its losses. But the inquirer asks again 'what security have policy-holders that this vast sum will remain intact?' Of course this must depend partly upon the business capacity, fidelity and integrity of its officers. But, while in a Company like the EQUITABLE, where the Directors are men of the highest character, this fact alone would give assurance to its policy-holders, yet there are other checks and safeguards. Every department is under the most careful and vigilant control. First, there is a Finance Committee, consisting of six of the Directors, and the President and Vice-President, who hold meetings every two weeks, and all transactions relating to the finances of the Company must first secure their approval. Second, a Fiscal Committee is appointed at the close of each year, whose duty it is to examine every security, of whatever nature, held by the Company. Third, a Committee on Accounts, who meet at least once a month, and examine every charge, every receipt, or other voucher, and go through every account in detail. Fourth, a Committee on Insurance, who examine into all losses before they are paid. Fifth, an Agency Committee, who appoint all Agents, and scrutinize their accounts. We were snown the books in which these several Committees preserve the record of their meetings, and they bore evidence, in the regularity of their attendance, that these men were steadily at their posts, attending personally to their duties, an discharging them with conscientious fidelity. No one could examine this record as we did, without being convinced that the Directors of this Company, at least, are not content to leave its management in the hands of its salaried officers. Over and above all these checks and safeguards, there is a constant Government supervision. The result of this personal examination, although it has been somewhat laborious, has been worth all that it cost, since it has more than satisfied us as to the security of our own little investments, in the form of policies, which we have set aside as a sacred deposit for our families when we are gone." 
          
          
             
             
               TURNED FROM THE DOOR. 
               A Christmas Story for 1869-70. 
             
            BY HENRY MORFORD, Author of "SHOULDER STRAPS," "UTTERLY WRECKED," "OVER-SEA," &c. 
            
               NEW YORK: 
               THE AMERICAN NEWS COMPANY,  
                     Nos. 119 & 121 NASSAU STREET. 
                  
               
             
            1869. 
             
            Entered according to Act of Congress, in the year 1869, by HENRY MORFORD, in the Clerk's Office of the District Court of the United States for the Southern District of New York. 
            
               "THE ALDINE PRESS."-Sutton, Bowne & Co., 23 Liberty Street, N. Y.
             
          
       
      
         
            Turned from the door 
             
            TURNED FROM THE DOOR. 
             
               CHAPTER I. 
               The Stranger at the Door. 
               "Susan! who is that talking with you so long at the gate? If he has nothing special to say to you, or you, to him, I think that you might be better employed attending to your evening work." 
               "Please, ma'am, it is an old man, who wants me to ask you to give him a place to sleep to-night; and he won't go away, though I have told him that I knew you would not allow such a straggler-" 
               "God bless me! what was the word she used? 'Straggler!' It must have been spoken especially for me!" and, to the infinite astonishment of his temporary hostess, Col. Richard Mowry sprang from his chair, and took an uneasy and agitated turn up and down the warmed and well-lighted room, into which, from the hall and through the door beyond, came the words of Mrs. Lake and the reply of Susan the servant-girl. 
               Through another door into the parlor, and even into the back-parlor, of which the folding-doors were open, his glance fell, as he walked; and he seemed to see everything with almost unnatural distinctness, dim as was the light reflecting into the second room from the first. There was a connection, he knew, between what he saw in that back-parlor, and the murmur of voices and the light sound of pattering feet on the floor above; for the youngsters had been sent uncommonly early to bed that night, willingly on their own part, because they would thus have more time to dream over the great glories of the morrow,-and quite willingly on the part of their mother, because there would thus be less danger of their seeing those glories a little prematurely, through some sudden irruption into that room in the wake of an older person, not easy to be guarded against. 
               What Col. Mowry saw in that back parlor, was a Christmas-tree, made from a small natural pine, obtained without the cost and trouble of seeking in market, and so much better than the ordinary Christmas-tree of the cities, that it had been dug up with all the frozen earth about its sturdy roots, neatly boxed and set in the middle of the room: a veritable tree, that would live and grow if set once, more in the ground, not a mere stake without life or thrift. 
               He saw something more than this, too, though not half what he would have seen under a better light. It was Christmas Eve; and the little tree was full of such fruit as (thank Him whose birth they signalize!) hangs pendant on thousands and thousands of boughs, throughout the merry holiday time, making glad the hearts of the children and renewing a lesson of "peace on earth, good-will to men" in tens of thousands of older hearts that have never out-lived the need of such reminders. Strange fruit, if any naturalist could have been called into determine and class the different species! though beautiful enough, in themselves, and doubly beautiful as symbolizing the gifts brought so long ago to the Christ-Child of Bethlehem. Not the gayest tree in the orchard could have shown half so many colors, or one-tenth the bewildering glitter, in the height of the season of blossoms; and even the flower-beds would have been ashamed, as well as ordinary out-of-door trees, in the effort to match the profusion of white, and red, and blue, and pink, and silver, and gold, scattered so bewilderingly among the green branches, in doll-dress, and pin-cushion, and handkerchief, and colored motto, and work-box, and cornucopia, and an hundred other varieties of toy and trifle, by the aid of which, perhaps, childhood is more removed from painful dullness and apathy, than by the presence of all the more valuable and more reasonable things filling the demands of older years. 
               But how was this? Christmas Eve-the tree loaded with its gifts, and yet the children sent away to bed without being allowed a sight of those treasures? 
               The explanation of what seems so very singular, is simple enough when once undertaken-as are a thousand and one explanations of wonderful mysteries which set whole communities by the ears. The facts were, that Judge John Lake, of Red-lands, after taking much pleasure in providing this undoubted delight for his children, and arranging to hold the little home-festival at its proper time, Christmas Eve, had suddenly been informed, on the morning of that day, that dear friends whom he had not met for many years, had arrived from Europe, would be at the nearest railway station of Westerlo, twenty-five miles distant from Redlands, at some hour late in the afternoon, on their way to keep the holiday week with him and his family, and needed to be met with some conveyance for that distance, as the stage, the only other mode of transit through the little-traveled hill-country, would have left before their arrival. 
               Of course, to do honor to those whom he was so anxious to welcome, Judge Lake had not sent one of the farm-hands, though two or three were in comparative idleness,-but driven out to Westerlo himself, leaving a little after noon, purposing to transact some business at the town before the arrival of his friends, and expecting to reach home, with them in company, by at the latest nine or ten o'clock that evening. 
               This hour would be too late for the Christmas-tree, however-what with the arrival, the necessary unpacking and warming after so long and cold a ride; for it was well understood that not even the Christmas treasures to come could keep open beyond a certain hour the bright eyes of Helen, the eldest, ripe old maid of twelve, and those of John, Richard (Colonel Mowry could have told whence he derived his name), and pet Katie, who at the age of three rounded the present number of the family treasures of Redlands. There had been nothing for it, but either to exhibit the Christmas-tree without the presence of the husband and father, and without the company of those who would make so welcome an addition to the festive few-or to defer the ceremony to Christmas Evening, when the delay would be more than compensated. 
               So this had been the arrangement made, before Judge Lake drove away; though it is not certain that a considerable amount of diplomacy and some bargaining had not been found necessary on the part of the tender mother, who did not need, at that hour, to discover how much children prefer even a very small "bird in the hand" to several that may be flying about in bushes or waiting in the cages of future hours! In so loving and well-regulated a household as that of Redlands, however, there could not well have followed any insurmountable difficulty; and thus the arrangement had been made, even if a tart or two, some bonbons and a few wheedling kisses chanced to be expended in the operation. 
               This accomplished, there had come another complication, as is not uncommon at the moment when we have cleared a special field with great care and energy. An hour before nightfall, had arrived Colonel Mowry, a personal associate and political friend of the Judge, much better acquainted with him than with his wife, especially as the latter stood a little in awe of his handsome person and dignified, though always courteous, manners. He had some business to transact with the Judge, upon which much depended and which it would be injurious to delay; and he had come in on horseback, from Hartsboro, some twenty miles distant in an opposite direction to that which the Judge had taken, intending to conclude his negotiations within an hour, drink a cup of tea, then to saddle again and reach home by bed-time. The Judge's temporary absence had necessarily rendered this arrangement impossible; and there were other arguments (presently to be noticed) seconding the warm invitation of Helen Lake that he would allow his horse to be stabled for the night, wait for her husband's return, accept a bed, and return to Hartsboro after transacting his business in the morning, if he did not choose to remain longer and share in their humble Christmas festivities. 
               It is safe to, say that Colonel Richard Mowry had no thought, even then, of remaining beyond the morning, for any Christmas festivities that could be found over the whole round earth: business and the habits of life of a business man, were calling him back too strongly for that. But he was a lonely man, boarding, and consequently left no family to be anxious over an unexpected absence; those other, arguments were pressing; Redlands was no uninviting place in which to pass a winter night; return without transacting his business would entail two extra rides of twenty miles each-about forty miles; and, in short, half an hour before the first glimpse is caught of him, standing in the door, in conversation with Helen Lake, the gallant Colonel had done what he certainly never had done in that Mexican war which gave him his title and a world of experience-had "surrendered at discretion." 
                
               So much explained, it may be well to return to the time when the brief conversation had taken place between Mrs. Lake and the servant, and to Richard Mowry himself, as he moved about in that unaccountably restless manner, yet presenting a picture of rare manly beauty, with his tall form, dark hair of waving curls (now dashed a little with gray) and handsomely bearded face, whereon both corresponding flecks of silver in the beard, and lines of full maturity around the mouth and under the warm brown eyes, assisted in showing that he was at or near that crowning moment of human life, of which Thackeray speaks lovingly in his significant line 
                     "Wait till you come to forty year!"
                  
                
               It must be remembered that, however long we may have been in making and receiving this explanation, there had been only a moment of actual time between the Colonel's excited spring from his chair, his glance into the lighted parlor, and his restless crossing of the hall-and that at which we once more observe him, still under the influence of that strange spell;-that Mrs. Lake and the servant were still conversing;-and that the object of debate yet stood at the gate, dimly defined in the winter twilight. 
               For some cause, the sight of the holiday trifles did not bring that calm to the spirit of the Colonel, which every word and every token of the holy time should combine to establish in the minds of the reverent. He was evidently more disquieted by the sight, than even by the words which had produced so strange an effect upon him. What could it mean? Was he, loved and respected of all men and reverenced by many, really a despiser, at heart, of the era and its commemorations? And, combined with this, was there some dark secret in his past, which could thus move him by a chance word? Neither seemed quite probable-and yet-Again, what could it mean? 
                
               Two turns up and down the room, and his agitation seemed to increase rather than diminish. He stepped out into the hall, closing the door behind him, and approached the hostess, just as she replied to Susan's explanation. 
               "You are quite right, Susan, though you seem to be taking a long time to say a few words. Tell him, whoever he is, that we have no spare room. Tell him to go on to the village: it is only a mile." 
               "In that case, Mrs. Lake, you will excuse my reconsidering my promise to wait for your husband, and to remain all night if he should be very late. And I hope that you will not think me troublesome if I ask John to bring round my horse." 
               The Colonel was speaking, close at Mrs. Lake's ear, and in a tone of voice so earnest and agitated that his manner, quite as much as his words, surprised and half-frightened her. 
               "Why, Colonel Mowry, what can you mean? You certainly do not suppose that my words-" 
               "Were intended for me? Certainly not, Madame! They might much better have been intended for me, however." 
               "Really, Colonel, I do not understand you!" 
               Mrs. Lake, handsome, plump-figured, brown-haired and pleasant-faced, at the perfection of that mature age reached by the well-kept American woman at from thirty-two to thirty-five, and by no means, in person or position, the sort of individual likely to be treated with rude discourtesy,-Mrs. Lake spoke in very natural surprise, with which may have been blended a slight ingredient of indignation; and her mingled emotions were no doubt shared, however differently, both by the servant-girl and the applicant whom she had designated as a "straggler," maintaining their relative positions at the gate. 
               It was a chill December night, just shutting down into a storm which had been threatening for days; and in that latter fact may have been found those "other arguments" for remaining the night, before alluded to. The first thin flakes of snow were falling, of which no man could decide whether they were merely a flurry, to pass over and leave the sky dull and lowering yet for hours; or whether they were the avant couriers of unnumbered millions, hanging low in the upper air and ready to descend and overwhelm the whole land within half the time yet remaining till midnight. But the wind was rising, stronger and stronger at every gust which moaned through the leafless trees of the grounds; and to a practiced ear like that of the Colonel, there was that in the sound, apart from its direction, which indicated that it was coming in in fury from the Atlantic, with an women of wrath and desolation. That new glance at the threatening sky, as he came to the door, and at the cheerful light from the parlor, coming out through the closed curtains, on the ground already glimmering with the new snow, redoubled what there had before been of troubled feeling within his mind; and he no doubt realized, as Hellen Lake could not do, the bitter contrast that must be presented by the cheerless cold without and the reflected light and warmth from within, to any one standing at the gate; just as he could read omens of the sky which conveyed little or no meaning to eyes uninstructed like hers. 
               There was a moment's pause, after the last and mortified remark of the hostess, which has been noted; and then, her guest making no answer, she repeated her remark, with some natural words in addition: 
               "Really, Colonel Mowry, I do not understand you! And if you were not a friend of my husband, I should think that you were treating me a little strangely. What can your remaining here have to do with this straggler at the gate? Be good enough to tell me!" 
               "That word again! Heavens! I wish people would stop using it, or that I could be deaf whenever it was spoken!" It was too dark, in the hall-entrance, for Mrs. Lake to see the pained expression of his face; but again she noted the agitation of his voice, as he continued, "Tell me truly, Mrs. Lake, have you more beds in the house than are necessary to accommodate your own people?" 
               Had there been a better light on the piazza, then, too, the face of the hostess might have been seen to undergo a flush of something like shame, at the necessity of either allowing an honored guest to leave her house under a ridiculous misunderstanding, or convicting herself of having told a falsehood in regard to the extent of her sleeping accommodations! 
               "Why, certainly! Don't you know that our house is very large, and that we have always two or three spare chambers?" She tried, it must be confessed, to keep her voice sufficiently low to allow the Colonel to hear the answer without its reaching the applicant at the gate; but there has always remained at least a fear that the precaution was ineffectual. 
               Something very like a harsh word sprang to Colonel Mowry's lips, but it found no vent in that shape. When he spoke, as he did the instant after, it was in a low, earnest, broken tone, so much in contrast with the usual energy and vivacity of his character that had the hostess possessed any additional power of astonishment it would certainly have been exercised. 
               "Will you do me a great favor, Mrs. Lake?" 
               "A favor, Colonel? Certainly-anything that you are at all likely to ask!" 
               "Be kind enough, then, to tell Susan to bring in the poor fellow, give him some supper, and send him to a comfortable bed." 
               "Why, is it possible"-a sudden thought took wondering possession of the hostess, and she thus gave vent to it-"that you have recognized the voice and know the man?-that he is some reduced friend or pensioner of yours? If so, why did you not say so at first, without paining me by talking of going away?" 
               "Because, Mrs. Lake," the Colonel answered, very slowly and with the same undefined trouble in his voice, "I did not recognize him, either by word or sight-have not the least idea in the world of his personality." 
               "And yet you so strongly wish-" 
               "That he may be taken in and sheltered from the cold of this night, and from possible deadly hunger, added to his shivering in thin clothes? Yes." 
               Mrs. Lake tried once more, through the dusk, to see enough of her guest's face and figure to recognize the peculiar motive of his action; but so much sight was impossible. She only saw that he was standing with both hands on the lintels of the door within, as she was herself at the porch. And then the explanation-a very natural one-came to her: that the Colonel was simply acting in the interests of a high humanity, and that the intention was to teach her a lesson which perhaps she needed. So without another word to the teacher, she received the schooling, whatever it was, and sent out on the night air a very different order to the servant from that which had first attracted the attention of the man within the parlor. 
               "Susan, you may take the man round to the kitchen, give him some supper-warm supper, mind, Susan; and then come to me and I will see what can be done to find him a place to sleep." 
               The two figures were seen, immediately after, moving in from the gate and taking the path which led round to the kitchen-door; and Colonel Mowry, whose senses may have been a little more acute in that direction than those of the lady, heard, as they disappeared, a sort of murmuring: "God bless you, kind people!" with the shivering: "Oh, I am so cold and so hungry and what would I have done if the good lady had made me go away from the gate!" 
               At these words, Colonel Mowry staggered against the wall, and seemed strangely affected and unnerved; and then, before the hostess could well express her anxiety lest he should be suddenly ill, he recovered himself, felt for her hand in the dusk and took it, and said: 
               "Please come into the parlor, now, Mrs. Lake, and let me make my apology, there, for seeming to have meddled with your household arrangements. I hope and believe that I can excuse myself, and that you may be rather grateful to me than otherwise, when you know all. Come, your hand is cold, and we have both remained too long bareheaded in this chilly hall. Come, and hear my apology, which is to be an explanation, though" and a quick shudder, which the lady recognized through the touch of his hand, went over him as he said the last words-"I think that I would rather march up to a battery, at this moment, than say what I am going to say." 
               "For Heaven's sake, then, Colonel," Mrs. Lake replied, as they went into the warmth and light within the parlor, and closed the door to shut out darkness and chill, while the mother additionally closed that leading into the back parlor, with an indefinable impression that she was closing up some casket sacred to her children and their joys, and not yet ready to be opened-"for Heaven's sake, then, Colonel, do not pain yourself to make any explanation, for certainly no apology is needed for insisting upon my doing what was probably my duty, and what I should probably have done without urging, had I not been too selfish, and too careful a housewife." 
               "Too careful a housewife'-ay, that is the word, not the other, at all," answered the Colonel, as he resumed the seat which he had quitted, before the fire of short logs in the blazing franklin. 
                
               "And as to sparing myself the 'pain' of the explanation, you are familiar, I have no doubt, with Coleridge's 'Ancient Mariner,' and can imagine that there may be others who can say that at some 
                      
                        -"Uncertain hour 
                        The agony returns; 
                        And till my ghastly tale is told 
                        The heart within me burns." 
                     
                  
                
               "And perhaps, too, sometimes, 
                      
                        "I know the man who must hear me; 
                        To him my tale I teach;" 
                     
                  
                
               "Or to her, as the case may be," 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER II. 
               Colonel Mowry's Remembrance of a Dead Christmas. 
               Colonel Mowry was silent for a moment, gazing into the blazing logs with the look of one who saw far beyond them both as to space and time; and Helen Lake, dropping into her cushioned rocker, in such a position that the lamp light and the flame of the birch-wood in the franklin both played on her handsome face and luxuriant hair, and framed her, as it were, in the surroundings of the comfortable and even luxurious room-she, mechanically taking up he knitting as an occupation for the fingers and a means of concentrating the mind,-saw the abstracted look, not unaccompanied by symptoms of positive pain and suffering, and wondered yet more at the strange revelation which seemed about to be made, into the character of a man whom she had known so long but now believed that she so faintly understood. 
               "I would rather that you should look at me as little as possible, while I speak; for I am about to lay bare the shame as well as the horror of my life!" the Colonel said, at last breaking that silence which had become almost painful. 
               "It may be possible, Colonel Mowry, to associate the latter with some fearful misfortune in your life," answered Mrs. Lake, reassuringly; "but I may need something more than even your own words, to believe that the former could be connected with you." 
                
               "I thank you, madam, very warmly, for the good opinion which, as a friend of your husband, I may hope that I at least partially deserve," said the Colonel, in a low, impressive, and what might be called a meditative voice. "And yet, you flatter humanity, or have too good an opinion of it, if you convey the idea that any man living is too high or too good to have laid himself liable to a great shame, at some point in his life. Happy and fortunate are the best of us, if such instances are the exceptions, and not the rules of conduct." 
               "Hark!" Helen Lake could not avoid giving vent to the exclamation, so keenly and coldly at that moment the winter blast went howling around the piazza and gables of Redlands, while the thick flurry of snow, coming more severely than either hostess or guest could have expected it, dashed against the unsheltered window-panes with a sound that made the blood thrill and creep a little, with the suggestion of what it must be to those exposed to its inclemency. 
               "Yes, hark!" echoed Colonel Mowry; and there was again silence for quite a minute, while each, without giving expression to the knowledge, indefinably knew what would have syllabled the predominant thought of the other. That of the Colonel himself: "You hear, madame, what a night it is growing!-what would you think of yourself, now, if you had allowed the poor old fellow to wander on in cold and hunger?" And that of Helen Lake: "How glad I am that I was checked in the thoughtless order! and how much I owe you, Colonel Mowry, for having recalled me to my duty!" 
               With the lady, however, there was a supplemental thought, unsyllabled, like the other, and dealing with what really was, rather than what might have been. 
               "Who would have thought that the storm could come so quickly and so severely! Poor John is out in it, after all; and who knows how many miles he and our friends may have to ride, with the snow beating in their faces! How I wish they were home and snugly housed with the rest of us!" 
               There was no force in this latter thought, however-as how should there have been? The earliest time for Judge Lake's coming, by any calculation, had not arrived; and what danger could threaten him or his friends, however they might be, for an hour or two, incommoded by the wintry blast and storm? In fact, the thought made so little impression that the lady recovered herself first from the feeling which had made the momentary interruption; while her guest walked to the window, lifted the curtain, looked out into the snowy night, then dropped it again with something like a shudder, and returned to his seat and shook off the influence of the moment with a motion like that of shaking his shoulders free from water. 
               "Now tell me, Colonel, the secret of your being moved so strangely; for I do not disguise that you have awakened my curiosity as well as my interest?" 
               So the lady was the first to speak, remembering that it had been her exclamation which broke in upon the intended commencement of the Colonel's narrative. 
               Without responding to this, otherwise than by simply obeying, Colonel Mowry began his relation, in a low, earnest voice, fitted to one auditor, and full of painful feeling, growing more and more marked as he proceeded: 
               "You have known me-let me see-something like a dozen years; and you must have known Tuftsboro and its neighborhood for about the same length of time. It has changed very much, however, in the few years preceding,-much of the wood being cut from the wild, rough hills, impassable roads rendered at least passable to travelers, and at least three houses taking the place of one along the leagues of way between Holdane dane and the Forks of Usher. You can imagine, then, that twelve or fifteen years ago, taking its present topography as a test, the whole section was wild, rough, bleak and inhospitable. 
               "The house which I now occupy, as a sort of boarder-proprietor, as you are probably aware-for I think that I remember telling you so much when your husband first brought you home-was occupied by my father and had been by my grand-father. Where it stands was then bleak level-what the English call moorland-just before the hills commenced to rise towards Holdane; and there was not, then, a single other house within two miles on the Holdane side, and something like a mile-and-a-half, on the other, towards the Forks. You will understand, directly, only too well, why I am particular in enabling you to recognize the appearance of the section and the distances involved. 
               "I courted and won a wife at Holdane-" 
               "A wife! You-Colonel Mowry? Why, I am sure that I never heard of your being married!" 
               The exclamation was a very natural one on the part of Helen Lake; and yet the moment after she had made it, she became aware that the interruption was both improper and unnecessary-that probably the very remark would explain itself, perhaps painfully; so that without waiting for any reply from her guest, she corrected herself as well as apologized by saying: 
               "I really beg your pardon-pray go on, without heeding what may almost have sounded like an impertinence." 
               Colonel Mowry thanked her by a look and a bow, and merely answered, before proceeding: 
               "No impertinence, whatever, madame-very natural, your remark, I am sure. However, with your permission, I will proceed as I began. 
               "As I said-I courted and won a wife at Holdane. I had my wedding-day, or rather wedding-night, fixed, after two years' of engagement. Excuse me if I substitute imaginary names for real ones, as real ones, cannot do any good and may possibly some time give pain through a chance repetition. If there is any truth in romances, and we do go a little wild in our affections, I suppose that I must have been madly in love, as the phrase is, with Milly Golden, of whom I will not say more than is necessary, because you never knew her, and there is not much probability that you ever will see her on this side of the dark river: enough that she was very young-even younger than myself-that I thought her very handsome, and that she was quite worthy of even all the affection that I could bestow upon her: I certainly thought I could give more of that security for wedded happiness than most men of my age. 
               "I doubt whether there was living a man who looked forward to his marriage-hour with more absorbing and yet reasonable expectations of happiness. Not general and continued happiness only, to endure through long wedded years; but special delight, on the night when I should see all my friends gathered around me (according to that good old custom of the country, which I have never yet learned to despise), and show how much I loved the woman who was to be the companion of all my future life, by gathering her home to my heart, in the presence of them all!" 
               Something in memory seemed to choke the narrator at that moment; and Mrs. Lake did not need the past adjuration to turn away her head, out of respect to a grief that seemed so intense, for a disappointment so strongly if so blindly foreshadowed. But the emotion of the speaker subsided after a moment, and again he went on: 
               "I must tell you, however, something more of Milly Golden's family (supposing that to be the name), so that you may better understand what is to follow. Well, she was the eldest daughter of a partially-invalid widow lady, living at Holdane, pinching along a little, I was often afraid (though I did not dare insult them by hinting at assistance, or even making a direct inquiry), on a small life-annuity, left her by her deceased husband, a clergyman; and something of habitual sadness being connected with the family history and traditions, through the loss at sea, many years before, of no less than three of the brothers of Milly's mother, all sea-faring men, and more or less scapegraces, perhaps remembered but the more fondly on the latter account. It is necessary again to be particular, in saying that Mrs. Golden was not an old resident of the section, but had accompanied her husband, some years after marriage, from the coast line lying many miles south of the Forks-her family history being far less known, and her circle of visiting acquaintance much more limited, than they might have been, in the event of her original residence in the neighborhood. 
               "How it was that my wedding-night was set for Christmas, I forget, if I ever really knew. Perhaps because Christmas, that year (as I well remember), fell on Wednesday; and there is a legendary attachment, over much of the country, to Wednesday as a marriage day, because they suppose the name to have been originally "Weddings-day," instead of "Wodensdag;" perhaps because poor Milly, the most reverent as well as the cheerfulest little soul in the world, had a sweet fancy of her nuptials taking place on the natal day of him who blessed the marriage supper of Cana; perhaps-who knows?-only on some question of convenience or millinery. 
               "At all events, the marriage was fixed for Christmas night, in the room in her mother's house where we had so often sat hand-in-hand, to talk over the love of the present and the hopes of the future. And, I repeat it-never did expectant bridegroom look forward to any one period with such certainty of happiness, as I to the Christmas evening of 18-. 
               "Nature, meanwhile, was as gay as my hopes, and as pure as those of my bridge; for the snow lay deep over all the region, shrouding everything that might have been ugly or offensive, and it had fallen long enough before to be beaten level in the more traveled roads, so that long rides were the order of the time, and the few sleigh-bells in the section were brought into flying requisition. Then, after the great snow, a long period of clear cold weather seemed to have set in lasting for many days, with only the change of its gradually growing keener and keener, until at the verge of Christmas the atmosphere must have touched zero and gone far below it. 
               "What was cold weather-nay, freezing, arctic weather, however, to a heart as young, as warm and impetuous as mine? Was not Milly to be mine on Christmas night, and comfort all my life thereafter? I well remember the warm blushing kiss she gave me as I left her on Tuesday morning, after making the excuse of carrying her up a pair of shoes and some ribbons, while the fact was, I suppose, that I felt the impossibility of waiting two whole days without sight of her, the proprieties necessarily keeping me absent on what the country people call 'girl-night'-the last night of unmarried life. 
               "How fearfully cold that last night shut down! I remember its chill as if it had been but yesterday. The snow crunched under the foot with that peculiar metallic sound indicative of every flake being frozen anew; the stars winked with a chill glitter that seemed steely and pitiless; and the north-west wind bit home like the driving of sharp icicles into the flesh. It was an awful night, spite of the calm of the heavens: a night long to be remembered: how to be remembered by me! 
                
               "You think, I have no doubt, Mrs. Lake, that I am lingering wantonly over these details?" 
               "No-you are only interesting me beyond measure; pray go on, though I dread to hear what may be coming," replied Helen Lake, who had long before dropped her knitting, and even half-ceased listening to the howling of the wind and the dashing of the snow. 
               "If I am lingering, I am only doing so because I dread to approach what must follow!" the Colonel resumed, with a shudder which partially communicated itself to his hearer. "Well-why linger on the brink of the pool, however cold the plunge? 
               "It was perhaps eight o'clock, and we had finished supper. My father was absent, at the Forks, but was momentarily expected. I came out from the house, and found my step-mother-the dearest and best of women, whom I loved quite as well as I could have done my own mother,-standing at the yard-gate. Through the dusk, I could see that a ragged, uncleanly-looking old fellow was at the gate, and I could hear their conversation. He was asking the privilege of staying all night, and she was as evidently hesitating. I knew why she was doing so. Within twenty-four hours our house would be full of visitors, attracted by the wedding and the Christmas festivities; and how could she allow that uncleanly tramp to contaminate one of her snow-white and immaculate beds-perhaps infect a whole chamber? 
               "I heard that doubt in her voice, and I echoed it, God forgive me!-I was so much younger then, and so much less aware of the scars which crimes and follies make on our natures as well as our lives! Sometimes, I think, our love and our happiness make us for the moment harder and more selfish, just as at other moments they soften and refine us. I was so happy, just then, I think, that the world was nothing to me. Above all, I wanted no strangers, and certainly no dirty strangers, mingling with the family and with my great joy. 
               "The man was pleading, even after the refusal, to be allowed to stay; and I heard him, in a voice, that sounded foreign and outlandish, though he was speaking good English enough, saying something about 'Holdane.' 
               "'Pshaw, mother, you have debated long enough with that old straggler!' I said. 'He knows about Holdane, and no doubt can easily enough find his way there. Send him on, and come in out of the cold, with your bare head and no shawl. 
               "'There, my good man, you hear what my son says,' said my mother, thus strengthened (or weakened) by my words. 'We cannot do anything for you to-night; all full. Right up the road there, only a couple of miles, that is the way to Holdane.' 
               "The poor fellow made one more attempt to create pity, and I caught his suggestion: 
               "'Madam, let me sleep in the barn!' 
               "Instantly another unfortunate recollection took possession of me. Twice, within the preceding winter, barns had been burned in the section, through fire alleged to have been accidentally communicated by old tramps and beggars, who had taken up their lodgings in barns, and there (as supposed) lighted their dangerous pipes; though of course no one really knew that either of the fires had occurred otherwise than through the carelessness of owners or employees. It is a pitiful fact, that responsibility is almost always shoved off in that manner-even more, I think, in the country than in the city. However, at this suggestion, I took the matter into my own hands, thinking, at the moment, that my father would not allow such a thing. 
               "'No, old man,' I said, 'you cannot sleep in the barn. You have heard what my mother said: we have no room for you. Go on, before it gets later and colder.' 
                
               "The old fellow turned and went his way; but I remember catching a glimpse of his almost white hair, by the light from the house windows, and hearing him say, as he wrapped his poor clothes about him: 
               "'Cold! cold!' 
               "I have never known, since, except that God is very slow to punish, or that He had other and heavier penalties for me, why I was not struck dead at the moment, for that gross act of cruelty. I only know that I allowed him to go away, and that I dimly saw his tattered rags disappear against the white snow, up the hill-road leading to Holdane, which place, I must do myself the justice to say that I had at the moment no doubt of his reaching, the hour being so early. 
               "My step-mother entered the house, as the man moved away, and I followed her in a moment. He had scarcely been gone ten minutes when she said, looking at me in her own kind, troubled way: 
               "'Richard, I wonder whether we did quite right in not letting the poor old man stay? Who knows what may happen to him?' 
               "'Pshaw!' I answered, 'think of your beds, and remember that you do not keep a hotel! He will get along all well enough; and the roads are always full of such fellows with pitiful stories.' 
               "'Ah, well, I suppose so; but it is very cold, Richard, to be out-very cold. I wish your father was home.' 
               "She said nothing more on the subject, and I was glad that she did not, for the double reason that she did not wake my sleeping conscience, as she might have done,-and that I was thus enabled to fall away into one of my cherished waking-dreams, in which I saw, bathing myself in the light and warmth of the great fire, all the joyful events of the next evening-Milly in bridal white, with her face all blushes of love for me; an hundred friends around us, all happy because we were so; and myself arrived at that summit of happiness on which the crown of a king, with no Milly to bind it on the brow, would have been only an insult. I had dreamed such dreams a thousand times before-at night, in my lonely room-by day in my office, if left alone and in silence for a few moments-under the stars, when each scemed sending down some benison on my love; but never before so fondly or vividly as that night when the mere approach of my noces gave color to some intensity of expectation. 
               "My father fulfilled my mother's wish in a very brief period-perhaps half-an-hour-by returning, the snow crunching hard under his wheels, and the breath frozen to great icicles in his beard. He came in to the fire, while one of the men led away his horses. My mother was evidently ill at ease, for she spoke to him on the one subject uppermost in mind, almost the moment that he was seated. She told him what had been said and done, quite as little as myself expecting what was to follow. 
               "'I am ashamed that I have one of you for a wife and the other for a son!' he exclaimed, indignantly, when he knew the whole. 'Allow an old man, in poor clothes, to go away from the door in such a night as this! Why, I have heard to-day, at the Forks, of two men and a woman being found frozen to death in different places! I am ashamed of you both! Here, give me my hat again, and I will freeze the remainder of me in looking for him, before such a disgrace shall fall on the house of Robert Mowry!' 
               "'Oh, Robert, I did not think-' my step-mother began; but I cut her short by taking the blame that belonged to me, and springing from my seat. My father's words, heaven-directed, had opened my eyes to the enormity of the wrong; and in one moment I had began to fear the worst. 
                
               "'No, father,' I said, 'I see now, how cruel we have been-no, I, for I did the act. Sit where you are. I will follow the poor old man all the way to Holdane, and help him if anything has happened.' 
               "'Well, go!' answered my father, resuming his seat. 'You are right now, if you were wrong before. Look for him-stop, take one of the men with you; and whatever you do, when you find him, bring him back here-HERE, where he belongs!'
                
               "'I had scarcely ever before heard my father speak so determinedly; and certainly, within fifteen minutes my ardent temperament had leaped to as much suffering on the poor old man's behalf as I had only ten minutes before enjoyed of prospective happiness. 'Oh, Father in Heaven!' I almost moaned, 'to think of my expecting to be so happy, in having all that I love in the world-and then turning a poor old man away from the door, to freeze and die on the public road!' I could scarcely wait until one of the men had equipped himself to accompany me, and provided himself with a lantern, for what horrible purpose of close inspection neither of us cared to think. 
               "I must hurry on, Mrs. Lake, and-" 
               "Oh, what are you making of me, Colonel Mowry!" Helen Lake rather faltered than spoke, in her extremity of self-abasement. 
               "Hush, Madame!-the circumstances are not at all similar; and remember-the man was not sent away from your door! Well, as I was saying, I have no words to describe the events of that night, between nine, when we left the house, and three in the morning, when we returned to it. Such intense cold I had never before experienced, and have scarcely ever since felt its equal. Iron bands seemed drawn around our brows; the breath froze on our lips; our hands and feet grew lumps of ice,-as up and down, first one road and then another, we tramped and struggled, slipped and slid our terrible way. All the way to Holdane, and back the road to the Forks, nearly the whole distance; side-road after side-road, wherever travel was possible or a human track showed itself to the light of the lantern. Not a gulch that we did not explore, not a dark object that we did not visit with fear and dawning horror. 
               "I have said that hands and feet were ice; but my brain was burning fire. I can only remember a chaos of self-accusation and abject horror of myself, rather diminished than increased by coming upon the object of our search, at what afterwards proved to have been past two in the morning. We found him under a lee of the woods, in a bit of side-road, half-way up the hill towards Holdane, seated at the foot of a tree, his thin rags drawn close around his chest and throat, where the hands had stiffened that held them-dead!-stone dead!-and cold, almost as cold as the night and our pity!" 
               Colonel Mowry paused, and Mrs. Lake said, with sorrow in her voice: 
               "It is a fearful lesson that you have taught me, Colonel; but I regret to have given you so much pain. There, try to think no more about it." 
               "What!" and the guest sprang to his feet as he uttered the word, and went to the window, where he looked out upon the storm, with his back to the hostess and his face almost against the glass, as he uttered the next words: "What! you think that I have told the worst! Heaven would have been very merciful, if that had been the worst-only a man murdered! But we brought him home, in the gloomy winter morning, after returning for the wagon for that purpose,-home, where entrance only a few hours before, which I had denied him, would have saved his life. I was half-mad, and my step-mother little better, but some of them retained their senses and a justice was called to act as coroner. When they stripped him I was called into the room, to have my eyes blasted quite as fatally as ever the head of Medusa produced that effect. On the withered old arm there was a mass of tattooing, such as sea-faring men are so fond of subjecting themselves to; and from the midst of the stars and anchors gleamed out one terrible line-a single name: 
                     '"JAS HOLABIRD.'
                  
                
               "I think that I need scarcely enlarge upon what followed. It was only too plain that one of the long-lost brothers of Mrs. Golden, an uncle of my Milly, making his way, old, broken and penniless, from some scene of long suffering, to where he had dimly heard that his sister resided,-had been turned from the door, by me, to die so miserably!" 
               Colonel Mowry paused again, and nothing interrupted him except the dash of the wind and the whirling of the snow without. When he went on with the few concluding words, his voice was low and broken and the speech evidently an effort: 
               "Of course you want to hear the rest-there is not much, and should not be, to end such a recollection. But the rest was important to myself; for thank God that I was punished!-I say it reverently-thank God that He punished me, otherwise even than in the stings of conscience! I had expected to be the husband of Milly Golden, on Christmas night: before that night came, her mother, fallen insensible on the body of her brother, who thus came to her only in death,-had sunk under the blow, and all thoughts of marriage were as far away as then seemed happiness. It was a sad Christmas; and before the Spring-flowers bloomed, Mrs. Golden lay beside her brother. 
               "I suppose I need not say that neither Milly Golden nor myself thought of marrying, over the body of her dead uncle, when I was so nearly his murderer, and with her mother lying a hopeless invalid from the same cause. And when the second blow came and she was an orphan-was it much more likely that we could forget, now that a second body seemed to lie between our loves? No-the thing was impossible: it was madness even to think of it. She tried so hard-dear girl!-I know that she did-to think that I had not been to blame, or at least that I had not acted more thoughtlessly than any other young man would have done under the same circumstances. But what was that, even if she succeeded? We do not love much, when we are driven to make excuses for the object that we believe we love; to be loved one must commend himself to the heart of the other, as infinitely better than all surrounding. She tried to exonerate me-I know and feel so much; but I know and feel quite as well, that in spite of herself she shuddered at me, at times when the dreadful recollection came fresh to her. Was not that enough? 
               "I do not say that we might not have been married, after a time, had I possessed the hardihood-may I not say the cruelty?-to insist. I quite believe Milly to have been capable of that amount of self-sacrifice-enough to have made her try to 'love, honor, and obey' a man at whom she shuddered! But I was not lost enough for that! We met seldom and constrainedly, after the death of her mother. I think that we both wept, after those meetings, to think that what had been could never be again. People wondered whether the marriage, of which they had once heard as so nearly accomplished, and to which many of them had been invited, was never to take place-and if not, why not? I think that many of them called us 'fools!' and applied even worse names. 
               "There came a relief to all this, one day-a relief, I think, to both of us, for it must have been that we were slowly breaking our hearts over those two dead bodies. Another relative of Milly's made his appearance at Holdane, well-to-do, they said. She went away with him, to some great distance-where or in what direction, I do not know. We did not bid each other farewell coldly-only broken-heartedly; and we have never seen each other since. I think, Mrs. Lake," the voice of Colonel Mowry was very low and broken as he concluded, "that the question which you commenced to ask, a while ago, is answered, and that you will understand at least some reason for my nervous horror at the thought of turning away any one-even the most miserable-from the door on a winter's night!" 
               Helen Lake might have answered, with the blended pity and thanks trembling in her heart and struggling to her tongue; but at that moment, rising above the increasing roar of the storm, there came an interruption: sounding through the hall and near the parlor-door, the heavy tramp of ponderous boots. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER III. 
               The Winter Storm and John Kelly's Alarm. 
               The interruption had two constituents-John, Manxman by birth, Kelly by family name, mingled Scottish and Irish by nature, though almost exclusively Irish in speech, and head-man of the farm in the absence of Judge Lake, by present profession; and John's boots. Boots of which the Judge had been facetiously pleased to say, on the day when he first brought them home, thick and half-iron in sole; stout in upper, and of length extending to the thigh-that they must have been made out-of-doors, in fair weather, as no shop could possibly have contained them,-and that, thereafter, he should always be obliged to speak of the boots first, out of respect to their size and mightiness-as "John's boots and John," instead of "John and his boots." 
               John had a squat but powerful figure, a broad, honest, no bearded face, with thick lips and merry blue eyes-lips of even uncommon thickness, and a propensity for singing all the old songs connected with the siege of Londonderry, the taking of Carrickfergus by Thurot, etc., which made him an original if not always a pleasing companion; and not many months of his service had been necessary to convince Judge Lake that he was energetic, determined (however stupidly so at times), faithful and valuable. 
               The sound of the boots came along the hall, distracting attention tion from even the driving wind and drifting snow. Then they stopped at the parlor-door, and half-a-dozen loud raps sounded on the panel. Colonel Mowry, to whom such boots were a phenomenon, expressed wonder at the sound; but Helen Lake, who recognized them at once, arose with an undefinable alarm and a word of explanation, and opened the door. The broad face and sturdy figure of John stood framed within it. 
               "What is it, John?" 
               "If ye plaze, ma'am, did the masther say that maybe he'd be sthayin' at Westherlo, or along dhe road, af dhe weather was bad?" 
               "No, John. Why?" 
               "Bekase, ma'am, I do be worried about him. Sure its' tin o'dhe clock, be Susan's clock in dhe kitchen; and af he was comin' home dhe night, he ought to be here, if no accident's been happenin' him." 
               "What do you say? Accident!" and the voice of Helen Lake grew yet more hoarse and troubled than that of her guest had been, in relating the deepest of his sorrow and shame. "Ten o'clock? Can it be possible! And accident, you say? Oh, Colonel Mowry, what can this be that he means?" 
               "Sure, ma'am, I'd not be makin' you worry for the wurruld," the clumsy fellow began: but by that time Colonel Mowry had risen from his chair and approached the door, and the remainder of the remark was addressed to him instead of the lady. "Maybe it'd be all right wid dhe masther-sorra wan o' me knows dhat it isn't. But, Misther Colonel, ye'd ondherstand dhat dhe night is an awful wan, and dhe wind blowin' and dhe schnaw drivin' dhat sharp from dhe direcshun he'd be comin', dhat dhere's no seein' against it at all at all; and dhere's places on dhe hill road, where-" 
               "Fellow, you are merely frightening Mrs. Lake, for nothing!" said the Colonel, sternly. "Mrs. Lake, pay him no attention whatever. Judge Lake knows the weather, and the roads, quite as well as his hired men do; and you may depend upon his being a man of excellent judgment enough to have remained at Westerlo or stopped somewhere on the road, if there was not a certainty of coming through with safety." 
               "I am very glad to hear you say so, Colonel, for indeed John frightened me. Do you really think that there would be any danger in driving over the hill-road to-night? And don't you believe that my husband is naturally careful enough of himself, to take the proper precautions if there really was any danger?" 
               "Not a doubt of it, Mrs. Lake!" was the confident reply of the guest. "Dismiss all worry, as you may do, on the honor of a friend, and expect to see him and his passengers in safety, either to-night or early in the morning-what is the difference which?" 
               "But dhe schnaw, Misther Colonel-" 
               John commenced again, but his expostulation was cut short, for the Colonel stood between Mrs. Lake and the workman, and a sharp nudge from the elbow of the former at length conveyed to the slow intellect of the latter that there might be improper topics of conversation before nervous wives,-when his blue eyes twisted themselves into a contortion of winks that happily his mistress did not observe, and he went about and stood on the other lack, as a nautical man might have said, with a suddenness delightful to the soul of a politician. 
               "Och thin, fwhat for 'ud I be conthradictin' his honor!" said the honest fellow, the moment he had fairly taken the warning intended to be conveyed. "Sure he'd know better nor I, about dhe roads and dhe weather at home. Sorra a word more I'll be sayin', ma'am, about dhe Joodge, only axin' yer pardon for disturbin' you; and be dhe same token he'll be home bright and early in the mornin'-who'd doubt it!" 
                
               "Oh, I am so glad to hear you say so, John, now that the Colonel and you have compared notes," she said. "And I am so much obliged to you, Colonel, for having more sense than both of us. But don't suppose that I blame you, John, for being over-anxious about my husband: no, on the contrary I thank you, and so will the Judge, when he knows how faithful and anxious you have been." 
               Something moved the Colonel, at that juncture, to secure the retreat of the Manxman from the room, before he should have spoiled his past success by some unlucky attempt to go too far on his new tack. And it cost the man of resources but one moment's thought, to do so in a manner free from the possibility of exciting the lady's suspicions, at the same time that he met another important necessity. 
               "John, my good fellow," he said, "now that you have got over that wild idea of yours, suppose that you show me how my horse is getting on. I rode him a little hardly, this afternoon, Mrs. Lake; and I am so careful a horseman that though I ride very fast, I like to look after my animal, especially on cold nights, and I hope that you will excuse my absenting myself for a quarter of an hour, before retiring." 
               "Certainly, Colonel Mowry, with great pleasure," answered the hostess, yet more relieved from her momentary fear for her husband's safety, by finding the regards of his friend so turned towards his horse, as they certainly would not have been had he judged human life to be in peril. On the part of the workman, too, the reply was quite satisfactory: 
               "Yes, come along wid me, Misther Colonel. Ye'll find the baste enjoyin' such a bed of sthraw as many a Christian 'ud be glad to lie on, this could night, and wid corn enough inside av him to plump him up like a dhrum before mornin'. Me lanthern's in the kitchen, and wid it ye'll get to the barn widout trouble." 
                
               Colonel Mowry, who had not yet assumed the evening comfort of slippers, threw on hat and top-coat, from the stand in the hall, and prepared to accompany the Manxman, passing through by way of the kitchen. Helen stood by the window, with one of the curtains raised, looking out, so far as she was able, upon the now mad revel of the storm; and the careful guest felt it necessary to say to her, as he went down the hall, of which the door still stood open: 
               "I shall not be long gone, Mrs. Lake, as I suppose that it is near your family bed-hour. Late as it is now, and with the storm grown to such a height, of course Judge Lake will not be home to-night-he is safely housed at Westerlo or some stopping-place until morning, so that there will not be any economy in either of us spoiling our Christmas eyes by waiting up for him." 
               "Yes, thank you, Colonel; I believe that I shall retire before long," answered the hostess, "even though the roaring of the storm and the absence of my husband may prevent my sleeping well. As you say, of course there can be no doubt of his having remained at Westerlo or some of the other villages, and I suppose that it would be little less than madness to expect him home to-night." 
               So they left Helen Lake, looking out of the window, entirely recovered from the momentary shock given her by well-meaning but heedless John, and thoroughly satisfied that no danger threatened the husband of her love and the father of her children. It may seem strange that she relapsed so easily into satisfaction, after a momentary alarm; but the truth is that she possessed one of those rare natures, very firm though truly womanly, not ready to take on deadly fears for any one, at a moment's notice,-while the legal avocations of Judge Lake, often keeping him absent from home for days together, had done much to prevent any feeling of excessive loneliness, out of which fear for the absent often grows so naturally, that the transition is scarcely noticed. Why should she have any cause of alarm, indeed? If the night was really unfit for traveling, as it certainly appeared, was he not wise enough to have discerned the fact at a sufficiently early hour for escaping the danger?-and was he not strong and self-possessed, as against any slight misadventure? Besides, Colonel Mowry's opinion was decidedly-that the Judge would be safely housed at many miles distance; and could not she depend upon that opinion, as given by a man of wide experience? Decidedly there was no ground for any painful anxiety-for any anxiety at all, in point of fact. Of course she wished that her dear husband had not chanced to expose himself to the necessity of remaining all night away from her-especially on Christmas Eve, when first the children's festival and afterwards the meeting with dear friends had been promised and expected; but beyond that there was no reason to go, either in anxiety or dissatisfaction. Then there were her children up-stairs, sleeping peacefully and yet needing her motherly last glance of the night: what mother is there, so much alone or so absorbed in the absence of the very partner of her life, as is habitually the holder of the empty quiver? Let the student of the sensational set down the fact and ponder it, as against a thousand uncalled-for and useless frights and anxieties,-that here was one of the tenderest of wives, not making a fool of herself, with reference to her husband, even though that husband was absent and a violent snow-storm raged along a road that he might, could, would or should have traveled. 
               Colonel Mowry and John passed down the hall and crossed an unused sitting-room, from which another door opened into the warmed and lighted kitchen. Here was John's lantern, unlit; and while he was lighting it, the Colonel took occasion to notice that the other guest, whom he had little less than forced upon the household, was sitting in a high-backed chair, in a corner near the fire, sleeping as comfortably as he could have done in any feather-bed of the mansion. The other servants were gone, and Susan seemed to be just concluding the last of her labors to follow. A word to the girl, as to why he had not been shown to a bed, led to the reply that he had asked as a special favor, to be allowed to remain in a chair beside the fire, and that she had finally given him permission to do so. It was not his business, of course, to express disapprobation of this course of the girl's, even had he felt such an inclination: had he not already taken one liberty with the household, as before suggested, in that direction? What he did, in addition, was to note that the man seemed to be of not more than forty years of age, and that, now that his body had been filled out by a plentiful supper, he looked by no means emaciated-rather athletic than the reverse, and not in rags though his clothes seemed very old and poor. 
               But this was not passing on to the stable, and towards the stable they passed on, when John had arranged his lantern-leaving the sleeping man and the comfortable fire in the kitchen, and Susan creeping away in semi-deshabille to her chamber. 
               But what a night it was, as now for the first time in three or four hours, Colonel Mowry, leaving the house for even the two-hundred yards of walk to the barn and stables, found himself exposed to its full force and severity! There had been many colder nights, within his recollection, though in even that regard the hour was a bitter one. But the snow was falling with a rapidity which old tradition used to consider impossible in very cold weather-such rapidity as threatened within a few hours to make a deposit ordinarily requiring days. There was no dampness whatever in it-on the contrary, it came with almost the dry fineness of sand-sifting, whirling, beating into eyes and nostrils with such violence as to cause sharp, stinging pain; and its very dryness rendering it impossible that it could lie still for even a single moment, or avoid repeating the violence of its fall by fiercely drifting and whirling at the mercy of the compelling wind. That wind was a gale, and a gale of most fearful character, of which the omens of the early evening had only given a faint idea. It seemed to blend the sudden violence of the hurricane with the steady rush of the long-gathering equinoctial storm-sighing and moaning through the air, as if the very particles of its composition, so to speak, jarred and crashed against each other-whirling the great masses of snow, as if playing mad antics with some helpless and bewildered subordinate-swinging and wrestling with the boughs of the fine trees that stood around the mansion of Redlands, until the trunks heaved and the branches groaned in their agony-shaking window-panes and banging shutters, as if it had been some flendish sentient thing, venting a spite upon the abode from which it was excluded-sending chills to the marrow of strong men, and almost lifting them from their feet as they caught the full fury of the blast. A terrible winter's gale-such a one as used to break very frequently, though seldom with such overwhelming violence, along the Atlantic coast of the Northern and Middle States, working desolation both by land and sea, and giving material, months and years after, for the tales of those who had encountered them and afterwards sat by cozy fires to relate the bitter experience. 
               By land and sea-ay, even more on the latter than the former element. Even in the midst of an anxiety for friends, quite enough to fill his warm and manly heart, and soon to culminate in eager effort in their behalf-Colonel Mowry found time and thought, as he stumbled after the lantern bound by John, through the fast gathering drifts, to think of pity and prayer, and to say: "God help the poor fellows who are on the coast, to-night! They may have been deceived as to what was coming, even worse than we on the land; and what mortal eye can look to windward, in the pitiless pelting of this wind and snow!" 
               It was a man of experience, as well as one of feeling, who spoke; and yet how little he dreamed of what was really to be the issue, on that coast of which he was thinking! It has already been indicated that though the day and one or two previous days had threatened, even at nightfall there had been no positive promise of a gale of any uncommon violence; and whatever the damage wrought upon the land by those deceptive appearances of wind and sky, it was scarcely to be named beside that effected upon the seaboard. Vessels had been allowed to keep close to the shore, eagerly making for port, and those who sailed them little dreaming of anything worse than the common sea-phrase, "a dirty night;" they were caught, by dozens and scores, on a lee-shore, by wind and wave of irresistible fury, with the additional peril at which Colonel Mowry had hinted-that the keenest eye could not look to windward through that terrible blending of wind and snow; and the result was sadly told for many a long year after. From the violence of that single night, the sea-beach of at least three of the Atlantic States was literally strewn with the bodies of perished seamen; the voice of wailing and lamentation went up along hundreds of miles, as it only can go when the lover of woman and the protector of childhood is swept away in a moment; and there are many who remember that for years following that night, the decaying timbers of stranded vessels could be seen in ghastly groups, by those running along the coast, often so thickly that two or three would be in sight at the same moment. 
               A terrible winter storm: nothing more is intended to be conveyed veyed, even if objects not necessarily within the province of this brief narrative, are drawn in to illustrate the violence with which it burst over land and sea. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER IV. 
               The Conference of the Barn. 
               It must not be supposed that Colonel Mowry and the man with the lantern, though the snow-drifts were becoming deep and troublesome, consumed any such proportion of time in making their way from the house to the barn and stables of Redlands, as the foregoing desultory reflections and reminiscence would indicate. They were, in fact, not five minutes between the kitchen door and that of the stable; and it was there, where Judge Lake's handsome stud of nearly a dozen horses were so carefully housed and looked after-that, stamping the snow from their boots and regarding each other by the light of John's lantern,-that conversation occurred, so pregnant with the welfare of others, and that for which the Colonel had practised one of his rare deceptions. 
               The reader, remembering the significant nudge bestowed upon the Manxman at an awkward period in the latter's discourse, may have already guessed that Colonel Mowry did not feel all the confidence with reference to the Judge's safety, which he took so much pains to impress upon Mrs. Lake-that he was really more or less alarmed for the welfare of his old friend-and that the excuse to look after the stabling and grooming of his horse had merely been made in order to secure the opportunity of speaking freely with anxious John-Kelly, without adding to the anxiety of the hostess. How far forward his mind reached at the moment of receiving the first intimation, is not easily guessed: perhaps he could not, then or afterward, have answered the question himself; but how deep was his own anxiety, was very soon developed by the fact that he did not even glance within the stall where his really-favorite and petted horse was champing his hay. 
               "What does this mean, John?" he asked at once, when they were fairly under shelter and he had brushed the clinging snow from lips and eyes. "Do you believe that Judge Lake is really in danger?" 
               "Sorra to me sowl, but I do, Misther Colonel!" the honest fellow replied, setting down his lantern on the feed-box, and taking up a straw to twist, as if that action would assist the proper revolution of his intellectual machinery. 
               "And why do you think so, strongly enough to justify your coming into the house in that manner, and commencing to frighten Mrs. Lake to death? Don't you know that if her husband was really in danger, you could do no good by making her unhappy and worried? Suppose that he came out of his trouble all right-then she need know nothing of it until it was all over, and would have no occasion to worry at all; suppose that he did not come out of it all right, she would know the worst soon enough, as she could do nothing to help in any event; and suppose that there had really been no trouble or danger-would you not have been making something worse than a fool of yourself? eh!" 
               This was a long speech, in a stable, during a winter storm, and in the neighborhood of eleven o'clock; and there was a shade of hypercriticism in it, not to say sternness, scarcely warranted by the circumstances. But Colonel Mowry, when he followed any profession (as he did not very regularly, his private fortune being ample), pursued that of a lawyer, and lawyers are well-known to be prone to both long speeches and severe cross-examinations. The Manxman, too, saw nothing improper in the length of the exordium: the only effect was to exalt the speaker very much in his opinion. 
               "See fwhat dhe larnin' is, now!" he said, scratching his head with a mingling of botheration and admiration. "Sure, I niver thought av dhat! Fwhat 'ud I be vexin' dhe misthress for, at all at all, whin, as yer honor says, it couldn't do dhe laste taste in life o' good! Next time, Misther Colonel, sthick a big pin in me, and may be I'll ondherstand widout frightening the darlints!" 
               Colonel Mowry could scarcely avoid smiling at the good nature and adaptiveness of his pupil, but the fit of cross-examination was over and there was something of more consequence beyond. 
               "Pshaw! you only did your duty, John, even if you took rather an imprudent way to do it," he said, after a moment of thought. "And now tell me-what reason have you to believe, as I see you do believe, that Judge Lake came away from Westerlo at all, late in the afternoon, when the weather looked so threatening?" 
               "Dhe weather didn't look so threatenin, I'm thinking, as to kape yer honor at home: fwhat for 'ud it be kapin' the masther from thryin' to get home when he was away from it-and this Christmas Eve?" 
               "But I left Hartsville earlier than he would have left Westerlo-some hours earlier; and that made all the difference in the world in the appearance of the sky." 
               "Did it, yer honor? No-I'm thinking not! Only at dusk dhere was only a few flakes and a mere fistful o' wind: yer honor thought it good enough to ride back all the way to Hartsville, for sure I was at dhe corner beyant when you spoke of havin out yer horse and going away, bekase-" 
                
               "Stop, there!" Colonel Mowry interrupted him, a little sternly. "If you overheard what passed between Mrs. Lake and myself at the door, mind that you never report it, even to Judge Lake, let alone any of your fellows, if you do not wish to have me come over to the Isle of Man and make the legs of some of you fly around worse than they do on the paddle-boxes of your steamers!" 
               "Sure I didn't mane"-the honest fellow began, sorry to have been misunderstood, and yet half-smiling at the illustration of the three-legged arms of the Isle of Man, which he understood so well; but the Colonel stopped him again, by an imperative question: 
               "John, you know more than you are telling-I see it in your manner, and this is no time for trifling. What reason have you to believe-no, to know-that Judge Lake would start for home to-night? Have you any?-or have you been making all this fuss about nothing?" 
               The Colonel spoke sternly, again. John Kelly did not answer for a moment, but twirled the straw in his hands, as if some comfort was to be derived from that employment of the fingers. Then he said, not meeting the eye of the questioner: 
               "Sure I have a rayson, Misther Colonel-a rayson altogether onbeknownst to the mistress-for knowin' that dhe master'd come back to-night; but faix I'd rather be skinned dhan tell it. It's maybe a bad habit I have, and a poor boy like me could aisly be ruined by the knowin' of it,-to listhen, sometimes, to fwhat others niver intend for my ares. Don't think too bad aiv me, yer honor, for sorra to me if I'd do the laste harrum wid dhe litthle knowledge dhat I gain whin dhere's nobody thinkin'. You won't be a bad friend to a poor boy, will you, Misther Colonel, for makin dhis little bit of a confession till ye?" 
               "Bad friend? no, you stupid fellow-not, at least, if you tell me, without too many words, what it was that you heard!" replied Colonel Mowry, a little impatiently. 
               "Ye see, I was misdoubtin' that yer honor'd be thinkin' dhe worse of me, bekase this is twicet, to-night, I've had to tell you of my knowin' what maybe I should'nt have heard," the Manxman could not avoid stopping to explain; then warned by the impatient look and gesture of the other, John communicated his little but important mystery in as few words as his nature would allow. 
               "Well, you see, yer honor, the masther's in a bit of trouble, dhat I'm thinkin' the misthress knows nothin' about-good luck to her sweet face!-sure she shouldn't know anything to tease or torment her, for a month of Sundays! It's too good that the Joodge has been, to many of his neighbors; don't ask me to tell you how I know dhis, for maybe I've said enough and too much already. He's well-to-do in the wurruld-sorra a doubt of it; but he's more than a bit pinched, be rayson of others that's not paid back the money he lint 'em, and he's too saft in the heart to disthress 'em as worse men would. Widout the misthress knowin' it, he's been borrowin' money to help others, trustin' to get it again in time; and it's niver come, as maybe yer honor knows that it niver does!" 
               "What is it that you tell me? Judge Lake in money troubles! Why that is impossible!" exclaimed the Colonel, more to himself than his auditor, and all other thoughts for the moment swallowed up in the painful suggestion. 
               "Sorra a less, yer honor, as you will see whin I tell you dhe rest, and how I know that he'd risk his life twinty times over, rather than not be at home the morrow-mornin'. 
               "Ye see, dhere's an ould fellow, named Stockwell,-faix, I'd like to lather him to blazes! Livin' half a mile beyant, that's been playin' a great frind to dhe Joodge, and lendin' him money -I'd not like to say how much, be rayson of not knowin', but a lump, onyway. Lately I've seen dhem talkin' together, when nobody was near, and once or twice I've heard high words-all of them, more be token, from that ould scapegrace. Yesterday morning ould Stockwell was at dhe house, and dhe Joodge came to dhe barn wid him, makin' believe dhat dhey wanted to look at some hay in the mow. Dhey wur in the lean-to, yonder, as it might be, and I was clanin' some harness beyant in dhe box. Maybe dhey didn't know that I was there, and-ye won't think dhe worse of a poor boy, will yer honor?-I didn't cough to tell'em!" 
               "John! John! that was eaves-dropping-prying into affairs that were no business of yours!" exclaimed the Colonel, severely, but this time the severity did not seem seriously to pain the Manxman, who continued: 
               "I heard dhat ould baste uv a Stockwell threatenin dhe masther, and saying that if dhe money-sora wan of me knows how much dhe dirthy stuff was-maybe four or five hundred dollars, for I mind dhat dhey said hundreds-dhat if it wasn't paid widin three days, he'd disgrace dhe masther by doing fwhat he called 'sellin' his paper.' Then the Joodge was angry-rest to me sowl, but he was!-and I heard him say to ould Stockwell dhat he'd pay dhat money on 'Christmas mornin', before tin o' dhe clock, af he sowld dhe shirt aff his back to do it, and dhat thin he'd niver have another dale wid him, till dhe last day he lived. Faix but the masther meant it, and sorra a doubt but he'd do fwhat he said!" 
               "And you believe that one of his errands at Westerlo was to get the money?-and that is the reason that you are certain he would come home to-night?" questioned the Colonel, taking in the serious purport of the story, even faster than it left the lips of the Manxman. 
                
               "Dhat is it percisely, yer honor; and fwhy shouldn't I be right? For d'ye see, more than a bit of his craps he does be sellin' at Westerlo-sometimes afore dhey are carted dhere, maybe; and whin he went away, yesterday, says I to myself 'John Kelly,' says I, 'divil a doubt dhat dhe masther's going to bring back the money wid him, and dhat dhe ould rascal'll see dhe last of his money-makin' out of a betther man dhan himself.' Don't ye see, sir, dhat Joodge Lake 'ud be comin' home to-night, no matther how harrud was the storm?-and dhat-" 
               "Yes, I see all, and a great deal too much, my good fellow!" responded Colonel Mowry, with an agitation in his voice that the other was not slow to perceive. "You have been eaves-dropping to some purpose, John, this time, and you have done well to tell me what you had heard. But, my God! what is to be done? And supposing that they have really left Westerlo, as seems probable, to how much danger would they be exposed? What would be likely to happen to them? How much bad road is there on the last half of the way?-you must have been driving the road lately, and ought to remember?" 
               "If dhere's danger, yer honor, and I'm afraid dhat dhere is-it is dhat dhey've got in among the Stone Mountain hills and gullies, before dhey knew how deep dhe snow was growin',-and dhat dhere, wid their only two horses and dhe heavy wagon, dhey have got snowed up, at the laste,-even if-Heaven save thim from dhat!-dhey haven't lost their way and met wid some thing worse than bein' merely snowed up." 
               "Heaven's, there is real danger, my boy, I am afraid!" echoed the Colonel to this startling explanation. "They may perish before morning, even with nothing worse happening to them than being closed up in one of those ravines-the lady at least-didn't Mrs. Lake say that one of the friends her husband was to bring, was a lady?" 
                
               "She did, yer honor-a lady and a ginthleman; some relations, I do be thinkin'." 
               Colonel Mowry, however important the subject under consideration, had been speaking with quite his usual deliberation, for he had been passing through that thought which precedes action. Now, however, he seemed to change, suddenly, into the energetic, rapid, almost nervous man, rarely seen by the outer world and only thoroughly known by his intimates. He took two or three rapid turns across the little stable-box, as he had two or three hours before been doing across the hall of the mansion; and he spoke, all the while, with a rapidity which almost startled the Manxman. 
               "Something must be done, and done at once-now that we understand what has occurred. They must not be left to perish, or even to suffer." 
               "Faix they must not!" broke in Kelly. "It was bekase I thought so, dhat I was spakin' to dhe misthress." 
               "Hold your tongue! don't you see that speaking to the mistress, as you call her, and worrying her, was the very last thing to be done? But you were right, otherwise, and so that more than balances. Let me see-you have a sled, have you not?-not a sleigh, that would pull apart in a snow bank, but a sled, for carting wood or stone?" 
               "We have a sled, yer honor, but it is in the mow, behind the sthraw." 
               "Then it must come out of the straw, in ten minutes. How many teams have you left, that you can depend upon?" 
               "We have a sled, yer honor, but it is in the mow, behind the sthraw." 
               "Then it must come out of the straw, in ten minutes. How many teams have you left, that you can depend upon?" 
               "We have three pairs, af dhere was anybody dhat could dhrive 'em; but sure I niver dhrove more nor a pair at oncet, in me born days." 
               "I can drive three pairs, as well as one, if necessary, and we may need them all. And now no more time is to be lost-perhaps haps too much has been lost already. But we want help-help-where can we find it?" 
               "Dhere are dhe two boys, Tom and Mike, in dhe house beyant, aslape: we must have dhim, and I'll go and wake 'em." 
               "You'll do nothing of the kind, for that would create an alarm in the house, and Mrs. Lake must know nothing until she knows the best or the worst. Where can we find help? Stop, I have one man at least, such as he is-the poor fellow by the kitchen fire. Now I have it; go to work, throw out that straw and uncover the sled, as fast as you can; I will go back to the house, send Mrs. Lake to bed with a fib, and be out within five minutes after she is gone, with the man from the fire. If we can only get away from the house without an alarm, we can rouse up some of the people in the houses along the road, and take them with us. Quick!-at the straw, like a man, and if you finish before I get back, get the harness on as many of the horses as you can. Keep your lantern: I can find my way out without it. And by the way, as I come through the kitchen, I shall grab all the coats I saw hanging there, for we may want them all. Now, then, here goes!" 
               The Manxman, fairly carried off his feet by the mingled command and vivacity of the speaker-would no more have thought of resisting one of his commands than of whistling against the north wind. He saw him dart out of the door, into the roaring and shrieking storm, and then setting down his lantern in a better place for light, commenced heaving out the sheaves of straw with a rapidity which promised soon to expose the bottom of the lean-to. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER V. 
               Colonel Mowry's Midnight Expedition. 
               Helen Lake was standing by the window, when Colonel Mowry reached the house,-looking out on the storm, as he had himself been doing at an earlier hour of the evening, and evidently gazing upon the whirling snow and listening to the roaring wind, without any anxiety for the absent or belief that they were involved in the war of the elements. Any solicitude which she might momentarily have entertained, had been dissipated by the timely words of the Colonel and the remembrance of her husband's many absences without notice, when in pursuance of his legal duties. The hour was already past, at which he would have arrived, leaving Westerlo at the expected time in the early evening; and of course no doubt could remain that he had judged the elements more carefully than herself, and taken shelter until morning. If she had an anxiety, at that moment, it consisted of a wonder whether some accident had not occurred to her guest's horse, keeping him so long at the stables,-and a recollection that she was very late in getting up-stairs to take her final glance after the comfort of her younger children. Possibly with these, and with the mere wish that her husband was at home, so that she could enjoy his society, there was a momentary thought of the "straggler" whom she had been induced by the words of the Colonel to shelter, and a feeling of thankfulness that she had not been allowed to consummate her thoughtless less intention and send the poor fellow out into that fearful night, to find other shelter or lack it-terrible suggestion, the latter, and one inducing a shiver! 
               Colonel Mowry, stamping the snow from his boots and lower garments, with the air of one who felt that he was done with exposure for that night-came into her presence and apologized for the length of time during which he had kept her waiting. He had been engaged in an unreasonably long conversation with John, concerning horses and other things (truth!), and had scarcely been aware how late it had grown (fib!). It was not late, for him, however: if his hostess would excuse him, he would remain up for an hour longer, and smoke his cigar and read a few pages by the still-cheerful fire. Would she allow him, and retire without waiting, as he could easily find his way, when ready, to the chamber he had already visited? 
               Mrs. Lake was one of those model hostesses who consider the full freedom of a guest a part of hospitality; and a recollection of the conversation of the earlier evening possibly induced her to wonder less than she might otherwise have done, at this desire for a midnight vigil. She made no comment, but gracefully acceded to the expressed wish, arranged a chamber-light on the mantel for her guest, then bade him good night and retired to her chamber and the company of her sleeping children. 
               That chamber-candle played a very different part from what the good lady expected of it. It served, after a few moments of silent smoking and watching against the possibility of her return, to guide the Colonel to his heavy winter overcoat, in the adjoining apartment, then along the same passage that he had before traversed, to the kitchen. It may be supposed that he trod lightly: a burglar, searching through the house for valuables to fill his plunder-pouch, could scarcely have avoided more carefully the possibility of a step that would awake attention. 
                
               There was still a comfortable smouldering of fire in the kitchen fire-place, and beside it slept the stranger. He did not seem, as has already been remarked in substance, to be past the active years of life; and the Colonel felt no more scruple in awaking him, to press him into that meritorious service, than he would have done with one of his own men when some night-attack threatened, in the by-gone Mexican days. 
               "Hist!"-the word spoken close to his ear, and repeated, as the speaker had often found that hissing sound the safest for sudden rousings, as less likely to induce loud words on awaking, than mere sonorous sounds. The sleeper woke at the second repetition, and started lightly up, thus proving that he had not been seriously fatigued. As his eyes opened, the Colonel put his finger to his lip, as a signal of silence understood by all nations. 
               "Hush!-not a word, loud enough for any one to hear!" 
               "Eh?" was the very natural expression of surprise. 
               "I think that you are foreign, but I heard you speak English, so that you must understand me. Have you had a good supper and been sleeping well?" 
               By this time the stranger was sufficiently awake to understand and answer in English, but with apatois which might have been either Italian or Southern German: 
               "Yes, good man, had much supper and so good-thank you all It is not morning yet, is it? No. The girl said that I might sleep here, and I would like to sleep yet more, if you please." 
               "Impossible!" said the Colonel-"nobody is going to sleep, here, to-night. Tell me-you are not sick, are you?" 
               "Sick?-no, good man; I have been very tired and hungry, but not sick-no. And I have had good supper and some sleep." 
               "Are you strong and nimble?-you understand me?" 
               "Strong, good man?" and the man so strangely interrogated could not avoid the continentalism of a shrug. "I am not so weak as one child, now that I am warm and have had good supper. Why you ask?" 
               "Listen, and I will tell you. You have eaten the bread of this house, and warmed by its fire. The man who owns it is in great danger, probably perishing in the dreadful snow, and we want help at once. Are you strong enough, and willing to go?" 
               The effect of this revelation upon the stranger was so sudden and startling that the other could scarcely credit eyes or ears. As if the last remnant of sleep had been that instant shaken away, he was on his feet, showing life, fire and energy, even in his miserable garments, and speaking with that low rapid utterance indicative of great excitement and anxiety. 
               "In the snow? Where is the good man of this house?-the other good man, I would say? Let us go to him, with delay of not one moment. In the snow? My God, I know the danger of the snow, so well as few men! I am Swiss, good man!-I have seen the snow of the great Alps, that is death when it moves-then we call it the avalanche; but the drift has the great danger as well. You have the sticks and the ropes, and maybe the bottles and the thick cloths for those who freeze? Come-the moments are hours: let us go to the man in the snow." 
               "But your clothes are thin: perhaps you will freeze, for the night is bitterly cold." 
               "I cannot freeze, good man, when I go to the man in the snow. The labor will keep me warm, after the good supper. Come!" 
               "Wait for a moment, then!" exclaimed Colonel Mowry, experiencing a sensation not usual to a man of his vigor-that of being literally carried off his feet by one more vigorous than himself. "Wait a moment-I know the road better than you do, and we shall need these." 
                
               A line of dark shadow on the kitchen wall showed where hung the rough coats belonging to the men; and in a moment they were grasped down from the nails that held them, one of them literally forced around the ill-protected shoulders of the Swiss, and the rest carried in arms. Extinguishing the light and opening the kitchen-door, they passed out again into the night and storm, and floundered through snow-banks middle deep, to the barn. 
               John Kelly had been vigorously at work, for the twenty minutes occupied in the Colonel's visit to the house. The great wood-sled, not before used that winter, lay bare, rough board body and all. A few vigorous pulls, and the clumsy vehicle was on the floor of the barn, with the Swiss obeying the Manxman's orders by filling it with straw, and the Manxman himself throwing the harness as rapidly as possible upon four of the best horses in the stable, the Colonel, at the last moment, judging it unadvisable to risk the tangling of gear of six, in the encounter with the deeper banks. But a few moments sufficed to complete this equipment and bring the animals around to the barn-floor, where they had last stood, probably, while the fragrant summer hay was being unloaded from the wagons they drew, in the June last perished. There, on the floor, they were harnessed to the sled, by the dim but sufficient light of the single lantern, which displayed the glorious luck of having been filled by John that very day; and there were deposited within the sled all the horse-blankets, old robes and older coats, with a coil of plough-line which the Swiss insisted might be found of use, though he could find no better substitute for the inevitable alpenstock which he evidently believed would be found necessary in scaling some Alpine glacier of the journey, than a couple of bean-poles which the Colonel in command permitted to go in, beneath the straw, under a sort of protest. 
                
               All was ready when they forced open the back doors of the barn, against which the loose snow had already piled and heaped itself to the depth of several feet, and made their way out into the drifts and the gale. The pampered horses shrank and shivered as the rough wind and the cutting snow drove into their eyes, half-blinding that brute sight which so shames human reason; but the hand of a man held the reins, and they sprang generously to their hard work, the moment that they ascertained the duty required of them. The opened barn-door needed to be closed again, though with less labor; and then, with the Colonel-driver standing up in the front of the sled, and the others snugged down in the straw and the horse-blankets,-they were "off and away," with what moderate speed was possible, the lantern, held by John, dimly showing through the coating of snow that in a moment made it opaque and half-useless. 
               It was the back door of the barn, by which they had emerged; and from it a lane led down for an hundred or two of yards, to the great gateway into the main road. At no hazard must the house be immediately passed, lest a chance peep by some sleepless weather-gazer should after all give the alarm and render all their precautions of no avail. And before they even reached the main road, they had a foretaste of what was to be endured, in the perfect wallow through five-foot snow-drifts, with the horses plunging and the sled nearly overturned, and with the biting snow stinging the eyes and the skin of all the face so severely that a moment's glance to windward was almost impossible. 
               There was an improvement in this feature, however, if none in the depth of the drifts. For from the moment of turning out into the main road, their, course lay westward towards the Stone Mountain range and consequently away from the sea and the wind. And then they floundered on with less real difficult though scarcely a rod gave opportunity to the four powerful horses for speed beyond a plunging walk. They had intended, as originally arranged between Colonel Mowry and the Manxman, to call at some of the small houses on the main road, rouse up the inmates, and demand the company and assistance of one or two of the young farm-hands who made their abode there; but the Swiss made up the three, and the Colonel remembered how every additional stone of weight would add to the work of the laboring horses; and so they gave no one notice, aroused no one, and plunged and floundered on, upon an expedition which many would have reckoned mad and many more shrunk from attempting under any circumstances. 
               It must have been between eleven o'clock and midnight when the sled turned into the main road leading towards the Stone Mountains; and so terrible were the obstructions presented by the drifts and the perilous gullies and stumps which they only partially covered to make more dangerous, while the blinding snow made lookout so difficult-that at least an additional hour had been consumed when Colonel Mowry knew that they had traversed about three miles and found that they were rising the first slopes of the range so dignified by local pride. It had been an hour of sharp endurance, for the gallant Colonel, standing in the front of the sled and subjected to the full fury of the storm, as well as doubly-exposed, every other moment, to the danger of pitching headlong under the heels of his horses, in one of the mad lunges of the swaying and tossing vehicle. Less monotonous, however, to the Swiss and the Manxman, who had become comrades in a very brief period, and whom even the blinding and choking snow did not prevent venting alternate marvels in personal experience, connected with the wild snowstorms of the Old World-the one among his native Alps, with the glacier and the avalanche his chief terrors, and the other with the shepherds whelmed and lost in the fierce sudden gusts and blinding flurries of the Scottish Western Highlands, where he had spent part of his later boyhood. The driver heard their muttered words, occasionally, even above the roar of the storm; but he, who remembered one night among the snows of the very county they were then traversing, more terrible than anything in the experience of either-he had nothing to relate, though without doubt within that hour he lived over again all the abject misery of that sad turning point in his life, so lately laid bare to Helen Lake. 
               It was at half a mile beyond the first rise, where a branch road left the main track, curving away towards one of the little hamlets of the mountain coal-burners, and leaving a somewhat sharp bend in the worm-fence at the junction,-that a sound smote the ears of all three, sending the blood at once to the heart of each, and inspiring a terror the more deadly because totally unaccountable. The very horses heard it, and seemed at first to drop back upon their haunches, then shiver and tremble as the driver drew rein to attempt listening. It was not a scream, it was not a moan, still less was it a groan, and yet it seemed to blend the more painful features of all three, speaking of terrible agony, and yet of a strength which could make it audible at long distance. 
               "Dhe heavens be good to us!-sure dhat was a groan, tho' I niver heard dhe like before!" at length exclaimed the Manxman, the first to find speech. 
               "I do not know, good men! I have not heard what you call the groan, like that, from any peoples!" said the Swiss, with a shake of the head. 
               Colonel Mowry was the last to speak, and between the first sound which had attracted their attention, and the time when he did so, that sound had been repeated, conveying recollections of long-past years and the battle-field, and informing him only too well of its origin. 
               "It surprised me, at first, but I understand it now," he said. "It is the cry of a horse, in suffering-that is it, between a scream and a groan. I heard plenty of that at Palo Alto." 
               "Dhat I may niver die, but it may be!" responded John Kelly, springing erect in the sled, relieved a little, it must be owned, by any suggestion which removed from his more-than-half-Irish nature the idea of the supernatural. "And sure if it is a horse, sorra wan of us knows dhat it's not the Joodge and his people buried up along wid dhe poor baste?" 
               "I do not know the sound, good men, but I know the direction. It comes from the right side of the road, just ahead, beyond the tree, there," said the Swiss, manifesting at once one of the commonest and most valuable gifts of the Alpine climber, whose ears need to distinguish directions quite as well as his eyes to measure the width of crevasses. 
               "To the right, there, and ahead, you say? We will see what it is, at all events!" replied the Colonel, who thereupon started forward his horses, with whip and voice, they plunging even more than usual, and showing renewed signs of terror in snorting and laying back their ears. Only fifty or an hundred yards, and then they were opposite and at only twenty or thirty feet distance from a dark object, close to the worm-fence, that alternately rose above the level of the snow-drift, and then disappeared, while the moaning scream sounded at their very elbows. 
               Without a word, when the sled stopped again, both the Manxman and the Swiss, relieved of the last fear of the supernatural, now that they saw a physical object to produce the sound-sprang over the side, into the drift, and weltered through it towards the singular spectacle, Kelly clinging to his lantern and the other grasping his bean-pole alpenstock with what seemed a mere mechanical movement. 
               More than half buried in the drift as that object was, the moment that they reached it, both saw that Colonel Mowry had been right in his opinion, though each nearly tumbled over the other in the momentary recoil, as the agonized beast, shown to be impaled on one of the sharpened stakes against which he had run in his frightened and plunging flight, gave out one of those terrible blendings of the brute and the human in the expression of suffering. It was a horse, true enough; and as the Manxman, making immediate use of his lantern, held it for one moment towards the head rising and falling in the spasms of agony, he saw something more that he at once communicated to the driver still holding the reins. 
               "Rest to me sowl, Misther Colonel, but I see dhe bridle on dhe poor baste, as well as dhe white blaze on his forehead; and it's Black Dick, dhe Joodge's off horse-divil a less! Look here till ye see the kilt ould fellow, dhat I'd give something to have a pistol to put out of his misery! He's snagged on the bluidy sthake, and dhe life's clane beat out of him; and och, wirra! wirra!-what has ever become of dhe Joodge and dhe rest?" 
               "Good heaven!-then the question of whether they started to come home is only too well settled!" exclaimed the alarmed Colonel, from the sled. "What can have happened! Oh, Judge, Judge!-my poor friend! Do you see nothing else than the horse? Here, John, come and hold the reins, while Suisse and I examine if there is anything else. Hand the lantern to him, and be quick." 
               The Manxman obeyed, floundering along (boots and all!) once more to the sled, while Colonel Mowry leaped into the drift and approached the still moaning and struggling horse. Then followed a close search, with eyes, lantern and feet, all around the body; but nothing was discovered, except that the collar and some broken portions of the harness still remained on the poor animal; and at last they were driven to the conclusion that whatever the catastrophe which had occurred, it had occurred elsewhere than on the spot of that sad encounter. 
               "And fwhat'll we do now, yer honor? Go on, and see fwhat we shall see?" suggested the Manxman. 
               "Go on? certainly, whenever we have become satisfied that there is nothing more, here!" replied the commander of the expedition. "Of course, if the accident, whatever it was, has not happened here, it has happened further up the hills, as they would have been coming in this direction, and the horse, if he was frightened, would have kept on in the direction he was going, and towards home." 
               "Yes-that is true-it is very good to go on!" profoundly remarked the Swiss, as he clambered back into the sled; while the remark of the Manxman, if not as profound, was certainly as forcible. 
               "Faix but yer a wonderful man, Misther Colonel, and sorra a thing but dhe book-larnin' it is dhat does it! Who else'd be thinkin' of dhat?-while it's as plain as the nose on your face when wance the wise wans do be puttin' it into yer head!" 
               There was nothing for it but to act upon the suggestion already made, to push on up the hills, westward, keeping the best possible outlook for another horse, a broken wagon, or any other object connected with the party now so certainly imperilled if no worse; and put once more in motion, the laboring horses floundered along, the ground rising more rapidly and the effort of the ascent visibly increased, while yet the storm roared and the thick snow fell, dashed and whirled, rather more wildly than with any signs of abatement. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER VI. 
               Redlands to the Rescue! 
               "Help! help! oh, can nobody hear me, and must they perish because I am too weak to find help and shelter for them! Oh! oh!-my head is so hot, while my breath fails and my hands and feet are ice. Father in heaven, what can I do, and what will they do!" 
               Through snow, reaching at times to his middle and at other times nearly to his arm-pits, Robert Lake was plunging and staggering, keeping eastward by little more than a blind instinct, for his breath came thick and with difficulty, and there was a mist falling over his brow, that seemed to him to be burning and really was freezing. Plunging and staggering-little else; for he made but small progress, and at last did little more than lift up his failing legs and set them down again in the same place in the deepening snow-yet struggling, groping on, with the last energies of sinking life. 
               What thoughts came to him, then, as such thoughts come to most of the imperilled, if they are vouchsafed leisure for thought, even amid agony! What sounds he heard and what sights he saw, really belonging to long past days-the singing of spring-birds and the ringing of church-bells in his ear, blended with the voices of the loved and loving; and in his eyes cheerful firelight and the pleasant pictures of harvest meadows, amid which children seemed to be playing-and sweeter and dearer than all; his last and fondest, his pet Katie! He had a dim memory that it was Christmas Eve, or the night following it, and that he was keeping the holiday season most strangely; and blended with all, that other thought, which we are not always blessed the more for escaping-of ill and defective service to Him who once stilled the storm and walked the raging waves of Galilee. 
               Then the mist cleared for an instant, and he muttered again, lifting the failing legs but a few inches and tottering to his last plunge. 
               "My God and Saviour!-I am dying! Spare me, or take me! My poor Helen!-Katie, my pet-" 
               Then one long cry, that seemed to embody all the little remaining strength of the failing, dying system: 
               "Help! help! help! Can nobody hear and help! Oh, my God! oh-" 
               One last plunge and stagger, with gasping breath, and the master of Redlands lay prone and still, with the snow beginning to weave a shroud over him, even more sudden, colder and whiter than that with which the poor fingers of clay shut away our bodies before committing them to the last repose of all the living. 
                
               "Papa! I want to see my Papa! Why don't Papa come?" 
               It was midnight, in that cozy chamber of Redlands, to which Helen Lake had retired when Colonel Mowry played at once so false and so true to her, and tricked her away to bed, to wait the coming of her husband in the morning. And the speaker was little three-year Katie, the dear pet and tyrant of the household, spoiling and spoiled by the father who loved her so dearly. Mrs. Lake, coming up to her chamber, after a glance at the older children in two neighboring apartments, had found the little pet half awake, and when fully awakened by her getting into bed and snugging the darling morsel up to her bosom, calling for "her Papa." Half an hour of broken sleep, and then this cry, more clearly and loudly given than before: 
               "Papa! I want to see my Papa!-good, dear old Papa, that kisses Katie! Why don't Papa come?" 
               "Hush, darling, and go to sleep, like a dear little girl, in the warm bed, with Mamma! Remember that to-morrow is Christmas, with all the pretty things for the babies. Then Papa will be home, and Katie shall see him. Now go to sleep like mother's darling." 
               There were warm kisses on the child's soft brow and lips, and they soothed and comforted her until she fell away to sleep. But they could not have filled all the little yearning heart: there must have been some need of those other lips then growing thick and cold with the rime of the last exhaustion,-or some clearer insight through darkness and space than that vouchsafed to older eyes; for still in her sleep she murmured: 
               "Papa! I want my good Papa!" 
                
               Perhaps half a mile had been laboriously traversed, by the anxious three in the sled,-their spirits, now, under a shadow more awful than that of the storm, because it was no longer doubtful that some serious if not fatal calamity had occurred, while they had obtained no clue whatever to the place of its occurrence or the direction in which to look for any possible survivor. Perhaps half a mile of that laboring, plunging progress, in which the horses seemed to sympathize with those who employed them, if anything could be judged by their groaning breath and staggering motion; and then occurred what was not likely to be soon forgotten by either of the actors in the strange scene. The Manxman had just been speaking, in a discouraged tone, very foreign to his usual habit: 
                
               "Sorra wan of me knows fwhere we are goin', or fwhat we are to do when we get dhere! Be the powers o' Moll Kelly's cat!-I'm thinkin' they've gone over dhe edge, up dhere at dhe Long Slope, fwhere dhere's divil a bit of a rail, and are dead and kilt altogether; but then fwhat 'ud dhe horse be doin' away from dhe rest, at all at all! Colonel, yer honor, sure it just bothers me intirely." 
               Just then the Swiss spoke hurriedly and suddenly, in the instant following the Manxman's close: 
               "Hush, good men! Hark!" 
               Colonel Mowry drew the reins and the laboring team came to a stand-still, all the three listening, the next moment, for any sound that might be heard above the roaring of the storm. They heard nothing-at least two of them; and the Colonel demanded, after a brief pause: 
               "What did you think that you heard, Suisse? Any voice, or the screaming of another horse?" 
               "I may be wrong, good men, but I did think that I heard some one calling 'help! help!' so far away and so faint as if it had been from the top of a mountain, when I stood in the valley." 
               "In what direction?" demanded the Colonel. 
               "I should think it would be to the left, there, and fifty or an hundred rods ahead." 
               "Sorra a thing I heard, batin' dhe wind and dhe storm," remarked Kelly. 
               "Nor I-I think that you must have been mistaken, my friend," coincided the Colonel. "There are so many noises in the storm, you might easily have been deceived." 
               "I may have heard what was not, good men, but I do not believe so. Let us go on, to that place." 
               There was nothing else to do than to follow that sensible advice vice, little probability as there seemed of its bringing forth anything except disappointment. So the laboring four-in-hand (frozen hand, by that time!) was once more set in motion, and for perhaps ten minutes they struggled on, through what seemed deeper drifts than any before encountered, while at the elevation then reached, the gale seemed roaring with redoubled fury, if such an increase was indeed possible. 
               Then occurred the second special scene in this strange drama of human intellect made to rival the instinct of the brute, through what influence of parentage and the long training of centuries, who can tell? 
               The Swiss sprang up in the sled, and spoke eagerly and with great anxiety, even grasping the arm of the Colonel in his eagerness. 
               "Be so good as stop. Here is where I heard the cry. A man is here, I know; but I do not know if he is alive or dead." 
               "Why, what have you seen or heard?" asked the astonished Colonel, mechanically drawing the reins, but turning on him with some impression that he must be mad-an impression which it is more than possible that John Kelly fully shared. 
               "I have not heard any sound for some time; and I have not seen anything but the snow and the wooden fences. But, good men, I have been among the snow-fields of the White Alps, and-how can I tell you? Permit me-I will show you if I am not right. Come with me, good man John, only a little. Yonder-he is there!" 
               He pointed, as he spoke, towards the fence, to the left of the broad road, perhaps thirty or forty feet from the sled, where no eye could see more than the dark fence, with the tops of the rails lined with snow, and what seemed a level plain between. He pointed, and then, grasping his impromptu alpenstock, leaped over the side of the sled into the drift, the Manxman springing after him, and following with the lantern, compelled even more by a feeling that he could not himself understand, than by curiosity. 
               Ten-fifteen feet through the drift, and they discovered nothing. Twenty, and the Swiss motioned for the Manxman to come closer with the light. The latter obeyed, and even a colder chill than had ever crept over him in his own land, at the stories of the banshee, made his blood creep, as he saw the other pointing with his one unoccupied hand to a little hillock, a trifle higher than the drift immediately about it, and rounded into something like the shape of a turfed grave. 
               "You see that small heap? There is a man under it: Perhaps dead, maybe alive-who knows? only God and our Lady!" 
               With the last word, and before the Manxman could fully realize what he was doing, the Swiss was on his knees in the deep drift, scraping away the snow with his hands, uttering no word, but seeming in what would have been called a sort of possession, in the days of visible demons. Only a moment more, and when even yet the other had not stirred from his surprised position, four or five feet away, he lifted from the under snow a dark body, and only spoke when he had the head and shoulders on his knee. 
               "This is the man; I said that it was so. I think that he is dead. Come see, good man John!" 
               John Kelly did not need the adjuration to spring forward with the lantern; and as the hand of the Swiss had swept away a part of the snow from the face and head of the body, what the servant saw was only too quickly told in the wild cry that rang out and brought the Colonel, now regardless of his tired horses, leaping from the sled into the drift: 
               "Och-Howly Mother! That I should have lived to see dhis! Sure it is the masther, dead and stiff as a sthake!" 
                
               "Good God! can it be possible!" was all that the surprised and horrified friend could utter, as he came hurrying through the drift to the body; and then the three, acting in concert, though almost without speech in that awful presence of death, in a moment or two had removed what remained of Robert Lake to the sled in waiting. 
               What remained? There was no doubt, when they lifted him, of what really remained. Frozen to death, beyond a question-the eyes half-closed, the lips and whole face rigid, no sign or motion of life. But Heaven is very merciful, sometimes, at the very moment when its dispensations seem to have fallen most heavily; and "what remained" of Judge Lake had fallen into hands at least disposed to contest the question with the conquerer. The hand of the Colonel, not yet quite frozen, went down beneath the quite frozen vest, and found the spot where there had been so lately a beating heart. Had been?-where there was! He felt the flutter, distinctly, even if no more than a flutter. Instantly he grasped the wrist, and began to rub it with violence. 
               "The heart beats! He is not yet quite dead! Quick! we must get those blankets around him. Oh, why did not some of us have brains enough to think of bringing liquor from the house? We might have known that it would be needed! If I had but a little liquor, now, to force between his teeth-" 
               "Is it liquor yer honor manes? Faix, there's not a dhrop widin miles, maybe; but if a dhrop of whiskey'd do any good-" 
               "Whiskey, you blockhead? why that is liquor. If we had even that-" 
               "And more be token, so we have!" 
               A bottle of whiskey came out of the Manxman's pocket at that juncture, and was grasped by the Colonel with so much joyful eagerness that it is to be feared he forgot any thanks to the provider vider. Nor is it clear, nor probably will it ever be clear, how John Kelly came to have that bottle of whiskey in his pocket. Possibly it may have been grasped at the last moment before starting, from some secret medicine-chest about the stable, in anticipation of just such an event as was just then occurring; possibly he had grasped it, at the same juncture, with a very different motive-that of fortifying the inner man, occasionally, against the freezing influences besieging the outer; it is even possible that he may have been in the bad habit of carrying such a thing in his pocket! Let us not inquire too closely, but hope and believe that he had lately been perusing some profound work on the resuscitation of partially-perished people, and that the opportune possession of the bottle marked him as a worthy, though amateur, member of the Humane Society. 
               Opportune that possession was, to John Lake, as he will probably recognize to the day when he passes beyond the power of stimulants. Within a moment after finding it in his hands, the Colonel had forced some between the set teeth, and in a moment more found that there was a little capacity to swallow. The two men were meanwhile rubbing the wrists with violence, while the body and all the lower limbs were thickly wrapped in the blankets and old coats that lay in the bottom of the sled; and, not to leave on the mind of the reader any portion of that anxiety which, during those moments, drove his rescuers almost mad, not many elapsed before the sensibility lost through exhaustion and torpor came slowly creeping back. Judge Lake breathed, and opened his eyes with one long sigh, which seemed like that of departing instead of returning life. 
               Of course his first words, when he became able to speak, were broken and incoherent; and it was yet some moments before, by the light of the friendly lantern, he recognized Colonel Mowry and the Manxman, to whom he was indebted (solely, as he believed) for his rescue. But as strength came to him, there came also a fearful recollection of the circumstances which had brought him into the very presence of death; and when the faltering lips had explained so much, it will be easily believed that the half-beaten horses were once more put to their difficult work, for the measurement of at least two miles more of dangerous drift, additional saving of life being possible at the end. 
               But a few words of explanation could be given by the exhausted man, then and there. But his anxious auditors learned, as the laboring horses toiled on toward the summit of the Stone Mountain range, enough to advise them of the danger and possible death of two others-the relatives who had left Westerlo in his company. 
               It had been very late, as then and afterwards explained, when they left the railroad town, and the storm was even then beginning, though with little prospect of the wonderful violence to which it afterwards attained. (Two of his auditors knew, though he little suspected the fact, that there were other reasons than care for the anxiety of his family, and desire to be at home, urging the Judge to push through to Redlands that night, at whatever inconvenience). 
               The storm had burst upon them in full violence, a few miles out from Westerlo, and after the night had become as dark as was possible for one of snow. The terrible wind and cutting snow had not only made suffering for himself and the two relatives accompanying-an elderly gentleman and a lady, but rendered any knowledge of the road almost impossible, especially when the snow deepened into drifts and filled up the gulleys that would otherwise have been landmarks. But all three had been warmly wrapped; much dependence had been placed on the instinct of the horses, and the probable early abatement of a storm beginning with such violence; and so they had struggled on with some feeling of danger, but a belief that returning would be almost equally difficult with going on, as more than half the distance had been traversed and no near shelter was attainable; when- 
               The catastrophe. At least the catastrophe for the time. Blinded by the storm, and the way almost completely lost in the depth of the drifts, they had driven, without being aware of the fact, to the very edge of the unfenced precipice-how deep, there was no measurement to tell-called the Long Slope, where Black Hill, the highest of the Stone Mountain range, fell away sheer downward into the coal bottoms of Carter's Valley. Then sudden fright on the part of the horses, rearing and a few plunges on what proved to be the very verge, and while driver and passengers were almost equally paralyzed, one horse had managed to break away his harness and escape (to meet the fate which we have already seen, on the cruel fence-stake, two miles distant) and the other, waggon and occupants, toppled over the edge, falling into what they believed to be instant death! 
               A deep enough fall, and one terrible enough, certainly; and one that probably would really have been death to all, but for the friendly snow which had before been their enemy, that now softened and broke their descent over rocks and fallen trees, pitching, rolling and tumbling to the bottom. 
               They had found themselves all alive, except the poor horse, which unfortunately fell under and was crushed by the heavy wagon-all alive, and not seriously hurt, though bruised and half-stunned. But in what a situation! At approaching midnight, in that terrible cold and storm, in a place from which there seemed no possibility of extrication until morning at the earliest. Above them rose the sharp declivity they had descended so suddenly-difficult enough to climb in broad day-light and the absence of snow; certainly impossible for the limbs of an old man and a nervous woman; around them a waste of snow, bounded by impassible thickets, except where some blind road led away to the coal-pits, hopeless of discovery through the blocking snow and the driving storm. 
               Then had followed an unexpected discovery-nothing less than the remains of a coal-burner's hut, blown half to pieces, and yet affording some pretence at shelter from the blast. Into that, acting under the Judge's advice, his incapable relatives had crept, to wrap themselves as closely as possible and hope for the coming of relief in time to save them from death by freezing, while Judge Lake himself had taken the only means which promised that relief-forced the powers of his middle-age, climbed the side of the ravine after nearly an hour of deadly exertion and with an hundred falls and stumbles-then tottered and plunged on towards what he believed to be the nearest houses on the road-with what an apparent end to his own life and the hope of saving the lives of the others, we have already seen. 
                
               They were alive and not beyond hope, when, led by the Swiss, who seemed to divine their location by the same intuition which had before guided him, the three rescuers, leaving the half-recovered Judge in the sled, scrambled, plunged and fell down the side of the precipice to their aid. The lady had finally become insensible, through cold and exhaustion, but the old man had borne up wonderfully well and still kept strength enough to fold the lifeless form near to him and try to impart some portion of his own failing warmth. 
               It was a terrible task-that of carrying the insensible woman up the rugged ascent, and assisting up the older and weakened limbs. Under ordinary circumstances the three, individually and collectively, would have been incapable of such exertion; and it may be doubted whether even the incitement of that hour could have given them strength enough, but for the presence of the Swiss, to whom the snow and the precipice seemed to bring life instead of exhaustion. He it was who carried most of the weight of the lady, at first, and who before the ascent was accomplished carried her altogether, his bean-pole alpenstock of more use in the operation, than any of the others could have believed. 
               The sled was reached at last, and some portions of Kelly's remaining whiskey assisted friction and wrappings in bringing back the flickering life to the lady and restoring warmth to the chilled limbs of the elder. Then the storm was faced, in attempting the return to Redlands; and though the drifts may have been yet deeper than they had been when traveling westward, and though the storm still whirled and blinded furiously-what was all this to them, now, with such a result to their expedition? 
               It need scarcely be said what joy filled the heart of Colonel Richard Mowry, during that trying drive homeward-in the consciousness of having aided in saving at least one life so dear and valuable,-though he, more than all others, realized that but for the Swiss, the man once turned from the door of Redlands, the chances would have been a thousand to one against saving the lives of the perilled. The rescued themselves were naturally too exhausted for speech: all that could be hoped for them, was safe arrival at the mansion. The Swiss, still hugging his alpenstock, crouched among the straw at the back corner of the sled, like the insignificant being that he once more felt himself; and the Manxman was the only person who during more than one-half the laborious and painful struggle homeward broke the silence: he could not be restrained from occasional ejaculations to the "Howly Mother!" and muttered rejoicings over the safety of "dhe masther!" 
                
               "Blessed Saviour, I thank Thee! Thou hast been a thousand times more merciful to me than I deserved. I have been cruel and thoughtless, while those I loved were in peril, from which they have only been extricated by the noblest friends in the world! Forgive me, Blessed Saviour, for Thine Own Name's sake, and make me grateful all my life!" 
               It was Helen Lake who thus accused herself and implored the Infinite; and she was on her knees, with frightened but happy Katie nestled on one shoulder, in the hours that preceded the daylight of the Christmas morning. Half an hour before she had been awakened and learned all so narrowly escaped, and clung hysterically to the husband who told her how he lay in the Valley of the Shadow of Death, and but for these could only have emerged on the side of silence. The revulsion was over, now; and her guests disposed of, she was going back to her bed, to be joined in a moment by the "good Papa" of so-nearly-orphaned Katie; but the omen for her future life must have been a good one, that she thus knelt, confessed and implored. If she, the fond and good wife and mother, had faults that needed severe lessons before she could put them away-let us hope and believe that in the plain, generous statement of Colonel Mowry, as to the real merit of the rescue, made before them all at the moment of re-union, she had learned that one lesson so sadly learned by the Colonel himself long years before, and that she was not likely again to forget the precept of the Book of Books, which inculcates the reception of strangers, not only for the sake of divine charity itself, but because we sometimes "entertain angels unawares." 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER VII. 
               Colonel Mowry's New Christmas. 
               There was a stranger scene than any of the foregoing, taking place at one hour of the Christmas morning which followed the occurrences already detailed,-in the same parlor at Redlands, in which we first saw Helen Lake and her guest. Her guest was there, and not alone; but his companion was a lady very little like the Judge's wife. 
               She seemed to be thirty or thirty-five years of age, and bore in her aspect that peculiarity which writers have been fond of designating as the impress of the "old maid," though in the present instance the same difficulty exists which has always existed, of explaining in what the peculiarity is found. She was certainly not less handsome than she would have been at the same age, a happy wife and mother of children; and she could not, in that case, have been more amiable-looking; and yet there was that in the softly-rounded face, on which some lines of care had impressed themselves-in the sad brown eyes and the abundant dark hair worn low on the forehead and braided away behind-something that indefinably suggested that description of only-half-developed though marvelously-useful womanhood. 
               There was nothing in the lady's appearance, at that juncture, to indicate that within twelve or fourteen hours she had been lying in insensibility, after a dangerous fall, in the night and the snow, only clear of the apprehension of immediate death because she had passed beyond the power of realizing her own danger. There may have been a shade of weariness and langour on her face, and in that may have lain something of what the superficial eye would have been likely to reckon as old-maid-hood; but it was quite evident that she possessed one of those natures, physical and mental, certain to recuperate with extraordinary power, and so to be depended upon for endurance if not for marked activity. 
               It has already been said that her companion was Colonel Richard Mowry; but it has not been said that they were alone in the large room, and that the two were sitting hand-in-hand, very little like people who had met for the first time only the night before, unless in their cases gratitude and protection were rapidly ripening into the warmest friendship. Nor has it been necessary to say that the well-dressed and well-kept man of forty looked very unlike what he had done, could the same eyes have looked upon him, in the exhaustion, the snow and the borrowed old coat of three o'clock that morning. 
               "Can I believe my own senses, Miss Eastwood-no, Amelia-no, I must come back to the old name-Milly!-can I believe my senses at finding you here and finding you under such circumstances?" the Colonel was saying, at the moment when attention is called to the pair. 
               "I hope and trust, Richard-you see that I do not have so much trouble to come back to the names of the old days, as you!" was the reply, "that I may be able to convince you of my identity, and of my knowledge that but for you, before this time I should neither have borne that name nor any other." 
               "Hush, please, on that point! But for others, whatever might have been my will to assist my friend Lake and those accompanying him, I should not have succeeded in saving either of you: so let us speak of something else-of your new name, which sounds so oddly, and which has no doubt been the cause of my failing to know whether you were dead, married-" 
               "Married, Richard!" There was pain in the tone and trembling in the words. 
               "I really beg your pardon, Milly, a thousand times!" Colonel Mowry exclaimed, hurriedly. "There are words that should never be spoken, between some persons, and I will try not to offend you again." 
               "Offend? oh, Richard, how can you say that?" 
               "No, not 'offend,' then-'pain'-that is the better word." 
               "Yes, 'pain' is the better word; you might indeed pain me." 
               "'Milly Walters' changed to 'Milly Eastwood,' then, many a long year ago." 
               "Yes, when Mamma's wealthy Uncle Eastwood took me away to Europe with him, shortly after her death-" 
               Colonel Mowry sprang from his chair, dropped the hand he was holding, and walked hastily across the room, with something like the same agitated air he had shown the evening before, under the influence of the same line of thought with that now induced. Milly Eastwood rose, too, and approached him as he walked, but with her face almost divinely pitiful. 
               "Richard, it is Christmas Day-that day which should remind us of the One true, candid and good. Let us have no misunderstandings, to-day of all days!" 
               "Misunderstandings, Milly? I do not quite take the sense in which you use the word." 
               "You do not? No-I suppose that you cannot. Will you not sit again? It seems so much more like the old time, when we sit side by side!" 
               Colonel Mowry obeyed her, almost mechanically; but he said, as he once more resumed his seat-not the hand he had dropped: 
               "Milly, perhaps we had better not speak of the old times, or think of them so very much." 
               "You think not, Richard? Perhaps not, but I am going to expose myself to perhaps even a worse misunderstanding than any of the past, because I do not agree with you." 
               He looked at her closely, and with something like a startled expression in his face, but he did not answer a word. 
               "Now for what I believe to be my trial, and what may be my punishment! You spoke of my being possibly married: are you married?" 
               "I! Good heaven, Millie!" 
               There was almost a cry in the first word, and the second exclamation was little else. Somehow it did not startle the questioner-rather brought an expression of pleasure to the sad eyes. 
               "You are not on the verge of being so, or under any obligation to any one, to marry?" 
               "Obligation? No!" hoarsely, and not too amiably. 
               "Then suppose that you marry me!" 
               Colonel Mowry's eyes grew a little like those of a beast when hunted: there seemed something dangerous in them. 
               "Milly Walters!-for I cannot call you Milly Eastwood now!" he cried, once more springing from his chair, "how dare you ask me that question-you of all women!" 
               She did not rise-she only answered him in a word: 
               "Why?" 
               "Because once, many years ago, when we were both younger and fuller of hope, I committed a great fault, and it separated us forever! Because then, whatever pains you took to hide the fact, you shrank from the man whom you considered the unintentional murderer of your uncle and your mother!" 
                
               Milly Eastwood left her chair, then, and yet she did not rise: she merely sank to the floor, on her knees, with eyes and arms upraised, as she said, in a voice broken by emotion: 
               "Richard Mowry, hear me, hear on my knees and in the presence of that heaven which my mother's daughter would not be likely to defy wantonly-as I swear to you that your own action and yours alone separated us!-that I never shrank from you, or blamed you, for even one moment!-that what you saw in my face was only love and pity for the suffering of your sensitive nature!-that I have waited, alone, all these years, hoping for nothing else than that some day we should meet again, and that then-" 
               "Milly! Milly! my own Milly!" 
               Colonel Mowry was on his knees, beside the kneeling girl, his arms around her and his lips raining kisses on her upturned brow and cheek, while between those kisses burst forth the words so long suppressed: 
               "God bless and reward you, my dear girl! Oh, what a weight you have lifted from my heart! How blind I have been, and how truly good you are! Will you indeed and in truth be my wife, and help me regain something of what has been lost in all these long, many years of misunderstanding and sorrow?" 
               "I will be your wife, Richard, at any day you may name-tomorrow, if you wish. I gave my soul to you, long ago: take me when you will!" 
               "To-morrow? Why not to-day?" cried the enraptured and half-maddened boy of forty. "Do you not remember that we were to have been married on Christmas evening? I hold you to your promise: if there is a clergyman to be found within twenty miles of Redlands, we shall be married to-night!" 
               Another of the rescued entered the room-just as the two had released each other and were standing with hands in holding Neither made any motion to withdraw, though the face of the lady flushed a little under the full consciousness of what was coming. 
               "Mr. Eastwood," said the Colonel, "with your permission, your grand-niece and myself, who should have been married many years ago, are to be married to-night! Have we your consent?" 
               "Humph! I suppose that there wouldn't be much use in my withholding it!" replied the old man, "even if I was disposed to withhold anything from the man who saved both our lives. She is a good girl, sir, and I understand, now, why she has refused so many favorable offers. Make her as good a husband as she deserves, and I hope that you will not consider it an insuperable objection that she happens to be my heiress." 
                
               Before the Christmas Tree was unveiled that night in the back-parlor of Redlands, and little Katie saw that wax doll for which she had been hoping and half-dying, two or three things had occurred, of no minor importance as concluding this relation. 
               
                  First: A man whom John Kelly graphically designated as "ould Stockwell," had visited the house, earlier in the day, been paid his demand, and ordered never to set his foot within the doors of any honest man again. 
               
                  Second: The Manxman had joined with Colonel Mowry in showing the share which the Swiss had borne in the rescue; and Judge Lake, shaking him warmly by the hand and thanking him from the bottom of a grateful heart, had offered him a home and well-paid employment, both of which he had accepted most willingly. 
               
                  Third: Good old Dr. Rowley had been dragged through the deep snow, at the heels of the now abated storm, to Redlands: and Richard Mowry and Milly Walters Eastwood had been duly married, with quite the proper amount of felicitations and rejoicings. 
                
               So that around the Christmas Tree assembled not only grateful hearts but happy ones, amid a scene rendered doubly pleasant by the recollection of dangers so lately and so narrowly escaped; and there is reason to believe that there could not have stopped at the gate of Redlands that night, any wretch so poor, miserable, degraded, or even guilty in the past,-that the precept of the loving and benevolent Christmas time could have been forgotten and the suppliant Turned from the Door.
                
             
         
       
       
          
             
            LOOK OUT FOR THE NOVEL OF THE PERIOD! 
            WITH ITS EXTRAORDINARY EXPOSES OF LIFE AND SOCIETY! 
            HARRIET'S ARMS, 
            OR; THE PRINCE OF WALES IN AMERICA. 
            TO BE PUBLISHED IN FEBRUARY OR MARCH NEXT, BY CLAXTON, REMSEN & HAFFELFINGER, 819 &821 MARKET ST., PHILADELPHIA, PENN. 
          
          
            WORKS OF THE UNITED STATES WATCH COMPANY, 
            MARION, NEW JERSEY. 
            
                
                  (253 feet front, Iron and Glass.) 
               
             
            GILES, WALES & CO., MANUFACTURERS OF All the grades of American Watches, PENDANT WINDERS AND KEY WINDERS, Both Nickel and Frosted Movements. 
            Constantly on hand full lines Gold, Silver, Diamond Set and Magic Cases; also, 1-4, 1-5 Split and Fly Back Seconds, for Timing Horses. Stem Winding Minute Repeaters, with 1-4 or 1-5 Second combined. For Sale by the Trade generally. Wholesale Rooms, 
            No. 13 MAIDEN LANE, NEW YORK, AND GILES BRO. & CO., 142 LAKE ST., CHICAGO. 
          
          
             
            THE Mutual Life Insurance Company OF NEW YORK. 
            F.S. WINSTON, President. 
            Nos. 144 & 146 Broadway, Corner of Liberty Street. 
            Assets, $32,000,000.00. Cash. 
            DIVIDENDS ANNUALLY, AND AVAILABLE IMMEDIATELY AS CASH IN PAYMENT OF PREMIUM, OR TO INCREASE THE AMOUNT OF INSURANCE, AT THE OPTION OF THE INSURED. 
             
               RICHARD A. McCURDY, Vice-President. 
               SHEPPARD HOMANS, Actuary. 
               JOHN M. STUART, Secretary. 
             
          
       
   
