
    ----CITATION----
        Anonymous. Our Novel .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC7370
    ----FULL TEXT----
         
       
          
             
            
                
             
             
            
                
             
          
          
             
             
               OUR NOVEL 
             
            BY SIX AUTHORS 
            Souvenir 
            HAND-PRESS EDITION. 
            Complimentary to the Authors 
            1874 
          
          
             
            THIS WORK A SOUVENIR OF THE CHICAGO CONFLAGRATION Owes its origin to that memorable catastrophe, and being published without consultation of the Authors is ADMIRINGLY DEDICATED By the Editor TO REBUILT CHICAGO 
          
          
             
             
            CONTENTS: 
             
               CHAPTER I.--How they met. 
               CHAPTER II.--Now you see Him. 
               CHAPTER III.--And now you Don't. 
               CHAPTER IV.--Here He is again. 
               CHAPTER V.--A much needed Explanation. 
               CHAPTER VI.--Finale--As usual. 
             
          
       
      
         
            Our novel 
             
                
               
                   
                
                
               CHAPTER I. 
               HOW THEY MET. 
               "YOU see, Ned, every man ought to do something for his fellow-beings; every mail has a mission." 
               "Hm,--am I to consider you mine, Harrington, or vice versa?
                
               "Pshaw, that's not what I mean; I don't think I'm a genius, Ned." 
               "Don't you?" interposed the other. 
               "No," returned his companion, with slightly heightened color, "but so many men now-a-days, young men in particular, are obliged to devote themselves to business, that any one, who, like myself, is mercifully spared all that, should show his gratitude to his relations, and to Providence, by trying to do something for those who are not so fortunate, to elevate their minds; in a word, to educate them. Now my essay entitled 'How Man can improve Men' is, as you will perceive, a very suggestive subject." 
               "Very. The first suggestion I should make is, that most men find it all, and more than they can do to improve themselves." 
               Apparently rather taken aback by this remark, the author of the essay made no reply, and the two young men continued
                   tinued their walk through the quiet orchard, watching the shadow of the clouds and trees sweep over the long grass at their feet. 
               The last speaker, Ed Norton, was a slender little fellow; with a pair of merry, brown eyes, which at this moment looked as though they would like to be angry if they only knew how, and a little wisp of a brown mustache which he was pulling viciously. 
               The other, Sidney Harrington, was much taller than his companion, and looked, from his extreme slightness, even more than his real height, while the paleness of his face, and the evident lack of muscle in the long, lank form, inclined you to place him on the invalid list, and, of course, if you were a woman, to give him, gratis, a large amount of sympathy. There was besides, something interesting in 'the large blue eyes surmounted by eye-glasses, and set off by the long, blonde side-whiskers and mustache; the fair face, with its dreamy expression, presenting a marked contrast to Norton's browned and animated visage, as he trudged on beside him, taking about four steps to his friend's one. 
               "I can't for my life see," remarked Norton, after a moment's pause, "when you've come within one of having brain fever, and have been sent down to this quiet, one-horse place to recruit, and, what's worse, brought me with you, why in the world you can't keep still." 
               "Because I can't, thank Heaven; I'm not an oyster like you." 
                
                
               "Thank Heaven, I'm not a Pegassus like you; I wish some "one would put you in the pound." 
               "No you don't, Ned, for then you'd have to pay my expenses out." 
               "I'd be hanged if I would,-but seriously, Harrington, a stranger would be strongly inclined to think you a maniac,. This morning you insisted on taking a walk on the beach, though the sand was blistering, and the sea bright enough to make one stone blind for a week." 
               "It was perfectly beautiful; but catch you going out of your way to enjoy nature!" 
               Catch me promenading about in the broiling sun, when I can just as well walk in the shade. If I had been left to my own devices, I should have stayed quietly in the house." And Ed looked longingly over his shoulder toward the rambling, old-fashioned boarding-house. Which was growing beautifully less to his vision. 
               "Nothing would have induced me to stay there another minute; I was bored to death." 
               "Though you only arrived last night!" 
               "True." 
               "Are you going to tramp about much in this way during your stay?" 
               "I don't know." 
               "Are you going to drive those, horses you had sent down?" 
                
               
                   
                
                
               "Possibly,-I doubt it." 
               "Shall you fish?" 
               "Heaven forbid!" 
               "May I ask why?" 
               "Oh yes, it's no secret; but the fish are never, under any circumstances, attracted by my bait." 
               "How do you intend to exist until your physician allows you to return to the city? 
               "By making you miserable. I shouldn't think you'd begrudge me that pleasure, when I've been so ill." 
               "You might amuse yourself more profitably." 
               "Exactly what you won't let me do. Now in this essay on How man can improve'"- 
               "Oh, confound all that rubbish! Throw it into the fire. It was writing such trash that made you ill in the first place,-and no wonder." 
               "The blood of the Martyrs is the seed of the Church." 
               "True, but a question as to who were the Martyrs, and your improved man might say, as did Paul de Kock to his friend, 'I like you very much, my friend, but I know you by heart, and just what you want to say to me; if we should talk about something else now, it would be much more amusing for me.'" 
               "I declare, Norton, I believe you would see your fellow-men grovel in ignorance forever." 
                
                
               "Yes, let them grovel; some worms must do it, better my brother than I. 
               "I wish you had some feeling." 
               "I wish you had some common sense." 
               Here the two friends(for friends they were in the best sense of the word, as was proved, by, Norton's giving up all, his plan for the summer, to accompany his friend to the quiet little watering-place, and Harrington refusing to stir without him) might perhaps have become serious in their dispute, if they had not been interrupted by a cry, half of laughter, half of distress. 
               "Some one is in need of help!" exclaimed Harrington. And quickening their pace, the two, young men soon came upon a rather peculiar but very pretty picture. 
               The part of the orchard which lay before them, was planted with cherry-trees, and the gold and scarlet fruit weighed the branches almost to the ground. 
               In the long grass under the tree, sat a young lady with soft brown braids and curls, but it was impossible to tell what her features were like, so convulsed were they with merriment, as she looked up into the tree above her, where, amid the green leaves, could be discerned a quantity of auburn hair, a small, white hand and wrist, a mass of white drapery, and a very pretty little slipper and exquisitely turned ankle. 
               "I told you it would be so, Blanche," cried the young
                   lady under the tree, "I hope you will take my advice next time." 
               "Indeed I will; but what am I to do? The expression 'up a tree will have a double significance for me after to-day." 
               "I am sure I don't know what you will do," said the first speaker, rising literally with the emergency, "can't, you possibly get down?" 
               "Not possibly. My overskirt is wound round and round this branch behind me; I am lost, to a certainty." 
               "Can I be of any assistance?" asked Harrington, coming forward and lifting his hat. There was a simultaneous shriek, and the little slipper waved wildly about in the air, seeking a rest for its sole; but the young lady who was on terra firma "stood her ground" and answered, laughingly, "Thank you; cousin Blanche would go up there, and now, she can't get down." 
               "My dear Norton!" exclaimed Harrington, "climb up and assist the young lady." 
               "I should like nothing better, but as you were first upon the field, the saints forbid that I should take away your laurels," replied Norton, quite as unwilling as his friend, to allow those four bright eyes to discover that in the art of tree-climbing his education had been neglected. 
               "Oh! Pray don't attempt it, either of you," cried the young lady, in the, tree, "I'm sure you would fall." 
                
                
               "I am sorry to be obliged to agree with you," said Harrington, coolly, and drawing nearer to her perch, "but if I only had a fishing rod"- 
               "Heaven forbid!" ejaculated Norton. 
               "May I ask why?" retorted Harrington, inadvertently. 
               "Oh yes, its no secret, only you confessed a moment ago, that nothing was ever attracted by your bait." Harrington flushed scarlet, and to hide his confusion, bent down to pick up his cane, but as he did so, a little roll of paper, tied with a smart, red ribbon, fell from his pocket upon the grass. 
               "You have dropped something," said one of the young ladies. 
               "Yes," said Norton, innocently, "it's his essay on 'How Man can improve Men'; what a mercy he did not lose it." 
               Harrington turned, feeling as though, for once in his 'life, he could with good grace lay his recovered cane over his friend's shoulders. But his kind intentions were not put into execution, for at that moment there appeared another person, whose unexpected arrival some what changed the face of affairs. 
               
                  A.L.B.
                
             
             
                
               
                   
                
                
               CHAPTER II. 
               NOW YOU SEE HIM 
               THE new comer merits a formal introduction to our readers, for he is destined to act a leading part in the scenes now" passing before us. 
               Mr.Frank Hathaway was the son of a well-to-do farmer, who had enjoyed the esteem of all who knew him. At his father's death, not many months before, Frank "had left the University where he was expected soon to graduate with honors, in order to take charge of the old homestead, where his aged mother was now left alone, and which had been noted for its hospitality. 
               Several years before the period at which we present him to our readers, he had left home, a fine, manly youth, but with much of the uncouthness which his father never lost; but he returned from his school and college life with that ease of manner and polish which comes only from mental culture and intercourse with refined society. 
               This afternoon, Hathaway had started out with dog and gun, in quest of grouse, in the woods which adjoined his estate. His route lay through the orchard where Miss Blanche was still a captive in the tree. He was attracted by the voices, and as he drew near, overheard the last
                   sentences of the conversation which we have given. The young ladies were surprised' at seeing him approach in his rough hunting costume, and bow with the utmost self-possession, as he said: 
               "Pardon me, ladies; I think that you will accept my assistance, I can relieve, you from the dilemma in which you seem to be;" and he east an involuntary glance at the young men 'who had hesitated about going to the rescue. His offer was gratefully accepted, and in a moment he swung himself into the tree. In another, the blushing girl was on the ground, where she extended her hand to thank him' for his exertions in her behalf. As they stood for an instant in this position, let us paint their portraits: 
               Blanche Burnett was tall; of commanding figure, with great, masses of light brown hair falling over her shoulders; magnificent deep blue eyes; and a 'mouth which indicated rare combination of sweetness of disposition, firmness and dignity. 
               Frank Hathaway had been "Stroke" of the University boat; and an experienced eye would detect at a glance the great power, concealed under the symmetrical form, which had gained him this distinguished position. Tall, broad-shouldered, and straight as" a forest tree, with a frank open face, and dark gray eyes, now twinkling from a, sense of the ludicrousness of his adventure, the man of culture and refinement was apparent in spite, of the rustic garb. 
               Kate Ramsey formed a striking contrast to her friend, 
                   
                   being rather below the medium height, with black hair and sparkling black eyes, and great vivacity of manner. 
               On inquiry, Frank learned that they were making a visit at the home of a friend of his, where he was soon after formally presented to the young ladies. 
               In the mean time, Norton and Harrington had found means to improve the acquaintance so singularly commenced; and in a short time they all seemed like old friends. 
               One day Hathaway proposed a sail upon the beautiful bay which formed the principal attraction to their quiet retreat. Norton knew something of the management of a boat, and Frank being an adept at all water sports, it was decided, with the consent of the girls, to dispense with the sailor. Accordingly, Frank's sloop yacht was soon made ready and all were on board. Frank gave directions for the management of the boat and took the helm. 
               Beautifully the sails filled to the fresh breeze, and the little craft obeyed her rudder like a docile living creature. The day was charming, the sky deep blue, dotted with a few fleecy clouds, and the water nearly the color of the sky, an occasional snowy cap breaking the surface. 
               The young ladies half reclined on cushions in the center of the boat. Hathaway's attention was fixed on the sails and the helm, occasionaly diverted by a glance at Miss Blanche, who lay with her head resting on her hand, absorbed in watching the varied shapes assumed by the drifting clouds. Miss Kate Ramsey and Mr. Norton seemed
                   very much interested in an, animated conversation carried on in undertones, interrupted now and then by merry peals of laughter. Harrington in his character of a philosopher, oblivious of the presence of the ladies, and placed above the trifles which would interest them, lay outstretched on the bow gazing into the water. 
               A sudden exclamation from the philosopher drew all eyes upon him, when he was seen to be, clutching at the water as if to reach something in it. After many ineffectual' attempts to learn "the reason of his strange motions, it was discovered that his eye-glasses had fallen overboard in the midst of his reverie", and he was now unable to see objects beyond his reach. Being no longer able to, assist in the management of the boat,; he was put in a safe place by Norton and admonished not to move lest he should fall overboard; and here he sat, endeavoring to recover the philosophic mood which had been so rudely interrupted and once more, to fancy himself superior to the beings with whom he condescended to associate. 
               Norton proposed to vary the excursion by sailing out of the bay into the open ocean. Miss Kate enthusiastically applauded the suggestion. Hathaway glanced at the sky, over which the clouds had commenced to gather somewhat into masses, and shook his head; but he turned to Blanche and her eyes said so plainly, "I should like it," that he allowed his judgment to be overruled, and turned the boat's head toward the mouth of the bay. 
                
                
               They were soon bounding over the waves before a two-knot breeze, every face beaming with the excitement of the motion, except that of the philosopher. Harrington was apparently suffering from some mental conflict, Ed Norton had been watching him for some time and now went to him to ascertain the source of his trouble; when the philosopher groaned out "I am awfully sea-sick," and made a lurch at the gunwale which would have carried him overboard held not Norton held him back. After supporting his tired head for a few moments, Norton arranged a bed for him and left him to bemoan his fate in the most un-philosophic manner. His fellow-men and their improvement had ceased to interest him. 
               The incident just mentioned had engrossed every one's attention, when Frank Hathaway suddenly became aware that the sky was growing more threatening. A great, black cloud was rolling rapidly up from the west and he felt that a gale would be upon them before he could reach the harbor. Not a moment was to be lost in putting the boat in trim to meet it. 
               "Miss Blanche, he said, "take the rudder for an instant, while I assist Mr. Norton." Then quickly to Norton: "A Storm will be on us in a few moments; we must reef these sails for our lives." 
               Without another word they laid themselves along the boom, and soon had the great main-sail under double reefs. They then lowered and furled the top sail, being too short-handed to manage it in a gale, and double-reefed the jib. As 
                   
                   Frank resumed his place at the helm, Blanche said, looking keenly at him, "If there is any danger, Mr. Hathaway, let me know it; I think that dangers boldly met are half overcome." 
               "There is great danger Miss Burnett," he replied "but I know that my little yacht is staunch, and I hope that she will out-ride the gale, which I fear will soon reach us." 
               "Tell me what we should do." 
               "Only be brave, he said, "remain perfectly quiet, but ready at any moment to take my place here while I aid Mr. Norton, upon the rigging: and always keep the boat's head to the wind." 
               He had scarcely ceased speaking when the hurricane burst upon them. In an instant the sea was, in a foam around them, and the little craft was creaking and groaning at every joint from the shock of the waves. Every moment it' seemed as though the waves must engulf them; but the gallant boat would rise lightly to the crest, and then glide down into the trough again. Finding that the strain of the main-sail upon the mast was too great, even under double reefs, Hathaway made a sign to Blanche to take the helm, while he and Norton undertook the difficult, task of lowering the large canvass in a gale. 
               Laying the boat's head to the wind, they hauled at the lanyards with the energy of men who knew that failure was death. The great sail came rushing down and commenced beating the air, like the wing of some monster bird
                   trying to free itself from its captors. At the risk of their lives they at last furled it to the boom; and the yacht now rode lighter under the jib alone double reefed. 
               Blanche had all" this time held the tiller with a hand as steady as Frank's own, and had sat with pale cheeks 'and lips tightly pressed together, fixedly watching the white capped waves as they dashed against the bow and cast a shower of spray and foam over them all, remembering Frank's admonition that their safety depended upon her meeting these waves squarely, and never for a moment flinching. Kate was sitting with her face covered with one hand, while the other grasped the shrouds. Frank cast a glance at Harrington, and even amid the terrors of their situation, could not repress a smile at seeing the philosopher clinging with the desperation of a drowning man to the sheet anchor, which he doubtless mistook for a life-preserver. 
               The storm continued with unabated fury: and, to complete its horrors, darkness began to envelope them. Soon they could see nothing but the white caps which surrounded them, and which gleamed with a phosphorescent light. The wind seemed to gather force; groaning and shrieking through the cordage so that the human voice was inaudible. 
               All at once, a sound was heard which chilled the blood of the bravest heart there-"Breakers ahead;" They were being driven with terrible force upon a point of land which they had seen at a great distance while it was light. Frank, still holding the tiller, leaned forward and drew Miss
                   Burnett to his side. Clasping her waist, while she clung to him, "Blanche" and "Frank" were the only words they uttered. 
               Norton had placed himself by Kate, after having given his friend Harrington a board for support when they should be wrecked. As they neared the shore they observed people with lights moving about, and they gave a shout which was evidently heard: in another moment they felt them selves lifted upon a breaker and then they were left struggling with the raging waters! 
               
                   
                
               
                  B. L.
                
             
             
                
               
                   
                
                
               CHAPTER III. 
               AND NOW YOU DON'T. 
               THE cry of distress sent up from the little boat had reached the shore, and the crowd of rude fishermen collected on the beach were thrown into a sympathetic excitement. 
               "Joe Beans! Do you go and bring your boat here; it's stronger than ours be," shouted several of the men; as a short, thick-set man made his appearance from one of the cottages higher up on the beach. 
               "Ain't I just goin' for her?" replied the man, as he opened the door of a rude little structure where the boat was kept, "but you'll not get a craft to live in that'ere sea." 
               Just then there was a loud shout-"It ain't no use, Joe, they've been throwed on to the rocks," and there was a rush forward to seize them before they were carried off again by the waves. 
               "Two gals and three men," announced Joe Beans; "Jerushy! what fools them fellers were to go out with a storm in plain sight." But though Joe derided their sense, he did everything for their resuscitation. 
               "This 'un is alive," said one fisherman who had been laboring faithfully over Harrington. The girls had been
                   carried up to Joe Beans's cottage and put in charge of his daughter. 
               "Well so's this un," said another, referring to Norton; but Joe Beans shook his head over poor Frank Hathaway. 
               "He's gone, boys," he said after a few minutes, "you won't see him breathe no more." 
               There were, rude expressions of sympathy from all around, and then the three men were carried to the cottages of the fishermen. Harrington and Norton were soon sufficiently recovered to answer and ask questions, and were shocked and nearly stunned to hear of Hathaway. 
               "Are you sure, perfectly, he, is dead?" asked Norton. 
               "Yes, you see he hit his head hard agin' a rock, and that would ha' killed him anyhow, let alone bein' almost drowned." 
               "And the young ladies?" said Harrington. 
               "'Oh! they're quite peart," said a man who had just come in; "Mag Beans has got 'em, and they're all right if she tends to 'em." 
               This was a relief, but Hathaway's death was so fearful that their words of thankfulness died on their lips, and they silently followed one of the men into the next room, where lay the lifeless body of their friend. The face was quiet, but across the forehead was a deep gash where he had struck the rocks. Norton's eyes filled with tears as he looked at him. He was easily touched, and Hathaway's many fine qualities had greatly won upon him during their short acquaintance. 
                
               
                   
                
                
               Harrington bent down to examine him more closely: "This killed him," he said pointing to the gash on Frank's forehead; "if it had not, been for that"-he sighed as the thought of Blanche Burnett crossed him. He had heard her call of "Frank" through that fearful storm. How would she bear it? 
               He turned away to Norton, and the two friends in low voices discussed what was to be done. At present nothing, for the sea raged with unabated fury, and night was well upon them: they must at least wait till the following day With this they had to be content; and inquiring again for Blanche and Kate, who, a man informed them, were "so durned used up they'd gone to bed," they went in to watch by Hathaway. 
               Let us now see how it fared with Kate Ramsey and Blanche Burnett. As has already been stated, they had recovered consciousness in the humble dwelling of Joe Beans. Maggie Beans had, to use her own expression, "lived [i.e.brought to life] drowned people afore," and under her care the girls regained their desire for life, which both declared they had lost while battling with the waves. 
               Like Harrington and Norton, their first inquiry was for their companions. "Two of 'em is all right," said Maggie, "but one is killed dead." An exclamation of terror came from both girls, and Kate with difficulty articulated "Which?" "The biggest one," said Maggie, "the one that hasn't no hair on his face; I think t'other gentlemen called him Hatherly, or some such name-" A cry from Kate stopped
                   ped her, and she sprang forward just as Blanche, with a low moan, fell fainting to the floor. Maggie picked her up in her strong, arms and laid her on the bed-"Poor thing," said the girl, "he was her sweetheart, certain, and here I've gone and told her so, all on, a sudden." Kate listened dismayed. Hathaway and Blanche But she must not think of that now. Hathaway was dead, and Blanche needed her immediate attention. 
               In vain did Maggie strive to bring back color to her cheeks, the swoon was too deep. Growing frightened, she stepped to the ladder which led to the loft of the little cottage, and called' out, "Martha! Martha Beans! come right down here." 
               A shock of brown hair in the midst of which was a brown face with great staring eyes, showed itself at the hole in the ceiling. 
               "What you want, Mag?" 
               "Come right along down, and go to Lute, Martin's for some whisky, ours is all gone: hurry now." 
               Martha tumbled, rather than climbed, down the ladder, and shot through the room and out of the door before Kate could see her. 
               "She's a comin' to!" cried Maggie, a few moments after Martha had left; "see! she's openin' her eyes!" 
               Slowly Blanche awoke to all around her. She turned her head toward Maggie, and then, to the utter horror of Kate, they saw from her expression that reason had fled. 
                
                
               "O, laws o'marcy!" I" cried Maggie, covering her face with her apron, "she's gone clean daft: O, Miss! she's goin' to be awful sick, it's gone all to her head, it has, oh me, oh me!" 
               Kate turned dizzy, for she felt that Maggie spoke truly; there was no reason in Blanche's "eyes, as she turned them from one to the other; her hands were burning, and now and then she muttered incoherently. 
               "What shall we do? O, Maggie! What shall we do?" cried the poor girl; "Hathaway dead, and Blanche so ill!" and she broke down and cried bitterly. 
               "Cry away, poor dear," said Maggie, "You'll feel better a sight when you finish up." And she did; her courage came back, and she was ready to assist in caring for Blanche. 
               Martha now opened the door and entered, bearing a flask of whisky. She merely glanced at Kate, but going straight to her sister she said, "Here's the stuff, Mag, and I just seen Lute Martin; he'd gone and told the gentlemen that the two"-a sign indicated Kate and Blanche-"had gone to bed and was all right. I told him he lied; that the one with the big curls had toppled over and you couldn't get her straight again, and I made him go kerchunk arter 'em to come up here," and Martha having ended the longest speech she ever made in her life, rushed for the ladder and was soon out of sight. 
               Kate heaved a sigh of relief. If things were only placed in Norton's hands:-somehow she did not think of Harrington's
                   rington's sharing the responsibility-but to have some company in her misery was such a comfort! 
               In a few minutes Norton and Harrington appeared, together with Joe Beans. Kate and Maggie welcomed them with delight, feeling now as if one trouble, loneliness, was over. But troubles were coming fast. All night they watched 'by the sick girl, but morning found her no better. The gentlemen were obliged to leave in the morning; the storm had abated sufficiently for navigation, and Hathaway's body must be taken to his friends. Norton shrank from this, and most of the labor fell on Harrington, as, perhaps, it was better it should. 
               Kate dreaded being left alone, but she had already learned to have confidence in Maggie Beans, and agreed without a murmur to remain with Blanche while the two gentlemen returned to Rock-Edge with the body of Hathaway. 
               For two long weeks Blanche lay helpless, and her friends watching over her so tenderly many times despaired of her life; but a good constitution and the watchful care of her cousin Kate, with that of her uncle and aunt, Mr. and Mrs. Ramsey, gradually brought back health and strength. 
               Harrington and Norton had been invaluable friends during all these trials. Immediately upon reaching Rock-Edge, the little village where the two gentlemen were to spend their summer, they had telegraphed to New York for Mr.
                   and Mrs. Ramsey. Blanche was an orphan, and had lived at her aunt's since her childhood. They had come on the next day, and were met by Norton and Harrington, 'together with Mr. and Mrs. Irving, whom Kate and Blanche had been visiting when the sad accident occurred. 
               It was impossible that Blanche should be removed from the fisherman's cottage, much as Mr. and Mrs. Irving wished it; but as Rock-Edge was but two miles distant from the little fishing village, they often drove over to inquire for the sick girl, Mrs. Irving spending hours with her. 
               Mr. and Mrs. Ramsey were fortunate enough to obtain board in a cottage near that of Joe Beans, and thus for two weeks did they anxiously look for Blanche's recovery. At the end of that time she was able to be removed, though still very weak, to Mrs. Irving's large, roomy house. Maggie Beans wept at their departure. Kate was her admiration, and now she was going away! "Oh Miss Kate!" she cried, "do you think you'd mind If I'd come to Rock-Edge to see you some day?" 
               "Of course you may come, Maggie," replied Kate, "I shall always be glad to see you, and I'll come here too." 
               Even Martha expressed some feeling. "Say Miss!" she exclaimed as Kate was going, "I like you real well, you're a first rater; 'sides, you're mighty good-looking; so I want you to have these 'un," and she held out to Kate a long string of "lucky-stenes." 
                
                
               Kate took them kindly; not a smile passed over her face, for she knew these lucky-stones were the pride of Martha's heart, and she had watched her string them over and count them many a time. She did not dare refuse them, for the girl would have been hurt, and her warm thanks for this useless gift more than repaid Martha for her sacrifice. 
               Joe Beans rather demurred at receiving money from Mr. Ramsey. "Why look a' here, sir," he said, "I don't want nothin': I'd spect you to do the same thing for my gals; and then them's such nice young things, anyhow; that 'un with the black eyes is a regular stunner, you bet!" And Joe forgot his money in his admiration for Miss Kate. 
               For a few days after her, arrival at Mrs. Irving's Blanche could not leave her bed; but after that she slowly recovered and was carried every day down to the old-fashioned parlor sofa, where she lay for hours, watching the ladies at their sewing, joining in their conversation when she felt strong enough. Norton and Harrington were constant visitors at the house; a day never passed without bringing them either to spend the morning or evening, or both. And strange as it may appear, it was from Harrington that. Blanche first heard the particulars of Hathaway's death and funeral. Kate had always avoided the subject. 
               Harrington told her all she asked, and told it so feelingly that she wondered if this were the same man at whom they laughed for his foppishness, as she and Kate called it. 
                
                
               "He's very pleasant, and such a perfect gentleman," she said to Kate one morning as the latter entered the room with a large basket of flowers. 
               "Yes, isn't he?" replied Kate who had just been talking over the gate with Ed Norton; which perhaps accounted for her brilliant color. 
               "He's so kind and pleasant," said Blanche. 
               "Yes, and so bright; and has such lovely eyes," added Kate. 
               "Why I don't think him particularly bright, and his eyes are certainly not good either; what are you thinking of? Mr. Harrington has such"- 
               "Oh, bother Mr. Harrington! I wasn't talking of him," and Kate ran a thorn into her finger as she pushed a rose hastily into a vase already filled with flowers. 
               "Why, I was," said Blanche, "and perhaps he is bright; he certainly knows a great deal, and he's so kindhearted!" 
               This was always Blanche's favorite virtue. If a man was kind-hearted, she would forgive him for writing stupid essays for the fellow-men who never read them; forgive those long and unbecoming side-whiskers; even overlook those horrible eye-glasses, though they made him, look like a dandy-and she "hated dandies." 
               "Yes, he's very pleasant," she said again; then she thought of Hathaway and stopped. Hathaway had been so much pleasanter. 
                
               
                   
                
                
               That afternoon, for the first time, Blanche was carried out to the lawn. It was a time of rejoicing to them all, and, as a matter of course, Harrington and Norton considered their presence necessary. They formed quite a pleasant little party. Mr. and Mrs. Irving, with Mr. and Mrs. Ramsey had brought out a small table and were deep in the mysteries of whist; while Kate, Norton and Harrington were devoting themselves to Blanche in a most exemplary manner. 
               Suddenly their quietude received a rude shock. A girl appeared rushing over the lawn. It was Maggie Beans. Her dress was torn, her hair flying in the wind; her face was ghastly white, and her breath came short and quick. She was trying to call, and Norton distinguished the words "Miss Kate! O, Miss Kate!" 
               But what could she want at such an hour as this! 
               
                  B. D.
                
             
             
                
               
                   
                
                
               CHAPTER IV. 
               HERE HE IS AGAIN! 
               FOR the week previous to the time when our story opens, the residents of the little, village of Rock-Edge had observed two rather singular looking men roaming along the shore and among the fissures and the cliffs, which in some places had been worn by the waves into deep, dark caverns, which were said to contain many beautiful shells and curious fossils. 
               Little Willie Ramsey, Kate's seven-year-old brother, had, one afternoon, followed these individuals along the shore, watching their lank figures stooping over every curiously shaped stone, while their excited and rapid gesticulations amused his childish mind. As they spoke French, however, he soon lost his interest in them and turned to resume his play with the rough little sons of the fishermen, with whom he had become familiar since the illness of Blanche had withdrawn Mrs. Ramsey's attention from her only and much loved son. 
               These men had disappeared a few days after the sad accident which cast such a gloom over our merry young friends, and all thought of them had passed from the minds of all but two in the village. 
                
                
               The old host of the tavern with the inappropriate name of "The Great Eastern" still shook his head mysteriously when any one spoke of the deep caverns of the cliffs, and intimated darkly that the old Frenchman and his crazy son knew more than any shore-man of the hidden delights or horrors of those almost unexplored recesses. As for little Willie, he often spoke of the queer antics performed on the rocks by the Frenchmen, and, being an excellent mimic, had given several very amusing accounts of them at home which at any other time would have delighted his doting parents; but occupied as they were with Blanche, he did not, receive the attention which he. considered his due, and betook himself to his more appreciative audience of little urchins on the shore. On the very afternoon mentioned in the last chapter, when Blanche had for the first time been carried out on the lawn, he had become, disgusted with the want of attention he received at home and was enacting the stranger and his son on the rocks, much to the amusement of Maggie Beans and her two little brothers. 
               As he stood on a slippery rock, brandishing a shell in the air, he lost his, footing, fell backwards into the dashing waves and disappeared beneath the water. Maggie, frightened out of her self-possession, thought only of calling for help, and rushed frantically toward Mrs. Irving's house, where she ran screaming across the lawn in the manner described in the last chapter. 
               As soon as they could find but from the distracted creature what had occurred, the gentlemen, followed by the
                   agonized mother and sister, hastened to the shore, but could see nothing of little Willie. As soon as possible a boat was procured and they searched the shore, but were unable to find the boy. They watched for days, in the hope that the cruel waves would at least restore his body to the sorrowing parents; but at last even the mother realized the fact that she should see her darling no more. 
               The family hastened to leave the place which had been so productive of naught but misery to them all; and taking sorrowing leave of their kind friends the Irving's, returned to their city home. Strange as it may seem, after Blanche and Kate had left, Harrington and Norton found the place intolerably dull, and, two days after, came to the conclusion that they were lazy., idle fellows, and should be at their work, which consisted in Harrington's writing essays and, Norton's studying law diligently for half an hour every day. 
               So they returned to New York, and took up their abode in the the Harrington's house, the family being in Europe. One day, soon after their return, Norton rushed into Harrington's room, flung himself on the sofa and exclaimed-"I vow I am the most unfortunate man in New York!" 
               Harrington turned quietly and said "Why Norton! good afternoon; you seem slightly excited, have you missed the boat-race to-day?" 
               "Boat-races be hanged! The Ramsey's, one arid all, sail for Europe in a few days." 
                
               
                   
                
                
               Harrington began to look more interested, in fact I think the philosopher turned a shade or two paler. "The Ramsey's going to Europe!" he exclaimed; "Yes, going for an indefinite length of time. Miss Blanche is better, but still not strong, and Mrs. Ramsey has never recovered from the shock she received at the death of that boy, so Mr. Ramsey has decided to take them all to Europe. Kate too, poor girl; they will probably make a regular nurse of her. I know she would rather stay quietly at home. 
               "Do not be so conceited, Norton, I do not believe she would at all; I never have seen the young lady who was not 'perfectly crazy,' as they say, to go to Europe. But where did you get this information?" 
               "I'met Mr. Ramsey in the street; he invited us to call to-night." 
               "Of course we must go," said Harrington, and, he turned to his desk to finish his essay, which proved to be an entire failure, owing, perhaps, to the news he had just received. 
               That evening, when the two friends had prepared themselves to make their call, each wore a very long face. Norton frankly acknowledged his disappointment at the prospect of parting from, the Ramsey's; and Harrington, although he would laugh at what he called his friend's "nonsense," could not prevent a strange feeling that would come over him whenever he thought that perhaps he might not see Blanche again for years-perhaps he might hear her
                   voice to-night for the last time. He now realized how much he had enjoyed her society during the two weeks of her convalescence, and with how much pleasure he had looked forward to meeting her again. 
               Arrived at the Ramsey's, they were ushered into a large parlor which presented a most melancholy appearance; the furniture and pictures were draped in white and looked like ghosts stationed there to guard the house during the absence of the family. In a moment the rustle of a dress was heard, and kate's bright face appeared. After greeting them warmly she said "won't you come into what Blanche and I call our little den? It is the only place in the house that looks like home." 
               So saying, she conducted them across the wide hall, into a little gem of a room which did indeed "look like home." The soft carpet, easy chairs books, in the shelves and scattered on the table, the open piano, and, above all, Blanche seated at the open window, the wind playing with her curls and just tinging her cheeks with the faintest rose color, made it look so like home that you felt as did the prince in the fairy tale, that if you once entered you could never break the enchantment that bound you there, but must remain forever. So Harrington thought, at least as he sat and talked to Blanche and watched the faint color come and go on her lovely face, and the varied expression of her beautiful eyes. 
               Norton seemed at first to find it equally enchanting, and talked to Kate in low and earnest tones, as though he had
                   something of more than usual interest to tell her. But as he became more interested in his subject he did not notice the peculiar smile that played about her mouth, nor the triumphant look in her eyes. 
               At length he stopped, looked up at her, and said, passionately, "Won't you Miss Kate?" She shook her head, smiled, and in a low voice said, "No, never, Mr. Norton, I-oh, here comes Mama, how glad she will be to see you!" And thus finishing her answer, Miss Kate hastened to meet her mother who had just returned from driving. 
               The entrance of Mrs. Ramsey of course put a stop to all tete a tetes, and, until they left, conversation was so general that poor Norton had not a chance to ask Kate to finish her answer, and went away in a most unhappy frame of mind. He was so gloomy that Harrington said at last: "Was not Miss Kate kind this evening, Norton?" 
               "I never saw Miss Ramsey when she was not kind and polite," said Norton, hotly. 
               "I never did, either," said Harrington, "but I thought perhaps she might not have entirely agreed with you in everything you said." 
               "She did not, and never will." 
               "Tell me what it is about and I, will see her and tell her how you hate to be differed with." 
               "Harrington, can you keep quiet for five minutes?" 
               "Certainly, my dear fellow, and will, as soon as I find
                   out what is the matter with you; you look like a man disgusted with the world and all its inhabitants,-in fact, like a disappointed lover: but that I can not believe you to be, for Kate can not have refused you." 
               "She can, and has-Good night," and taking up his hat, Norton went off to his own room. 
               "What else could he expect," said Harrington to himself when the door had closed after his friend, "allowing himself to fall in love with a girl upon a week's acquaintance, for he certainly was not as much in love then as he is now. I am sorry for him-very, but he always is so imprudent. To be sure, I-but then Blanche is superior to most young ladies. How beautiful she did look to-night! She converses with remarkable fluency. I can easily perceive that she is a person who thinks. When I hold her of my essay on 'Women and Her work' she gave me two or three very valuable hints upon the subject. I rather fancied she looked pleased when I told her I thought of going to Europe when they go. By the way, I've not told Norton that I think of going. Poor fellow! I was rather in hopes that I could persuade him to go with me, but I suppose after what has occurred it would not be pleasant for him to meet the Ramseys constantly, as of course we should." 
               The Ramseys and Harrington sailed the next week. Norton was there to see them off, and watched them until they were out of sight. The last thing he saw was Kate's handkerchief waving toward him like a flag of truce-as 
                   
                   indeed it was. Not until she saw him standing on the wharf, looking so lonely and forlorn, did Kate realize how much he liked her, and how badly she had treated him; acknowledging to herself that she had flirted abominably with him, she forthwith began to pity him. 
               Our travelers spent the Autumn I in England, and in November went to Paris, where they intended remaining a month or two, that Mrs. Ramsey might be under the care of a famous physician, Dr. Latour. She was not able, however, to endure the noise of the city so they removed to a small village about an hour's ride from Paris. Harrington remained in town, but never neglected going out to see the Ramseys every day. 
               While they were there, he told Blanche of his love for her and she consented to become his wife. She knew that she never could love him as she had Frank Hathaway, but she thoroughly liked and respected him and felt that with him she could find all the happiness that she now looked for in this world. 
               The winter passed away very quietly, and our friends were enjoying the sweet May breezes, when one day, as Dr. Latour left the house after his visit to Mrs. Ramsey, Harrington said, "Blanche have you ever noticed anything familiar in that man's face? Does it not seem to you that you have seen him before?" 
               "No; why?" 
                
                
               "He reminds me strangely," said Harrington, "of that old Frenchman who was at Rock-Edge when we were there, and who disappeared so suddenly. They say that there was something myterious about his leaving; did you ever hear about it?" 
               "No," said Blanche, "and don't want to. The very mention of Rock-Edge is hateful to me. Do not talk of it." 
               "I will not," said Harrington, especially this afternoon, for I wish you to be entirely mistress of your mind, as I intend to read you my 'Thoughts on Insanity and Magnetism,' a subject in which I am at present deeply interested, and one which will, I am sure, attract the attention of all scientists at no very distant day. I find that Latour can be of great service to me in pursuing the subject, for he has already made several experiments among the inmates of the 'Maison de Sante' of which he is the attending physician; and he tells me that one of them is likely to prove successful. He has invited me to go through the hospital this afternoon, as he will then be at liberty. Of course Blanche, I wish you to be interested in anything which may tend to alleviate the misery of man, so I will first read you my essay and then we will go to the asylum." 
               "I feel sure, said Blanche, suppressing a yawn, "that at any other time I should enjoy listening to anything that you might write, but this afternoon I feel so uncommonly
                   stupid that I am afraid. I could not listen with the close attention which it requires. But I will go with you to the asylum with pleasure, if you will promise not to let me see anything dreadful." 
               "I promise you; and some other day we will have the essay," said Harrington, thinking "how well she talks, and what a mind she has!" 
               "Oh dear!" sighed Blanche, when she left the room to go and prepare herself for her walk, "what a bore! I wonder how many essays I will have to listen to in the course of my life! I evaded this one pretty well, and next time I'll do better, for practice makes perfect." 
               The walk to the asylum was very pleasant. Harrington made himself so agreeable that Blanche almost forgave him his essays. For a few moments he forgot both himself and philosophy, and talked as most young men talk when they allow themselves to be natural. 
               Blanche, as the reader may have discovered, was neither a genius nor a simpleton, but merely a young lady of great common sense, practical, and with strong sense of humor, which often made her more inclined to laugh than to yawn over Harrington's prosy essays and pompous monologues. She was almost persuaded during the walk that she felt something more than mere respect and affection for him, and that, perhaps, in time he might fill Hathaway's, place in her heart. Her contentment, however, was of short duration, for the moment they entered Dr. Latour's garden,
                   that indefinable air of priggishness again enveloped Sidney, and Blanche noted in dismay, that even his gait became constrained. She smiled as she remembered that her lively cousin Kate had once hold her that she had just met Mr. Harrington coming from church, "looking eminently respectable and as if he believed in election." The description fitted him so well that she almost wished Kate could see the self satisfied expression of the whole man as he received the compliments with which the Doctor greeted his scientific young friend. 
               "Perhaps Mademoiselle would like to look at the garden before we visit the patients," said Dr. Latour. 
               "Oh, by all means," said Blanche, glad of a respite, even of a few moments; it is, charming. I am sure these shady walks and lovely flowers must give pleasure, if they can not bring health to the poor unfortunates in your house." 
               "They give occupation, at least, Madamoiselle," replied the Doctor, Then turning to Harrington; "There is the young man of whom I spoke, bending over that bed of roses; he lives among the flowers and takes excellent care of them, but his memory is gone completely, and I sometimes despair of restoring his mind. But with the aid of your suggestions, perhaps-" A faint cry from Blanche interrupted the worthy Doctor at this moment, and both he and Harrington were struck dumb with surprise to see her rush frantically forward and fall fainting at, the feet of the
                   young gardener who stood as if spellbound, for an instant, and then, his whole face beaming with intelligence, he raised her from the ground, and pressing her rapturously in his arms, called her name in every tone of love and delight. Harrington stood motionless, crushed, stupefied, for before him stood Frank Hathaway, with Blanche folded in; his arms. He no longer needed the aid of science; the Magnetism of Love had restored him! 
               
                   
                
               
                  A. G. K.
                
             
             
                
                
               CHAPTER V. 
               A MUCH NEEDED EXPLANATION. 
                
                   
                     
                         
                           "The times have been, 
                           That, when the brains were out, the man would die, 
                           And there an end; but now, they rise again, 
                           . . . . . and push us from our stools." 
                        
                      
                     Macbeth. 
                   
                
               FOR a few moments the various actors in this strange scene remained silent: the Doctor watching with intense anxiety the patient in whom he was so deeply interested, as his whole manner showed that his mind had responded to the voice of love calling it to come forth from the tomb in which, for such a weary time, it had lain enveloped in the shroud of insanity. Harrington's thoughts were more of matter than of mind, as he saw before him, with life in every limb, the man he had himself helped to lay in his grave. The lovers, with proverbial selfishness, thought only of the rapture of being once more together. 
               At last the silence was broken by a sound from Harrington, half groan, half exclamation, which called Blanche back to earth, and to the remembrance that she was no longer free. Her sudden change of countenance and quick
                   turning from Hathaway roused the Doctor, who, understanding the relations existing between Blanche and Harrington, saw at a glance the danger which was likely to accrue to his patient from a like knowledge. 
               A few words to Harrington quieted him, and then drawing Blanche aside he told her how much depended on her, and cautioned against revealing her engagement, 
               Hathaway at last becoming conscious of something besides Blanche, roused to the fact of the strangeness of his surroundings and plied question after question; the Doctor with Some difficulty explained to him that he had been ill and for Blanche's sake he must control himself; now she must go but she would soon return. So saying, the Doctor hurried Blanche and Sidney from the garden. 
               Once out of hearing of Hathaway, Harrington broke forth into question and exclamation, but the Doctor told them they must be patient till the next day, when they should hear all. 
               Blanche and Sidney scarce exchanged a word on their homeward way. Blanche in the midst of her dreamlike joy, felt the weight of the chains that bound her, heavy on her heart, and dared not speak of the strangeness of it all. Harrington felt most bitterly that he was nothing to the girl he loved, that a conflict between love and honor was before him, and that his love was strong. 
               As they entered the house they were met by Kate, who glanced at them and exclaimed "O. Blanche! what has happened?" A few words told her all they knew thus far,
                   and then Harrington, declaring himself overcome by the events of the day, said good night: he hesitated as he approached Blanche, as to whether or not he should claim his accustomed good-bye kiss, but at last, with a feeling of shame that showed itself in his half defiant manner, he claimed what was still his right. 
               As the door closed after him the two girls turned to each other; Blanche threw herself into the outstretched arms of her cousin and burst into a passion of tears. Kate said not a word, but led her to that repository of secrets, her bed-room, and then let her pour forth her joy, perplexity and trouble: 
               "O Kate, what shall I do, what shall I do! That odious Mr. Harrington. But it is all my fault, fickle, untrue, unfaithful girl that I am, why could I not have waited!" 
               "Well," said Kate, half smiling in the midst of her tears of sympathy, "When ones lover is dead and buried, one does'n't expect him to appear on the scene in this manner." 
               "You are heartless!" exclaimed Blanche indignantly, "you know I never loved Mr. Harrington, prosy dandy that he is, but I was weak enough to think it my duty to give to another the happiness I could never know. I thought I could make him happy, but now"-she turned away from her, cousin and threw herself on the bed in a paroxysm of weeping. 
                
               
                   
                
                
               "Now Blanche," said Kate at last, "you should be ashamed; here your lover is restored to life and you greet his return with as much woe as if it were a matter of sorrow; of course Mr. Harrington, poor fellow"-and Kate gave a sympathetic sigh for Norton's friend-"will give you up and you'll be as happy as the day is long." 
               "He won't!" exclaimed Blanche despairingly, "didn't you see him kiss me?" 
               But why give any more of an argument, that, like many another, pursued its circular way for several hours. 
               When Harrington reached his room he was met by no sympathetic cousin; but he wished for none, as he, walked the floor hour after hour, passing through a conflict which stripped him of much of his outside foppishness forever. "Why must I give up everything! Why must he return to life! She might have been happy with me, but now, can I ever,-yes, I will make her happy. I will take her far away, she shall have all that heart can desire, and I will win her heart by kindness."[The rest of this soliloquy is too harrowing for transcription.-Transcribing Editor.]
                     "Flat burglary as ever was committed."-Pub. Editor.
                   At last, worn out, he gave up the conflict, victor over himself in a manner and with a strength with which his dearest friends would scarce have credited him. 
               The next morning Harrington was early at the Ramsey's, feeling that the sooner it was all over, the better. 
                
                
               As Blanche entered the room alone, looking so lovely, with the bright flush of anxiety and shame burning on her cheek, his courage failed him, and he advanced toward her with an eagerness that caused her heart to die within her. Checking himself, however, he greeted her quietly and led her to the sofa, where, seating himself beside her, he explained to her that he should no longer consider her bound to him, for he knew what his blind affection would not allow him to see before, that her love had never been his. 
               As Blanche listened to his generous words she suffered the full punishment of her ill-judged course:-her untruthfulness to the memory of the man she loved, and the pain she Was now causing the man who was so nobly releasing her. Determined not to be out-done in generosity, she declared herself willing to abide by her promise, though she confessed that she had never loved him. 
               At last the conversation was interrupted by Kate, who, distrusting Harrington's generosity, and knowing the yielding disposition of her cousin, now entered the room, and approaching Harrington, expressed her sympathy with him, taking it for granted that he had relinquished his claims on Blanche. Her matter-of-course manner seemed to decide it all, and after a few more words Harrington left them, feeling his dream of happiness was over, and himself a bruised and broken-hearted man whom Fortune had created very hardly; which fact I think even that capricious dame herself must be forced to acknowledge. 
                
                
               Not long after Harrington's departure a ring at the door startled Blanche, and presently the two girls were summoned to join Mr. and Mrs. Ramsey in the parlor to see two gentlemen. Kate declared she felt as if she were going to see a dead man; that she should expect to see him with sea-weed matted in his hair and to find his touch corpselike. "Don't!." exclaimed Blanche, "you make me feel as if it were indeed the dream it seems." 
               At last they descended, and Blanche found her fears were groundless; while Kate felt, as Frank saluted her, that the hand that met hers was as warm flesh and blood as her own. In a very few moments they were seated around the Doctor, listening to the strange story which he had already cautiously revealed to Frank. 
               "I must tell you first," began the Doctor, "that I have one, what you call hobby, that is, the brain. Two years ago I go with my son to America to study the quick brains and many nerves what is in that land: I study one year in New York, and then I go with my son to the leetle place where you was. I stay there and live most in the caves and on the rocks; I was in the village and saw all the trouble when you was there, but you had one other Doctor and I must not interfere. I saw this boy"-indicating Frank-"with that gash in his head; and I wish much to know about the brain. When there was the funeral I go with my son and that night I and my son we dig him up." 
                
               
                   
                
                
               Here the Doctor paused, feeling sure he deserved praise, and knowing that the natural horror caused by the action must give place to gratitude at the happy result. Having received what he so evidently desired, he proceeded: 
               "Well, we take him to our care and then I find he was not dead; I feel very bad at first, for I wish much to see his brain. But I and my son we worked very hard, and at last he was not dead at all any more but he was all crazy. Next day I have a letter from France and my wife she was dead, so I must come home. I wish much to see how the brain work in this man what I raised up, and so I bring him with me to France. I have no time to see his friends and they was all just so sorry any way, so he stay with me for the good of the great science. That is all, and I cure his body, and now Mademoiselle Blanche, she cure his mind." 
               After a few moments of questioning and mutual congratulation, the Doctor rose to go; out though Frank rose at the same time it was only to reseat himself, after the Doctor's departure, at Blanche's side. 
               Understanding this rather significant action, Mr. and Mrs. Ramsey soon discovered a necessity for their presence elsewhere. Kate was not long in following, notwithstanding the efforts of her cousin to keep her. 
               And now, left alone with Hathaway, Blanche felt her heart die within her at the thought of the confession that was before her. With a great effort she nerved herself to
                   the task. The color came and went in her cheek with a rapidity that showed the quick beating of her heart. Frank advanced toward her with outstretched hands, his fine, manly face aglow with the joy of the moment, but Blanche cut short his passionate words almost before they left his lips, and in a few words told the story of her faithlessness. She stated the facts as quietly as she could, making no effort to excuse what was so evidently without excuse; but for a moment, as she finished her short story, she raised her eyes to him and exclaimed in a voice over which she at last lost control- 
               "I have been false to, my love-none the less binding because unspoken-weak and untrue in action: but I must pray you to believe that I loved you all the time, that my heart has never turned from you, though numbed into a state in which it was blind enough to imagine that Duty required Honor, Truth and my own Love to be sacrificed to a false kindness. My eyes are opened now." 
               Poor Frank! It was very hard. Time brings to most of us the consciousness that the idols which dazzle us with their glitter are but wooden dolls bedecked with tinsel and mock-jewels; but we generally open our eyes, or have them opened-more gradually. Frank had no preparation-one gust of wind and his white angel of innocence and love was covered with the dust of which ordinary mortals are made. 
               He turned away during her story, but as she ended
                   with a half-choked sob, the tears sprang to his eyes and his generous nature forgave the wrong that cut him to the heart. He turned to Blanche, and without a word, held out his arms, into which the erring but repentant girl threw herself, feeling that she was indeed unworthy of a love so noble and true. 
               
                   
                
               
                  M.
                
             
             
                
               
                   
                
                
               CHAPTER VI. 
               THE USUAL FINALE. 
               Showing how hard it is for young people to understand themselves, and how often they do the very thing they vow they won't. 
               "SO it always is," said Mrs. Ramsey, musingly to Kate, "the young people must be gratified, and the course of true love often runs across the hearts of innocent people. If it injures them, who can help it? Look at Blanche out there in the garden with Mr. Hathaway, she looks as beamingly happy as if she had never heard of poor Mr. Harrington." 
               "Don't call him poor, I beg of you, mama," replied Kate, "I dare say he will recover from his wounds. I never yet heard of the man who died of unrequited love. As he does not smoke, of course he will feel badly for a little while; if he only knew the effect of a good cigar, he Would be cured in a month." 
               Kate was in rather a sarcastic humor on this particular morning, for she had just received a gossiping letter from one of her friends in New York, which told her, among other things, that Mr. Norton was to be married in a few
                   days to Miss Julia Whiting, a girl, whom Kate had always disliked. 
               To be sure there was no reason why Norton's engagement should affect her; she had never intended to marry him, and her flirtation, with him had enlivened a rather dull summer. But the idea that he should have consoled himself with "that Julia Whiting," only a few weeks after she had refused him, irritated her not a little. The most provoking part of it was that she had been pitying him all winter. "I would have not cared at all if I had not wasted so much compassion upon him," she thought, as she sauntered down one of the garden walks, for she felt unequal to any more conversation with her mother just then. 
               "I'll he as stony-hearted as a rock the next time any one dares to even hint at the word love," she continued, tying her hat with a jerk; "I am tired of everybody, there is nothing thought of in this house, but marrying and giving in marriage. What a rest we shall have in Heaven, if we get there. I wish Blanche would consent to Mr. Hathaway's plan of being married next week and going back to, America with him in the first steamer. I believe she would if Mr. Harrington were not here. I wonder what he will do, poor fellow." Kate's heart was softer than her speech, and Harrington's dignified, manly bearing, during the few moments when she had seen him with Blanche the day before, had won her admiration. She had never thought she could like him so well. 
                
                
               A step on the gravel behind her, caused her to turn her head, and seeing Harrington, she advanced toward him with outstretched hand and a very sweet smile. "You see I am Obliged to take the air alone," she said, "it is very kind in you to join me." 
               "I have only come to say good-bye," said Harrington, "I, am going to Paris in an hour; can you tell me where to find Miss Burnett and Hathaway? Mrs. Ramsey told me they were in the garden." 
               "They were walking in that alley a moment, ago," said Kate, "shall I take you to them?" 
               "If you please. I suppose they will pardon the intrusion." 
               Kate led the way down a long, broad path overhung by horse-chestnuts whose thick foliage excluded the hot sun, though here and there the gravel was flecked with a shimmering gold which danced from stone to stone, as a light breeze stirred the branches. At the end of this walk grew an irregular group of trees over which a luxuriant vine had clambered, clothing trunks, and branches with a dense, rich green, and forming a bower secluded and romantic enough for the most fanciful of lovers. 
               Here Blanche and Frank had retired, and were now engaged in earnest conversation: she seated on the stump of an old tree, while he lay on the moss at her feet, gazing into those eyes which seemed to him more beautiful than ever. She must have had a great deal to tell him, for he was ignorant of everything which had occurred since 
                   
                   his accident; and who could enlighten him so fully as Blanche! 
               Perhaps it was some interesting complication in German politics which called that last blush to her fair cheek. Whatever it was, we can never know, for she checked herself suddenly in the midst of her sentence, as she saw Kate and her companion approaching, and rose with some precipitation from her rustic seat. Frank, too, sprang to his feet visibly embarrassed, but Harrington's manner was perfectly easy as he told them in a few words of his contemplated journey, and, with the utmost composure, congratulated them upon their approaching marriage which, he said, he heard was to take place in a few days; and then, with a warm pressure of the hand for each, he said good-bye and left them. 
               It was decided that in three days Blanche and Frank should be married, and great was the excitement in the Ramsey house. We will not weary our readers with a description of the wedding. Kate was glad when it was all over, and the principal actors in it on their way to New York. Blanche was too much absorbed in her own happiness to be any longer her companion. 
               "Now," she said to her mother, "we may begin to enjoy life. You may be, very sure, dearest mama, that I shall never give you any trouble with my love affairs. I do not mean to marry; it makes people so selfish to be in love. I am certain that Blanche has not thought of any one but herself and Frank since she found him." 
                
                
               "Do not be too positive, my love," laughed Mrs. Ramsey, "your father says that we are going to the sea-side next week; and when the cooler weather comes, perhaps we may go to Rome for the winter. Who knows what may happen between this spring and next? You may meet some handsome young French Count, or Italian Prince, who will be able to make you as indifferent to all human affairs as Blanche is!" 
               "And who will worship my fortune as Frank does Blanche's beauty," added Kate. "No, indeed, if I am ever so foolish as to marry any one you may be sure he will be an American; but I never will marry, I promise you. It's all very well for Blanche, she is mild and yielding, but I could never be so absorbed in any one person." 
               We have no means of knowing whether anyone tried to overcome Kate's determination to avoid matrimony, during her stay at Trouville, but we do know that three weeks of sea-bathing and open-air life gave a fresh bloom to her cheek and a buoyant grace to her movements, which made her perfectly charming. Her spirits were as exuberant as ever, and her account of scenes and incidents on the shore and in the water, gave great amusement to Blanche and her husband, who were living in the most blissful retirement with Frank's mother at Rock-Edge. After leaving Trouville, the Ramseys traveled slowly through Germany and Switzerland, intending to reach Rome about Christmas. 
               But where is Harrington all this time? Has he com
                   mitted suicide, or has he drowned his sorrows in the winecup? By no means. He is enjoying himself in the wild mountain region of Norway. 
               When he left Blanche he thought only of flying from the sight, and, if possible, the remembrance of her happiness with Hathaway. His pride, as well as his love, was deeply wounded, and he suffered quite as much from mortification as from grief. He had been generous in his treatment of Blanche, and the victory he had gained over his lower nature had strengthened his character. In the long hours which he passed alone on the silent mountains of Norway, he had time to study his own actions and motives during the past year, and to see himself as others had seen him. Having once begun this self-examination, he was too honest to stop short of learning the whole truth; and it was not long before he said to himself that it was pure madness to suppose that any Woman of sense could love such a solemn prig as he had been. 
               Having discovered this fact he began in the deepest humility to reform his mind and character, and this required so much of his attention that he began to forget Blanche. Of course, he scorned the thought that he could love any other woman; but who trusts a vow of eternal constancy to the memory of a hopeless passion? More especially when made by a man not quite twenty-six years of age. 
               At the end of a month, Harrington, to his surprise, began to feel very cheerful, and thoughts of a return to 
                   
                   civilization haunted him. He rejected the idea, however, and tried hard to fight against the wholesome influences of youth and perfect health. In vain. Finally he actually longed for companionship, and welcomed with joy the arrival of a party of tourists in the little village of Felsen, which he made his headquarters. He made himself agreeable to the ladies of the party, and useful to the gentlemen; and in return for his courtesies, was invited to join them in their wanderings through Norway. He entered heartily into their amusements and soon became as expert as anyone in shooting: and fishing. In fact, he was fast losing all trace of his former stiffness, and bade fair to become a manly and modest young fellow. 
               Let us leave him to continue this wonderful improvement, and return to the Ramseys who have reached Switzerland and are living very quietly at the Hotel Byron on Lake Geneva. Perhaps we can not convey to our readers a better idea of Kate's life at this time, than by giving a few 
               
                   
                      
                         
                           EXTRACTS FROM HER DIARY: 
                           LAKE GENEVA, September 7th--We have been a week at this lovely place, and this is the first moment I have had for writing. Even now, though the rain and mist hide everything, I can scarcely keep my eyes from the window, for if the, wind should blow the mist away for a second, what a glimpse of Paradise I might have! 
                           We have had a delightful summer; such a rest after the excitement of last spring. No mournful lovers to disturb
                               our enjoyment. I wonder how Mr. Harrington feels by this time. His letters to papa are cheerful enough, but one can not judge from them. He may be tearing his hair between the sentences for all we know. I don't mean to be unfeeling, but I do think that he ought to be obliged to Frank for living. He and Blanche would have had a dreary time of it. She is too placed for him, he needs some one to wake him up and laugh him out of his sciences. Papa says that he has a remarkably fine mind and that age will improve him. I hope so, I am sure, if we are to meet him again. 
                           This hotel is charming: only a few people in it, most of them elderly; only two young people besides myself,-a young lady and a boy about fifteen. The girl is very pretty, and the boy rather nice. They are Americans, so I must know them, of course. 
                           SEPT. 21. I already know those young people quite well. Their name is Baker and they come from the West, I believe. They are quite amusing, particularly Miss Jenny, for she is so affected, and uses such stilted language. One might suppose she read nothing but Johnson's Essays Harry is teaching me to row; he is simple and merry as one could wish. 
                           SEPT. 23. We had such a surprise last evening. When we were sitting on the terrace Mr. Harrington came up, and he was so browned and strong-looking that at first I did not know, him. I never saw anyone so changed. He 
                               
                               looks as if, he were awake: why, I really thought him quite handsome. 
                           SEPT. 25. Mr. Harrington and I have been on the lake all the morning. He talked a good deal about Blanche, and it embarrassed me at first, for I was afraid it might hurt him to know how happy she is; but he is either very heartless or else wonderfully self-controlled, for he received all my information with as much coolness as if he had never been upon the point of marrying her. I asked if he had been writing anything lately, thinking to make myself agreeable, but he seemed annoyed by the question, and actually blushed as he answered: "I write no more essays, Miss Kate, and hope I never may. I used to, think myself a philosopher, but I must have been a fool." I did not like to hear him abuse himself in that manner, so I said, with perhaps unnecessary warmth: "I never thought so, I assure you, and I always liked you much better than Frank." This was not quite true, I am afraid, but I do not regret having said it, for it seemed to comfort him wonderfully. "Thank you," said he, "I hope I shall always deserve your friendship." After that we chatted very merrily, and the morning was gone almost before I knew it. There is nothing more delightful than the companionship of an intelligent man. 
                           SEPT. 29. The days are flying by us. We are so busy amusing ourselves that I have only time to write a few words now and then. Harry brought me some exquisite flowers this morning, and we, that is, Mr. Harrington and 
                            
                            
                           I, decorated the large salon with them. We are going to dance there to-night. 
                           I never knew till to-day that Mr. Harrington could dance. He says he used to think it beneath his dignity. I told him that it was a wonder he had not justified himself in doing so, by long strings of quotations from scripture and ancient writings. I am sorry now that I said it, for he looked a little displeased, and said it was quite unnecessary to remind him of his former prosiness. Harry has just brought me an invitation from Mr. Harrington to row with him, so I must stop writing. Harry is a lovely boy; I wonder why people so often snub boys, I like them very much. 
                           OCT. 10. To-day we went to Chillon, my second visit. I wonder why people go to see those stupid old places. The Bakers were with us, and Jennie clung to Mr. Harrington's arm all the time, and was horrified at the right places, and screamed at the dungeons. He did not appear to dislike it. She is very pretty, so that makes up for her silliness. If he falls in love with that silly girl, I never will believe in another man. I did not address a single word to him all the way home, and when we entered the house he asked me if he had been so unfortunate as to offend me. I answered, freezingly, "O! no, that is impossible." Now that I think of it, he did not do anything to displease me, and yet I feel quite angry with him. I suppose spending a whole day with Harry was enough to make me cross. Boys are so stupid. I think I am tired of pleasure
                               ure seeking, and, in future, shall remain with mama when the others make any excursions. 
                           OCT. 15 To-day the others all went to sail on the lake, but I stayed with mama, and when I had read to her for a long time, she sent me out on the terrace to enjoy the sunshine. I had not been sitting there long when Mr. Harrington joined me. I was surprised, for Jenny told me he was going with them. After a little conversation, we went to walk in the woods, and the air and everything was so lovely that I forgot all about the time. It was five O'clock when we got home, and the sailing party had just returned. I enjoyed the day as much as I should if I had gone with them. I am getting too old for so much fun and noise, and enjoy a quiet talk with a friend much more. 
                           NOV. 1. Mama is so much better and likes this place so much that I think we shall remain here till December. The Bakers have gone to Rome and the house is very nearly deserted. I wonder why Mr. Harrington stays here; it can't be to teach me Italian and take me out rowing, but I can't see that he does anything else. He says he means to spend the winter in Rome. I am very glad, for papa finds him such an agreeable companion. We hear from Blanche that Frank is much interested in politics, and she thinks he intends to devote himself to them. What a dreadful thing! I was afraid that that gash in his head would lead to unhappiness. Blanche seems pleased, however; says that she always hoped that her husband would
                               be distinguished in some way, and that Frank is perfect. I'm glad she thinks so, but can not agree with her, for I'm sure he has a hot, temper and is quite as conceited as Mr. Harrington used to be, if he does not show it in the same way. 
                           APRIL 20. I have not written in my diary for months, and am afraid I can not remember all that has happened since November. We have been in Italy all winter, most of the time in Rome, and returned to the "Hotel Byron" only five days ago. This place seems to have changed since last autumn. There is no one here of our acquaintance, but that can not make any difference. In fact I am glad that the Bakers are not here, for Jenny made herself very disagreeable during the winter, always watching Mr. Harrington and me-and once she congratulated him upon our engagement, which of course annoyed me very much. Not that Mr. Harrington paid any attention to her ill-natured remark, for we are as friendly as ever, but it is so impertinent to gossip in that way Mr. Harrington has been with us nearly all winter and was exceedingly kind to us when papa was ill. The more I know of him, the more I admire and respect him. I hope that nothing will ever happen to destroy our friendship. 
                         
                      
                  
                
                
               Something in this last sentence seemed to arrest Miss Kate's attention, for she stopped writing and drummed idly on the table with her pen, while her expression became more and more thoughtful, and even a little sad, as she
                   looked from her window upon the lake whose dancing waves gleamed brightly in the sunlight. 
               She was thinking probably of the pleasures and pains of friendship, for as her eyes fell upon the little boat in which she and Harrington used to float for hours upon the water, she involuntarily sighed, and rising listlessly, put away her writing-desk and prepared herself for a walk. 
               She wore a rather indifferent, dissatisfied air as she went down the stairs and out at the door, and did not deign to glance at the garden in which she had formerly taken so much pleasure. If she had she would have seen a tall young gentleman, with eye-glasses, who, as she left the house, stepped quickly behind a large bush, and then, the moment after, as if ashamed of his flight, appeared again, and with a rapid step followed her to the beach, reaching," her side just as her hand touched the rope which held the little boat a struggling captive to the shore. 
               "Mr.Harrington!" exclaimed Kate, flushing scarlet and trembling violently, "how did you get here! You have startled me dreadfully; I thought you were on your way to Paris to join your family." 
               "So I am," replied Harrington, for he it was, "but I have something to attend to here first. I am sorry to have interrupted your pleasant thoughts, however; I can see by your face that I am intruding." 
               "O! not in the least," stammered Kate, "I am very glad to see you-that is, papa wished this morning that you were here." Then with a mental ejaculation of "O,
                   what a goose I am!" she added hastily, "I was just thinking of you." 
               "Were you?" interrupted Harrington, looking both pleased and amused. "Strange as it may seem, you were at that moment engrossing my thoughts. Suppose we get into this boat and row for an hour or two. We can have an interchange of thoughts then without interruption." 
               So, saying, he held out his hand to help her into the boat, but seeing, her hesitate, he added in a tone of entreaty, "It is my only day here." Kate could not refuse and jumped lightly into the boat, thinking as she did so, "there is no harm in going with a friend. I used to go without a moment's hesitation." O, self-deceiver! You knew well enough that it was not the voice of friendship which persuaded you to enter that boat. 
               Perhaps it was the consciousness of this fact that made Kate so ill at ease after she had taken her seat. She could not get settled comfortably for several minutes, and when she could find no more fault with the arrangement of her shawl and hat she seemed to think it necessary to monopolize the conversation, for she talked so rapidly about mama's health, the lovely day, their last news from America, and other topics, not having the least connection with each other, that her companion was, perforce, silent. He tried several times to interrupt this stream of talk, but ineffectually, and at last, growing tired, he interrupted her by saying impatiently, 
               "I am glad that your plans are so satisfactory to you,
                   but allow me to say that I did not bring you out in this boat that you might tell me the best way of reaching St. Petersburg, but because I want your decision in a matter much more important to my happiness. You must know by this, time that my feeling for you has gone far beyond mere friendship." 
               "I did not," said Kate, almost inaudibly. 
               "You might easily have seen it if you had chosen," replied he, "for I have tried in a thousand ways to make you aware of it, and to find out whether your own heart had undergone a like change, but I never could make you betray yourself." 
               "It was very unkind of you to attempt it, interrupted Kate, "I am glad to know that I have succeeded so well in concealing my"-she stopped, but her deep blush and downcast eyes finished the sentence for her. 
               "Then you do care for me," said Harrington, unable to repress a smile, "I confess I had begun to despair of gaining your affection; nothing short of your own declaration would have convinced me that I could have been so fortunate." 
               "I never said anything of the kind," exclaimed poor Kate, hopelessly confused. 
               "But you mean it, do you not?" whispered he. "You can not be so cruel as to tell me that it is in vain I love you." 
               Apparently, Kate found it impossible to deny this last 
                   
                   assertion, for she was silent, and we must conclude that she could not find it in her heart to disappoint him. 
               Let us turn from this scene, reader, it is too shocking. It was not quite a year since Harrington had fled from Blanche, thinking himself broken-hearted; and Kate at the same time had declared that nothing could induce her to marry. And yet here they were, so absorbed in each other that they never even noticed that the sun was very low, and that if they did not mean to spend the evening on the water they must hasten to the shore. 
               Let us hope that they were always as happy, and that Kate never found reason to regret that very foolish remark about her feelings. 
               And so we will close this book with the observation, that if we find any moral in it, it is-that too much faith in the constancy of any human being, is foolish; and that it is very wrong to believe too strongly in what are called facts. There was Frank, for instance; how are you to know when a man is really dead? 
               
                   
                
                
               
                   
                
             
            THE END. 
         
       
   
