
    ----CITATION----
        Anonymous. The Smuggler's Daughter and Other Tales .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC7833
    ----FULL TEXT----
         
      
         
            The smuggler's daughter 
            
               REPRODUCED FROM THE COPY IN THE
HENRY E. HUNTINGTON LIBRARY
FOR REFERENCE ONLY. NOT FOR REPRODUCTION


YALUA BLE B OKS
No. 167 Wialnut Street. Cincinnati

b ~  r y f  tui ~ran HEiory      containing selee.
tions froutithe bedt and most relibleautfors on the subject
of A0neri anl inty Dography, Travels, 'Commerce, Sta
tietIs,'1nd an el z0,eszary Battles, &amp;c., &amp;c. Also, Anee
. }ddi~e xt  .°d       1   os A ticles. Illtistrated wik
about n&amp;   nd ed 8 t do r y Engraings. 1 vol.,timperial
vo; fl e n zbossed leIth1"binding, gilt back, mrbleedge
640 paies    d Y'rce $8;0 , loth binding, $2 50. e
iesi  rI ?lPictorial Lib     ary, containing valuable
Papers oneVarious Subjects,. comprising Natural History,
Natural Socences,-Agriculture, Rural Economy, Biography,
line Arts,'The Orientals, Travels, Geography, Botany, Mis-
cellaneous Readings, &amp;c., &amp;c. Illustrated with more than
fve hundred           n igra gngs. 1 vol., imperial 8vo, 640 'pages
;find;erembossed leather bindi g, gilt back, marble edge, .Price
$3 00. 019th'$2 50.
'lo Libraty of Gene al Inuwledge, embrace
ing a greatvariety of subjedte in: History, Biography, As.
tronomy, Ardhitecture, Natural History. Poetry, Tales, &amp;;c.,
&amp;e., and about one hundred' and' twenty useful Receipts.
Embellished with upward of two hundred Engravings.
i "vo., imperial 8vo; Cloth binding, Price $1 251
Elie great amount of valuable information contained in the
above volumes, and the large number'of fine Engravings
illustrative of the subjects, render them the most interesting
and useful works for all classes of readers, and especially in
families where there are children.             .~
The Twelveltonthes'olunteer; or, Journal of a'
Campaign in Mexico; comprising four general subjects-.
1. A Soldier's bife in Camp; Amusements; Duties; Hard-
shipse 2. A Da«ription of Texas and Mexico, an seen on the
march. 3. Manners; Customs; Religious Ceremonies of
th,4 Mexicans. 4. The operations of all.the Twelve Months''
Volunteers; including a complete History of the War with
Mexico. Embellished with twenty correct Engravings, from
Drawings by the aithori By GEo. C. Punia, of Company
G. 8vo., cloth binding, Price $2 00.
'has is a truthful and remarkably spiritedly written book-
full of life, incident,'and character.
Iilstory of ,Mexico, Her Civil Wars, and Colonial and
Revolutionary Annals, from the period of the Spanish Con-
quest, 1020, to the Treaty of Peace, 1848. , By Pna# YOqNG7
M. D., andaGm. C. FUBnEa, Esq.' With a Map and Illustra-
tions. Library style, or cloth, Price $2 50.
Equal to Prescott in style.
Doniphan'a Expedition, containing an account of
the Conquest of New Mexico; General Kearney's Expedition
to California;Doniphan's Campaign against thi Navajos;
his unparalleled March upon Chihuahua and Durango;, and
the operationsof (len. Price ali Santa FV; with a Sketch of
the Life of Colonel 'Dniphan' By JOHN T. HUncas, of the
first Regiment of Mo. Cavalry Embellished with fine $teel
Portraits of Colonel Doniphan' and Gen. Price, a Map, Plans
of  Battle-fields, and number of fine Wood Cuts. 12mo.,
cloth binding, Price $1 00. Octavo ed., paper cover, 25 ets.
This was one of the most remarkable and wonderful expedi-
tions on record.
'oughts a         ithe Original Uaityof the Ru.
man4   Race. Second edition, revised and enlarged. By
?aoh. hQ RLES CALDWELL, of Louisville, Ky. 12mo.. cloth,
Pr-ice'tts.:
"This 'is a second edition of a work which deserves a wide
clrculation."-Literary World.
;  e,6 tig05of the Natural Distory of Creation;
with a sequel. 12mo. Cloth, $1 00. Paper cover, 60 ets.
o' tern    Pilot    containing Charts of the Ohio
anthe Mississipp from the Mouth of the Missouri
't OheGlf of 'Mexico, acmanied with Directions for
Nvgipg the same, and a Giazetteer or JDescription of
tTwns'on their banks, Tributary fitreams, &amp;c. Also,
a~vrety of matter interesting to' Travelers, and :all con-.
ce~1In the navigation of those Rivers, with a Table of
Distanes from town to Town.'By SAMUEL CUNMIQNGs.' Re-
visel nd' Corrected by'Captamns .Calanas Ross 'and 5JoN
z iga. 1 vol.; Svo., half bound, Price 75 eta-.
eWdn 1nas ew Riyer Guside ; or, a Gasetteer of all
thet Toi on the'Western Waters; containing Sketehes of
te iti , owns, and-Oounties bordering on the Ohio and
)Iiss $Rivers, and their Principal Tributaries; together

with their Population, Products, Commerce, &amp;c. &amp;c., and
many interesting Events of History connected with them.
Compiled from the latest and best authority. Illustrated
with forty-four Maps of the Rivers including all the towns
on their banks. Svo, paper cover, 25 est.
B Darns.'Work., complete. The'*orks of tonrar BURNS
in Prose.and Verse, with an account of his Life, and a
Criticism on his writings. To which are prefixed some ob-
servations on the Character and Condition of the Scottish
Peasantry, by Jas Currie, M. D.    Including Additional
Poems, extractat from a late edition, edited by Allan Cun-
ningham. WiiRtm Two Steel Plates. 1 vol., 8vo., beautifully
printed, library style, $1 75. Cloth, $1 50.
Also, an edition -of BURNS' POEMS, with Glossary and
Life, by James Currie, M. D. 82mo., cloth, .Price 60 ets. .
Ready Reckoner;. or, Federal Calculator; giving the
amount in dollars and cents, of any number of articles, from
one to one thousand, at any price, from a fourth of a cent
to ten dollars, and equally applicable to many other species
of calculation, as is shown in the explanation. To which
are added -many useful tables and forms. Half bound,
Price 15 ets.
The Gem.- A Handsome and Useful Present for all sea-
sons, containing Selections of Prose and Poetry of a moral,
instructive, and useful character, including a number of
Stories and Tales. Illustrated with two colored Plates, and
ten fine Engravings. 824 pages. Printed on fine paper,
bound in embossed cambric, gilt back, Price$l 50.
Marriage and the Duties of the Marriage
Relations.      By the Rev. Gso. W. Qun Y. In neat
embossed cloth binding, gilt back, Price 50 ets. Full gilt,
75 ets.
Subjects: I. Marriage-its Blessings. II. Importance of Right
Views of Marriage. - Advantages and Disadvantages of Early
Marriage. III. Hints in the Choice of a Companion. IV,
Hints in the Choice of a Companion, continued. V. Moral
Duties of Husband and Wie,    VI. Reciprocal Duties of
Husband and Wife.
"This volume is well calculated to lessen the trials and diffi-
culties common to the lot of humanity, whether in married
or single state. There are rough roads and stormy .days
in the path of most young married people; yet with such
knowledge of correct rules and principles- as this volume
presents, theserough roads will be made smooth-the
storms be calmed, and all the little difficulties attendant
upon this divine- Institution alleviated. It is a delightful
and instructive volume .for the 'young, from the pen of a
good pastor, who has compiled the work from a series of
Lectures delivered to..the youth of- his congregation.  It
abounds in simple truths, well calculated to lead the mind
to profitable reflection."-Ind. Journal.
The American Form Book and Legal Guide,
containing the most Reliable Information-relating to Laws,
Forms of Instruments under Seal, etc., required by the
Business Man, the Mechanic, the Farmer, etc., in almost
every possible circumstance in the ordinary course of Busi-
ness Transactions; all adapted to' the Laws of Every State
in the Union. By a Member of the Cincinnati Bar. In one
vol., l2mo. law sheep binding. $1 00.
This work has been prepared with scrupulous care by a gentle.
man of the Cincinnati Bar, well qualified for such an under.
taking, and contains,.Ii small compass, an unusual amount
of information of a highly useful and practical character,
unsurpassed in accuracy and 'comprehensiveness of' detail,
relating to the varied business interests of society, and
adapted to the wants of every vocation in life; prepared in
accordance 'with the requirements of recent laws, of the
,several states, and the New Qonstitutions of such states as
have adopted them. The plainest and most simple, yet
equally binding forms have been substituted, in many in
stances, for the obsolete and wordy styles heretofore in use
It has been $he design to make the varied- information so
plain, that, although not attempting to "Make every man
his own lawyer, with a fool for his client," yet none need err
In using any of'the form#u, tic., contained herein. In a com-
munity like ours, where almost every man is a trader-.-
where property is constantly changing hands, and where so
manyf business transactions requiring the mediunm of legal
evidence are of daily occurrence among our Farmers, .5e-
clianics, and Bouseholders, as well as regular business nieu,

S UGGL
DA  UGHTElR, m]t

S'

4)-°

ALSO:
THE TWO MAIPENS,
BY T. S. ARTHUR.

CINCINNATI:

PUBLISHED BY
167 WALNUT

U. P. JAMES,
S T RE E T,

--' "   !Yr~~ma1   _  f'  ' 1i -' _.  '  .~

tI  ,  - ."

THE

a

fie., ;.,,.       ^. : i=- . .,: {  ,  ,          ._   -  . -...  r ... _.  .  - n,.45. } s-..w ...-.c ...:  , ..wi, yy ,,;yr   .} ,.,,s..,...            -             .,  ..   ...-.....+                            .w;                ti' Wie       J[  "' =   ' W~'.           °.        .-     ''     '"i                     -.  ...
., ..r..            - re".,                                                                                                                 . vN'     G   ay';i1 iY.,.a    d.,.1.                        ....,i4sgwi..wsa'. .:.w: .°   /P*iwa' .wt          r. @9-}   1": Mi, "+w.nr,}w           ,y ,., ,   ,v.Ky  , , ;.{.; .C,.qt.,Lryy,"
0                            '                                                                                                     +
.                                                                                                                                                                                             i

r
d

dub (!)1jpr aIc.


0 NTENTS.
The Smuggler's Daughter.  .............
The Faded Girl....."......   .......
The Last of thebLine--ByAMrs. S. C. Hal. . . ......
The Two Maidens-By7T. .sArthur.. ......
The Secret. A Tale from the French..............      -
The Blighted One. -... .....    .     .. . .    -
The Spanish Headsman   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
The Legend of Rose Roche-By the Author of "Stories of
Waterloo.". . .. . ... .
BarbaraS-     , By Charles Lamb
The 'Trysting Tree . . . . . . . . . . . . . . *..... . .
A Story of the Heart............... . . . . . . . .
The Vacant Chair-By J.M. Wilson, Esq. ...
The Queen of the Meadow--By Miss Mitford..........
Pauline DeMoulan.    n.... ..................
The Wine Merchant's Story.-By the author of " Tue ng's
3

f
16'
36t
tf.
40i
49
57
65
4
45
49
9 
85
1

{      !    k
fY Sj'  I
"'      i
'; f
'
f~
t, 't:
i

-&amp;   --"                                        .1              -

. =f :

,'                                                             ,


/

THE SMUGGLER'S DAUGHTER.

A FEW weeks since business caused
ny attendance at the admiralty. While
waiting in one of the anti-rooms, I heard
myself accosted by name by a tall. and
elegant looking man standing neir me.-
'My eye rested on his figure, but memory
refused recognition in the gaze. I in-
quired his identity. My surprise was
great at finding he was one of my dear-
est and earliest friends; and the start of
astonishment, almost-of pain, which his
revelation elicited from e, must have
communicated to him t e knowledge of
the withering havoc 1 ich sorrow had
made on his person. Only five years
had elapsed since o r last meeting, and
that period, when  nmarked by mentalI
suffering or sicknes , may pass over man
while in his prime- nd Capt. Tancred
was now only thirty-fiv -without leav
ing a record of its flight.
I had known him in boyhood: he had
been my wildest, but the truest and most
generous of my school companions. His
presence had ever been the signal for
some thoughtless freak or hazardous ad-
venture. With a spirit fresh and buoy-
ant as the mountain air, exuberant health,
and exhaustless vivacity, he was formed to
be the idol of his associates. He seemed
destined for happiness; he had every el-
ement of it in himself: and utterly ex- I
empt from that contracting selfishness
which binds up the sympathies of too E
many natures, he revelled in the joy oft
dispensing it to others. Left to the choice
of a profession, he selected that of the'
sea: it assimilated'best with his taste,
for it afforded indulgence to his peculiarly

temperament, which, always seeking af-
ter strong excitements, would even court
danger in all its varieties. The very char-
acter of the element had charms for him r
he loved -its false unsubstantial surface,
its engulphing depths, its perilous quick-
sands, the warfare of its waves, whose
wild hoarse murmurs seem to warn man
from their territories ; they had terror in
their sound, and that sound was music to
his ears. Often when the tempest from
above had-lashed theocean into fury,
and it boiled forth its wrath in billows
which threatened destruction to aught of
human power that dared its ire, I have
known him singly to embark in a little
boat, in assertion, as he would say, of
man's prerogatives, and to trample on the
enemy which seemed to oppose his free
agency over nature and her works.
At the termination of our maritime
struggles, finding his very soul enervated
at the prospect of indolent peace, he ob-
tained command of a revenue cutter, and
I parted with him in the full glow of
health, on his departure for the coast of
Norfolk, to enter on his new service. En-
gaged in active pursuits, I had little op-
portunity for -correspondence ; but my
heart often held communion wihim,
who was the dearest friend " had ever
known. An interval of leisure havitig
occurred in my occupation, I had resolv-
ed on visiting him a few days 'subse-
quently to the period when chance again
united us. And was it-could it be
Tancred, the gay, the handsome, the vol-
atile Tanered, who stood before me?
His very voice seemed changed; his ac-
9

1
9                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              I                    '
"                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           r     .1
"                                                    it "" J        'r
,                                         r          t      dk
.-                                               a   +rtt              -                              --,wr     ,r. ai  +ls  -.li;V    .  Su   rt, p._raw. *...".a.:, ra. ..: 4wr  ..,^t b } ky,                                                   L -
y  r       a       swri .                                                           l                                              rue.                 i:!_ "i            Y"  .d.:,t . '
4A -1*4
79a r                  SM         Jt        a: +d h-'       3     + .ioiz                          w  s44 us: "    .roc+t c#Yti   .rt+ ' .s.4ns4 ;tr(  '  =:    #aS'e         +''w .+iis"   ;Mi. 'U,1   D"'$    '01tF'7, r} 'a'::4' l,' "p,.:s +..-,suss:.-_                                           _.
r

-'
'             a

i w
fyT:
r
,r 'tr
$i   t
-
t iI
E
T
tf
#i+!
i;
1x
1   sEa
+
i       '
J
3      is
°t
1
,j
i
F
,t
i
i  i
-     ,n
t
4

s                                                                '  .

,-W,#M

t
,i

9
r
.,,
,1
C
t
i1
4

4

}

\  I
tp
k  J


10                    The Smuggler's .Daughter.

cents had now a mournful and drear
cadence, like the responses of a rifte
cavern, and they were the echoes of
bare and shivered heart. There wa
still about him the exquisite polish of-de
meanor so often instinctive with hig]
birth-for Tancred was nobly connected
--which had always distinguished him
but the lofty bearing, the unquailing eye
the sunny smile, was gone for ever! A
an interview which I afterwards had with
him, he disclosed to me the events which
had produced such a metamorphosis in
his aspect and manner. The substance(
wais as follows-
The signal station which Captain Tan
cred commanded was situated, as I have
said, on the coast of Norfolk. It was
near a remote hamlet, and partook, in an
eminent degree, of that dulness and in-
sipidity which so often distinguishes a
country village. The scenery was not
of that elevated and picturesque charac-
ter, which, in many parts of England,
rivalling in loveliness and grandeur the
landscapes of Italy or Switzerland, might
well content a people less migratory than
ourselves, with the native samples it dis-
plays of nature's power.  W      had
none of this; the painter or the poet
might have looked' on it without the
faintest glow of that kindling enthusiasm
which rushes from the heart and thrills
through the frame, at the sight (f beauty,'
in whatever guise displayed, uninstruct-
ed, unaltered, by the sophistications of
art--fresh, luxuriant, and perfect, the vis-
ible and tangible evidence of that uner-
ring system of harmony and arrangement,
by which the Divine Ruler conducts the
universe. The inhabitants, too, of W---
were generally uncultivated and illiterate.
Education had there been tardy in its civ-
ilizing influence; and there was amongst
the lower classes--the mass of the popu-
lation.---little of that amenity of feeling
and manner which may in some measure
atone for the absence of -the higher mental
qualities. The service in which Capt.
'Tancred was engaged drew an almost
entire line of demarkation between him-j
self and his neighbors. H-e met them,1
and perchance the bow and courtesy of
compelled deference were accorded; but1

The Smuggler's Daughter.                      11
the individual of the danger of her situ- lose its look of boundless radiance; while
ation, or curiosity to discover who was a glance of deep, mournful, and passion-
the lonely wanderer--or gallantry, as that ate feeling, would beam from its azure
wanderer bore the outline of a female, depths, aind the dark silken fringe which
which led him hastily forward to offer shrouded its glory become gemmed with
protection. It was declined by the young the tears of silent sorrow.
and lovely girl to whom it was proffered,  Tancred often interrogated her as to
with such bewitching yet shrinking ti- the cause of her unavowed grief. To            (
midity, such trembling apprehensiveness, imagine it the result of personal miscon-
that his interest was far more, powerfully duct was incompatible with the angelic
awakened by her refusal, thaq if she 'had purity which so peculiarly distinguished
acceded to his request. Casual and slight, her, and which, even more, perhaps, than'
however, as this introduction to each oth- her extreme loveliness, captivated hisim-
er may seem, it formed the basis of a agination and enthralled his heart. Of
permanent acquaintance. It is unneces- her relations and friends she spoke little.
sary for me to trace its progress, or to She talked indeed of her father, but it  ,
follow it through all its graduations, was evident that feai' and awe were blend-
while.germinating into friendship, till it ed with filial love and duty. That she
arrived at the maturity of love. The moved in the lower walks of life, her ap-
developement of a passion, which in- pearance indicated, though in her conver-
volves the whole sum of earthly happi- sation, and in the soft and gentle repose
ness of two individuals-which embraces of her manner, there was not discovered
in its issue anguish or bliss to them, the slightest taint of vulgarity. Theymet
.here and hereafter, may yet be too defi- but seldom, and each time with the re-
cient in striking peculiarity of incident to solve on Helen's lips of parting forever !
engage the sympathies of other's. To a' But who shall tell the struggle it requires
certain point this was the case in the at- voluntarily to separate from a being most
tachment of Capt. Tancred and Helen, dear to us? Policy and prudence-
for so was his idol called. There was a worldly wisdom may bid us ha--st the
mystery about her, which she seemed fetters which enchain our souls; but
most unwilling to account for or unravel, when those fetters are, at the same time,

y there was 'neither glance, nor tone, nor
d word of sympathy exchanged. He was
a looked upon, by even those who stood
s unconnected with the illicit' traffic which
it devolved on him to oppose, with
h distrust and suspicion. He was one of
d those men, however, whose activity and
healthiness of temperament supply to
, themselves the deficiencies of place and
t people. Still there were moments when
his customary employment failed of
amusement, when even his own beloved
'element was gazed upon with an eye of
listlessness and dissatisfaction, when he
would more gladly have enjoyed commu-
nion with living than inanimate nature.
In one of these moods 'he wandered
forth on the beach. It was at that hour
when
The moon was up, and yet it was not inght.
The sun was still in the sky, and the
ocean blushed in- the gorgeous beams
which crimsoned the west. A thousand
clouds floated around the throne of his
expiring glory, as though they were anx-
ious to bear away to some favorite and
distant clime, a trace of his splendor. A
few stars were out to mark and guard the
orbit of the timid moon, which, pale and
more beautiful than all, seemed the type
of that blissful world of peace and rest,
from which she had just emerged.--
Tancred felt in its full force the might
and majesty around .him. Who can
look on the boundless deep, the uncir-
cumscribed firmament, the "stars which
are the poetry of heaven," and not feel
his own insignificance in the scale of cre-
ation ?  Who can think of the world, its
empty distinctions, its feverish passions,
its trivial pursuits, while gazing on the
immensity of nature ? The heart must
be dead to every finer impulse, the mind
destitute of every noble desire, which
can restrict its views and wishes to mor-
tality, while contemplating the symbols
of immortality!       .-
Immersed in his own reflections, the
hours glided imperceptibly on, and Tan-
cred started, on finding the waves were
" winning their way to the golden shore."
lHe was about to retreat hastily, when a
form at a distance met his oIbservation.
Perhaps it might be humanity to warn

the only connecting links between us and
happiness--when the snapping of them
rives asunder, too, the ties of sympathy,
and affection--oh ! who shall marvel that
we hug the chain closer and closer, till
the meshes become so woven and entan-
gled with our very heart's strings, that
the breaking of the one may shiver the
others too !
Tancred, convinced that the destiny of
his future life depended for light or dark.
ness on his beloved .Helen, offered his
hand, though literally ignorant of the
very name of her to whom he tendered
it. His proposal was received in silence
and tears ; still it was not rejected ; in-
deed a faint smile illuminated her counte-
nance, and a slight pressure of the hand
she gave, when he talked of the ensuing
week for their nuptials. This was su-
perstructure enough for Tancred to build
a fairy castle of hope upon, and he anti-
cipated with unbounded joy, the near

7'}I

7

Beyond the name of Helen, he was even
ignorant how the object of his worship
was designated. "A rose by any other
name would smell as sweet !" and, while
gazing on the exquisite being before him,
he often thought how little accessary
were name, birth, or station, to the pos-
session of beauty, grace, and dignity.
She was eighteen, yet looked even child-
ishly young for that brief date of years.
Her form was bounding and light, and
there was a freedom and elasticity in her
step, which her natural quietness of'spirit
and demeanor at times could scarcely con-
trol. There were moments when a dark
and melancholy shade would steal across-
a brow pure and clear as the fair and
.stainless snows of heaven; and the small
rosy mouth, which seemed blushing for
the peril its matchless beauty exposed
others to, would compress and almost
quiver with internal agony. The eye,
too, so blue and bright, would sometimes

;
.Ltt(' gQ  JM4r                  x r ;.+=: r'                                                                  1 y     i' .,   i: ;. sU.y w                                                     '               " 'R  I
- "+S a."...                       a                  Yv nr"                              r                ..A,         Lty   LL't 2,         v X rw   i     M    'f                            'L   Oe             ,
. r=-,si _  k ,r"rsu1^' *..iR .,,r,. _  ,                                                                          V            w'Fr.,r a'              Nw+ 7a' s z.
_                                                           -
+                                                                                                                                                                                                                          e

;,yam ;?,-t kw


12

prospect of calling Helen, the fair, th
delicate Helen, his own forever !
But now to deviate from the order o
my narrative.
In a ragged and rarely-trodden pat
which led to the beach, stood a mea
and. lonely hut. It was of that coars
and rude description which the min
involuntarily associates with the ide
of even squalid poverty, and fror
which the eye retreats, while the boson
yields a sigh -for those condemned to in
habit it. It wore a cheerless aspect, a
air of negligence and gloomy desolate
ness, which seemed as though it wer
wilfully indulged, and even prided in
The inmates of this hut consisted of al
old man and his daughter--little wa
known of them. The ascetip and un
compromising sternness of the father op
rated so powerfully against the daugh
ter, that her meek demeanor and singula
loveliness could hardly subdue the gene
ral feeling of dislike which was entertain
ed for them. Of their former occupation
or even the precise nature of their pres
ent ' employment, none were aware
Some imagined that the father labored
under a painful alienation of reason; for
there was at times. a savage moodiness
about him which approximated to insani-
ty. He seldom was met in the hamlet,
and neither visited nor received his neigh-
bors, by many of whom, as he had been
more than once surprised in the exercise
of fire-arms and the arrangement of sea-
tackle, it was supposed that he followed
the dark, desperate, and unlicensed trade'
of smuggling.-The unavowed exercise,
too, of any other occupation, rendered
the belief prevalent and strong. Nor
was suspicion false. Old Denham, which
was the appellation of Helen's father,
was a smuggler by vocation and choice,
it, might be also said, by nature. In early
life he had filled a subaltern situation in
the navy; but the moroseness of his tem-
per led to quarrels with his captain, and
he quitted an honorable service, to engage
in a dishonorable traffic. He had fancied
himself wronged, though he himself was
his own enemy. The conviction, how-
ever, of having been injured, combined
with the loss of a wife, who, though he

e tyrannized over while living, he bewailed
ceaselessly when dead, and the accidental
)f death of an only son, soured his disposi,
Lion to absolute malignity.- The constant
h poverty which he struggled with, his ex-
.n clusion from all -society, and even the
e beauty of Helen, which might render her
d so accessible to design and danger-all
a lent their aid in making Denham an ob-
n ject of restless anxiety to his child, and
n detestation to his neighbors.
-   It has been stated, that, in ignorance
n of her condition in life, in ignorance that
- he had 'proffered his hand to one whose
e father would have had little compunction
. in stabbing him to the heart, Capt. Tan-
n cred had fixed the following week for
s uniting himself to the smuggler's daugh-
- ter. For several nights a vessel had been
- observed floating on the dark waters,
- which had aroused the suspicions of
r Captain Tancred. - On the Saturday night
- preceding the week in which he fondly
- hoped to realize his heart's dearest wish,
it was again descried. On that evening
a seaman, who had recently been added
to their detachment, was on watch for the
l first time. By the moonlight he recog-.
nized in the commander of the little ves-
sel a notorious smuggler who had long
infested the coast of Kent, where he had
previously served, but always eluded pur-
suit, and had for some months disappear-
ed from the neighborhood. The intelli-
gence was communicated to Captain
Tancred, who, with a party of men, put
off in chase. It was a wild and stormy
night; the moon at intervals only broke
through the huge masses of cloud which
drifted along the sky, the darkness of
which received frequent illuminations
from  the lightning's blue glare. The
wind howled around, and
From peak to peak the rattling crags among,
Leaped the live thunder.
Many a heart might have blenched from
daring man's and heaven's wrath 'on
such a night as this ; but Tancred and
his companions were fearless ; duty ex.-
cited them, and they sped 'onwards daunt-
lessly. The vessels met, and a short but
determined encounter ensued. The ni.
merical strength of the smugglers was

trifling in comparison with their oppo-
nents; but despair lent them gigantic en-
ergy, and they fought as though this world:
and the next had been staked on the is-
sue of the engagement. After a brief
space, however, the scuffle terminated in
the defeat and capture of the smugglers.
Yet there was one amongst them who;
stood unharmed, unyielding, undismayed.
Throughout the combat a savage desper-
ateness and ferocity of conduct had dis-
tinguished him from his comrades, His'
arm brandished a huge cutlass, which he
raised to strike at the head of Captain,
Tancred, who at the same moment.dis-
charged his blunderbuss. One ball en-
tered the heart of the smuggler, and a:
gurgling splash of blood welled from his
side. One deep short groan, and the!
heart stopped its pulsations, and he fell"
a heavy corpse at the feet of Tancred!
But the smuggler was not alone in his
death-nor a single victim to Tancred's,
fathl weapon ;-" its scattered shot de-
struction dealt around." In the com-
mencement of the affray, a slight figure,
masked, and enveloped in a large cloak,)
had es  aped 'observation by crouching in,
one corner of the vessel. As the danger
thickegd, however, that form  sprang
from concealment,,and was about to in-
terpose between the combatants, when,
the fatal trigger was pulled, and a random
bullet entered a bosom heaving with love
for its murderer. The brave and the,
weak, the stern and the delicate, alike had;
been annihilated by Tancred's arm, and,
lay prostrate before him! The vessel'
steered hastily back to the shore, and
then was the discovery made, which
stamped with unalloyed and unmitigable
grief the future life of Tancred. Thel
bodies of the smuggler and his comrades'
were removed from   the boat.. There
was no mask to hide the features of 01(d
Denhani, and his ascertained identity cre-
ated little sympathy. But the tearing off
the mask, the removal of the fatal dis-
guise from the figure of his youthful ad-
herent, awakened a thrill of horror, and
interest, and pity, in many a rugged
breast, and overwhelmed one with a tide
of misery that never ebbed. Perception

-" v            L

The Smuggler's Daughter.

his daughter's state of unprotected loveli-
ness might be invaded by insult. There
was no ostentatious parade of grief about
rT'ancred; not a single tear did he shed:
over the grave, when it opened to receive
his life's essence. But the blight, had
struck at his heart, withered up every
blossom of joy, and blasted, as with vol-
canic influence, the' soft verdure of hope-
that had grown there. No 'amusements
beguiled him of woe, no occupation rob-
bed him of one pang of recollection..
"Memory ceaselessly plied the work of
pain," and at the age of thirty-five he ap-
peared before me, a bankrupt of joy, with
a shattered frame, haggard looks, and a..
wasted and agonized heart !

n'' A
'x;

The Smuggler's Daughter.

at first refused to y
reality of the appear
Horror without him
hope,, were in the con
tion did come, and th
the matchless agon3
Yes ! it was the co:
lay before him--kill
hand ! The fair, the
being whom he had v
idolatry of devoted l
on his bosom in the
pure affection, and to
the whole earthly su
He put aside the gol
now clotted with go
marble cheek, who;
stained with blood.-
yet on the lids lay a f
the latest mementos
The little flower whi
evening presented to
in her bosom. It wa,
but, worthless as it a
him the world's richer
ed poor for the purch
On inquiry it was p
in his wayward mop
his daughter to be h
unlawful and danger
reasonable motive co
such proceedings by
be traced to the nat
disposition, or might
fears "that he somet

_i. .
1
_ ,r
;r
Y
-s

t
w
,
Y                                                                                                                                               '
,                                                                       '                                            i
e.    ''  ^ .  rt w,"d: ,' are  F'' .1 t ",  " .+:Y '@ r"+r.ron.   t Nv--r :.w a' i ,w .V  v«:usrti'a , w'"  " T, - .   ' -i.+kX.-vi. +y - aY^..dii...          Mir."vaV'..w    -r.
1. 1

_              _   '..av  ..  .        p ~tr                                                               ..              ., if  .w.a, asw wrrweY,...      M                                    .-          R}A1    U, y t .  'an..,1d          °.: (,y.W  2       1                         ' d'44                    °
.... , t aL J I. { v P                                      i    a Y                                                 .« i       tic                    7 M                                     }                                ) y ' g7_P'_,;r 'R  f'.{ «w.v  ds 'Vi. IWr '             5;          . . r+                               t
:N 11fA24.iWjdl4%41iMYdN4li:x 7l i     1  W '4P M             M   '° Y                NYA'.M/iCNri11!d Vtd r-  ' *',.i'+4W.'Mb litF"Y  . 4rt'  ,   e                                      R             a          (1  aRT}M^ q~ M           .'a                  Y          ,                 .dK"
§                          t                  ,                                                                                                                     ,

51                  i

it
r
'                                                   t                                                               ikwt.^Y .: iw...  .Ww...     - -     ...   , ...L ,_  - _   _   w! .Y' y       2  -      " w....a aie..i,. ,,.i . r ..ui...  i  _ i .  .p'.  a.. f.l r&amp;i , T%.  7k  ,'L14WZ'!f[   dL    a .i L                  .i

It
13
field credence to the
since presented to it.
it, despair without
viction; but convic-
e mind sickens with
y of the moment.
rpse of Helen that
ed, too, by his own
e fond, the beautiful
worshipped with the
ove ; who had lain
sweet confidence of
whom he had been
m of weal or woe!
len hair, which was
)re, and kissed the
se whiteness was
Her eye was closed,
w glimmering tears,
of human suffering.
ich he had that very
her, was yet hidden  -
s crushed and faded;
ppeared to some, to
es would have seem-
ase of the holy relic.
roved that Denham,
ds, would often take
is companion in his
)us enterprises. No
uld be assigned for
others ;,it could only
ural tyranny of his
find solution in the
times expressed lest

a


The Faded Girl.

I KNEW Anna Delaney in her earl
childhood. She was a lovely little be
ing--playful as a fawn, bounding as at
antelope. I parted from her for a few
years, and when I returned, she was
blossoming beauty of sixteen summers-
a flirt in the fullest sense of the phrase
and surrounded by admirers. Her sligh
frame had rounded to perfect grace--
deeper fire lit the brilliance of her eye
and a stronger glow played fitfully upon
her cheek. Her intellect, also, had won
derfully developed. She- was even in
her childhood esteemed precocious in
mind and smart beyond her years; but I
thought it impossible that so few sum-
mers culd effect the revolution in the
person and manners of Anna, the fruits
of which I'now witnessed.
It was just at twilight, in August, when
I visited her father's house, after a long;
absence. I inquired for her brother, who
was my friend ; and, being shown into
the parlor, was recognized and welcomed
home by Anna. At first, unconscious
that the being before me. could be her
whose girlish lip I had so often pressed
in innocent hilarity-I was formal and
distantly polite; but the moment she was
fully recognized, I again touched, her
forehead with my lips, and pressed her
light hand with the true warmth of friend-
ship. The evening gradually stole on,
and with the passage of the flying hours
several young-gentlemen dropped in, evi-
dently for the purpose of enjoying the
society of Anna. Volatile and witty,
she was polite and entertaining with all,
and gave an interest and zeal to her con-
versation beyond what might be expected

y from her years.' She freely discussed
- the merits of all the new works of note,
n and expatiated with much discernment'
v on the general features of the times. Of
a me she inquired into the particulars of
my travels, and endeavored by every
method, to add to the stock of informa.
t tion she already possessed.
a   The night waned apace, and I returned
to my residence, reflecting on the change
which a few years sometimes effects. I
- also mused of the creature who had sud-
denly started into womanhood, bright and
beautiful. Visions of love and of hap-
piness floated through my imagination,
and I fell into elysium dreams. The
past came back to me-,-again I saw Anna
Delaney in her innocent childhood,
throwing her little arms around my neck,
and holding up her guileless lips that I
might kiss them. Then, the scene sud-
denly changed-a stately and majestic
creature stood before me; a slight tinge
of pride was blended with the crimson
of her lip, and a flash of fire mingled in
the glorious light of her eye. I fell down,
before her, and poured into her soul vows
of affection-she blushed, trembled, and
was silent ; but at last I felt her finger
cling with a closer grasp to mine-the
blood -shot like lightning through my
veins-my heart was flooded with rap-
ture, as she clung to my embrace. Again
the scene changed-we were before the
altar--she arrayed in all the splendor of
her bridal garments, and I wrapped in
elysian smiles of happiness. Her father
and mother, and her brother, my friend,
were all-.there. The hoary headed priest
came in his sacerdotal array, and stood

before the altar. Anna leaned, in her
girlish weakness, upon my arm. I could
perceive that she trembled, and a thrill
of joy, blended with a strange tremor,
passed over my own heart. The priest
took the holy book in his hands; friends
and relatives stood around us. I placed
the hand of Anna in mine. A peal $f
thunder shook the church to its founda-
tion-and I awoke.
A summer sun shone warmly into my
chamber. In vain I strove to shake off'
the delusion of my dream. ,The look
of my trembling bride still haunted my,
imagination, and the peal of thunder still
rung strangely in my ears. For many,
months I was the nightly visiter of Anna
Delancy. The impression which her
wit and beauty made upon my under-
standing, strengthened with every visit,
but knowing that I must again return to
Europe for a- fsw months, I postponed
the avowal of my passion until the even-
ing previous to my departure. Fleetly
the time passed in that interval. Hap-
pily I may say, for although tortured by
doubts and fears, there were some gleams
of unsophisticated kindness in the man-
ners of Ana, and I frequently persuaded
myself that I was beloved. . But the
time of my embarkation speedily arrived;
and the night previous found me at the
feet of her I loved. I told my tale with
all the pathos possible. When I had!
finished, she questioned me concerning
my anticipated absence ! I told her that
the ensuing night would find myself on
the ocean. She hesitated long, and'with
apparent seriousness-told me as yet her
heart was wholly her own-promised, if
my absence did not extend beyond six
months, she would still retain the right
of appropriating of its affections. One
hallowed kiss was imprinted uuon her
lips, and we parted.

The term of ab ence was extended to
two years. Duri g all that period the
image of Anna Del ncy held the freshest
and warmest place 'n my heart. I un-
derwent trials and     'ps-toil and
strife-but still she held the choicest
shrine in my memory--was the dearest
and fondest theme of my dreams. Con-
stantly I wrote to her; but neither antici-
pated nor received an answer-my hopes
were still alive, though delayed--and I
tho ght oft and long of the period when
I s ould again return and find her all that
my fondest dreams portrayed.
At length I returned. Again I knock-
ed at the door of her father's dwelling,
an was admitted to the same parlor as
be pre. The furniture was- the same,
and seemed placed in the precise situa-
tio i as when I was last there. A thou-
sand delightful and familiar images croyd-
ed into my mind. Anna Delancy was
also there-but oh God ! how changed.
She rose with a faint smile, and my
name trembled from her lips. I would
have clasped her to my heart, but shud-
dered at the change as I gazed upon her
features.
Her history during my absence is brief.
She loved and was beloved in return, by
one who possessed every quality, both of
mind and person, for winning the affec-
tions of a young and artless female. He
enjoyed a highly respectable station in
society, was accepted by Anna's parents,
and soon accepted by herself. The day
was fixed for the wedding, when she was
suddenly attacked by that most terrible
disease, the small pox.# The sequel may
readily be anticipated. Her beauty was
totally destroyed-her lover forsook her,
and she was now pining away of a broken
heart. Oh God, forgive the change that
will pass over human affections.

i .

THE FADED GIRL.

..i, .  .._    r                      Y  .3rr.AS ti.sG S k-r^ 7"     till.riiiis yy , t  . x , , ..,  wfF _' lrTe        ., y ,
A                         .a ..    .s.n

,
-                            t         ;;
.,.
.r 4       (..w.  .. tla..-«  }     i                               , ,   .        -                    I  " w, +i. R   _        y.          ,    r.  r     r -",!* rr  r 4   rt 4"°.°i  v!A.?F+ .i.  d  e  7!
;y, ,,':,Tm    ',"; Fpl ii *maui, ' ,atn q, i' ,  ' . ,,  +, ;            -          Qn,           -    _..-..                                   ,'       A        ,.                                                                                 '            A    '
y      vii     }      fit          IMexyy y ,     ,                         '   r  bf+r ,              ;6=+,    ti.   t ,.e. t.,, y^I N 7  - .           F . ,     .    .wM}              qy   u}+r'} c  ' ,  '                                                 1        tit              ^ ,
tr                     ..",a                                  °k  i  ,r. .  :t  k     f I'  '   4i w L17d       f':       +M  ",      +,      '¢ P,              .          4v C:E17                                     1   .fF' 1,'          M            fl     ' r 'lM?   : A7t  ":    ,}'1.--.:i;  +

15

c
w .
i
s
Y"
r
1 3
'
:   'S
* sy
"sf
'}  .
t.
'I
'                        ' E
.1
vS
"'  t
_      r
d
,
-                 x,
i
:a
,4
rr
i
.j
.;
" t
_,
,',
.
A

,.e

r         .          _       I    v'          .1a .rw"+ .. -y "-... ,,,,  _  ,                                      .ry+aagy      '1      r  .                             "        ay'     ,..                        ,           "     J          /
' Y                                                                                                                                                                           -       Lnk.,,
..      .               -     .,   ,     '.   aY       r       'a, _.. ,   . -.  , . .,... W'.e.+few:x  _ ,u,...,,    r         +   ..     ._ ..a,    v ..   ar                     i     .     -    Y'                a               }Ar.Wa vva            7 '152tr',A 1YNdgq    %drp  ' K
a" .s                                 -i.                      .ua 1. xE"~-I.,f....,a+n iv',.+++.i ' s . i',1  , .ar"4wVA r+'i:lAx Krdi'a'       }w'h' k      j               'agE'V'
.._                                                                                                                                                          -                                             t


The Last of the Line.                         17

THE LAST OF THE LINE

BY MRS. S. C. HALL.
IT was on ea tranquil evening, inthe might have almost thought her destined
lady of no ordinary a   ane sthat a "To come like truth, and disappear like dreams."
ly of o rdnay appearance sat at an
open casement of many-coloured glass, Though she was young, there was much
and overlooked a wild, but singularly of the dignity of silent sorrow in her as-
beautiful, count.ry. From the window a pect; and it was difficult to converse
flight of steep stone steps led to a nar- with her  without feeling her influence
row terrace, that, in former times, had not to overpower, but to soften. Her
been carefully guarded by high parapets form was slight, but rounded tosthe most
of rudely-carved granite ; but they had perfect symmetry, and an extraordinary
len tdeeay, and lay m mouldering quantity of hair, black as the raven's
heaps on the shrubby bank, which ran wing, was braided, somewhat after the
almost perpendicularly to a rapid stream fashion of other lands, over a high and
that danced like a sunny spirit through well-formed brow; although such was
the green meadows, dotted and animated the style of the times, she wore ono head-
with sheep and their sportive lambs. In dress, except what nature-had bestowed;
the distance, rude and rugged mountains a golden rosary, and cross of the same
towered innatiare dignity, "high in air," metal, gemmed with many precious jew-
their grim an sterile appearance form- els, hung over a harp-stand of antique
ing an extraordinary, but not unpleasing, workmanship;, a few of the strings of
contrast to the pure and happylooking the harp were broken, and a pile of rich-.
valley at their base, where, however, a ly-bound music gave no token of being
few dingy peasant-cottages lay thinly often disturbed.  Silken Ottomans, gild-
scattered, injuring rather than enlivening ed vases, fresh-gathered flowers, and a
a scene that nature had done much to long embroidered sofa, filled up, almost
adorn, and man nothing . to preserve. to crowding, the small apartment. In a
H-alf way up the nearest mountain, a lit- little recess, opposite the- window, a
tle chapel, dedicated to "our Lady of child's couch was fitted with much taste
Grace," hung, like a whited wren's nest, and care ; the hangings were of blue
on what seemed a point of rock ; but, damask, curiously inwrought with silver,
not even its rustic cross was visible from such as the nuns in France and Flanders
the antique casement. Often and anx- delight to emboss; there was also a loose
iously did the lady watch the distant fig- coverlet of the same material, and a tas-
ures who trod the hill-side towards the seled oblong cushion at either end. I-
holy place, to perform some act of pen- have said that the lady was seated at the
ance or devotion,                    casement; sometimes she pressed her
It was impossible to look on that in- small white fingers to her browand
teresting woman without affection ; one then passed them over its rounded sur-

face, as if to dispel, by that simple move-
ment, thoughts, "the unbidden guests of
anxious hours ;"-but still it was only
for a moment her gaze was turned from
her best -treasure,- her only child ; her
eye followed it as, in its nurse's arms, it
enjoyed the -evening breeze that played
amid its light and clustering hair; the
baby had a blue eye and a fair skin;
and, if it sometimes, in the infantine se-
riousness that passed as airy shadows
over a smiling landscape, resembled its
mother, now, as it laughed and shouted,
in broken accents, " Mamma!'mamma !"
she thought how like its father it spoke
and looked.   Clavis Abbey-as the
strange mixture of ancient and modern
buildings, inhabited by the household of
Sir John Clavis, was called-was wisely
situated. The monks of old always
chose happily for their monasteries ; the
sites of their ruined aisles tell of the
good taste, as well as good sense, of
their reverend projectors. Hill, wood,
and cdater, were ever, in their neighbor-
hood, and the red deer and salmon were'
always near to contribute to their repast.
But the fair possessions had, more
than a century before our tale com-
mences, passed from the hands of holy
Mother Church. The marvellous tale
of its exchange of masters is still often
repeated, and always credited ; it is said
and believed, that the stream, which runs
through the valley I have described, is
every midsummer-night of a deep-red
hue, in mysterious- commemoration of
the massacre of the priests of that abbey,
which took place as late as the Eliza-
bethian reign. Certain it is that the pro-
jector of such indiscriminate slaughter,
never reaped the rich harvest he antici-
pated; for, unable from severe illness to
visit the court of the maiden queen, lie'
despatched his son's tutor on the mis-I
sion, wtlhcommunication of satheand -
vie  he ha    redee the latde ad a
petiion for a grant othladhea'
rescued from popery. The tutor, how-
ever, made himself so agreeable to the
royal lady that she either was, or affect-
ed to be, severely angered by the unne-
cessary effusion of blood ; and, so far
from approving, testified her displeasure,

and bestowed the fair lands of the mur-
dered monks upon Oliver Clavis, the
false, but handsome, accessary of the
priest-slayer. But no family could take
possession of the consecrated'ground in
Ireland witho t falling under the ban of
both   Jure  nd people; and, notwith-
standing the bland and liberal conduct of
the new owner of the estate, then called
Clavis Abbey, Oliver lived and. died as
unpopular as could well be imagined.
Tradition says that none of the heirs
male of the family ever departed peace-
ably in their beds, and much learned and
unlearned lore is still extant upon the
subject.
Somewhat about the year 1782, Sir
John Clavis entered upon his title and
property, in consequence of the sudden
demise of his father, Sir Henry, who was
drowned on a moonshiny night, when the
air and the sea were calm, and he was re-
turning from an excursion to one of those
fairy islands that at once' beautify and
render dangerous the Irish coast. The
people who accompanied him, on that
last day of his existence, say that he had
been in unusual health and spirits during
the morning, and had fished, and sung,
and drank as usual-that as the night ad-
vanced he became reserved and gloomy,
and, as they neared the coast, insisted on
taking the helm-that, suddenly yielding
the guidance of his little vessel, he sprang
overboard-that immediately thy- crew
crowded to save him, but a black cloud
descended on the waters, and hid his form
from their eyes, and it was not until the
boat had driven an entire mile (as well as
they could calculate) from the spot, they
were enabled to behold the sea and the
sky. Some laughed, some surmised, but
many credited the tale, for superstition
had hardly, at that period, resigned any
of her strong holds; and the peasantry,
acted unde the influence of a spirit-guide,
that had lured-him to sudden death, con-
formably with the old prophecy-
" The party shall fail by Clavis ledter i
And none of te name shl die in thi -e.
Sir John had just completed his col-
lege course when he was called upon to
support the honors of his house and

"i,
a
:    .t
; ,
r
4 '            ryNh  _         .                                  J                                                "N              -.                             1.                                           +         "                       r      .....       ] ,. '          S.J 1
lw w  .V" isf l   l'i                      '          W{'. .ns   i a     __                                              ""       t                '            .              '  ..u     '                       ""_iTn' n'k ii    i     5,   _      F      sI  'Y               i'f{'1a
b  ..                         .v tnw ; .8b! $-l, l      , t ,.    ,,4, ,. }   .    ., y    °,^ qrn '.       ,  p  , , :'              k  3          '  gT    , si,    e  r " ,d v     e*." +...                       "           f   ~'" '  ; P?'':"  _         .'t,
..
'H                                                                              ~ a  .
4 '  ,                                                              \
-
..                                                      4          a' ,.  a     a,                    e                        ,
. +,_                                                                                            ,r
, ,   , ,..,..._  . .                                                                                                                                                                                                        ,..  ,,.  ,     _.    ._..      w .,_.,           .,  ,              ,  .        ,

4I

286

(

'fi  r                     AdvAwriAd       a r kw++sa , .                                                         .,                                                       ,            '          .k' A%7 M3        . C',e    '

r

1     !  , "r          Nv        w. c  .u .   _            :.  , ..          aar +"avw.....       - P   .'^" _            +     '                                 " " ."+ Mi..'. ,               .-.a            .. _      ..
vim., ,. r  -   .,. .. ,-- r  .w ' ..". ..-,,,.w n«c~  .s..rr   .m...   w.vwrba+owtl sra.ru.,r.,,,.      -.....  .w. ., ...                           .t. .,a    :w t.aV. 9r's4! F "y   +YgFaae+i"


18                       The Last of the Line.
name. At ,Trinity he was considered exertions chose the least--c
more as an amiable gentlemanly young affairs, for twelve calendar m
man, than an esprit fort, or one likely to fnagement of Denny Dacey
lead in public life. At' that period the s  who had acted, satis
college lads were a very different set of steward, since the second
youths from what they are at present. the old and respected man
The, rude but generous hospitality, the sixty years filled the situati
thoughtless daring, the angry politics, the the Abbey, attended by on
feudal feeling, that characterized the gen- vants and one travelling -carr
try of that time, was not likely to send was a matter of surprise an
forth subjects submissive to college rule; tion to many, more particu
and the citizens of Dublin were too often Henry and his neighbour,
insulted and aggrieved by the insolent ar- cliff,,a Cromelian settler, h
istocratic airs of unfledged boys, ripe for that their children should be t
mischief, who, half in earnest, half in jest, of sufficient age. Miss D(
sported with their comforts, and often handsome and an heiress,;
with their lives. Party feeling, also, ran said, in no degree averse to
(as unhappily there it always does) to a they had been companions in
readful height; and the young baronet, but the lady, it would appear
whose father invariably, drank "The unromantic a disposition toI
Glorious Memory," and " Protestant young baronet's indifference
Ascendancy," every day after dinner, carriage, rolled past the aver
was frequently called upon to defend or to her dwelling, he merely
support his party, although he invariably ward and cast a fleeting glan
declared that as yet he was of none-- the house. Where he met, a
that he must wait to make up his mind, exact circumstances he owed
&amp;c. &amp;c. It must be confessed that this sion of so lovely a wife as
extraordinary irresolution, at such a pe- have endeavoured to describe
riod, was more the effect of constitutional mystery ;,his business-letters
apathy than of reflection; he had a good no.intelligence of his marriagE
deal of the consciousness of birth and it until the arrival of gay furn
wealth about him, but he disliked either a fashionable Dublin uphols
mental or bodily exertion. As an only the i4ea of such an event o
child he had suffered nothing like contra- the inhabitants of Clavis.
diction; and had he horsewhipped and   When the baronet returne
abused his' servants (when at the age of nounced as his Lady her who
twelve he sported two of his own racers on his arm; when the domesti
at the Curragh of Kildare), instead of her with that warm-hearted
speaking to them as fellow-creatures in a tionate respect, for which Iris
mild and kindly voice, it would have eli- are so justly celebrated, and
cited no rebuke from his father, who se- rumour went abroad that Sir
cretly regretted that the youth was neither vis had married a Spanish lad3
likely to become a five-bottle mnan, a olic, and "one who had little
staunch Orangeman,.nor a Member of glish than a Kerry man," grea
Parliament--the only three- things -he consternation, and many and v
considered worth living fol-. conjectures. "What will beco
The young baronet never could have 'Protestant Ascendancy,' and
made up his mind to visit the continent- rious and Immortal Memory,'
an exploit he had long talked of--but .-popish mistress is come to
that an anticipated general election fright- said one party. "Some chance
ened him away, as he would certainly, and grace turning to the ould A
if at home, have been expected to offer that the right sort's in it," ohs
himself as a candidate, and make speech- other. Not a few affirmed,
es. He hated trouble, and' of the two .lady had absconded from a

287
committed his
onths, to the
y, his nurse's
factorily,'as
childhood' of
who hid for
on; and left
ly two ser-
iage. This
d conversa-
larly as Sir
Mr. Dorn-
ad, arranged
united when
orncliff was
and, it was
the union;
childhood,
, was of too
remove the
As his
nue that led
leaned for-
ce towards
and to what
the posses-
the lady I
e, is still a'
s conveyed
e,; nor was
iture, from
terer, that
occurred to
d, and an-
leaned up-
cs received
'and affec-
h servants
when the
John Cla-
y, a Cath
more En.
ot was the
arious the
mie of the
the. 'Glob.
flow that
Clavis ?"
e of luck
bbey now
erved the
that the
convent;

f
4
Y'
f

band, after much contention, gave up the nurse paced slowly beneathlher turret-
point, she ordered a green velvet dress window, the baronet was sitting tete-a-
for the occasion, embroidered with gol- tete with no other than Denny Dacey,
den shamrogues; she did this with a who, -from  being what in England is
view to gratify him, never imagining termed bailiff to the estate, had risen to
that the colour which emblems the beau- the rank of agent, under the title, as his
ty and fertility of Ireland could be ob- correspondents set forth, of "Dionysius
noxious to any body of Irishmen. 'What Dacey, Esq." &amp;c. &amp;c. How this per-

f     5--

288                      The Last of the Line.                       19
others asserted that she was picked off, then was her astonishment when he,
with a few other survivors, from a wreck- whom she had been so anxious to please,
ed vessel in the Mediterranean ; those expressed a most angry opinion of her
who had not seen her, whispered she costume-which occasioned a flood of
was no better than she should be ; but tears from one party, and from the other
Miss Dornliff--who, at first perhaps to an over hastily expressed desire that, as
show she was heart-whole, and after- she could never understand the customs
wards from real regard, was often Lady of the country, she would give up trying
Clavis's guest-generously declared that to do so. Matrimonial disputes are
she was the most charming woman she dreadfully uninteresting in the recital,--
had ever met, that she was highly accom- not entertaining as are lovers' quarrels,
polished, and, although a Catholic and a simply because there is no danger of a
Spaniard, any thing but a bigot.   , heart-breaking separation arising from
Hr want of knowledge of the lan- them; it is only the two engaged in
guage, when she arrived, prevented her those unhappy differences that can un-
joining in conversation either with those derstand their bitterness, the world has
who visited her, or those at whose houses for them but little sympathy. Enough,
she was received. Perfectly uncon- then, be it, that the innocent green vel-
scious of the rules and etiquette of so- vet was the commencement of much real
ciety in our colder regions, she was sure disagreement: the lady insisting that she
to commit some grievous fault in the ar- had the dress made as a compliment to
rangement of her guests, which invaria- his party; the gentleman protesting that
bly threw her husband into an ill tem- it could not be so, as green was always
per, that, after the honey-moon was over, opposed to orange. This he repeated
he seldom thought it necessary to con- over and over again, without troubling
ceal. Sir John had shaken off a good himself to inquire whether his wife un-
deal of his ennui by journeying; and derstood him or not. Many an unpleas-
when he came home he no longer stood antness grew out of this trifle, that con-
on neutral ground, but suffered the ex- tinued silently, likes the single drop of
citement of politics to take place of that rain, to wear the rock of domestic hap-
which is the accompaniment of travel- piness. Sir John persevered i drink-
ling. He had now discovered that for ing deeply of the bitter cup of politics,
the honour of the house it was necessary that universal destroyer of society and
he should adopt his father's side of the kindly feeling. He soon discovered, or
question; and, accordingly, the gardener imagined he had discovered, how per-
was ordered to fill the flower-beds with fectly a continental education units the.
orange lilies, and the hangings of the most amiable woman in the world -for
spare rooms were garnished with orange the society and habits of our islands; and
bindings. Unfortunately, the- members the very efforts Lady Clavis made to ap-
of an Orange Lodge were invited to pear cheerful, were silent reproaches to
dine at the Abbey, and Lady Clavis pos- him for not endeavouring to make her
itively refused to wear their colour, in so; they had, however, still one feeling
any way, because she-considered it as in common-affection for their child.
-the symbol of persecution to the Catho- While the mistress of Clavis Abbey
lic religion, of which she was a devout was engaged in watching every move-
and faithful member. When her hus- ment of her beloved daughter, as the

k ;
J

1
'  ,  !,  . 6    u,,, w   "  '                            f                                                      ,     e         l             i          rt   Y         ' !'"        ", '                  YS'r"9-""1a .'4  . 45,i. ';' x   4 . " . 'WN'"'. '  W' PkM '. a
re. f:.4-  ,cLlw  ,.q  .              46, !        !                                                   r1r        r        .1                                       S f.                                                 :                                  r
i ,r q-'r ;.4 ++at  rT+ rA+%   d .fX.,, - hc .                                           t7  ,ter+-   "" rG ee    gwyr  .
_...-«q,   r                                     "?"a       wx        +v     'Ag                                                   61
AiYd  4%dt.GAk'+i ICtA'a.'ti(iCq°pp", - {f 1%iN"T'  w+Y'4i1PwKa'  4      iw q   AIS     +M'  ar  pf4                    5lFEi'!M.' u19 {RYtii'1l A fKI°' ilqbV J'15' Sx 7 4 .++i" Wt+V.4 '   +{11    ;' .'' R" d'IIM   ! .1 aNNNIW                   V"?    . F "O A'E'Pti:?"4V:Rn..ov' '1 .:, 1y", + :h"rrr 1 .... L.Y._  .Y "s  .:.1


20                       The Last of the Line.

289

290

The uast of the Lize.

son ever acquired the influence he , -p
sessed over his patron, must now remain
a mystery: itis to be supposed that he
insinuated himself into his good graces,
as a weasel does into a rabbit-burrow,
by various twists and windings, of which
nobler animals are incapable. It was no
secret in the county that, although Sir
John's apathy no longer existed, in a po-
litical point of view, he had not acquired
those active habits that are so necessary
where a gentleman's affairs are embar-
rassed, and . whet nothing but good,
sense, and good economy, can retrieve
them. During the young baronet's resi-
dence abroad, Dacey had exceedingly
prospered ; and, though one or two
shrewd landholders suspected he used
means, not consistent' with his employ-
er's interest, to obtain both influence and
wealth, there was so much plausibility
about the man, that the most watchful
could bring nothing home to him ; his
bearing was blunt and open; he affected
honesty, but his look belied the. utter-
ance of his tongue, for his eye lacked
the expression of truth, and, instead of
looking forth straightly from beneath its
pent-house lid, was everlastingly twist-
ing into corners--with cat-like quick-
ness, watching a fitting opportunity,
when those with whom he conversed
were busied in other matters, to scan
and observe their countenance. It has
been to me an entertaining, though often
an unpleasing study, to attend to the va-
ried expressions conveyed by the mere
action of the eye, almost without refer-
ence to the other features ; and I would
avoid, as I would a poisoned adder, the
person whose eye quivers or looks down.
The two friends (as such is the usual
term given to those who eat meat at the
same board,) were seated at either end
of a somewhat long table, on which were
piled papers of various dates and dimen-
sions; a huge bowl of punch had been
nearly emptied of its contents, and the
baronet did not appear particularly fit for
business-Irish gentlemen seldom are-
jpt all events, after dinner: he leaned
listlessly on the table, as if in reverie-;
and it was only Dacey's voice that
aroused him from his reflections.

" But, my dear Sir John," he com-
menced with his peculiar drawl, while
his eye was fixed on the punch-ladle;
"My dear Sir John, 'pon my sowl it
weighs upon my conscience, so itdoes,
to be managing here, and you to the fore,
with such a fine head-and so much clev-
erness (a sly glance to-see how the flat- '
tery took), 'tis a shame you don't turn
to it yourself, for by'n-by you'll, may-
be, find things worse nor you think 'em,
as I have told you before, God knows--"
"And will my looking over ,these
cursed papers make things better? It'
is, positively, enough to set me mad,
just at a time too when our grand coun-
ty meeting is coming on, and the general
election, and so much exertion expected
from me; and the house will be full of
English company from the castle, and
Lady C. has not an idea how English
people should be entertained."
"But sure Miss Dorncliff is coming to
stop with my lady while they stay."
" Very true, she is a capital, good-na-
tured girl, 'faith, and much better-look-
ing than she was eight years ago, when
I left Ireland.  Oh, dear ! I 'wonder
young men of fortune marry, Dacey !
"Sir John, it is very necessary."
"Well, well, I suppose it is, but say
no more about it ; there are enough of
disagreeable subjects on the table al-
ready." 'The baronet.-looked upon the
pile of papers, and, the agent glanced
keenly up, but his eye was quickly
withdrawn.
"My Lady was in a convent, I be-
lieve, Sir John ?"
"Ay; it was a fine exploit to get her
out of it. Well, poor thing, she trusted
nobly to my honour, and was not de-
ceived."
"Of course you were married by a
priest?"  (This was said cautiously.)
S" To be sure we were, and by a jovial
fellow too: he went with me to the
convent-wall, and performed the ceremo-
ny at the foot of a beautiful old cross, by
the way-side, as the' moon was sailing -
over our heads, and the orange-trees -
were showering perfume around us,.
Poor Madelina!1 he continued, almost
involuntarily, "I found the withered ora

ange-blossoms, which that night I bound'
upon her maiden brow, encased in a cas-
ket, with the hair of our child, only this
morning."
"You had the ceremony repeated on
your arrival in England ?" inquired Da-
cey.
Sir John Clavis fixed- his eyes upon
the reptile, and, in a sterner tone of
voice than was his wont, in his turn be-
came the querist.
"Why do you ask ?"
" For no reason, only that if you had
a son it would be well to see that the
marriage was firm and legal."
" Thank you," replied the b-ironet
drily, " there is not much chance of that
being the case ; and if there was-"
A long pause followed the last sen-
tence, which neither seemed inclined to
disturb. Dacey gathered the papers to-
wards him, and pulling his spectacles
from his forehead to his nose, occupied
himself in sorting and placing them in
separate piles ; every five or ten minutes
a no gentle sigh escaped from his Ii
the last of which was so audible tha Sir
John exclaimed, " What the devil, man
alive, do you growl for iii that manner ?--
one would think that you expected the
ghost of your uncle, the priest, to start
forth from the papers and upbraid you
with your apostacv !"
"Sorra a ghostat all then, Sir John,
among the. papers ; only the reality of
botherin' debts, custodiums, thrown-up
leases on account of the rack-rent, and
the Lord knows what !"
"And whose fault is it ?" replied the
gentleman angrily ; "did I not leave it
all to your management ? The proper-
ty was a good property, and why should
it not continue so? I'm sure I can't
think how the money goes ; to do Lady
C. justice, she spends nothing."
" There's the hounds, the hunters, and
five grooms, of one sort or other, Sir
John ; to say nothing of town-houses,
and carriages, and--."
" My father always had the same es-
tablishment," interrupted Sir John, "and
never kept an agent to overlook matters
e"hMore's the pity !" ejaculated the
2

manager-(the exclamation might have
been taken in two ways).
"There's no manner of use in my
keeping you, if I am to be pestered with
those eternal accounts--accounts-ac-
counts--morning, noon, and night. The
simple fact is," continued Sir John, ri-
sing from his seat,' "the simple fact is,
money I want, and money I must have.
After flying to the Continent to avoid an
election, I find that now, at this particu-
lar crisis, I can not help running into
the ;very, strait I endeavoured tosteer
clear of. My friends say it is,'neces-
sary, and would even subscribe (if I per-
mitted) to return me free of, expense;
that I will never do--so money, Dacey,
money I must have, that's certain."
"It's easy to say money," retorted the
agent; "will you sell,'Sir John ?"
" What ?" interrogated the baronet.
" There's the Corner estate, that long
strip, close by -Ballyraggan; your cousin
C     y of the hill has long had an eye
it, and would lay down something
a£ ome.
"Youpoor pitiful scoundrel'!" ex-
claimed Sir John, "do you think it's
come to that, for me to sell land, like a
huckster !-and to Corney too, a fellow
that gathers inches off every estate, as a
magpie picks fi'pinnies !-a fellow who,
basely born and basely bred, has, never-
theless, managed to accumulate wealth,
like a pawnbroker, on the miseries of
others; I know he has had an eye on
that property these eight years, but look
-sooner than he should have it, I'll beg
my bread-I'll sell the estate to a stran-
ger to prevent the possibility of him or
his ever possessing an acre of the land."
" Please y'erself, sir," replied the
manager, sweeping some of the. papers
into a wide-mouthed canvas sack, which
he drew from under his chair. "Here's
Mr. Damask's, the upholsterer's, letter-
swears, if he's not paid, he'll clap on an
execution like iightning ; it's as good as
2,5001. now, with costs."
" Fire and fury !" exclaimed the bar-
onet, who, his apathy once shaken off,
became terrible in his violence, "do you
'Then I11 sy nothing of Mr. Barry

"                                                      I
1      y
J
l

21

f

_..__.
...__

v
+r
r.rr.r.r+ r           e      .                                                          o

'114401  V'4.        .,  f                                                                                                                              . i                                 ..yam,-.41  .s                                                                                                  ,
1\  ,j: . '    ..     . _  /                 ..  era .     ..    .y.    _ r            -                        -                                                                               " .      . ,i.w+. '"        . . .                       '                       .                 - ..  j i
. -                                                                                                                                   .. - sor, -.., .s «, o- -a---- .. ,...' ..r,..:,w: .a^1f'ia i-. +1     .:..  Y. - d._,..xi sc ia +i  °.9icM i Ktd  d'4e.,.i'7+MnfN+rlW ±ysrt                ''+91elvA  .'A l [[.zA b W['aw'r',' t+"nlL;ot. ."Y

i

.r.                                                                                                                          ..k. t { '                                      +F  P                           v                         +xw .h..  H.y1  '+    . 51 ,'3""'CAT'b     { '' 1"   4 fr         t  e
9'7imwwmp     ,[b, t.n '.Tro v    . y .        ,         Y+M r            +. ,  ~        ,x y                 '                 ,    ,"         de'   '  ,e              ..             y
"i        -                               fi'r A~   r        e '        w ,         .",      t                 i; yr.r   i+,k,,. ,. ,NpW nk ...            y(«'           '    n 'ky ' -'Ur  +f
Sw'p9 .  -+
i6+ww.A '4  Y '+ .=' 'Cyi kAV'Ig, ,@ 1 ' bJ._°RYt  I'fCq  7. r9dlR' P'iR 'r *"35  41 11rr. Y19w'i  VS'+1   '+ I4a3!'r4.'+ 'k91}+' " N#3,M ay'Y' M4C'Y3?'iP:Ft r rr.e:" fF'   .ywvrt4d .w"   +1C rbro 'c'ivA7",.N i2r40:wFC°t.v  'hfwl"+w"tiYS'elFk(. Sk?"Jh 5N.M J"« ,i lh. y9t~   .r. a.a: +e r.. -...a   _. _.  :r,   r..214,,:"."+,:.Y'r w ..rl"".

,}
.
_
'
, ;,
;
f }


di

.-'?
;,
,
,
--
,,
_
 -

22               ,     The Last of the Line.

291

292

The Last of the Line.

Mahon's-little letter," continued the man
of business quietly, "who writes, that
as you've decided on standing, in op-
position to him, he'll trouble you for the
money he lent you as good as four years
ago, to. complete some purchase or
another ; it ends very civilly, though, by
saying that it's only the knowledge that]
a gentleman like you will be a formida-
ble adversary,. which' obliges him to
strain every nerve to make his own step
firm."
" A blight upon him and his civility !"
"Then here is-"    Mr. Dacey was
prevented from finishing his sentence by
Sir John's striking the table so violently;
with his clenched hand, that the very
punch-bowl trembled, and the agent eja-
culated, "Lord save us!"
"Look here !" said the baronet, "you
have, Iknow-means, somehow or other,,
of raising money when you like; find me1
the sum of ten thousand pounds by this
day week, and that very estate, so covet-
ed by my cousin Corney, shall be furs
for ever, at a pepper-corn rent, pr4 d
the matter be kept secret; mind, pro-
vided it be kept secret, and you bind
yourself never to let a twig of it into
Corney's possession." -
"It's easy to keep a thing a secret that
never happens," observed Dacey, rolling
the cord of the bag between his finger-
and thumb; "is it me get money when
I like ?--and I obliged to go at credit for,
these brogues on my feet,"-and he put
forth a topped boot, well-polished and
shining, as he spoke.
i'The Corner estate, as it is called,"
repeated Sir John.
"At. a, pepper-corn rent," pondered
Dacey; "if a body could any way make
up the money, I'd do a dale to oblige
you, sir;. and though I've neither cross
nor coin.to bless myself with, to be sure,
I know them that has, who, may-be, for
a valuable consideration, might--thoug~h
I don't know--the little estate-eh !- ...
ten thousand !--it's badly worth that,$irj
John, unless, indeed, you'd throw ,the'
fourteen acres of pasture-by the loch Into
it."
" Well!" exclaimed the indolent ba-
ronet, though perfectly conscious that the

land was worth treble the sum; "we'll
talk about that, provided you ensure me
the money; and now gather your parch-
ments, and vanish ; I've had enough of
arithmetic to last me for some months-.
and Dacey!"
" Yes, Sir."
" .ifter the election, I will really look
into matters myself; but, at present,
when the good of my country is- at stake
-when we are threatened with invasion
from without and rebellion from within
--the man must be basely selfish who
thinks of self-Oh, Dacey ! did you see
the Madeira safely into the'cellar?"
"Yes, Sir John."
" Good night, Dacey !-there--good
night-you won't forget-ten thousand-
hard gold-none of your flimsy paper-
the Corner estate."  .0~
"And the pasture."
" There, good night," repeated the
baronet. As the wily agent bowed him-
self out of the apartment, Sir John Clavis
rose from his seat, and threw open the
window which was directly under the
turret that formed the boudoir of his
Spanish wife; indeed it was the sound
of her guitar that had drawn him to it;
and he recognized a favorite seguidilla,
to which he had written words; he re-
membered having taught her to repeat
them; and the full rich voice that had
given them so much beauty-if in that
twilight hour it sounded less melodious-
had never fallen upon his ear so full of
tenderness ; its simple burthen--
Sweet olive-groves of Spain,"
brought the remembrance of what Made-
lina was to ,him, in the days when he
playfully chid the mispronunciation of
his poetry; and as the prospect of re-
ceiving the ten thousand, and not being
plagued about money matters, had some-
what softened his temper (the idea that
he was diminishing his property had no
share whatever in his thoughts--posses-
sing, as he did, the peculiarly Irish quali-
fication of looking only on to-day), he
thought, I say, of his wife, with more
complacency than he had done since the
affair of the green velvet. He was pleased
when he heard Miss Dorncliff (of whose

arrival he wa unconscious) urge her to
repeat the ra nA She commenced, but
at a line which he well remembered-
,,,
"I know no b sing but thy smile,"
her voice faltered and the next moment
he heard her   ie  chiding away her
tears ; his  st impul e was to go to her
apartment, and inqui e their cause; but
then he ha d seen s, and vanity or cu-
riosity, or both,  pted him to remain;
and the broken dialogue which followed,
happily for the repose of his soul, roused,
.   in- his wife's cause, the best feelings of
.   his heart.' Many were the affectionate
expressions lavished by Miss Dornliff
on her friend, and many the entreaties
that she would cease to agitate herself
upon what she insisted was a surmise
without foundation.
"You would not say so," replied Ma-
delina, "if you had seen his attention, his
tenderness, on the Continent-or 'heard
his repeated promises that my religion
should be held sacred; the little silver
shrine, that my sainted mother so often
knelt to, I have been obliged to remove,
even from this chamber, which it is
mockery to call my own;, and though I
can not understand all he says--and
though his eye is bright, and his lip
smiles, sometimes, yet he never looks
upon me as he used; to me his counte-
nance is sadly changed."
" I'll tell you what, my dear," replied
her friend, taking advantage of a pause in
her complaint, " adopt the course I should
have done, if my good father's scheme
had, unfortunately for me, been carried
into effect. Assert your own dignity; if
he looks as cold as snow, do you look as
cold as ice-if he stamps, do you storm
--if he orders, do you counter-order-if
he says, 'I will,' do you say, 'you
sha'n't.' My life on it !-such conduct
'for one week would bring him sighing to
your feet. Here, you sit, with your
baby, which, if he had the common feel-
ings of a man, he would worship you for
presenting to him-"
" Stop, my dear Margaret," said Lady
Cla is ; " do him not injustice ; he loves
his hild as fondly as father ever loved a
el' ; he has not changed to it-"

" Yet," interrupted in her turn, the in-
dignant Margaret, "he has not changed
yet, but who can tell how soon he may?
The man who would change to you must
be base indeed."
" He is not base," replied the wife, in
a sweet low tone, which penetrated into
the inmost recesses of Sir John's heart,
"'not base, only weak; he is surrounded
by a parcel of flatterers, many of whom
hate. me because of my religion, and
others for reasons which I can not, de-
fine; but look, Margaret, were he to treat
me as a dog, were he to spurn me from
him, and trample me to dust, even that
dust would rise to heaven's own gate to
ask for blessings on his head."
"She is an angel, after all !" thought
Sir John.
" You are a fool, my dear!" both
thought, and exclaimed Miss Dorneliff;
" and I only wish I were big enough to
throw him over the terra of this old
musty place, and I would soon choose
out a husband worthy of your love."
4" Upon my word, I am much obliged
to you, Miss Minx !" murmured the ba-
ronet, as he cautiously, closed the win-
dow, resolving to turn over a new leaf,
and station himself, for the remainder of
the evening in his wife's dressing-room,
He could not avoid thinking, as he passed
through the winding corridors and up the
staircases, " a very pretty wife I should
have had, if it had been as my worthy
agent seems to think it might be even
now. The fellow means well, but he is
mistaken; I should not have been able to
call my life my own-the termagant!
Thank goodness, I escaped her ! I never
valued my blessing before!"
He met his child in the lobby, and
took the laughing cherub from the nurse's
to his own arms.. As he prepared to en-
ter, " You may go down, Mary," he said,
seeing the maid waiting to receive, the
child, "INill -take Miss Madeline in
myself."
How easily can a man make the wo-
man who truly loves himi happy ! It was
enough for Lady Clavis that her husband
was at her side-enough that' he smiled
upon her.-tenough that he called her 'ar-
ling:" although it' would have been= et-

'"   +  1'T°"      4n1  ' '.. , ,,sM ~t oar           ^I ?f'  ' nv "e   $,   ,  " yr;  ' ..  "{ , e:   r-  -  !
Nf~.   1~ w.,.                            ,    N  s, ^4,  - r .,   ., i  i{  ,,   , ;'Ct;1;/ :w7"'   ,

23

I

I

.. ..

a

h
tq
i

2 t
t  .
y   AMR
... . w   ?43-.s i yi'"'v",,, e '...  i" .Kk 1nfZ.; IE,     hW.. alj+"


24

ter for them both, had she possessed the
strength of mind to entitle her to the
name of "friend," the most sacred, yet
the most abused, of all endearing terms.
Miss Dorncliff exulted in her happiness,
though her more cool and deliberate tem-
perament led her to believe that Sir John's
"love-fit," as she termed it in her own
mind, would not be of long duration.
She little knew the service she had ren-
dered Lady Clavis by her somewhat in-
temperate advice; nor the dread the ba-
ronet had, lest any portion of that advice
should be followed by his gentle wife.
As Mar Conway, Madelina's nurse,
descended to the vestibule, she heard a
voice, whose sound was familiar to her
ear, repeat her name two or three times,
and in various tones; she lingered for a
moment, a8d then,' as if gladly remem-
bering that her infant charge was com-
mitted to its parent's care, turned into an
abrupt passage, leading from the great
hall to one of the archways, where dew
and damps mouldered from day to day
upon the massive walls.
" What are you afther wantin' now,
Mister Benjy ?" she inquired, as the out-
line of her lover's (for there is no use in
concealing the fact) figure became visible
to her laughing eyes.
"Nothing particular, that is to say;
very particular," replied the youth, who
was no other than Dacey's nephew;
" only I'm going a journey to-night, and
I thought I'd be all the betther for your
God speed, or may-be a bit of prayer to
the saints ye think so much of."
"A journey!-where to-?" inquired
Mary, with a palpitating heart.
" Why, thin, just to Dublin, Mary,
honey. And it's glad enough I'd be to
get out of this murderin' grand ould
place, only just for one single thing."'
" And might a body know what that
is?" again inquired the maiden.
" Honor bright, Mary, because I sha'nt
see y'er sweet smilin' face for many a
long day, may-be; for uncle says he has
a dale o' business to transact in Dublin,
and that he'll be -wanting me to look
afther it; indeed, I'm thinkin' that he
has a notion we' re keeping company,
and don't over like it; though, Mary,

293

darlin', its more nor he can do to put be-
tween us."
Mary covered her face with her hand,
and, though no sigh or sound escaped
her lips, tears bedewed her cheeks. She
was nothing more nor less than a frank-
hearted, good-natured girl, with .only
three, or perhaps four, definite ideas in
her pretty round head-the first of which
was decided love for her mistress, and
her mistress's child-a great portion of
affection for benjamin Dacey-and no
small regard for finery in all its branches
and bearings; she consequently had not
a multiplicity of objects to divide her at-
tention, which was therefore steadily de-
voted to the ,service of her three or four
several propensities. The idea of her
lover's being sent away, and to Dublin
too, overwhelmed her with grief, to which
she would have given more audible vent,
but that Benjamin had unwittingly ob-
served, his "uncle didn't over like his
keeping company   with, her,"  which
aroused the maiden's pride; she there-
fore said, "that indeed Mr. Dacey ought
to remimber when he once held two or
three acres of land under her father," and
that, " though she was at the Abbey, she
was far from being a rale sarvant; she
took care of Miss Maddy more from pure
love than aiay thing else. May-be, it
was Mister Benjy himself that wanted to
be off the -promise-if so, she was wil-
ling and ready," &amp;c. &amp;c. But, in fact,
these lover's quarrels are the same in all
cases; I could give a recipe by which
people ight quarrel, agreeably, ten
times a Week on an average-only, as
love would be the principal ingredient in
my prescription, I fear the misunder-
standings would be too soon understood
for. your genuine downright-in-earnest
quarrellers,-a set of choleric individuals,
which I sincerely testify, I hold in most
fervent abhorrence. I can not tarry with
those young people, during this parting
scene, but only recount that "Mary," as
she afterwards expressed it, "got a dale
out of Benjy, which no one should be the
wiser'for; only her heart was fairly
crushed--thinkin' what a misfortune it
was to a boy like him to have such an
uncle;" even this she only communicated

294

--                                                                   v

to her particular friend and companion,
Patty Grace.
When the expected company arrived
from Dublin,-from "the Castle," as it
has been familiarly termed for ages-it
was evident that Sir John had nerved his
mind to some great undertaking to which
he was secretly urged by Dennis Dacey.
Indeed, the particular party who had.
once been led by his father were anxious
that he should tread in the same steps,
and they again regretted that his union
with a Catholic was likely to cool his
ardor in "the good cause;" they how-
ever did their best to urge him forward
--and " the glorious and immortal me-
mory" was drank so often after dinner,
that those who sacrificed to the sentiment,
had neither glorious nor inglorious me-
mory left. The humble parish priest
never joined in these revels; and when
Dacey, in Lady Clavis's presence, hinted
at this circumstance, andiad, moreover,
the audacity to assert that his absence
was a tacit acknowledgment of disloy-
alty, the lady roused herself in -defence
of her ancient friend, and told the agent
that, if religion was a proof of loyalty, he
must be the worst of traitors,.for he was
a renegade from the faith of his fathers,
and had changed for the love of filthy
lucre. Dacey trembled and turned pale;
but as he quitted the apartment lie put-
tered a deep and bitter curse against the
lady of Clavis Abbey. Not only had,
" the little estate" been secretly trans-
ferred to Dacey, along with the fourteen
acres of pasture, and the ten thousand
pounds paid for present relief, but other
sums must, at this crisis, be advanced to
relieve the necessities of the proprietor,
and other lands sacrificed to feed the ra-
pacity of thi agent. Mr. Barry Mahon
resolved to stand as the people's cham-
pion, and already were the addresses of
the several'candidates duly prited mi the
county papers ; the Abbey. became~ a
scene of interminable bustle and confu-
sion'; as the day for the commencement
of the election approached, it would be
difficult to convey an idea of the strange1
persons and scenes that crowded on each
other. TIo Mary Conway's great de-
light, Benjamin unexpectedly returned;

and, from the mannerin which his uncle
received him, it might be supposed that
he was not particularly pleased at the
circumstance ; he, however, carved out
for him the task of managing (dare I say
bribing?) a few refractory freeholders at
some distance; but the young man did
not depart untilhe had whispered some
words of moment into his true love's ear.
The sarne evening, when Mary was un-
dressing the little Madeline, Lady Clavis
entered the room, happy to escape from
a tumult she could hardly understand.
" I'm so glad y'er honorable ladyship's
come in," said the girl; "I wanted so
much to know what you'd have packed
up to take into towrrto-morrow, my lady
--as,of course you mean to go with his
honor to see the election and all that ?"
"Indeed,Mary," replied Lady Clavis,
"I have no such intention; I shall be but
too glad to escape the bustle of it here--
and I should be only in the .way, Sir
John says."
" Och, my grief! Does his honor, the
master, say that? But, no matter, ma-
dam, dear, for the love o' God, as -ye
value y'er own honor, and the honor. of
this sweet baby, go !-go, for God's sake!
-or you'll be sorry for it,-mark my
words !"
Lady Clavis was astonished at the
girl's vehement manner and gestures, but
still she remained firm, to her purpose,
She was suffering acutely from mental
anxiety and bodily exertion; and as Sir
John had continued'to treat her with great
kindness, she was anxious tp show how
willingly she would yield to his wishes
-even where they were opposed to her
own. But Mary was not to be thus sa-
tisfied.  She "hushowed" her little
charge to sleep, and descended to the
lobby that led to her master's study.
She paused for a few moments at the en-
trance, and inclned her ear so as to catch
any sound that might pass along, having
ascertained that persons were speaking
within. I can not avoid lamenting that
she was led away, by what might be
called, " natural curiosity," to draw near
-very near; so near that her ear cover-
ed the key-hole-and listen.-systematia
cally listen-to whatever conversation

4                                                                                                                           - .f                                                                                ]~

rI'

The Last of the Line.

The Last of the Line.

L
yt
1
i
+
k;

v

I.

e r. ?; s1.r  t
:.ice  :._  .     t  -     .Y  4,.4.e d.si      .rte  .M   ai+." +n /:

r
44


26  Th Las of he Lne.        95      29                    TheLastof-te Lie.                      2

t.    air
r rf
F,
rs
" '
5 L GL    F
k{ t± t   1
ft
t 1
.        x2  4
S
I _
z
7
y'4      1
r/  r        1
J
L
e'         "

was going 4n. She might have remained
some fifteen minutes, in no very com-
fortable attitude, when she suddenly
started up; but had hardly receded three
steps from the door, when it was opened,
and the round vulgar face of Dacey ap-
peared, carefully prying into the dark-
ness. Mary saw she could not escape
unnoticed, so, with ready wit, she in-
quired, "Oh, Misther Dacey, have you
seen my lady's Finny?  I've been hunt-
in' all-the evenin' after the ugly baste,
and can get neither tale nor tidings of it?
--Finny!-Finny!--Finny!"
"4Can ye see in the dark, like the cats,
Miss Mary, with y'er fine red top knot ?"
said Dacey, earnestly.
"Troth, ye may ask that," she re-
plied, "for my candle went out."
" And where's the candlestick, Miss
Mary ?" persisted the keen querist.
"No wonder ye'd inquire, but sorra
one have we been able, to lay hands on
these threp weeks, for the shoals o'com-
pany, so I just used the same candle-
stick my father and your father, Misther
Dacey, was best acquainted with-my
fingers, why !---Finny !-Finny !--
Finny !"
She was receding, calling the dog.at'
the same time ; when Dacey, whose ire
wasroused, followed her nearly to the
end, and said, -'You'd better not turn
y'er tongue against my family, Miss Im-
pudence, for ye're mighty anxious to
get into it, I'm thinkin'."
" Not into your family, Mistber Da-
cey," retorted Mary,, proudly. " Anx-
ious, indeed ! I don't deny that Benjy
and I have been keepin' company, though
my true belief is he's no nevvy of yours.
Ye'd think little of adoptin' any man's
child or property either."
" Hah !" he exclaimed, seizing her
arm and pressirig it firmly, "is that the
news ye' re afther ?--ye'd better--"
but the girl prevented his finishing his.
threat by screaming " Murder !" so loud-
ly, thiat'Sir John Clavis rushed out, with
a candle in his hand, to inquire into the
disturbance.
Dacey looked extremely foolish, while
Mary lifted her apron to' her eyes, and
with well-feigned tears, declared, "It's I

a shame-and I'll tell my lady, so I will,
that when I was looking for little Finny,
that man corned out of your honour's
study to kiss me, y'er honour-a dacent
girl like me-I'll tell my lady, so I will.
Finny !-Finny !-Finny !"    And off
she marched triumphantly, leaving Da-
cey to explain his equivocal situation as
he best could.
The night had become dark and
stormy; and, when Mary put her head
from under -the archway, before men-
tioned, large drops of rain were drifted
on her, face. She hastily folded her
gray mantle round her, and, stepping
from paraet to parapet of the ancient
enclosure, gained a particular elevation
that overlooked the entire country. Here
she paused for a moment, and then
pushed into the brushwood that covered
the slope leading to the meadows. Ha-
ving reached the stream, that partook of
the agitation of the evening gale, she
seemed puzzled how to make her pas-
sage good ; but her perplexity was not
of long duration, although the stepping-
stones were perfectly covered by the
swollen waters. She seated herself on
the wet grass, took off her shoes and
stockings, and, folding her clothes round
her, prepared to cross the river. Having
achieved her purpose, after much buffet-
ing with both wind and water, she re-
adjusted her dress, and proceeded on her
way so intently, and with so much reso-
lution, that I doubt if she would have
stayed her course had she even met the
bogle that frightened the good Shepherd
of Ettrick---        ,
"Its face was black as Bryant coal,
Its nose was o' the whunstane;
Its mou'was like a borel hole-
That puffed out fire and brimstane."
Regardless of banshees, clurecauns, or
any of the fairy tribe, so admirably de-
picted by their historian Crofton (Croker,
Mary pressed earnestly forward till she
arrived opposite a small gate that opened
into an extensive park ; the lock, like
most Irish locks, was out of repair, so
that she had but to apply her finger un.-
derneath, and push the .bolt back. She
only paused to inhale a long breath, and
flew onward across the yielding grass,

startling birds and herded deer from
their early slumbers : this continued
fleetness soon brought-her opposite the
gate of a noble modern mansion, but she
preferred entering through a little post-
ern-door to ascending the stone steps.
" Where's her honour ?" she inquired
of an old serving-man, astonished at -her,
untimely visit.
"Lord, Ma - you've frightened the'
senses out o'  ."  '
"Why, thin ,'s myself is glaA to hear
it."     /
" Why so, M ry ?"
"Because it's the first I've ard of
y'er havin' any in,-but wh e's' the
lady ?"
" Umph," repl I the old erva , ev-
idently annoyed,  nd out !"  (, tu n-
ing on his heel, L was leaving the of-
fended damsel aloe , when she snatched
the candle, that ma tained a very equiv-
ocal equilibrium in js hand, and ran up
the back staircase.
"That one has the impudence of the
ould boy in her, and makes as free in
this house as if it was her own," he ob-
served.
She tapped gently at the door of a
'small apartment, and a clear-toned voice
responded, "come in."  In another mo-
ment, Mary was in Miss Dorncliff 's
presence. She advanced, making a
curtsey .at every second step, until she
stood opposite the' young lady, who re-
garded her with much surprise.
" Why, Mary, is your mistress ill-
or has any thing happened to little
Madeline ?"
" No, God be thanked !--nothin'. -to
say nothin'--yet," replied the girl, lay-
ing her hand on the back of a chair for
support, for she had traversed nearly five
Irish miles in less than an hour.
"Sit down, sit down, my good girl,"
said the lady, kindly ; " and, as soon as
you can, tell me what has agitated you
thus."
" Thank you, my lady-sure ye said
that just like herself that's the angel en-
tirely, if ever there was one, God knows !
-and God counsel her, and you, my
lady ; for she won't be said or led by
me, and more's the pity !"

5
t

2 ~i' ~

ktoiny~, .°"n  ,rrv  ,n  rw    .      - +             ,     3/

" You speak of your mistress, Mary,
I suppose," interrupted Miss Dorneliff,
"but do cone to the ioint at once, for I
am all anxiety."
"I can't make a long story , short,.
madam, particularly when my heart's all
in it-but, as fast as I can, I'll riddle it
all out, for sure my heart's, burstin' to
tell t."  The lady assumed the attitude
of a patient listener, and Mary, again
drawing a long breath, and pulling first
one and then another of her red, but
taper fingers, commenced the disclosure
of her mystery.
" Ye remember, when her ladyship
first came over, the robbery and the
work there was about her ; and the peo-
ple-the protestant people, (savin' y'er
favour-all but y'erself,) saying this,
that, and t'other about .her, as if she
wasn't what she out to be. Well, to my
knowledge and belief, the one who kept
this stirrin' was no other than that ould
vagabond-that the beams of God's own
sun and moon 'ud scorn to rest upon-
(saving' y'er presence, for mentionin'
him before ye)--ould Dacey ; because
ye're sensible he's a turn-coat in the
first place-and my lady is so steady to
her duty that it was ever and always
puttin' him to shame; and to be sure my
lady, seem,' I suppose,- that in foreign
parts the poor are all negres, God save
us! (may-be black bodies too,) my lady
was high to him-she has a high way
with her, I grant, and sure so has the
lilies, though they're- so sweet and gen-
tle when you come to know them-well,
for that he hated her ; and I'm sure it's
more to get at the way of punishing her,
than even securin' the property, that he's
been goin' on as he has lately---"
"Securing what property ?-going on
how ?" eagerly demanded Miss Dorn-
cliff.
" Let me tell you ry own way, miss,
agra! or I can't go on; besides, how
would ye get at the rights of it, if ye
didn't hear from the beginnin' !"
Miss Dorneliff resumed her patient at-
titude.
" Ye see ould Dacey knows what he's
afther, and Sir John has a way of his
own of 'never seeing' to any thing--gen.

9
I
1)
p
t

I


c               I
'
' "" .        .
riT +s'.:NeW alir   -4+: -:: -+ ,.  . ra.k , T i *A" =V"' -s  r r."- r-..r+A:

Y
A
;t
4

c
r  3 J
N
.. + ' '

i
L
A
t
}
i
7
13
v
]"'
t{
k
s
t
i
1
t
i
I,
1

The l Last of the IZne.

The Last of the Line.

27

26

295

296


297    298

r            '

The Last of the Line.                       29

6

tleman-like-though I can't but think it poor boy did, when they hear a thing,
a bad fashion; and while he was on the without being the one to tell it ?" retort.
continent there was a dale of plunderin' ed the girl, keenly looking into her face;
roguery goin' on; and when he came and the lady wisely, seeing that Mary
home, sure the agent managed to keep was now put on the qui vive to prevent
him employed gettin' presentments, and her lover being suspected as the infor-
entertainin', an' 'making speeches about mer, merely replied, "go on."
pathriotism, and all that, (I've been tould  " Ye've put me out ever so many
he's a powerful fine speaker, though I times ; but all I've got to say's easy said
can't say I ever hard him); and ever di- now ; it isn't enough for that ould'devil's
vartin' him with sich things, till the right pipin' that he has custotied, or some sich
time, when he turned, my dear ! as quick thing, the whole land, so as to make the
as a merryman, and bothered him with noble man all as one as a genteel beg.
debts and accounts. Now the masther gar, but now that the election is come
being' a classical scholard, (as I've hard on, and Sir John goin' to stand for the
tell), didn't by course like the figures, county and all--what d'ye think, but
which are only common larnin' ; and he's laid a plan to get the poor gentleman
the ould one played his cards so well, into W---, to give the word to some
that he made him hate the sight of a bill, thraythors of vagabonds, and get him ar-
or a figure; till at last Sir John said, rested and shampd fore'nent the whole
'manage it all y'erself, which he was county, unless-(oh, the black villain!)
glad to get the wind of the word to do, -unless---(the' sneakin' ditch-hopper!)
though all the time he'was purtendin' he -unless---(oh, indeed I can't say it, for
wanted the masther to look to it himself the choakin' of my throat !)-unless he
-,-the thief o' the world ! As well as I puts away his darlin' wife&amp;:-who can be
cair come at it, madam, (miss, I ax y'er made not his wife, on account of the re-
pardon,) Sir John agreed to let Dacey ligion, as I'm  credibly informed ; and
have pieces of estates, on the sly, for that, if he doesn't give in to this, he'll
ready money, at half their valee, agreein' expose him in the face of the people,
that Dacey should keep it to himself; for which I know the masther 'ud rather
the pride, ye see, wouldn't let him own die than stand. well, miss, ye see, he's
it ; and the ould one, 'cute like, got sich got Sir John to promise entirely that
another rogue as himself, in Dublin, to he'll not take my lady with him, be-
go somethin' in it. You'r sinsible, miss, cause she's delicate like; and he's per-
my lady. , Bein' not a well lamed girl, suaded masther she'd be in the way.
never havin' got beyant my read-a-me- And I want her to go--for look," con-
daisy, I can't understand the rights of tinued Mary, giving full scope to the
it, only that these two was cocherin to- action and energy of her country, "if
gether, and procurin' money--for what I she was with him, he couldn't desart
know, unlawful money-froin foreign her, and look in her sweet patient face,
parts, and gettin' bit by bit of the poor and her two darlint eyes, that send the
masther's property from him, and tyin' bames of true and pure love right to his
him down, as Benjy said."           soul ; he couldn't look at that, ma'am
"'As who said ?" interrupted Miss dear, and consent to stick a knife in her
"We hy Benjy said so," stammered teart and sentes sthe fond ca
forth the girl, confused at committing her thur that trusted him,i as if she -was a
lover's name.                       thing- of shame, abroad in the could,
" Then Benjy, as you call hin), was could, world !---but-" and here the
your informant as to these pretty villa- poor girl's voice sank from the highest
nous plots, I suppose ?" interrogated the tones of hope, to the low and feeble ones
lady.                               of uncertainty--"if she's not with him,
"I didn't say that, Miss Domneliff: and that villain at his shoulder ; and the
sure a body may make a remark, as theudisgrace ; and lose the election ; and all

,hat: and if he agrees, plinty o' money; u
pnd the seat; and ivery thing smooth, w
and .keep him more than half or whole n
mad, betwixt the fame and the whiskey! n
-it 'ill be all over with my poor lady-!
Oh, she little thinks ! this blessed night,
she'll lay'down her head and, die !" Ma-
ry hid her face in her hands, and sobbed F
bitterly.                            s
"My poor friend !-my dear- Made-
lina !" exclaimed Miss Dorneliff, as she y
hastily passed up and down the apart- 'h
ment, "how worthy of a better fate !-  l
Mary, there is no use in your denying a
it; Benjy has given you this informa- I
tion, and he must give it publicly."  f
"D'ye want, ruin on him too ?" re- y
turned the subdued girl; "sure he's
above a trade, and has been brought up s
like a born gentleman to do nothin'-;-  h
and, even if he had a mind, how can he s
turn agin the ould villain, his uncle, when c
sorra a penny he'd) have in the world, h
and dQsn't know how to make one ?"   n
" Look," said the lady ; "if Benja-I I
min will bring forward such proof of r
trickery as can force conviction on Sirr
John's mind, I will settle upon him a m
sufficiency for life ; and there," she con-C
tinted, throwing her purse into Mary's t
lap, "is the earnest of my promise."
For a moment, the girl forgot her mis-r
tress's interest in her own, as she eyed;
the glittering treasure ; but soon she re-i
verted to what, with true Irish fidelity,1 
was nearest to her heart.
"My lady, you'll come to her now,
and persuade the masther to take her, 1
and make out something to oblige. him to:
take her. Och ! my heart never warm-
ed to ye as much as it does at this min-
ute !-for they said----" She stopped
before the conclusion of the sentence. d
"What did they say, Mary ?" inquired
Mis Dorliff.
"That you, my lady-only I'm loath
to repeat a lie-that, may-be, you'd mar-
ry the masther, if he'd put off his wife."
Miss Dorneliff's, face and forehead
crimsonedto the deepest de at thisvii-
lanous insinuation. "M  ." h   ejacu
lated, as if to herself, " Me !-the base,
base-born churls! But I will save her,j
come what may. Mary," she contim-1

"- }    S- .   f+, w~rMw  .r y+w  P ,  ..,  ::+-  Mt~r   .., -rc .-  -_ R -  ,  .  a~r  -     ,q ,    -  .;  ,.a..v-..   ...,.+ . .

t

28

The Last of the Line.

l
yL
'p

ed, after a pause, "-Mary, do not say a
vord of your having~been here.; mind,
ot a syllable. You will see me in the
morning."
" Before masther goes ."' inquired
lary,
"No, but soon ; immediately after.
;ear not, my good girl, your mistress
hall be safely cared for."
"May the Holy Mother, whether
(e've faith in her or no, preserve ye from
iarm, and may heaven be y'er bed at
ast !" replied Mary, clasping her hands,
nd looking most affectionately at Miss
Dorncliff; "and a good night, and a
resh blessing' to ye every mornin' that
ye see day-light !"
When Miss Dorneliff was again alone,
he revolved her plans as she paced along
ier chamber. For the last three years
he had had the sole management and
ontrol of her father's affairs, whose age-
had, in a great degree, swallowed ul his
mind ; and a large property was also at
her sole command, which sl    had al-
eady inherited from her  eNe. That
eight she neither slumbered .nor slept;
repose came not to her body or her
spirit ; and from the highest window of
the dwelling, she watched until she saw
Sir John's equipage, with, his troop ofd
noisy retainers, pass the great gate on its
way to W----. She then ordered her
own carriage, and in a little time was at
Clavis Abbey. The first person she in-
quired for was Mary, and doubtless she
derived some information from .her, for
they were long together. She then pro-
ceeded to Lady Clavis's dressing-room,
and found her in tears."
" I can not tell why," said she, but
I feel a sad anticipation of evil hanging
over me. It was so strange, John kissed
me this morning when he thought I was
asleep; and, do you know, he attempted
to kneel at Madelina's cradle but he
rushed, like a madman, from the room,
despite my efforts to recall him."' o
" We must follow him, then," o-
served eMiss Dornelifff'o assmin nirt
ofgaiey, "w   .utflo hel kngt
I want most sadly to go to the ection;,
my presence will cheer on my own ten-
ants to his service ; and there is no say

s
F"
t.
r
ii
3
i((
9+
ri
Y f
J.
1
J
f         3
t       f
'   i
1
r
I
I
f
t
2
F
a
{
i

"
r"
f
f
1
t #ro-
,  F

l                                 {

a   -         ,v ':'              -                      -                      1  {'a+' ti' , 4;'''     Z, xrr  ti ii!+ .irulY' ,dT   k:'                                        . A   'r r+''$ ?. ',''et "   %"°  .:-....wcr r     ,.-k:: ,,F..  i
'  . 'a' lFa.r -;  :a + ik.'WF'  t:. i y 944          - '.a 'V'Ktme ',Se Ykyl d' I '"Ka+Ai: +  Y n,#   4-   i

1

1           x? it hr                G° jtb
iWoe


w[:

The Last of the Lzne.

299   .00

The Last of the Line.

ing but that some of them, were I not
the spot, might dare to think' for they
selves. Besides, I can only go und
the protection of a matron, you knoi
No interruption ; I must be obeyed ; w
will set off this afternoon, so as to he
his maiden speech from the hustings."
Lady Clavis offered a very weak o
position to what her heart longed to e
gage in, and they arrived in W-.-
about half past ten at night. The litt
Madelina was left in Mary's care at th
Abbey.
There was no difficulty in finding th
inn, or, as it was called, hotel, where t h
Orange member put up ; for he ha
steadily refused going to the house of an
of his constituents.
The waiters immediately recognize
Lady Clavis, and, with many bows, con
ducted her into the passage, which wa
empty at the time, though the sounds o
music, singing, and loud debate, wer
clearly distinguished by the ladies,- eve
before they alighted from their carriage
" You can show us to a sitting-room
where we can wait'till Sir John is disen
gaged. We wish to surprise him," sail
MissDorncliff.
"'I can't tell him ye're here just-now
my lady," replied the man, "for M-r
Dacey said they war not to be disturbed;
and there's two gentlemen, I'm thinkin
from Dublin, besides two or three others
waitin' to get speakin' with him. And
it's myself don't know where to put
y'er ladyships, barrin' ye'll go into a
ptirty tidy room jist off where his hon-
our's settlin' ,a little affair of business
with Mr. Dacey. Sure, if I'd known
you war comm', it's the great grand
committee-place I'd have redied for ye."
"Be firm and cautious now, my dear
friend, for the hour of trial is come," ob-
served Miss Dorncliff in French, as she
pressed her friend's arm closely to her
heart ;---" the men from Dublin, and all:
we have just arrived in the right time--
you may depend upon it, all will be
well."                            ,
The waiter stared with stupid aston-
ishment, and said, "May-be ye'd have
the goodness, my lady, not to speak out
much, as Sir John's at business in the

on next.room, and he mightn't like to be
m- disturbed ; it 'ill do to tell him by'n by,
er won't, it my lady ?  But what'll you
w. please to take ?"
ye "Nothing, nothing, now," replied
ar Miss Dorncliff; for Lady Clavis appeared
incapable of either mental or bodily
p- exertion. Her friend had revealed to
n- her a considerable .portion of her plaps
at and anxieties during their brief journey;
le and her elegant but weak mind, unable
ie to arrive at any conclusion, remained in
a state of passive obedience.
e   Communicating with the next apart-
ie ment was a small door, which, in the-
td true Irish fashion, hung very loosely on
y its hinges; the cracks and chinks were
many ; apd through the principal one
d Miss Dorncliff saw Sir John sitting at a
- table, his face buried in his hands ; while
s Dacey, whose head was approached
f close to his,- was talking in a low, eager
e tone ; so low that only broken syllables
n reached her ear.
At last Sir John removed his hands,
, and lifting his eyes slowly, while his pale
- and sunken features expressed the pain-
d ful struggles he endured, said, "It must
not be, Dacey ; do youthink I want to
insure damnation to my soul ?  What
possible difference can it make to you,
that you thus stipulate for her destruc-
 tion? Men are seldom so desperately
wicked without a motive."
I   " Hasn't she scorned me, and ordered
me out of the room a;, if I was a neagre ?
--hasn't she treated me with the con-
tempt which a man never forgives ?---.
hasn't she      but the short and the
long of it is, Sir John, that you know my
determination: disgrace her, or disgrace
yourself !--disclaim your marriage, or
go to jail !-to jail instead of to parlia-
ment ,!-to the jail, where Mr. Mahon
can point, as he passes it, at the last of
,the house of Clavis ! There's the pen
and the ink ; I don't force ye ; do as ye
please; it's no business of mine.' The
fellow pushed some parchments and pa-
pers towards the unfortunate baronet,
and gathered unto himself a pile of rou-
leaus .that were filled with gold, while
his eyes gloated and glared on the ago-
nized face of his patron ! " Sure,

there's no harm in life in keeping a for-
eigner like her," continued the brute ;
"many has done the same, and will
again. Send her back to the 'olive-'
groves of Spain,' she's so fond of sing-
ing about, and      "
" Peace, miscreant !" roared Sir John,
in a voice of thunder, quite forgetting
the time and place.
" Whisht !" exclaimed the coward,
"never call names so l6ud-you know
I'm y'er best friend. If these sheriff's,
officers hear ye, it will be high mass within
us all!"
The baronet sunk back in a state of
stupefaction, and the agent advanced to-
wards him, pen in hand. Almost me-
chanically Sir John took the little instru-
ment in his fingers,-its point touched'
the paper: even the letter JL was traced,
whemMiss Dorncliff pushed strongly
against the door ; and, in the same in-
stant, both. Sir John and Dacey were
trembling in her presence. For some
moments, all parties remained silent-1
gazing at each other with such varied ex-
pressions, as would be difficult to de-
scribe. With the politeness with which
Nature has endowed every Irishman,
from the prince to the peasant, both push-
ed seats towards the young heiress, which
she declined ; at last Sir John inquired,
as the pen dropped from his fingers, "to
what circumstance they were indebted
for the honour of her visit ?"
"I came, Sir John," she replied--and
the first sentence was uttered in a trem-
bling voice, which gained strength as she
proceeded, " I came to save the, HUs-
BAND of my friend, Lady Clavis, from
destruction !"
Sir John's pride mounted, as he re-
plied stiffly and formally, " that he was
not aware to what Miss Dorncliff could
allude."
" Thi , Sir John," she continued,
heedless o' his interruption, " is a bad'
time for c mpliments ; you were about
to sign a p per repudiating your wife, in
order that th t bad man' might relieve
your prese necessities, and save you
from arrest. I -can not now bring for-
ward the proofs that I possess, of his1
villanies, and the various arts he has'

used, to dupe your understanding, while
he ruined your property. I pledge my
word to do so; and to redeem all, even
the little Corner estate, from his clutch-
es, if, instead of signing his paper, you
will sign mine-and, to relieve your
present embarrassment, I will tell down,
guinea for guinea, of the money. you are
to receive from that person ! Need I
say more?  Need I urge the love you
have tried ? Need I ask if you will con-
sign your child to shame ?   Need I
She was interrupted by a loud and
piercing shriek from Lady Clavis, as
with one strong effort she rushed from
the outer room, and threw herself into
her husband's arms. He was so unpre-
pared, so astonished, that he did not ap-
pear able to support hetr, and she sank
gradually on her knees; her hands
clasped ; her hair falling in heavy masses
over her neck and shoulders; and her
eyes shining with unnatural brightness,
from amid'the bursting tears that flowed
incessantly down her cheeks. It is im-
possible to describe the mingled look of
hope and anxiety with which she re-
garded Sir John. Miss Dorneliff ad-
vanced to her side ; and, as her tall,
commanding figure, towered over the
bending form of her friend, she laid her
hand on the baronet's arm, and, in a low
impressive tone,. said, "Can you look
upon and crush her ?" The appeal
was decisive. He pressed his wife con-
vulsively to his bosom; and, it is no dis-
grace to his manhood, to.confess that his
tears mingled with her's.
" This is all mighty fine," at length
exclaimed Dacey, whose vulgar perplex-
ity was beginning to subside into assu-
rance, "but I don't understand it."
" And who supposed that the wallow-
ing swine comprehended the sweetness
of the ring-dove's note ?" replied Miss
Dorneliff, casting upon him a withering
look of contempt and scorn.
" I don't deserve that from you, Miss,"
said the-savage, interpreting the expres-
sion of her countenance, " for I meant
to help you to a husband."
" Sir John Clavis, I call upon you to
turn that man out of the room !"~ replied

30

31

z
a '
t
}
t4     z  }
i
,Ya
' L
t
e1e
2t
F(
to
r
r
i
i'
I    '
°i
2   ri
r^
j:
i
TTT)
I

_                         V
- +,.

,j v v                                                                                                        ,
..--^-

r
.  9     ' t     .,:-J  ".      .. .. ...      ; :          ,.     ::     i    .i:.. n        ,... ..  .                ,..   i:::       . .:-...                                                                "f,               qq         1               a            k  x  r  e +3' r  .     4 .  4 1 i  t                             _i                4_..,   ..
,:      e  {          -.,..   _....   ..-.  t  .. i. ;:-.  ,..    r,.F.. n..,l  .e  - e   :.t.: t..               '-       .,  ..  ..:      .  .i~     r .  r .... .                                                                U     5'."                        . k'           j-  " i      ::1  .s                             If  Y..           {
-      .....        ,: ,.      . r,  .  ,.   :.. t   "      ..: 5,5.,t'i }r.,   * .u    s             ;           :.     '!¢.r.:.  k      .., S,:ts     r  a .fs .. :                   I                              ' t-       _    i.  i4  +     .r    9    i              ' .,                                    '           .                     a
.:         ,.r., r.... r        .,  :,_.       ..  l;         t., ::,        :::.:-f  _.",  .-3.;ti. =$t         -  ^taT.:    Ysr. f"+    . . .,     .:-. f      a        .;.    J'+ 7       !-                                         u  t     ,f                     +y                     ,N.   ;R'                y.                           }y(           fit,
-1 '                        .{                  'turf           ..'1: {  4                            -                                                          A,.k"       r

It

A
a s

V
fie' .. ix, r , s  tn.  nar.  . vkM...  ,lf",R   ,r ""1'e 1, aAd.i  .r .n  .; -.           .
!z                          V.iOM"'  jc' i "                          'h        .4,     ~y, ,    n,    '
'gy     t     .       ;                             ~, y-c            yr',       "g_,;          Ate   i      ,


v2 Th      ato  h  in.3140                    h  Ls  f h ie

the lady; "let him and his gold vanish
and trust for this night to the agency o
your wife's friend !"         --
Bitter and deep were the curses hi
muttered, while depositing the coin it
his leather wallet; he would hav
formed no unapt representation of Satat
preparing baits for sin ; but foiled ever
in this effort.
"I recommend you, Dacey, to be si
lent," said the baronet.
"But others won't be so," growled
forth the menial, as he retired. He had
hardly closed the door, when he reinem
oered the papers and parchments he had
left on the table, and returned with the
view of securing them. Miss Dornclifl
had anticipated this - movement ; and,
placing her hand firmly on the docu-
ments, signified so decidedly her inten-
tion of not suffering their removal, that,
baffled at all points, he finally withdrew.
le could hardly have reached the hall,
when the officers, who had been waiting
outside, made their appearance, in no
very gentle manner, to make good.their
seizure. This, however, Miss Dorncliff
prevented, by paying the amount de-
manded, and the room was soon cleared
of such graceless company.
" Now, then," said the generous girl,
l9oking round her with a happy and
cheerful countenance, "now, Sir John,
my document must be signed. I claim
that as my reward. My own lawyer
will settle other matters at some future
date," but that must be done before I
either slumber or sleep; the physician
demands her fee."
The baronet seized the pen, which, a
short time before, he had taken to per-
form-a very different office, and affixed
his name to the paper she presented.
After placing it within her bosom, she
remained some time silent, while the
vacillating man was endeavouring to ex-
plain his conduct to his wife, who, loving
much, forgave all.
" It s well," she thought, " that such
men should be wedded to such gentle
women.. My affection would always
expire with my esteem;.but now, she
loves and believes, as if he had never
been about to ruin her reputation, and to

stigmatize for ever their°innocent child !
if There must be something mysterious in
this love, which I cannot comprehend."
e She could, however, comprehend the
n depths and sweets of the noblest friend-
e ship. Her sleep that night. was, light
n and refreshing; and, it was not till the
n morning was- far advanced, that the
shouts and bustle of an Irish election,
- woke her to consciousness, and activity.
It is not to be supposed that Dacey's
I bad but enterprising spirit, would rest
I composedly under detection, and conse-
- quent exposure. He conjectured, truly,
I that Miss Dorneliff, through .some means,
which at present he could only suspect,
f had obtained information of his inten-
tions, and was prepared to render null
and void his basely-earned bargains and
nefarious schemes. He was aware that,
until the election was over, no investi-
gation could be systematically gone into;
and he hit upon a cold and villanous de-
sign to prevent the inquiry he had so
much reason to dread. He knew well
the character of the opposing candidate-.
a fearless, careless, man-vigorous and
imprudent--.
-'  -      Jealous of honour,
Sudden and quick in quarrel;"
who had fought more duels than any
man in the county;- and was as often
called "Bullet Mahon," as "Barry Ma.
hon." He existed only in an atmos-
phere of democracy ; and his hot impa-
tient aspect, firm tread, blustering voice,
and arrogant familiarity, formed a very
striking contrast to the polished, weak,
but gentlemanly, bearing of Sir John
Clavis. It was not at all unlikely that a
quarrel would ensue, before the termina-
tion of the election, and many had even
betted upon it. With the generality of
Irishmen, it would have been unavoida-
ble. But, though Sir John had. never
shown the white feathei-, he was a deci-
dledly peaceable man--and was known
so to be. Dacey, however, resolved not
to trust to chance in the matter, and the
morning of the 'second day he was clos-
eted with Mahon for nearly an hour,
When the candidates appeared on th'e
ill-constructed hustings, to greet their
respective constituents, it appeared evi-

,dent that Mahon was overboiling with
iage at some known orsupposed injury.
:Sir John's address was mild, and more
than usually facetious ; a style better un-
derstood and appreciated in England than
in the sister island ; he alluded to, with-
out exulting at, the favourable state of
the poll; and, after a short and cheering
exhortation to his friends, resumed his
seat.
When Mahon prepared to address the
crowd, he swang hisbody uneasily from
side to side, looking, when wrapt up in
his huge white coat, as the personifica-
tion of those unhappy polar bears who
suffer confinement in our menageries.
At last, elevating his right arm, as if
threatening total annihilation to all who
even differed from him in opinion, he
began ,one of'those inflammatory ad-
dresses that have been followed up by so
many second-rate agitators in modern
times; he talked of the distresses of the
people, until those who had just eaten a
hearty dinner, imagined they were liter-
ally starving-and assured them so often
that they were in a debased state of bon-
dage, that at last they fancied they were
sinking under their fetters' weight. "I
would have you beware," he said, exert-
ing to their utmost power his Stentorian
lungs, "I would have you all, green as
well as orange, beware of those who
would purchase your votes by' bribery !
If a man gives a bribe, he will take one!
-and I wonder my opponent is not
ashamed-I say ashamed-to show his
face here, after the conduct he has prac-
tised in private."
Sir John Clavis called upon Mr. Ma-
hon to explain.
Mr. Barry Mahon said he did not
come there to explain-he came to
speak, and speak he would-no descend-
ant of an 'ipostor should put him
lown-if Sir John Clavis wished for ex-
planation, he could seek it elsewhere-if
he did not do so, he was a COWARD.
The language had grown too violent,
or, as the interfering parties called it,
"too warm," even for an Irish election;
and the friends of both candidates en-
deavoured to put an end to it, or, at all
events, to conclude it in another place.

As Mr. Mahon refused to make any
apology, or even give any explanation, it
became necessary, according to the re-
ceived and approved code of honour, for
Sir John Clavis tf send a message to the
gentleman who had so grossly insulted
him.
It was sent, but Clavis so worded it
as to leave the matter open to apology.
This, however, was not taken'advantage
of, and a "meeting" for the next morn-
ing was.of course agreed (upon.
Since their reconciliation, poor Lady
Clavis had been suffering severely from
agitation ; her mind and body had re-
ceived a severe shock ; and, though the
happy termination, through her friend's
kind sacrifice, had set her trembling
heart at ease, her health had not yet
mastered the struggle ; she had been
confined to her chamber, unceasingly at-
tended by Miss Dorneliff.
About seven o'clock on the evening of
the distressing quarrel between the can-
didates, Lady Clavis had just requested
her friend to open the window, that she
might feel the breath of heaven on her
fevered cheek, even for a few moments;
her fine dark eyes were fixed on the
setting of a rich autumnal sun, which
shed its glories over the scattered houses,
and converted them into dwellings of
molten gold. She was reclining on a
couch formed of the high-backed chairs
of the rude apartment, and as her hus-
band entered she greeted him with in-
quiries as to the state of the poll. Miss
Dorncliff thought within herself that he
looked pale and agitated, but did not al-
lude to the circumstance. He was hard-
ly seated, when a servant placed a note
in Lady Clavis's hand; she just broke
tg wafer, and, glancing at the contents,
burst into tears. Sir John perused it
with almost the same agitation ; and the
intelligence it conveyed was well calcu-
lated to excite sorrow, for it said that the
little Madelina had been taken danger-
ousl~ ill, and Mary Conway, the wr,1-
ter, ntreated Lady Clavis, "for God's
sake, to come home, if she wished to see
the child alive." The mother lost to
time in her preparations ; she thought
not of herself; and to Sir John, under

y~,,"  . t(,N." -  y  y  i'55 ,  ''   "  [  - r r  i  w r'  i '      '

I

7         t
V
,CFi
{
j.    r

YJ , ,-
'ter.,                          .  ,t_.       _

I

±   v .                                                                             E/                                        . raw .
... r

.,3 r     '                          c:.            v         , +     -         t-                                                                                           -                               F4 .-                             Yj,:     l       ra'q.t-~},h}:= J  (iii                      '.  Ybs.  ,Sx       -.,a?    ..
- .                                s      -       9.tt                                                          i:j  l{N -is'                   fig .:.  .                                         Ca.' .      r r                             -          . {.,..t- . i           h..                                    .,'
'{,   -                          i        .';     ry,+                i't4         ._       ,x  'eil a   n    1     .   r S.1S.,a  '                   a                                                            . i'   ,r       '     . s  .       1                .,y,,; ,            :'tn
_k    ," ": +. F': y ' 7  r;.'      e   ^;u.      a,                  x .,.h                        ;i Y2" ,?C. %'G3Y ?         ,:a  t      't,'  t              : r. ,t                                1        M.     r    '...s           }-                              r#                t               , -;,fi    '       7 ;;                   -
,..                                                                                  ::.
k   ..e g  . r.    ; y      ',     = c       S'' .. ?,.rx       .                      a7t;,y,   v   'qtr:             ,;: + y .!      ' Iwr  .t, s       e

t 
r
///
r
{i
i
r

The Last o the Line.

The Last o the .dine.

32

301  l2402

v v i yyi

V


w
e
a
'1
.,,

34

existing circumstances, her departure
was a relief: he kissed' and handed h(
into the carriage; the door was shut, an
the coachman preparing to drive of
when Sir John called to him to stole
The evening sun had set, and the night
wind was blowing sharply in the horses
heads ; the baronet pushed the footma'
away, and, unfastening the door, let th
steps -down, so that he could kneel upot
them-.
" Madelina," he said, in a low agitate(
tone, and in her own dear native tongue
'Madelina, do you, from your heart
forgive me, for the. unkindness I havi
shown.-for the injury I'would have don
you, and our suffering child ?"
" My soul's life," she replied, "why
do you ask ? I cannot think of you and
injury at the same time; from my heart
I have forgiven you." She bent her
head forward to kiss her husband, and
the wind blew one of the long locks of
her raven hair across his, face. He
seized upon it, as on a treasure.
" I must keep this .to wear next my
heart till--"  "we meet again," he
would have added, but the sentence re-
mained unfinished, while he severed the
riiglet from the rest; he then extended
his hand to Miss Dorneliff, and contin-
ued, even in a more broken tone, " You
have been her friend,-as well as my pre-
server; .I -commit her to your care !"
" How kind and affectionate he has
grown !" observed Lady Clavis, as the
carriage drove on ; " when this dreadful
election is over, and our darling recov-
ered, we shall be so happy !-and to
you, my dear, dear friend-my more
than sister-I owe all this: his first love
was not so sweet to me as his returning
affection ;" and, overcome with many
contending feelings, the gentle creature.
sank into a troubled sleep.
'rhe roads were heavy, and the hum-
baring carriage and fatted horses little
accustomed to hasty journeyings; they
had got on at the rate of three miles, or
three miles and a half, the hour, and
were within five miles of the Abbey,
when their progress was arrested- by a
Algure on horseback seizing the reins,
and commanding them to stop. "God

303 104

e be thanked for his marcy!" ejaculated 2
r well-known voice, "by his blessin' i
d 'ill not be too.late, and he may be saved
I', yet."
S   " Who saved?-what do you, mean,
t- Mary ?" eagerly demanded Miss Dorn.
s' cliff, for Lady Clavis was not sufficiently
n collected  to make any inquiry, and
e only looked wildly from the carriage.
n window.
"The master ! the master !-turnd
d the horses' heads, Leary, as ye value
, salvation, or the priest's blessin' !"
"Explain first, Mary, for this is mad.
e ness," replied Miss Dorneliff; wheree
e --how is the child ?"'
")Here," she replied, unfolding her
cloak, and placing the smiling cherub on
l its mother's lap. 64I knew misthress 'ud
never believe it was aliveland well, when
I hard o' the trick just to get ye all out
Io' the way, my lady-and you too,
f Miss, who unriddled .so much before
that he thought you'd be at it again--
the villain! The short an' the long of
it is, that ould rascal tould some lies to
the other mimber that wants to be, and,
on the strength of them lies, him, the
other man, insulted master forenent the
d people; and they'd a row'; and the up-
shot of it is that they're io fight a jewil
to-morrow morning-Lord save us-like
Turks- or Frenchmen;. and 'twas he
wrote the note-as one let on to me,
who rode a good horse to tell it-and,
troth, grass didn't grow \mnder my feet
either. But turn, turn !-we'll may-be
get a help of horses on the road ; I'll
gallop on and have 'em ready, though it's
as much as we can to reach town by
day-light."
The servants urged the jaded animals{
to their utmost speed ; and  prayers
mingled with the tears Lady Clavis shed
as she pressed her child to her bosom.
Miss Dorncliff endeavoured to give what
shze did not possess--hope. She knew
that Barry Mahon's bullet was unerring;
and, from time to time, she let down the
front glass to cheer forward the anxious
coachiman. The horses Mary procured
on the road were more a hindrance than
a help, so restive and ignorant were they
as to carriage-harness. Never did cul-

The Last o

------------

The Last of the Line.

prits, who watch for, yet dread, the
coming day, feel more bitterly than they
did when the first thin stream of light
appeared on the horizon ; the stars, one
by one, faded from their gaze ; and at
last-the spire of the church of W
appeared like a dark speck on. the clear-
ing sky.
"Forward, forward, my good Leary !"
said Miss Dorncliff; "'t ere's the church-
steeple-hasten now, and reward   all
not be wanting. '/
"It isn't the reward-it's the ~st ier
I'm thinking of," replied the faithf1e -
low. "If we had the luck to be on the
Dublin road itself, there'd be some chance
of help; but here---"    He groaned
audibly; and, by words of encourage-
ment, and a more liberal application of
the whip, forced the horses -into some-
thing like a trot.
"I can see the masts of the vessels
that are lying in the harbour," exclaimed
Mary ; " for God's sakehasten, Leary !"
"I may as well throw down the-reins,"
replied Leary ; " they can only crawl;
this one's sides are cut with the whip,i
and'that one's fallen lame, too !"
" I could walk faster than the horses
can go now," said Miss Dorncliff.
"And so could I, and we will walk,"
replied Lady Clavis, rousing all her en-
ergies.
"Do, do, my dearest friend," retorted
Miss Dorncliff, " for I see figures on the
bridge that cannot be mistaken ; and if
we could only get there in time, all could
be explained."
Lady Clavis sprung from the carriage
with a promptness that astonished her
friend. She folded her chil'losely to
her bosom, and' took the path across
some meadows, which led, by a nearer
way than the carriage-road, to the field
that for centuries had been the duellist's
meeting-place. The agony of her mind
may be .imagined, but cannot be de-
scribed. There was her liusband-eve-
ry step rendered him more visible-she
pressed .onward-and her .child was
rocked by -the panting of her bosom.,
The ground is measured-she flew with-
out disturbing the dew that trembled on
the grass; repeatedly she raised and

'- - --

.,

f the Line.                       3-6
waved her arm, eager to arrest attention
-it was in vain!
Man to man stood opposed-not in
spirited combat, but with cold murdering
designs on each other. She screamed
loud and fearfully, and her scream was
answered by a fiendish, laugh, which
seemed to proceed from the hollow of a
blighted tree that stood in her pathway ;
as she passed it, the bad face of Dacey
glared upon her with bitter exultation.
She shrank involuntarily from his ken,
and the report of a pistol struck upon
her ear with appalling distinctness ; it
was followed by another, and the next
moment saw her kneeling by the side of
him h  m she had loved with all the fer-
vour of the glowing south, and all the
fidelity of our colder climes ; the inno-
cent baby crept from her arms over his
bosom, and pressed her little lips to, those
of her dead father. Lady Mla'vis mo-
tioned off the people, who wished to re-
move the body, and with fearful calmness
unbuttoned the bosom of his shirt, and
looked intently on the wound, and the
oozing blood. :She attempted to unfasten
it still more, but started back as if some
new horror had been displayed,. when
the tress of hair he had severed from her
head the night before, appeared literally
resting on his heart. Tears did not dim
her eyes, which became fixed and mo-
tionless ; and her whole figure assumed
a frightful rigidity. The scene was even
too much for Ellen Dorneliff's firmness;
she fainted while endeavouring to take
the child from the remains of its ill-
starred parent.
"IT'S THE LAST "OF THE LINE, sure
enough," exclaimed an old ke er, who
had watched the whole melancho pro-
ceeding ; " for a girl, and such a gi1, if
report says tr , has no hoult the
land-ill got, il gone !"
-My tale is told, and many will recog
nize it as over true. Lady Clavis's in-
tellect never recovered the shock it re-
ceived, and some years afterwards she
died in a convent in Catalonia. The
property .of Clavis passed into other
hands and those who obtained it were
~generous and honourable enough to set-
tie upon Lady Clavis ana ner child a

a
V '.jle3_w' 4  , ti  ,.,oa., ..,xatgr.     _                -r           '     -  'Ai~k                        -   y-

I
Y'Y"   , r       v      .                                                                                                                      '                                      +,4     i"        "*4.irNl                                                                                                            ,i                         ".;{It    'iri .,.    ,                +,t   '   ',

I'
'r
I


The TwQ Maidens.

30b    306

The Two Maidens.                          37

much greater income than they would
have been entitled to, had there- even
been legal proof of the marriage, which
it was generally supposed could not be
obtained, or.Miss Dorncliff would have
brought it forward. So perfect, however,
was the evidence she had collected of
Dacey'svillany, that he was never suf-
fered to enjoy his ill-gotten wealth. I
remember himi in extreme old age-a
hated, mischievous, drivelling idiot. Ma-
ry and Benjy were "as happy,", to use
the tale-telling phrase, "as the days were

THE TWO'

BY T. S.

"Goon morning, Mrs. Hinton," said
Martha Green, lifting her head, as a visit-
er entered the room in which she sat,
busily engaged in sewing, "You see
that I am full of work."
" So you seem to be," was the quiet
reply. " But I suppose you can spare
to-night, for a work of mercy ?"
" How a work of mercy, Mrs. Hin-
ton !"
" Poor old Mrs. Benderis very ill-so
ill that she cannot be left alone any length
of time. I have been up with her two
nights in succession, and am now looking
nor one or two young ladies who will
take charge of her to-night. Can I de-
pend on you ?"
"Not to-night, Mrs. Hinton, it would
be impossible ! It will take me till twelve
to-night, and the most part of to-morrow,
to finish this dress, which I must wear
20

long-;" and Miss Dornclif-who was a
living refutation of all the scandal ever
heaped upon that most injured and most-
respectable class of persons called old
maids-received, in her declining age,
more than even a child's attention from
Madelina Clavis.  Some years subse,
quent to the incidents I have detailed, the
papers, with all due ceremony, an-
nounced that excellent and interesting
young lady's marriage with-the next heir
to an earldom.
MA IDE NS
ARTHUR.
at Mrs. Corrie's party to-morrow even-
ing.--Any other time I would go with'
pleasure."
"I am really sorry for that. I have
been to two or three this morning, and,
all have declined on account of this par-
ty."
" Hannah Ball can go as readily as not,
Mrs. Hinton. She had her new dress,
made at the mantua-maker's."
" I have seen Hannah."
"Does she decline ?"
"Yes."
" That's very strange. What reason
does she give ?"
"She says, that if she were to sit up
to-night, it would ruin her appearance
to-morrow evening. That it would make
her look dreadful."
" There is something in that, you
know yourself, Mrs. Hinton. Loss of

rest has the same effect upon me. I
don't look fit to be seen for two or three
days after losing a night's sleep."
"Yes, I know that sitting up does not
improve the looks much," Mrs. Hinton
gravely remarked; and then, after paus-
ing a few moments, got up, and said, asi
she moved towards the door-
"Well, I must bid.you good morning,
Martha, time is passing, and I must find
some one who will relieve me, or I shall
get sick myself."
" I do hope you will," Martha said, in
a tone of concern. " Were I not situ-
ated just as I am, I should go with plea-
sure 1"
And then the visiter went away. Af-
ter her departure, Martha Green sat
thoughtfully for some minutes. She did
not feel altogether satisfied with herself,
and yet, on reflection she could not see
any cause for self-condemnation. Sin-'
cerely did she pity the condition of poor
old Mrs. Bender, who was nearly seven-
ty years of age, sick, and without any
one in the world up to whom she could
look and claim, from consanguinity, a
single kind office. "But it was impos-
sible for her to go," she reasoned ; in
the effort to quiet her uneasy feelings,
"under the circumstances-utterly im-
possible."
Still she sat thoughtful, without re-
suming her needle. At length she
aroused herself with the half audible re-
mark-
"Somebody will go, of course"-andl
that settled the matter.
It was, perhaps, an hour after, that a
yound friend, and confidant, dropped in
to sit an hour with Martha. The conversa-
tion run, of course, on the party to be held
at Mrs. Corrie's on the next evening.
"You will look beautiful in this dress,"
the friend remarked, lifting a portion of
the garment upon which Martha was at
work, in her hand. " It suits your com-
plexion admirably; besides being of a
rich material, and attractive, yet -appro-
priate, and not too gaudy in color."
" I am glad you think so," Martha re-
plhed, with a smile of satisfaction. "I
don't believe there will be anything half
so elegant at the party."
3,                      .

..  a  si  -=r,  .   ...  ,u~f°    '. .'..ra .-.  .n.. . .  v  et  g ; fit
'u"     S    r  r     ,  !. . .            S   F  ! J    !  u  i   Yt ^       n

I

36

"There will at'least be one dress
there that will fully equal it," the visiter
said.
"Are you sure ?" in a tone of disap-
pointment.
" Yes. As I came along this morn-
ing, on my way here, I dropped in to see
Ellen Willard, and found her at work as
you are upon her own dress. She has
certainly selected it with.exquisite taste.
Much as I admire yours, I should prefer
the one she has chosen. 'She 'wil at-
tract much attention, of course, for you
know that she is a girl of a great deal of
taste, and knows how to dress to the
very best advantage."
This intelligence had the effect to
change, naturally the tone of Martha's
feelings. As far as was in her power,
she concealed this change from her friend,
but after she'had left, her countenance ex-
pressed much concern. The reason was
this. A young man named Alton, had
paid her a good many attentions, in the
last few months, and of such a marked
kind, that she had suffered her affections
to become a good deal interested.-The
extent of this interest had not become
apparent to herself, until within a week
or two, during, which time, she thought
that she perceived a slight change in his
manner towards her, united with, on two
or three occasions, a perceptible prefer-
ence for the company of Ellen Willard.
One reason for her being unusually desi-
rous of making, if.possible, the very best,
appearance at the party of Mrs. Corrie,
was to fix agaip the wavering regard of
Mr. Alton. To learn, then, that Ellen
was likely to equal, if not to eclipse her,
was no very pleasant information, and it
troubled her in spite of every effort to
rally her feelings.
Time passed, and the evening came-
for the-anticipated company. Martha
was there early, dressed with the most
scrupulous regard to effect, yet tastefally
in every respect. Alton came in perhaps
half an hour after. The maid's heart~
bounded as she saw him enter, while the
soft tint of her cheek, delicate as the rose
blossom, deepened its hrie. The eye of
the young man glanced around the bril-
liantly lighted room, evidently in search

,t
,'

i
,
+
i
r      }
i
E
4
z
v                           k
F
(tj   _
f
1
E l
t

:+,  ....,..,yv ...                                                            r.r.n

r          : ,L                                                      a  s .         _ ....'. , ''":  _ artme ;'°:      "'   ' -3it" '"''  «wt:  w,: i r   -        r, ,r ~
gr-. -ct,: :. ' ^;  yhW''C1irwi-   ro, a.,  '.  °'                                    7
q "
l

,,
_
E
.
(, i

.,
;".  . ,
.j
. k
h',
t
1L"
,f}   f
e, If
i ,t
;}s
f

5
t
'  '
+1=try-nyjvq,.' -;.+s  ,+ 7n.1f... s  ,I::


' I  «r

307

308

The Two Maidens.

of some one, and then he seated himself
alone, as if disappointed, and again slow-
ly surveyed the company. 'Of course he
did not fail to notice Martha Green. In
a little while others made their appear-
ance, and soon he found himself by the
side of one of his most intimate friends.
" Did you ever see Martha Green
look so beautiful ?".=he said to this young
man.
"Where is she? Oh, yes-I see. Real-
ly, she is a superb looking woman."
"Isn't she ? But there is one whom I
expect here to-night, that, if I am not
mistaken,.will eclipse her."
" Who is she?"
"Ellen Willard."
"There she is now. Look at her, and
then yield the palm at once to Miss Green.
Really, I never-saw Ellen look so indif-
ferent in all my life,"
Alton turned his eyes towards the
door, and sure enough there was Ellen,
plainly dressed, though neat, and her face
wearing an expression of weariness. It
was a moment or two before he spoke,
and then he said, in a tone of disappoint-
ment,
" As you say, I never saw her look so
indifferent in my life. Still, she is a
sweet girl, even though eclipsed to-night,
in every way, by Martha Green."
"Theycertainly will not bear a com-
parison," responded the friend.
Martha Green, who was sitting beside
the friend and confidant mentioned as
having called on her the day before, had
been glancing uneasily towards the door,.
every time it opened to admit some new
comer, and was among the first to per-
ceive Ellen.
"0 dear! If that is all, no one here,
need fear being thrown into the shade
to-night," was her exulting remark.
"'Why I thought you told me that she
was at work on a dress even more beauti-
ful than mine ?"
"So she was," replied her friend.
"And I cannot for my life tell why she
'has not worn it."
"She could not get it done, Isuppose."
" Perhaps not. There was a good
deal to do on it when I saw her. Indeed
she had just commenced working on it."

4

"Do you not know that I am right
down glad of it ?" Martha said.
"No-why ?"
"Because, if she had come out in her
very best style this evening, I am very
much afraid Mr. Alton would have been
too much pleased with her."
"Indeed ! I thought he was paying al-
most exclusive attention to you."
" So I have flattered myself until
within the last, week or two, when he
has seemed to grow a little more atten-
tive to Ellen than is agreeable to me."
"You have nothing to fear to-night,
Martha, just see! She has that old dress,
worn by her at the last-half dozen par-
ties. And instead of her usual brilliant
complexion, her skin looks sallow, and
her cheeks pale; and her whole face has
a dull lifeless expression. What on
earth can be the matter? Something
has happened, no doubt, to prevent her
from getting that dress done, which has
worried her so much as to spoil her very
face. And see, with what .a look Mr.
Alton is now regarding her."
" Yes, I see ; and what is more, I see
that I am safe."
In a few minutes after, Alton took a
seat beside Martha, cured, as he thought,
of the evident preference which had- re-
cently existed in his mind for Ellen Wil-
lard, over her anxious rival. This pref-
erence had not been so distinct as to have
been founded upon any serious compari-
son made in his mind between the in-
trinsic claims to estimation, which the
two young ladies presented; it was rather
a leaning towards Ellen, without reflect-
ing upon the reason why she seemed
more interesting to him than Martha.
Of course, it required but a trifle to
change that state of mind. He now re-
newed his attentions to Martha Greeh,
with even more than his former assiduity,
t~o th'e entire neglect of Jgllen Willard,
who retired at a very early hour. -
Towards the close of the evening, he
sat near Mrs. Hinton, who was present,
and two or three ladies who were con-
versing.--The name of Ellen mentioned
by. one of them, attracted his attention.
" Ellen did not look like herself to-
night," was remarked by one.

"No," said another, "I never saw her
make a more indifferent. appearance.
And she was, besides, very dull while
she remained, and h'as left the room at an
unusually early hour. What can be the
matter with her ?"
"She is not very well," Mrs.-Hinton
said.
"«But even that does not account for
the want of taste and effect in her dress,
two things that are always regarded by
her."
"I think that I can explain it all," re-
plied Mrs. Hinton, smiling.
Alton listened very attentively to what
followed, although it was not intended for
his ears. lie sat near enough to hear all
that was said without making any effort
so to do--and he was too much interest-
ed to get up, and move to another part of
the room.
"Well, what is the reason ?" asked
two or three of the ladies.
" It is a very plain case,"  esumed
Mi-s. Hinton. "Most of you k ow old
Mrs. Bender. On calling to  e her a
few days ago, I found her very ill, and in
need of nourishment and attention. She
is very old, and lives entirely by herself.
In the condition that I found her, it would
have been cruel to have left her alone for
any length of time. For two nights I
remained with her myself, not wishing to
trouble any one else, and being in the
hope every day that she would get much
better. Yesterday I found myself so
much fatigued from the loss of rest, that
I was compelled to seek for some one
who would relieve me. Accordingly I
called upon several young ladies, and
asked their assistance. But some, like
Martha Green had their hands so full in
making up dresses for this evening, that
they could not possibly sit up--while
others were afraid that the- loss of a
Night's rest would entirely unfit them to
Enjoy this pleasant company. Any oth-
Ser time, one and all would have come
Forward cheerfully for the sake of _old
SMrs. Bender. With a feeling of discou-
ragement, I called in to see Ellen, and
found her busily engaged on one of the
sweetest dresses I have ever seen. It
was to have been worn this evening.

"  - "Busy, too," I remarked, as I sat
down by her side, with a feeling that my
search for a sitter-up would prove fruit-
less.
"I am busy, Mrs. Hinton," was her
reply, "but not so busy, I hope, but what
I can oblige you."
" Instinctively, it seems, had she per-
ceived, from my tone of vice, that I had
a request to make, which her heart
prompted her at once to grant, if in her
power.
"I am rather afraid, Ellen, that you
are too much engaged for what 1 wish
you to do. This beautiful dress is for
to-morrow evening, I suppose ?"
" Yes."
"And is just commenced, I see."
" Yes."
"And, of course, will keep you busy
to-night and to-morrow."
" I shall not, certainly, have much time
to spare," was her reply. "But what is
it that you wish me to do ?"
"I did wish you to sit up with old Mrs.
Bender, who is very ill."
" To-night ?"
"Yes. I have been to six or seven
young ladies, but not one can go. I have
been up for two successive nights myself,
and feel quite worn out."
"Is Mrs. Bender very ill ?" she in-
quired, in.a voice of sympathy and con-
cern.
"For a few moments Ellen sat thought-
ful, and then said, with a cheerful smile,
"I will go over to-night and sit up with
her."
"But you cannot finish this dress, and
do so," I said.
"I know that, Mrs. Hinton. But Mrs.
Bender needs my kind attentions a great
deal more than I need this dress, ,much
as I have desired to appear in it to-mor-
row evening, and much as I need a gen-
teel dress-for such an occasion. But I
had rather go with a calm consciousness
of having done mny duty, than, without
it, to appear in thie attire of a queen."
" The dear girl spoke with an earnest-
ness that made her cheek glow and her
eye brighten. I thought that I had never
seen her face wear so lovely an expres-
sion. True to her resolution, she went

i'-                  .
N. d

The Two Maidens.

.                                -   -

. __.__

,artWwr+  v                                                                                                  w+ aul4   r ,ir ,.N

..a r.;Aatd                                                                     M'S c45G i" -ASR

x;

r
t,
F
P
E
fi
(i
l
{1
4
t
1
ti'

C
.' !


I    iP   g~${a
Kf

The Secret.

over to Mrs. Bender's, and remained with
her all night.. Her dress could not, of
course, be finished, and that was not all.
An attack of sick head-ache was the con-
sequence, the effects of which upon her
appearance, you all observed to-night."
"Admirable girl !" murmured Alton to
himself, as Mrs. Hinton ceased speaking.
" How far more beautiful is a truly good,
self-sacrificing action, than all the exte-
rior graces that art can put on."
As he said this he looked up, and his
eye fell upon the belle of the evening,
Martha Green. But, like magic, faded

TgES:

A TALE FROM

r;

ARMAND D'APREMONT had entered the
navy at a very early age, and had arrived,,
although very young, to the dignity of
a captain. He had amassed a large for-
tune, in addition to his patrimonial es-
tates, and he had now come home to rest
after his -labors. As yet, however, he
was a single man, and moreover had
laughed at love.
But when he saw Nathalie, his opin-
ions underwent a change. He inquired
-" Who is that pretty woman who dan-
ces so well ?"
"That is Madame de Hautville. Is
she not handsome, captain ?"
"Oh, yes-she is perfect."
" Yes, and she has as many graces of
mind as of body. Ask her to dance in
the next set, and you will find I am
right."
"Ah ! but I do not dance."
And for the first time in his life he re

310

all her exterior loveliness as he compared
it with the moral beauty of the other.
He sought not her side again, and left the
company as soon as he could do so with
propriety.
The next evening found him at the
dwelling of Ellen, in whose every look and
tone, he now perceived a new attraction,
and in every movement a new grace.
He soon yielded his heart to the power
of virtues nuperceived and unfelt before;
virtues, whose bloom and fragrance time
nor change can steal away.
ECRET.
THE FRENCH.
grettea that he had never learned to
dance ; but he kept his eyes constantly
fixed on Nathalie.
Nathalie perceived this, although she
pretended not to take any notice of him.
"What fun it would be," said'Ast, "to
make that man fall in love with me ;
him who never speaks to a lady."
His attentions to a young widow soon
became the subject of general conversa.
tion, and several of'his friends said to
d'Apremont-t-" Take care ! Madame de
Hautville is a coquette. She will amuse
herself with you for a while, and then
cast you off."
At last, the report of Nathalie's new
conquest reached the ears of M. d'Ablain-.
court, and one evening, when lNathalie
mentioned to her uncle that, she expect-
ed the captain to spend the evening
with her, the old man grew almost angry.
" Nathalie," said he, " you act entirely

The Secret.

.:__.

41

without consulting me. I have heard that
the captain is very rude and unpolished
in his manners. To be sure I have only
seenhim standing behind your chair ;
but he has never even asked after my
health. I only speak for yours interest,
as you are giddy."_
Nathalie begged her uncle's pardon for
her inconsiderateness in acting on her
own responsibility, and even offered
not to receive the captain's visits, if
her uncle desired it, but' this he fore-
bore to require-secretly resolving .not
to allow his visits to become too fre-
quent.
But how frail are all human resolu-
tions,-overturned by the merest trifle.
In this case, the game of backgammon
was the unconscious cause of Nathalie's
becoming Madame d'Apremont.
The captain was an excellent hand
at backgammon. When the uncle heard
this, he proposed a game ; and as the cap-'
tain understood that it was important to
gain the uncle's favor, readily acceded.
This did not please Nathalie. She
preferred that he should be occupied with
herself. When all the company were
gone she turned -to her uncle, saying-
"You were right, uncle, after all.  I
do not admire the captain's manners ; 1
see now that I should not have invited
him."
"On the contrary, niece, he is a very
well behaved man. I have invited him
to, come here very often, and play back-
gammon with me-that is-to pay his
addresses to you."
Nathalie saw that the captain had gain-.
ed her uncle's heart, and she forgave him
for having been less attentive to her. He
soon came again, and, thanks to the
backgammon, increased in favor with the
uncle.
He soon captivated the heart of the
pretty widow, also. One morning, Na-
thalie came blushing to her uncle.
" The captain has asked me to marry
him. What do you advise me to do ?"
He reflected for a few moments. "If
she refuses him, d'Apremont will come
here no longer, and then no more -back-
Sgammon. But if she marries him, he
Swill be here always and I shall have my

s                                                     '44 y4f

40

G
,L ,

t'

games."  And the answer was-" You
had better marry him."
Nathalie really loved Armand; but she
would not yield so easily. She sent for
the captain.
" If you really did love me"- -
" Ah, can you doubt it ?"
" Hush ! do not interrupt me. If you
really love me, you, will give me one
proof of, it."
" Any thing you ask, I swear"-
"n No, you must not swear any more ;
and -one thing more, you must never
smoke. I -detest the smell of tobacco,
and I will not have a husband who
smokes."
Armand sighed, but answered-" I
will submit to any thing you require. 1
will smoke no longer."
The wedding was soon celebrated ;
and when they appeared, afterwards, in
the ay world, the surprise was great
thathe coquette should have married a
sailor. _ The first month of their mar-
riage passed very smoothly ; but some-
times Armand became thoughtful, restless
and grave; Nathalie, for a while, did not
notice-it.
After some time these fits of sadness
became more frequent.
" What is the matter ?" asked Natha-
lie, one day, on seeing him stamp with
impatience.-" Why are you so irrita-
ble ?"
"Nothing-nothing at all !" replied the
captain, as if ashamed of his ill-humor.
"Tell me if I have displeased you in
any thing."
The captain assured her that he had
no cause to be any thing but delighted
with her conduct on all occasions, and
for a time no angry expression escaped
him; but it soon returned. Nathalie
was distressed beyond measure. ' She
imparted her anxiety to her uncle, who
replied,
" Yes, my dear, I know what you
mean ; I have often remarked it myself
at back-gammon."
"My dear uncle, what can the matter be:
-I wish he would confide hi~ distresses
to me."
" There are some things a man cannot
confide even to his wife."

i       1
It"        4-

IL°

I
I7

I


42          Tre Scret                                 31         312The                                 ecre...

" Not even to his wife ! I should like
my husband to conceal nothing from me.
I cannot be happy otherwise."
M. d'Abraincourt-promised to endeav-
or to discover the mystery ; but he satis-
fied himself with playing back-gammon
with the captain every day.
It was now summer, and the family
left Paris for a pretty .country seat be.
longing to the captain, in the neighbor-
hood of Fountainbleau.
D'Apremont seemed very happy in
the society of his wife and' always
anxious to please, but he left her
every afternoon for about two hours,
and at his return appeared very gay and
lively.
Nevertheless, his wife was not satisfied.
She said to herself-" My husband is
certainly happier than lie used to be in
Paris ; but where can he go, every day
in that mysterious way all alone, and
without mentioning where he has been.
I shall never be happy till .1 fathom this
to the bottom."
Sometimes she-thought of following him
when he left the house, which he regu-
larly did at the same hour, sometimes
even when the house was filled with
company; but then to secure the ser-
vants in her confidence, and to act as a
spy upon one who was so habitually
kind to her-no, she could not do such a
thing !
One day, a young inan, a visitor at the
house said, laughing, to  d'Apremont,
" My fine fellow, what in the world
were you doing yesterday, disguised- as
a peasant, at the window of a cottage
about a quarter of a mile from here ? If
I had not been going so very fast, I
would have stopped my horse to enquire
if you had turned shepherd."
" My husband ! disguised as a peas-
ant !" exclaimed Nathalie, with astonish-
ment.
" Edgar is mistaken: it could not
have been me that he saw," replied Ar-
mandl, turning~ away in evident embar-
rassment.
"Not you-impossible !" replied the
young man. " Some one, then,. very
much like you."
" How was the man you-saw dressed ?

where is the cottage ?'' asked Nathalie
hurriedly.
"Oh, Madame, I do not know exactly;
I am  not well' enough acquainted. with,
this part of the coflntry to describe the"
place, but the man wore a blue ' blouse.'
But why should I have. taken him for the
captain, I cannot imagine, as we are not
yet in the carnival."
Madame d'Apremont said no more ;
but she was fully persuaded that the per-
son nientioned was her husband. But
why disguise himself. He must be en.
gaged in some very dreadful affair ; and.
Nathalie shed tears as she thought, " Oh
how unfortunate I am to' have married
a man who is so mysterious !"
She now became very anxious to re-
turn to Paris, and her husband, always
attentive to her wishes, made no objec.
tion. But, once in town, his old habits
of impatience and irritation reappeared,
and one day he said to his wife-" My
dear, an afternoon walk does me so much
good, such as I used to take in the coun-
try ; an old sailor like myself cannot
bear to sit all the evening, after dinner."
"Yes sir ! I see how it is--go !"
"Nevertheless, if you have any ob-
jection."
" Oh no ! what objection can I have?"
He, went out, and continued to do so,
day after day, at the same hour, just as
he had done in the country, and as before,
he regained his good humor.
" He loves some other woman, per-
haps," thought Nathalie, "and he must
see her every day. Oh, how wretched
I am ! I must let him know that his per-
fidy is discovered. No, I will wait till I
have some certain proof wherewith to
confront him."
And she went to seek her uncle, say.
ing-.-
" Ah ! I am the most unhappy crea-
ture in the world !"
" What is the matter ?" said the old
man, leaning back in his arm chair. -
" Armand leaves the house two hours
every evening -after dinner, and comes
back in high spirits, and as anxious to
please me as on the day of our marriage.
Oh ! uncle, I cannot bear it any longer,
if you do not assist me to discover

where he goes, I will separate myself
from him."
"But my dear niece ?"
"My dear uncle, you are so good and
obliging, grant me one favor. I am sure
there is some woman in the secret."
M. d'Ablaincourt wished to prevent a
rupture between, his niece and nephew,,
which would interfere with the quiet,
peaceful life which he had led at their
house. He pretended to follow Armand,
but came back very soon, saying he had
lost sight of him.
"But in what direction does he go ?"
" Sometimes one way and sometimes
another, but always alone ; so your sus-
picions are unfounded. Be- assured he
only walks for exercise."
But Nathalie was not to be duped in
this way. She sent for a little errand
boy, of whose intelligence she had heard
a great deal.
"M. d'Apremont goes out every eve-
ning."
"Yes, madame."
"To-morrow, you will follow him;
observe where he goes, and come and
tell me privately. Do you under-
stand?"
"Yes,,madame."
Nathalie waited impatiently for the
next day and for the hour of her hus-
band's departure. At last the time came
-the pursuit is going 'on - Nathalie
counted the moments. After three quar-
ters of an hour the messenger arrived
covered with dust.
"Well," exclaimed Nathalie, "speak;'
tell me every thing you have seen!"
" Madame, I followed M. d'Apremont,
at a distance, as far as Marias in the Rue
Ville du Temple, where he entered a
small house in an alley. There was no
servant to let him in."
"An alley! no servant ! dreadful !"
"I went directly after him, and heard
him go up stairs, and unlock a door with
a key he held in his hand."
" Opened the door himself without
knocking ! Are you sure of that ?"
" Yes, madame." .
" The wretch! So he has a key ! But
go on."                      .,
"'When the door was shut after him, I

stole -softly up the stairs and peeped
through the key-hole."
" Well,-you have twenty francs more!"
"I peeped through the key-hole and saw
him drag a box along the floor "
" A box?"
" Then he undressed himself, and.-."
" Undressed himself ?"
"'Then for a few seconds, I could not
see him, and directly he appeared again
in a sort of-grey blouse, and a cap on
his head."
" A blouse, still. What in the world
does he want with so many blouses?
well, what next ?"
"I came away then, madame, and
made haste to tell it to you; but he is
there still."
"Well, now run to the corner and get
me a hack, and direct the coachman to
the house where you have been."
While he was gone after the hack, Na-
thalie hurried on her hat and cloak, and
ran into her uncle's room, saying-
"I've found him out--he is at his mis-
tress's house now, in a grey blouse. He
had a blue one in the country  But I
will go and confound him, and then you
will never see me more."
The old man had no time to reply.
She was gone with her messenger, in the
hack. They stopped at last.
" Here is the house."
Nathalie got out, pale and trembling.
" Shall I go up stairs with you, mad-
ame ?" asked the boy.
" No, I will go alone. The third sto-
ry, is it not?"
"Yes, madame ; the, left door at the
head of the stairs."
Nathalie mounted the dark, narrow
stairs, and arrived at the door, and almost
fainting she cried-" Open the door, or
I shall die !"
The door was opened, and Nathalie
was received in her husband's arms, who
was alone, sn the room, clad in a grey
blouse, and smoking a turkish pipe.
,"19My wife ?" exclaimed Armand in
surphse.
"Yes, sir, your wife ; who, suspect-
ing your perfidy, has followed you to
discover the cause of your mysterious
conduct !"

._
I                      I

I                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ,
P            _          v
"f
k
, .w
1r              L.                                                                                                                                                                               n
,Z -                                          vAxy    ' Wt     a.,     tdnyyR4ih++k.           + r s Yf    i
.~ s           w,           "                                                                                                                                                      ; ; a+.4.w. pq,4glgCpY . i 6F ,Y .;" 'vSr)              '         'N r..r7c + 9     ^'k,.       ::             E" e     . _.,"., a+ -
.. ,. r  .,  ....... .:.mow  .y+,y ,+.... :,t+...ur ki.r;F '+mrwru.M..sr nn   t +.f +,n, o4 AL.  .  AxwnAnc  wh               "1 174                       I   dll87iw/.s.      ,.uur+                                                                                                         , ,   4 '

i
t
r
-     t-_r
'        . Yrtc    -    '-    r}t i,  -  P                       f             '                _. ,n..'          s Y  %+.. .x-4bFn.  .s,;-"_
e.: :*  +        . y~1  ' Gd    k '  .11 1 a }  tS1 R°  + ,  a d '\f ti,        xiWra , 3b° 31M '    . ti  tit

x
a
s
i
'j      y^
.. ;L

_                                         ,
4 'y      }wyft   ''IA, H         '          r te.  ,.          :'t'{}  w  ,}Li': yi"r1 ''          ',
V           i                t t.                                                               ' l

4, cy           ,         .,r4      V    y ,A.F..     ,q"RVi    r,,, y.4r "       ,.                       -       v."a.lrrw     we _                   ....t.  sv#,.v..m  v     F,   k      ""Y,'G,ldK r 'c"*v iy    m ', r'i"... ..        -..,r«" {tN'"i  I        A++-7Y.  ca r 4"

43

The Secret.

-The Secret:

312

42

311


4

The Secret.

- "_                                                                                                 _-

313

" How, Nathalie, my mysterious con-
duct?  Look, here it is !" showing his
pipe. "Before . our marriage, you for-
bade me to smoke, and I promised to
obey- you. For some months I kept the
promise'; but you remember how irrita-
ted I became. It was my pips, my be-
loved pipe, that I regretted. One day,
in the country, I discovered a little cot-
tage w ere a peasant was smoking. I
asked him if he could lend me a blouse
and a cap, for I should like to smoke
with him, but it was necessary to con-
ceal it from you, as the smell of the
smoke remaining in my clothes would
have betrayed me. It was soon settled,
between us ; .I returned thither every af-,
ternoon to indulge in my favorite occupa-
tion, and with a precaution of a cap to keep
the smoke from remaining in my hair,
I contrived to deceive you. When we
returned to Paris, I hired this little room,
at a distance from home, and here I keep
this great box, in, which I always lock
my coat before I bring out my pipe ; so
that when I return, you, may not be of-
fended at the odor. This is the mystery.
Forgive me for my disobedience, since I

have done all' I could to conceal it from
you."
Nathalie embraced-him, crying.-
"Oh, no ! I mIght have known it
could not be ! I am happy now, and
you shall smoke as much as you please,
at home. I will never make any oppo-
sition to it, and you need hide your pipe
no longer."
And Nathalie returned - to: her uncle,
saying-
" Uncle, he loves smoke! He was on-
ly smoking; but hereafter he is to smoke
at home."
"I can arrange it all," said M. d'Ab-
laincourt; "he shall smoke while he
plays backgammon. In that way," tho't
the old man, "I shall be sure of my
game every evening.".
" My dear Nathalie," said the captain,
"I will profit by your permission ; but
at the same time I will take care not to
discommode you. I will use the same pre-
caution at home as I have formerly done."
" You are so-kind! But I am so hap-
py to find that you are so faithful to me
that I think I shall even like the smell
of the smoke."

I

WHo is this distinguished-looking
young woman with her eyes drooping,
and the shadow of a dreadful shock yet
fresh upon every feature ? Who is the
elderly lady with her eyes flashing fire ?
Who i the downcast child of sixteen ?
'What     that torn paper lying at their
feet ? Who is the writer ? Whom does
the paper concern ? Ah ! if she, if the
central figure in the group-twenty-two at
the moment when she is revealed to us
-could on her happy birth-day at sweet
seventeen, have seen the image of her-
self five years onwards, just as we see it
now, would she have prayed for life
as for an absolute blessing? or would
she not have prayed to be taken from
the evil to come-to be taken away
one evening at least before this day's sun
arose ? It is true, she still wears a look
of gentle pride, and a relic of that noble
smile which belongs to her, that suffers
an' injury which many times over she
would have died sooner than    inflict.
Womanly pride refuses itself before wit-
nesses to the total prostration of the blow;
but, for all that, you may see that she
longs to be left alone, and that her tears
will flow without restraint when she is so.
This room is her pretty boudoir, in which,
till to-night-poor thing !-she has been
glad and happy. There stands her min-
iature conservatory, and there expands
'her miniature library ; as we circumnav-
 igators of literature are apt (you know)
[ to regard all female libraries in the light
t of miniature. None of these will ever
rekindle a smile on her face ; and there,

beyond, is her music, which only of all
that she possesses, will now become
dearer to her than ever; .but not, as once,
to feed a self-mocked pensiveness, or to
cheat a half visionary sadness. She will
be sad indeed. But she is one of those
that will suffer in silence. Nobody will
ever detect her failing in any point of du-
ty, or querulously seeking the support in
others which she can find for herself in
this solitary room.' Droop she will not
in the sight of men; and, for all beyond,
nobody has any-concern with that except
God. You shall hear what becomes of
her, before we take our departure; but
now let me tell you what has happened.
In the main outline I am sure you
guess. already without aid of mine, for
we leaden-eyed men, in such cases, see
nothing by comparison with you our
quick-witted sisters. That haughty-look-
ing lady with the Roman cast of features,
who must once have been strikingly
handsome-an Agrippina, even yet, in a
favorable presentation-is the younger
lady's aunt. She, it is rumored, once
sustained, in her younger days, some in-
jury of that same cruel nature which has
this- day assailed her niece, and ever
since she has worn an air of disdain, not
altogether unsupported by real dignity,
towards men. This aunt it was that tore
the letter which lies upon 'the floor. It
deserved to be torn ; and yet she that had
the best right to do so would not have
torn it. That letter was an elaborate at-
tempt on the part of an accomplished
young man to release imself from sa-

44

-- "1

THE BLIGHTED ONE.

4
f
-
4
Q
}
C

w      T
1 t                    "
ft
v     y
ft
r      r      v
it
)5 447
f       ilT
1 j
qv

5 i
pd

r
'                                             r
r             }           _             i      j                                                                ,.rwt.'tit'w w .w,: 'Jk'+.i J ,.y. ' +le M'n  f4'i M'BM'''i;  K                    av ae  ,.        , , ,  y " j, '...t.ciyNh:.         .,j+ y~d.  ,a
AMA+L kiMNA                 a        AK x M.+."ww Mk+sa FM .roWK'                                                  ..                                    "                                         CF    .                             .
rnk,            " f                                    Ari+wun, n+,Wpl1f'! l +2 M                              7                                                                                                                                8
.                     7

. 3a       aa+.  .x  w  3.k.,  kr..i E3RiepN4tlL'  R% Y't  ( "+Ff   :.+w +-;4G   ?" t .,x.j,1 k'  iF4,..:1''r -&amp; .. . ;. ."s;tig~vy'7,.ry*x;
, ,        t .


4v ThlgtdEn.TeBihe                                     n.4

cred engagements: What need was there
to argue the case of such engagements ?
Could it have been requisite with pure
female dignity to plead anything, or do
more than look an indisposition to ful-
fil them? The aunt is now moving to-
wards the door, which I am glad to see ;
and she is followed by that pale timid
girl of sixteen, a cousin, who feels
the case profoundly, but is too young
and shy to offer an intellectual sympa-
thy.
Shall we, then, after an interval of near-
ly two years has passed over the young
lady in the boudoir, look in again upon
her-? You hesitate, fair friend ; and I
myself hesitate, For in fact she also has
become a wreck: and it would grieve us
both to see her altered. At the end of
twenty-one months she retains hardly a
vestige of resemblance to the. fine young
woman we saw on that unhappy evening
with her aunt and cousin. On consider-
ation, therefore, let us do this. We will
direct our glasses to her room, at a point
of time about six weeks. further on.
Suppose this time gone; suppose her
now dressed for her grave, and placed in
her coffin. The advantage of that is-
that, though no change can restore the
ravages of the past, yet (as often is found
to happen with young persons) the ex-
pression has revived from her girlish
years. The child-like aspect has revolv-
ed, and settled back upon her features.
The wasting away of the flesh is less ap-
parent in the face'; and one might ima-
gine that, in this sweet marble counte-
nance, was seen the very same upon
which, eleven years ago, her mother's
darkening eyes had lingered to the last,
until clouds had sw llowed up the vision
of her beloved twin. Yet, if that were
in part a fancy-th t not only much of a
childlike truth and simplicity has reinsta-
ted itself in the temple of~her now repo-
sing features, but also that tranquility and
perfect peace, such as are appropriate to
eternity ; but which from the living coun-
tenance had taken their flight forever, on
that memorable evening when we looked
in upon the impassioned group--upon
the towering and denouncing aunt, the
sympathising-but silent cousin, the poor

blighted niece, and the wicked letter ly-
ing in fragments at her feet.
One only person in this world there is,
who could to-night have been a support.
ing friend to our young sufferer, and that'
is her dear loving twin-sister, who for
eighteen years read and wrote, thought
and sang, slept and breathed, with the di-
viding-door open forever between their
bed-rooms, and never once a separation
between their hearts ; but she is in a far
distant land. Who else is there at her
call ?  Except God, nobody. Her aunt
had somewhat sternly admonished her,
though still with a relenting in her eye
as she glanced aside at the expression in
her niece's face, that she must "call
pride to her assistance." Ah, true ; but
pride, though a strong ally in public, is
apt in private to turn as treacherous as
the worst of those against whom she is
invoked.' How could it be dreamed by,
a person of sense, that a brilliant young
man of merits, various, and eminent, in
spite of his baseness, to whom, for near-
ly two years, this young woman had giv-
en her whole .confiding love, might be_
dismissed from a heart like hers on the
earliest summons of pride, simply be-
cause she herself had been dismissed
from his, or seemed to have been dis-
missed, on a summons of mercenary cal-
culation ? Look ! now that she is reliev-
ed from the weight of an unconfidential'
presence, she has sat for twct hours with
her head buried in her hands. At last
she rises to look for something,  A
thought has struck her ; and, taking a
little golden key which hangs by a chain
within her bosom, she searches for some-
thing locked up amongst her few jewels.
What is it ? It is a Bible exquisitely illu-
minated, with a letter attached, by some
pretty silken artifice, to the blank leaves
at the end. This letter is a beautitul re-
cord wisely and pathetically composed,
of maternal anxiety still burning strong
in death, and yearning, when all objects
beside were fast fading from he-c eyes, af
ter one parting act of communion with
the twin darlings of her heart. Both
were thirteen years old, within a week,
or two, as on the night before her death,
they sat weeping by the side of their

mother, and hanging on her lips, now for
farewell whispers, and now, for farewell
kisses. They both knew that as her
strength had permitted during the latter
month of her life, she had thrown the
last anguish of love in her beseeching
,heart into a letter of council to them-
selves. Through this, of which each
sister had a copy, she trusted long to
converse with her orphans. -And the
last promise which she had entreated on
this evening from both, was--that in .ei-
ther of two contingencies they would re-
view her councils, and the passages to
which she pointed their attention in the
Scriptures ; namely, first, in the, event of
any calamity, that, for one sister or for
both, should overspread their paths with
total darkness ; and secondly, in the
event of life flowing in too profound a
stream of prosperity, so as to. threaten
them with an alienation of interest from
all spiritual objects.. She had not con-
cealed that, of these two extreme cases,
she would prefer for her own children
the first. And now had that case arrived
indeed, which she in spirit had desired
to meet. Nine years ago, just as the sil-
very voice of a dial in the dying lady's
bedroom was striking nine upon a sum-
mer evening, had the last visual ray
streamed from her sinking eyes upon her
orphan twins, after which, throughout
the night, she had slept away into heav-
en. Now again had come a summer
evening memorable for unhappiness ;

now again the daughter thought of those
dying lights of love which streamed at
sunset from the closing eyes of her moth-
er ; again, and just as she went back in
thought, to this image, the same silvery
voice of the dial sounded nine o'clock.
Again she remembered her mother's dy-
ing request; again her own tear-hallow-
ed promises-and with her heart in h r
mother's grave she now rose to fulfil i .
Here, then, when this solemn recurrence
to a testamentary council has ceased to
be a mere office of duty towards the de-
parted,, having taken the shape of a con-
solation for herself, let us pause.
Now, fair companion in this exploring
voyage of inquest into hidden scenes, or
forgotten scenes of human life--perhaps
'it might be instructive to direct our glas-
ses upon the false perfidious lover. It
might. But do not let us do so. We
might like him better, or pity him more,
than either of us would desire. His
name and memory have long since droop-
ed out of everybody's thoughts. Of
prosperity, and (what is more important)
of internal peace, he is reputed to have
had no gleam from the moment when he
betrayed his faith, and in one day threw
away the jewel of good conscience, and
"a pearl richer than all his tribe." But,
however that may be, it is certain that,
finally; he became a wreck ; and of any
hopeless wreck it is painful to talk.-.
much more so, when through him others
also became wrecks.

I

i
r
z
d                                        i
4
c
1
f
-Ij
k  + *
1  -Ago,

...
. _...--

rfb                                                                w.+-i      ,.  . +',.SyG                                               +                     ''        . .       '.^Y.                        'gewrd;j, ;'J tyv, y«pC VS+,^iw
,ti.                              ).   ~+«btAS,+n W' h+'Kv                             :hrar., :rs.b~" - ,r 1rurtk+N .                                                                                                               .                      L  t          f                                                     _                  '

"                    r
s
Y
a
-                t                  9
ILI

4
a    1
F.

The Blighted One.

46

315 316

The Blighted One.

47

y,


Q
t
ti
i
i°
,
"

TO     LAURA,
WITH HER PORTRAIT AND CHARACTER.

THE SPANISH HEADSMAN.

o thou, the fairest of the fair, the tribute now I bring
Is on the golden harp of praise, thy beauties bright to sing;
Deign, lady fair, to list the lay of lyre that hath so long
In silence slumber'd, waked again by sorrow's child of song.        THE town clock of Menda had tolled
0, in thy-large and melting eye there is a light of love          the hour of midnight, when a young
With which no eye can ere compare, save angel's eye above;        French officer, leaning on the wall of an
It speaks without a tongue, and hath a language of its. own,      extensive terrace, which  formed the
Far sweeter than the laughing lip may tell in melting tone.       bounds of the gardens of the chateau
And yet I would not from thy lip of rich and rosy hue,           {appeared lost in reflection, and absorbed
Rob one brightsmile, or lovely grace, or nectar'd drop of dew;   in deeper contemplation than generally
For on that smiling lip I've seen the graces often play           accompanies the gay thoughtlessness of
And hung upon its silvered tones that sweetly died away.          a military life: although, undoubtedly,
Nor would I from thy forehead fair withhold the ,eed of praise    place, season, and all by which he was
Where oft thy lofty soul is seen clad in its own bright rays;-    surrounded, were most propitious to
Like some snow-mantled mount beneath the fair Italia's slies,     meditation. It was one of the clear and
Where lightnings flash, yet all below one beauteous summer lies cloudless mghts of Spam; the twikling
0, thou art wild and giddy, yet thou hast the power to beof the stars, and the moons pale and
All thoat wlve ind wo n, yt tu grat th pee  partial beams, threw a soft light on the
All that we love mi woman, or im gravity or glee ; -' rich and romantic valley in which, at a
In thy young brilliant soul there is capacity to shinerihndro              tic neat , inws siatd a
In.all that's bright and beauteous here, and all that is divine-h.dhe     feet beneath  tow ofuMed
that s diinethe small but handsome town of Menda,
Within thy bosom virtue dwells, that stern and lovely pride,      skirting the base of a rock, which shel-
That dares e'en death, prefer'd to woes'that hope and heav'n divide-  'tered its inhabitants from the north wind,
That gives to woman all those charms so blissful here to scan,    and on the summit whereof was placed
Without which beauty is but shame, and love a curse to man.       the vast and antique chateau; and thence
Within thy pure and gentle heart that knows the art to feel,      the waters of the Atlantic, extending far
The sweetest passion lives, that thou'rt too timid to reveal;     on either side, might be fully descried.
Ay, there love lives, in ambush sly, and only peeps from eyes     The chateau of Menda, however, afford-
That spread a sunshine on thesoul, and make a paradise.         .5ed a contrast to the calm  and silence of
Yes, Laura, thou art all that man might wish to rpake him blest   the scene around it. From its numerous
A generous soul, a feeling heart, and pure and guileless breast;'  casements blazed forth a profusion of
A reind too bright for one so fair, for one so young refined      light; the lively clamour of the cheerful
Thou art what I would wish should be the race of womankind.       dance, the sounds of mirthful music, and
Adieu, thou bright and beauteous one, perhaps we neet no more,    the joyous voices of the assembly, often
But memory oft shall bring to mind the hours that now are o'er; -   migled with, and oftener overpowered,
And oft in fancy's musing mood and silent midnight's dreams ,the noise of the more distant waves dash-
Thou shalt again be with me, and thy bright eye on me beam.        in against the shore.  The refreshing
g  y  n meeam.coolness of the night, succeeding a day
Adieu, and if no more we meet on life's eventful shore,            of extraordinary heat, with the delicious
0, may we meet in Heav'n above, where parting is no more:         perfume of trees and flowers by which
But not till i the gloomy grave my head shall rest at last,        he was surrounded, in restoring him from
Shall I forget thee, or shall fade the memory of the past        jthe severe fatigue whici the military du-
MIFORD     BARDt

I ties of the morning occasioned, had long
detained the young soldier in that de-
lightful spot, and induced him to forego
the social enjoyments which the interior
of the mansion afforded.
. The chateau.itself belonged to a Span-
ish grandee of the first rank ; who, with
f his family, now resided there. Of his
two daughters, the eldest was particularly
handsome; and had, during the evening,
greatly attracted the admiration of the
l French officer, whose notice had evident-
ly not been disregarded by the fair Span-
iard: but, whenever she addressed him,
there was, mixed up with her looks and
tones of kindness, so singular an expres-
sion of seeming sorrow and compassion,
that, haply the impression it had made
on him, had led him to withdraw from
the society, and induced his deep and
lengthened reverie. Notwithstanding she
was one of five children, the-great wealth
of the Marquis justified the .idea that
Clara would be richly endowed: but
Victor Marchand could scarcely bring
himself to hope that, in any event, the
daughter of one of the proudest and most
powerful nobles in all Spain, would even
be permitted to regard, with more than
ordinary civility, the son of a Parisian
grocer.
The French were hated: and General
G'*t *r, the commandant of the province,
having had strong reason to suspect that
the Marquis de Leganes contemplated an
insurrection of the inhabitants of that
and the surrounding country, in favor of
Ferdinand the Seventh, the battalion com-
I manded by Victor Marchand had been

'VwA

I

[FROM THE GARRET.]

I

:.lI d ^,
'  ,I  I
p}    j

G4=_-
, nr
'             t4
4f
}
Tt
p   r
f      I.
1      !
1 ,
0 7
YI.
1'

"R ^t  .+.,                                                                                   +.t1y c+ W+Mrva +nlV+ t^^ a+-w,....wr. wytra-                         ; A K+'  j                                       ,               'r
r       ',$f4p      y s,?sv  i.y.y v  ,{w~rave.u. i-. yn      i ,++^

..'               '~%

.
}
; , s
a
.-
n
'_
P                                         F, ,

.
: ?


The Spanish Headsman.

The Spanish Headsman.

sent to garrison Menda ; and to overaweV than adequate nocturnal police rounds like silence reigned around for a moment;
its inhabitants and the people of the! which he had organized?  He was re.ind then were heard, but for an instant,
neighboring towns. and. villages, who! solved to fathom the mystery : and at glistant.and heart-piercing groans, as of a
were at the disposal and under the influ- once,, and with all the impetuosity of   hort conflicting agony: the report of a
ence of the Marquis. Indeed, a recent youth, he was in the act of scaling the cannon boomed along the surface of the
despatch of Marshal Ney had even com- terrace wall, to reach, by a direct and ra- ocean. Cold drops burst from the fore-
municated the probability of the English pid descent of the rock, the corps-de. head of the officer. He was there alone,
attempting a landing on the coast, and of garde stationed at the entrance of the ,unarmed, unfriended. His soldiers had
the Marquis being in active correspon- town, on the side of the chateau,.when a ;all-all perished. He felt himself a de-
dence with the, cabinet of London. So slight movement near him, resembling 'graded and dishonored being ; he would
that, notwithstanding the welcome and the light step of a female on the sanded-;be dragged before a council of war, a
hospitality evinced by the Marquis to alley of the garden, induced him to pause, prisoner, and in chains: all who could
himself and his comrades, Victor Mar- He looked around him anxiously for some vindicate his zeal and prudence were. of
chand never relaxed in the adoption of moments, but without success. Again hejanother world. With a keen and rapid
every precaution that prudence could sug- raised himself to observe, and he became glance he scanned the depth below; and
gest. In 'pacing the garden terrace, and fixed and motionless with surprise, as his eaping on the terrace walk, was on the
.casting a keen and watchful glance from strained sight dwelt on some distant ob. point of casting himself into theabyss,
time to time to ascertain the state of the ject ; for, clear and distinct as the moon when the slight shriek and convulsive
town, of which his position gave him a in heaven, he beheld a fleet of ships rid. "grasp of some one by his side restrained
distinct and general view ; or in listening ing upon the- waters and nearing the .him.
occasionally to whatever sounds arose land. He was casting in his mind, with "Fly! Oh Fly !" whispered Clara,
from the valley below, in which it lay, the utmost rapidity of thought, the mea" almost breathless from agitation ; "my
he strove vainly to reconcile to his mind, sures lie must instantly pursue, when his brothers follow me--descend the rock,
the open and almost unreserved friend- reflections were interrupted by a hoarse, quickly-without delay-there -that
ship the Marquis had displayed towards low voice, proceeding from a breach in" way-below you will find Juanito's
him, and the peace and tranquillity of the the wall, at some paces distant, above 5 horse--begone---haste-haste----"
country itself, with the doubts and 'fears which a human head projected. He She urged him onward with all her
expressed by his general,--when his cu- hastened to the spot, and ascertained it strength. Lost and confused, the young
riosity ivas suddenly awakened, and-his to be the orderly who was in attendance  man gazed on her for a moment; but
suspicions aroused by new and some- upon him at the chateau.              quickly yielding to the instinct of self-
what unaccountable circumstances. In-  " Is it you, Colonel ?"            preservation, which rarely deserts us, he
numerable lights, at" one and the same  " It is !"                       leaped into the park, and rushed onwards
instant, were to be seen moving in the town " The beggars, below there, Sir, are;4 in the direction pointed out to him. The
below: the hum of many voices simul- twisting about like so many worms. I steps of persons in pursuit were heard,
taneously heard, where all had been for have been upon the watch, and hastened danger animated him to speed: he hasti-
so many hours darkness and repose. Al- to make my report'to you."       1 ly scrambled down the rocks, by paths
though it was the feast of Sant' Jago, "Speak !", said Victor Marchand. never bfmvotrodden but by goats. A
he had issued, that very morning, severe  "Seeing a man leave the chateau pri-  shower ofmusket-balls whistled by him:
and peremptory orders, that everywhere, vily, with a lantern, I resolved to follow   but, with almost inconceivable rapidity,
(with the excption of the chateau) fire him; for a lantern, at this hour, looked a he 'gained the valley. The horse was
and light should he extinguished at the suspicious, so I stuck close to him, as he 4 there. le bounded on his back, and dis-
hour appointed by the military regula- crept thitherwards: ard on a platform 4 appeared.
tions. Again he looked, and more in- of rock, there, where my finger points,) A few hours brought him to the head
tently: and certainly could distinguish Sir, I saw him approach an enormous u a quarters of General G**tr, who was at
the glittering of muskets and biyonets at pile of faggots; when--"        breakfast with his staff: and he was in-
several of the posts where his sentinels  A tremendous shout rose from the town  stantly admitted into the command's
were stationed. The light were yet beneath. A wide and sudden blaze of    presence.
seen; but-a solemn silence no succeeded light broke forth near him, produced by " I come to resign myself to death,"
&amp;to the noise, which was w oily distinct the firing 'of straw and dry wood: and,~ exclaimed the Colonel, as he stood before
*from that which might be supposed to ac-. at the same instant, the grenadier he had the General, pale and haggard.
company the observance of a festival of been talking with, received a ball in his. " Sit down, Sir, and when you are
the church. Whence could proceed so skull, and fell dead upon the spot. more composed I will listen to you ;"
general and extraordinary an infraction The cheerful sounds within the cha- and the stern severity of his countenance,
of military orders, in despite of the more teau walls were hushed at once. A death which truly indicated his well known

harsh unyielding character, somewhat
abated as he witnessed the emotion of
his visiter. As soon as he was able,
Victor told his horrible tale': and the
downcast looks and deep silence of his
auditors were the only, but expressive,
comment on his history.
"It appears to me, Sir," at length said
the General, calmly, "that you, are more
unfortunate than criminal; you can hard-
ly be deemed responsible for the guilt of
the Spaniards; and if the Marshal decide
not otherwise, I shall not hesitate to ac-
quit you."  These words afforded ut
feeble consolation to Victor, who falte -
ingly demanded, "But when the Emp -
ror learns the report, Sir ?"  "It is not
impossible he may order you to be shot,"
observed the General, in a tone of indif-
ference: " but of that hereafter," he add-
ed, rising and assuming his more bitter
expression of tone and feature. "Let
us now only think of vengeance-ven-
geance, deep, deep and terrible. on these
Spaniards."
In a short hour, an entire regiment,
with detachments of cavalry and artillery,
were on their march; at the head of which
rode the General and Victor. The troops,
informed of the massacre of their com-
rades, pressed onwards with unrelenting
activity, actuated by feelings of hate and
fury. The villages through which their
road lay were already up in arms: but
they were soon reduced to obedience, and
in all of them each tenth man was told
off and shot.
By some -unaccountable fatality, the
English fleet remained lying to and inac-
tive, without even communicating with
the shore : so that the town of Menda
was surrounded by the French troops
without the slightest show of resistance
on the part of its inhabitants: who, dis-
appointed in 'the succor on which they
had relied, offered to surrender at discre-
tion. Such as were more -immediately
implicated in the massacre of the garri-
son, justly pressuring that, for their act,
the town would be delivered up to flames,
andl the entire population put to death, by
an effort of courage and self-devotion, not
unfrequent in the war of the Peninsula,
offered to become their proper accusers.

50

r
La
3
4
1;
i
f
4_  ;  .

51

'I
I

k 4T
3
}s
i
i
7
L

].

+-=- ^^'

...
a+...iw .r..,+ri+                                                                         -

4'.

-t ;y ,
i  _'
r


.R
*     I, 4
r -

52                     The Spanish Headsman.

This unexpected and extraordinary pro-
position was acceded to by the General;
and he engaged to accord a pardon to the
rest of the inhabitants, and prevent the
town being fired or pillaged by the in-
censed soldiery. But, at the same time
he levied an enormous contribution on'
the people; for the payment of which,
within twenty-four hours, he commanded
that the principal and wealthiest resi-
dences should be given as hostages into
his hands; and inflexibly decreed that
-all the persons appertaining to the cha-
teau, from the Marquis to his lowest val-
et, should be placed, unconditionally, in
his power.
Having seen his soldiers encamped,
and taken all due precautions for their
safety against a sudden attack, the Gene-
ral proceeded to the chateau, of which
he immediately assumed military posses-
sion. The respective members, with the
domesticsof the family of Leganses, were
found with cords, and the ball-room as-
signed them as a prison, the casements
whereof opened upon the terrace: while
the General and his staff occupied an
adjoining suit of rooms, where a council
was holden, to adopt all necessary mea-
sures in the event of an attempted disem-
barkation by the British. Orders were
given for the erection of batteries, on the
coasts, and dispatches sent off to the
Marshal..
The two hundred Spaniards who had
acknowledged themselves as the authors
of the massacre, and resigned themselves
into the General's power, were drawn up
on the terrace of the chateau, and shot !
without a single exception. As soon as
their execution had terruinated, General
G**t-r ordered the erection of as many
gallows as there were prisoners in the
ball-room, on the same spot; directing,
moreover, that the hangman of the town
should be summoned.
Victor Marchand profited by the in-
terval in the work of death, which the
execution of the General's orders requir-
ed, to visit the unhappy prisoners; and
a few minutes only elapsed before he
again presented himself to his command-
ing officer. " I presume, Sir, he said,"
with much emotion, "to implore your

The Spanish Ileadsman.                   53

/

'consideration in behalf of the condemned Ystood with their arms tied behind theirs
family." "You!" observed the Gene.   backs, mute and motionless, their looks
ral, with a sneer.-" Alas, Sir, it is a sor. turned on their superiors, as if to derive
rowful indulgence they solicit.  The .a lesson ofcourage or resignation from
Marquis, in observing the preparations  their bearing. At times a hasty excla-
for the approaching execution, trusts that nation disturbed the silence, attesting the
you will deign to change the mode of 8 regret of some bolder spirits, at having
pus ishment; and that such as are of no. failed in their enterprise. The soldiers
ble blood may suffer by decapitation."  who guarded them were stern and silent,
"  ranted," was the laconic reply. " He  as if respecting the misfortunes of their
also hopes you will allow him to have  enemies;. and Victor shuddered as he
the aid of religion; and in tendering his looked upon the mournful spectacle of
solemn engagement not to indulge in -the their distress, where but so lately joy
thought of escape, he prays that he and  and gaiety presided; and compared their
his may be freed from their bonds." "Be  afflicted statg with the gaudy trappings
it so," said the General: "you being re- which yet adorned the walls, as-in mock-
sponsible'for the consequences.  What ery of the dreadful doom   which they
further would you ?" he added, sternly  were sentenced in a few minutes to un-
and impatiently, seeing the Colonel yet dergo.
linger and hesitate to speak.---" He pre. Ordering the soldiers to loose the bonds
sumes, Sir, to render you all his wealth  of the others, he hastened to the release
--his entire fortune,-so that his young. of Clara; and while every eye was turn-
est son might be spared."  'Indeed,"   ed towards him with intense interest, he
said the General; "it is no extraordina. freed her beautifully moulded arms from
ry exertion of generosity, as his proper. the cords. Even in that moment of sor-
ty is already at the disposal of King Jo.  row, he could not but admire the loveli-
seph. But," he continued, after some   ness of the Spanish girl, her perfect form
moments of reflection, while-an indescri. --her raven hair--her long, dark eye-
bable expression of savage triumph light. lashes--and an eye too -brilliant to be
ed up his features--"I perceive all the  gazed on,.suffused as it was with tears of
importance attached to his last request,  anguish or indignation. "Have you suc-
and shall even go beyond it. Let him   needed ?" she whispered, as he bent over
then purchase the continuance of his; her; and her look strove to penetrate his
name and family, that it may exist,a ne- ilnmost thoughts. An involuntary groan
morial of his treason and its penalty.  was Victor's sole reply ; and to avoid her
But it shall be on my terms; mark me,--  ardent gaze, lie threw a wild and piteous
I leave his fortune free, and grant like  look upon her brothers and her parents,
pardon to such one of his sons as shall --and again on her. The eldest son, Ju-
assume the office of executioner. I have  anito, was about thirty years of age, short
said it,--begone ! and let me hear no  of stature, and scarcely well formed, but
more of him   or his."  The General    these defects were redeemed by a coun-
turned from Victor towards the chateau,[ tenance eminently Spanish, proud, fierce,
where dinner for himself and staff had  and disdainful, teeming with all his coun-
been just served; leaving the Colonel[ -try's gallantry. Filippo, the second, was
thunderstruck. ,                       about twenty years of age, and bore an
His brother officers eagerly hastened Iextraordinary resemblance toClara. Raf-
to satisfy an appetite provoked by fatigue, Lfaele, the youngest, was eight years old ;
but he hadno thought but for the wretch. a mild and passive -creature, with nmuch
ed prisoners ; and summoning resolution of patience or endurance in his gentle
again to meet them, he\ slowly entered features. The venerable countenance ofj
the ball-room, where the father and mo.~ the aged Marquis, and his silver hair,
ther, their three sons and two daughters, offered a study worthy of Murillo. As
sate bound to their -rich and gilded chairs; he contemplated the mournful group,
while the eight servants of the house Victor knew not how to announce the
4

General's determination.  Compliance
with it was surely out of the question;
and why should the cup of grief, already
full, be unnecessarilyovercharged ? The
entreaties of Clara, however, overcame
him ;-her face wore the hue of death as
she listened, but she struggled violently
with her feelings, and assuming a com-
paratively calun and tranquil air, she
arose and placed herself solemnly on her
knees at her father's feet.-" Oh, Sire !-
Father !" she'exclaimed; and as all
leaned forward in breathless- attention,
her accents fell clear and distinct around,
as earth upon the coffih-lid. "Command
--command Juanito to swear by all his
hopes of mercy hereafter, that he will
now obey your orders, whatever they
may be, to their fullest extent, and we
shall yet be happy." The mother trem-
bled from joy and hope, eagerly, as unob-
served she bent forward to participate in
the communication her daughter whis-
pered in her- father's ears. She heard,
and fell fainting to the earth. Juanito
himself seemed evidently aware of its
intent; for he writhed from rage and hor-
ror.
Victor now commanded the guards to
quit the room, the Marquis renewing his
promise of unconditional' submission.
They accordingly retired, leading away
the domestics, who, as they issued forth,
were- delivered over, one by one, to the
public executioner, and successively put
to death.
Thus relieved from painful intrusion,
the old man arose--" Juanito !" said he,
sternly. The son, aware of his father's
intention, only replied by an inclination
of the head, indicative of a decided re-
fusal. He then sank into a chair, while
his wild, fixed, and haggard look rested
upon his parent. "Come, come, Juani-
to ; dearest brother !" said Clara, in an
encouraging and cheerful tone, as she
playfully placed herself upon his knee,
the other hand fondly removing the hair
from his burning forehead, which she af-
fectionately kissed. "If you knew, my
Juanito, my own kind brother, how wel-
come death would be, if given at your
hand. Think, Juanito, my loved, loved,
Juanito! that I shall thus escape the odi-

p  :r

I

I
I

SI

IO

t '
' I '

i
t#
3
't .
1
z
,F
0                            s
s
,C
S
i
Ali
rx. t
8

'

The Spanish Headsman.

53

,

'.,
}
a
}

,3

: '
.,-
,,}4
,j.
' ;,        n k;  Y                                         r fr)5          ""t " dci.-yx      paa.  nmvists-
'   '.


54                    The Spanish Headsman.

t
,
r
,
3'
a,

ous touch , o the public executioner.
You, you will id my sufferings: and so
shall we thwart the triumph of   ."
Her dark eye turned from Juanito full on
Victor, as if to awaken in her brother's
bosom all his hatred for the French.
" Be a man, brother. Summon all
your courage!" said Filippo: "Let not
our name perish, and by your fault."
Clara arose; while all made way for
the Marquis, who addressed his son.
"It is my will-I command you, Juani-
to."  The young Count moved not, stir-
red not; and his father fell at his feet.
Raffaele, Filippo, and their sisters did the
same, stretching forth their supplicating
hands towards him, who alone could
save their name from forgetfulness and
extinction, while the Marquis, on his
knees, continued, "My son, my Juanito,
prove yourself a Spaniard. Show the
stern resolve, the noble feeling of a
Spaniard. Let -not your father thus
kneel in vain before you. What are-
your  sufferings  compared with the
honor of those you love-those who
so truly love you ? Let not your own
sorrows prevail against your father's
prayer. Would I not die for you, were
it required of me ? Live then for us. Let
not the hand of infamy insult my hoary
head.-Is he our son, Madam ?" indig-
nantly exclaimed the Marquis, addressing
his wife as he arose, while Juanito, with
a fixed and horrid stare, sate deadlike;
the distended muscles of his livid front,
seeming less the traits of mortal man
than those of chiseled marble. "He
yields, he yields," shrieked forth the mo-
ther, in accents of triumph and despair.
" He consents," she cried, as she marked
a slight movement of his brow, which
she only could understand as implying
the hard and cruel obedience of her
child.
The almoner of the chateau entering,
he was instantly surrounded by the fami-
ly, who led him towards Juanito, while
Victor, no longer able to endure the scene,
madesign to Clara of his intention, and
rushed from the room to make one last
effort with the General. Him he found
in one of his milder moods, cheerfully
conversing with his officers, while he

partook of the delicious wines the cellars
of the chateau afforded.
An hour afterwards, and one hundred
of the principal inhabitants of Menda
were assembled, by the General's orders,
on the terrace, to witness the execution
of the family of Leganes. They were
arranged beneath the line of gallows, on
which hung the bodies of the Marquis's
domestics; and a strong military guard
preserved order. At about thirty paces
distant,. a block had been prepared, on
which a large and naked scimetar was
laid; while the executioner stood near to
act, in the event of Juanito's refusal.
r The dead silence which prevailed was
interrupted by the sound of many foot-
steps; the slow and measured tread of
the soldiery, and the clattering of arms,
drowned, at times, by the loud laugh of
the officers over their wine. So had the
dance and music, bit shortly since, been
mingled with the expiring groans of the
French garrison.: All eyes were now di-
rected towards the chateau, and the seve-
ral members of the Leganes family ap-
proached, with firm unshrinking step,
and countenances patient, calm, and se-
rene-save one.    He, pale, wan and
heartstricken, leant upon the priest, who
unceasigly urged every argument of re-
ligion, to sustain and console the wretch-
ed being who was alone condemned to
live. The Marquis, his wife, and their
four children, took their places at some
paces distant from the block, and knelt.
Juanito was led forward by the priest,
and having reached the fatal spot, the
public executioner advanced and whisper-
ed him, haply imparting some necessary
instructions in his dreadful mystery.
The confessor would. have arranged the
victims so as to avoid, as far as possible,
a view of the work of death; but they
were Spaniards, and evinced no symp-
torus of fear.
Clara now darted forwards to her bro-
ther. " Juanito!I" she exclaimed, "you
nmst have pity on my weakness. I am
a sad, sad coward.-Begin with me."
iA hasty step was heard approaching-
iwas Victor. Clara was kneeling by
the block, and her white ne$? already
bared to the scimetar. The otler shud-

55

and my mother's blood !" A cry of hor-
ror burst from all around. The baccha-
nalian orgies within the castle were at
once ended.
The Marchioness, sensible that the
strength and courage of her son had fled,
cast one glance, and one only, at the
scene at her feet;- and then, aged as she
was, leaped the terrace balustrade, and
disappeared. As she fell upon the rocks
beneath, the reeking instrument of death
dropped from the hand of Juanito. His
eyes flashed an almost maniac fire. A
low gurgling sound, like a death-greeting,
broke from his- livid lips,.--life seemed
to forsake his limbs--and he sunk sense-
less upon the ground, beside the beloved
beings who had fallen by his hand.
S  *    *    *    *     *

dered, but rushed forward,-" Your life
is. spared, Clara. The General pardon
you, if you consent-to-to be mine.'
The Spanish lady looked on him fo
an instant; g proud, disdainful glance of
withering scorn, "Quick, quick, Juanito,"
she murmured in a hurried hollow voice,
as she turned, and her head rolled at Vic-
tor's feet.
As the first dull blow of the heavy
scimetar was heard, for one moment the
mother's whole frame moved convulsive-
ly. It was the first and only sign of
weakness exhibited.
*    * -*       *    *
" Am I well so--my good-good Ju-
anito ?" said the little Raffaele.
"You weep, my Marquirita, my sis-
ter," and, verily, the voice of Juanito
seemed as a voice from the tomb, as
again he lifted the scimetar.
"It is for you, dear brother," she an-
swered.   "Poor, poor Juanito !--you
will be without us all, alone, and so un-
happy."
*    *     *    *    *     *
The tall commanding figure of the
Marquis now approached. He looked
on his children's blood, and then turning
towards the assembled Spaniards, and.
stretching forth his arms over Juanito,
exclaimed in a loud and resolute tone of
voice,-"Spaniards, hear me ! A father's
blessing I give unto my son ; may it
ever rest on and with him ! His is the
post of duty. Now, Marquis of Le'ga-
ne's, strike firm and surely, for thou art
without reproach !"
But when Juanito saw his mother ap-
proach, supported by the confessor-the
scimetar struck heavily against the earth,
as he shrieked in bitterest agony-" Mo-
ther !-God !-God! It is too much-
She bore-she nourished me. Blood !

',_

'+4Y'                                            ~        ~

*    *    *   * *    *    *
Notwithstanding the unlimited respect
and high honors accorded by his sove-
reign to the Marquis de L6ganes--not-
withstanding the title of ElVerdugo, by
which his ancient and noble name has
been rendered yet more illustrious, the
Marquis now lives an almost heart-broken
and solitary man. The birth of an heir
to his name and fortune (an event which,
unhappily, deprived her who bore him
of existence,) had been impatiently await-
ed by him, and as his son :aw the light,
the father felt that it was now his privi-
lege, in Heaven's own time, to join that
troop of shadows, that are ever with him
and around him. With these, in his long
hours of solitude, he holds strange dis-
course: and if he ever smile, it is when
he points out his sleeping boy to those.
unseen beings-unseen by all save him-
self-and swears by its innocent head,
and by the generations yet unborn, an
eternal enmity to France and her chi-
dren.

The Spanish Headsman.

I

VFI
Iz
I

'11
5~-

i
i

r
e
S
r

r
a
S
L
ILyr

t

t

i

a

'.,.yi..""a. as h  "+-".., r.,r ins-, s}aTF:.. ,+,,,,,    '' °" yr-,                         """ ° tk "        !!yrn,. ^tV  :r"+-...r,         +- .         ..,.u,


BRING FLOWERS.

THE LEGEND OF -ROSE ROCHE.

BY MRS. HEMANS.

BY THE AUTHOR OF

"STORIES OF. WATERLOO."

BRING flowers, young flowers for the festal board,
To wreathe the cup ere the wine is pour'd:
Bring flowers! they are springing in woodland vale,
Their breath floats out on the southern gale,
And the touch of the sunbeam hath waked the rose,
To deck the hall where the bright wine flows.
Bring flowers to strew in the conqueror's path,
He hath shaken thrones with his stormy wrath !
He comes with the spoils of nations back ;
The vines lie crush'd in his chariot's track;
The turf looks red where he won the day-
Bring flowers to die in the conqueror's way !
Bring flowers to the captive's lonely cell,
They have tales of the joyous wood to tell;
Of the free blue streams, and the glowing sky ;
And the bright world shut from his languid eye.
They will bear him a thought of the sunny hours,
And a dream of his youth--bring him flowers, wild flowers.
Bring flowers, fresh flowers, for the bride t6 wear !
They were born to blush in her shining hair.
She is leaving the home of her childish mirth ;
She hath bid farewell to her father's hearth;
Her place is now by another's side-b
Bring flowers for the locks of the fair young bride !
Bring flowers, pale flowers, o'er the bier to shed
A crown for the brow of the early dead !
For this through its leaves hath the white rose burst ;
For this-in the woods was the violet nurst.
Though they smile in vain for-what once was ours,,
They are love's last gift-bring yp flowers, pale flowers.
Bring flowers to the shrine where we kneel in prayer ;
They are nature's offering, their place is there!
They speak of hope to the fainting heart;
With a voice of promise they come and part.
They sleep in dust through the wintry hours ;
They break forth in glory.--bring flowers, bring flowers.
56

AT sixteen Rose-Roche was the loveli-
est maid in Ulster. In infancy she was
found exposed at the Gate of the Ursu-
lines, and her beauty and destitution re-
commended her to the charity of the sis-
terhood. Educated accordingly, for a
conventual life, she had never passed
the boundary of the garden walls, and
accident discovered the existence of beau-
ty, which else had faded unseen and tin-
admired within those cloisters, to which
from childhood it had been devoted.
Cormac More, Lord of Iveaugh, was
the patron and protector of the communi-
ty at Balleek. At primes and vespers a
mass was celebrated for his soul's weal.
His Easter-offering was ten beeves and
five casks of Bordeaux wine ; and on the,
last Christmas visit he presented six sil-
ver candlesticks to the altar of Our Lady.
No wonder this powerful chief was held
in high honour by the' sisterhood of St.
Ursula.
One tempestuous night in October,
wearied with hunting, and separated from
his followers by darkness and the storm,
Cormack More found himself beneath
the walls of the convent of Balleek.
Approaching the gate, he wound his horn
loudly, and begged for shelter and refresh-
ment.. Proud of this opportunity of af-
fording hospitality to so noble and muni-
7 ficent a protector, the wicket was unbar-
red, the Lord of Iveaugh admitted, and
v received in honourable state by the Lady
i Superior, and inducted with due form in-
to the parlour of the Ursulines.

There a plentiful repast was speedily
prepared, and the tired hunter was cere-
moniously seated at the table. His morn-
ing meal had been dispatched before the
sun had topped Slieve Gallion, and a long
day's exercise had given him a keen rel-
ish for the evening banquet. . The Lady
Abbess feasted the patron of her house
right nobly-he was attended on assidu-
ously by the novices-dish after dish
succeeded in luxurious variety, until the
chief requested the tables to be drawn,
and with knightly courtesy entreated per-
mission to pledge the holy mother of the
Ursulines in a deep draught of Rhenish
wine.
Then for the first time, the novice who
presented the cup, attracted the good
knight's attention. ThQ folds of her
thick veil could not conceal the matchless
symmetry of her form; and as she filled
the chalice from the flagon,' the exquisite
proportions of her hand and arm struck
Cormac More with wonder. At this mo-
ment her drapery became entangled with
the jewelled pommel of the Knight's ra-
pier; a hasty attempt to disengage it was
unsuccessful--the veil fell, and disclosed
to the enraptured view of the Lord of Ive-
augh the loveliest features he had ever
seen.  Covered with   blushes, which
heightened her surpassing beauty, the
novice caught her veil hastily up and re-
tired from the parlour, while the Knight,
despite the evident displeasure that the
accident had caused the Lady Abbess,
gazed after 'the retiring girl until she dis-
57

.

q.' sty k -,

Lj  r
;t,{
r,
-',fi
t
".
,, ,

I
A
41

1~J

t

'f
S
v
'{
,

^'f
F      f,
i

,,
1

'Aly
-py                                                                      .g      -         -  z       "       y    4     f:    t gar       e1  St7nikr4i '"f^ icf" S    {r 1  G'1.        sta. i*. 4 rf.      'k.  .l.I Y'  cr   " e1,  /pyykt a           :r     ;.,a.+,+.-.t fi :. r.
"      r r1  ?xi-0M            +i, ,S i ;    . r Yiw-   iFA' ar!    ,-iiSrn       .esr^.  "   :.n     M$ j ,.a  r  _'  a,  ,.       'r.          Y   P.Fi4 :,   )/  (      ,' "  'Ry jt}"4 aM1   tniV _              _,  ' r .. _ _       T  4' 7r, %R 7°               ' .J  :  .-                   "
'           i  k                                                          \: j.   .'_ V     p KfIt      Y}ll '4: 1y lY x'   1.    a44 ya  iM: :.,.M:dAG",      tVwf. G+tAvsM M 1  FY'i 4w 'l..t     b S i, wr r0.', J. As J. R' .r:+eix'.         .i


The Legend of Rose Roche.

appeared among the cloisters.   In vai
the proud Superior introduced costib

in
er

wines of rare and ancient vintages ; in;
vain she enlarged upon the piety- of her'
order, and enumerated.the number of the
Ursulines who had been canonized; the
Knight's whole thoughts were engrossed
'with one lovely object--his courtesy and
converse were feeble and constrained, un-
til, piqued by his neglect, the Abbess
wished him a fair repose, and retired in
full state from the apartment, preceded
by crucifix and taper, and followed by
her attendant nuns.
Although the Knight lay on the Bish-
op's bed, and occupied that honored cham-
ber where none of a less degree than a
mitred abbot had hitherto been permitted
to repose, no slumber sealed his lids, nor
was the' beautiful novice for a moment
absent from his thoughts. - Cormac More
had declined many a splendid alliance ;
the Lord of Offaly proffered him an only
sister, with a princely dower; and O'Nial
himself courted him for a son-in-law, and
promised him the barony of Orier, and
Blanche, his fairest daughter. But till
now, Cormac had never loved: the beau-
teous cup-bearer seemed to him a being
of another world; the more he dwelt
upon her image, the more his passion
was excited; alliances with lords and
princes were overlooked, disparity of rank
and fortune was forgotten, and, ere the
morning sun ad lighted the storied win-
dowof the Bislop's chamber, the Knight'st
determination was formed, and matins 1
were scarcely over when he demanded
an audience of the Lady Abbess.     i
Never was there greater surprise than f
that, with which the holy Mother heard
Cormac More express his passion for the
novice of the Ursulines. - Joy sparkled
in her eyes as the noble Lord of Iveaughc
confided the secret of his love, entreated t
her powerful intercession, and begged force
her sanction to "his nuptials. - As- Rose r
was still unprofessed, there existed no f
spiritual barrier to her marriage. Flat- r
tered by the high honor conferred upon o
her house by the proudest Baron of the
Pale selecting a bridle from the holy sis- i.
terhood, the Superior willingly acceded b
to his request ; his offers were accepted, a

i
I
1
c
c
t
r

and ere the vesper bell had tolled, the
preliminaries were completed, and the
fair novice had consented to become the
bride of Cormac More.
But, alas ! the wild ardor of the.good
Knight, and the carnal motives of the
Abbess, caused both to neglect consulting
another personage, namely, the blessed
Ursula herself, in thus disposing-of one
devoted to her service from the cradle;
and the saint felt the oversight. That
night the Abbess was tormented with
fearful and portentous dreams ; the Lord
of Iveaugh tossed restlessly upon the Bish-
op's bed ; and if the novice closed an
eye, her slumbers were broken with
strange and incoherent visions. In vain
next day, the Knight hunted from sunrise
to curfew-his hounds were eternally at
fault, and his followers appeared besotted
or bewitched ; the deer, when pressed to
the utmost, vanished on a bare moor-and
knight, squire, and, yeoman, unanimously
agreed that the several parties interested
in the chase, were under the immediate
influence of the Prince of Darkness.
Nor did the holy Superior of the Ur-
sulines fare better than the persecuted
Knight and his afflicted companions.
Every thing about the convent went
astray, and the culinary preparations for
entertaining the Lord of Iveaugh were
awfuIlly interrupted by accident and for-
getfulness. The sister who presided
over the pastry, and whose conserves,
throughout a long and blameless life, had
been pronounced-unique and irreproach-
able, now actually omitted the necessary
ingredients ; the soup, when uncovered
for a second, was invaded with such a,
discharge of soot, as reduced it, in color
at least, to an equality with the broth of
Sparta. The nun at the organ, instead
of a "jubilate" struck up a "nunc dimit-
is ;" the very bells were "jangled out
of tune"--and the Lady Abbess was hor-
ified by a succession of prodigies that,
~rom her noviciate to her promotion, had
ever before visited the quiet residence
~f the sisterhood of Saint Ursula.
What were the nocturnal visitations
inflicted upon the lovely novice, have not
een exactly handed down. One thing
lone is certain. She visited the Lady

Abbess with the first dawn, and in her
maternal bosom the bride elect deposited
the causes of her sorrow.
In thisperplexity, the Knight and the
a Superior held secret counsel in the-par-
lor of the convent, and long and difficult
was the conference. The result was,
that Cormac More vowed a golden cha-
lice to the offended virgin; and the Ab-
bess, not to be outdone in liberality,
agreed to double ayes and credos for a-
fortnight. But with Rose Roche herself
the chief difficulty was found to lie. "A11
measures proposed by the holy mother
were inefficacious ; and, in this desperate
dilemma, it was deemed advisable to add
to the number of counsellors, and the
Prior of the Dominicans was summoned
to the assistance of the conclave.
To that holy man the exigencies of the
respective parties were intrusted. The
Prior was sorely disturbed with doubts,
but after a night's deliberation, during
which he discussed a capon single hand.,
ed, and fortified his stomach with a sec-
ond stoop of Rhenish wine, he decided
that the Lord of Iveaugh should add a
flagon to the chalice-the Abbess double
her penitentiaries for a month-and Rose
Roche undergo a private penance, which
he, the Prior, should communicate to the
lady alone.
Never had such an alarming predica-
ment a happier termination ! The Knight
had scarcely laid himself upon the Bish-
op's bed, until a sweet and refreshing
slumber, blessed, with the happiest vis-
ions, sealed his eyes ; the Lady Abbess
slept like a watchman ; and since she
had first gathered wild flowers in the con-
vent garden, never did the fair novice en-
joy more delightful dreams.
At last the bridal day arrived. The
Lord of Iveaugh was attended by a splen-
did following. The bells rang out a joy-
Sous peal, and the 6leve of the Ursulines
Left the home of her youth, escorted by
Three hundred horsemen, the consort of
Sthe proudest Baron of the Pale. No
'lover could be more gallant than the noble
Husband of Rose Roche. Fete succeeded
fete, and feasting continued in the castle
of Cormac More, from Michaelnas till
'Advent. '

-                                                                                                                                   ! is
-                    -                                                                                                 i
Y.                                                                                                                   }"   c
-
f       {    "f_"          , .{ ~a         1 * «             t S '    s   t y ;y'._t  arq  t   s  y.   ' r    ..  W      si4          i      #    #  ry!i.  "a ', 4. r :,eW  h3 -       tla:
i   s, a_  "!      1    xf    si ri.: Yti  .,r is u of   Rio-.. .',M -FM^ r    ,' e i RFt  .,X " ".:  v :i   tr'~  , s'W.  x .  s  L'.i#,';i    ,.l., a*;, y7 :  .  a  r  ' i    r4,r'             -   &amp; 1.                  l  i e,#.,1
                                _              r                         e

A Iv

Months passed away, and honey-
moons can not be expected to last for
ever. Cormac More by-degrees resumed
his hunting, and again involved himself
in the endless feuds and warfare of those
restless times; and-Rose Roche was oft-
en deserted for the chase or the field.
She still was passionately loved, but in
the bosom of a martial Baron other and
sterner feelings held a predominance. It
is true that the young bride bore these
frequent absences with wonderful resig-
nation; and page and tire-woman confess-
ed in secret, that Dhu Castle was gayer
and merrier when Cormac and his stern
companions were away.
A year wore on. The Lord of Iveaugh
was pensive and thoughtful; a cloud would
often gather on his brow, and his bearing
to his beautiful wife became chilling and,
repulsive. It transpired that two circum-
stances occasioned his anxiety. His lady
wore a curious-fashioned coif, which con-
cealed her tressesas effectually as if she
never laid aside her night-cap ; and the
cherished hope of an heir to his ancient
line now faded in the heart 'of Cormac
More. Dhu Castle became duller and
more gloomy-the fair Baroness was
more and more deserted-the chase and
banquet were preferred by the moody
Knight to soft dalliance in his "lady's
bower,'' and any pretext was gladly re-
sorted to, which offered an excuse for
being absent from his joyless home.
Gentlewomen, in these perilous days,
required and possessed an astonishing
portion of philosophy. No Baron's lady
"in the Pale" submitted to a frequent
separation from her lord, with more laud-
able submission than Rose Roche. The
customary resource of " wives bereaved,"
appeared any thing but consolatory to the
dame. She determined to avoid crying,
as being an unchristian waste of beauty
..-.-and instead of -useless lamentations,
she wisely substituted mirth and mini-
strelsy.
There was not a more accomplished
hard in Ulster than Connor O'Cahan,
and for seventy years he had resided
with the Lords of Iveaugh. No tale or
tradition connected with this puissant
race was unknown to this gifted minstrel;

14

Li

y
fn
3
;r
i .
{t
t
S
2
i
.'1

.F kr
_                                                                                                                                  § y    f ,
f         [f  i6  Si W  i.~F 4 °"^L 4r ]Sf!'F4n                   a 4 1        .N ,Y 1Y" Yd   ,i   Y             ,              y                                                                                                -    irk}
L                   ,                                    l.a Diu: p:, Xd.h   i ^ 'k-. " , ',.       .,1 w.,.,  "y !a; "..am Y n"M'a.,         }    r                                               Yy~

lit
if

,.
k
3.
1
X
Y
r
.          r
b

y
'               --   ^ ,
14g T"l r'''s .41 -e+r" .  w         i       .A

58

The Legend of Rose Roche.

59


j r'
i ,
T                            4 l
k
Y
r . ,,;.;. ,

ii'

60                    The Legend of Rose Roche.

The Legend of Rose Roche..

yet by some strange infirmity of taste
young Rose preferred the light romance
of her Lord's English page, to all the 1
gendary lore of the gray-haired harper
and listened with more delight to a men
roundelay from Edwin's lute, than to th
deeds of Cormac's grandfather, as s
out in song by Connor O'Cahan. TI
bard, it is, true, was blind, and the pag
had the-blackest eyes imaginable.
This unhappy predilection was nc
concealed from her Lord. His jealous
instantly took fire, and. the handsome
page was suddenly removed,,and non
knew whither. The absence of an hei
had now become matter for serious com
plaint; it was whispered among the Ba]
on's followers, that there was no caus
for hope, and maliciously insinuated
moreover, that the close coif adopted b;
the dame, was worn to conceal some na
tural deformity. Cormac, a slave to sus
picion, and instigated by his rude com
panions, insisted that the hood should b
discarded, or that Rose Roche should re
tire in disgrace to the convent front
whence she came.
On the alternative being proposed, th
Lady proved positive, and the coif wa
peremptorily retained. Cormac, irritates
by opposition to his commands, was ob
stinate in his determination, and Ros
Roche left the castle of her lord a repu
diated wife, and once more returned to
the convent of the Ursulines.
From the hour of their separation, the
Baron seldom smiled. To part from his
wife was a trifle; but unluckily he had
embroiled himself with the church. The
Abbess espoused the lady's quarrel fierce
ly, and ave and credo were no longer of
fered up for Cormac More ! Notwith
standing past largess, beeves and wine-
butts were forgotten; the caidle-sticks
upon the altar no longer elicited a prayer;
and his soul's health was no more attend-
ed to by the community, than the lowest
horse-boys of his train..
Thus matters stood; when one dark
evening, returning from the chase, Cor-
mac and his. followers were surprised by
a bandi of Catterans, and a fierce and
desperate skirmish ensued. The outlaws
were defeated, but the Lord of Iveaugh

I~

te, was shot clean, through tlge body with a
es three-foot arrow; and how could he have
e- better luck ?
r ;  Then it was that the sinful Knight was
ry tortured with remorse and unavailing sor-
e row. He cursed the evil counsellors who
et tempted him to insult Saint Ursula and
e her adopted daughter, and determining to
e be reconciled to his wife and the church
together, directed his followers to carry
ot him to the Abbey of Balleek. His or-
y ders were obeyed, and the Lady Abbess
e consented to admit the dying noble. He
te was laid before the altar, and his injured
ir wife, forgetting past resentment, was the
1- first to rush from her cell, andminister
r- to his relief. In the fatal emergency,
e coif and veil were left behind; her raven
1, tresses fell below  her shoulders, and
y reached to her very waist, and Cormac
1- was convinced, too late, that his ill-used
consort had the finest hair in Christen-
- dom. Alas ! those ebon locks had been
e the admiration of the whole sisterhood--
and for penitential purposes, the Domi-
n nican had enjoined their concealment for
three years, when he gave spiritual coun-
e sel, in their hour of tribulation, to the
s Abbess, the Baron, and Rose Roche.
d   To make atonement for his former un-
- kindness, he willed his rich domains to
e his beautiful widow. The Prior of the
- Dominicans indited the deed, which dis-
posed of:his possessions ; and the church,
of course, was not forgotten. Surround-
ed by all the emblems of religion, and
with. a splinter of the true, cross in his
I right hand, the penitent Baron breathed
his last. He lay for three days and
- nights in the chancel, in great state; and
was interred on the fourth morning, with
- all the ceremonies that both Ursulines
- and Dominicans could bestow.
The days of mourning passed over:
Rose Roche exercised her resignation;
and Dhu Castle became a different place
to what it had been during the latter days
of the defunct Baron, and mirth and mu-
sic were exchanged for the rude revelry
of Cormac More. Her hail was filled
with guests; at the board she (lid the
honors nobly ; and when she visited the
green wood, with her gold-belled hawks
and gallant retinue, she looked as if she

iad been ennobled from the Conquest,'
,and in her bearing and attire, seemed
N'every inch a queen."
i  But amidst all this splendor and mag-
1niflcenee, poor Rose had her own secret
-causes of inquietude. Beauty accompa-
1ied by broad lands, could not but induce
sailors without lumber to come forward,
hand never was woman, not excepting
.Penelope herself, more vigorously be-
?sieged. From past experience, Rose
dwas not ambitious to exchange wealth
land liberty for becoming the wife of some
:doughty Baron, who would probably un-
dervalue her charms, just as much as he
I would over-estimate his' own great con-
descension in giving her his name. A
tender recollection of one, long since lost,
would cross her mind occasionally, and
in her solitary hours the black-eyed page
haunted her imagination. Accordingly
she eschewed all offers for her hand, with
excellent discretion. Few were offended,
she managed her rejections so prudently ;
4and through the first year of widowhood,
neither land nor liberty were lost.
The consort of the wise Ulysses her-
,self could not have held out forever.
Rose was severely pressed; for finding
' themselves foiled by her ready wit and
good discretion when they attacked her
singly, her lovers, fromnenecessity, agreed
to coalesce, and determined that one
should be accepted, and, the remainder be
pledged to support the acquired rights of
the fortunate candidate, as report said
King Henry had resolved to gift a favor-
ite noble with the person and estates of
the beautiful widow.
This agreement of her suitors was po-'
litely but decisively intimated to Rose
Roche, and the Prior declared, " by the
' vestment," that to evade matrimony lon-
ger was impossible. "She had," the
' holy man said, "an ample list to choose
Sfromr; there were eleven suitors in the
~neighborhood, besides the ' Big Man of
the West,' for so the Thane of Con-
~naught was entitled."
~jIn thisextremity the lady resolved to
exercise, at least, the privilege of free
1 choice. The Prior was directed to en-
gross a bond, by which the respective
i candidates for her hand bound themselves

to grant an uncontrolled right of selec-
tion to the widow, and covenanted, more-
over, neither to molest, or permit her to
be molested, when her choice was made.
The deed was duly executed-the day
for her decision was named-and a rea-
sonable time allowed for " the Big Man
of the West" to attend and try his for-
tune.
O'Connor was surprised when the de-
termination of the widow was communi-
cated. He had only time for a hurried
preparation, as his rivals, from their vi-
cinity to the lady, had never taken the
remoter situation of the " Big Man" into
their consideration, when they named the
day. O'Connor, however, was no slug-
gard ; he collected his "following" with
all haste, and every department was com-
plete, when, alas, the chief harper fell
sick without -a cause, and no other was
procurable for a distance of sixty miles.
In this dilemma a Saxon youth, who, two
years since, had been shipwrecked- be-
neath the castle walls, was recollected.
He could not, it is true, "strike the bold
harp," but he had a sweet and mellow
voice, and his skill upon the lute was ad-
mirable. In wood-craft he was a thorough
proficient, and with lance and brand had
more than once proved himself a man.
O'Connor had no alternative, and the
stranger was selected to fill the place that
"Cathwold O'Connor of the harp" should;
have more worthily occupied.
Although the Thane of Connaught and
his gallant company pushed forward with
all the speed that man and horse could
make, from bad roads and flooded rivers,
they were unable to reach the heights
above Dhu Castle until the sun of the
eventful day had set. In vain knight and
squire pressed on their jaded steeds-
evening fell; all the- candidates'besides
had been in the hall for hours, and, as
"the Big Man" had not appeared, ac-
cording to modern parlance he was voted
present by the company, and the banquet
was served. Never with such a heavy
heart did Rose Roche assume the place
of honor. Though her hall was lighted-
splendidly, and her table crowded with
the proudest nobles within "the Pale"--
though rich wvine flowed, and the most

afaxs~i~ts  ,;l, ,y~Mie~e~  at+ m+  ,ian~cri   c *w d.tr ;,;i '2    4,,,:..kt                I;      ',

61

'4
"
Ii q
I }
F  b
s  +
A s
S" ]

-"-"-"..

Is
t

I

S
4      f  '
i
,        - i.
,L

r


G
Y
5
J
i
f

62                     The Legend of Rose Roche.

The Legend of Rose Roche.

skilful harpers in the province poured
forth their lays of love and war-yet one
heart was heedless of gaiety and grandeur;
and that one was her's on whom every
eye was bent, in deep expectancy await-
ing her decision.
The curfew rang-and -in another hour
the happy Lord of Dhu Castle would be
proclaimed. As the moments flew, the
beautiful widow became paler and more
dejected; and breasts which had never
quailed amid the roar of battle, now
throbbed as nervously as a maiden's,
when she listens to the first 4ale of love.
The harps were mute, the revel became
less loud, for all were deeply interested
in that event which a brief space must
determine. At this embarrassing moment,
a loud blast was heard at the grand gate,
and the seneschal rushed in, to announce
the arrival of the Thane of Connaught,-
attended by a noble following of, at least,
one hundred horse.
The sudden and opportune appearance
of him of the West, seemed to affect the
company variously. His rivals heard the
news with mingled feelings of jealousy
and alarm, which was in no ways abated
when the number of his attendants was
announced, which exceeded that of their
united followings. Rose Roche felt a
secret pleasure at his coming; not that
her sentiments towards O'Connor were
more favorable than to her suitors gene-
rally, but his late arrival must-.necessarily
occasion some delay, and postpone,
though but for a brief space, that dreaded
moment when she. should surrender a
hand, without a heart, to her future lord.
While O'Connor, as the greatest stran
ger, was placed beside the lady of Dhu
Castle, his bard stood behind his master,
and his train bestowed themselves where
they could best find room. As Rose
Roche looked carefully around to see that
the band were fitly, accommodated, her
eyes met those of the young minstrel:-
the blood rushed to her brow ; for ex-
cepting those of her own loved page, she
never looked upon a pair so black and
sparkling as the stranger' .
When the Trhane of Connaught had
feasted to his heart's content, the Prior
of the Dominicans produced the parch-

ment, to which his rivals had affixed their
signatures already.  The "Big Man"
listened attentively as the monk read it.
"'Tis all fair," he added, as he placed
his sign manual to the deed, "that the;
lady should choose her lord ; and thus I"
bind myself, faithfully to abide the intents!
of this parchment." Then turning to
Rose Roche, he thus proceeded: "It
grieves me that through accident I have
unwittingly occasioned some delay; there-
fore, in pity to my gallant competitors, I
beg you, lady, to terminate their suspense,
and declare to this noble company the
happy object of your choice-nay, blanchi
not so, fair dame," for t  lady became
pallid as the white marb  of a warrior's',"
tomb; "exercise your own pleasure lei-
surely; and while I pledge thy matchless
beauty in a cup of muscadine, Aylhner,
my bard, shall sing a Saxon roundelay."
As he spoke, O'Connor signed to the,
minstrel, who, rising at his lord's bid-.
ding, struck with a rapid hand the pre-.
lude of a light romance, which, with aj
tremulous, but powerful voice, he thus
gave words to:
"Ladye, farewell !-the fatal hour
Has sped, for thus thy tyrant wills,
When he, who loves thee, leaves this tower,
Deserts gay hall and woodland bower
Of her, for whom his heart's pulse thrills;
And thou art she-Ladye--sweet Ladye."
When the minstrel touched the pre-
lude, Rose Roche became visibly affect-
ed ;ut when the words fell from  his~
lips, a burning blush dyed her cheek and
brow, and her heart throbbed almost t6
bursting. Alas, it was the very rounde-
lay the poor page had sung beneath her
casement on that melancholy night when
her defunct lord had expelled him from
the castle !-
She turned hastily round to see who
the strange youth might be, who thus re-
called her absent love in look and voice
so forcibly. Blessed Ursula ! it was he,
the long lost page. The minstrel,.as he
caught her eyes, suddenly ceased his
melody-the lute fell from his nerveless
grasp, and, oee      by feelings that
could not be controlle eJr sank upon the
bench behind him. It was, indeed, young

$ylmer. The well remembered features
;ould never be forgotten, although the
.oy had ripened into manhood--the thick
down upon the lip had changed to a dark
;noustache-and the belt which once held
hunting blade, supported now a goodly
brand.
The strange effect of the melody upon
the lady, and the minstrel's sudden indis-
Aposition, could not escape remark ; a
startling suspicion flashed across the
,minds of the company, and after a pain-
ful silence of some minutes, Hubert de
Moore rose from his seat, and bowing to
the very table, thus addressed the lady of
1 the castle:
" Wilt thou forgive the humblest but
most devoted of -thy suitors, if he pre-
sume to remind you that the hour has
long since passed when your election
should have been made?  Far be it from
me, noble dame, to seem importunate; but
suspense is irksome to those that love,
and I and my brother nobles pray you to
signify your pleasure, and end uncertain-
ty at once."
While De Moore was speaking, Rose
Roche appeared to recover her self-pos-
session wonderfully ; her eye brightened,
her color came again, and the compres-
sion of her lips proved that she was nerv-
ing herself for some determined effort.
She rose slowly and gracefully, while a
dead silence pervaded the hall; faint and
tremulous as her first words were, they
were distinctly heard by those remotest
from the dais.*
" Noble lords," she said, " I own and
thank your courtesy: I ask; this holy
churchman if I am to exercise free choice
in this affair, unshackled with bar, or con-
dition, save my own pleasure ; and if he
whom I shall place here," and she point-
ed to the vacant seat beside her own,
which had been reserved for the success-
ful wooer, "shall be supported in all the
rights and properties which he shall ob-
tain through me?"
"All this," said the Prior, "is fairly
stipulated in the intents of this scroll."
"Then will I not trespass on your pa-
tience, noble lords,-there stands the oh-
*The place of honor in a Baronial hall.

ject of my choice ; and thus I instal him
in this seat, as Lord and Master of Dhu
Castle?"
She turned to the astonished minstrel
as she spoke, and ere her words were
ended, the youth was seated at her side.
A scene of wonder and wild confusion
followed--most of the Barons protested
loudly against her choice ; angry looks
and threatening gestures were directed at
the minstrel, and more than one sword
was half unsheathed. O'Connor seemed,,
thunderstruck-and the lady herself was
the most collected of the company.
" How is this, Sir Knights ?" she cri-
ed. " Is lordly word and written pledge
so lightly held among you, that thus ye
violate their sanctity? .Thane of Con-
naught," she continued, as she addressed"
herself to the ' Big Man,' "thy faith was
never questioned, and thy word is held
to be sacred as a martyr's vow. When
the English King, under. pain of confis-
cation, ordered thee to deliver the stran-
ger up, whom thou hadst resetted-al-
though five hundred marks were put upon
his head, what was thy.-answer ? 'The
lands may go, but plighted faith must
stand.' The ink with which you bound*
yourself to the conditions of yonder
bond, is not yet dry upon the parchment,
and wilt thou break thy word?"
"It is a trick," cried De Moore.
"'The selection rests with ourselves
alone," exclaimed Mandeville.
"We will never brook that page or
minstrel should hold the lands and castles
of Cormac More," said both togeth r; and
they laid their hands upon their s ords;
the attendants followed the example of
their lords, and a scene of violence and
discord was about immediately to ensue.
O'Connor slowly rose-he waved his
hand to command silence, and his wishes
were promptly obeyed.
"Trhis is, indleed,an unexpected choice,"
he said: "'Sir Prior, read the parchment
aloud, that all may hear, and read it care-
fully, line after line, and syllable by syl-
lable; see that a letter be not omitted."
The monk obeyed. " The document is
,a plain one," said the 'Big Man,' " and
by it, the lady has gooa right to choose
whom she listeth for her consort. Lady

63

J f
4 "

!1f
I
I
f
a

I

-   '
;,
,ti    5.
,
;

{
s   ;   "
f'
,,
"
,i.
k
t  s
,   f
,
;
r    ;

*1

'                                          s  ,     .1y,    Yr  "'  r,4,;  I  . , ,  ,t. s'
'  f   _ t  "s  , r   r.w  k,.,t,  ,  .          '. a'-" ; r'.,~r  1.'*°  a

}yY  '              IMri Y                                                -          1

"v' ;,.; r ..i  "+  fl.v".. g   ~c  - p .;  ,^ «pj  . - ,.-  r ; r-  .

f
s
'  -s  i
,}

" ..                               -      '°

ref,
Y
TT:T


-
Q
.j
A
1
1
i
1
1',
y
k , M'.
"+

64                         Legendary Ballad.
of Iveaugh," he continued, as he turned unity?  The sword that conferred  th
to the blushing widow, "is this youth the honor, is ready and able to maintain it !"
husband of thy choice?"-"He and none 'And O'Connor, as he ended, flung belt
besides, so help me saints and angels !" and rapier on the table.
was the solemn answer. "Then by (ny But none seemed disposed to quarrel
father's ashes, and a knight's word, that ;with him; and gradually they followed
never yet was questioned, thou, Aylmer his example, and admitted the lady's
Mowbray, shalt this night- possess thy right of choice. The mirth and feasting
bride ! And why, my lords, chale you were resumed; and each, after reasoning
so at this ?" for the storm was again with himself, finding that the chances of
about to burst forth :"Is it because the success were greatly against him, became
monk was but a sorry lawyer, and the reconciled to lose the lady and her lands.
lady took advantage of a loose parch- Before midnight struck, the Prior per-
ment which should have bound her bet- formed the marriage ceremony; and while
ter?  Is it that the Lord of Dh Castle O'Connor bestowed the beauteous bride,
was once a page ?   What was thy an- De Moore himself attended upon the for-
cestor, De Moore, (I mean not to offend tunate minstrel.
thee,) but usher to the Lord Justice? and  Nor did Sir Aylmer Mowbray disap
thine, Mandeville, but chamber-groom to point his patron's expectation. His lute
Strongbow?   Aylmer, I love thee too was sweetest in the bower, his plume
well to envy thee thy good fortune ;--thy was foremost in the field. He held the
lute has won the lady--thy lance must possessions he gained by his lady against
keep her lands. Kneel down, minstrel every claimant; sons and daughters bless.
no longer-rise up, mine own knight ban- ed his bed, and transmitted his titles and
neret?  And now, Lords of the Pale, estates to posterity; and thus more than
Henry himself could not confer a nobler one powerful house traces its lineage back
dignity; for- O'Connor's knight is stan- to an "ileve" of the Ursulines, and the
dard-bearer to the King of Connaught! black-eyed Page.
Does any here gainsay his rank and dig-
LEGENDARY BALLAD.
BY MR. MOORE.
TILE   MAGIC MIRROR.

'Come, if thy magic glass have power
To call up forms we sigh to see;
Show me my love in that rosy bower,
Where last she pledged her troth to me."
The wizard showed his lady bright,
Where lone and pale in her bower she lay ;
" True hearted maid," saidthe happy knight,
"She's thinking of one who's far away."
But lo! a page, with looks of joy,
Brings tidings to the lady's ear,
"'Tis," said the knight, " the same bright boy
Who used to guide me to my dear."
The lady, now, from her favorite tree,
Hath, smiling, pluck'd a rosy flower;
" Such," he exclaimed, " was the gift that she
Each morning sent me.from that bower !"
Ehe gives her page that blooming rose,
With looks that say, "Like lightning fly !"

"Thus," thought the knight, "she soothes her
woes,
By fancying still her true love nigh !"
But the page returns, and--oh ! what a sight
For a true lover's eye to see ;
Leads to that bower another knight,
As gay, and, alas ! as loved as he!
"Such," quoth the youth, "is woman's love !"
Then darting forth with furious bound,
Dash'd at the mirror his iron glove,
And strewed it all in fragments round.
MORAL.
Such ill would neverhhave come to pass,
Had he ne'er sought that fatal view;
The wizard still would have kept his glass,
And the knight still thought his lady true.

BY CHARLES LAMB.

ON the noon of the 14th of November, Prince of Wales. She would have done
1743 or 4, 1 forget which it was, just as the elder child in Morton's pathetic after-
the clock had struck one, Barbara S--, piece to the life ; but as yet the ",Chil-
with her accustomed punctuality, ascend- dren in the Wood" was not.
ed the long rambling staircase, with awk- Long after this little girl was grown an
ward interposed landing-places, which aged woman, I have seen some of these
led to the office, or rather a sort of box small parts, each making two or three
with a desk in it, whereat sat the then pages at most, copied out in the rudest
Treasurer of (what few of our readers hand of the then prompter, who doubtless
may remember,) the Old Bath Theatre. transcribed a little more carefully and
All over the island it was the custom, and fairly for the grown-up tragedy ladies of
remains so I believe to this day, for the the establishment. But such as they
players to receive their weekly stipend were, blotted and scrawled, as for a child's
on the Saturday. It was not much that use, she kept them all; and in the zenith
Barbara had to claim.               of her after reputation it was a delightful
This little maid had just entered her sight to behold them bound up in the
eleventh year; but her important station costliest morocco, each single-each small
at the theatre, as it seemed to her, with part making a book-with fine clasps,
the benefits which she felt to accrue from gilt-splashed,. &amp;c. She had conscien-
her pious application of her small earn- tiously kept them as they had been de-
ings, had given an air of womanhood to livered to her; not a blot had been effaced
her steps and to her behavior. You would or tampered with. They were precious
have taken her to have been at least five to her fer their affecting remembrancings.
years older.                        They were her principia, her rudiments;
Till latterly she had merely been em- the elementary atoms; the little steps by
ployed in choruses, or where children which she pressed forward to perfection.
were wanted to fill up the scene. But "What," she would say, "could Indian
the manager, observing a diligence and Rubber, or a pumice stone, have done
adroitness in her above her age, had for for these darlings ?"
some few months past intrusted to her I am in no hurry to begin my story-
the performance of whole parts. You indeed I have little or one to tell-so I
may guess the self consequence of the will just mention an observation of hers
promoted Barbara.   She had already connected with that interesting time.
drawn tears in young Arthur; had ral-  Not long before she died I had been
lied Richard with infantine petulance in discoursing with her on the quantity of
the Duke of York ; and in her turn had real present emotion which a great tragic
rebuked that petulance when she was performer experiences during acting. I
65

tokL
=r _
i '
fY+{{+
t
l
=a
i
1

j;

/,

;
_
i
Y
:
'
f
,
,
"
.:
. ,,
n
lY
3
_aa
St
'
n
f
i
7
i
t
t      r
5
:( 4_
+r ,
",';
; ,

{

k            .
i 1
_ 4        f .,
to
",vys }3     '

zx                                                                    e
r                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ,
lc                       v          ...+.    ...          ;x.. '+:.s4p' F"    i        ..xsr , y.  3tk 7W.d+s..aiT .a-" i sai +n v',....:r   :e q'     ,:ut . H:..:^17rt..,.n :i.1rww.+-Y:- .a r.,{aE  s
-  ?                                                 ,if                    f-.,'.  r , , ., iw  sws^    ...;.wss    ad'hd.3r ,u i                   '""     .         ,     -               x '

t              s r
Aik


66B-br-

ventured to think, that though in the first
instance such players must have possess-
ed the feelings which they so powerfully
called up in others, yet by frequent repe-
tition those feelings must become dead-
ened in a great measure, and the perform-
er trust to the menmtory of past emotion,
rather than express a present one. She
indignantly repelled the notion, that with
a truly great tragedian the operation, by
which such effects-were produced upon
an audience, could ever degrade itself into
what was purely mechanical. With much
delicacy, avoiding to instance in her se/-
experience, she told me, that so long ago
as when she used to play the part of the
Little Son to Mrs. Porter's. Isabella, (I
think it was) when that impressive ac-
tress has been bending over her in some
heart-rending colloquy, she has felt real
hot tears come trickling from her, which
(to use her powerful expression) have
perfectly scalded her back.
I am not quite so sure that it was Mrs.
Porter ; but'it was some great actress of
that day. The name is indifferent ; but
the fact of the scalding tears I most dis-
tinctly remember.
I was always fond of the society of
players, and am not sure that an impedi-
ment in my speech (which certainly kept
me out of the pulpit) even more than
certain personal disqualifications, which
are often got over in that profession, did
not prevent me at one time of life-from
adopting it. I have had the honor (I
must ever call it) once to have been ad-
mitted to the tea-table of Miss Kelly.
I have played at serious whist with Mr.
Liston. I have chatted with ever good-
humored Mrs. Charles Kemble. I have
conversed as friend to friend with her ac-
complished husband, I have been'in-
dulged with a classical conference with
Macready ; and with a sight of the player-
picture gallery, at Mr. Matthews's, when
the kind owner, to remunerate me for my
love of the old actors (whom lie loves
so much) went over it with me, supply-
ing to his capital collection, what alone
the artist could not give them-voice ;
and their living motion. Old tones, half-
faded, of Dodd and Parsons, and Badde-
ley, have lived again for me at his bidding.
Only Edwin he could not restore to me,.

I have supped with.-

but I am grow-

ing a coxcomb.
As I was about to say-at the desk of
the then treasurer of the Old Bath Thea-
tre-not Diamond's-presented herself
the little Barbara S-.
The parents of Barb ira had been in
reputable circumstances.  The father
had practised, I believe, as an apothecary
in the town. But his practice, from
causes which I feel my own infirmity too
sensibly that way to arraign-or perhaps
from that pure infelicity which accompa-
nies some people in their walk through
life, andch it is impossible to lay at
the do r of imprudence-was now re-
duced to nothing. They were in fact in
the very teeth of starvation, when the
manager, who knew and respected them
in better days, took the little Barbara into
his company.
At the period I commenced with, her
slender 'earnings were the sole support
of the family, including two younger sis-
ters. I must throw a veil over some mor-
tifying circumstances. Enough to -say,
that her Saturday's pittance was the only
chance of a Sunday's (generally their
only) meal of meat.
One thing I will only mention, that in
some child's part, where in her theatri-
cal character she was to sup off a roast
fowl (0 joy to Barbara !) some comic
actor, who was for the night caterer for
this dainty-in the misguided humor of
his part, threw over the dish such a quan-
tity of salt (0 grief and pain of heart to,
Barbara!) that when he crammed a por,
tion of it into her mouth, she was obliged
sputteringly to reject it; and with shame
of her ill-acted part, and pain of real ap-
petite at missing such a dainty, her little
heart sobbed almost to breaking, till a
flood of tears, which the well-fed spec-
tators were totally unable to comprehend,.
mercifully relieved her.
This was the little starved, meritorious
maid, who stood before old Ravenscroft,
the treasurer, for her Saturday's pay-
ment.
Ravenscroft was a man, I have heard
many old theatrical people beside hierself
say, of all men least calculated for a
treasurer. He had no head for accounts,
paid away at random, kept scarce any

66

indispensable for her mother to provide 'knew her.

1                                                                                                                                                                           I
S             1

Barbara ._ S

Barbara S-------67
summing up at the week's end, for her, with hard straining and pinching
books, and sumn.   pa      e               efa'     tc    n   huh     o
ifhe found himself a pound or so deficient, from the family stock, and thought how
blest himself that it was no worse.  glad she should be to cover their poor feet
Now Barbara's weekly stipend was a with the same-and how then they could
bare half guinea.-By mistake he popped accompany her to rehearsals, which they
into her hand a- whole one.          had hitherto been precluded from doing,
Barbara tripped away.             by reason of their unfashionable attire,-
She was entirely unconscious at first in these thoughts she reached the landing
of the mistake ; God knows, Ravenscroft place'- thesecond  I mean from  the
would never have discovered it. top-for there was still another to tra-
But when she hd got down to the first verse.
of those uncouth landing-places, she be-  Now virtue support Barbara!ien  did step
came sensible of an unusual weight of  And that never-fap
metal pressing her little hand.      in-for at that moment a strength not her
Now mark the dilemma.              own, I have heard her say, was revealed
She was by nature a good child. From to her-a reason above reasoning--and
her parents and those about her she without her own agency, as it seemed
had imbibed   no  contrary influence. (for she never felt her feet to move) she
But then they had taught her nothing. foud herself strnsportjustbac itthen
Poor men's smoky cabins are not al- individual desk sle had just quitted, and
ways porticoes of moral phosop       her hand in the old hand of Ravenscroft,
This little maid had no instinct to evil,  n silence took back the refunded
but then she might be said to have no fix- treasure, and who had been sitting (good
ed principle. She had heard honesty man) insensible to thelapse of minutes,
commended, but never dreamed of its ap- which to her were anxious'ages; and from
plication to herself. She thought of it as that moment a deep peace fell upon -her
something which concerned grown-up heart, and she knew the quality of honesty.
people-men and Women. She had nev-     A year or two's unrepining application
er known temptation, or thought of pre- to her profession brightened up the feet,
paring resistance against it.-       and the prospects of her little sisters, set
Her first impulse was to go back to the whole family upon their legs again,
the old treasurer, and explain to him his and released her from the difficulty of
blunder. He was already so confused discussing moral dogmas upon a landing-
with age, besides a natural want of punc- place.
tuality, that she would have had some  I have heard her say, that it was a sur-
difficulty in making him understand it. prise, not much short of mortification to
She saw that in an instant. And then it her, to see the coolness with which the
was such a bit of money! and then the old man pocketed the difference, which
image of a larger allowance of butcher's had caused her such mortal throes.
meat on their table next day came across  This anecdote of herself I had in the
her, till her little eyes glistened, and her year 1800, from the mouth of the late
mouth moistened. But then Mr. Raven- Mrs. Crawford, then sixty-seven years
croft had always been so good-natured. of age (she died soon after); and to her
had stood her friend behind the scenes, struggles upon this childish occasion I
ad evnrcmeded he prmtio to have sometimes ventured to think her in-
somn o ever lteomn    par omoBu aginthe debted for that power of rending the heart
old man was reputed to be worth a world in th e representationaof conflictingeemo-
of money. He was supposed to havetinfrwchnateyassews
fifty puds   yea   la   f the theatre. considered as little inferior (if at all so in
An then scae starn  uon hre fig the part of Lady Randolph) even to Mrs
ures of her little stockingless and shoeless. Siddons.
sisters. And when she looked on her whi The made namd e thsi lar as trt
her staneat he thtre stokigs dhic those of Dancer, Barry, and Crawford. bhe was
her ituaion t te thatrehadmade it Mrs. Crawford, and a third time a widow, whenI

r,
;t
f
L'
.f
1 " . Yr9
T   tL
r
C 4 ,
LT.
l
t
C
4    t
d    t
t            .
f    i
i
r          '
9
Y


b
a
t
Y
T E r1[  .  , ap.y.bi r' ii+e"   . L,  ,1 ..  'y  «.   , ,.

k'2
a

s1 Story of the Heart.

IT is not our place to account for the
perversity of the human heart, or our in-
tention to excuse the inconstancy of hu-
man nature. As for the fickleness of
love, it is the old woman's axiom, time
out of mind; as if love, to prove that it
is so, ought necessarily to evince itself
incapable of the changes to which alltthe
material and immaterial world around us
is alike liable. We say no such thing.
We have seen, we have known, we can
imagine; and without further argument
on the, passion or no passion--the affec-
tion or no affection which produced this
or that consequence, we are content to
draw our own conclusions. Therefore,
without any sweeping denunciation against
the race of man-without any libel against
the law of love---without raising one man
to the elevation of greater or better spirits
-without degrading the species to the
level of this one-we shall sketch a
simple picture, in a simple way, and let
the moral, if there be any, rest with the
reader.
The precepts scattered to the young
are as seeds sown on the bosom of the
earth; time shall roll on, but the season
shall come round to show that the hus-
bandman has been there ; and so it was
with Delacour. Wealth, emolument, and
self-interest, had been the lessons of his
youth, and he had profited by them.;
On the death of his father, a respectable
tradesman, he found himself in fair cir-
cumstagces; and--by aid of his profes-
sion-for he was a lawyer--on the high
road to reputadon, and it might be, to
riches. Possessed of'a fine person, a,

graceful demeanor, a majestic figure,
pleasing voice, lively conversation, and
easy vivacity, it is no wonder he got into
good society, and, from thence, into some
notice as a professional man. He was
now turned thirty, and in the full career
of fortune ; still. unmarried, still sought
by anxious mothers, and wooed by for-
ward daughters ; but he was not in love,
or scarcely dared believe it himself. The,
father of Emily Sidney was a merchant,
who had been mainly instrumental in the
good fortune to which Delacour had at-
tained ; she was the heiress of a supposed
large property, and the beauty of her cir-
cle. This was enough to depress, a less
ardent admirer or a more calculating man;
but Delacour had owed much to chance,
and perceiving as- he thought, something
not altogether unpropitious to him, he
commenced his secret suit.
Ah ! I remember her as yesterday.
She was then eighteen,--youth scarce
mellowed into early womanhood. The
face, as it peeped from the chastening
chestnut ringlets around it, was worthy
the hand of a painter, though the smile
that played on the lip might have defied
his skill; the small and well-rounded
figure vied with sculpture, but marble had
vainly essayed to express the grace and
dignity of thyt demeanor, And this was
the least part of all. She knew what was
kindness and charity, and practised 'what
she knew. She--but let her story de-
lineate her character.
It must be presumed that Delacour
was, in his way, ambitious, and this was
the object at which he now aimed. He

A STORY OF THE HEART,

had imagined beauty; here was beauty
unrivalled, unexcelled ;-virtue,--here was
virtue the most alluring; modesty, sim-
plicity, truth, love, all combined in one ;
and for fortune, here was such as he could
never have anticipated; connexions the
most to be desired, and influence the
most to be coveted. But why reason
upon it! She should be his in any con-
dition of life,-her beauty were alone
dowry fit for a prince. In all stations
alike lovely, alike to be desired. In such
extacies he passed his hours; when a
new suitor appeared in the person of a
young baronet of considerable fortune.
Money was nothing to him, and happi-
ness every thing. Equally handsome
and agreeable, and more rich than Dela-
cour, he was, in every respect, no com-
mon rival; besides which, all the arts of
a -true lover were devised to secure the
treasre to himself. About this time Mr.
Sidney incurred a great loss of property
by an unlucky speculation. The affair
was stated to the baronet-the carriage
was put down--but he was not to be
changed by time or place; the same, ac-
corplished suitor, the same unchanged
admirer-nor did he fail to show the pre-
ference he felt. But what will love not
effect ! Emily Sidney was an only child,
and with all the sweet ignorance of afflu-
ence, she wondered what riches had to
do with content. The old question of
"love in a cottage, or palace without,"
this eternal young girl's theme, was pon-
dered upon, but all thoughts leaned to the
same side,--the predilection she felt,
happily or unhappily for Delacour. He
protested disinterested  affection-total
disregard of all future or present expec-
tations-and could she do less than be-
lieve him ? The father consulted, the
mother advised-but Emily wept, and it
ended in the refusal of the baronet. A
week after, Delacour made his offer, and
was accepted ; and who could fail ,to be
flattered by the preference ? From that
time they were all the world to one an-
other-for ever together-he the .most
attentive of lovers, she the happiest of
women.
As no man, by looking in the glass, is
likely to form a just estimate of his own

defects, or his own peculiar perfections;
so no man discovers his true character
by gazing, however intently, in that in-
ward mirror of the mind-his own imag-
ination. For as our shadows, seen in
the sun, are most defective r.epresenta-
tions of our own forms, so are these men-
tal likenesses like the bright shape of
fancy, too airy and too heavenly, and too
perfect to be aught but ideal types of what
we would fain believe. Delacour had
his vanity. He had hitherto been a hap-
py and prosperous man; he was much
sought, and, moreover, was beloved by
one whose opinion most men had been
pleased to have gained. And if he de-
ceived himself or believed too firmly in
himself, what are not the deceptions that
we practise on ourselves, and on others-.
and this when we would be tine to all
parties. It was, however, no deceit that
he wasin love, though the manner of his
loving might be another thing. Here his
heart was fixed. The world might go
round, and the seasons change, but each
and the other could not affect him. All
his feelings, his associations, were here
combined, and nature must change ere
he cold. But why descant upon, or
question, his emotions?  Who, in a
dream, ever dreamed that he should
awake again in five minutes, or five
hours, or ages, or centuries ! For us, we
have oftentimes stood on the utmost
height of a green and glorious hill, and
there have seen nature's most awful
might spread out around us. The vale,
the sloping mead, the verdant lawn, the
blooming garden ground, the river, the
lake, the slender stream, all blessing and
giving glory to, the darkness of our
thoughts within; and when the golden
sun broke out, we hailed the earth as
joyous and happy. We do not know
that the cloud was noticed, or the tempest
heard to moan, though in the deep forest
its voice might have been heard deploring.
We must confess, that when the rain
came down, we were taken unawares.
Our thoughts were leading on hope, not
treading after servile despair. And when
the landscape was effaced, the brightness
of the heavens gone away, then we could
have wept, but the tears were demijed

69

D
r
t h' r 'r  39  . 1  "i  ,".   ~    '4" Y       ;,   S^'~; ., :  rl   , rb ^: wk+k^''Sarp v , . rr   ,+t^  ru+a^ ,.q.r- pm"Y xns .rr+. -,r^^,^wJ., : }eraYw  W s + r ,,.CwaJDyx
.., ro  ryJJY jS -'l7
F             M{           d ,4  f..   a.  -   " t      W     x"1MfiL4            i                                                     -        w

v  V
r

9.
\l

.-..


,
r '_             U"    "";       -          to    "  ., -     y-a ,

61

I

A  Story of the Heart.

.f Story of the Hear

t.                      71

So Delacour had before his eyes some
such gorgeous scene ; it was still bright,
and without shadow, as if it never meant
to fade.
It was a delightful evening at the latter
end of summer, when, mounting his
horse, he took his usual way to the man-
sion of the Sidneys. His easy and fash-
ionable lounge, his fine person, set off by
the splendor of his attire, as well as by
the beauty of true content there depicted,i
might alone have attracted the passengers;
but then his steed, as if proud of his duty,
contrived by certain coquettish knaveries
and ambling graces, to fix the attention.
Delacour was born to be admired, "the
observed of all observers," and many
were the remarks as he passed onward.
He had been riding thus for some
time, when he was overtaken by an ac-
quaintance.
" What ! Delacour, on the old road
again, in spite of the news. Why Sidney
is in the Gazette."
"Impossible !" cried Delacour, "I
would'have ventured my life against it-
you joke."
"Incredulous as a lover," replied the
other, "look and be satisfied."
The paper was handed to him, a glance
was sufficient, and murmuring a hasty
adieu, he set spurs to his horse, and was
quickly lost to the view ; the cloud of
dust that followed his flight, alone told of
his passage; and those who now saw him,
pale, agitated, and flying desperately for-
ward, might have well mistaken him for
the messenger of more than common woe.
A dagger, indeed, could scarcely have
caused a greater revulsion of the heart.
He no sooner, entered the house, than
the voice of the domestic proclaimed that
something had happened; he met Mrs.
Sidney on the stairs.
"You will find Emily," said she, "in
the drawing-room. This affair has agi-
tated us all--you will excuse Mr. Sidney
to-night?"
He whispered a polite reply, and has-
tened forward, but he was, for the first
time, unheard. Emily was seated at the
table, lights were in the room; she was
gazing at something-it was his picture,
the one he had himself given her; he

drew near-the lip quivered, and tears
were trembling in the eyelids; she sigh-
ed and sighed again, he advanced a step
farther, a slight cry escaped her.
" Oh ! it is you," she exclaimed, but
there was something tremulous in the
voice, half joy, half anguish: "I knew
you would come, that is, I thought you
would."  "Ilow could I do less than
come, when I have so often come before,"
was the answer. "You are very good,"
she sighed, "but my father's misfortunes,
oh ! Delacour, you can guess my feel-
ings."
" Your feelings are perhaps peculiar to
you," he returned, somewhat coldly,
" you are very suspicious to-night."
" I hope not," she replied meekly,,
"but you are tired, we will have some
refreshment, and tune the harp; you
were always fond of that."
The refreshments were brought, she
helped him with her own hands ; but
when she turned to the instrument, the
full and surcharged eyes-the flushed
face-the heaving of the bosom-the
trembling speech-the look wandering to
and fro on the face of her lover, too plain-
ly indicated that she had perceived some-
thing more or less than usual in theman-
ner of his address. She seemed to De-
lacour, as she touched the strings, to have
the finest figure in the world, and indeed
her soul was on the chords. She felt
that she needed some other person to
make all he had once been to her ; she
was a gentle and excellent girl, and Dela-
cour, who was an admirer of all excel-
lence, was quickly won to her side. She
had never played with such execution,
and now attentive, and now wavering, he
listened, and was now impassioned and
now cold as ever-and now he dreamed
himself back to all his former adoration
of her. At length he snatched a kiss--
said something of forgiveness, and all
was forgotten ; but another hour was
over-he was silent and more cold than
death, at least, to the heart of Emily. It
was now getting late, anid he declined, on
plea of business, staying the night, which
was his usual custom. She sunk .into
silence and despondency.
" You are sad, Miss Sidney," he said,

"or angry, but my Emily used not to be' Yet why arraign the providence of Hea-
either."                             ven ! For we walk like the wayfarer of
" I am sad," she murmured, "but not' the desert, when no star is out to guide
angry-you are full of mistakes to-night." us. With the blessing of happiness in
She smiled faintly,                  our hands, we cast it aside and determine
"I am   surely not mistaken," he re- on misery; and-when weighed down by
turned, " not a word has been' spoken the burden of -carc, we would1 sill seek
this half hour; but some people mistake, to be happy; and this, because nothing
temper for feeling."                 is desirable we possess, and all to be co-
"Excuse me," she cried, and as she-I veted we can never hope to obtain. Vile
was seated by his side, she placed her weakness of human nature; that we who
hand gently upon his shoulder: "you. would, in truth, believe ourselves perfect,
do not understand me ; there is no tern- should yet allow ourselves, wilfully and
per in me but sorrow. I am not angry,"[ willingly; to be so base ! One would
but he arose, and hinted that he must de- think that " the wisdom of the serpent"
part.                                1-the cunning of true selfishness, might
Good ni it, Miss Sidney," said he,' teach us selfish peace: if "the gentleness
"good ni it Emily,-we shall meet to-! of the dove"-the artlessness of true na-
morrow."                            1 ture, might teach us disinterested love.
His hand was upon the door-sheiAs for Delacour,he resolved to be wretch-
looked up-blushed and advanced to-i ed, because he feared to be so; and then
wards him. "I am not angry," she add-, sought to be happy even while resigning
ed, "you mistake me. Let us be friends."Ihis greatest of human good. But what
The last gush of feeling burst from his if the affections we feel, or others feel for
heart-and he caught her in his arms.1 us, be true or false: the falsehood or the
A scarcely audible, "God bless you," truth may be equally miserable-time
came from his lips-an instant-and he!can alone show u$ the reverse. In the
was gone.                             mean time the world goes on,    d we
In her bosom was left sorrow-and an- must go likewise, lest, thrown from the
guish-and repining; the red blush was channel-broken on the rock of hope-
on her brow, but she sighed not, neither while catching at some other or firmer
did she weep. The next day she receiv-' hold than the reed within our grasp-lest
ed an apology for not waiting on her, as' finally, we be drifted down the tide of
his business was urgent, but a promise. tinge-and left to perish. So Delacour
so to do as quickly as possible. But day pursued his avocations-rushed into so-
after day past on, and he came not,-shet ciety-and believed himself contented.
watched in vain.. It was late one even- But the canker of the heart eats not away
ing, she thought she saw him leaning as; so soon. If he had any feelings, any
usual against the garden gate. She went sentiments---he had forsworn the better
to the window, but it was delusion,-she part. As it is never too late for a man
looked more intently, answered' incohe-to grow wise, so it is never too late to
rently some questions addressed to her,Iilove honor. Had he then lived for this!
-and fell senseless to the ground.    Heremembered his debts of obligation-
Let ue pass over the rest.--It has been, of gratitude to his old friend; but then
said that the father waited on Delacour,1 he recalled also the prospects that might
but all that could be elicited was, that his yet be open to him-the  crease of
views were changed, his mind, but notj wealth-his expectations of the future-
his affections, altered. With these words he thought but once and no more;i he
he left him: " Young man," said heI hastened into amusements, into dissipa-
" may the sorrows of this young creature~ tion, and while he forgot his affection, he
fall a hundred fold on your head !" forgot himself. Some have remarked that
*    *     *    *    *     *    *   his person became altered, his spirits
How strangely we decide our destiny ! changed, that it was natural depression
.Led by appearances, even misled by truth., and forced hilarity; but if he ever expe-

I ,
A_

f
f
n
k  t                                                              O
t
I
t  4
_                                                                                                                       rT
d;
!4Y                                                        MIN-w' +   p y r.r"*MrP'n  -e'r
1 !'    " '"-"   ''?;  F° .$t  ,r aM. -H, a    v  irM+ I"'n-..r.n u     lE' ,gPyq y+sn +w.rw wr w  am.-..  ..pn,. "wNr..ri s.YC             -
,      -I             r   n d    .'                                              .   ,                                   '   n"      Ia  ~               _ ' - r                   ,r,   '- t     x r V             -i.t,   "      I   ,      " f                 1       I                                     ,
-Az

70

J

t
r
S   1t 1
t   Y
h '
Y
rf
y
(a

j

_' }
J
r
J
1
3"
Z
4
e}
'     i
ax
i,      ,
y:
y
i
F     F  .
.
r
Y
l

..

-1= Ai l~

0
ti
r'
t


f
}yH
_.  '  A                ,acl        4"'lc '!                                  j      tt    ''            ,                      -            1  ' ','rih-'
'tti?       .       -    :. ,   .'t ^ , '-        * of A    :r.. c .      '  if  r,     ,  {..,-              -,  '  .     ,S   y            id  c.'  
7

A  Story of- the Heart.

A11 Story of the Heart.

rienced wretchedness, or sighed in the
full emotion of regret, he was the last to
believe that his sorrows, his vexation, his
self-r eproaches, were of his own creation.
But a few months had gone by, and
another lady caught his attention, of his
own years-handsome,. accomplished,
and of desired wealth. He soon imagin-
ed himself to be in love, for in false hearts
no flame is so easily kindled as false pas-
sion ; and the lady was in love with him,
just such love as a calculating woman
may bestow, who thinks more of herself
than of the world beside. She knew,
indeed, of no feelings out of the sphere
of a drawing-room, or any emotion but
such as might lie in the compass of a
carriage. Again family, future, friends,
and connections were canvassed, and
were fond hitting ; again he pictured un-
interrupted peace, unclouded days; again
he was in possession of all his dreams;
again hoped, was again happy; again
constant, again, in fact, a lover.
Time rolled on and on, and he saw no
reason to regret his choice. He became
restless, for others were in pursuit of the
same prize as himself, and then he grew
impatient and more impassioned, and, at
length, made his offer, and was success-
ful. He was now more gay than ever--
more fashionable-more splendid.  In
all public places and private parties he
was the acknowledged suitor, and con-
gratulated by his friends on the fortune
he would acquire--on the conquest he
had made; he was not backward in boast-
ing the favor in which he found himself,
ill exhibiting the influence he had.over
her, and in talking of the brilliant pros-
pects that he anticipated in the futures
It was with this lady hanging on his
arm, that he first again beheld Emily
Sidney. The bloom of youth was gone,
the form wasted, the-ringlets confined
.beneath a -gauze cap ; the figure no lon-
ger joyous' with content, but shackled by
despondency and disappointment. She
rose as she beheld him-the young Baro-
net was at her side. -
."I hope I have the pleasure of seeing
you well," said Delacour, with his un-
changing eye fixed full upon her face.
She blushed, faltered, and murmured an

assent. " I beg your pardon," he added,
"but I hear you only indistinctly. You
say that you are well, surely." She fix-
ed her expressive look reproachfully upon
him. "I am better than I have been,"
she returned, "indeed-quite well," and
so they parted. The words that had been
spoken were the common compliments
of the day: but oh! the manner said
every thing. On that night she burnt a
little likeness she had drawn of him from
memory; she cast aside all embarrass-
ment, she quitted her sick room, dressed,
sung, laughed, danced and played as she
was used to do; she hurried into compa-
ny, into amusement, was as much ad-
mired as ever, as usual sought as when
she had a fortune: but' her parents saw
the dark side of the picture,-the young
girl's heart was broken.
Can it be possible that Delacour went
home that night in remorseless compla-
cency?   That no compunction dwelt
within his breast-that no conscience
visited his thoughts.-that the faded form
of nature's loveliness-.-the sweet confu-
sion that pleaded,'like the tongue of mer-
cy and of truth-that, last of all, that-
look-had spoken nothing! It is impos-
sible. He knew he was to blame--he
writhed under the infliction of secret re-
gret-he thought he had not acted quite
honorably-quite tenderly-but for all
that he would have started at the name,
of villain. Yet it was for his good he
should act as he had (lone ; she would
marry the Baronet; his destiny, and not
himself, was to be reproached, and, shift-
ing from any further argument, he hasten-
ed to conclude affairs with the lady in
question.
Now came the confusion of prepara-
tion. Parties were given and received,
and the round of reciprocal introduction
took place, and, in the sadden rush of
coming events, Delacour lost all recollec-
tion of the past, and sacrificed its memo-
ry for ever on the altar of futurity. The
world was determined to make him pleas-
ed, and he was resolute to be so. The
house was taken, furniture, table-linen,
the elegances of a lady's comforts, all
were procured, and all in the exact taste
that night best suit both parties. Busi-

.
..

ness was no longer attended to, for Dela-
cour was at each and every hour of the
day prosecuting his love-suit, and the
lady was, at all times, his attentive listen-
er. The marriage deeds and the settle-
ment were next talked about, for marri-
ages, at least such marriages as these,
generally end as they begin, in a very
business-like manner. But now, on the
exposure-of the absolute property, on the
explanation of the contingent prospects
of Mr. Delacour, he was found, by the
father, or might it be by the lady?-he
was found deficient, that is, not quite the
exact bargain that was expected. They
tell that the lady, hearing he had boasted
of her preference, fearing too easy a con-
quest, adopted this pretty piece of co-
quetry, in hopes of being over-persuaded.
Be- this as it may; at the moment of
doubt and denial, at the moment when
the lady hinted that her decision had been
entirely in obedience to her parents, not
that she had in the least changed, then it
was that Delacour perceived he had been
a dupe-cheated, betrayed, and made the
very ridicule of fortune.  He rushed
from the house, where he had passed
two years in the pursuit of a shadow, as
worthless as it was frail, and hastened
homeward.
He had pride, he was not quite with-
out feeling, at least for himself; but when
he recollected the heaven he had cast
away, how he had smote upon the heart
that loved him, to be smitten in return,
conscience was his accuser. The affair
of Miss Sidney was known to his ac-
quaintances ; he himself had given pub-
licity to this; here was the deceiver him-
self deceived, the betrayer himself be-
trayed-and he heard the laugh of deri-
sion-go round about him. '
It is hard for the brave and the good to
part with the lasting hope-the lving
impression-the unfading aspirations of
their every-day existence; but how much
more difficult for the calculating-the
base, to separate, upon even terms, with
their desires. This one expectation, this
aggrandlizement, perhaps, the lady her-
self, had been the stamina of Delacour' s
late actions and life. To have been
climbing, with struggles and anguish, the

72

73

C

i
Ca

I'

steep of fortune--.bewildered among the
brushwood-torn and defaced. amid the
brambles,-to find one's'foot upon the
last elevation our wondering gaze might
discover, and no sooner to find ourselves
there than the foundation gives way, the
basement is scattered, and we and all our
tiny hopes hurled headlong into the abyss,
or into the humble vale from which we
first up-sprung,-this may well demand
patience; but when inflicted on the strong,
when suffered by the proud, then comes
the sting of madness-the writhing of
passion-the gnawing of the heart-and
all that despair may suffer under, and
philosophy deride.
While torn by conflicting emotions,
there seemed no resting-place whereon
the thoughts of Delacour might repose.
He had held himself above the world, as
one whom no storm might reach, no
breath might touch: he had walked in
pride, he was therefore more open to
scorn. He looked around him, and one
fair form, and one alone, was seen in the
far expanse, and to her he turned. To
this being he voyed to resign all false
ambitions, all theories of self-emolument,
all speculations of self-interest. He had
grown in riches within the last two years;
she might still love him-he had lost
honor in losing her-well, he must repair
the loss-but then her reproaches and
scorn,-he deserved them, and humbly
and faithfully he could avow it. He4
thought of her angel ways-her maiden
kindness ; he thought, and wondered at
the monster he had been. But the mind
forms schemes, after the body is tired of
action, incapable of impulse. A fatal
malady, the -effect of his disturbed spir-
its, now made its appearance. - Day after
day passed in ineffectual attempts to ob-
tain an interview with the being he had
injured. The wretched young lady, on
whom their last meeting had made a last-
ing impression, suspicious of his ad vances,
fearing to avow her real sentiments ; her
delicacy offended and pride wounded, fled
his secret approaches, or with cold insen-
sibility met his more open attentions. It
wvas enough for her to know that he was
on the point of marriage with another,
land though he was evidently an object

_                                                                                                                                                                                                 __

,
'     -      .  ,
_                                                                                                                                                                               f        z
yy               n                    4,r   tl    i
,     :.  _ ., 'r . ,:;te a    ?:       ;  \.      .i4+',^'iw s.#=,    pY  ,, F                       r        ~er    '       ;rq-


74  .~9 Sory of te Head.                                          d Storyof h    eat                     7

of horror, yet, more eager than ever for  And now he wouldwrite to her, re-
some explanation, something to subdue veal all his heart, and rely upon her gen-
or excite the anguish within him, he con- erosity, and in the energy of desperation
tinted his vain pursuit. ,Baffled at all the epistle was penned. But vain the
points, and sick in body and mind, he designs of man! On that very day he
yielded to his depression, undetermined heard that she had acquired a large for-
in what way to act that might yet amend tune, by the death of a distant -relatign.
the past. A fortnight was over, and he. Thus then the. barrier was placed for ever
was the shadow of-his former self, the between them. To return was now de-
wreck of his own weakness and folly. nied him. Fortune had been the aim of
He now determined,.cost what it would, his life, and it now stood, forever, be-
to see her and to speak to her.  Was it! tween him and all that he valued from
reason or was it madness that led him to this to the grave. How, without the
act thus ?                           imputation of the meanest of motives,
It was a fine and sunny afternoon, how dare he now return ?  What had
when he quitted his sick chamber, in the once been generous, would now be base.
wild and neglected attire of one who had, No-no-the spring of.life was over, the
indeed, forgotten himself; and jumping' wilderness of the world gone through,
on the top of a passing stage, he quickly and.death lay alone open to him.
found himself in the neighborhood of the  The tide of feelings will have way, but
cottage where they now dwelt. This! with Delacour it now bore upon its pas-
was his last attempt, and he was resolved sage the freshness and the vigor of life.
it should not be unsuccessful. Some! It might be- truly said of him, that, from
time he lingered, till, growing impatient,t this time, he was a broken-spirited man,
he sprung over a small fence at the bot- -one not to be reconciled to himself,--
tom of the garden, and made his way, one who condemned himself beyond
stealthily, to an arbor that was near. aught or all in the world beside. His
His hand touched the Foliage round the happiness he had cast away, his wealth
entrance ere he perceived, reclining on a he had rendered worthless'to him, and
seat, the figure of Emily herself. An: the malicious have said (and the best of
involuntary sigh escaped him, but hers us are not free from malice) that what his
thoughts were elsewhere, and it was un- owi folly and emotions might have failed
heard. He gave one fatal glance, and, to effect, his dissipation-his recklessness
in another instant, rushing forward, he, --shall it be said--the profligacy of a
clasped her in his arms. It was not a wounded mind-more easily contrived.
shriek, or a groan, but something more' Disease had now laid hold upon him.
terrible than either, that burst from her His friends came round him, all atten-
lips, the living sound of anguish and of tions. were paid him, and he received a
sorrow. In vain he called upon her in1 note from the last lady of his choice;
all the desperation of agony, repentance,, she had heard of his illness, she would
and affection; in vain, with presumptu- receive him again. Delacour could just
ous lips, he dared the purer touch of hers: afford a smile, and with hands chilled
she lay insensible, or only recovered tot in the coldness of coming dissolution, he
give back a blind look of horror, as he tore the paper and scattered it around.
embraced her. Here then was the on-   At length the hour and the moment
summation of his villany-the height of drew nigh that was to give him freedom-;
all his despair. At this moment he'heard his thoughts had truly become a burden
a footstep. Scorn, contumely, and in- to him, and he was haippy to resign them.
sult,..were all he could expect ; lie felt lHe had made peace with earth, and plead-
himself a wretch who merited no more; ed .for peace with heaven; and now he
and, with one last embrace--one last re- could willingly go his way. " This is,
spectful pressure--he fled he scarcely the last -bitter pang, my dear girl," said
knew where, and the morning had risen he, as his favorite sister drew near, "but
before he found himself at home. it is the last, and let us pass through it

bravely." It was after he had blessed
her, and kissed her, and bade her adieu,
that he called her back again. His noble
face was changed to the marble of the
grave, and those eyes shone with the last
burning flame of nature and of life. He
dashed away the tears that had gathered
till they flowed, and dashed them away
again. The impressiveness of death was
on his tongue. "-If ever you see her,"
he sighed; "if ever you meet, tell her
-but no-I can say nothing.-If she
knew all she would know too much-
my silence is enough." With this he
sank backward, and lay calmly ; a long
drawn sigh was heard-and Delacour
was dead. But the sorrow he had caused l
neither was ended nor died with him. His
faults had been without extenuation, his
errors without excuse, and the world had
not been backward- to censure him; yet
one heart was found that could pardon,
one soft enough to pity his frailties. All
the mercy he could hope was there, and1
tenderness that surpassed all he might
imagine. The shriek that burst from
Emily Sidney while reading the news of
his decease, was the knell of another un-
timely end. The woe of years was end-
ed, the link of past emotions broken.
He was then gone-for ever and irrevo-
cably gone. The pride of her thoughts
-the friend of her heart-the lover)
of her youth. No scorn or maidenly
reserve could now uphold her. Modesty
might fear to reveal the last fond truth,
but death wipes away all blushes.
If sighs might speak of grief, or tears,
or inward sorrowing, a broken sleep, a,
restless and unenjoyed existence,-if; all
these are the emblems of woe, all this had'
been past, though in the last few years,
and it was over. "Mourn not, my child,"
urged the mother, "he is happy, and has
long been a stranger to us." "I am sen-
sible of no grief," was the answer; "yes,

- w r  ., x J

he has long been a stranger AtIst o
me,-yes, yes-to me he has been a
stranger."  This was the last time she
ever spoke of him; but the thoughts will
utter what the tongue never tells. Shy
dreamed upon the scene in the garden,
that faint and indistinct recollection of
something most blissful and most wretch-
ed. He had thought of her, had return-
ed to her, it was enough, he was forgiven;
yet why had she not spoken to him and
soothed him, and parted in friendship, if
not in love? The idea was fraught with
madness, and here the fatality of all her
misery was seen. In the mean time she
evinced no more than common grief.
The day of his funeral she took her
usual walk; she saw the sad procession
pass, speechless, tearless, and without a
murmur. And yet after this she was
seen in company, and, to the same eyes,
the same as ever. Is woman's pride so
delicate, or is it so unconquerable that it
may feign all this ! Yes, sad- necessity,
that the last humility of disappointed af-
fections can only stoop thus low.
At many public places, scenes of fash-
ionable resort, or haunts of fashionable
invalids, she was afterwards met. The
baronet was in constant attendance ; the
parents hinted their hopes. She had
never, willingly, given sorrow to any one;
she consented to accept him, received
meekly his attentions, smiled at the de-
lighted congratulations -of her friends,
and seemed happy.-The sober twilight
of morning just shadowed the apartment
where she lay; it was her own accustom-
ed attitude; her arm gently supporting
her head, the long hair hanging luxuri-
ouslyon the bosom and veiling the hands.
Her mother drew near and stooped to
kiss her. Enough; what would you
more! That cry might have well toki
the rest.

k.

;r
i
"             ..
t         2    -
' y,          - ,    r   r        ~      ,       ..            ' '..: °'                    ;,              ,-i' ,rr   ' Ywf       _     ,_  _    ;_,_',- aSrtf       -       i   .i A.Xi
T ..  i                                          '              M f'"

,
Et
t{
;
5
C.;
i' g
l  zt
,
.r
t ,.
'
,t
tfi,
mss{
I,
t
C                  a
dtv
N
z
4,
f=
t
r
,f
i
fi      71
3
r   .$
:

4
t
i

74

ok

A Story of the .Heart.

75

A Story of f' the Heart.

k   ,   A"  F


}
rfr'a  Y : Fr    i"- ""!-Pa"',y  , ',fi'I'  .s e
h
r..
.Y.
TEl Ob
7                                                                         /
y mow!
N S!
r                                                                                                           i

The Vacant ,Chair.

V A C ANT.CIIAIR.
BY J. M. WILSON, ESQ.

You have all heard of the Cheviot    Peter was placed in very unpleasant
mountains. If you have not, they are circumstances, owing to the situation of
a rough, rugged, majestic chain of hills, Marchlaw house, which unfortunately
which a poet might term the Roman wall was built immediately across the "ideal
of Nature, crowned with snow, belted line".dividing the two kingdoms; and.his
with storms, surrounded by pastures and misfortune was, that being born within it,
fruitful fields, and still dividing the nor- he knew not whether he was an English-
thern portion of Great Britain from the man or a Scotchman. He could trace
southern., With their proud summits his ancestral line no further back than his
piercing the clouds, and their dark rocky great-grand-father, who, it appeared from
declivities frowning upon the plains be- the family Bible, had, together with his
low, they appear symbolical of the wild grandfather and father, claimed March-
and untameable spirits of the borderers law as his birth-place. They, however,
who once inhabited their sides. We say, were not involved in the same perplexity
you have all heard of the Cheviots, and as their descendant. The parlor was
know them to be very high hills, like a distinctly acknowledged to be' in Scot-
huge clasp riveting England and Scotland land, and two-thirds of the kitchen were
together; but we are not aware that you as certainly allowed to be in England;
may have heard of Marchlaw, an old, his three ancestors were born in the room
gray-looking farm-house, substantial as a over the parlor, and therefore were
modern fortress, recently, and-for aught Scotchmen beyond question; but Peter
we know to the contrary, still inhabited unluckily, being brought into the world
by Peter Elliot, the proprietor of some before the death of his grandfather, his
five hundred surrounding acres. The parents occupied a room immediately
boundaries of Peter's farm indeed were over the debateable boundary line which
defined neither by fields,, hedges, nor crossed the'kitchen. The room, though
stone walls. A wooden stake here, and scarcely eight feet square, was evidently
a stone there, at considerable distances situated between the two countries; but
from each other, were the general land- no one being able to ascertain what por-
marks; but neither Peter nor his neigh- tion belonged 'to each, Peter, after many
bors considered a few acres worth quar- arguments and altercations upon the sub-
relling about; and their sheep frequently ject, was driven to the disagreeable alter-,
visited each other's pastures in a friendly native of confessing he knew not what
way, harmoniously sharmg a family din- countryman he 'was. What rendered
er in the same spirit that their masters the confession the more painful was, it
nade themselves free at each other's ta- was Peter's highest ambition to be
les-                               thought a Scotchman; all his arable land

lay on the Scotch side; his mother was
collaterally related to the Stewarts; and
few families were moi-e ancient or re-
spectable than  the Elliots.  Peter's
speech, indeed, betrayed him to be a
walking partition between the two king-
doms, a living representation of the Uni-
on; for in one word he pronounced the
letter r with the broad, masculine sound
of the North Briton; and in' the next
with the liquid burr of the Northumbri-
ans.
Peter, or if you prefer it, Peter Elli-
ot, Esquire, of Marchlaw, in the coun-
ties of Northumberland- an9 Roxburgh,
was for many years the best runner,
leaper and wrestler, between Wooler and
Jelburgh. Whirled from his hand, the
ponderous bullet whizzed through the air
like a pigeon on the wing; and the best
putter on the borders quailed from com-
petition. As a feather in his grasp, he
seized the unwieldy hammer, swept it
round and round his head, accompanying
with agile limb its evolutions, swiftly as
swallows play around a circle, and hurled
it from his hands like a shot from a rifle,
till antagonists shrank back, and the' spec-
tators burst into a shout. " Well done,
Squire! the Squire forever!" once exclaim-
ed a servile observer of titles. "Squire,
wha are you squiring at ?" returned Peter.
"Confound ye! where was ye when I
was christened Squire ! My name's.
Peter Elliot-your man, or any body's
man, at whatever they like !"
Peter's soul was free, bounding and
buoyant as the wind that caroled in a
zephyr, or shouted in-a hurricane -upon
his native hills, and his body was thirteen
stone of healthy, substantial flesh, steep=
ed in the spirits of life. He had been
long married, but marriage hadwrought
no change upon him. They who sup-
pose that -wedlock transforms the lark
into an owl, offer an insult to the lovely
beings who, brightening the darkest
hours with the smiles of affection, teach
us that that only is -unbecoming in the
husband which is dlisgraceful in the man.
Nearly twenty years had passed over
them, butdanet was still as kind, and in
his eyes as beautiful, as when, bestowing
on him her hand, she blushed her vows

at the altar; and he was still as happy,
as generous, and as free. Nine fair chil-
dren sat around their domestic hearth,
and one, the youngling of the flock,
smiled upon its mother's knee. Peter
had never known sorrow ; he was blest
in his wife, in his children, in his flocks.
He had become richer than his father.
He was beloved by his neighbors, the
tillers of his ground, and his herdsmen;
yet, no man envied his prosperity, But
a blight passed over the harvest of his
joys, and gall was rained into the cup
of his felicity.
It was a Christmas day, and a more
melancholy-looking dun never. rose on a
25th of December. One vast sable
cloud, like a universal pall, overspread
the heavens. For weeks the ground
had been covered, with clear, dazzling
snow ; and as, throughout the day, the
rain continued its unwearied and mono-
tonous drizzle, the earth assumed a char-
acter and appearance melancholy and
troubled as thd heavens. Like a mastiff
that has lost its owner, the wind howled
dolefully down the glens, and was re-
echoed from the caves of the mountains,
as the lamentations of a legion of invisible
spirits. The frowning; snow-clad preci-
pices were instinct with motion, as ava-
lanche upon avalanche, the larger burying
the less, crowded downward in their
tremendous journey to the plain. The
simple mountain rills. had assumed the
majesty of rivers, the broader streams
were swollen into wide torrents, and,
gushing forth as cataracts in fury and in
foam, enveloped the valleys in an angry
flood. But at Marchlaw the fire blazed
blithely; the kitchen groaned beneath
the load of preparations for a joyful
feast; and glad faces glided from room
to room.
Peter Elliotkept Christmas, not so
much because it was Christmas, as in
honor of its being the birth-day of Thom-
as, his first-born, who that day entered
his nineteenth year. With a father's
love his heart yearned for all his chil-
dren, but Tfhomas was the pride of his
eyes.' Cards of apology had not then
found their wvay- among our Border hills;
and, as all knew that, although Peter ad-

F 444      4     4  ."

g.''

-
1                                           {
.. , 4           ,               ,                           °1
_       t  i
1J
T:

318

77

7"k
vz~
44f,.

I
I
I
I

14
'1';
444

---    --     -                                                                                r -.

rT      
(   ,,             T                                    r; \         p ... 2,h       .,'                             °        y.       w  }  ...'SF              ' M _        4 /  ,     '   h'C                 'iRY"L';..'9 .LC,


78TeVcatCar.39                                     -Th  aat  hi.7

mitted no spirits within his threshold,
nor a drunkard at his table, he was nev-
ertheless, no niggard in his hospitality,
his invitations were accepted without
ceremony. The guests were assembled ;
and, the kitchen being the only apart-
ment in the building large enough to con-
tain them, the cloth was spread upon a
long oaken table, stretching from England
into Scotland. On the English end of
the board were placed a ponderous plum-
pudding, studded with temptation, and a
smoking sirloin'; on Scotland, a savory
and well-seasoned haggis, with a sheep's
head and trotters; while the intermediate
space was filled with the good things of
this life common to both kingdoms and
to the seasons. .,
The guests from the north and from the
south were arranged promiscuously. Ev-
ery seat was filled--save one. The chair
by Peter's right hand remained unoccu-
pied. He had raised his hand before his
eyes, and besought a blessing on what
was placed before them, rind was prepar-
ing to carve for his visiters, when his
eyes fell upon the vacant chair. The
knife dropped upon the table. Anxiety
flashed across his countenance, like an
arrow from an unseen hand.
" Janet, where is Thomas ?" he in-
quired; "have none o'ye seen him ?"
and without waiting an answer he con-
tinued, "How is it possible he can be
absent at a time like this ? And on such
a day, too? Excuse me a minute, friends,
till I just step out and see if I can find
him. Since ever I kept this day, as
many o' ye ken, he has always been at
my right hand in that very chair, and I
canna think o' beginning our dinner while
I see it is empty."
"If the filling of the chair be" all,"
said a pert young sheep-farmer, named
Johnson, "I will step.into it till Master{
Thomas arrives." -
" Ye are not a father, young man,"
said Peter, and walked out of the room.
Minute succeeded minute, but Peter
returned not. The guests became an-
gry, peevish and gloomy, while an ex-
cellent dinner continued spoiling before
them. Mrs. Elliot, whose good-nature
was the most prominent feature in her

character, strove by every possible effort
to beguile the unpleasant impressions she
perceived gathering upon their counte-
nances.
"Peter is just as bad as him," she
remarked, "to have gone to seek him
when he kenned the dinner wouldna
keep. And I am sure Thomas kenned
it would be ready at ane o'clock to the
minute. It is sae unthinking and un-
friendly like to keep folk waiting." And,
endeavoring ,to smile upon a beautiful
black-haired girl of seventeen, who sat
by her elbow, she continued, in an anx-
ious whisper, "Did ye see naething of
him, Elizabeth, hinny ?"
The maid blushed deeply; the ques-
tion evidently gave freedom to a tear,
which had for some time been an unwil-
ling prisoner in the brightest eyes in the
room; and the monosyllable "No," that
trembled from her lips, was audible to
the ear of the inquirer. In vain Mrs.
Elliot despatched one of her children
after another, in quest of the father and
brother; they came and went, but brought
no tidings more cheering than the moan-
ing of the hollow wind. Minutes rolled
into hours, yet neither came. She per-
ceived the prouder of her guests prepar-
ing to withdraw, and observing that,
"Thomas's absence was so singular and
unaccountable, and so unlike either him
or his father, she didna ken what apology
to make to her friends for such treat-
ment ; but it was needless waiting, and,
begged they would use no ceremony, but'
just begin."
No second invitation was necessary;
good humor appeared to be restored; and
sirloins, pies, pastries and moor-fowl, be-
gan to disappear like the lost son. For
a moment Mrs. Elliot apparently par-
took in the restoration of cheerfulness;
but a low sigh at her elbow again drove
the color from her rosy cheeks. Her
eye wandered to the farther end of the
table, and rested on, the unoccupied seat
of her husband, and the vacant chair of
her first-born. Her heart fell heavily
within her; all the mother gushed into
her bosom; and, rising from the table,
" What in the world can be the meaning
o' this !" said she, as she hurried with

a troubled countenance towards the door.
Her husband met her on the threshold.
"Where have you been, Peter ?" said
she, eagerly; "have ye seen naething o'
him?"
"Naething !' naething !" replied he:
"is he no cast up yet ?" and, with a
- melancholy glance, his eyes sought an
answer in the deserted chair. . His lips
quivered, his tongue faltered.
"Gude forgie me !" said he ; " and
such a day for even an enemy to be out
in ! I've been up and down every way
that I could think on, but not a living
creature has seen or heard tell of him.
Ye'll excuse me, neighbors," he added,
leaving the house; "I must away again,
for I canna rest."
"I ken by myself, friends," said Adam
Bell, a decent looking Northumbrian,
"that a father's heart is as sensitive as
the apple o' his ee; and I think we
would show a want o' natural sympathy
and respect for our worthy neighbor, if
we didna every one get his foot into the
stirrup without loss o' time, and assist,
him in his search. For, in my rough
country way o' thinking, it must be some-
thing out of the common that could tempt
Thomas to be a missing. Indeed, I nedna
say tempt, for there could be noinclina-
tion in the way. And, our hills," he
concluded in a lower tone, "are not ow'r
chancy in other respects besides the
breaking up o' the storm."
" Ah !" said Mrs. Elliot, wringing
her hands, "I have had the coming o'
this about me for days and days. My
head was growing dizzy with happiness,
but thoughts came stealing upon me like
ghosts, and I felt a lonely soughing about
my heart, without being able to tell the
cause-but the cause is come at last !
And my dear Thomas-the very pride
and staff o' my life-is lost to me for,
ever "
"I ken, Mrs. Elliot," replied the
Northumbrian, " it is atn easy matter to
say compose yourself, for them that dinna
ken what it is to feel. But, at the same
time, in our plain country way o' thinlk-
ing, we are always ready to believe the
worst. I've often heard my faither say,
and I've as often remarked it myself,

r                                                                                r
r
^.y wiw.swTy    '' wls'  {          19    '         ," ~;'y)"-r *.t         h'A r,,        Yt  ~r
w. c. ,
121
'      -              " (t  '          r,  ,   ,  ,M1  v                _   o                         y    l  V  r  e I   ""#     r  e   j 1  -   ,+  t    "  f    r
~gy ;yjy  p "  5 fir.\t1A !    i           ).

, , .                                                                   ,°
'    ,               a                              r
-i+ 7 1 .z    '  '; -               +feS'r+t/bMr  ; Yt"       -qd t ,;;,t.¢ty.@" r,     t'.   .  $:.,           _ /r , e"k       .     . ,,  .  1[. +"cf '" t, .,r tr. P -' ."'  " '$rtr  'IS  r f  n, ib,"'yb+    f                  ' =y  "y Y       f~9  e"
+.
.
_                                                                                                                                                                                                     '*,

that, before any thing happens to a body,
there is a something comes ow'r them,
like a cloud before the face o' the sun;
a sort o' dumb whispering about the
breast from the other.world. And though
I trust there is nothing o' the kind in
your case, yet, as ye observe, when I
find myself growing dizzy, as it were,
with happiness, it makes good a saying
of mty mother's, poor body !-' Bairns,
bairns,' she used to say, ' there is ow'r
muckle singing in your heads to-night;
we will have a shower before bed-time ;'
and I never in my born days saw it to
fail."
At another period, Mr. Bell's disserta-
tion on presentiments would have been
found a fitting text on which to hang all
the dreams, wraiths, warnings, and mar-
vellous circumstances, that have been
handed down to the company from the
days of their great-grand-fathers; but,
in the present instance they were too
much occupied in consultation regarding
the different routes to be taken in their
search.
Twelvehorsemen and some half-dozen
pedestrians, were seen hurrying in divers
directions from Marchlaw, as the first
faint lights of a melancholy day were
yielding to the heavy darkness which
appeared pressing in solid masses down
the sides of the mountains. The wives
and daughters of the party were alone
left with the disconsolate mother, who
alternately pressed her weeping children
to her heart, and told them to weep not,
for their brother would soon return;
while the tears stole down her own
cheeks, and the infant in her arms wept
because its mother wept. Her friends
strove with each other to inspire hope,
and- poured upon her ear their mingled
and loquacious consolation. But one re-
mained silent. The daughter of-Adam
Bell, who sat by Mrs. Elliot's elbow at
table, had shrunk into an obscure corner
of the room. Before her face she held
a handkerchief wet with tears. Her bo-
som throbbed convulsively; and, as oc-
casionally her broken sighs burst from
their prison-house, a significant whisper-
passed among tne younger part of the
company.

i ,.c             .              r    ,                sy1-n slew Y.   -t .,.i,               _      _                                       ..
; y                                                       ti
N^^"

Nwn

.

r
t

t'}" ^    "i  j   .,t r +   , _ ,Y      1'M'N, c :r        wu¢ r, rt    -    '!'' W, ,''r 4   .

The Vacant Chair.

79

78

The Vacant Chair.

319

0 o


.                                   .,- '~           . yf a'   fm.,y-F   ti;  1-

The Vacant Chair.

321

322

The Vacant Chair.

Mrs. Elliot approached her, and, taking.
her hand tenderly within both of hers,
"Oh, hinny! hinny!" said she, "your
sighs go through my heart like a knife !
And what can I do to comfort ye? Come,
Elizabeth, my bonny love, let us hope for
the best. Ye see before you a sorrow-
ing mother, that fondly hoped to have-
seen you and-I canna say.it !--and I am
ill qualified to give comfort, when my
own heart is like a furnace ! .But Oh !
let us try and remember the blessed por-
tion; 'Whom the Lord loveth he chas-
teneth,' and inwardly pray for strength to
say 'His will be done!'"
Time stole on towards midnight, and
one by one of the unsuccessful party re-
turned. . As foot after foot approached,
every breath was held to listen.--"No,
no, no !" cried the mother again and
again, with increasing anguish, "It is
not the foot o' my own bairn;"-while
her keen gaze still remained riveted upon;
the door, and was not withdrawn, nor the
hope of despair relinquished till the indi-
vidual entered, with a silent and ominous
shake of the head, betokening his fruit-
less efforts. The clock had struck twelve ;
all were returned save the father. The
wind howled more wildly ; the rain pour-
ed upon the windows in ceaseless tor-
rents ; and the roaring of the mountain
rivers gave a character of deeper ghostli-
ness to their sepulchral silence. For they
sat, each wrapt in. forebodings, listening
to the storm; and no sounds were heard,
save the groans of the mother, the weep-
ing 'of her children, and the' bitter and
broken sobs of the bereaved maiden, who
leaned her head upon her father's bosom,
refusing to be comforted.
At length the barking of the farm-dog
announced footsteps at a distance. Ev-
ery ear was raised to listen, every eye
turned to the-door; but before the tread
was yet audible to the listeners, "Oh,-it
is only Peter's foot !" said the miserable
mother, and, weeping, rose to meet him.
" Janet ! Janet !" he exclaimed as he
entered, and threw his arms around her
neck, " what is this come upon us at
last ?"l
He cast an inquisitive glance around
his d welling, and a convulsive shiver pass- g
21

ed over his manly frame, as his eye again
fell on the vacant chair, which no one had
ventured to occupy. Hour succeeded
hour, but the company separated not;
and low, sorrowful whispers mingled
with the lamentations'of the parents.
"Neighbors," said Adam Bell, "the
morn is, a new d'ay, and we will wait- to
see what it will bring forth, but in the
mean time, let us read a portion o' the
Divine Word, and kneel together in pray-
er, that whether or not the day-dawn
cause light to shine upon this singular
bereavement, the Sun of Righteousness
may arise with healings on his wings,
upon the hearts o' this afflicted family,
and upon the hearts of all present."
"Amen !" responded Peter, wringing
his hands; and his friend taking down
the " Ha' Bible," read the chapter where-
in it is written "It is better to be in the
house of mourning than in the house of
feasting ;" and again-"-- It is well for me
that I have been afflicted, for before I was
afflicted I went astray."
The morning came, but brought no
tidings of the lost son. After a solemn
farewell, all the visitants, save Adam Bell
and his daughter, returned every one to
their own house-; and the disconsolate
father, with his servants, again renewed
their search among the hills and surround-
ing villages.
Days, weeks, months, and years, roll-
ed on. Time had subdued the anguish
of the parents into a holy calm; but their
lost first-born was not forgotten, although
no/ trace of his fate had been discovered.
The general belief was, that he had per-
ished in the breaking up of the snow ;
and the few in whose remembrance he
still lived merely spoke of his death as a
" very extraordinary circumstance," re-
marking that "he was a wild, venture-
some sort o' lad."
Christmas had succeeded Christmas,
and Peter Elliot still kept it in commem.-
oration of the birth day of him who was
not. For the first few years after the loss
of their son, silence characterized the
party who sat down to dinner at March-.
aw, and still at Peter's right hand was
placed the vacant chair. But as the youn.-
~er branches of the family advanced in

'                        .it  . ,    a    "                 a..    i      '                         _                     '      w.hY . a.,.q,,.          St tpAa..i                                    s  ..._     "    "            Y'
+"^t"-rives                                                    cL    j;.,t y :..N..M ag         r j    t               a                   ,xrgrr             *.," "   i.F fi       [.!                          + j   GdSt1 ;,           e*f
x-

/+
rF

years, the remembrance of their brother
became less poignant. Christmas was
with all around them a day of rejoicing,
and they began to make merry with their
friends; while. their parents partook of
their enjoyment with a smile, half of ap-
proval, and half of sorrow.
Twelve years had passed away; Christ-
mas had again come; it was the counter-
part of its fatal predecessor. The hills
had not yet cast off their summer ver-
dure; the sun, although shorn of its
heat, had lost none of its brightness or
glory, and looked down upon the earth as
though participating in its gladness; and
the clear blue sky was tranquil as the sea
sleeping beneath the moon. Many vis-
iters had again assembled at Marchlaw.
The sons of Mr. Elliot and the young
men of the party were assembled upon a
level green near the house, amusing them-
selves with throwing the hammer and
other Border games, while himself and
the elder guests stood by as spectators,
recounting the deeds of their youth.
Johnson, the sheep-farmer, whom we
have already mentioned, now a brawny
and gigantic fellow of two and thirty,
bore away in every ganie the palm from
all competitors. More than once, as Pe-
ter beheld-his sons defeated, he felt the
spirit of youth glowing in his veins ; and
"Oh !" muttered he, in bitterness, " had
my Thomas been spared to me, he would
have thrown his heart's blood after the
hammer, before he would have been beat
by ever a Johnson in the country !"
While he thus soliloquized, and with
difficulty restrained an impulse to com-
pete with the victor himself, a dark, for-
eign-looking, strong-built seaman uncere-
moniously approached, and, with his arms
folded, cast a look of contempt upon the
boasting conqueror. Every eye was
turned with a scrutinizing glance upon
the stranger. In height he could not
exceed five feet nine, but his whole frame
was the model of muscular strength; his
features were open and manly, but deep-
ly sunburnt and weather-beaten; his
long, glossy, black hair, curled into ring-
lets by the breeze and the billow, fell
thickly over his temple and forehead ;
and wvhiskers of a similar hue, more con-

80

8I

V

spicuous for size than elegance, gave a
character of fierceness to a countenance
otherwise possessing a striking impress
of manly beauty. Without asking per-
mission, he stepped forward, lifted a
hammer, and swinging it around his
head, hurled it upwards of - five yards
beyond Johnson's most successful throw.
" Well done !" shouted the astonished
spectators. The heart of Peter Elliot
warmed within him, and he was hurry-
ing forward to grasp the stranger by the
hand, when the words groaned in his
throat, "It was just such a throw as my
Thomas would have made !--my own
lost Thomas !" The tear burst into his
eyes, and without speaking, he turned
back, and hurried towards the house to
conceal his emotion.
Successively at every game the stranger
had defeated all who ventured to oppose
him; when a messenger announced that
dinner waited their arrival.-Some of the
guests were already seated, others enter-
ing ; and, as heretofore, placed beside
Mrs. Elliot was Elizabeth Bell, still in
the noontide of her beauty ; but sorrow
had passed over her features like a veil
before the countenance 'of an. angel.
Johnson, crest-fallen and out of humor
at the defeat, seated himself by her side.
In early life, he had regarded Thomas
Elliot as a rival for her affections ; and
stimulated by the knowledge that Adam
Bell would be able to bestow several
thousands upon his daughter for a dowry,
he yet prosecuted his attentions with un-
abated assiduity, in despite of the daugh-
ter's aversion and the coldness of her
father. Peter had taken his place at the
table; and still by his side, unoccupied
and sacred, appeared the vacant chair,
the chair of his first-born, where none
had sat since his mysterious death or
disappearance.
"Bairns," said h~e, "did none o' ye
ask the sailor to come up and take-a bit
o' dinner with us ?
" We were afraid it might lead to a
quarrel with Mr. Johnson," whispered
one of the sons.
" He is come without asking," replied
the stranger, entering; "and the wind
shall blow from a new point if I destroy

-,,

_                                 , ..'  r        of  _  t "              _ ,1 .,yar  i4,                           i.s'.

fr i  5  ss ir ?'
rt r .        (F
x r
-     arm   -
F
f
Y
t
f                r             -
+
v   +.
b
+r              r
. i
2-
rt
f            f:
'       41f"
j
df '
i

r 3


82
the mirth or haj
ny.
"Ye are a stra
Peter, " or ye wo
ing o' mirth mak
ye are welcom
Haste, ye, lasses
vants; "some o'
gentleman."
"Gentleman in
son between his t
Never mind
les," said the sec
and before Peterc
him, he had thr
into the hallowed
twelve-years-unoc
it of sacrilege utt
a pulpit could not
gation of pious w
horror and consti
filling of the vaca
of Marchlaw.
"Excuse me,
said Peter, the w
tongue, "but ye
there !"
"0 man ! man
"get out o' that!
my chair !-take
-but dinna sit he
sat in by mortal b
my dear bairn !-
another is a thing
"Sir! sir !" co
have done it thro
excuse ye. But
seat ! Twelve ye
birthday-he pe
how !-He went
the cloud that p
never-never to
spare a father's fee
wrings the blood f
"Give me yoi
soul!"- exclaimed
vere, nay, hang it,
feelings ! BttTor
11        and I cast anchor

-      ;{                                                            .   'tl. '. ^  _ '.5

ppiness of the compa-
Anger, young man," said
uld ken this is no meet-
ers. But, I assure ye,
e, heartily welcome.
," he said to the ser-
you get a chair for the
deed !" muttered John-
eeth.
about a chair, my heart-
aman: "this will-do !"
could speak to withhold
own himself carelessly
ed, the veneratede, . the
cupied chair. The spir-
ering blasphemies from]
have smitten a congre-
'orshippers with deeper
ernationl than did this
nt chair the inhabitants
sir! excuse me, sir !"
vords trembling on his
can not-ye can not sit
i!" cried Mrs. Elliot,
get out o' that !-take
any chair in the house!
re ! It has never been
eimg since the death o'
and to see it filled by
I can not endure !"
ntinue d the father, "ye
ugh ignorance, and we
that was my Thomas's
ars this very day-his
rished, Heaven  kens
out from our sight, like
asses over the hills-
return. And, oh, sir,
lings, for to see it filled
rom my heart !"
ur hand, my worthy
the seaman; "I re-
I would ,die for your
m Elliot was my friend,:
in this chair by special'
)w that a sudden broad-
d thing; but as I don't
ach a sermon before
have to say, is-that

commission. I kno
side of joy is a ba
know how to pre
telling you, all I
Tom an't dead."

323

" Not dead !" said Peter, grasping the
hand of the stranger, and speaking with
eagerness that almost choked his utter-"
ance ; "Oh, sir! sir! tell me, how ?
how ?-Did ye say living ?-Is my ain
Somasylivig ?"
" Not dead, do ye say ?" cried Mrs.,
Elliot, hurrying towards him, and grasp-
img his other hand; "not dead ! And
shall I see my bairn again !- Oh ! may
the blessing o' Heaven, and the blessing
o' a broken hearted mother, be upon the
bearer of the gracious tidings;-But tell
me--tell me how it is possible ! As -ye
would'expect happiness here, or hereaf-
ter, dinna, dinna deceive me !"
"Deceive you !" returned the stran-
ger, grasping with impassioned .earnest-
ness their hands in his, "Never! never!
and all I can say is-Tom Elliot is alive
and hearty."
"Nono !" said Elizabeth, rising from
her seat, "He does.not deceive us; there
is that in his countenance which bespeaks
a falsehood impossible:" and she also en-
deavored to move towards him, when
Johnson threw his arm around her to
withhold her.
'' Hands off, you land-lubber !" ex-
claimed the seaman, springing towards
them, "or, shiver me ! I'll show day-
light through your timbers in the turning
of a hand-spike !" and, clasping the
lovely girl in his arms, " Betty! Betty,
my love !" he cried, "don't you know
your own Tom ? Father! mother ! don't
you know me?   Have you really forgot-
ten your own son? If twelve years have
made some change in. his face, his heart
is sound as ever."
His father, his mother, and his bro-
thers, clung around him, weeping, smil-
ing, and mingling a hundred questions
together. He threw. his arms around
the neck of each, and in answer to their
inquiries, replied, "Well! well! there
is time enough to answer questions, but
not to-day, not to-day."
" No, my bairn !-my bairn !" said
his mother, " we'll ask no questions-
nobody shall ask you any-But how-
how were ye torn away from us, my
love ? And, oh, hinney ! where, where
have ye been ?"

V=

324

83

" It is a long story, mother," said he,
"and would take a week to tell it. But,
however, to make a long story short, you
remember when the smugglers were pur-
sued and wished to conceal their brandy
in our house, my father prevented them;
they left muttering revenge, and they have;
been revenged. This day twelve years,)
I went out with the intention of meeting!
Elizabeth and her father, when I camel
upon a party of the gang concealed mi
the King's Cave. In a moment half a;
dozen pistols were held to my breast,{
and~ tying mly hands to my sides, they1 1
dragged mie into the cavern. Here I had
not been long their prisoner, when the,
snow rolling down the mountains, almost,
totally blocked up its mouth. On the1
second night they cut through the snow,
and, hurrying me along with them, I was
bound to a horse between two, and be-
fore daylight found myself stowed, like
a piece of old junk, in the hold of a smug-
gling lugger. Within a week I was ship-
ped on board a Dutch man-of-war; and,
for six. years kept dodging about on dif-1
ferent stations, till our old yawning hulk;
received orders to join the fleet which
was to fight the gallant Duncan at Cam-1
perdown. -To think of fighting against1
my own countrymen, my own flesh and
blood, was worse than to be cut to pieces;
by a cat-o'-nine-tails; and, under cover.
of the smoke of the first broadside, I,
sprang upon the gunwale, plunged into
the sea, and swam for the English fleet.
Never, never shall I forget the moment
that my feet first trod.upon the deck of a1
British frigate ! My nerves felt firm as1
her oak, and my heart free as the pennant.
that waved defiance from her mast head.
I was as active as any one during the{
battle; and, when it was over, and I found]

,.tw ,,,. r .   'Mx ~ ,              t   r     r  ,Sit '  I,  _
_-" ^+ +ar  '."rl r . ,'! , i_,  _  °"tf 'y7  ns4     ..  . .v sa:.  "   ,_rk" t ,' j? 1  +.y +        'IT,:

The Vacant Chatr.

The Vacant-Chair.

'U 

myself again among my owi country-
men, and all speaking my own language,'
I fancied-nay, hang it! I almost believ-
ed Is should meet my father, my mother,
or my dear Bess, on board of the British
frigate. I expected to see you all again
in a few weeks at farthest-but, instead
of returning to old England, before I was
aware, I found it was helm about with
us.
MAs to writing, I never had an opportu-
nity. but once. We were anchored be-
fore a French fort ; a packet was lying
along side ready to sail; I had half a side
written, and was scratching my head to
think how I should come over writing
about you, Bess, my love, when, as bad
luck would have it, our lieutenant comes
to me, and says he, 'Elliot,' says he, 'I
know you like a little smart service;
come, my lad, take the head oar, while
we board some of these French bum-
boats under the batteries.' I could'nt
say no. We pulled ashore, made a bon-
fire of one of their craft, and were setting
fire to a second, when a deadly shower
of small shot from the garrison scuttled
our boat, killed our commanding officer
with half the crew, and the few who
were left of us were made prisoners. It
is no use bothering you by telling how
we escaped from the French prison. We
did escape; and Tom will once more fill
his vacant chair."
Should any of our readers wish far-
ther acquaintance with our friends, all
we can say is, the new year was still
young when Adam Bell bestowed his
daughter's hand upon the heir of March-
law, and Peter beheld the once vacant
chair again occupied, and a namesake of
the third generation prattling on his knee,

s
-
-
:
¢
t
i
t
a"

i.f
'                               -         - a        f  r°y } {' ttt.i... ::r...wr1tW' T  r   L iEiEJ
r          } Y.  T L      .. "  t      _  t'         's.T  ',, 'Y  tF  "ji Juax4  J
W
a-                                 t                                   u                                                           

p*
It  )
fI I'I'
j s r
Cs/1' .
f+:i
E{'

ti

. ,       y            _           .n     ,                                                                w


2
-'I
/1f
I
I

their hands, with which they gathered up
and flung out the snow by gowpens, and
ere this had been long continued, they
succeeded in extricating the very girl, ex-
actly eight days from the time she had
been buried. You may guess it was a
moment of agonizing perturbation which
succeeded the discovery that- she was
alive !
On coming to the tree and. not finding
her lover there, she drew her plaid tight
around her, and sat down to wait. She
conjectured that the cold had madesher
drowsy, and the snow falling thick upon
her, when she awoke she was unable to
move, and felt\herself as if alive in her
grave, and cut off from the living world.
Her lover was full of sorrow and expla-
nations. "If he had but thought she
could have ventured out on such a night,
he never would have failed to keep his
word," &amp;c. Every young man's mind
will suggest the proper thing to be said
on the occasion; but Lizzy, who could
scarcely be suspected of bestowing any
but cold looks at such a time, took no
notice of him whatever. The country
people who accompanied him had a sup-
ply of cordials, and he was loud and ear-
nest in enjoining them to "give her some-
thing warm instantly ;" and a glass of
spirits was offered, which she gravely
pushed aside. "Give me a glass of wa-_
ter," said she; "its a cauld heart that
canna warm a drink to itsel'."
Her Joe was ardent in his addresses,
but she repulsed him with endless scorn.
Whether she ever took a husband or not,
I have - forgotten, but it is certain she
never married him.

t
4
shy
'             n                    ,
r                                                                                 r               k
^                                                                                          "             - 1           - - 4 r'          " .    '       a    . ri  , Y                               w    hey
a i3' y,!" , _ " ao r  r  r"; a f'°'i: 7i'i.1P  l\$i '"  . ,f '  a',    ''*,     ' r  5,   M;^"? r1 r8''t "4.-;.s  . ,x R1'  sLPr +r'^   +i,        r, 5 %N' :.,   ,      r        ,  ,,,:1"',  isL,,.  ,            -c,  ...    .         _   _ 1  k" . ,
.t
9

THE QUEEN OF THE MEADOW.
BY MISS MITFORD.

IN a winding unfrequented road, on
the south side of our village, close to a
low, two-arched bridge, thrown across a
stream of more beauty than consequence,
stood the small irregular dwelling, and
the picturesque buildings of Hatherford
Mill. It was a pretty scene on a sum-
mer afternoon, was that old mill, with its
strong lights and shadows, its low-brow-
ed cottage covered with the clustering
Pyracantha, and the clear brook which,
after dashing, and foaming, and brawling,
and playing off all the airs of a mountain
river, while pent up in the mill-stream,
was no sooner let loose, than it subsided
into its natural peaceful character, and
crept quietly along the valley, meander-
ing through the green woody meadows,
as tranquil a trout stream, as ever Izaak
Walton angled in.
Many a traveller has stayed his step
to admire the old buildings of Hatherford
Mill, backed by its dark orchard, especi-
ally when its accompanying figures, the
jolly miller sitting before the door, pipe
in mouth, and jug in hand, like one of
Teniers' boors, the mealy miller's man
with his white sack over his, shoulders,
carefully descending the out-of-door steps,
and the miller's daughter, flitting about
amongst her poultry, gave life and motion
to the picture.1
The scenery at the other end of the
road was equally attractive, in a different
style. Its principal feature was the great
farm of the parish, an old manorial house,
solid and venerable, with a magnificent
6

clump of witch elms in front of the porch,
a suburb of out-buildings behind, and an
old-fashioned garden with its rows of es-
paliers, its wide flower-borders, and its
close filberd-walk, stretching like a cape
into the waters, the-strawberry beds, slo-
ping into the .very stream: so that the
cows, which in sultry weather, came
down' by twos, and by threes, from the
opposite meadows, to cool themselves in
the water, could almost crop the leaves
as they stood.
In my mind, that was the pleasanter
scene of the two; but such could hardly
have been the general opinion, since nine
out of ten passers by, never vouchsafed
a glance at the great farm, but kept their
eyes steadily fixed on the mill; perhaps
to look at the old buildings, perhaps at
the miller's young daughter.
Katy Dawson was accounted by com-
mon consent the prettiest girl in the par-
ish. Female critics in beauty would be
sure to limit the commendation by assert-
ing that her features were irregular, that
she had not a good feature in her face,
and so forth; but these remarks were al-
ways made in her absence, and no sooner
did she appear than even her critics felt
the power of her exceeding loveliness.
It was the IHebe look of youth and health,
the sweet and joyous expression, and
above all, the unrivalled brilliancy of co-
loring, that made Katy's face, with all its
faults, so pleasant to look upon. A con-
plexion of the purest white, a coral lip,
and a cheek like the pear, her namesake,
85

Ay~pa 1 v..,.a                ..   .,                                                .1.   ,  ."   t.JF      P   '    m r ;.  .,             ,            tF   s           f, i..a ,+

THE TRUSTING TREE.
FROM
REAL LIFE, OR THE PORTFOLIO OF A CHRONICLER."

JOURNEYING one day along a muirland
road not far from Stirling, we passed a
very. fine old tree in a field at a short
distance. I remarked its beauty, to which
Simon assented, but seemed a while ab-
sorbed in recalling recollections associ-
ated with it. At last he said, pausing and
looking hack on the tree: "That sturdy
old plant of other years, reminds me of
an incident which displayed a striking
trait of character of the true old Scottish
breed. That is, or was, called the Tryst-
ing Tree, and there a country lass-had
consented to meet her sweetheart one
winter night, to. arrange matters for the
wedding. The night came, cold and fog-
gy, and the girl, true to her appointment,
set off silently in the hopes of being
back again before she was missed. It
soon came on a heavy snow, and snowed
all night. The girl was not to be found;
and all the roads round being not only
impassable, but invisible from the depth
of the drift, a whole week passed before
communication was possible with the
neighboring farms, all which time noth-
ing could be heard of her. At length
the news reached-her lover, who was lost
and bewildered with the feelings of won-
der, fear, and jealousy.-On inquiry as to
the time when his betrothed had been last
seen, he found it was the 'night of their
assignation, and the first of the snow.
The Trysting Tree flashed upon his
mind, and hither, with a sturdy band of
pioneers, he bent his course. On reach-
ing the tree they commenced digging all
round it, and soon came to a solid ham-
mock,---Their spades and shovels 'were
then exchanged for the simple labor of

I 1

s;
'e
_ r
0
'y                                                  r
q;-
tw1,                                fA
SjMj ,             H                     "  a                           :J            i - ..,k
..      ......, ice.     ,.r.  .«   .. r  ..r  .. .,  Y wfw.

'3          __
Q  7  r   'C  -1


41~
86    'Phe Queen of the Meadow.
"on the side that's next the sun," were  Soon after the rejection of this most
relieved by rich curls of brown hair, of philosophical of all discarded swains, an
the deep yet delicate hue that one some- important change took place in the neigh-
times finds in the ripest and latest hazle- borhood, in the shape of a new occupant
nuiof, the season. Her figure was well of the great farm. The quiet respectable
sited toher blossom   countenance, old couple, who had resided there for half
rouid, short, and child-like ; add to this, a century, had erected the mossy sun-
"a pretty foot, a merry glance, a passing dial, and planted the great mulberry-tree,
pleasing tongue," andl no wonder that having letd rmined to retire from busi
Katy was the belle of the village.   ness, were succeeded by a new tenant
But gay and smiling though she were, from a distant county, the youngest son
the fair maid of the mill was little acces- of a gentleman brought up to agricultural
sible to wooers. Her mother had long pursuits, whose, spirit and activity, his
been dead, and her father, who held her1 boldness in stocking and cropping, and
as the very apple of his eye, kept her his scientific management of manures and
carefully away from the rustic junketings, machinery, formed the strongest possible
at which rural flirtations are usually begun. contrast with the old-world practices of
Accordingly our village beauty had reach-i his predecessors. All the village was
ed the age of eighteen, without a lover. full of admiration of the mtelhgent young.
d L1-,.. 1  dxnt h._1 d  ff i"nJPr farmer Edward Grev: who being un-

-ohe hau inueeu  ia tL  u ulers on
-from a dashing horse-dealer, who hav-
:ing seen her for five minutes one day,
.when her father called her to admire a'
nag that he was cheapening, proposed for'
her that very night as they were chaffer-
ing about the price, and took the refusal
in such dudgeon, that he'would have left
the house utterly inconsolable, had he not.
contrived to comfort himself by cheating,
the offending papa, twice as much as hey
intended, in his horse bargain.  The-
other proffer was from a staid, thick, so-
ber, silent, middle-aged personage, who
united the offices of school-master and
land-measurer, an old crony of the good
miller's, in whose little parlor he had,
smoked his pipe regularly every Satur-
day evening for the last thirty years, and
who called him still from habit, "Young
Sam  Robinson."   He, one evening as
they sat smoking, outside the door, broke
his accustomed silence, with a formal de-
mand of his comrade's permission to
present himself as a suitor to Miss Katy;,
which permission being, as soon as her
father could speak for astonishment, civ-
illy refused, Master Samuel Robinson
addressed himself to his pipe again, with
his wonted phlegm, played a manful part
in emptying the ale jug, and discussing
the Welch rabbit, reappeared as usual,
en the following Saturday; and to judge
from his whole demeanor, seemed to have
entirely forgotten his unlucky proposal.

ill
H;

married, and of a kindly and sociable dis-
position, soon became familiar with high
and low, and was no where a greater fa-
vorite than with his opposite neighbor,
our good miller.
Katy's first feeling toward her new
acquaintance, was an awe, altogether dif-
ferent from her usual shame-facedness;
a genuine fear of the quickness and talb
ent which broke out not merely in his
conversation, but in every line of his,
acute and lively countenance. There
was occasionally, a sudden laughing light
in his hazel eye, and a very arch and
momentary smile, now seen, and now
gone, to which, becoming as most people
thought them, she had a particular aver-
sion. In short, she paid the young far-
mer, for so he persisted in being called,
the compliment of running.away, as soon
as he came in sight, for three calendar
months. At the end of that time, ap-
pearances mended. First she began to
loiter at the door ; then she staid in the
room: then she listened; then she smi-
led; then she laughed outright; then she
ventured to look up'; then she began to
talk inher turn; and before another month
had passed, would prattle to Edward Grey
as fearlessly and freely, as to her own
father.
On his side, it was clear that the young
farmer with all his elegance and refine-
ment, his education and intelligence, liked

The Queen of the Meadow.'

87

nothing better than this simple village"eandidate put a stop to the dispute, by
lass. He passed over the little humors, declining to come to the poll. So that
proper to her as a beauty and a spoiled the quarrel was, per force, pretermitted.
child, with the kindness of an indulgent A t last, a real and serious anxiety, over-
brother; was amused with her artless- clouded Katy's innocent happiness; and
ness, and delighted with her gaiety. as it often happens, in this world of con-
Gradually he began to find his own tire- tradictions, the grievance took the form
side lonely; and the parties of the neigh- of a gratified wish.
borhood boisterous; the little parlor of  Of all her relations, her cousin Sophy
the miller formed just the happy medi- Maynard had long been her favorite.
um, quietness without solitude, and so- She wa an intelligent, unaffected young
ciety without dissipation-and thither'he woman, a few years older than herself;
resorted accordingly. His spaniel Ran- the daughter of a London tradesmai, ex-
ger, taking possession of the middle of celently brought up, with a great deal of
the hearth-rug, just as comfortably, as if information and taste, and a total absence
in his master's own deinesnes, and Katy's of airs and finery. In person she might
large tabby cat, a dog-hater by profession, almost be called'plain, but there was such
not merely submitting to the usurpation, a natural gentility about her ; her mail-
but even ceasing to erect her bristles on ners were so pleasing, and her conversa.
his approach.                        tion so attractive, that few people, after
So the world waned for three months passing an evening in her society, re-
more. One or two little miffs had, in- membered her want of beauty. She was
.deed, occurred between the parties; once, exceedingly fond of the country, and of
for instance, at a fair held in the next her pretty cousin, who, on her part, look-
town on the first of May. Katy having ed up to her with much of the respectful
been frightened at the lions and tigers fondness of a younger sister, and had
painted outside a show, had nevertheless thought to herself a hundred times, when
been half-led, half-forced into the booth most pleased with their new neighbor,
to look at the real living monsters, by her  how I wish my cousin Sophy could see
ungallant beau. This was a sad offence. Edward Grey," and now that her cousin
But unluckilyour'village damsel had been ;Sophy had seen Edward Grey, poor
so much entertained by some monkeys Katy would have given all that she pos-
and parrots on her first entrance, that she sessed in the world, if they had never
quite forgot to be frightened, and after- met. They were heartily delighted with
wards, when confronted with the royal each other, and proclaimed openly their
bruits, had taken so great a fancy to a mutual good opinion. Sophy praised
beautiful panther, as to wish to have him Mr..Grey's vivacity; Edward professed
for a pet; so that this quarrel passed himself enchanted with Miss Maynard's
away almost as soon as it began. The voice. Each was astonished to find in
second was about the color of a riband,,an the other, a cultivation unusual in that
election riband ; Katy having been much walk of life. They talked,, and laughed,
caught by the graceful person and gracious and sang together, and seemed so happy
manners of a country candidate, who call- that Katy, without knowing why, became
ed to request her father's vote, had taken quite miserable, flew from Edward, avoid.
upon herself to canvass their opposite ed Sophy, shrank away from her kind
.neighbor, and was exceedingly astonished father, and found no rest or comfort, ex-
to find her request refused, on no better cept when she could creep alone to some
plea, than a difference from her favorite in solitary place, and give vent to her vexa-
political opinion, and a previous promise tion in tears. Poor Katy, she could not
.to his opponent. The little beauty, aston- tell what ailed her, but she -was quite
ished at her want of influence, and ren- sure that she was wretched; and then
dered zealous by opposition, began to she cried again.
look grave, and parties would certainly In the meanwhile, the intimacy be-
have run high at Hatherford, had not her tween the new friends became closer and

A3

v
"G'^   'it °..Nt nor  d                 M    K       ,     y                                              '                       Ni .1  ..        ,   .r .t ay 1
.,.  +.   ... .  ..  ,.      8r arYvvr. r                w'.w,-""swh.:.i. .e. a.   t...u.  s. ee.:--aae!^r..  OR.

N
W t                         r }

1-0


*       88                     The Queen of the .Meadow.
closer. There was an air of intelligence long wreath of the woodbine, and the
between them that might have puzzled briony, and the wild vetch, was, or pre-
wiser heads than that of our simple mit- tended to be, deeply engaged in twisting
ler-maiden. A secret--could it be a love the garland round her straw bonnet, and
secret?  And the influence of the gen- answered not a word. She tied on her
*       tieman was so open and avowed, that bonnet, however, and stood by listening,
Sophy, when on the point-of departure~ whilst the other two continued to talk of
consented to prolong her visit to Hather- the symbolic meaning of floivers, quoting
*  ford, at his request, although shme had pre- the well-known lines from  the Winter's
viously resisted Katy's solicitations, anid Tale, and the almost equally charming
the hospitable urgency of her father.  passage from IPhilaster.
Affairs were in this posture, when one  At length Edward, who, during the
fine evening, towards the 'end of June, conversation, had been gathering all that
I         the cousins sallied forth for a walk, and he could collect of the tall almond-
were suddenly joined by Edward Grey, scented, tufts of the. elegant meadow-
when at such a distance from the house, sweet, whose crested blossoms arrange
as to prevent the possibility of Katy's themselves in a plumage so richly deli-
stealing back thither, as had been her cate, said, holding up his nosegay, .. do
usual habit on such oocasions. The path not know what mystical interpretation
they chose led through long narrow mea2 may be attached to this plant in Katy's
dows,.,sloping down, on either side, to 'country art,' but ,it is rmy favorite
the winding stream, enclosed by high amongst flowers; and if I were inclined
hedges, and, seemingly, shut out from the to follow the Easterni manner of court-
world.                              ship, and make love by a nosegay, I
A pleasant walk it was, through those, should certainly send it to plead my
newly-mown meadows,- just cleared of cause. And it shall be so," he added
the fay, with the bright rivulet meander- after a short, pause, his bright and sud-
it        ing /hrough banks so variously beautiful; den smiles illumining his whole counte-
now fringed by rushes and sedges ; now nance ; " the botanical name signifies, the
bordered by little thickets of hawthorn, Queen of the Meadow, and wherever I
and woodbine, -and the brier-rose; now offer this tribute, wherever I place this
overhung by a pollard ash, or a silver- tuft, the homage of umy heart, the proffer
barked beach, or a lime tree in full bios- of my hand shall go also. Oh, that the
'1       'somn. Now a smooth turfy slope, green offering may find favor with my queen !"
to the eye, and soft to the foot; and now Katy heard no more. She turned away
again a rich embroidery of the golden to a little .bay formed by the rivulet,
flag, the purple willow-herb, the blue where a bed of pebbles, overhung by a
forget-me-not, and " a thousand fresh- grassy bank, afforded a commodious seat,
water flowers of several colors," making and there she sat her down, trembling,
the bank as ay as a garden. ..cold, and wretched ; understanding for
It was impossible not to pause in this the first time her own feelings, and wvon-
lovely spot; and Sophy, who had been dering if any body in all the world had
collecting a; bright bunch of pink blos- ever been so unhappy before.
soms, the ragged-robin, the wild rose, the There she sat, with the tcars rolling
crane's-bill, and the fox-glove, or, to use down her cheeks, unconsciously making
the prettier Irish name of that superb "rings of rushes that grew thereby,"
di        plant, the fairy-cap, appealed to Katy to and Edward's dog Jianger, who had
"read a lecture of her country art," and been watching a shoal of minnows at

show " what every flower, as country play in the shallow water, and every}
people hold, did signify." A talent for now and then inserting his huge paw
which the young maid of the mill was into the stream, as if trying to catch one,
as celebrated as Bellario. But poor Katy, came to her, and laid his rough head, and
who,. declining Edward's offered arm, his long curling brown ears in her lap,
had loitered a little behind, gathering a and looked at her with "eyes whose hu-
4,
avi                                                         '
T                    c2

F
x
i
i           +   ,,a.
'rH. ",y:

Pauline de .Moulan.
man meaning :did not need the aid of basin of water under those hazels !
speech"---eyes full of piety and of love; Come !"  He put her -hand under his
for Ranger, in common with all the four-  arm, and led her thither ; and there,
footed world, loved Katy dearly: and when mechanically she cast her eyes on
now he looked up in her face, and licked the stream, she saw the rich tuft of
her cold hand. Oh ! kinder and faithful-'Yneadow-sweet, the identical Queen of
ler than your master, thought poor Katy,{the Meadow, waving like a plume, over
as, with a fresh gush of tears, she laid her own straw bonnet : felt herself
her sweet face on the dog's head, and sat1caught in Edward's arms; for between
in that position, as it seemed to her, for1surprise and joy, she had well nigh fld-
ages, whilst her companions were hook- len ; and when, with instinctive modesty,
ig an   landing some white water-id- she escaped from his embrace, and took
les.                                11refugc with her Cousin, the first soundl
At last they approached, and she arose that she heard was Sophy's affectionate
hastily and trembling, and walked onjwhisper,-pI knew it all the timeKaty.!
anxious to escape observation. " Your every body knew it but you! and the
garland is loose,1aty," said Edward,1 wedding must be next week, for 1 have
lifting his hand to  er bonnet: " Come promised Edward to stay and be bride's-
and see how nicely I have fastened it" i '                             n
a~ eeae  ir  yhn haeaa e    othem aidarni the very next week they
No clearer mirr r than the dark smooth were married
PAUJLINE DE MOULAN.

A young lady of good family in ParisjMany a time and oft, in the solitary
was deprived of the friend who had chamber, she would cast down her pen
brought her up, and was compelled to looklin despairing lassitude ; but the difficulty
out for some source of support for her- of seeing any better mode of mainte-
self. She had received a good education,nance made her always lift it anew, with
and having a taste for literature, made an revived determination. Her efforts were
attempt to gain her bread by the use of at length rewarded with something like
the pen. She sent various little stories success. Her essays found favor with the
and other contributions to several of the managers of the periodical paper called
newspapers; but all her pieces were too the Publiciste, and she became a regular
long or too short, too grave or too light! contributor to its pages, being paid for
-any thing, in short, but entitled to re- her labors in such a manner as to main-
ception.  Had Pauline not possessed tain herself in comparative comfort. She
uncommon energies, as well as uncom- became even the object of considerable
mon abilities, she would have found it notice, and was occasionally an invited
impossible to fight her way through the member of the literary soirees so com-
briery path that leads to literary success. ;mon among the Parisians

I-

; ,

1a  7,
"4h/ 4'
7j+L    '
P ti
4 ell74

1'77'7

,        '-1i' n     '..nioe  s." '4[dAryaQaiwY G.. wew
i°

:  .


t  yl"y, wv M4. t4                                      4 4 Wry'f«..  . 't.,.. ,  v.  + r  +.(
1                             -,
90                         Pauline de Moulan.
At M. Suard's, in particular, a well sured to her in her illness, and she re.
known member of the world of litera- covered that health which distress of
ture, Pauline met and mingled with ma- mind might otherwise have aided to keep
ny of the rising people of talent, male back.
and female, in the French metropolis. Pauline's correspondent dropped his
Things continued thus until Pauline fell labors when she was enabled to resume
ill, and became unable to send her contra- her own. it may be imagined that her
butions as usual to the Publiciste. Un- mind dwelt much on this circumstance,
luckily for her, the capital supplied too and she longed to know and thank her
many young persons of literary ability to benefactor. She was not long left n the
make the cessation of her labors a mat- dark. A pale slender young man, with
ter of much consequence to the, people a mild and expressive countenance, called
with whomn she communicated.     She upon her and modestly revealed himself
was sensible of this, and her sick-bed as her unknown assistant. He was im.
was harassed by fears of indigence and mediately recognized by the young con.
distress. But at this moment, a kind tributor of the Publiciste as one whom
though unknown assistant stepped in to she had seen at M. Suard's, and who had
relieve her terrors, and save her from fall- won for himself the repute of being one
ing a prey to the evils in prospect. of the most promising young men of the
One morning while musing sadly on her day. He also had seen her at M. Su-
state, she received a packet, which pro-.arl's, and it was from no common feel-
ved on being opened, to contain a contri- ings that he had been induced to act as
bution, in her own line and manner, for has been related. After their first inter-
the Pub/iciste. It was accompanied by a view, they saw each other again and
note, in which the writer stated his in- again, and Pauline soon learned to recip-
tention to send her a similar paper at reg- rocate the affection which the other had-
ular intervals, hoping at the same time already conceived for her. They were
that they might be accepted in place of married. At this day they live happily
her own, until she was well enough to with each other; and while the husband
resume her tasks. The hand writing fills one of the highest places in the Sen-
of the note and paper were unknown ate and literature of his country, the wife,
to Pauline, and she could form no guess while holding no ignoble station also in
who was their author. The promise the world of letters, is elevated high
made, was fulfilledhowever. Articles of among the, matrons of France. Reader,
a fitting kind were regularly sent, and the parties of whom we have been speak-
they procured for the young invalid, from ing are Monsieur and Madame Guizot.
the conductors of the Publiciste, the The "Letters on Education," and other
~  same remuneration that her own toils had works of the latter, showv her to be a
produced.      .     .    ..   '     worthy partner of a statesman and his-
* All necessary comforts were thus as- torian. so distinguished as M. Guizot,.
I-

( 
r -
1                                                                                                                    r4,.                                                                                     4._

- "''10..Vy I Yk
. ?
i    I
,a
[.
^ a
T '"i
"                +

THE WINE MERCHANT'S STORY.
BY THE AUTHOR OF
"THE KING'S OWN."
[The following amusing story is one of the series in imitation of the Arabian Nights. A Pacha
is supposed to depireaa similar amusement, and to hear original tales, to whichaend he sallies forth
in company with hisvizier. When they meet with person likely to tell a good story, lie.i
ordered to the palace. OWe of thee, thus relates the particulars of his eventful life]

I AM a Greek by birth ; my parents
were poor people residing at Smyrna. I
was an only son, and brought up to my
father's profession, that of a cooper.
When I was twenty years old, I had bu-
ried both of my parents, and was left to
shift for myself. I had been for some time
in the employ of a Jewish wine mer-
chant ; and I continued there for three
years after my father's death, when a
circumstance occurred which led to my
subsequent prosperity and my present
degradation.
At the time I am speaking of, I had by-
a strict diligence and sobriety, so pleased
my employer, that I had risen to be his
foreman ; and although I still. superin-
tended, and occasionally worked at the
cooperage, I was entrusted with the draw-
ing off and fining of the wines, to pre-
pare them for the market. There was
an Ethiopian slave, who worked under
my orders, a powerful, broad shouldered,
-and most malignant wretch, whom my
master found it almost impossible to
manage ; the bastinado, or any other pun-
ishment, he derided, and after the appli-
cation only became more sullen and dis-
contented than before.  The fire that
flashed from his eyes, upon any faults be-I

ing found by me on account of his negli-
gence, was so threatening, that I every
day expected I should be murdered. I
repeatedly requested my master to part
with him; but the Ethiopian being a
very powerful man, and able when he
chose, to move a pipe of wine without
assistance, the avarice of the Jew would
not permit him to accede to my repeated
solicitations.
One morning I entered the cooperage,
and found the Ethiopian fast asleep by
the side of a cask which I had been
wanting for some time, and expected to
have been ready. Afraid to punish him
myself, I brought my master to witness
his conduct. The Jew, enraged at his
idleness, struck him on the head withone
of the- staves. The Ethiopian sprung
up in a rage, but on seeing his master
with the stave- in his hand, contented
himself with muttering, "That he would
not remain to be beaten in that manner,"
--and re-applied himself to his labor. As
soon as my master had left the cooper-
age the Ethiopian vented his anger upon
me for having informed against him, and
seizing the stave, flew at me with the in-
tention of beating out my brains. I
stepped behind the cask; he followed
91

* ~ a4.444~4~4~~\ ~
V                   V

°
A.   '    _+

-            'k1 i                                                                   .
r "M1  ,   "i''T i      t              "tr '} ,' P j'P 1 Te      ""a      ,4   '     M1


92                   the Wine Merchant's Story.

fi                                                n
P  Y
i Ey'j II_
1 i
l           M
±
Al"

me, and just as I had seized an adze to
defend myself, he fell over the stool which
lay) in his way-he was springing up to
renew the attack, when 1 struck -him a
blow with the adze which entered his
skull, and-laid him dead at my feet.
I was very much alarmed at what had
occurred; for although I felt myself jus-
tified in self-defence, I was aware that
my master would be very much annoyed
at the loss of the slave, and as there was
no witnesses, it would go hard with me
when brought before the cadi.  After
some reflection I determined, as the slave
had said "He would not remain to be
beaten," that I would leave my master to
suppose he had run away, and in the
mean time conceal the body. But to ef-
fect this was difficult, as I could not take it
out of the cooperage without being per-
ceived. After some cogitation, I decided
upon putting it into the cask, and head-
ing it up. It required all my strength to
lift the body in, but at last I succeeded.
Having put in the head of the pipe, I
hammered down the hoops and rolled it
into the store, where I had been waiting
to fill it with wine for the next year's de-
mand. As soon as it was in its place, I
pumped off the wine from the vat, and
having filled up the cask and put in the
bung, I felt as if a heavy load had been
removed from my mind, as there was no
chance of immediate discovery.
I had but just.cdmpleted my task, and
was sitting down on one of the settles,
when my master came in, and inquired
for the slave. I replied that he had left the
cooperage, swearing that he would work
go more. Afraid of losing him, the Jew
hastened to give notice to the authorities,
that he might be apprehended ; but after
some time, as nothing could be heard of
the supposed run-a-way, it was imagined
that he had drowned himself in a fit of sul-
lenness, and no more was thought about
him. In the mean while I continued to
work there ,as before, and as I had the
charge of everything, I had no doubt but
that, some day or another, I should find
means of quietly disposing of my incum-
brance.            '.
The next spring, I was busy pump-
ing off from one cask into the other, ac-

Th           ieMecats  tr.9

A

i
E
i
i

-,
'
E
.,  .
Ir
Tjl
'
i
,, . ,
(
t
x'
r

4
;f
:
a}i
l1
t,
,.
4
u
c
-
,
4
7  k
! }
r"
3
.i
t
.
e
r}
Y,             #
l      '
.'                ,l t
'R
.yam .
...nr  .....y u..u t- -..'-  "a. + "' " i.f M  1  ':a1N~etM: Si 'dLRL A ?

4-

:7 .5 77
f.                                      Vj
",              .       /  Y'          ,        ."      rid    .          al.    . a;e      p Y.'t fJ           rr    R          "   .     a  ,T      r            r'       - r1 Jj'    .. J

.ewe n.s'p.,r~e  e r ..t . .,   r, ,..                _                          "n'r

cording to our custom, when the aga of
the janissaries:came in. He was a great-
wine-bibber, and one of our best custom-
ers. As his dependents were all well
known, it was not his custom to send
them for wine, but to come himself to
the store and select a pipe. This was
carried away in a litter by eight strong
slaves, with the curtains.drawn close, as
if it had been a new purchase which he
had added to his harem. My master
showed him the pipes of wine prepared'
for that year's market,'which were ar-
ranged in two rows ; and I hardly need
observe that the one containing the Ethi-
opian was not in the foremost. After
tasting one or two which did not seem
to please him, the aga observed, " Friend
Issachar, thy tribe will always put off
the worst goods first, if possible. Now
I have an idea that there is better wine
in the second tier, than in the one thou
hadt recommended. Let thy Greek put a
spile into that cask," continued he, point-
ing to the very one in which I had headed
up the black slave. As I made sure that as
soon as he had tasted the contents he would
spit them outs I did not hesitate to bore
the cask and draw off the wine which I
handed to him. He tasted it and held it-
to the light-tasted it -again and smacked
his lips-then turning to my master, ex-
claimed "Thou dog of a Jew ! wouldst
thou have palmed off upon me vile trash,
when thou hadst in thy possession wine
which might be sipped with the Houris
in Paradise ?"
The Jew appealed to me if the pipes
of wine were not all of the same quality;
and I confirmed his assertion.
" Taste it then," replied the aga," and
then taste the first which you recoi-
mended me."
My master did so, and was evidently
astonished. " It certainly has more
body," replied he; "yet how that can
he, I know not. Taste it, Charis."-I
held the glass to my lips, but -nothing
could induce me to taste the contents. I
contented myself with agreeing with my
in aster, (as I most conscientiously could,)
"that it certainly had more body. in it
than the rest."
The aga was so pleased with the wine,

that he tasted two or three more pip(
of the back tier, hoping to find others o
the same quality, probably intending
have laid in a large stock ; but finding r
other of the same flavor, he ordered h
slaves to roll the one containing the bod
of the slave into the litter, and carried
to his own house.
"Stop a moment,,thou lying Kafir
said the Pacha,."dost thou really mean t
say that the wine was better than the rest?
"Why)should I tell a lie to your sul
lie Highness-am I not a worm th
you may crush ? As I informed you,
.did not taste it, your Highness ;" but a
ter the aga had departed, my master ex
pressed his surprise at the excellence o
the wine, which he affirmed to be supe
nrior to anything that he had ever taste
--and his sorrow that the aga had' take
away' the cask, which prevented hir
from ascertaining the cause. But on
day I was narrating the circumstance t
a Frank in this country, who expresse
no surprise at the wine being improved
He had been a wine merchant in Eng
land, and he informed me that it was th
custom there to throw large pieces of
raw beef into the wine to feed it; an
that some particular wines were ver
much improved thereby.
",Allah Kebir ! God is great !" crie
the Pacha,--then it must be so--I hav
heard that the English are very fond of
beef. Now go on with thy story."
Your Highness cannot imagine th(
alarm which I felt when the cask wac
taken away by the aga's slaves. I gave
myself up for a lost man, and resolve(
upon immediate flight from Smyrna. I]
calculated the time that it would take for
the aga to drink the wine, and made my
arrangements accordingly. I told my
master that it was my intention to leave
him, as I had an offerto go into business
with a relation at Zante. My master,
who could not well do without me, en-
treated me to stay ; but I was positive.
lie then offered me a share of the busi-
ness if I would remain, but I was not to
be persuaded. Every rap at the door, I
thought that the aga and his jamissaries
were coming for me ; and I hastened my
-departure, which was fixed for the fol-

es lowing day,-when in the evening my
)f master came into the store with a paper
to in his hand.
o   "Charis," said he," perhaps you have
is supposed that I only offered to make you
y a partner in my business to induce you
it to remain, and then to deceive you. To
prove the contrary, here is a deed drawn
up by which you dare a partner, and- enti-
to tied to one third of the future profits.
" Look at it, you will find that it has been
b- executed in due form before the cadi."
at He had put the paper into my hand,
I and I was about to return it with a refu-
f- sal, when a loud knoek at the door start-
c- led both. It was a party of janissaries
f despatched by the aga, to bring us to
- him immediately. I-knew well enough
d what it must be about, and I cursed my
n folly for having delayed so long; but the
n fact was, the wine proved so agreeable to
e the aga's palate, that he had -drank it
o much faster than usual; besides which,
d the body of the slave took up at least a
1. third of the cask, and diminished the
- contents in the same proportion. There
e was no appeal, and no escape. My mas-
f ter, who was ignorant of the cause, did
d not seem at all alarmed, but willingly ac-
y companied the soldiers. I, on the con-
trary, was nearly dead from- fear.
I   When we arrived, the aga burst out in
e' the most violent exclamations against my
master-" Thou rascal of a Jew !" said
he, " dost thou think that thou art to im-
e pose upon a true believer, and sell him a
s pipe of wine which is not more than
two-thirds full, filling it up with trash of
1 some sort or another. Tell me, what it is
that is so heavy in the cask now that it is
r empty ?"
r   The Jew protested his ignorance, and
appealed to me: I of course, pretended
the same. " Well then," replied the
aga, "we will soon see. Let thy Greek
send tor his tools, and the cask shall be
opened in our presence; then perhaps
thou wilt recognize thiuie own knavery."
Two of the janissaries were des patch-
ed for the tools, and'when they arrived I
was directed to take the head out of the
cask. I now considered my death as
certain-nothing buoyed me up but my
observing that the resentment of the aga

The Wine Merchant's Story.

93


94  Te Wne Mrchnt' Stoy.                                          he  ine  erc~an's 5torp                  9

was levelled more against my master
than against me; but still I thought that,
when the cask was opened, the recogni-
tion of the black slave must immediately
take place, and the evidence of my mas-
ter would fix the murder upon me.
It was with a trembling hand that I
obeyed the orders of the aga-the head
of the pipe was taken out, and to the
horror of all present, the body was ex-
posed; but instead of being black, it had
turned white, from the time it had been
immersed. I rallied a little at this cir-
cumstance, as, so far, suspicion would
be removed.
" Holy Abraham !" exclaimed my
master, "what is that which I see !-A
dead body, so help, me God !-but 1
know nothing about it-do you Charis?"
I vowed that I did not, and called the Pa-
triarch to witness the truth of my asser-
tion. But while we were thusexclaim-
ing, the aga's eyes were fixed upon my
master with an indignant and deadly stare
which spoke volumes; while the remain-
der of the people who were present, al-
though they said nothing, seemed as if
they were ready to tear him into pieces.
"Cursed unbeliever !" at last uttered
the- Turk, " is it thus thou preparost the
wine for the disciples of the prophet ?"
" Holy father Abraham !-- I know
no more than you do, aga, how that
body came there ; but I will change the
cask with pleasure, and will send you
another."
" Be it so," replied the aga; "my
slaves shall fetch i4 now." He gave- di-
rections accordingly, and the litter.soon
re-appeared with another pipe of winery
"It will be a heavy loss to a poor
Jew-one pipe of good wine," observed
my master, as it was rolled out of the
litter ; and took up his hat with the in-
tention to depart.
" Stay," cried the aga, "I do not mean
to rob you of your wine."
"QOh, then you will pay me for it,"
replied my master; "aga, you are a con-
siderate man."
" Thou shalt see," retorted .the aga,
who gave directions to his slaves to
draw off the wine 'in vessels. -As soon
as the pipe was empty, he desired me to

94

ake the head out; and when I had obey-
ed hirh, he ordered his janissaries to put
my master in. In a minute he was gag-
ged.and bound, and tossed into the pipe;
and I was directed to put in the head as
before.
I was very unwilling to comply, for I.
had no reason to complain of my master,
and knew that he was punished for the
fault of which I had been guilty. But it'
was a case of life or death,-and the
days ofself-devotion have long passed
away in our country. Besides which, I
had the deed in my pocket by which I
was a partner in the business, and my
master had no heirs,-so that I stood a
chance to come into the whole .of his
property.
Moreover- -
"Never mind your reasons," observed
the Pacha, "you headed him up in the
cask-go on."
" I did so, your Highness ; bt al-
though I dared not disobey, I assure you
that it was vith a sorrowful heart-the
more so, as I did not know the fate
which might be reserved for myself."'
As soon as the head was in, and the
hoops driven on, the aga desired his
slaves to fill the cask up again with the
wine ;- and thus did my poor master per-
ish.
"Put in the bung, Greek," said the
aga, in a stern voice. .
I did so, and stood trembling before him.
" Well! what knowest thou of this
ti'ansaction ?"
I thought as the aga had taken away,
the life of my master, that it would not
hurt him if I took away a little from his
character. I answered that I-really knew
nothing, but that the other day, a black
slave had disappeared in a very suspi-
cious manner-that my master made
very little inquiry after him-and I now
strongly suspected that he must have suf-
fered the same fate. I added, that my
master had expressed himself very sorry
that his highness had taken away the
pipe of wine, as he would have reserved
it.
" CursedJew !" replied the aga ; " I
don't doubt but that he has murdered a
dozen in the same manner."

.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      '    
++c      .,y .ri",...,     ,.t  .r.  Ntq.n ;  ...v.,.                          y                                                      .     a       r '+  +.w.t.=way! R ."hrswe. r _                                   4r_  p  "    uM6 G"w+: tiu..hlrY,?       + R. KRi+' Iti(i's°#i!' 's 7ts'Ne.Mt vMewv, , 'ilji,.' '
' ,    y+                     ;?             . -  ,         .. , x i .      +-.!r a     .. .. , ~                                     y b",;1rra..+a++ r+:w+ we wYW+w WG.:r .w.sRlda M4rhv .  p w+s  .1+r.tiws }R  f"
4+.(r  .+'6 a1W.w f- K a +NK 1d'*'d' ' .riufi vuie i   re«w: :.4arr «sa..isr  .ai e."a+h 'i'yF'eaL.,u. .v,.. !A++cr +w-.."" awnLfsris rr4b +fk+                                ,     .                             _                      r                                                                 _

k   j '' I,

N F." f                                                                                     _        y

k
r
1*
j''         *
}       r   .4
Y(    My
w a         1 -,i
$!T"          -

4

The Wine Merchant's Story.

'" I am afraid so, sir," replied I, "and
I suspect that I was to have been hip
next victim; for when I talked of going
away, he persuaded me to stay, and gave
me this paper, by which I was to become
his partner with one third of the profits
I presume that I should not have enjoyed
them long."
"Well, Greek, " observed the ga
"this is fortunate for you; as, upo  cer
tam conditions, you may enter upon the
whole property. One is, that you keep
this pipe of wine with the rascally Jew
in it, that I may have the pleasure occa-
sionally to look at my revenge. You
tvill also keep the pipe with the other
body in it, that it may keep my anger
alive. The last is, that you will supply
me with what wine I may require of the
very best quality, without making any
charge. I)o you consent to these terms,
or am I to consider you as a party to this
infamous transaction ?"
I hardly need observe that the terms
were gladly accepted. Your Highness
must be aware that nobody thinks much
about a Jew. When I was questioned
as to his disappearance, I shrugged up
my shoulders and told the inquirers, con-
fidentially, that the aga of the janissaries
had put him in prison, and that I was
carrying on the business until his re-
lease.
In compliance with the wishes of the
aga, the two asks containing the Jew
and the Ethiopian slave, were placed to-
gether on settles higher than the rest, in
the centre of the store. He -would come
in the evening, and rail at the cask con-
tainings my late master for hours at a
time; during which he drank so much
wine, that it wan a very common circum-
stance for him to remain in the house
until the next morning.
You must not suppose, your Highness,
that I neglected 'to aail myself (un-
known to the aga) of the peculiar prop-
erties of the wine which those casiks
contained. EI had them spoiled und!er-
neath, and constantly running off the
wine from them, filled them up afresh.
In a short time there was not a gallon in
my possession which had not a (lash in.
it of either the Ethiopian or the Jew;

I and my wine ,was so improved, that it
s had a most rapid sale, and I became rich.
All went on prosperously for three
years ; when the aga, who during that
time had been my constant guest, and at
'least three times a-week had been intoxi-
I cated in my house, was ordered with his
troops to join the Sultan's army. By
, keeping company with him, I had insen-
-4sibly imbibed a taste for wine, although I
never had been inebriated. The (lay that
his troops marched, he stopped at my
door, and dismounting from his Arabian,
cme in to take a farewell glass, desiring
his men to go on, and that he would ride
after them. One glass brought on anoth-
er, and the time flew rapidly away. , The
evening closed in, and the aga was, as
usual, in a state of intoxication ;-he in-
sisted upon going down to the store, to
rail once more at the cask containing the
body of the Jew. We had long been on
the most friendly terms, and having this
night drank more' than usual, I was in-
cautious enough to say-" Prithee, aga,
do not abuse my master any ipore, for he
has been the making of my fortune. I
Will tell you a secret, now that you are
going away-there is not a drop of wine
in my store that has not been flavored
either by him, or by the slave in the oth-
er cask. That is the reason why it is so
much better than other people's."
" How!" exclaimed'the aga, who was
now almost incapable of speech,--" Very
well,- rascal Greek! die you shall, like
your master. Holy prophet!-what a
state for a Musselman to go to Paradise--.
impregnated with the essence of a cur-
sed Jew !-Wretch! you shall die--you
shall die."
He made a grasp at me, and missing
his foot, fell on the ground in such a
state of drunkenness as not to be able to
get up again. I knew that when he be-
came sober, he would not forget what
had tiiken place. and that I should be
sacrificed to his vengeance. The fear of
death, and the wirie which I had drunk,
decided me how to act. I dragged him
into an empty pipe, put the head in,'
hooped it up, and rolling it into the tier,
filled it with wine. Thums did I revenge
my poor master, and relieved myself from

The Tine M rchant's Story-

95

I

3r


96

-any further molestation on the part of
the aga.
As soon a I had bunged up the cask,
I went down to the yard where the aga
had left his horse, and having severely
wounded the poor beast with his sword,
1 left it loose that it might gallop home.
The noise of the horse's hoofs in the
middle of the night, aroused his family,
and when they discovered that it was
wounded and without its rider, they im-
agined that the aga had been attacked and
murdered by banditti, when he had fol-
lowed his troop. They sent to me to
ask at what time he had left my house ;
I replied an hour after dark-that he
was very much intoxicated at the time
and had left his sabre, which I returned.
They had no suspicion of the real facts,
and it was believed that he perished on
the road..-
I was now rid of my dangerous ac-
quaintance, and although he certainly had
drank a great quantity of my wine, yet I
recovered the value with interest, from the
flavor which .I obtained from his body
and imparted to what I had left. I raised
him up alongside of the two other casks ;
and my trade was more profitable and
my wines in greater repute than ever.
But one day the cadi, who had heard
my wine extolled, came privately to my
house ; I bowed to the ground at the
honor conferred, for I had long wished
to have him as a customer. I drew some
of my best-" This, honorable Sir,"
said I, presenting the glass, "is what I
call my aga wine: the late aga was so
fond of it, he used to order a whole cask
at once to his house, and had it taken
there in a litter."
"A good plan," replied the cadi,"much
better than sending a slave with a pitch-
er, which gives occasion for remarks: I
will do the same; but first let me taste
all you have."
-He tasted several casks, but none plea-
sed him so much as the first which 'I had
recommended. At last he cast his eyes
upon the three casks raised above the
others.
" And what are those ?" inquired he.
" Empty casks, Sir," replied I; but he
had his stick in his hand and he struck one.i

"Greek, thou tellest me these casks
are.empty, but they do not sound so; I
suspect thou hast better wine than I have
tasted: draw me off from these immedi-
ately." 
I was obliged to comply-he tasted
them-vowed that the wine was exqui-
site, and that he would purchase the
whole. I stated that the wine in those
casks was used for the flavoring the rest;
and that-the price was enormous, hoping
that he would not pay it. He inquired
how muc h-I asked him four times the
price of the other wines.
"Agreed," said the cadi; "it is dear
-but one cannot have good wine with-
out paying for it :-it is a bargain."
I was very much alarmed ; and sta-
ted that I could not part with those casks,
as I should not be able to carry on my
business with reputation, if I lost the
means of flavoring my wines, but all
in vain ; he said I had asked a price and
he had agreed to give it. Ordering his
slaves to bring him a litter, he would not
leave the store until the whole of the
casks were carried away, and thus did
I lose my Ethiopian, my Jew, and my
aga.
As I knew that the secret would soon be
discovered, the very next day I prepared
for my departure. I received my money
from the cadi, to,whom I stated my in-
tention to leave, as he had obliged me to
sell him those wines, and I had no longer
hopes of carrying on my business with
success. I again begged him to allow
me to have them back, offering him three
pipes of wine as a present if he would
consent, but it was no use. I chartered
a vessel, which I loaded with the rest of
my stock: and taking all my money
with me, made sail for Corfni, before any
discovery had taken place. But we en.
countered a heavy gale of wind, which
after a fortnight, (during which vbe at-
tempted in vain to make head against it)
forced us back to Smyrna. When the
weather moderated, I directed the c'ap-
tain to take the vessel into the-outer road-
stead, thatI might sail as soon as possi-
ble. We had not dropped anchor again
more than five minutes when I perceived
ia boat pulling off from the shore, in

r
,
i4
...          .          .,.  ..  - -.- ,.  }1 +a£^ $lf   l                 ."  ."1     ,Y=7 ' '  '.  :                  "J. '   ^ '"Mt'          ."' x    -.r:,7.:;,v .  er "..; t."  ,,.. y.; ' "gtY y  " y Y,';
x.                1                                                                      I                i4  .'             .

I

which was the cadi-and the officers o
justice.
Convinced that I was discovered,
was at a loss how to proceed,' when a
idea occurred to me that I might concea
my own body in a cask, as I had befor
so well concealed those of others.
I called the captain down into the cab
in, and telling him that I had reason t(
suspect that the cadi would take my life
offered him a large part of my cargo if
he would assist me.
The captain, who, unfortunately foi
me, was a.Greek, consented.  We wen
down into the hold, started the wine ou
of one of the pipes, and having taker
out the head, I crawled in, and was hoop.
ed up.
The cadi came on board immediately
afterwards, and inquired for me. The
captain stated that I had fallen over-
board in the gale, and that he had in
consequence returned, the vessel .not
being consigned to any house at Cor-
fu.
"6Has then the accursed villain esca-
ped my vengeance !" exclaimed the cadi;
"the murderer, that fines his wines with
the bodies of his fellow-creatures; but
you may deceive me, Greek, we will ex-
amine the vessel."
The officers who accompanied the cadi
proceeded carefully to search every part
of the ship. Not being able to dis-
cover me, the Greek captain was believ-
ed ; and after a thousand imprecations
upon my soul, the cadi and his people
departed.
I now breathed freer, notwithstanding
I was nearly intoxicated with the lees of
the wine which impregnated the wood
of the cask, and I was anxious to be set
at liberty : but the treacherous captain
had no such intention, and never came
near me. At night he cut his cable and
made sail, and I overheard a conversa-
tion between two of the men, which
made known to me his intentions: these
were to throw me overboard on his pas
sage, anid take possession of my proper-j
ty. I cried out to them from the hung-
hole: I screamed for mercy, but ini vain,.
One of them answered, that, as I mur-
dered others, and put them into casks,

97

if
).
C
r
7

JI4

The Wine Merchant's Story.

- The Wine Merchant's Story.

v                     s

+     ,e       .             J                                                       .,         s   ti             +,        s ,       .   ,3 ., "     C"        Dlr.; ,
3
'                                                                              mil                 *.,        t}

..

f I should now be treated in the same
manner.
I   I could not but mentally acknowledge
n the justice of my punishment, and re-
1 signed myself to my fate ; all that I
e wished was to be thrown over at once
and released from my misery. The mo-
- mentary anticipation of death appeared
o to be so much worse than the reality.
But it was ordered otherwise ; a gale of
wind blew up with such force that the
captain and crew had enough to do to
r look after the vessel, and either I was
t forgotten, or my (loom was postponed un-
t til a more seasonable opportunity.
On the third day I- heard the sailors
- observe that, with such a wretch as I
was remaining on board, the vessel must
inevitably be lost. The hatches were
then opened: I was hoisted up and cast
into the raging sea. The bung of the
cask was out, but by stuffing my handker-
chief in, when the hole was under, water,
I prevented the cask from filling ; and
when it was uppermost, I removed it for
a moment to obtain fresh air. I was dread-
fully bruised by the constant rolling in a
heavy sea, and completely worn out with
fatigue and pain ; I had made up my mind
to let the water in and be rid of my life,
when I was tossed over and over with such
dreadful rapidity as prevented my taking
the precaution of keeping out the water.
After three successive rolls of the same
kind, I found that the cask, which had
been in the surf, had struck on the beach.
In a moment after I heard voices, and
people came up to the cask and rolled
me along. I would not speak, lest they
should be frightened and allow me to re-
main on the beach, where I might again
be tossed about by the waves; but as
soon as they stopped, I called in a faint
voice from the bung-hole, begging them
for mercy's sake to let me out.
At first they appeared alarmed ; but,
on my repeating my request, and stating
that I wvas the owner of the ship which
was off the land, and that the captain
andl crew had mutinied and tossed me
overboard, they brought some tools and
set me at liberty.-
The first sight that met my eyes after
I was released, was my vessel lying a

i
a  -,;  ,

s
x.
f:
M
5a
r
8
11.2
.emu


't~, Y..  ,hf",  '  . .t^~''  '~.°       ad.-!  -.L r'-  ,:x. 4';    r}  i  4s

Jill
. i
fits F
t                   a°i1
Vz
r' 7} !
!S                          -
r                        f                                       ,
y 'e
y   9N
t    1              (    S i
,i,    _r          41       c
u               Y^ /i
*     r          ;t
i                                            "

wreck ; each wave that hurled her tur-
ther on the beach, breaking her more and
more to pieces. She was already-divi-
ded amid-ships, and the white foaming
surf was covered with plpes of wine,
which as fast as they were cast ashore,
were rolled up by the same people who
had released me. I was so worn out,
that I fainted where I lay.  When I
came to, I found myself in a cave upon
a bundle of capotes, and perceived a
party of forty or fifty men, who were sit-
ting by a large fire, and emptying with
great rapidity one of my pipes of wine.
As soon as they observed that I was
coming to my senses, they poured some
wine down my throat, which restored
me. I was then desired by one of them,
who seemed to be the chief, to ap-
proach.
"'lhe men who have been saved from
the wreck," said he, "have - told me
strange stories of your enormous crimes
--now it down and tell me the truth-
if I beli ve you, you shall have justice
-I am , di    e-if you wish to know
where you are, it is upon the island of
Ischia-if you vish to know in what
company, it is in the society of those
who by illiberal people are called pirates :
now tell me the truth."
I- thought that with pirates my story
would be received better than with other
people, and I therefore narrated my his-
tory to them, in the same words that I
now have to your Highness. When I
had finished, the captain of the gang ob-
served :-.-
"Well, then, as you acknowledge to

98

PRICE 25 CENTS.

have killed a slave, to have assisted at
the death of a Jew, and to have drowned
an aga, you certainly deserve death ; but
on consideration of the excellence of the
wine, and the secret which you have im-
parted to us, I shall commute your sen-
tence. As for the captain and the re-
mainder of the crew, they have been
guilty of treachery and piracy o-n the
high seas-a most heinous offence, which
deserves instant death: but as it is by
their means' that we have been put in
possession of the wine, I shall be lenient.
I therefore sentence you all to hard la-
bor for life. You shall be sold as slaves
in Cairo,'and we will pocket the money
and drink your wine."
The pirates loudly applauded the jus-
tice of a decision by which they benefit-
ed, and all appeal on our parts was use-
less. When the weather became more
settled, we were put on board one of
their small xebeques, and on our art ival at
this port were exposed for sale and pur-
chased.
Such, Pacha, is my history, and I
hope you will allow that I have been
more unfortunate than guilty, as, on eve-
ry occasion in which I took away the
life of another, 1 had only to choose be-
tween that and my own.
" Mashallah ! Bounty ! I've given him
his life, and, as he considers it, of more
value than an aga's, J think it is a very
handsome present. Drown an aga, in-
deed I" continued the Pacha, rising, but
it certainly was a very curious story.
Let it be written down, Mustapha.
We'll hear the other man to-morrow.

The Wine Merchant's Story.

CINCINNATI:
PUBLISHED.BY U. P. JAMES,
No. 167 WALNUT STREET.

II

U

t
 '
,f
1
E
'                      C
I
'f
t
,s
tt
.
/   °r
i  E
.j. }r
.               ?} ,
r                   3 i
?
t #,
. _,

TO WHICH 18 ADDED, A
POPULAR EXPOSITION.OF LIEBIG'S THEORY OF LIFE, HEALTH, AND DISEASE.
BY R. J. CULVERWELL, M. D.,
AUTHOR OF " HOW TO BE HAPPY," " DISEASES OF WINTER," ETC., ETC.

I

GUIDE
TO
on
WhAT. TOEAT, BRINK., AND AVOID;
WHAT EXERCISE TO TAKE;
How
TO CONTROL AND REGULATE THE PASSIONS AND APPETITES
AND ON T8E
GENERAL CONDUCT OF LIFE, &amp;c., &amp;c.

d

..._.
:,_
I

,
s
-"
°'h: a.


Vahluabt.rBois, pu bished by U  P JAMES-ontinuedy

.j
t      R
#
f 'i,
lllf  .{
t,
i
1             1
t
(,
E
(
4'
,r
i
=
r
r .
t i
.    lr     t
I
i
,;
i
'
i
r
.
s        f!
}       S
i .
t l
("        +'
1+
C    .
¢y    e'
1
F
4
t
i       t
'
r- .
,}            t
t
f
t(

This is one of the most humorous and laughter-provoking Books of the age. The recital
of the Doctor's numerous scrapes,-the easy familiar style of telling, all conspire to make
it a pleasant companion for traveling or home reading.
U. P. JAMES, Publisher,
167 Walnut Street, Cincinnati.

t      _
qt
1
{f t
1
t

-- -
OR, TllI
R                                          J
RECOLLEUTI NSF A AUKW 0 SMIAN
WHO H1AS TRAVELED MANY THOUSAND MILES ON THIE HIGH WAYS
OF HUMAN DESTINY; BROUGHT ABOUT A REVOLUTION
IN DOMESTIC HAPPINESS, AND EFFECTED A
GENERAL SHAKE-UP OF CREATION.
BY DAVID RATT L E IHEAD     M.D.,
(THE MAN OF SCRAPES), AUTHOR OF THE AREANSAW DOCTOR, ETC., ETC.
Illustrated, an put up in Fancy Cover, Price 50 cents
LEN3&amp;V
OF AN"
BY DAVID RATTLETIEAD, M.D.,
(The 3Ian of grapess,)
With fine Wood-Cut Illustrations, in one volume 12mo,, Fancy Cover,.
PRICE, FIF TY CE~N TS.

/
4

the want of a- work of this natue, the accuracy of which,
could be Implicitly depended upon, has led to many serious
and vexatious- ltigations, all of -whichmiay; hereafter :be
loidedby the aid of this book in addition to thg matter,
designated-n the Synopsis of Contentsagwill-be found- accu-
rat iiformation relative to the law of Homesteads and
j'ersonal Property Exempt from  -Et ee- oin the different
States; ais well as Mechanics'LiensJugient Liens, -etc.,
not-fount in any similarwerk; RecentLaws of Coiigress on
Pre-emption, Land Warrentt, Naturalization, and Pensions.
James' Bilroad and: Soute Boek, obtaining
all the Railroad, Steamboat, and Stage Routes in-the West
and South, the Routes to California and Oregon- With rats
of Fare, Distances, Connections, &amp;c.,Ae. 15 ets;
James' Travelers' Coepa~nion. Being a Com
plete Guide; through the 'Westaed' South,-to the 'Gulf of
Meyico and the Pacific,-via the -Railroads, Lakes, 'Rivers
Canals,'&amp;c. With'Histoilcal Notes, Statistical Tables; and a
vast amount of generalinformation., to which is added
the Railroad and Route Book. Neat cloth binding, 50_cts,
With this book in-his' haadthetraveler in the Qreat West
need have no difficulty in determining his routeto observe
the principalobjects of interest."-blumbian and Great; West.
"This is a carefully compiledlandwell gotten up work, full of
valuable statistics, and most initeresting historical notes.".-
The Citizen.
The Do~ctrine of Future- and        nlesPui.
nept, Logically Proved, in a Critical Examinationof such'
Passages of Scripture as Relate to the Final Destiny of Man.,
By;Rev. REUNE R. Coon. 1 vol., 12mo.,cloth, $1 00.
Raving hastily glanced over the positions in this volume, and
the mode of sustaining them, and regarding the argument
as clear, onvincing, and irrefragible, I cannot but express
the opiulc n, that the doctrine of u~niversalism is fairly met,
and very atisfactorily, and, Imight add, clearly and con-
cisely reft tedi. To those doubting or denying the, future
perdition f ungodly men, I commend the treatise to their
serious an candid consideration.,
A. CAMPBELL, of 1$ethany, Virginia.'
ierr'ey. Meditations and Contemplations. By the Rev.
JAMES HER EY, A. M.,-late Rector of Western Favell, North-
amptonshirp, containing his Meditations among the Tombs,;
'Redeetions in a Flower Garden, together with the Life of,
the Author.' In one neat 16mo. vol., cloth, 50 ets.
Salathiel.     A story of the Past, the Present, and the
Future. By the Rev. GEOiE CROLY, author of the "Life and
{ Times of -teorge - the Fourth," Two vols. in one, 12mo.,
cloth,$1 00- Paper, 2 vols., 60 cts.
Nannah 1 ores  Devotions, The book of Private
Devotion. 4tSeries of Prayers and Meditations; with an
Introductor Essay on Prayer; chiefly from the writings ofj
Hannah Mo e. .32mo., cloth, 25 ets.
ife .of Gen. WMn. H. Harrison.              Sketches of
the Civil and Military Services of Wm. Henry Harrison.
By Todd andi Drake. Revised and enlarged; bringing it to
the death 'of President Harrison, and the removal of his -
remains from Washington to North. Bend. ;By James H.
Perkins. 1   1vol., 18mo., cloth, 35 ets.
Vedder' s     .ymns. ,A choice, selection of Psalms and
Hymns,_,an   Spiritual Songs, designed for the Christian's
Companion through Life. By Nicnoras I. VEDDER. 25 ets.
Lady of t e Lake.         A Poem in six cantos. By Sir
WALTEa S TT. Last revised edition, with an Introduction, b
Glossary, a d Copious Notes, by the author. 82mo., cloth,
85 ets,
Latlaa     ookh.    An Oriental Romances By THonAS
Moon01. 3 mo., cloth, 35 ets.r
Moore's  elodiep. Irish MeodiesM by Thoias     oore,
wth fhe o igimal Pffatory Letter on Music. 32mo., cloth,
Tn   ee    BctTn.APe.                 yRnn      OL
A.M  1   h'aMemir of"*eitAEt, byWilliam  Lngs-
ton Prall, Eq., A cdpious Indexra d an Analysis, prefixed lN
to each  ek. 32ano, cloth, 35 ets.                    N
-Ppr.a'dis .,lost.   A Poem, in T elve Books. ABy .TouN  N
MIron. With Explanatory Notes, a d.a Life of the Author,
by the R vgn. ytebbing,  aM. 82 o., sloth, 3 eta.
l'he A erlean Text Book. useful Pocket Manual, C
of inter st to every Amnerican, eitizer ;containing the Dee- W
laration of Indlependence, the articles of Confederation, the S
Constiidition of the United $ta, es, nid Washington's Fare.
well:Address. 82mso4, cloth, gilt,8 e~ cS

fu'
Lai

Language of Flowver,  d Alphabet of Floral
Eiblens. ,To wliich is 'added,A hES Q' FLORA, and L
the tOMICA{ FLOWER-BASKE   A beautiful minla.
t*"'edition. Semo., eicth,gilt, *0 "c
PiurlAInd VirgiTia. From' the lruech. By . .I
I) o ISTtPoene.

V
S
i
L
1
r
."   =e y
!      V  it i '      ;r
' ,F         ,y   { F
,              i x
kt   ' j'  , !f  F
C
I'/   T  i      '   ~  t

t' '_''A

Tke    chanted rlanas.' Beig Fables in Verse,
M&amp;DAMII MonxozaEu, on' the 'various. Sentiments pet onife4
=in the E'lowers and Plants. B82mo. 'lo,1giltg80 ets.
The Songs o' theAffetion.By Mn. HEar;,            A
slestion of beautifulpieces fromth works of this gifted
Po    tes Esrty on 'l a. To whhi is added his cele
brated tiniviesai Prayer. 32mo.cloth,i et.
Also, an edition of the same,.with Mfisaeous Poems"
32mo., cloth, gilt, 30 ets.  .
Belles-Lettres Letter-Writer        io rthe use of
Ladies and  entlemuen. Containing fernt.f'Letters on the
subjects of Relatiouiship, Friendship, LoveGourtship, Mar.
riage  c, &amp;c. Letrof Introduetion, Cards of Invitation,
&amp;c., ic., original ardaselected, with the etiquetteof letter-
writing. In one vol.',32mo. muslin, gilkte 8s 36sets.
The Popntav rLett       wri      -,teraove
with the additionof Busiess Letters forth  ,of Mechants
and Clerks, Also anApp ;idix in the formof a I .IQTlON-
ARIY OF POETICAL Q OVATIONS fromthe Standard
Poets. Arranged alphabetiply, in one volui of 25pages.
Neatly bound in muslin, '3ts. Half bound, leather back,
25 cts,                                           ,
Pickett's Analyzer an4:E xpositor, containing
'Exercises in English Etymeo eng
Pckett' a rimer; or, First Bk forO ildrei: designed
to precede the Spelling book.' S c
1 alott s   ew     rra                           d
Talbtt'sNew    rithmetic. laSholar's Guide to
the Science of Numbers; containing t oelPrusian ancelling
System,and other important abbrevi icng  ada  toote
use of Common, Schools, Academies,- ai Private , students.
By Jona L. TALBOT.. 25 eta..'
The United States Spelling -Beo i, with appro
private Reading Lessons.. Being an easystai 4ard for'Spel)
ing, Reading, and pronouncing the English Language -By
Sundry, Experienced Teachers. 10 eta.
11ill and Valley,; or, Hands and Machines, AT        e
for the.People. By Miss MARTINEAU. Cloth, 35 ie
Berkeley, the Banker; or, Bank Notes and Bulio
By Miss MARTINEAU. 2_vols.,.cloth, 70 ets.
Charmed Sea; or, Polanders in Siberia. By Miss    mT1-
rNEAU. Cloth, 35ets.
Tales'of the French Revolution; or, Charles and
Antoine Lucyon. By Miss MARnINEIIAU. Cloth,35 eta.
For' Each and -for All; or, Letitia and    Maria'
Mice MARTIN AF. Cloth, 35 ets.
Glen of the Echoes; or, Dan Mahoney andDora Sui
van. By Miss MARTINEAu. Cloth, 35 ets.
Homes Abroad:; or, Frank and Ellen Caltie      Byi
MARTINEAU. Cloth, 35 ets.
[oom  and mugger; or, Weavers and Smugglers.        y
Miss MAETINEAU. 2 vols., cloth, 70,ets.
Life in the Wilds ; or, South African Settlenient.EBy
Miss MARTINEAU.   0 Cloth, 45eta.
Bowers Not Reapers; . or, Chatham and Mary Kay.
By Miss MARTINEAtU.. Cloth, 35.cts.
ew writers of fiction possess the happy faculty of Miss, arti-
neau, in adapting their works 'to the comprehension 'of
youth, and at the sometime making them interesting anl
instructive.
RAUTIFUL &amp; USEFIJL BOOKS F01 CllILDR N
ratulral 1Eistos y of Quadrupeds. 25 eta.
ratturpl DlistolN of ITend .Birds. 254cts.
ratual .Rtistery 'of Water 1Birals. 25 eta,
estuapes of America. 25 eta.
ostunmes of Eugrope. 25ceta.-
aeaite Sporsatid 'Occuapations. 26 ete
to'iels -from the Hifstory of Nomne. 45 eta

tories fromtosk  'story of G-eeee  216ta°
ook of Heroes     _5 etas.
ife atd  Adyenturess 'of  obinson Crs'
ith Illustration ,2 S4.ts.               E
!lR4sBil e.:A yeryaitractivead ~ e ti 'ittl1 b ("l
for =hlidrea. With 25 engravings, neatly bt1&amp;lrd  =
bsaed leather,1Q t.;                 .
..  f   -C,  ,  r  -     of    E  .     . { ' 4}:  yf. '
' '7:- ya

4'

ii
s

I   s  1
.
n-
°  ',  .

t
t
t
1
r
' b

t
R

'                        \.
.l  ^    i
.
d..
                      
'                       f
'   '',           _  .   _..J.

,.  ;
,, '


411

: °au dAdventures of ane Arkausaw         Doctor,
B lAvtA:MTpL5EEAD, M. D., (the Mlln Of Scrapes.) Hand-
')  syomely lltptratedwith fine engravings; illnimat*d cover,
tir60cts. ' ?.
A most amusing fol mpof scrapes and adventures, related in
an o hand graphic style.,
unaiua     lWafto,;or, Trials and Triumph. ByI1iassu
A. Durr  8 vo , paperover, 0 ts.;
The latest and bUst( othis popular and talented authoress's
works,
iakhiatw; or, the Victims of Avarice. A Tale ofxri  t
By WuawgiY. Coeoeu      , author of "Easy W'aren'i d
his'Ootemuporaries," &amp;a. Inpress. Paper cover,'25 ots.
The Coeidv of St. Paul. A Tale of Greece andR me.
By ALsiNl    ' DuIpAS.' Traislated'by len'y.W. Herbert,
Bsq. 8vnS. paper cover,25:eta.
lketcilk hes eW'I a  dcute ai   Adventures in tie
Wet     iustr    with ,umerousivery fine engravings.
Svo.r papr .cov$R25" 't.
e Ruds                   elncderts in aSoldier's Life, designed
10 gi  cor  esp odief lte to those who have not
teied it,An  fes       Meloy of thosewho have. By
:; AnoBO. uEnsn, .uthofr E "Telve months' oIunteer."
illistr ited pa r' oye',  et.
A, trykyeiftertaiuing: td'mthr#vokin b o
S   e   elIdeon     A choice; collection of Songs, Duetts,
Quartettes, Rbrinds a.;iiMabep, with as atory of Music aid'
Mutical Instruments. l1uWst ated vopaper covgr,25 eta.
Zingraihe Gipsy         ByA r       r MZam Manan:.o
papa cover, 50 ets.  'r ;I,                 .
ill    Uc oanel. The Spirit~ =tappigs,,Mesmerism,
Clairvoyaswe,.and Psychontry; rthe  .ife and Tiimes of
Qld Billy MteQgnnel, the Witch Doet; the treatiPrototype
of the; foditn zF6fessors of ;the Imaginati  Seeiees. By
one born,:ongthe W#ches. 8vo.,_    e  o er, 25 eta.
The itetalian o       opfessional of t ee :Blasi, Penitent.
By Mrs. RADoLsrFFE: 8vo, paper cover, 50 eta,
'       .
le A dve tures o  Caleb       i li iams;  or, Thin e
as they ,Are, '.:By 1Vifitt:  Gonwin. v0,piper" re r,'25 ea
This work still sustains its  hareter, as it always has, through
several years, as a tale of hig Konderhad' absorbing interest,
8idfrbi its first appearnceoithiyadergone nnumeral e
reprints;                   '    y.

ie jitemtiog f hhio 1e0tont6 ths
',1   o  M'aIF(uan i nste  A  colecb ofte festmen*,
time,  0arotic.'Naval,   d  oic8ongsccomp0ed.
t   q with l. -' fbciun4,  0 te, paper  cover,  4 1"t Aa
pniA~x~taes       AJ!   A cwo- e-colection of the,
mo tPoplar $ongs, as sung celebrated performers.,
t  fa}I Abourd ,{25 eta,  'aper "co    er,1  ,r. ta i      }o  '
C06'ts 1 pb ~ an  , !!' ei*' {  b te    A' Debate",Oli
Yt e f;oaa4 ~athlic Religion tenMr=1~v:exaader =nlp-
" ell, o  ei} han ,Va , "and An~h ri op.PreeUof ,Clneatk:
;fing ree aad i    ce'. Debate      A. ebate onthe
Dort lines 'of Univral Sl action B weei Rev  . MB. in%
gree,and Rev.N.'C Rice;    lpthy$1 0.
juveuage     Bioo. s     att ra1 Sitory-o  Lad  B~irds
'   vNatural History of, Wator Birds ;Natural H tory of Quad
rupeds ; Jivenle?$,ports1'sid; Oci upatin s ; Costumiee of
America;- Costumne  ;'Btrope. 'tl1 of  gratings. Paper;
covers. 10 ct cs
NNET    g, irOPULA  «NOV      .
'he Prairi      W'ower; or Adventures in the Far West.
r:;                       iBy ErE fion Bennett. New x edition, revised and corrected
by theauthor. .vo., paper Cover, 25 eta.
Leni Leeti. A sequel'to "Prairie Flower." New edition.
8vo., paper dover, 25 ets. z
The.Forest Iose. Atale of theFrontier. By Emerson
Bennett tyo., paper cover;25 ots.
A bookof ma thrillingg and exciting interest.
- gike Fiwik;'a    gend of the Ohio  y Emerson Bennett:
8vo.,papercover, 25ts._
This bool;porrais'vivid   colors,the haands, bloody figts,
and hairbreadth ,e|apes of the early boat en--keel boats"
and "broadhorns" oftheOhio,                  '
la Raraweill::'' An hiatricalhRomance of Border Life.,
By EmersonBennett. 8vo., papedof6e r,'5 et,.
Dniel Boone, the noblespioneer, etul Simort Girty, the rene-
gade, figure coispicuusly in-this Work.

Row    to he flapy    ; or, the Laws of Life, Health, and
Happiness rnderd clear to the hunmblest iteligence. An
Admonitory ESsay for general and family perusal, on Regi-
men, Expediency, and E1 ental Government. By Ro'v. J.
CmLv*ad  Ls{1M. D  Papet cover; 25'cts_
The Last Days of Pompeii. By PE . L. -BULw R
papercover, 25 eta.
lagne Arang. By ]Luxwxa. Paper cover, 25 ets.
Pelham.. By ButaP.. Paper cover, 25 eta.
Ernest iialtravers. By BBiLWER. PaperopeP, 25 ets
Alike, or the Mysteries    A Sequel to Ernest ialtravers
By B   na ~8vo:, paper cover, 25 ets.
Tie Lady ef Lyosy, or, Love and Pride     A play in  e
Acts. BySIR 4. L. Bunwxa. -_Paper'cover, 15 ets.
Japhet in earthh -of -a Father. By MAanvirT.
Two vols, in one, papercoyer, 386 eti.
History of Rinalde Rinaldiul.' Paper cover, 25
history of John A. Mureij the WesternLand Tirate,
and an Exposure of his system of villain. Illustrated.
yv., paper cover, 25 eta.
Rattiehsd's Travel; ortheRecl et16np of a ack'
woodsxian, who has Traveled man Tihoisand  iles on the
Highways of Human Destiny;      gl t bout 'aReygntigei
in Doinestle :Happiness, ank ft t  General 'ha     of
Crertio. TBy DAviD aur R imang M.D., (theMan ofeS.rpes)
author'of'the "Arkaissa  Doctor "'&amp;cr.Ill elitrated, an
putupnFancy Cover. 50 et,
Whites N#eW       ook 'Jo,'   'embracig emperate and
economical gece 1 rdo     at a 4quors And oolcry.  on-
ti  sueb  1l     Ite a* most   i ice. 4,prougr; and
nearly allselected to sit'the-Genral' &amp;t4W;Swell a tb '
'palate.'Po 'whiah iesddid ah{Apend        discelad ,
containing many valuable Receipts in D  etic Econongy,
&amp;c:, o.   g ' By DAintIL T. W gal   Paper cover, 12 eta.
ConpIete Wortrgne Teller and DreauanBook,
or, an infallible Guide to the hidden ) Decrees of Fate. 'By
MADAM' 'odNrssa na, first iof the seven wise 'Mistresses of
Rome. deing'anew and regular system for foretelling Fnu-
ture Events, lby'DIeams, Moles, &amp;c. Paper cover, 12 eta.
Cho-1otte Tenapie, a tale' of Truth. By Mus. RAWsof,
24mio., paper cover, 15 cts.
F'ioare's Ivarrative. 'ANarrative of thie suffering
of John'Fillmore and: others on board Capt. 'hillips Pirate
Vessel; with an account of their daring enterprise and happy
esesape from the tyranny of 'that desperate crew, by captur-
b    eir vessel. Paper cover, 10 eta.
'des in Prague, or, the Signal Roca et; a Remnce
of the Thirty Years' War. Translated  ,1 the .  ssGuz  of
CAROLINE  [LcRER, the eelebrated1'authoress and traveler.
By Jes. H. Has a  8vo., papas cover, 25 ets.
Brave of Pertia and Baron Iuud             asen  .
per cover,   eta.

Any of the books in this Catalogue snt tp y Poet Ofse in
the nited .tatesfreeqf 2bstage ,on receipt of'the price
Address
u.tP.     AiM,
NG. 67 WlnutSt.,Cincnnat, 0

K20

REPRODUCED FROM THE COPY IN THE
HENRY E. HUNTINGTON LIBRARY

FOR REFERENCE ONLY. NOT FOR REPRODUCTION

-i   i' C'ls'6' Tk"
Y       '
{     1 ,
.{                         Y

,r,
~_
,     t,
,_
t.
.
. ,
...
.,
N  '
xi
.
i       ,
'
1

'f; ~
IIf

2
/,
ffC

t               J Y    w
+              l

r ae bma, s  ai Is3    of tl Chest ter eedialand    -
avet iytee::t tneut  Ad ireaed ' poplanguag toew
e.ical reaevs i. p      jper:t o;@ tholet and
1eginnencearyd or;prvlids A'e, an Appeni;1 eon.
:aing.wolgndtedforu41 of theIt     dhost proved
rqesieszan"y y lia ladourestic reetpea,  d fu ldt Tred
t   fo'the pIa      ihation; "    nB n ~(BER JV a OihvaR
ari~a~wd     at iorcs  o   he  o  t  osto
W k4%Mi:,  I   Pap [yer 'piice 26 X16ts
*   idtGaidto  eitl'and L4ln     if4 'or, watto Eat,
:;r r ;  hei;A:thaf t re ' ise ;a o* ~to0rel
; and Regilateth+ Passions abd;Appietites,* dasfattheOne '  :
sigoldu t-of life-wlerebysbealth .ny beb ecured,ha buppy
aid' comfortable old aga stained; that at ;last, when" our
areer is copcluddih wehnty,
'mtIkeripo fruit, drop
ito ou Mother slap, r.'be with ease'
thered, not baishly phucked."- Milton.
To whichis 'da  opula   e    o      g',i.h
Life,rearth, r2dDisease.,ByIo  tT.                   ; ,M
Papervcovor,  2{ ;'eta. °,".  's  i

.  x,
;'
.  , .
;'
rr:
,,
r
,
a
.
;, ,
Ji
,
'
i
i
r
,
;.
F
i
E
S
y
C
y
Y
}
1
1
f
t
.,fit

.;
.
;'

1           ,
r  '       f
Y          I
l

,
if,

f  ,
(
Ir


  
             
         
       
   
