
    ----CITATION----
        Will, the Rover (b. 1817). Rambles in Chili and Life Among the Araucanian Indians in 1836 .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC7511
    ----FULL TEXT----
         
      
         
            Rambles in Chili and life among the Araucanian Indians in 1836 
            
               AND LIFE AMONG THE
'AIAUC ANIAI I DI lS
IN 1836.
PUBLISHERS NOTICE.
p
This book may be regarded as one of the varieties of the day. It is difficult to
canceive, while perusing these Lamnbleswtere adventures so excititig and thrilling
are so forcibly told, that it is a true and veritable narrative; but such,we assure the
reader is the fact. The natural scenery in that sunny region is painted in the glow.
ing tints of a faithfut picture. The character of that singular people, the Arauenni.
ans; the lofty and magnanimous bearing of their warriors; the lovely. confiding,
and affectionate dispositions of the rimaidenus, arc all beautifully delineated; and so
vididly are the various scenes portrayed, that we s een to be transported to the field
where they are etacte.l, and feel; the varied emotions of the actors. If some of
these adventures and incidents, were related in a romance, the leader would prob.
ably say they were exaggerated, so much mre strange is truth than fiction.
THOMASTON
D. 3. STARR ETT-PUBLISHER,
1851.


K~

I

ENTEaCD according to an act of Congress, i the year 1850,
BY C'ORTHELL &amp; KAMES,               ,
Tn th   (CimvPs (OfFhe of the United States District Court of Maine

I

ADVERTISEMENT.
The following Narrative was originally written without the least idea of publi-
cation, for the Author's own amusement-a mere whim of the hour, "to perpetu-
ate the remembrance of the thing," while it was fresh upon his mind; and ,to
drive away ennui while a sailor on board the Chilian Brig of War "Achilles."
At the solicitation of a few friends, it has recently been re-written in portions
each week for the "Lincoln Miscellany." The task has been performed at such
intervals as-the writer could spare fr'rm his daily labors, when his mind was har-
assed with business matters :--le was, therefore, no less surprised than gratified,
at the the indulgence and favor with which his hasty production was received
during the course otf its pub ication in the "Miscellany." These pages have been
printed in signatures weekly, just as they appeared in the paper, and if they are
faulty. so be it.; the reader must supply the corrections, he being the only one who
has had an opportunity to do so.
These remarks are not presented to excuse errors, or avert criticism ; the writer
is aware that he must bear the blame of the former, let him be guilty or not guil-
ty; and he is quite willing to "bide the pelting storm" of the latter; his sole ob-
ject having been-without any attempt at author-craft-to furnish those who re-
quested, and others who may choose to read these "Rambles," a "plain, unvar-
nished tale" of a sailor's adventures.


OPINIONS OF THE PRESS.
"7 The Lincoln (Thomaston, Me,) Miscellany is Publishing an original and
highly interesting work entitled "Rambles in Chili,and hfe among the Araucanian
Indians," by an annonyrnous author. * *  *  We can heartly pronounce it a
work of rare merit. It combines richness of description, with thrilling incidents
and marvellous adventures; and abounds in well painted delineations of manners
and customs, useful observations of society, and accurate geographical history.
The unobtrusive interblendingof a racy humor with the general flow of the narra-
tive, will give it a popularity but little inferior to "Melville's Typee." The Aran.
canians are an independent race of Indians, inhabiting the southern part of Chili,
whom the Spaniards have never yet conquered ; and any account ot them cannot
fail of being highly interesting. The work is likely to be widely read.
[Norfolk County Journal
It is put forward as an authentic narrative, and many of the scenes appear too
natural and life like to be an invention of the author. The very minuteness and
novelty of the details-preserve it from the charge of being an imaginary work.
It is, however, a striking proof of the fact that truth is stranger than fiction, being
full of stirring adventures, vivid scenes. and hair breadth escapes.
The writer has given a very spirited deseiption' of the country through which
he fravelled, and his pen has lent to some of the scenes and things portrayed an
indescribable charm. He appears desirous to remain incognito, and uses a ficti-
tious cognomen. Upon the whole it is a book well worth reading, which in this
age of literary inundation, is saving uch in its favor.  [Weekly Mirror.
It is a highly entertaining and instructive tale, giving a true and humorous de.
lineation of the manners and custants of the Chilians ; a correct description of
the scenery in and about the cities of Valparaiso and Talcahuano ; with a novel
and interesting account of a three months sojourn 4rnong a nation of Idians, to.
tally ignorant of any previous intercourse with white men.
It opens with a sketch of sea life. The principal part of the work, however,
is a true narrative of an actttl journey through the count'rv, by two fugitive sail-
ors ; and the story of their adventures, reckless daring, and hair breadth escapes
is another proof that "truth is stranger than fiction."  Although with little pre'
tension to author-craft, the narrative is embellished with some of the most excit-
ing and romantic scenes imaginable, and again with others the most comical. It
is full of marvellous adventures, perilous journeyings, and glowing pictures of sce-
nery and luxuriant nature.                               [Miscellany.
We have heard many commendations of it, as abounding in variety of incidents,
d natural and lively description.                [Lime Rock Gazette.

i

t '             C  f~f  r U"  r u 1  © f U U  t t te 1 ~  " ,

'tA~~W..

flTT A- nsm-t,-r .r

u          ,         .

CHAFTER
9yw sfedsand neighbors, ar me tell  that her head and bows turned
s'mp14 tale ; and mark me ell,  one direction and then another
g m plain style may sound uncouth,
It yields naught' else than bitter tuth.  having lost its power, was lashed
Whit I have seen has been concealed  ships, and the helmsman sOO4
Somewhat, till iow, from other ears;  Over the taf-rail,gazingdQWnon1th
ray tonguehyevex iliresedled  sy surface of the clear blue wg
,hT, scenes that marked my earlier years." him.
On. a calm, pleasant evening in the  The courses hung in their brail
month of March, 1836, might have been 'tiffuly festooned beneath the yar4
seen off the coast of Chili, a solitary the top-sails as they flappedidly,
bark tossing and worrying about on 4,the masts, kept tnie zithfthe  t
long undulating swell that came rollingjand rolling of the ufl. Mihe tj-
ib from the westward. Her hull and rigdails were dewed up and the yard
ging betokened that .she was Americantield upon the cap; the watch
and had any one been still in doubt of lows that they were-were nii
her nationality, her sails would have sat- them, caulking, when they'shouf
isfied thqn upon that point.  A still leen walking the deck, and awal
nearer survey would have revealed to the their duty. But the sailors w*ho ire
observer, three boats, suspended by tack- out responsibility, feel -that afde'
les from her sides; she was in nautical they can get, during their watch
parlance "a s uter," manning three is so much clear gain, eons Vqiit
boats, with a crew of twenty-five men, will steal a nap when they can'6o o
all told, and registering two hundred and impunity ; and, on a warm, still,
fifty toes.                         night, it is diffctIlt foreev  he  Iie
There she lay so completely becalmed keep awake.

first ii
-44

s  - t  E:

i


10

RAMBLES IN CHILL

In this instance the officer is on the alert
He has been promenading the starboard
side of the quarter deck, looking first on
one side, then on the other, or occasional-
ly wetting his finger with his mouth, and
holding it up to ascertain if any air is stir-
ing, until he finally 'imagines a slight
agitation of the atmospheric particles.
Convincing himself of this fact, he gives
the helmsman a poke which disturbs his,
reverie, and callfhim back to his post, or
rather to his tiller.
"Haul in your starboard' braces!" he
calls out to the men, who jump up al-
most bewildered at first, but quickly re-
covering themselves, the yards are braced
up and the fore-tack boused well out to
the eat-head.
413Bend on to the main-tack and board
him check'home, then lay aft to the
"hi lower sails were speedly trimmed
;',the order given to "sheet home top'
g 1it-sails, and set them!"
Whpn all was completed, the little puf
had increase to a fine gentlebreeze, and
th  ails began to swell out before the
w iht of moving wind, spreading their
e cave surface to the freshening breeze
Son the water began to ripple in hec
wake 4s she -dashed through the brine
bdwing gracefully to the propelling pow
e   wich was speeding her boldly for
warct
" Keep her a good rap full !" said the of
.to1 the man at the helm, who, (bet
p   on. reader, for not introducing mygeI
bof ,);was'   hurmbl servant; the:
agaiddressing me, he injured;
"bodyou new strop that jewel'Woci
o    tjio fore.topgallant yard to-day7
T answered in thindafirmative,

"How is the one on the top-sail yard ?"
he again inquired.
I informed him that I had put some
new service on that also, and concluded
that it would answer for some time yet.
"Keep her off then, two points.
Steady!" says he. "Let her go along
north by west:! Rig out the top-mast-
stun-sail boom, and reeve off the halyards!
we will put the muslin on her,' said the
officer joyfully, as he walked forward to
see his orders executed.
Two or three men instantly sprang
aloft; the geer was rove and bent on,
and the sail took its place on the weath-
er leech of the fore-top-sail.
Send . out that top-gallant-stun-sail,
while you'r in the top I" shouted the ofi-
cer of the deck, and in a jiffy thae'also
went laughing aloft, to lend its feeble aid
in tugging along the heavy hull.
Away we now went, booming over' the
- heaving bosom of the ocean, our canvas,
decked bark rising and falling with the
I gentle undulations, as ngracenilly athe
I village belle, while recetVing her gaf'ad-
mirers7 Thus we 'edntinued 'on through
r the whole of the watch, the breeze stif-
, aning as the night advanced; btt not a
r cloud was to be seen, the stars were out
, in all their beauty, striving to out-shine
- each oter, while the moon ws appar-
- ently doing her best to convince the
world that she was as lhnportant a utnin'-
f- ary as the sutn,
g   We continued in this manner aboit
f cour hours, when 'a sudden squal struck
n its without any premonitory ymptons, or.
warning whatever, It was "what sailors'
k, call a "white squall,",
snap went the top-mast.studdingself
boom, 5cs by the yardI and aWR  lenV

.
'
F

RAMBiifld IN OHILI.   .                     I
the °sal flutteriing far to the leeward with  At this jucture, n   dingcf s  ret
the smaller studding-shil afte it, in full upon us! Whit Watek Mas discby E
chase. The bark ias suddenly thrown close upon our taioard bow M!ie
u on  her  side,  the  timbers  and  spars  were  we  to  the  breakois that  weena arv
creeking and snapping 'with the heavy hear thenm roar even abova e tr fat
pressure, and the whole ship groaing as wind. The d anger nVe aidufst scaM
if she knew her time had coipe.     as "Scylla," met us now a  Ch rbdi.'
" Hard up your helm! Let go the hal-  " Ready a-bout !" roaiedlie
yards! Haul up the mainsaill! clew but it was too late; just :as the' hafQ bek
down the top-sails ! Brail up the span- gan to come into the wind,:and pitch in
ker . were the orders given in rapid sue- the heavy swell, she rolld to windywrd,
cession, and as rapidly executed by the with her taf-rail under, and as t. w4r
vigilant crew, who had all come on deck came pouring in on deck,,she whired
at the first alarm-though they had not with a. sea, and her ;bows rose  dfell
blien called,--and were at work with right with a jar, that knocked us alkfrw ppj
good'earnest.                       perpendiculars ! She was ,fasTP P  a
T ogallant-sails were gone; liter. rock!                    t
ally blown into atoms ! but the top-sails  I jumped on the heel of thphowspi
still held, pressing the bark fearfully over and went ,ut as far as thr tight-h e4
on her side, the water coming up nearly to examinlour situation. It '
to the combings of the hatches,     momentary danger, the:rook w  fe #
She remained on her beam-ends, ap; nately so deep in the water thet he
parently some fifteen or twenty minutes sel's-fore-foot had settled ondits Isrnoth
ere shoe righted, when .she- finally came round surface, where "it hunglong ego.
ip slowly and grddualli to her bearings, for another sea to :lift her clear; he
The Dicke ,had sprung into the weather he slid off, and away, she welit,, likle
unyards with an axe, when the captain steed that has lost its rider." She we
fortu lately' heckd himn firing,  soon brought again under aooamaad the
Hold drn bit, my man, let's wait a pumps were sounded and thwel ms
few itnieiits loner;'and those few rmo- ported empty; "to make ass rtierdqahlp
Mionts deelded the case, in favor of the sure," they were sounded a . imb&amp;en .t
masts,' and they were providentially savedjtimes, and always with, theasme hap
b Uhe squall was still severe, driving the result.
bark mal y on. and throughh the sea,  We found that we had been aYri.ddb
th her topeallyads on, thecap, and the the current and sea on to
rTtl     han.4 oht. The winds howled Next morning we tempoa ri  pafr
hearte orders of the captain, our damages;:and the captain eondluQd-
Awld an, dismal chorus;  Away she to make for the port of Talethia  6
kw hef  the waves which came   as' stock of fresh provisions hvi loeh
Ug o  the odipled vessel, Whil th edy disappeared, and our watebttet
h~ bamro5, cudling like a ruffle o'er low; we accordingly filed awy "&amp;
theia                              o fr  our*'s c   pory

.

1/ 1


RAMBLES IN CHIiU.

e,    a genuine specimen of the
en board. He went by
me of sge Spunyarn, and "was a
gf infinite jest."  His cockhey
p       as amused me, and whenev-
rppgrtuty offered, I would get
d a~n some of his humorous
y~~     wibiebhe had a bountiful stock at
j  m pnd.
THE COCKNEY'S YARN.
3oe was sitting on the end of the wind-
';   the eve after our late adventure,
*ith a large quantity -of the Virginia
*eedstuffedinto his cheek, singing" Hey
Betty Mattin, tip toe tye," and looking
bat dilihaily good natured, when I
clapped him on the shoulder, saying,
#tWf6'6JU  .' are bond into port, at
it  f- jX1 fl56 k ed at nie a Moment, and
hrWfrlied,"" why, this halftnothin to
what we'stayed lout hin a- bloody hold
brdvk  r 'hin won't, called the Testi-
th  # j (Desdemona) hof New  York.
Why, we was hout hover sixteen months,
llviiig hon orse beeft! I'll till yer habout
that 'fge, 'twas the last but one hafore
rI:s'hipped hin the bloody hold tub at
Ne* York. The cap'n was han hold
-yThati'ailed from 'Nantucket; 'e was
omfacetoffa rum customer too,hand when
'  ,been feting the nip, egad ! warnt 'e
a reg'lar tyrant? you'd better believe 'e
w4 ; "is face was has black, has a tar
lu ket1 hand the red lighinin come hout
,-eyslike fire hout hof a pistol.
'.r t mate, bast 'is eyes! was one
h aean pgq, what'll pick coppers
ha do is man's heyes; strike a man
r 'e'pwn; har lick 'is mother just
4h9n gby's gois to .hip for tother world.
Is naie was Brock, but the sailors called

'im Bruin, which they s id ment bear,
hand a bloody cross hold  ear,'e was
too.
Well, these two hold '6ttentots, used
to 'orse us habout, like as bif we was a
parcel a dogs. This 'ard usage, together
with bad wittles made hus hall as
cross as hold nick itselff; .hand we
hadn't gone into nary port, as I said ha.
fore, for as good as sixteen months, hand
we 'ad hall got habout 'alf rotted with
the scurvy. Hour bread got a moving
habout hof hits hown hacord,, hi4-tle
bread locker,for hit was like the Piv-pintg,
pretty thickly in'abited ; hand theater;
-jumpin Jubiter! 'twas as thick has mo
lasses, hand smelt as bif ball the rats hin
the bloody hold dug-hout 'ad' died biia
the water-butt.   .
We 'ad a little chap aboard that 'ailed
from Halbany; 'e was a real spooney of
a fellow, hand hin a storm 'e always
looked just like a sick monkey, 'anging
hon a lee-back-stay. Hold Bruin,-blast
'is keyes, knocked this- little chap hover
one day, hand broke one o'. 'is legs ; at
that the crew began to think times was a
gitten too, bloody 'ard; hand they put me.
hup to hact as a kind of a horatp, hand I
formed 'em into a kind hof company,
hand marched em aft hin a body,
Says'I,. "cap'u, we is hall dissatisfied
with hour craft, hour usage, hand hour
grub; hand more ner that, blood 'as been.
spilt, hand murder 'as been committed
hon the 'ighseas, hand we shall beetnged
as, pirates hif, we allow this kind hof
bloody manslaughter hany longer; so
we've come aft'like a man to tell you we
decline going the v'y'ge anty murder."
When the hold devil seed us coming,
was'nt 'e mad ? 'e kept; hinteisptin me

Jl #   time, sayi nobody hadn't beer
killgdo, "'twgrnt no. piracy to Break
znan's leg.
He  ussed hands habused me worser
nor hifX was a riggar;band :hordered us
hoff-to "'duty, buit we didn't budge tack
nor sheet, handpIbegan.t9 getmore cowr
agous has I found I 'ad pluck to back
me. Well,''e hand hol: Bruin, rushed
into the cabin for their pistols. I knowd
wlhat they was harter, so says I, ' boys
can you stand fire ?' hand they hall han
swered "yes," hand then says I, "just
scatter about 'ere, hand they can't wing
more nor two hof hus, hand them what's
left harter the broad-side, must board hin
the smoke, hand give 'em Jessee."
Well hafore long the bloody hold scul-
lions come hup, foaming hand raving like
mad, hand looking as cross as an hold
,maid, as has lost 'er last chance hof mar-
riage, because 4f er false teeth dropid
bout haccidently.
." Go forward !" 'ollard the cap'n, as
loud as a she lion, roaring at a 'ottentot's,
'eels ; but we didn't budge.
"Shoot the d--d raskills," says 'e
hand they both let split at hus at wons't.
I felt sumthin running into my side,
just like a 'ot hi'on, boring through hand
through me.  Thinks I, hits hall day
'with me, but I'll die game hany 'ow, so I
made a dive aft, hand grappled hold'
Bruin somewhere by 'is top-'amper, hand
hif I did n't pay 'im hoffhin 'is hown coin,
then hits none hof me. Hafter I 'ad got
through-with my customer, I tuck a sur-
key hof the battle-field like hany wictori-
ous General. I seed the cap'n was full
has bad hoff as hold Bruin. Both on 'em
'ad their figure 'eads gritty well knocked
hi.-

0

n  , f(q~icpntgy rtp&amp;t frc   M
hfver,(r t 4@'gtRgg by      in
fore) thatlwas 'ullp4 'te  a4
,water, hgbout iilips,  tp~
t4 part hows'eyer }t, a
Iostcen boy,as fjqeacassegr
a glass hof g rog,gy"s 'u lp1i
ps 'art, ha1d, kicke4jg bget  Vho
sayn a word to-nobody.
We lashed hour prisoners 'together
hand stowed 'em haway hin the 'ole,
hand left 'em settin hon the cool boil
casks, looking ezactley like  eifo
hon a lee-cat-'ead, smilin at a wet
Harter that we cracked hon the canva
hand spread hall o' kites, from the ffe-
rail to the sky-sail-poles, hand haway we
stuck 'er for St. Catherin's, for a 'arbor.
The Dickey worked 'er bin; 'e was a
first rate chap; 'e took no part hin the
bloody foul play hof'is superiors, hand.w
made 'im cap'n
Whendve got hinto St. Catherin's, e
released the bloody hold Hrabs from b-
low, hand they hagreed to 'ush the whole
matter hup, hand say nothin about it pS
we just walked ashore hand hagreed4to
say nothin neither side. We was 4appg
to get clear hof the bloody hold -o:in at
hany rate, hand I rather guess the hid
coveys 'ad got about enough o' i #
BJow me! hif that wasn't a 'ard e ts
take hit by hand large, hand I bles&amp;'
stars that I -d got hout hon hit wo:wU
as I did, without loosing the auabat
my mess."
Joe finished his yarn just as  0It
bells were struck, and we turned is1to
dream of the green fields, ripe
and pretty girls that awaited us on t
luxuriant soil of Chili. The scurv
made its appearance  two ortri


A       ;+r6Ol dis s brought on  ldpo western side of the harbor of Talcahua.
#e"idifie Waifobhealthy provisions: na. The dolphin with his rainbow tints
6*4e riadethe hlaiid of Si. Ma. was glancing in beauty through the blue
t it i4a 4 of Bio-bio looming up watersthe porpoise gamboled wildly about
"e and.   beautiful breeze waft. us making the feathery brine his play
0o '     as tie 'little cove of St. ground, while the hated shark followed
n t  along thl narrow bluff that close on our track like retribution.
4 d itslf northward, forming the
FRd  ta
r4r*                           '
n                              1
o a
l    ue  -
ar fe ~
pow ou 4

or~ib '
1 #r ri
W*  r   a w

CHAPTER II'

I shall never forget the sensations of in their own peculiar lingo,"I
pleasure and, happiness I experienced, nmi-ti, nuee-nuee  cow-cow
when after having been-, nearly elevenwyhee-nees, ahw! mi-t, iid, t
months t sea, we made the harbor of Tal.-fli-ti, nuee-nuee' h -na-liht
cahuana, the port to which we weretcow-cow, ah! pwrix er "14W
bound, for the purpose of replenishingory rendered ito  h d
stock of water and fresh provisions, and cahuanM, aine pl e, plenty
preparing for another lengthened cirise, ty girls, l very go  Th
Yes, for eleven long months, had thethe contrary no good, plent
old bark been buffeting the briny ocean Tlittle x to eat, go way shi
as her rusty appearance plainly indica.!thp9ughont the entire ,row, t
ted, The long grass arnd baracles had germi feeling of happen
gathered above the copper; the coal-tar pated 'ustication on soe.
othe bends was worn entirely off, nud  With a gegtli breego
thof ew spits of paint which remained harbor, slowlysweepig  as
upon the, hull, wore 4ingy and blistered(QQereqnno, and bo  ing
by the sorohing sun. -Upon the whol0the eastern 1hre, eo 1on Ws
ih~ was epl~a~ e ~ -Ing or  a~i ~ ~ ~ l ~   h   V
hey mixed, unuth looking crew, intes4of m st anid r    berlo
regard to outward appearances were At opening    to intlcaf  en
m fn1is4for the shlp,               hung like pider  wes W i
S   handmanmfested unbo nded Joy,W        madthree or
at thop  pet of goingyinto port; even the lststho4 n       a
ofr Kaakassw      had three on eoard. o    fuine rw:. t ,. je"
two fom the Sandwich Islands, and one kor, 4n4wheny       0t
from the Seelety Islanoeknan to ahsnt Wahgy toyh ,

tii
1
-list


R    13  $f   oxuuL.                             I

- AMB LES IN CHILL

16

topse, hauled down the jib, and, round-
iL to, under her spanker, anchored the
oldbark in five fathoms of water.
We were soon afterwards boarded by
the official dignitaries, accompanied by
Capt Paul Delano, an American, who had
esd d here for a number of years, and
become somewhat distinguished, having
been appointed Capt. of the Port..
other boats from ship and shore were
soon along side of us.' Friendly were the
greetings, and curious the questions from
all parties; welcome were the tidings
we received from   home; only a few,
however, were fortunate enough, to-get
letters, although each voyager's face was
ith  p~iety as, .he ship bundles
y et eaft entered ito-th9
r    tunate, wh
t,   mmure with
4 a  .d I9 rs of one, soon
f T1
e  ar    o       uan   is onep
no        en eAkeena.p-
d, m/ju ce to  its  beauty.  .It
an4boced, and perhaps some
ies  onekst to West? and four
norh to soth. On the western I
re     ardthe'sea, an elevated str iof
l    iky    'ord           rees - and
ne t ss fron the month 6f' the
'istn efIbpr or five miles, up I
V4M e ond the to vn or Talcahuana,
western sie of the valley, inf
oaisloated. - "a   jahua f

:rn

To the eastward of the Head, and along
the eastern shore of the bay, the land is
loir, one or two small villages, and the ruia
of -others, are seen, scattered along the
shore.- The town contained at the time
of which I write,tabout one hundred
houses, a church, and'custom house, with
groceries and pulperies,, in abundance,
and the ruins of a number of buildings,
thrown down in the severe earthquake
which happened the year previous, in the
month of February.
"Among the ruins, were the crumbling
walls of the once famous Fort of Talca-
htiana, which in its palmiest days would
compare with Gibraltar, in point of
strength ; it was the last stronghold of
the-royalist, and iany of the old guns
lay. scattered-r about. :Fronmm this place.
"Osdtio" led out his grand.army of 8000
menu which 4vavimfinally defdated,,Apxil
5 $16  on  the.- plans ?of Mypu
thus -establishing the imdependane of
both Chili and Perd.      #{K-
SI.shall not attempt to give an account
ofmy-ecruisings here although 'theybiight
possibly entertain the reader, btconmd at,
one to the incidents niore immediately
connected .with my rambles.  -   ,-
O n Stinday evening' the third of Afril.
m18%;seltin company with two bAii  '
of oui ew had just rern d ba d
frbm a visit to the FrihCes, of New"-6d.
ordh, anad Paoffia&amp;,, kf Na ntd6et, botW ufbli
ships; homeward boun'd.
We found that the stirboardwat chad
-eturned from their day' liberty on shore
nd one of them, a istot, brawny Pbr t-
nese called  rnm'o,,had come on board,
ust nougK intoxigatedto -benoisa
u       e     a        b n e    ai
~uar eIsome.  t was sopiwlierebetween
ee  . }. nj&amp; . ei  i.?... rht 4.* 'ciock We  Wdr ll BL

htiid7el68ini. the fordea t , wrd I was
siting bn' iiy- chest, #hi h served the
double purpose of chair and -suppei' ta-
ble, with 'my tin-ot of tea by My side;
when the drunke  Portguesecameup,,
and very provokingly, kicked it over. 1
caught.the cup in time to save about half
its contents, which in retaliation,.I threw
diremly into his face. Hastily brushing
the wet tea leaves from his eyes] he rpaut-
tered a desperate. oath, and grasping 1hs
sa1eatlr knife, he rushed,. upon me with
tie fury of a wounded tiger. .-It was but
the thought and act qf the instant, on my
part, to strike up eisknife with my left
arm, draw my ownsj and plunge it an his
breast.as he fell,upon me.
I gas, borne , backwards against the
bert}-bga ds by .the forge of the atac ,
butjpstagtigepoyer g myself, thiew
forward, and he fell bleeding anday
uppg be deck. °
Two ,or thee of the crew inst ntl
sprang towards ne, ppoing that I h ad
asQ een moritally wounded in the a ray.
thy Wire ho   yev~rr soon conviined oa
thegena trary. I hauonly -eeived a sliit
enlupen n1y;arm. Tle whole affair was
aste   ih -such' rap d y',th rt I could
:eve fuly realize it
was to b dpe now ?The cap-
tai iwe onshpre, and I Was welt aw are,
tht as aogn as he eaneoil beard, a1ndis
cove 4 wh t had app~eed, JI should b.
}plaoedin irons nd thrxWn itto  isog ,.
1bere. .,Yrm-thOeoee hq p obasgigy as
I sould bei tneferred to therdy
W4+e   .,;r h 4tr e  Of rlop  f t  i r a s,
f,^t: Nij* ,e ! ,hft a  , y t 'h satiusm,4 and
htor course o pue. TI      ,!eMS
enI  h   a e; it'w . s, or afinme

frothing of'theiaffair Casyet,id I
mined-ntmnediately ato leuve ttrg
A young manonir h6a:d, brj  v0u' s
" iARRY," who had been anxidusfrtsi
time to get _lear:o '  h embjp+ dMCng
my. thoughtsmimdi4i tely pppetQi  -
companpme inmy fhliglt.     m de"
. This propositio. I -eard withejyqt
rnerely o. account oflhavinga
ion, but he was ,a atote l
feet in stature, and of i verprg   -
sing appeargnee 1:wasal
with the :Spanish aInguagedd 1
-member of Watervillollegein4i p
mate of one of my e
i      only vtwv fr     ne n g
we had been on the not    pa
,4Iring the voyage. . JI
a immetiately c p  enee'p
onflor ongdeptat r     t~$
dll biudle of neeeg ryg? tjJS
. quantity  1foo ,,wpd s a1pJ
ogAancw, we elpre 4i      rb
gag way -oarda sipgjir go)
g-otupnnedgarfy       pp4
ai4 strikig puA bqjlfd4
pesseN10q9 uwdgr th ggjIy4
Wellsrpf 'wvA4lfgpeb
i3 sfety, intig ueigbhr  '
calledTP pe -Horn.'o do
Having lantmed,  die
to the hitusaeof -WO  Iy,   wn
daong tjh galor 1      n    .
of %?I11 $095    Afin
~ersaIolve ago
impression t4        , f  V
bp gpgg g{+h~yr.T gggng$ e

iT


U'

RTEiS, IN C    .IL

sidsg 6'it was our design t proceed
Adaghdhe woods and by-roads,,to soie
a ate¢he small towns oi the coast to
sheleeward.              -.
t oblock we bade a polite "adios"
W    *hostess.  Yellowing the shore
~long until we had passed the Custom
i 4iggDand the ruins of the old fort all-
d$1to;.we gained the road'leading to the
th'y on eptfon, which was eight miles
-dgtat, Passing over a slight hill, we
depledhInto the level plain beyond,;
,0Cil stretehed gut to the East some
eor (Qpr miles, and to whe north as
.ase otTd see.
e road to Cdception crossed the
p  a n easterly direction, which we
1 U!we were about a mile from
t aiahead, when   we struck
*+narrow road leading to tli
rred along as rapidly as}the
4  i dld 'low  We neither saw
I;tP Mny a hvin  thing during the
ihe distant birk of the dogs,
ee   keulowls, which sang t
rd dismaltchorus and the moriig
ftehrA    t 1  files on our way.
4 o4   ntIVtho -sn was well
s , pid    e from the high-way
t u A  ew moments' rest; an  opened
ry le&amp; f bi " sid of a cool sprizn
e spreading our table-upon
epabtobk with a keen relish
i&amp;uit d pAfie had in store,
i a tkrequent draughts of
'  ~ fl  the spring
(d ..r Eae beenfa
at    tesene ofe       toodeSt
{ xlhve the srpens from the
.T ses'  rw esaw  themaround
.  j     r ries, of  every  size

tudes, one might suppose that Perseus
had flown directly over this spot With
Medusa's reeking head,
"The gory drops distilled, as swift he flew,
And from each drop envenoined serpents grew"
Having carefully gathered up the frag-
ments, we proceeded on our'route. We
were now obliged to be constantlyupon
the alert to escape observation, and
whenever we heard the approach of
horses along the road, we turned aside
itgo the bushes while they passed. We
were at last however suddenly surprised,
and for a few moments believed ourselves,
caught. About noon, uirhile walking-on'in
earnest conversation, we saw three horse,
mien descending a hill, about a quarter of
a mile ahead, and in full view ; we saw
at once that it would be our best course
to keep boldly on, as our dodging now,
would be -sure to draw their attehtion,
and excite suspicion.
Upon their near a pproach, we :discover.
ed that there were two gentlemary and a
lady in the company they drew up by
our side and immediately began inquir-
ing of us where we were frorrand
where we were going ? Harry ,relied'
"that we were sent out by the captain of
our vessel to procure a bnllock'for beef"-
but what' was our surprise to hear the la-
dy cry out in broken English, "They are
run-away sailors, I know-they' are.,' The
men, however, appeared to be rather in-
diffBrent as to who or what we were and
soon they all rode on and 'left us with our
hearts beating less violently. After this
adventure, for fear of' its rgpetitiorn, we
determined to-secrete ofselves for there-
mainder of the day, and travel riisgthe.
night. We accordingly ttrned°asidesand
hid ourselvess in some low shrnbbeysthet
bordered t1eway

R

I

pwAl
i '  fp S re

CHAPTER III.

As soon as the shades of evening had villains, hiding secretly, on all
gathered around us, We again started for- dogging our steps for the pu po
ward.' 'r the first hour, the road was der and plunder. Our bundles
tolerably good,' and we mrade rapid pro- and lightand We had theft
gress, but presently we found ourselves out backsr by ur bets paedig''
penetrating into a forest, bya path wlich breast and ov  the shoilder4y
was so na r*w and  rass-grown that 'we the free use of oti a   s 4e
cond   ith dificulty trace our way, and stout oakeen stick to asest
what seemed to'add more to our embar- This We pursued our
rss ht, i soon branched ofin opposite narrow  path in Isd I
directions ''                       .  *'thcer, and
"This.ust be the'one for iti'to'take,  s ead danced. '      4
observed   y certpanion, "it seems to  "This i ?   dismaad 69
lead farther into the country, aid isifry I  nefit is  s;mt .
ani thing the plainest; whatsay you blindnmai-buf, to be
comrade, shkll we risk' ?"  "Tou 'are here in the dark, and it *ou
the ilot," Iepied, a'u T hase ful con- tlarly dIsagreeb  o   I
fidence in your judgment,"           of somes v' e    t
WYitlut sayingrnbre, Iarry dashed n, here y awa
aid T 11vned itnrdiately i  ll; #tke.bI WAN , -    r i5chF "t aJm
The forestepres ida  wifd1(d+f tMad agniptin's t  ghs   iixbh
asdect, and I must 'confe ss; Igew some-s ie an w
what nervous is We advanced.' f.frit   replid
sted   tsi   "niy efs as a-kin ithe e  d         {vi . ig
bblk'dest. ofGerrmanyt hronged  itiLo we ,as i

.
r
i
_, 5


RAMBLES IN CHILL.

t forest soon." Formore than an hour the same star, that good old Job gazed
4ter his remark, we travelled on in si- upon and chronicled, more than 3,000,
f -the darkness and gloom of the for- years ago ; having lost none of its loveli-
est was so intense, that I made out to dis -utess since that far distant period. Nearer
ce rn y companion's form, just distinctly to the zenith, in the "Virgin's Shock of
enough to follow in his wake. About Corn," sparkled the itnar star "Spica,"in
Gidightshe forst grew more open, and her solitary grandeur, and "golden ring.
y we passed on we saw liglits gleaming ed Saturn," was seen ascending from
faintly through the trees,' which apprised the eastern horizon, while wending her
4i that we were approaching a village. slow way through the constellation of
'Wi soon gained an apparently more open "Libra.", Close upon Saturn, came the
country, but still took the precaution of gory "Antares,", another of those lunar
passing the village by a circuitous route stars, whose positions have been deter-
and emerged into an open road some dis- mined with such great exactness for the
tanee beyond. We now, travelled brisk- benefit of navigators.
Iy,'through a pleasant.open county, until  There is pleasure to be derived in gaz-
thedawning of the day warned us, like ing up into that "world of worlds," and im-
oltoagain seek a covert.,      aginipg their peopled with beings, sinless
_   r{{ ed outI  a convenient spot, and happy, and brightas the own beams.
4n e9irnr mthe ioadfixed up a It awakened pleasig associatios in my
e   t  nong the, bushes, and con- rind, caniy ing ine back to the hours when
reduring the.day.   1-in rayclildhood's home, 1 gaz eoitheir
M  n~hVl bg   l     n  r  rian- a  A  r

2*

aJi by th: ancient astronome to::pre- ppurds popul tion ate grot p 4lt  fer
sent the qconstellations, haveaut slightis t to  ;,_ aeing thek v fr n pr  W
resmblance to the actual position; ofthe tW the eaxeof the Aola* 4n.i
stxsthaj mark teheirutlines..'this how mid Saof Sp rsnd 1ig i5
ey re  i eLerongU te ica ;:ai; s co i.nm psscssu.}",tanusa  ae wid
pee        rg      stars W  e  eQf Gtefrst inarkable for , their quickneia l f te
magnitud, tryo of ythe second;_and 4tl tioj, and pawgs of Wten ;
abher of thO. third'The brightest star gen erally filled  h hi Nh .Qi
"Aori "is in thmeouth and. represents and  are  cpnsidereds   . e  Uetetrseb
thefoot;of theeross.        ^ ;',    diers                            "rx
' ut to return iacl again. to our., own  Those who, remain in. tei ani
planet. -We continued onthrough the vals, are ignoiant and uetifiou
night, passing two or three Haciendas, or the laMt degree. TFha~t a  plati i
Plantations, which here and there show ing 4lmost in +solitude, scattrefl
themselves, like an "Oasis" in the desert, rugged country, without the mant ag
and received with becoming courtesy the, ucation, and ;without=enjoy iag a  jd
isual salutes from the watch dogs ,luring intercourse, houkjbe sunleo loawl
the morning hours we approached the race, cannot be surprising.:
neighborhood of a large plantation,:and  Here, almost; il  unlkogensd  pbli
on corning up pith the farm house, dte- they spend, their dgsJn an4
cid d,- - 9 were undoubtedly sj e w 4d, aBndthe' " eheerful ay a   ;J'
ftprwiuysttoldly-appy for fotrd and seacelyiesschild of-t
re 'We were Jdndlyswelcomed by t~ia Indian;angestogg qh
inman t  t ; , Bugs   .graga, entref 4n general, consst of mud ,wall
eg ,sgrere hospitablypatertineg thatched roof without furniture,  e
4th qugpa extremely dgraked :c1as simple and rade     ithi Wato
yet Ithene et they take a fncy, they are  Iri -horsemahshithey - ra" -
lindlidgenerous to a faulted Wp in-equalled b  the  Mesk;, t
formed them that we wer fror i Talka- brought Ldto it   O    i
huaW boppd to. iMala. They provided, take to it a .ntul
is with a.'reakfast of bred aped mi , does tothe wa e  ih, o14
wlich p fer 'doing justice to, we rested conveyance whick has everW
our  yes none .o twgjhous,,previous ed amottheatigd hils =,tr
to. tJr/start., ,                  which the surface t ' IV Tr
e p icipa  r rsz why neither   They.wear      i e
S     t{ppp   or g  vghean as ,a ggcess-t which se esgy nl y1 4  4
?A QO3rlog   ri the;  pj 9p   saddled enverigl os~
re4 s tpe spostipp .  9   y    iggruo  day, and  b  t gt
tn.teay4 f tprsejyqs ogve~  enitty   ifi         -      hriiluk
itea  'm s    vas.opyg      gyptg   re for the head,
l   the:pulajigj of tie U  4S Sto round th e gty,*d,
In, $ggthg  ggdea, gnes jo ,wjhqle comfortable ga. s~                    c

I

K

I


m

MIf1LS  OXL

vT hgiavp'one viftue however, whiehi   Whohas, failed tonotice thylack ro fri
{ jf     emulation by manyofaar dependence nng politicians ef)4he
#       t ontrymen, viz: a spirit ot fint.present day !  ith what eoatte ptible
agnlinidbyendenee. It is thatquali- humility do they bow and serapeto 3the
"*i~  ranes the man and the want hirelings and He'ians of party inanaa
X4# i  ;;ellow YI             gers ; those who are' alntot "alkystlie
6 r ls anytngp ing  this world I ad- drones of society, yet have mtnaged to
e it is= Wiridependent tan; a gain a strange influence in polities; who
pii. .ecophat, a (favor-cnrrying look down with contempt upon the hon-
Wrtch, I'detest as I do the hated breatlest workingman, whose toilis the nonr
ny: Let man, as long as he bears ishmet that gives health and vigorous
nh~~  of his rhaker, maintain those ifality to spiety. Nearly every 4andi
iitioawhiob humanity should wear, in date for public favor bows reverentially
o        V owerirg in a spirit of vasalage to this human scnm ; and it is by "this
A folemai, or, puppyalike, fawn on base pandering of public men---th sup-l
0s",  ultht deals= the blow. Let him port, encouragement, and patronageitra
:  ,evtd maintain 'his rights, nor fail venly'extendedto them, by politicians of
to expose thewrongs of society, but every party and clique, that such vile in
s        arntionind wrong, wherev- fluence s affected.
b3 found. Frown on the ty     Such has now become the state of ypt'
dUma ifests a desire to overawe itics, that an independent na  ardot
tat another and probe the possibly be elected to a public office th6y
,,} i   r., : f corruption, with a feaar e in fact ostraciesd from tle public
councils, like the wiseaind the Durefndii
Cannot dress  ' Sparta of old. How often dz'w  see ithie
M   . itn s asuwhere'my heart bids me frown. noble natnres,-who, seeking ne-itraih
p espeethenmy heart says      er than, fame, would scorn to"'"A'tte
*~jllin.' n myNeyttioathefor his trident, or Jove for hibi
-yewolhhcir-like'ep   Nepttipe",
n         .I m  s o Iafield b y  a  sto rm :  p o w e r  to  'th u n d e r," - le ft  fo rg o tte n  a n d
4 !      valor, whocan she    "alone !  It cannot be - denied," though=
bene th his tder,       with 'shame we confess it, that genius
wiU to batter it'iand yet  virtue and id
'and extnd thehandependence,willstrivefo
popular favor, atperilousbodds against the
the tynt, hate  supple knee, the flattering tongue  nd
h ratd, nor my love,  cringing sou.    however, one,W
i    fUili' Wealth aid rank  sonieishow ofthese noble virides, shoii
ei{Nhoikas'irMtN I, shall have  perchance receie th niareP n iaj it
grteitee ind, if eaisite   necessary to secure his election, his'8 in
Ssece; bt they shal not pendance is very apt to take to itself'
ey thoughts, ror sften down  wing  iy       y, d   ty trpo
dda;,,f aord,     cormnenceihent of his duties; ;dnh
ThM    dt a mieritless miAion:       is iiivarial'y the' case, If he is debir  of

prerelecton, There isi o other way to
cure ie evl than by refusing to elect
th eppeond tirme, to the same office.
Take our politicians and public men
generally, and it Will be ,;fou-nd they are
ilze:wost craven, dastardly wretches in ex-
istence. Look for instance 4 the drivel-
ling imbecile, who bore the title of Mayor
of New York, and presided over the out..
rageoum and co hardly massacre at the
4stpy-place opera house, on the;night ,of
the tenth of' May, 1849; merely to pam
per the vanity and sooth the wounded
pridetsa - score of -cowardlyaristocriati-
cal nabobe; ordering the murderous fire
instead of yielding to the wishes of a disc
gus e4 ;and justly iidignant people, by
closing thecontemptible show shop. What
A lack of filmnss and independence was
hg4iglayd, At the bid of a few bol-
l9.  h.aated gristocrats, to order ade=
-fencelessand iannoce nt multitude to he}
slaughtered, in the vain hope that a want
during mountebank vagabond would be
permitted to make a harlequin of him-
self, and abuse American citizens. What
makes the butchery still more melancholy,
is the fact, that the least worthy of the
fifty murdered persons, was worth more
to society, than a whole nationof such as
encouraged and rejoiced in the massa-,
cre.
There are other public functionaries
that have proved themselves as craven in
their acts, as' has Mayor Woodhull; but
few deeds however, have been followed
by such dangerous results. A war of
classes has been induced in that city,
which, if not quieted, will one day result
in utter ruin to the present lordly tyrants
of Gotham.r
' ut to continue my narrative. These

I +t

4Qko1o Span rdstathon   g ;,
proud anddinepei 43n;, a&amp;jp4
may be go, for like Adamt fhy
sw at,and gain their hniba arbepyb
own brow '4oiaigpre. T hya
generous  to  their  friendnsd cbt yl4t#her
and cruel to their enae' ,4    4
low on them tra*,a ilr  gn.gE ,
pestilential city. ,
After.leaving the Baien4dou
soon carried 4s into the h arttf
forest, the track gradually chang t ;
a tolerable road to a narrow i
which we traced with diffictiltiy.,{t=
simply a.!circuitous passage b
stumps of trees and around ditfiat
logs and huge broken stones.
the scene was,'unique: and ?r  Y .
miense primeval treei=i edt
beads towering'to thens     t,
the live oak and hard pirie we
irn abundane, fting g  t
athwartithe' narrowedtsky'
sun's rayswere ,struggling
narrow opening, 'and castinga
shade around, The wikit'Y
shrubs,.and°gay, tresselledfvin
ed the way, scatteringheirr
on the morning air, and the
sweet songsters, with plumag  t
and soft as any from the frag nt  :r
Isles,  sent  forth  their  m erry -aoiot l e a
among the golden leaves of  ei^
and flowery homes, as if they we  #
turously praising the briht bh
and the blushing flowers th
in rich profusion through    tr-
est. The singing ofte b
skiped from branch to branch, te m4 u
f the distant water-fall, tether
the wild gamb91sof thie squtrrels,
hasty retreat of the tiiid hM,     -

MLEsrXegflJ,


td  t I"  tie ; ' it o. tia ve long Woi s vMit, ere  r reargfi edr. j
'i'   d i  r*-t'-lA         sld fehnilriend id
ie at i9 s  m to epen within my-re dito bid mee stnt1i g1.
0f1t     yinvite 91; vde eatioethentjuapin      ayan&amp;dfrikkng its
d*,5,,   h F4i4 tail about like little kittenadsn'turnig
° Vth  ah ion if thought his .ighing eyes up -at jrein amiiiost
ji 6|     4- io  , wre di1ifer ctida1ntrer, as  i  notiee wheet~r
to                     Thesigs.  'hese J was please with his pistlayful .od
rel darting acro eitirIk, e Here We have often sat duiwg many a
of ia ir a ku+mmer -days:,m- happy hotir, regarding e .heh ther-aol d
4heugteeh    dds; andthrough familiar friends. ,;'loved thie Iitt  crea,
kneemt(dfwoods shatiskilrted the tare dearly,:and he in rtin semedto
Nteemeta m        ' fthesid rel* Iee the utmost coifidrege V i' inei fret
,  ~  ht  nd  joyo s  heart I quentlyan ag  over'k y  feet 1a; dleg
' ie foatning mill;dam, and daring his gambols. Proud andhuypy
slohe the Milt ;ponds - that. lay did I feel in the company of my singular
amn~ gihem   t O pitt s and gay and amusing little pet. 'e disapjeted
i me alidafthane. in time, and new"scenes hadAalio idtbr
loigliairgrden banks, ted.his irnage, froi' my mind. Sa.it' is
S   b   r94tei    no bolster with on dearest and imelyet     4   .
iiear and, heated on they die and aresoon tfog tot. d IRet
y4, beside:the "       iiranning a there upon which the moriWt
S trin,otaul  ai e .ppdar- enlarge.      *               .*,A n
leulifdstripedisquirel nor                               ;   .
+ $ $ ¢¢ 7  i  AY r  ,. s  'e .  ,  .'  ' r ' r     a " }  b +

A ri. K '  A'  . .A - ,.i  *f
to% A~
' t'AJ  4  At4A
_  d, A 'l A  ~    ,  C UAAis A +i "  a  P'  ,  r
t4   A

A        , ,
'A,
A l      C           .

'A     "A      ,    +           A      b *
A  K    , r A, 6

Our course led us on through the same
interminable forest, where hoary old trees,
the growth and decay of centuries, lay
prostrated and scattered along the rough
path, a track which seemed marked out
by the wild animals that frequented
these solitary wilds, rather than by the
art of man. We passed on, mile after
mile, up hill anddown valley,;and leaping
the swift-running water course,noWclimb-
ing over fallen trees, which lay at almost
every angle, then hurrying down some
.steep declivity, and emerging at the bot.
tom of a deep ravine, or encountering a
pool of 0gnant water. Then again af,
ter a circuitous ramble we would strike.,
and follow for miles the borders of some
beautiful stream, aslimpid arthe air itself,
among nooks and dales, whieh seemed
fit habitations for Grecian nymphs and
piping satyrs.
I remember that we spread our dinner
table one day upon the borders of a small
Jake of crystal waters, surrounded with
a profusion of wild flowers, and soft vav

K ;e. }        roc       i
.  :)  4;   Y
3  t_

ing willows, over-arehed by the  t
cner'heaven's delicious blue,"   ry
and sower of this lovely spot'       Y
written over with the poetry yof
place in fact,
"So wondous.gand, the whot
The scenery of.a ''ry  u
We enjoyed a delightfuJ
clear silvery waters, aid   i !
hour or two near this fairy; b .eryy
dedicated the place 1th4e
few impromtu lines,bwhich rp4y
the next pilgrim.: Indeed ,t   5~
was evey day changingrs  p
and dreary woods, to .the o e       y
bower; from the small ltigt e
ing to the rural village with1g
and cottages of straw.
, The roads in the imediat at
hood of the vilages were( Ro
ed, denoting theirmore        t
Therannerin which we
the inhabitants was, sei lah
changing winds. At ytit
the rudest threaten t tomu tth" s i* 4

CHAPTER IV.

1 Atli
NO'
e  r  , ,' ~ -       1 "r  o:y  '  P .a "T  '
ti  T  f  h~~tN  t  t  y  :¢' i  '.L rpT+"'  , sr
",  .F    Z t t  Y ,  n~ t A ,"  r    "-L J
f  -     r  r e  - "    a it c Yt  A  -
.±  y     ,4     '"4A   4 A,  5 " , i F
t ®    A.     y"
Wry W

f                       ,  .
1
"               ^                 }             "               {
' 3                                            1
t.. r                r f , y               1                       _

k


IirXMBL ES ,  I cmu.

en from 'their doors, with stones and
ubs;" t other times, and places we
f     be hospitbly and generously en-
t.ed; At snehtines'we would exert
^  q efres to the utmost to please those
ere kind enough to afford us a
;J  ta':}  s ylim.  -Harry would sing
1; dI would dance, and we never fai1l
other about us a large crowd whose
.    end approbation  were expressed
"y7 oisterous shouting, and swinging
1 their hands.. Being modest men, we
course received our blushing honors
~ng9ky. .
4; haverany a time smiled to, myself
when thinking of our ludicrous pertorman-
I -0 beforesthese kind butignorantSpan.
ud~s.Wewere Actorst 'least ama-
f, not  professional ones ; we
red ourselves at the time to the
mfing organ players, and our numerous
were such as would adorn the
Ssician's monkey. We had every
tebiihly flattered with our re-'
4 ondiethe audience we gathered
V6tus  'Or'periormances were a least
better  receive' than were those of
*e(My at the fatal Astor-place Opera-
t              f al th6 was driven  irn disgust from  the
4t      the citizens of New York. There
thisdiferehene however between u's
1 s   pported and encouraged by the
w od , backed by the military, we
by the Demoordey, backed by the Ladies.
4hose eoi g the Spanish race who
ase~isposed to w'eceive a stranger at all,
##hetbingupwith true Arabian hospitali-
t4the4ieuce of it was, that the poor
eis   orig whom we occasionally tar-
*e    e saomely'ever in a condition to
'r  'that 1wanianinfous virtue with
ich41l4t- .

It was, I think, the fourth day of our
journey that we arrived at quite a flour.
ishing little village-in fact it was more
entitled to the name than any other on the
route. We were accosted a short dis-
tance out of the village by a man on
horse-back. He appeared to be much
pleased, saluting us with true Castilian
politeness, and inviting us to pass the
night with him at his house in the vil-
lage. " Entres mi casa paisanos, tomar
siesta, si todas a noches, muchos hay pon-
chos," cried he with a bow. Si Signor
con mucha gusta, mil gracias," replied
Harry, as he gladly accepted the invita-
tion.
We were kindly welcomed by the farn-
ily of the proprietor, and treated to some
fine flavored native wine.  Nearly all
the huts of the village were built of reeds
plastered with mud, and thatched with
straw. Few of them .contained more
than one room, and those generallyrWith.
out a floor. Here the inmates sit, sleep;
and work in wig wamlife,- seldom look=
ing beyond their pesent, wants. Their
industry ebbs and flows, as plenty or po-
erty prevail. We -were treated with
great respect by the kind hearted villa-
gers. We attended a dance Clled the
&amp;macusca, the Ibllowing eve g; and
here we were tully initiated into the man-
ners and customs of the place.
The females in general, are robust and
healthy; owing in a great nepasure to their
diet of coarse bread and fruit. They 'are
extremely fond of dancing, and- seer, to
th*w all their energies into the business.
The dance which they most prefer is this
called the amacusca, somewhat rese n-
ling the fandango; it waf perforied iian
Amphitheatre, surrounded by apartments

filledwithrefreshnients, &amp;c., the stage'of attention fon the  Pos
was under an open shed, around which will much sooner oe usf aiberty,{
were grouped the old naidsand matrons they imagine is theresultof  d
within the circle the young couple spring than a matter of indifference a'o
to thermusic of the guitar, and violin. At' the age of about forteen,
The couple begin dancing by facing each far advanced in love matter '
other, flirting handkerchiefs about 'te monial anticipations, as one  r
heads of their partners, approaching and  at eighteen. And she indigei i aUft;4
retreating, then shooting off to one sidelsports arid blandishmentso f tilir
and passing under arms. The short dress'dey of life, as sailors Woild s'y-" t
of the females, and the prurient motions perfect looseness." And when she:rrties
of both, are at war with all sentiments of I an constrained to say, that those b    s
propriety; their movements are quite g'race- are carried into the domestic circle!#
ful, those of the feet, pretty, but rather is very apt to permitthe intimacyleLd T&amp;i
amorous, the gestures may be.readily un- than her leige Lord. These
derstood. Their heads are bare, profusely rarely if ever followed by any
decorated with combs, and gay ribbons, on the part of the husband; they , $
and for silk stockings they have a perfect took upon it as a matter of-
an.         'tion to all partiesSaid" would
t aped    strange to me, how the and resent as snicidial folly,$a
others coild -itness, with pride and de= ticexplosion 'Lovdeintrgus
light those exhibitions in their daughters; even to children, and are a  ev
it'argued certain a false taste, andis'an source ot entertdnrixnet.'The _e  y
evidence to what absurdities, custom and bf'their parent, are trietedit
habit can familiarize the ind  They all levity as those of others H
bNtray  heSpariish blood, it is seen in the r'mother counsel i'iadf vis t
their nanners, their complexion and their terVis it stran ge slt th  hi  d
stately forn; their large black ees are fdll look, rather at the exam plehah
Sasan fire. They are extremely fond cep,"'
'           I    r 1  , '    '  - x  i
Y:  Ar              1, as                 /    ,'  'r   .
_  o  s  }     ,  F  '  i  ,  ,  .    a  :r    .ir i -tlr'y~e1-" '  +rd    h} '4 ,,-"
r     , t - ' "      i1 i ~~~it l   ' * a(, F 6r_

*1

~1J

Stf  it   .  ''     {   1   - t,  , r _t  y  ,
TLANT's VIA

a


R~ABE N U

%q~ u  b
r "  r  7 ' r ,

f '8  t j           CHAPTER       "V.
u gay but dangerous vortex of the mother or aunt of my fair inamo
0;1I   'and4, disipation, I found myself rata rushed on to the stage, grasped
4    y the aid of Aladdin's magician, ga- me in her arms, as if I were a piccaniny,
on ,.a the brunettes as they whirled and bore me off the stage, followed by
the girl, whose shouts and thoseof the
4     g gthe lwing hour with fying feet," company, somewhat raised sy temper.
lng could .Iremain anidle spectator. But when I was finally' released and
d myslf going through the panto- conveyed into one of the side apartments
.ewith fever sh zeal, the perspiration accompanied by the .right jewel who
r int largedrops opK my forehead had so fascinated me, causing through
he viplence of the exercise. My her animal magnetism all 'py laughable
rnewas one of those Castilian beauties mistakes, I felt a forgiving disposition
whose combination of charms might stir come over me. Having seated myself
he thisel of a Praxiteles. She was the beside her I endeavored to apologize for
,;ishe0 health and animation, but I my inattention. I soon found she was
ri not say more ; let the readers im- a wild thing, and fully armed with all
imagination picture her as beautiful as it the brilliant weapons of beauty, wit,
ny,. nd they will not come far in error.repartee, and a lively self-posession.
?   so muehtaken up, with the person.  "Coma ci-a-mah esta in Americano ?"
{ -ehs s of my. sloe-eyed partner, tEat enquired  she pointing  to my head.
"M  as with difficulty I could keep time "Cranium" I answered .craniu  pelo
;th music and go through the intri- punetero" said she, giving me a push
e evolutions.                   which sent me back against the wall.
ade several blunders much to the I gathered myself up with becoming
am usement of the lookers on; at last dignity movingback to my little Amazon

I had scarcely regainedciny seat howpv-
er, when she renewed her interogatories
with another question  which   fairly
destroyed my gravity ofposition as well
as spirit, and I rolled, on the floor corn-
pltely convulsed with laughter; when Jt
recovered, I made a hasty retreat into the
crowd.
Here I was soon caught up by
a little creature scarce knee high, whoI
insisted upon my taking a trip with herI
on the boards. I plead my recent discom-
fiture and fatigue, she would not listen
to these excuses, and I finally proposed to
take a stroll round the premises. She
took my arm and beckoned her'sister to
her side, and.havin each lighted a "pa.
per cigarritto," they hurried mue off to,
where a group of youngsters were liste-
nig to an o14 woman. who was reading
off the destinies of the curious enquirers
from their open palms. They alttook
their turns, and, the book of fate was
laid; pen to them, and every word gree
dily swallowed by the.crowd. What she
,discovered in my palm,I shall not disclose,
but I have full confidence in the- misi
terionsdevelopement, for I could feei it
"oing out of ry fingers' n " as
plautely and palpably as Bo15'Acres could
his courage, as described in one of Sher-
idan's plays.
These fortune tellers are quite numer.
otis and are wll patronized;: they are a
shrewd set and will tell a good story,
for hailfa; real.
,Our entertainment broke up about
- twelve, and we all retired to our respect
tive abodes. The gentlemen, I found
at these entertainments, were much more
sedate than the ladies, and su.h I le.
lieis charaeteristijgof *Je Spanish

character. The females, were drefl4
in light airy material  hot
low neck dresses With   athor fu n'
probably that they may beless
assed irt dancing, but perhaps
turned ancle is an additionpamot
We enjoyed ourselves minch
rural village, and tarried herpthr&amp;
so loath were we to part fronM0p11r "
made friends, and were estl #
five or six miles on gir way
younger part of the community.
We traveled about twenty miles, '
parting company. Having passed, during
our walk, one of the isolated 'hacion
we approached another quit #ir i
and neat in its appearance,and   a
application were cordially recei e  e
proprietor took great pleasure in a
ing as about the premises, and
highly flattered with.our profuse  61
pliments. Harry instructedlhrina
method of fattening swinepogp9
and corn, without drinkewhich the I
was hardly inclnd to/ belie    ud
succeed, but declared hisntien    of
trying the experimentt.'
At our next', stopphg plce  r   e
night, the family consisted oa i
wife and one daughter about  e4
years of age. Harry    d glg dr
family by his rapid executioas oa  -
doodle and some other light.are 3pno
the "banjo."  The young: dy -$a.
vored us with some of her natie ve   s.
I was under individual oblionsito
her, for she furnished me
linen- bandage for my'wo nd,
begancto be so ew th
having washed it gave iiie alsa
which proved very:thealt   -t IIJ -

.                                          i


AMBES mN cStic.

fLat8 ip.the afternoon of the tenth da'
S g pilgrimage we found ourselve
trMaibg along a path that appeared qpit
i dlsic'bt and but little trod, and whit
be'inngg to 'be apprehensive that w
had strayed from the right path; we wer
e'rtaken by tree Spaniards on foot
T' y looked decidedly unprepossessin{
in their appearance, and were contuinall'
,   gour buntdles 'while whispering t
eeh other, and at last made bold t
.enquire its contents. Harry gave them
td understand that it contained some root
'and herbs which we had gathered by the
yThis did not appear to satisfy, them
1i dwyiile they were enquiring of Harry
'het) er we were armed, (which I partly
turderstood.) ' I slyly 'picked  up
'droled 'stick; which had at the momen
a tracted- my attention, being shaped
inVh "like a pistol. This I thrust into
bd6som leaving the part that resembled
th handle protruding from my vest, and
to Harry regheated him to reply
o   ni in the affirmative, and direc
' tWttentiou to me. 'Turning towards
y perceived my sham weapon
*high 'sufciently satisfied them upon
t portant point; and they soon after.
ids ttrnsd down a path' and "vamosed"
d            o   a  tni s  atisfied"  that  this ' ruse  had
a' d u a brush withthem eto say the
'''heir manner was certainly very
yilealariand as Harry remarked, they
Woi&amp;',aaviterin modo," if not "fortzter in
.w0 :crved aside, into another path
sqil ate:r this affair, and in two hours
t $= e~q u e to a collection of six or seven
'h!ltsesin m nairowM'opening ota the mar-
gnoadeep and rapid stream. We ap-

y plied to the first house for entertainment,
s' but receiving the cold shoulderwe progee.
e ded to another which we tried with no'et.
e ter success. They refused all intercourse
e with us, denying us even a cup of water.
e We had passed nearly through' the
t. groop, when observing a woman who
g was standing in the door of her :hut
y bestowing the maternal contributions
o upon her infant "child, I accosted her
o asking for water which she iminedi
a ately brought. Harry, then enquired if
s we could not stop at some of the houses
in the - neighborhood during the night.
. She shook her head and advised us to
be gone ere trouble came upon us.
We took the friendly hint and hurried
a off; stopping half a mile further on,
t we fixed ourselves a shelter for the night
I and retiring early, took our supper. out
in sleep for the want of'sometliing "more
l substantial.
l In the morning we made our breakfast
upon a few wild berries and tenler buds,
t and gaining the margin of the river we
stood gazing upon the foaming waters
as they rushed madly by,' wondering
how we should be able to cross over.
Our usual methods were impracticable
here. It was to deep for us to ford, and
quite too rapid and crooked for a slender
raft, such as we had occasionally.been
oblidged to tise. We walked dow, then
up the stream f r rpany hours, and return-
ing nearly to the village, we fell in with
a man who upon our request, offered tor
put us across for two rnals. (twenty 've
cents.) We remarked to him that. we had
no money, and after bantering with' hm
sometime he finally agreed tor take: Is'
over, f'or one of our sheath knives an d
Belt. 'fe made thoice'of H arry's as he-

4, {,

'
q
,i :

RAMLES IN CHL
ing the newest and brightest, and produc. we discovered, much to our surprise
mg hie boat, we seated oursves  the our bundles were safe ithe' bott
bottom and commenced our diagonal tran- immediately suggested itself to; Dr wn4
sit. We were swept 'down the stream that our late misfortune was purp s
with fearful rapidity, but our ferryman contrived, the rogue being confided titht
seemed tg be a complete master of his we should be swept among the r cka aert
boat, and familiar with the navigation, drowned, and he wouldthus come int /
judging from his sill in clearing the rocks possession of our bundle, which hi ti-
and the eddies which danced wildly about cy might have led him to conjecture ea
us. So  pid was the river that we were extremely valuable, but how l e oriiV-
carried down the stream nearly half a mile ed to secure the prize so effectually flom
in crossing a distance of scarce twenty being lost, I am still at a loss to e
rods.                               plain.
We :had nearly gained the place of This suspicion on my part probe b y
landing on the oposite shore, ,,when our kept me afterwards more upon the alert.
ferryman, while passing rapidly by a  We were obliged to light a fire for t'e
point of land, caught his paddle somehow purpose of drying our clothesdu tdr
under the boat, capsizing it 'in an-instant. Spaniard after rumaging in the top 'el'4s
The moment we found we were going chapeau, soon drew forth his horn ofii
over, both of us sprung, as if by instinct, works, which, together with a pipe
towardsthe point of land we were just tobacco which every Spania
sweeping past.                      with hijm as a part of his person lpara
As Emerged from the water, I found phernalia, soon enabled us to light a re
myself rapidly drifting past the boat, and on the shore.
exerting myself to the utmost I finally  In the mean time I was engagedrn
reached it. . Shaking the water trom my gathering a bundle of' sticks fotihe sittE
eyes, Ifound'with satisfaction that both ply. Ven a short distance f
of my companions were also sa  cling- fire chanced to turn myface i
ing to the boat,, the Spaniard'.ting at section, and what was my sn'rila h"
the stern, grasping a long bush which observe through a small openingof
hung over the water, thus..keeping the bushes, the treacherous Spaniardn-fl.
boat from  drifting dopw  stream. 'Just tiously creeping towards Harry =whom
below us we;'observed with horror, that seated upon the ground, in the a
the water rushed foaming among, sharp hauling off his boots
sunkerrocs, where, had we been swept  My fears were intynediatelyred
by the cur ent, we should have been im- suddenly and 'ste lthily reti  e, .
mediatly drowned. "                 arrived near them just as lthe' vU
We soon gained theshore, hauling our grasped his knife to plunge irdo tf
craft along by 41he limbs that, fringed the pf my companionW '. gave a' shnt
bnk    y suspicinthat foul play bad sprang forurd in: tirzis'tocatli  8
been used, were somewhat excited, when, ing blade.  The' forces wit whk
upon righting up the N0at on he shore, sprang upon him, bore the villaine e


1A 4LJJEIJALo.

#hand wrenching the weapon from
iS  I held it over him in the act of
'thisfurious struggles, when Har-
forward 'and grasped my arm,
ryn, don't kill him--don't kill him!
we hill have the whole neighborhood
tIpon us if you do."
After a few' moments deliberation we
concluded, to put hirm into his boat and
shove'her off into the stream, as being
the lest way to get clear of him.
Having dried our clothes, we gathered!
up our bundles and pushed on from this
dangerous neighborhood as fast as our
legs would carry us. It appeared evi-
dent that the Spaniard had calculated
his chances, presuming that if he could
suddenly kill Harry, who was a large
aiad muscular man, he could with ease
manage so light a person as I was; yet I
felt t the time, when my nerves were
stung by the excitement, that I could
hive easily mastered two such as him;
and I have no doubt I could, as my
strength was always greater, and my
muaseles quickly nerved up during the
first moments of excitement, enablingme
alwrysj n a rough and tumble scuffle on
ai hps deck, to throw my antagonist at
first, even if vastly my superior, in
weight and size. In fact my greatest
conceit at that time, ran in the direction

along the rout. We passed several tar
houses, wit out presuming to gain an in1
troduction, until Towards evening when
arriving near a small building around
which we saw several children at play
we ventured to try our success once
more. We were however, uncerimoni"
ously repulsed ; they turned loose upon
us two large dogs, from which we were
glad to make a hasty retreat, after having
been handled by them in no ceremoni-
cus manner.
From all these symptoms we judged
that our lot had been cast amongst a bar.
barous people ; every traveller who had
passed us of late. had whipped up his
horse, refusing all communication with
us. After halfan hour's further progress
we found that we were nearing a village,
and remembering the treatment we had
already received front the neighboring
villages and hamlets, we naturally hesi-
tated to venture among the inhabitants of
the village before us, fearing even worse
results might occur, 'from such a proceed-
ing; we therefore struck from the path
concluding to pass. the village - by a cir-
cuitous out, preferring to spend the
night i ' e woods, rather than venture
among the half barbarous Spaniards.
After leaving the path we wandered
on through swamps and low shrubs, over

9±', my athletic properties, and physical thick hedges and wind falls, until it be.
force, which was more than an average came so dark we could 'continue no fur.
fo my age and, stature.            there; when having come upon a thick
:tut course led us for many miles cluster of bushes, somewhat resembling
through alovely country, abounding in our alder, we drept into the centre of the
grapes, peaches, pears and apples thicket, and made our bed among the
ih, a undance.  English walnits andjroots ,and dry sticks thatcovered the
i l   trees were scattered in profusion ground.

M.ABLE . fN CmJ

CHAPTER VI.
It was a pleasant starlight evening end., In vain I gatheredethe folds,
when we first sought our couch. but we saturated garments about me, endeaho ,
had scarcely closed our ey s to sleep, ing to shut ouj the visions:that Wei
ere we were aroused by the sound of growing too wild and oppressive  T
distant thunder, and soon the fitful moan- furious wind :sounded drearilt u
irgs of the wind told of a gathering the forest, like that inysterious  oanin.F
storm y whichincreasing, at first accoi- of the ocean which with the cre orn
panied by large drops of rain, soon burst mariner is the unwelcome hriager
upon us in all its 'fury.  The dismal an approaching storm. At last the r '
sound. of the pattering rain, the surges of blast came sweeping along withlg
'the forest, and our own isolation and lit- less fury, .tearing oft the frail lisro~s &amp;
tleness, filledB mewith.a sense of the{the tortured pine, and scatteringthemo}
most complete and helpless solitude.  every side, as it wended upon aitreia
,Ahe rai nhaving penetrated our leafy of destruction and death.  eight
roof, soon drove down in cutting blasts its horrors, hovered with vae g
upon.ou' drenched and, shiverirng: forms. the cheerless and desolate forest,
Oh never shall I forget that long and te- was gloom and blackness. I turned'
dious night. In vaii I rolled from  sise aching head in 'vain  for shelter s,4ti
to s id of myswimming couch, hoping drenchirg rain swept fiercely  th  .  tt
to wory myselfinto, a slumber, but nottfrait retreat; and the glo  ofth
moment of relic would, find, not a1 threw ts shadowy"dfantastic
shadow of forgetfu  ss crossed my sleep-laround, while soundswild ;atd fea f
less brain, but images wild and feartul were heard above the' storm. ,At
would gather in the storm, causing my vale one ,might imagine he head
wet and matted looks almost to stand on sharp bark of the wolf, or the distant

01 Not:~

.r'

d
n


RAMBLES IN CHILI.

g rwl of some other wild animal rise on
the night blast, and then again all wasc
still, save the distant sound of the patter-
ing ainhieh came sinking to the heart.
A   zgi Mthe distance would Gome their
deeprumbling sound, as of some mighty
tor arch of the wood torn from his bed
by the sweeping night blast, and hurled
thundering to the ground. And then tlje
sounds died away among the trees;
again the furious wind and rain alone
swept by, the bitter blast howled on, and
th. ominous wispering of spirits rose and
fell.
Willis has said that the sound of the
dropping rain is musical and soothing to
th,,ear.. It may have uttered melodious
s nds to his poetic ear, while snugly
sandwitched between two woolen sheets
iii his garret bed; but had he made his
solitary mid-night bed with us, in the
miasmatic bogs of Chili, during that dis-
vnal stormy night,: it would 'have struck
1ess soothingly on his ear.
At last we counted through the long
l hours of that strange and sleepless
fight, and the gray gloomy dawn came
struggling through our leafy casement.
At the first peep of day we arose from
our disagreeable couch, completely satu-
rated with the rain and stiffened with the
cold, looking life a mere vapid dilution of
our former selves. We rubbed ourbenumb-
ed limbs, and performed numerous calis-
thenic. exercises to restore the nearly
suspended circulation. Our drenching
hadsuperseded the necessity of the usual
morning ablutions, and without any fur-
ther cold water applications, we continued
all' dripping; on our weary march, the
storm having settled into a cold and driz-
zly rain. Sadly and silently we picked

our forlorn way onward, wading streams,
climbing slippery precipices and stumi.
ling over rocks arid underbrush.
It cleared off about noon, and the smil.
ing sun burst upon us, cheering our droop.
ing spirits, and stirring the blood again,
gladly through our veins, after it had
been so long shrunk away from the sur-
face, to escape the chilling touch of the
night blast. We removed our wet
clothes, and hung them to dry in the sun
while we reposed under the shade of the
wide speading trees.
Our situation among a race of people
as ignorant and wild almost as the un-
tamed savage, was gloomy and unenvia-
ble to the most romantic mind, and I
mentally admitted  that "happy is he
who neVer saw the smoke of a strangers
fire."
Having clothed ourselves and gather-
ed a few berries and other fruit which
we found in the vicinity, to eat on our
way, we cut two stout walking sticks,
and trudged on, hoping soon to again'
discover the path from which, we had
wandered the previous night. About' 5
o'clock we found ourselves ascending a
long sloping hill, its waving and undula-.
ted surface abounding with thick clusters
of a thorny minosa ; upon reaching the
suinit the view that burst upon us was
grand and beautiful. A world of, forest
lay spread out before us, 'with many a
beautiful lake glistening in its green fringe
like a basin of silver; the long rapid
streams that crossed and skirted' the
green carpet, and scattered openings,
were enchanting an beautiful' beyond
description. On the opposite side of the
valley, a long ridge of mountains reared
their lofty summits in the distance, to dis-

YI

RAMBLES IN CHILL

U

l:"k VA'L-C.s

pate our further progress. After a long to bring back my recollection to hoi
time spent in gazing upon the lovely and them, and it would have 'beeA
scene, and settling the geography, we pleasant cout Ihave had the faithto e
decided that our course must be over thelicve it, but n.  fiucy was too weak,
ridge, which rose on the opposite side.  sustain the speh  rticularly as the pee-
We descended into the valley, and pie of my native v.lage are wholly unad.
night coming on, we began in season to dieted to the 'practice of magical ats,
prepare ourselves a nice warm shelter, for save now andathen a temporary sojourne.
fear another storm might surprise us, as  We were up and stiring betimes,' eager
it had the proceeding night ; a catastro- toresumeour journey, and followed alo'g
phe, which we were in no humor to the margin of the stream near which(
brave again. I killed a small bird with had pitched our tent. This ran murimte
a stone, which I chopped up, mixing with ing along its pebbly bed, now sweeping
green chesnut-meat and wild sorrel leaves, gently round some monster rock,\t'hl}W
and eat with a relish which Iremember leaping down a broken bank, with wild
to this day.,                       and boisterous mirth, as if in imitation 6f
It was a singular coincidence, we each the far famed niagara, until a sharp
of us this night dreamed of our distant gle in its bedpsent it coffin a different di
homes in the pine tree State, and were reaction from our course.
greeted i ourslumbers by fond parents, eh
We journied on with! our packs u pon
brothers, sisters. and friends, as though our shouldersliete n gx.'
oursholdeslke the wandering eile of
they had thought us long since dead. Erin seeking in our own beloved lnda
Theserecollections of home, and distant e  aso           i   r
. home and a rest from British arrogance,
friends' softened  our hearts.  Every
and cruelty. How we envied the plenty
person who has known in the days of his and hospitality which he meets at every
boyhood what it was to dwell in a happy
step. 'Hard may be their lot compared
home, to feel his little heart beat with
with those who can "set under their own
joy ,at the -similes, and caresses of fond,
tevsmlesndho(arseesroffndlvines and fig trees;" but who ever heard
parents; every one who has ever knelt of their being repeatedly
.~~~                        ~~ othibenreeatedly driven from, the
at his  mother's  feet,  and  earned  to  lisp d fr,
Ins venng paye, ca sypathse  ithdoor, refused' a crumi of 'bread, 'or a etu.
his evening prayer, can sy apathise with o  odwtr  n   bie    otk
feelngsat hathou. Erlyassci-of cold water, and obliged 'to' take u
our feelings at that hour. Early associ- hi bd ngtatrngho=hcf
ourtheir abode night after night, on thleCold
ations, and the happy, joyoun days of round; especially in a country bou
childhood contrasted with our, present
situation filled our minds with gloomily furnished by a kind Providence with
.thoughts, and sorrowful forebodings.  the fruits of a luxurious clm
To rally my gloomy thoughts, I boldly  Two hours travel brought us to the base
asserted to Harry that those forms which of the mountainous ridge we had seen in
I had seen, by some misterious enchant-' the distance looming up into the heavens
nient, had asked and found this method with topping peals and ragged sides.

;

u


On nearing the mountains we found
them to be a long continuous ridge, tow-
ering far into the clouds, and crossing
our course at right angles. They seemed
indeed to form an impenetrable barrier
to our farther progress, unless we could
'discver some ravine or gap through
which we might pass. Having travelled
along the foot of the ridge, for two or
bree' hours, without finding any pass
through which we could reach the oppo-
site side, we came to the conclusion to
cl mberup the side of the mountain and
sale its heights at the most favorable
place which presented.
We accordingly began our ascent at
the lowest point, where the ridge appear-
ed not more than seven or eight hundred
feet in height; the sequel however,
proved that it must have been mnch
more.
Near the base of the mountain the an-
gle was not more than 25or 30 0, and the
ground plentifully covered with low shrub-
bery, our progress for the first hour was

comparatively easy. From this time we
found our way becoming more steep
and ragged, the shrubbery began to disap.
pear, the soil was loose and broken, and
our footing was painfully insecure. - The
earth and gravel crumbled away beneath
us at almost every step, and the larger
stones went leaping and plunging into
the vale below, still with our eyes fixed to-
wards the summit, we boldly pushed on,
until obliged to rest from mere exhaustion
and fatigue.
On looking into the bosom of the val-
ley below us, we were fully aware how
steep and dangerous had been our course,
and how much more formidable it ap-
peared to us now, than while toiling up
the ascent. But when we. turned and
gazed at the prospect above us, we were
almost discouraged, upon observing that
scarcely one third of our task had been
accomplished, and the remainder of the
ascent appeared fearfully steep.-
Shelving ledges, perpendicular cliffs,
and overhanging crags, seemed to threat-

1'S'V r ~ re
31i

RAMBLES IN CHILI.

CHAPTER VII.

en us with instant destruction, by falling point of another, similar to itself at a dise
and sweeping us down this fearful de- tance of about three feet; when the il
clivity.                           suddenly gave way in my grasp, and
After a few moments rest, we again nearly lossing my balance, I for a rue-
commenced scrambling upward assisting meant hung topling over the side. This
each other as best we could over the most gave my nerves so severe a shock that it
difficult and dangerous places. We soon was a long time ere I could stfieiertly
found however, that we had passed the compose myself to make another effort
Rubicon, that our only safety was to ad- in which I finally succeeded.
vance forward. To retrace our steps was I now began to fully realize, that eve-
utterly impossible, we had ascended too ry step might be my last, and with ,My
far for that, even had we seriously cor- heart clear up in my neck, trembling in
templated a retrograde movement. The every joint, like the wind shaken reed,
only course left us was to push on and crawled on, clinging with a tenacious
trust to fortune.                  grasp to the rocky wall. My eyes were
I gradually edged away from Harry almost blinded by the perspiration, and
who was a short distance in advance, to dust. The coarse sand had insinuated it-
keep clear from the falling stones and self among my clothes, and so irritated
dirt which come rattling down upon me. my skin that every movement was yat%
Having now been full three hours on this ful in the extreme, and my raging: thirst
perilous march, my thirst became so in- almost maddened me to desperation, still
tense that I was glad to moisten my I kept moving mechanically forward with
parched lips with the blood that trickled scarcely a hope of ever reaching the tap
from my lacerated hands. With panting  I can even at this distant hour, vividly
heart, and eyes dimmed with dust and recall every feeling and thought, of thi
perspiration, I picked my way upward, awful period during which I was scaling
now grasping a twig to assist me over a those dizzy crags, and hanging overtilse
treacherous point, then gaining a narrow frightful depths,with the grimunwelce
winding shelf, or wrinkle on the face of visitor staring me full in the face.
the mountain, I would tremblingly creep With a panting heart I clambered on,
along the crumbling precipice, by hug- along the very brink of the beetling cragi
ging my, form as closely as possible to the which in some' places projected over the
perpendicular wall above me, scarcely savage gulf; the wall so deep and per i
daring to cast 'my eyes for a moment dicular that a plumb line might have Iieri'
down the steep precipice by my side.  dropped a thousand feet below, almost
On 'arriving at the abrupt termination without touching the wall. From thWf
of one of those narrow and dizzy shelves, dizzy height I still ascended, mistrusting
along which I had been groping "on all- every foot-hold, and cautiously ehaling
fours," and crawling serpent like, I laid every root and twig, before traitix~46
hold of a green bush that appeared firm- their support, and often would thy uar
ly imbeded, in the rifted ledge, and en- in my hand showing the gossamer thread
4eavored by ,its support to reach the as its were, by which my life was ass


RAMBLES IN CHILI.

"RAMBLES IN CHILI.                 3)

peed, and the: necessity of unccasing'terly impossible, it having been with great
o ltion inmy movements.           peril that Ihad gained the spot where I
snai) swell or angle in the rocky wall then stood. Above me there was no chance-
had:shut Harry from my view, but still I for escape, nothing was seen but the
et ildoccjsionally hoar his cheering voice, smooth surface of the rock. Every bush
or adeep rumbling sound would apprise and projecting crag that seemed to offer-
m. that he had torn from its bed some aid had failed me; my brain grew giddy
huge stoun, which startlingly awoke 'the when I gazed below. My left foot was.
savage solitudes of these dreary wilds, in becoming weak, and my knees began to'
its fearfully. impetuous course downward tremble violently. A short distance be'
toth® plains.                       yond the reach of my right foot was a,
At such moments of fearful anxiety I slight projecting corner of the ledge,
would hold my breath in silence, expect- which I fancied I could reach, by letting'
ing, also to hear the outcry of my corn- go my hold and jumping towards it, but
panion,.as.he slid into the.depths below. for aught I knew, it was as frail as those'
It was pot until I again heard his move- that had already crumbled beneath my
ments, or his encouraging hail, -,that I feet; the chances were ten to one
could breathe freely. While worming against me. If it gave way I should of
pyself along the top of one of these nar course accompany it, in its fearful de.
row scales of the mountain, my course scent; if perchance I failed to reach it,.
ha led ne upward in a nearly perpen- death was. equally sure. I could not re-
dicular~direction for some twenty feet, main where I then was but a few mo--
with scarcely room to squeeze along. inents longer. Appalled and rendered
At'  he top of the Jangle, I came to a desperate by the dreadful fate that threat-
r"e evei)spot, but here the ndge along ened me, I made up my mind to try the
which I had dragged myself suddenly fatal leap! I loosened my hold of the
terminated in an abrupt angle of the wall. rock, at the same time forcing my head
On arriving .at this stage of my zig-zag and shoulders slightly in advance of the
journey, while striving to pass round the angle, and while my body was swaying
angle, I found myself caught in a criti- fearfully to and fro on the baatling crag. I
ca situation, the very recollection of made a desperate, spring across the fright-
which makes me shudder. Every twig ful gulf. My foot caught upon the tiny.
arid root which !eemed to offer the least point, where I hung for a moment in hor-
sppportgave way one after another, snap- rible supense. -I had not given my body
ping like pipe stems as I touched them, quite impetus enough, and I now felt that
admy heart sunk dispondingly within I could not retain my balance; I was
mea smy horrid situation became more falling backwards.! . To save myself I
rnifest. I stood upon my left foot, part- pressed my -left foot with-violence against
lyfaeigg the wall, at the extreme point the side'of the ledge, which held me- for-
o the angle; my right foot seeking in a moment while I convulsively grasped'
vain for A resting place. To turn round the rough wall with my right hand. To'
mn rny narrow hinuts and retreat, was ut- my inexpressible joy, my fingers penetra-

I1

ted a slight crevice of therek, when I harry some eight or nine feet below sitt
immediately recovered myself.  After ting across this broken trunk, "high
regaining my upright position,in a few mo- anchored in the rifted rock," and with ap-
ments morel had,. both feet again upon a parent indifferance, whistling someAfa-
flat surface, and was in momentary safe- vorite air. " Halloo monkey !" cried 4
,ty.                                'you are taking it fair and easy, dodging
The tears of gratitude to heaven for my abou ton these pegs in the wall, for ex
sunlobked for delivererance, gushed freely ereise ?  However I am glad to find yot
fr-om my eyes. My frame seemed per- alive which I scarcely expected."
fectly exhausted, and my brain was for a  "Well! heaven be praised" cried Har-
moment completely bewildered with the ry turning his eyes up towards me, bearlid
frightful risk I had just ran. After a few ing with joy and stisfaction. "I never
moments I ventured to hail my compan- expected to see you again. I fell fron.
ion, and hearing no reply, my heart mis- tlhat craggy jet, to the right, and just
gave me. Still it may be, thought Ithat I above you, and landed in this tree just -a-
am so exhausted and weak I did not at you see me, and here Ilhad made up my
first mike myself heard, and I again mind, I should have to remain until thef
raised my voice to'its utmost power, but birds carried me off by piece-meal."
no answer came. I eagerly scrambled   "Did you hear me hail you a few me
up, as just above me appeared to terrni- tnents since," I inquired,
nate the swell that separated us. I -soon  "Yes, but I concluded you could not
gained this point, and gazed down for poor get near me, and resolved to keep mnUnr
Harry. After a few moments searching Ifyou take off your jacket and throw in
gaze among the broken crags, and shelv- one of the sleeves I think I can haul ry-
ing ledges, I discovered him about forty or self up."  I did as he desired, and pla
fifty feet from me, setting across the bro- cin the other sleeve in a rent of the rock,
ken trunk of a small tree, which had its and planting my knee upon it 'I held it
roots deeply imbedded in a crevice of the firmly, while he drew himself up so as te
wall, which was completely perpendicu- reach the edgesof the cliff with his hands
lar above and around him, thus holding and with my assistance Was soon by
him a secure prisoner.              my side.
After looking about me for a few mo-  Here we shook the earth ftor p r
ments, I noticed that a shelf of the ledge clothes, and sitting down, congratulate&amp;
ran nearly to a point just above him. ourselves upon- our success so far. .
Along this passage I crept down towaqds was a giddy sight to look below, far doi
him without having attracted his obser- into the distantavale from which we. ha4
vation. At-the point where the shelf broke with so much toil and peril ascended 4to
away,-was a sharp corner, around which this fearful height, where never. before.
I easily swung myself, and slid down a had a "heavier foot than the wild heros
steep inclined plain to a flat part of the trod." The sound of opr own voices rnig:
ledge directly over his head.       strangely on our ears, 'as they echoed
Having reached this point I discovered among these solitary wilds where never


40                       RAMBLES IN CHILI.

before had human accents broken in gles, scratches and bruises, and many
upon the mountain solituide hair-breadth escapes which it would be
Having rested our elves we rose to unnecessary to narrate, we finally arrived
continue our perpen icular journey. I in safety at the top of the mountain.
turried to the place by which I had de. With bleeding limbs, but grateful hearts
scended, but soon found that the ascent we immediately threw ourselves upon
here,. was impossible;-it being nearly the ground completely exhausted with
perpendicular, with nothing to serve as the fatigue of the day.
foot holds. Above us was a smooth firm  Our raging thirst, however, would-not
wall, without the least rent, crag, or bush allow us.longto rest, but soon drove us
to assist us in the assent. To the right, the to seek for 'water. Casting eager glan-
shelf on which we stood, terminated in a ces into every hollow and crevice, ,we
dirdet perpendicular fall of unmeasurable soon discovered a, clear spring gushing
depth. Harry suggested that I should out from beneath a shelving rock which
clamber upon his shoulders and endeavor looked as inviting as a similar one did to
tog each the edge of the shelf above us, Hagar in the wilderness. I kneeled upon
which in fast was the only feasible the bank and the long draught which I
scheme we could adopt. I accordingly then took was the most delicious one of
mounted upon his shoulders, and after my life.
stretching myself almost out of my The sun sank in beauty and grandeur
,leeves, found that I could reach only o behind the western hills soon after our ar-
within a few inches of the top. .I made rival at the summit. The beautiful golden
one or two further attempts but could notints and sparkling rays reminded us that
succeed, and was- obliged to dismount. she must be doubly beautiful and glori-

Then we commenced "cudgeling" oni
brains anew, to devise some means of
overcoming these obstacles. My eye by
chance fell upon a loose fragment of the
ledge, which I placed under Harry's foot.
and found it worked to a charm. I was
raised, when standing again upon my
companion's shoulders, sufficiently high
t -reach the edge of the shelf, and was
soon at the top. Having bent down a
pliant branch which grew upon the edge
of the cliff, Harry laid hold of the end,
aid after testing its strength, soon stood by
thy Wide.
From this point, after numerous strug.]

ous in her rising, and we determined to
avail ourselves of this elevated position
to view a scene so grand and sublime as
a sunrise, amid the snow capped An-
des.
We selected a suitable place for shel-
ter upon the margin of the, stream, by
the side of a high rock, against which we
placed long poles, and covered them
over with brush; inside we placed the
sofest bows we could gather.   Thus
again, supperless, we sought our couch,
on which we threw our weary limbs,,and
I slept during the night.as sound as
though rolled in the nicest rose blanket.

'i

U

CHAPTER VIII.
Seamen in general are not a praying stealing on, and soon it began to re4e
class ;. not so much so as they should be, the openings in the eastern mountaia
considering their dangerous and eventful ridges, as if the narrow gorges were
lives; yet I had not altogether forgotten lighting up with internal fires., The red
the pious lessons I had often received glare still kept creeping on with deep
from my now sainted parents, and I did ening tints, and gently gilding the fleecy
sometimes follow their precepts acid ex- clouds that lay hovering above the moun-
ample. That night, I am not ashamed tain tops.  The sublime scenery. w
to say I offered up a feeble yet fervent opened in all its grandeur.' The clouds
prayer to God, acknowledging his pro- were seen first fringed with crimson and
tecting care and invoking his continued gold; thee, a beautiful pink, nestled in
blessing.                          the folds, and lastly a delicate border oft
Harry awoke me while the stars were clear silvery white, like the bright aurielt
.yet bright ; a sweet gentle breeze was display of high northern latitudes, liand
playing about the mountain tops, and we thie margin of these floating wreaths,
were delighted to 'find it a clear, fresh, While the glorious sun came striggIg
.and glorious morning. We gained the up behind the mountains, gaily mantling
highest point in the vicinity, and calmly the eastern sky, with crimson, another,
waited in anticipation of the glorious and still more gorgeous scene burst.upon
spectacle. We were not long kept in our view in the opposite horizon; the scene
waiting ere Aurora modestly began her had apparently changed suddenly from
work by slightly 9aling the stars in the the east, and the brilliant view fleeted
eastern horizon, and they soon went out across to the lofty range of snow capped
one after another. As the last one faded mountains, rising with glittering white-
Way, the faint light in the east came ness, peak after peak, in the south west


RAMBLE IN CIIILI.

ern horizon, and standing out in bold re-
lief against the clear sky. On these
lwhite pyramidial peaks, the sun now
strikes, lighting with its first rays, sum-
mit after summit, and pyre after pyre,
setting them all glistening with rosy1
flames, like blazing cressets, kindled in
the sky. Ten thousand hues resplend-
ent with beauty were flickering and
dancing among the craggy peaks, glow-
ing with radient.splendor on our dazzled
sight, and as the golden light descended
the steep mountain sides, the whole range
seemed dyed with glowing pink, and
covered with sparklin g ge ms.
What an intermingling of lovely hues
and shades was here ! We stood silent
and breathless, gazing upon the magni-
ficent panorama, as though we feared the
kast movement might dissolve the spell
and break the enchantment; so supernat-
ural and radiant was the vision, so sud-
den and full of unimaginable beauty, so
nvishingly delightful were the splendors
which shot before us !
"In breathless awe our eyes
Coursed ip and down along the living light,
Now low, and now aloft, and now around
Visiting every step, each mount did seem
Colossal ruby, whereon so inwrought
Thesunbeam glowed, yet soft, it flamedintense
Sextacy of glory."
We watched the sun's rays as they
s'.le farther down the mountains side,
end saw the exquisite pink and rosy hues
gradually lade away into the clear light
of day, and then the lakes, forest, and
vers in the valley below us, wveie light.
d ip in turn, and became flooded with
the golden sunshine of a glorious morn-
The mountain sloped off on the west
with i~ gradual desceit into the valley

below; down this declivity we started on
the run, and bounding forward with in-
credible rapidity we soon reached the
valley, which on all sides presented a
fetile appearance, and our hunger now
prompted us to seek the where-with-all to
satisfy its cravings.
We diligently searched about for those
green berries which had heretofore( so
much contributed to- our support. We
discovered several different kinds but as
we were totaly unacquainted with their
properties we feared to eat them, and
were forced to satisfy our present wants
by chewing the bark of several trees
which we knew from previous use were
not poisonous.
We wandered along without keeping
any regular course until late in the
afternoon when crossing one of theasmall
streams that intersected the ground, we
came suddenly upon what appeared to
be a foot path indistinctly traced among
the grass and roots, and leading up the
stream a short distance, when it turned,
diverging at right angles from the water.
We immediately struck into this path,
and rapidly hurried along, feeling confi-
dent it woul conduct us to some human
abode. Our first conjectures were soon'
strengt en d. The track growing more
and more c isti ct the farther we advanc-
ed.
Upon assing a tree which we had
observed to bear a singular kind of fruit,
I noticed that one of them had been
lately plucked, the husks torn off and
scattered upon the ground, and a little
further on we discovered what appeared
to be a piece of the fruit containing th'
evident marks of human teeth, a convin-
cing proof that it was eatable.. I point-

42

RAMBLES IN CHILI.

43

I

ed this out to Harry, who immedi- ourselves approaching a hut by the way
ately picked a few of the best lookinglside. Walking boldly up we knocked for
ones, proceeded to test the quality, and admitance. No answer being given I
we were overjoyed to find the fruit deli- lifted the latch and pushed open  the
cious. It was a singular 'kind of fruit door. d We found the hut entirely deser-
rather larger than our pippin, with a ted, and with no marks of its very recent
rough exterior, but filled with a soft pulp occupation. Our conjectures were vari-
resembling somewhat in taste our straw- ous and contradictory concerning the
berries and cream; it melts as it were in habitation and its inmates. Aftei- a
mouth, and finds its way over the palate fruitless search about the premises, we
in a luscious tide.                made preperations for passing the night
We also found numerous other trees here. Among the remnants of house.
aid delicious fruit, which seemed scat- wifery left scattered about, we had found
tered in rich profusion about us. What a'horn of tinder with the accompaning
an abundance of wholesome danties, fire apparatus, and resolved to strike a
thought I, and all growing here spontan- fire for the mere sociability of the thing.
eously for the enjoyment of two wan- I gathered a bundle of dry sticks, and
dering sailors, showing the kindness of soon had a bright fire burning among the
our good parent in thus spreading a rocks in the center of the room, and the
table so bountifully in the wilderness,  smoke went curling up through an apep
We were afraid to eat as much as ture in the thatched roof.
our appetites craved, having fasted so  We early retired to rest, after covering
long, it might produce unpleasant results; a low shelf in one corner: that serve
but   r supper of herbs gave us new for the bed, with a profusion of long
courag  nd with lighter hearts we con- tender leaves which grew near at hand.
tinue  on. Towards sunset we found

+      t4 i Jz+',


It was near to or quite the 'witchingI
hour of midnight; my companion was
sleeping soundly by my side, and I had
Just faflen into a slumber, when I was
prtly awakened by feeling. some one
take ite by the arm, speaking some low
uhinteligable words. At first I turned
restless away, but soon becoming more
awake I could discern some person stoop-
lng over me whose tears fell fast upon
my face. I again turned towards the in-
truder, and saw by the flickering light
that it was a female form. As I turned
she cried in an enquiring tone, 'dios de mi
alma! tuno T'ilando? Finding myself in
this singular manner accosted by a female,
I resolved to see what would result from
my assuming this new name thus mys-
teriously suggested, therefore when she
again anxiously repeated the question,
I immediately replyed in a low tone 'Si
Pi mi amor, yo say Vilando,' she sprang
forward grasped me in her arms and
devoured me with warm and ardent kiss-i

es. These salutations were not in the
least objectionable, or repugnant to my
feelings, and of course I returned them
with interest. She hurried me to the
door of the hut where she stood gazing
me full in the face, repeating several
times 'Vilando! Vilando! usted Livinia' I
caught up the name 'Livinia' and repeat
ted it with accents of joy while she threw
herself wildly in my arms smothering me
with her affectionate  caresses. "Mi
amor! mi vido!' cried she in her fullness
of bliss. In the mean time all I could
do was to repeat over what I had now
ascertained to be her name and endeavor
as far as in me lay, to return a portion of
her loving caresses, not wishing to be out-
done by a lady in such matters-
Our noise soon awoke Harry, viho ex-
claimed at the top of his voice, 'What's
all this hubbub, what's going on here ?'
My new found friend started in surprise
on hearinganother voice. I soothed her,
and calling to Harry, I hurridly explained

RAMBLES I

what had passed, requesting him to settle"
affairs some how between us, before the
morning light should apprise herofthe mis-
take. Harry came forward, and after a
long conversation learnt that'Vilando' was
her husband, who had gone out on a
hunting excursion a number of days since
and not returning, she had supposed him
to be lost, and had therefore left her sol-
itary house and returned to her parents,
'who lived in the village close by ; that
she had seen the smoke and light of our
fire, and supposing that Vilando had re-
turned she came immediately to meet
him. Harry stated that the spirit of 'Vi-
lando' her husband, had passed into my
form, and in fact that I was "Vilando"

CHAPTER IX,

N CHILI.                           45
way into a village a short distance
through the trees, containing some eighz
ty or ninety houses, and half as many
more in the outskirts.
Every thing looked lovely around us
as we entered this little villiage. The
mornirg was now in its freshness,. the
path was skirted by numerous flowers
and shrubs of tender and graceful foliage;
emerald winged parrots, skiped about
among the trees, or whistled shrill and
clear from the thatched roof. All along
the banks of the river that swept silently
through th'e village, were seen rich and
luxuriant fruit trees, interlacing theik
boughs ; some standing at the very edge
of the bank, bending their gracefull bran-
ches into the water.
Their buildings were the usual frail
reed structures, that one would hardly
.suppose able to keep out the winter winds
as mild and temperate as they are,
Within they were if possible less cheer
ful. Each house could boast of but'lon
room only, which served in all the capac-
ities of kitchen, parlor and bedrooni. IY
each angle were placed the rustic ben-
ches, for the couch, and occupied as a
lounge by day, and a bed Jby night. The
fire was built among a few loose stones'
in the centre of the room, the smoke esca-
ping, sometimes through an aperture pur.'
posely left in the roof, and again as bed
it could through the numerous acci4eilat
rents and loop holes ; a few scattered
blocks served for moveable seats, but,
the ground itself was more frequently
used.
A flock of eager spectators followed s"
along while Harry and our guide, ue4
their tongues with the greatest dexterity;
that could possibly be, concieved6 It

although quite a different looking person
than formerly, and could speak but very
little spanish, all of which, he explained
to her entire satisfaction. I endeavored
to confirm the impression, by striving to
be as affectionate as a fond and confiding
husband should be.
Harry and myself determined to adhere
firmly to the story of the metempsychosis,
well knowing that her good ,graces were
desirable to secure our kind reception,
and if perchance her husband should re-
turn to get out of the scrape the best way
, we could.
We returned into the hut and having
renewed our fire sat down and continued
our conversation until morning- The col-
loquial part of tjhe interview, I could not
engage in, much to my credit, and conse-
quently was obliged to go through my
part of the play, in pantomime which I
did with such gusto as to fairly astonish,
Harry, with my repeated outbursts of af-
tection, and unceasing admiration of my
fair "inimorata." At day light she led the

i


48                      RAMBLES IN CHILI.

.RAMI3LES IN CHILI.                 47

appeared to me one complete Babel
However, they explained the matter ac
agreed upon, which I soon discovered, by
the strange and curious glances that were
directed towards ne, and the misteriou
handling of my person by some of the
bold ones among the crowd. The parent.
of Livinia readily received me as themi
son-in-law, and I was at once domiciliated
as Lord of the castle inthe old hut where
we had taken up our night's quarters.
I cannot think that the whole commu
nity actually believed in the story we
'had fabricated, but not being able to
contradict it or disprove the story, they
let it pass, all for 'good gold.'  e en-
deavored by every means in our power
to gain the good will of the villagers,
and were successful to an extraordinary
degree. In a few days we were treated
and feasted to our hearts content. "Livi-
ia I found to be a lively companion, a
little given to coqueting with the roystering
blades of the village, but posessed of a
kind and generous heart, and otherwise
sufficiently domesticated. We often at-
tended the lightly fandangoes, and Harry
and myself frequently took occasion to
make ourselves agreeable to the "senori-
tas," and, although we were neither of
us much destinguished for our galantry
among the fair sex, we found our efforts
in this line proved eminantly successful
among these buinettes. Harry in partic-
ular was changed to a regular Lothario
and smashed up the young maidens hearts
like pipe stems. As for me, such at-
tempts were idle, for jealous eyes were
ever on the watch.
The men were an enervated puerile race
spending tleir time chiefly in idling and
loafing about, ,when not engaged in the
sports ofhhe village.

1I one day found a torn and soiled basis-
s ness card which by dint of much spelling
and supplying dificiencies, I finally made
out to read as follows.
HAZEN MITCHELL.
Dealer in Lumber
Bangor, Me.
How this card wandered away into
this out of the way place, others can
conjecture as well as I can, but I care-
fully preserved it, as containing the ouly
scrap of the English language which I
should probably see for some time.
Soon after our arrival here, the whole
village was thrown into intense excite.,
ment, on learning the arrival of a small
party of Araucanian Indians in their !vi-
cinity. It was probably a small party
lured hither by the chase, evidently
unconsious of their close proximity to a
Spanish town. These Indians ,are a
brave and warlike beople, whom the
Chilians have never been able to subdue,
and they still hold undisputed sway, over
a large extent of country. They are di.
vided into numerous clans and hold
the spanish race in the greatest abhor-
ance, waging a war of extermination
against the whole race, murdering the
inhabitants of the frontier, and frequent-
y making descents upon the villages
and towns. It was considered by the
Spaniards a praiseworthy act, and religious
duty, to destroy these terrible enemies
whenever chance threw them in their
power. The present seemed a fitting
opportunity, and the whole male popula"
tion capable of bearing arms were soon.
in their saddles. Harry and I,'of course
could not remain behind, but fully armed
and mounted, we joined theft ited

J
1
i
i
i
I
j
1
i
i
,,
;1
i

I

throng.  The most perfect discipline mined look, and charmed with the courage
was preserved. Our commander was he displayed. We were however soon
a veteran soldier, who'had fought in the seperated again by the reeling mass of
'Liberating army,". under the redoubt- warriors, who were swayed about in the
able "San Martin."  We took up our conflict, like the billows of the ocean. j
line of march about noon, and in two fell to the",ground foundedd in my ari
hours hard riding, our scouts reported us and side, just as the tide of strife and
in the vicinity of the enemy. We soon blood receeded from me
saw the smoke of their camp fires, curling As I lay upon my grassy bed watching
up among the trees less than a mile the death dealing blows of the fierce
from our present position.          combitants, I saw the brave youth with
We diverged from a direct course, ta- whom I had crossed weapons in the
king a circuitous path to the rear, hoping height of the battle, reeling and sinking
thus to cut off their retreat and take them beneath the blows of a mass of his victo-
by 'surprise. Having made our circuit, rious enemies, anid his tall form fell blee-
we turned and stealthily advanced tow- ding by my side beneath the sabres
ards their encampment, which they were crushing weight. The spaniardsrushing
about breaking 'p preparatory to their with fury upon their prostrate enemy
return homewards, They discovered our were about to dispatch him, when I in..
approach in time to form themselves for terposed, and even at the risk of my own
the attack resolving to sell their lives at life succeeded in staying their uplifted
a bloody price. We vastly out-numbered blades.
this little band of half naked savages, le alone of all that brave band of
yet like heroes they fought and fell ;- at warriors survived the carnage, and furious
the first onset, fierce and rapid were and loud were-their demands for the life
their blows, as they charged upon our of my, protege; yet I finaly persuaded
ranks, but death only was the rep ard of them to grant me this favor, as he was
their devoted bravery, and as gras be- wounded and disabled. Harry also seo-
neath the mowers scythe, they fell t ick onded me in my efforts in right good
and fast upon the plains; still, as t ieir earnest.
numbers melted away, they rallied  he  Our wounded, some si or eight in .
closer, forming a chain of human  unks, number, were carried on ' ters to the
whose bright steel flashed like lightning, village, I had my Indian friend conveyed
in the sun. At last a furious charge from to my house, where we were laid side
our more numerous troop, pierced their by side upon the same couch, his thank-
centre, scattering and breaking  their full looks amply repaying me for inter-
ranks, and we were thrown promiscuous- feeding in his behalf.
ly together..                         Harry was more fortunate than I was,
I found myself hand to hand with a having escaped with a slight discoloratiott
noble looking Indian youth, who fought of one of his eyes. The bone of. my
with the desperation of a tiger. ' I was right arm was shattered, whild the wound
impressed with his resolute and deter- in my side, was but a flesh cut, and


proved to ho a matter of but little conse- the poor fellow. He caught my hand
guence asides from the loss of blood,  and covered it -with kisses, and other.
The 'dead bodies of our slaughtered wise manifested his joy. I impressed
fows, were buried upon the battle field, the idea forcibly upon his mind, that ho
and. the remains of our party were borne should be liberated as soon as he recov-
i solemn triumph to the village church, ered,.but that extreme caution must be
Where mass and prayers wyre offered for used. He seemed to recover more rap-
their souls, and they were buried in all idly after this assurance of being again
$Jid Kpomp and- pageantry of the church. restored to his hills and lakes, and of
Many a lone virgin knelt down that night, again clasping the forms of loved ones to
te pray as only loving woman can pray, his breast,
tot~the soul of her departed lover; and   arranged our plans of escape in this
ary;a fond bereaved mother, sighed wise. Guvedio was to appear still very
over the form of her son, as he lay stretched sick and feeble, when any of the Span.
out a mangled corpse upon the bier, but iards were present, but when we were
with Spartan pride they bore the crushing alone, he was to exercise  himself as
blow, while their religion comforted them much as possible. I had learned from
withthe assurance, that this earthly part- him that he was the acknowledged sue
jng is.not eternal.                 cessor of the present chief of his -tribe, a
,. Between myself and the young Indian kind of'"governor elect." I furthermore
captive, soon sprang up a sympathy and found that the chief was not his father,
fellow feeling, which was not long in the successor being elected from among
-ipening into a firm attachment and sin, the whole tribe, and probably taken on
cere friendship. We were in a short account of his acknowledged superiority.
time enabled to make ourselves under- I afterwards found that their native gov-
stood by signs and looks, and by our dif- ernment was somewhat Pastoral, the
6eult and   imperfect communications, chief being elected for life by the free
whiled away the tedious hours of our re- suffrages of the whole community ; so
povery. I was kindly treated by the that his office is more that of a father and
whole neigh borhood, and I rapidly, im- counsellor, than that of a despotic ruler;
proved under their kind and skillful treat- that they all looked up to him for advice,
mhnt. My Indian friend, whom I shall and that the successor, although not ex-
tall by his Indian name "Guvedio," I was actly ehosen, was by common consent,
rejoiced , to find recovered as fast as'agreed upon before the decease of the
-myself. I learnt from Harry, that it wasincumbent. Guvedio had been admitted
the intention to send Guvedio to Morla and as the successor of the old chief, for
gpnfine him in a dungeon, if he should three years. He described his country
,recover. I imparted this unpleasant in- in such glowing terms that I fairly
formation to him, while at the same time beca e enchanted with his description.
I gave him to understand, that I should  After I had sufficiently recovered to
)assist him to escape to his own country, walk about, Harry one day came to me,
Whiich assurance completely enraptured saying that he was about to start in pur-

f

tRA1 i3IES IN c iiiA

RAMBLES IN CHILI.

40 ,

48

+

Wit of a wite. I replied to hira that I
thought there was but littl  need of
that, but he seriously informed' me that
he had heard of a rich old Englishman,'
who had a large and valuable plantation,
well stocked with cattle &amp;c. He was al-'
so the owner of a rich silver mine, a source'
of unbounded wealth. This man was re-'
ported to have but- one child, ai only
daughter, whorl the father had frequent-
been heard to say, he desired to marry to
some countryman of his' own.
The lady was described as, having a
remakable strabismus of her eyes, and
being somewhat deformed in her person,
but Harry declared that the silver-mine
would cover all these blemishes, and, he
was determined to hunt her up. "But
what is the distance to this 'El Dorado,"'
I asked. "Some twenty or thirty miles
only,-if I find it a pleasant place to live,
I shall send for you, and perhaps by the'
aid of the old man's silver mine, we shall
be able to get back among civilized peo-
ple once more."
I could say but little for or against the
project, and I found it useless to murmur.
He parted from me full of visions of fu-
ture happiness. I did not fully realize,
until after his aepature, how much I was
indebted to him for companioLship. . I
grew lonesome and melancholy. Ibegan
to imagine him in all kinds of danger
my fancy pictured him dead or dying a
thousand times, and I finally settled
down in the firm conviction that I never
should see him ag .
One day after my Indian friend had
fully recovered, and was descanting on1
the happiness of his return among his
people, I enquired whether they would
receve me, if I should accompany him,

Ion his retur . He appe as p     ::d
|what to say in reply, but soon intgo
by his signs that his pedjle were .i tel'
opposed to the Sparliards; and wlef I ie
formed hini that I was riot a
although I could not make hiin u
derstand the matter of nati6naliy, le;
seemed pleased ; and wofId reped dver
American with the most singular and v
rious emphasis imaginable; aridl themern
"no Spanio," the meaning of Whichlh&amp;
perfectly understood. I soon perceived
that, as these Indians kniow nodii-sida
of races other thannatives and S antardf
it would be difficult to make them believe
L was not a "Spanio." Still Guvedio, the
more he considered the matter, the more
anxious he betalne to introduce me to his
people, and finally would not admit of a
denial. I could but admire the delibera-
tiveness with which he canvassed the
question of taking me to his home,,and I
felt perfectly satisfied after his first decis-
ion, it would be safe for me to venture
among them.
Giving up all hopes that Harry would
ever more be heard from, I decided
to leave with my Indian friend ; the life
that I led having become monotonous in
the extreme. We made all our arrange-
ments for the departure, and I had the
young Indian (still apparently unable to
stand 'alone,) conveyed to one of the
houses in the village to be cared for,while
my cabin was undergoing some repairs.
I took this precaution to hide my conni-
vance at his escape, not wishing to gain
the ill will of those who had thus far be-
friended me.
The first night after his removal, the
sick man disappeared. Their surprise
can scarcely be imagined, on finding in


RAMBLES IN CHILL
the morning that the bird had flown. I lake, agreed upon between us as a place
immediately proposed pursuit, but they all of rendesvoitz. There I found him with-
acknowledged that it was useless, as he out much trouble, and mounting my
had some six or eight hours start, little spare horse, he took the lead and away
dreaming that all this time, he was some we scampered through the forest. In
half a mile from the place, snugly hid in two days we were beyond the habita-
a hole previously prepared. The next tions of the Spaniards, and the third day
day I signified my intention of starting off we approached the borders of his own
in pursuit of Harry, and providing myself country. We stopped. but twice during
with two fleet horses, I started on my the first two days ride, nor more than
cruise, leaving written directions for him three hours each pight, on the third how.
should he return. Guvedio had preceded ever, we rested ourselves and our jaded
me some two or three miles, and had horses during the night.
stopped in the neighborhood of a small
f-
-4

CHAPTER X.
I shall hurry over the particulars of Of this interesting nation but little, ac-
this ride to scenes more interesting. - count has ever been given, and of the
Reader, the region tro which we are interior tribes scarcely any thing is known
now approaching, and the race I am John'M. Reynolds, Es'. made a short vis-
about to describe, is far from being an it into the southern part of the country,
imaginary picture. Itis well known to along the sea coast, about the year 1834,,
the South American Traveller, that the and published a very interesting account
Araucanian Indians still remain in the of the people. This is all we know of
same wild and independant state that them, save a few general narratives;
they did when Pizarro first landed on and from the deadly hostility existing be-
the shores of the Pacific. They have tween the natives and the Spaniards, it
sacked and burnt whple towns and villa- seems almost impossible that any of the
ges, and laid waste a large extent of whites-unless by some such accidental
country. They have also founded cities :hance as befell me-should ever ven-
of their own which in turn have fallen ture among them. It is therefore a source
into the hands 01 their enemies. The of gratification to reflect that these "Ram-
city of Conception, now containing some bles" will .afford some interesting  in-
20,000 inhabitants, was founded by the formation concerning a race so peculiar,.
Araucanians ; and for many years they and a region so romantic, and delightful.
held undisputed possession of a large sea- In the afternoon of the fourth day, while,
port town south of Talcahuano called approaching the Indian village, the home
"Aranco".                          of Guvedio, he was all alive with excite-
It was here that the American ships ment.
Hero, Herselin, and Ocean, together with - We had struck t  river upon the
the English ship Perseverance, were tak- banks of which the'lage was sitt-
en possession of by these natives, in the ated, and were wending our way along
year 1820.                         its bank with our jaded beasts, when


RAMBLES IN CHILI.

RAMBLES IN CHILL

suddenly I observed lmy companion, leap
from his horse crying, "Metina! Metina !" 1
and at the same moment, I sawa young l
Indian girl bound forward with a light
airy spring to his side, apparently as ifi
she had just droped from the clouds, and
clasping her arms around him  without
uttering a word, she stood surveying me
with the most wild and enquiring look.
I still kept at a respectful distance as I
observed Guyedio explaining to her the
relation in which I stood to him;'and his
obligations to me.
It was some time before he could make
her understand that I was a friend. At
last I deemed it a fitting opportunity for
rue tooin te group, and dismounting, 1
p uiked an oak-leaf, and approaching the.
'timidcreature, I gently placed it in her
liand. She receivd the sprig with so
find and intelligent a look, as almost in-
ced me to imagine she knew the son-
tinnent'
T will endeavor to describe the appear-
-nce of this lovely forest maiden, as she
afterwards occupied an important part in
the drama of my sojourn among this sin-
gular people.
She stood about five feet eight inches
hg height, straight as- an arrow; her fig-
-re was plump rounded and natural,
with a stately majestic carriage; her long
black hair-as glossy as the ravens pluipage
coated in waving tresses down her should
deks, the jetty looks clustered in from her
tooth brow, by a wreath of wild flow-
ers and green leaves, which she wore
around her head as gracefully as the
"rown of the Brittish Queen.
A plume of gaudy colored feathers
intng gracefully drooping from her floral
head dress, giving her quite a theatrical
appearance. Her arge black eyes, were

as bright and sparkling, as if a glittering
tear was gathering in the rounded orb;
her complexion was that of a dark bru.
nette, and when the smiled, or was ani-
mated in conversation, she . displayed
a beautiful set of teeth, pearly white, be.
tween a pair of tempting lips, that would
almost make a lover forget his mistress.
Her dress was of primeval simplicity.
It consisted of a plain linen skirt,
which was secured aro    her waist,
reaching as far down towards her feet,
as the skirts, of some of our beautiful dance.
ing Nymphs, who have oft and many a
time, entranced the patrons of the Bowe-
ry.
She wore neither shoes or stockings,
yet there is not a belle in New England
but would have envied, that small ele-
gant foot, so narrow, so delicately form-
ed, so beautifully turned at the ankle.
In her ears she wore the brightest jew-
els and fBowers, she could find. Her
joyous laugh and gleeful shout, echoed
melodiously among the hills. She was
as wild and daring as the mountain goat,
and almost as fleet and nimble in her
antic sports. Such was "Metina" the
sister of Guve dio, and upon further
acquaintance I. discovered that her heart
was all unscathed; the image of none of
her brave wooers, had been stamped
there. She was "in, maiden meditation-
fancy free,"
After a few moments conversation,
Gutedio deemed it the safest plan to
send her forward to announce our ap-
proach, and impress the natives with
frielship towards me, as the preserver
of their young chief. She sprang nimbly
upon pne of the horses, and was off in 0.
mq~mppt,..

52

Never was a .scene more wildly pic growth of the forest, but beneath tle
turesque, or more grand and beautiful, outspreading branches, was a carpet. of
then this to which I shall no?' introduce rich green grass grown over profusely.
the reader.                         with the richest flowers, save where the
Near the head of a small lake some feet of the inhabitants had trodden it
ten or twelve miles in diameter, and stud- down in the interlacing paths. Along
ed with green Islets, was a large area of the shore of the 'lake, the cabins were
nearly level ground scatteringly grown more thickly strown, but through the en-
over with tall majesitic trees, while the tire clearing they were seen scattered
green sward was thickly overspread, with about, each having a small garden plot
soft grass and sweet flowers ; the whole neatly walled, and fenced round, filled
strongly resembling the open pine forests with vegetables and the choicest flowers.
of Florida, or the scattered oak openings  The whole place was alive. with mep
on the shores of our western lakes. In- women, and children, who were wander-
land, the lofty rugged Andes reared theiring about in pairs and groups, and htr-
rough and impassable fronts to the vault ring to and fro. The children were racing
of heaven.. Down   their steep sides, over the soft turf and wading along the
the mountain torrents leaped in foaming margin of the lake, or sporting with the
brightness, from cliff to cliff, and hurrying light canoes on its silvery surface. In the
along in wild fury towards the lake more dense collection of cabins near
plunged in one wild bound over the moun- where the waves of the lake ripplel
tain cataract, into the quiet waters of against the strand, was more turmoil and
the lake beneath. While other little rivu- confusion. Here the boats landed,..the
lets and streams, that came bounding fishermen repaired their nets, the laun-
from the same lofty iceborne fountain,when dress sung over her work, and other bums-
they reach the level ground of the valley ness of importance was transacted, by
would go meandering in silvery threads the staid matrons.
among the grass and flowers sweeping The cattle, sheep and horses, were
gracefully down to the sandy beach:  seen grazing among the rich grass. and
The air was balmy and fragrant, and the gay birds tuned their sweet notes,
masses of clouds were seen hovering as the sun shone upon the leaves, grass
about the summits of the distant rnoun- and flowers. Such was the appearanee1
tains. The tall trees not unlike the cocoa, of this lovely spot, when "Metloina,",the
with their sweeping picturesque plume- flower of the village galloped into the
like foliage were gracefully waving in quiet vale, and hurriedly annou,nced the
the cooling breeze, and the birds were approach of her lost brother; with a stron-
singing shrill and  clear among the ger friend, to whom he owed his life; and
branches. The open grove alluded to, she added some compliments about the
which night contain a hundred acres or stranger, which she probablythought 'the
wore, was a perfect paradise. It was case and circumstances justified.
almost overshadowed by tall majestic  We were sufficiently near to hear the
.trees, without the rough unganl under- wild shout of joy, which went up from

53

0


RAMBLES IN CHILI.

the valley, echoing ameng the distant
l ills, as the glorious news spread rapidl
through the group. Soon we emerge
into the clearing; my heart beat furiousl
as I'beheld a mass of savages hurrying t4
wards us. Metina was foremost in th
group, still mounted. She galloped uj
to our side, and soon we were in the cen
ter of the dusky throng.
They were all dressed nearly as airy a
John Bull's protege, the celebrated "Mos
quito, King," who, it .is affirmed by
grave historians, holds his Royal Court
in the back yard of the British Consul
dressed in the airy costume of "a cocked
hat, ied' sash and spurs," and seated
astride of a Whiskey Barrel.
My friend Guvedio was instantly dragged
from the hose, and nearly devoured by
the caresses of the glad natives. His sis-
ter on some signal from him grasped the
rains of my animal and hurried me out
of the croud which was growing more
and more dense, and rode forward to her
own house. After a few hours I found,
that Guvedio had settled all scruples in
regard to myself. The natives would
occasionaly wander towards the htit
where I was seated with Metina and
others, and offer to me their thanks for
the kindness I had shown their friend;
all of which save the kind and thankful
looks' were at the time quite unintelligible
to me..
In an hour 1 was joined by Guvedio,
who hastened at first to the domicile of
the old Patriarch chief who enjoyed the
discriminative appellation of Au-gus-ti-ne-
vi. le received and returned the old
man's fond embrace stating to him his
situation towards me, the circumstances
of ils escape &amp;c, all of which was hear-
tily approved by the chief and the whole

L'1
I lE
x
Y
rr,
I
I
r'
1

F

it tribe. The next day was selected to
y present me'to the people.
d   The lodges of the Indians were con.
y structed in the most singular and prim.
o itive manner. From each side of the
e ridgepole, which was placed about eight
p feet from the, ground, were stretched
- dried bulls hides, extending on each side
at an angle of about 45deg. to the ground,
s where they were properly secured by
- stakes &amp;c. The back side, or rather
pediment end, was closed up with the same
material firmly secured with a sufficien-
cy of stout thongs. About one third of
l the front end was left open for the door-
way, near which the fires were built in-
stead of in the centre; the sleeping places
Were arranged along the sides of the
apartment upon the floor, they were com-
posed of the softest palm tree bows
placed with the stub end in the ground,
and bent forward so as to lap one over
the other, upon these were thrown a skin
and a few light bed clothes of home man-
ufacture. The bows were changed often
and when fresh and new afforded a lux-
urious couch. A large skin separated
each bed from the main apartment and
from each other. The cabins contained
two, three, or four beds according to the
wants of the family. On the front side
of these snug bed chambers, was placed
a large square log which' served for the
seats. Their provisions, and stores were
usually kept in a small out house attached
to the main cabin, where were stored such
articles as could be conveniently dispensed
with from the house.
The most scrupulous. neatness was
observed in every department of the
household, and the premises. Although
the fire was built upon the grotind, the
hearth was always kept clean and neat,

RAMBLE
no dirt of any kind was suffered to gather
ar und the premises, and in fact the whole
op ning was as clean and smooth as
Bo ton common during the pleasant
x nth of June-,
No descripton of mine , can possibly
give a correct picture of this delight-
ful valley, nor can it be conceived by those
of more civilized communities, who toil
and drudge, on the cold and barren soil

of Maine, "where thorns and  thistles,
grow and flourish instead of wheat, and
cockles, instead of barley ;" where a few
feet of our rocky soil is often the bone of
contention among neighbors, and the
fruitful source of never ending quarrels;
it cannot be conceived by such, how hap-
py, contented and peaceful are the inhab-
itants of this fairy region.

S IN CHILI.

55


RAMBLES IN CHILI                     57

CHAPTER XI.
Our establishment was thronged dur- yet his tall stately form had but slightly

ing the evening with numerous visitors,
and I noticed with pleasure the univer-
sal attachrd&amp;ent with which Guvedio was
regarded. He would turn to me often and
endeavor to explain the substance of
their remarks; some of the more fiery ones
I noticed were anxious to sally out and
visit the Spaniards with a sprinkling of
war, and Guvedio appeared disposed to
listen favorably to the scheme. His eyes
would brighten up at the thought of
victory and revenge. When we were
alone I endeavored to dissuade Guvedio
from the project of invading the Spanish
settlements, telling him that in case his
people succeeded in breaking up the
village it would soon be again inhabited,
as the Spaniards were as plenty as the
leaves on the trees. I described to
him the large cities of Conception, Santi-
ago, and Valparaiso, and as I heard no
more about it I suppose the project was
abandoned or postponed.
In the morning I was conducted to the
chief, where I found assembled all the
tribe, male and female. The old men
and females were seated nearest to the
chief, whose whitened locks betokened
that the weight of years was upon him,

yielded to the inroads of time. Guvedio
sat at his feet, and myself, being the ob-
ject of consideration, was seated close to
my friend who acted as a sort of interpre-
ter. In answer to the first question as to
what nation I belonged, I gave then to
understand that I came from the north, a
great many miles, over a large lake a
thousand times as large as theirs ; that I
came in a large canoe that would hold an
army of men. My description of the
working of the vessel filled them with ex-
treme wonder ; but old Augus-ti-ne-vi nod-
ded his head in a knowing manner, and
assured them that he had heard ot such
a wonder before.
I told them that the people ofmy coun-
try were as numerous as the trees in the
forest; that they traveled all over the
world; that there was scarcely a spot up-
on the whole globe which had not been
visited by sone of them, and that I, par-
taking of the- roaming character of my
countrymen, had been led to visit them
here. I furthermore informed them that
some of my people could make machines
to travel through the air like birds, and
that some day they might be surprised to
see some of them fly down from over the

mountains and alight among them like a them to renewed attempts; and in a few
large condor. In fact I left them impress- days they were as expert as the most
ed with the most exalted opinion of both celebrated equestrian performer in Amer.
myself and nation, while on my part, I ica
had also imbibed,. in the mean time, the The females joined in the sport, and!
highest opinion of their devoted attach- succeeded as well as the males. Metina
ment to each other, and of the principles the belle of the village, was the most ex-
that governed their social intercourse.  pert and sprightly lass among them all.
The females were generaly handsome, The rapidity and skill with which she jer-
modest and virtuous; their manners and formed these difficult feats were truly as-
dress, it is true, were somewhat different tonishing. This daring and noble . girl
from the belles of Broadway, but their was all life and animation, and from the
general character for virtue and decorum, first moment of our meeting I was 'en*
would pass a much closer scrutiny. Yet raptured with her superior loveliness, her
the sexes mingled together continually in daring spirit, and with all, her deep devoid
all, sports and pastimes, some of them tion and strong affections. She was often
rather indelicate when squared by our the companion of my rambles and dx-
own rules of propriety, as will be seen cursions, in which she showed her skill
hereafter.                          in the use of the canoe, or guiding the
Notwithstanding this, free and unres- mettlid steed; and when occasion called,
trained manner, there had never been an she would glance her keen eye along the
instance known of a family circle being polished surface of her rifle, and speed
destroyed and their hearth made deso- the deadly missive with the unerring aim
late, by the unfaithfulness of a wife, or of "Leather Stockings." At other times
disgraced by the errors of a daughter. she would enliven the hour with her me-
What a contrast to the Empire city, where lodious songs. While I gazed n this
thousands of female souls are immolated beautiful creature, I must candidly admit
on the hellish altar of 'the Brothel, that that, I oung as I was, the -arrows of love
sink of semi-beastiality, the den of the "entered the breast of the wild dreaming
unblushing harlot; and where, too, they boy."
are protected by the depraved Judges as We were often followed in our tramps
necessary evils,                    by whole troops of the bright-eyed village
The males were a' stout robust class, in- maidens, who would caper about among
ured by education and habit to a life of the trees and grass, each striving to out-
exercise and activity, and extremely fond do the other, in their efforts to please, and
of actirie sports.: On one occasion, I shooting from their eyes sparks as bright
performed several somersets in imitation and gleaming as- those that Prometheus
of circus performers, and walked ground stole frorp Heaven. They were all pas-
among them upon my hands, a feat which sionately fond of flowers, forming them into
highly delighted them, and in their ef- head wreaths, necklaces, &amp;c., some almost
forts to imitate me, they at first received covering themselves with garlands wreath.
some severe falls, but this only spurre d ed from these bright jewels of the forest


RAMBLES IN CHILI.

The young people were in the habit and new, and was considered among the
every few days of swarming into the ad, natives extremely healthy. A variety of
jacent forest, in large parties, and gather-jdishes were served up while I was among
ing a sort of sap that flows from a singu-:them entirely new to me; some of which
iar kind of tree, resembling somewhat our I admired, and others which I could not
small, white birch, but growing to the relish. Their salmon trout were nice, and
height of forty or fifty feet; with a heart their method cf cooking them was a great
or pulp like the elder runniog'through the improvement to ours.
centre, the whole length of the tree, filling Both the lake and the hamlet on its
a smooth round cavity as large as a man's banks bore the name of "Won-seta" deri-
arm.                                ved from  two Indian words-"wone,"
On puncturing the tree a fluid escaped, drink, and "seta," sweet;' consequently
which was gathered into vessels by the meaning ", sweet drink," a name applying
party, and carried to the villages, where with equal propriety to the limped waters
after a peculiar process a most delightful of the lake, and the delicious beverage
beverage was produced. This drink, made along its green and fertile bank,
however, was only palatable when fresh

CHAPTER XII.
One day I was conducted by Guvedio They pointed out to ie their parints'
and Metina to their cemetery. It was tomb,&amp;d I was strongly tempted to'reW
a delightful spot, on one of the green quest 1iem to open one for my gratifica-
islets of the lake, about an acre in extent. tion, but I restrained my Yankee curiosi-
T   surface had been cleared of the trees ty, doubting the propriety of such a re-
all excepting the margin of the island, quest. The sepulchres were so arranged
which was skirted round with a thick bor- that the air had free circulation on all sides,
der of low shrubbery. The open area and although the boxes appeared perfect.
had been artificially planted with flowers ly tight, the air undoubtedly found en-,
and beautiful shrubbery, whose perfumed trance within.
breath went up in grateful incense, while  Their religious ideas were extremely
the melodious songs of the birds were vague; from all I could gather, I was led
heard as they sung their solemn requiem to believe they acknowledged the immor-
among the old tombsq dedicating with tality of the soul-a spiritual existence
holy sanctity this home of the dead.  hereafter, and also, that the spirits 9f,
The bodies were placed upon stages the departed still hold communion with
erected about eight or ten feet from the their surviving friends, and in fact gave
ground, enclosed in strong wooden boxes. that as an inducement for good,,acts -at
the air being so pure that no animal sub- all times,.as they were ever upder the.
stance was in the least affected by expo eyes of those friends who were dead, yet
sure to the atmosphere for ages. Icould ever present.
ssearcely bring my mind to believe this at  Here thought I, in these aerial shrines
first, but before I left I was entirely con- repose tha congregateddust of Won-seta's
vinced of the fact by repeated observa- departed heroes; a race of Democratic
tion,                               sovereigns with the sceptre departed


60                      RAMBLES IN CHILI.

from them  and their crowns gone to which were scattered plentifully abon t,
others. I traversed this grove of mortal. and provide also a necessary store for
ity, this sad picture of that fate which is their few wants in case of accident.
enshrouding all 'things earthly, with  By education and association they
feelings of profound veneration, and were taught to respect the equal rights of
an almost irresistible influence to do all, to aid one another in their wants, and
homage to the bright and pure spirits, help each other in their misfortunes. Their
which were gazing down     u pon me intercourse was all concord and unity ;
from beyond the domain of death. Al- there seemed to be no cares, griefs, tron-
though such a spot is calculated to im- iles or anxieties ; there were no heart-
press upon the mind that great lesson of burnings or bickerings, murmurings, or
man's mortal doom, and shadow forth the quarrels among them; all were equally
image of the pale grim messenger and free, owing nothing to each other but
his uncompromising warfare ; although love and kind feelings.
the most tender and melancholy tssocia  That which I conceived promoted this
tions are wont to crowd upon one,' while happiness, fidelity and simplicity of man.
gazing upon the burial mounds of the red niers, was the total absence of those de-
man, and listening to the soft waving of basing vices, cupidity and luxury, and
the ygll9 Jeafed willows as they whisper their powerful agent money, the "root of
their rnogrxful dirge over the gravesof allevil," leaiving them entirely free from
the, Jndian warrior; yet here 1 dreamed a cloud ofcares, perplexities and the bit-
of(.naught save the bright spirit shapes ter contests arising from the desire of gain.:
ot death's unconquered victims,still hover With a country abounding in luxurious
ing over this consecrated spot.     stores; each man is rich and content with
eA few days sufficed to familiarize mae the certainty, that he caf, easily supply,
with their habits and occupations, and ev- his own few wants without encroaching
ery day seemed to interest re more and upon the rights of his neighbor.
more in their characters. They formed  Their games were of the most exhilara-.
es it were, one, family, bound together by ting character, and perpetual hilarity,
the ties of' interest, education, , and the reigned throughout the whole community.
ln established usages of their ancestors. Their time was consumed, sometimes by
This little nation,;founded and nurtured domestic employment in their delightful
upon these two essential principles, liber- village, and again in wild and extensive,
ty and equality, lived in happiness and roamings far into the bosom of the mun.-
cQntentment., Had fery ambition enter- taitn ridge, whither they pursued the wild
ed into;their hearts, it would have found game even to the topmost peak, exposed
no food !there. for its sustenance, and to hardships and, hunger, sometimes for
would soon have withered away. Gen- days together. Their happiness is doub-
eration after generation had been reared led, when after their return home from
in habits of industry and the domestic these toilsome expeditions, ,they gather
tues, enabling al taabundantly supply around their cottage doors,listenigggoand
their families with the necessaries of lifejrepeating the stoi-ies of their hazardous ad.

ventures. Then it is that the gayety
and liveliness of their dispositions find
free vent, and thejoyous song is borne up-
on the bosom of the quiet lake.
There seems to be something peculiar.
ly favorable to the germ of patriotism and
the developement'of noble spirits, among
high and mountainous countries; some-
thing that promotes the growth and ma-
turity of free and noble sentiments. It
was on mount Hope that the noble Philip
made his last stand, and here it was that
his young limbs were first trained to speed
the hatchet and the arrow, and from the
topmost peak of nature's temple he held
communion with the great Spirit. It was
the hills of Tyrol, the mountainous vil.
lage of lurglen that ga. birth to Will.
liam Tell, the deliverer of rocky Switzer-
land ; many of the mountain sons of that,
heroic region, have bravely fought for her
independance, and those wild Alpine cliff
long sheltered "Mezzini" and his com
rades. The grassy slopes and deep blue
gorges of the highlands of Scotland, have
ever been the home of many a warlike
clan. The Cpathian mountains have
poured forth from her rugged sides clouds
of warriors who echoed the noble Kossuth's
rallying cry of liberty; and our own "Green
mountain boys," during tlta, "times
that tried men's souls," flocked to  e stan-

leaves them free from disease and early
decrepitude, and this healthful physical
existence tends to increase still rmore',asp
the germ is transmitted by family and
blood through successive generations.-
In this "oasis" of the wilderness, this
secluded abode of happiness, I could.not'
fail to contrast in my own mind the  einv
ilized with the savage life, and Imust
admit that the savage life as here repre-{
rented produced the most favoxable, peO.
ture of true happiness. I would rot;be
understood as flatteringly and- poeficaly
comparing with civilization, the squalid
miseries, and the  mental darkness of
savage life, as seen in the forests of Amer-
ica, with their abject' poverty and drun-
keness; or as seen in the wild bush of
the south, sea Islands, whee,' notwith
standinig the delightful descriptions, of
poetic imagination, we find' the savage
invariably miserable and a mere animal,
eating dogs and raw fish, and sucking
sour poi from their dirty fing rs; their
bodies rank with the smell of cocoa-nut
oil, and almost unanimously festering,
under the diseases distributed among the
south sea Islands by Capt. Cook.
It is not such that I envy, but it is the
character and habits of the Araucanian
Indians, and of those only with whom
I was associated, and by actual observa=

dard of Jiberty; and heroically sustained tion noted their characterestic freedom
it, "in the name of the great Jehovah and and unalloyed happiness, barbarous and
the Continental Congress."         uneducated as they were.
Such bold and daring spirit I found  No purse-proud hard-hearted aristoc-
fully matured among the native warriors racy were to be found there, frowning and
of this mountain tribe whose cradles were trampling upon worth and industry, while
swung among the smooth glens and stu- toiling over the mid-night lamp, or expo-
penduous steeps of the Andes, and their sing their life and health in ngenial labor,
daring sports fostered and ripened the to enrich the cold and haughty tyrant.
germ of brave hearts. Their mode of life;There were no venal Judges sitting

RAMBLES IN CHILI.


RAMILES IN CHILL
with aomp and pride in the halls of jusje :perience the most opposition. they.
tice, watching with cold indifferance the grumble at them if they  devote them-"
laatseat wrung, from the hands-of honest selves exclusively to spiritual affairs?
pove tgand boldly poeketedby the money complaining that the temporal interests
gloated villain, or cunningly conniving at suffer; again if they attempt to encourage
the dark crimes committed in high places. agriculure and industrial arts, a hue and
Neither-do you there find innocent persons cry is raised that they are meddling in
the victimsof afoul conspiracy and con- matters which do not belong to them, thus
yicted y perjury on:the part of witnesses; placing those men and their prai worthy
or gancor, venality, and hatred, on the efforts in a difficult position. It  eens to
part of the*Judge,                  be more a spirit of jealousy at their- sur-
Let no verdant, youth. or unsophistit prising sucesses than  any thing else.
cated maiden believe that such wicked I was surprised to see that Lieut. Wise,
acts;are not known in our free and en-,of the U. S. Navy, the author of "Los
lightened land; that such passions do1Gringos," joins in this tirade. The for-
noteatist, .in this, the most cnlightened eiguers, wh9 have settled on the Ilgnd,
country :on 'the globe; for when they as y late visitor has remarked,  'are r the
grow wiserthey will find that they were "Most subtile and dangerous enemies with
greatly mistaken.                   which the king has to contend,-seeking
t With their virttuaand fidelity I could to undermine the influence of his coup-
not realize; that they were much in want selors, wihose intelligewee and experience
afsa spiritual adviser, or needed! any in-- are bringing he Political condition of
novationslupon their religrio's principles the kingdom fast to maturity. Their
and; custons nor'did I feel it my duty selfish and misschievous dispositions are
tointroduc to them any 6f the -nmer- masked under professions of friendship.
ousisect riani doctrines that prevade civ- ThIey talk of changes for the better bhu
olizeds communities. Yet I, am not one they aim at revolution. They .are wil-
of those who delight to, ridicule arnd op. ig to run the hazard of a great plitical
pose:the reformation which the missiona- etttihquake for.the chance of being hove
re  are,:eigaged :in; no I honor the nis- into statioiqs of emolumetnt and power.
ionary cause, and ever feel deeply mor- But if the present social fabric falls,.1Apy
tified and chagrined at the. rengarks 'of will be buried in its ruins; and there they
itheirp posers. Nor cool1 1: ever see uiay lie, sepulchurecd under the Jhorrors of
how. honest .nen, when contenmplating a betrayed people, and the eNecrations
the rapid improvement of the .Sandwich of the civilized workl.
-Islands,.couldspeak lightly of those devo-  Now that I am speaking ;of the mis-
'ted men,;who have brought about this sionarics, I will say a word of what they
happy change. Yet it is a fact that the were doing fifteen years ago, they had
-very men who, coming as. they do from schools scattered throughout nosttofthe Is-
civilized and- Christian .lands, should. be lands of the Hlawaian gronp where the
.the first toeustain this li' tie band of Christ natives learned to read and write the-
tian teacher, are those from whom) they English language, and were taught all the

1

R ABLE ITV'OI tLT.

r63

branches which are acquired in our comgroves an d rich verdure  The bitnnna
mon schools. At their schools the children aid oraine :trees reared their'- smiling
ofihe chiefs were constant attendants. heads, and stretchedout tfeir bountkt s
Thus early they imparted intelligence and arts laden with their precious and, life
virtue to those who now influence; and giving treasures, and forests richwith trop-
shape the destiny of these Islands, nor pical fruits, juicy and ltisciom0t Verevty
are their works limited aline to this where spread around as if to tantilize the
group. The following anecdote speaks suffering ci'ewv. These ehiaciatid nd
volumes in praise of their efforts. dying men raised their heads, andga d
Ira the year 1836 a vessel was cast with wistful eyes upon this tan iiizing
away on oie of the Savage Islands  that scene as they were borne aldng by die
dot the surface of the south sews. With'gentle breeze, snuffing tihe dbrs of tMe
great effort:they allanded safe from the luxuriant'valleys and proves. 'A th y
t'redk and built a hut upon the beach to swept ronnd a point'of land theydpetid
-  f6tect them'froti.thescorching i'ayof the upon a qdiet ittlebay, with hi tets
sun. Here:they were found by the natives hits scattered upon the sloping-des;
captured, and conveyed to°the , village, in;the centre of the village, rose .a ltge
a large fire was built and one after anotheristone church. "Oh here, are the mis-
they were brought forward, roasted alive sionaries! we are safe" they exclaimed at
and devoured by these benighted canni- once; and pulling close in to the shore,
bals, one alone escaped to tell the tale.  they were met on the beach by the
In later years another ship struck up-friendly natives, who held up the bible
on the -coral reef and sunk, the crew and welcomed them to their hospitable
barely escaping in the boats. After drift- shores.
ing about three or four days, they saw What a change had taken place here
the cannibal Island and pulled in to- in the course of a few years, and such
wards the shore. When the morning sun changes are going on throughout most of
dawned upon them it shed its golden the Islands of the Pacific, brought about
light upon a delightful Island, with cocoa by the perserverance, zeal, and pious
nut groves iising in all the beauty of tropi daring of the American  missionaries'
calluxuriance, but they feared to land, and is it right, is it manly for intelo-
They had heard the story of those who'pers to crowd in among them, and inter
had preceeded them, and they very nat-'fere with their good works, endeavoring
uraly dreaded the spear of the savage and to scatter discord and trouble among them!
the demoniacal revels of the cannibals, At the Sandwich Islands, even the Gov-
yelling around their roasting  victims. ernment of France has interfered, declar-
They pulled slowly along the shore gaz- ing that their brandy shall be admitted,
ing wistfully upon the clear streams of and the Roman Catholic religion intro-
water issuing from the mountain sides, duced. And in fact they have attempt-
leaping and sparkling in the sun's rays; ed the same game that they have played
meadows faded away in the distance, so successfully with QueenPomair, and
enchanting the eye with their shad y tthe Society Islands. The result of third


O4                          RAMBLES IN CHILL
late attack is not yet known, I believeithese people among whom I had been
our. government has done nothing, al- thrown as benighted heathens ; far from
though the American mission aies were it. They were born among the moun-
threatened with death, an 1r Consul stains and had a stern wild force it istrue,
treated with indignity; but it takes a long which shed where their adles had been
time for Uncle Sam to get his back up to rocked. They also looked  'th scorn on the
n pitch of open resistance, although he has tricks of the toilet. The  did indeed
often passed that point, beyond which for- wear plumes in their dark hair such as
bearance ceases to be a virtue. It was were plucked from the pinions of some
about ten years before he concluded daring bird that had battled, with the
th give Mexico her deserts, and John mountai storm, and sipped tUle water
Ball has beenbearding him in his den from the cataracts plunging verge; still
fora long time. However, none can deny they are in a remarkable degree free from
but the old fellow has good mettle in him fecity and disguised rvenge, as well as
when he is once fairly aroused.        er traits of the savage, and are such a
-'his digession arose from my excuse for people in fact as one might imagine
lot turning missionary. I did not view dwelt near the confines of heaven.

IU

S.

CHAPTER. XIII.

A singular costume is prevalent among ofour medical drugs,--as afo'reign neiiI
this, and all the various tribes of Arauca- writer admits-is, to amuse and div t:t
nians. It is recommended by tfie Disci- attention of the patient, while good dae
ptes of Esculapius who flourish there, as nature performs hei work,:andcegt
a remedy for certain diseases, and a grand disease, perhaps the practitionerofi4h .
charm against most of the ills that flesh beap will not suffer by a comparison w
is heir to. It is simply to wear a bean his more learned :brother of the pill.
at the side of the head over the temple. a majority of cases it would be far:
It probably operates very much as Chris- preferable to hang a bean to the~temnpe,
ties Galvanic belts and rings do. These than to put ,a pill into the stomacbr an4
simple doctors practice altogether upon of the. two, nature would, complain 0
the botanic principle, and explore a wide of the bean, she might be sorely p,,
extent of country, while gleaning their what to do with the pill,
barks, roots, and balsams, from the wild  There is something singular heri
glens of the Andes, and along the steep relation to sounds. The tremor of th a
mountain  es, down to the plains and tiles of air acting upon each otlhqr, a.
pampas below.                       preceptable at. a much greate ,,4is
There is one thing they can boast of than I had ever before believdpqssUle,
with pride and satisfaction ; their dimple I attributed this singular phenor a
remedies never kill, even if they seldom the extreme clearness of the atrhosple¢
cure. They rely much .upon the faith, and increased elasticity of the air,
and conceit of the invalid. But it may think I am within bounds. when, I1,
be strongly argued, in their behalf, that, that the common tones of a raaV&amp; 4
as the real design and legitimate province can be distinctly hear.aoI a lev&amp;

I

_,
§ff(, ,
.
-     s    s
Y
I
4


66                           RAMBLE
at a, distance of three miles. Sounds
aretore-distinctly heard across the water,
which with respect to conducting sound
is hdt14 greatest consequence. The
soldier's watch-words, have been heard
in this manner a distance of twelve miles
in then ighborhood of Gibraltar, but. on
the land it is far different. On the suT-
f# of the lake from one side to' the
® ex it appeared like talking in the
sage room, and on a quiet eve a whisper
pigy be heard from the opposite shores
with ease.
..he Irdians are, all excellent horse.
a and they, manage the lasso with
ai elkskill as their more enlightened
geighboro; and there is no lack for horses,
tley roam over the plains in countless
vW-s9 but arie'seldom captured save as
tdy ara reqttired for use,
ey *Ul take one of these wild ani-
x s and breakhimiri to the saddle,, in
M :ye. In this sport the young ur-
4tAre ever desirous to ehgage. It
Wbulfften    1 fill me with wonder, and
*.yp^s e to see the daring skill displayed
while breaking in a wild horse, to the
dle;and thei r eckless mirth at these
feats of hormaiship. While con.-
ng thd iuocence and happiness
of these children of nature, and their fairy
e I dold not-marvel that Guvedio
d4  t flypo ied. to fly thither to his
tntIikhhieatnoiige the. picturesque
Y   of the Andes; toythe sequested hut
tKe wild frui  and flowers that
Mbo   W±ound it ; the 'chrystal streanais
sh,;t li the green pastures ; the sweet
like (that 'nipples on the smooth white
dd;thevrdaintlawns and the anabrosial
1VIfdsif thie-'earthly paradise. '
'A fathons j~iitee and feast came ofi

ES IN CHILI.
upon the safe arrival of divedio, which
I will not forget to describe. I think the.
extensive preparations, were completed
the third day after our arrival. A large
bullock was to be roasted whole, as one
of the dishes'to be served up upon this
joyous occasion. In the morning early,
my attention was called to the ceremony
by noticing the village maidens prepar.
ing a large plat of ground in the- centre,
part of the comanon, by decorating th'e
trees with garlands of flowers and swee-
ping the green carpet clear of' all sticks
leaves, &amp;c., and spreading the calabashes
upon the bright green sward. At a lit-
tle distance the men were scooping out
a hollow place in the ground, of sufficient-
dimensions to contain the body of the
animal which wasto form the principal
attraction of the feast. 'After finishing
the excavation-, a large fite of'dried wood'
was built in the centre arid left to 'burn,'
while some were preparing the uncon
scions animal for the saerifice lHe was.
killed, neatly dressed, and'brought to the
primitive oven, inr which he vas pladea
after raking open the glowing coals;i
carcass was then filled with hot -tohet
the remaining coals' 'were spread ndl
glowing hot completely over:  the 'entire
heap, and covered with ,d leaves, and,
the 'whole complete  buried up with
hot ashes and dirt.
The females during this  nie, were
not idle but busily engaged preparing
the side dishes' and  accompaniiments
within doors. '''
After Completing all the'.'preliiinary
arrangements, the 'hour of banquet 'r -
rived. ' The horn'als sounded ajid the
guests were soon sdated. The'stewalrds
who had' voluAhteered for the o&amp;esion

I,

UAMD3LES r1 VCRLL

ThM'ro pelid the stfcking heap whi
seit forth'td savory siel;"harpening t
yapptits of th&amp; eager throig.° Haulin
forth the sizzli g mass they scraped o
the few clingihg ermbers, and quiet'
i    d1! b  di1Y            .  : Y.,
Paced this delicate morsel of vineso
upon a bed of clean, fresh leaves.
Tow commenced the carving which
was performed with astonishing dispatch
the children were 'hurrying backward
andfdrwards with the calabashes,suply
ing the hungry party, and' in less tim
than the Astor house waiters can serv
thii rfst course of soup we, were all a
work.4
I had begged off from taking my se
with Guvedio, and some of the olde
men, and seated myself by the side o
the lovely Metina nd a circle of othe
fai Ny  hs' endeavoring to do the hon
ors oftheable by passig round the extra
and tcetras. I felt happy although
cold scarcely understand a word of wha
as said. They talked to me in their
own lhio nd I replied to themin mmme
yet stilliby looks and acts we occasion-
al' ' understood a sentence, and this
su ceded' in entertaining oeh other,
Metina, in my estimation, was as love-
l' "as 'te very scene before us, She was
indeed in every action a genuine_ child
df i ture. Her 'tallnagnificert forrn,
hny cheekslowingwith liealtiand' her
fal 5li  wduld haebrought; back the
fires of youth tod'sie b6s'orn of a' lbany
auchorite, and howr should I, with the
blood of eighteen summers flowing like
dancing wild fire through my veins-
"Like Vesuvius' glowing tide,"
ward off the    flame  of love and
passion, which like lightning is bright
and fleree                 isbih

ch  "Who can view the iiend inose
T o Wear it? Who cai ouriouslr, behoail-%
T The smoothness and the sheen of beautieskegk
Nor feel the heart can never all grow  ai
I was greatfol-for her kind atteoao=
I loved to hearheweet m usicas.,0t.
I   ed to gaze on her lovely faoef
peer into lthuse bright and sparkling  +s,
ao pure and clear, that one .coulAp-
h parently see through their innlost d g
s inteoher very soul. I foundmthis'tigg
gem ofthe forest gifted by natureBjth
mind and intellect so natural andspiirg so
e warm  hearted and affeotionatee th ,
L that   'should have belied MnVv  ab
had I not loved her'; and as I lay 'ith b
upon the flower, strown ground byhe-
r side, this tender passion made xd  p.,,.
roads upon my heart
. ToWards the close of theybaigq
were cheered by joyous ani'iv't
son their musical instruments .bas-a
I particular strain/ a s-t tldof ione If
t
ant exploit, or' time hdored$dd,
drew  forth frbnmthe whole ltt4'
,wild burst ofapplause *hieh eehod
and clear among the hills.s     :r
The feast'lasted &amp;ta t'tWti 4  $
the ground  V'af left to"' the
pOttion and we wete presetly
'upon the lawn treading the
Indiai daicer  Sea1     ibf
vere formed; oe ron  theatti
a little dietaic fasdrbl4 h
tnass offro  iere y oth=a '     Af
_r_ form for afgr nd  dr'l t+f
music strue up; each leperate
began to dance roani= n      .posit..
tions, and the skill and zanoeii gt
the figureseemed" aobe,  o't gt e
timely chang&amp;efrom one ring t h li  .Y
er,ntil the euitsikr bad ai96b$

d .   t                        s.,tl.;" ,,x.
,  .
'ti,

_ a,   , -..             -.   ",,-., _  i '    r           i.                ; .  i n  rt;    " '  ,. +. "   :  .  }  . t y Y.Kn  ,r . st, x""
s#   =. ,. 's:  ;-.b t  ,; ._     's" .;   ;.  "._..+. _, '  E."._  1.    , 'Srx ,     3.;_c" za"4e:t$  _;... n,,*irrA:;?aY.t '

, k
,.     .,,


AM;1'SK      CHQILI,

t   part in the inner circle. Frequent
muista Ie occurred which seemed to afford
ci ue1nent to the others.
his' grand -entertainment- did not
r ak tfpuntil nearly dark, when one by
s'he company retired to their peace-
-hey hav- a game called comicw,
frdh resembling chess. This together
tipyh another called quechu, a sort -of
kgat rnnn, are their more quiet games,
and'it) which they take great delight.
said that polygamy prevails among
h fiefs who.inhabit the coast, but in
4hiirregiQn .I am confident nothing of
ah;kind is practiced, and I amled to
1elieve that it is only from the example
ohlpir more enlightened neighbors that
h ,ha-habit has been introduced'naong
thiefsof the frontier tribes. There
t   o-theitwomen are treated with less
federationn than among the Won-setas.
4   e title otithe-chief Augustenevi was
dutimfUlnen, he being a subordinate to
th   eeni, or head chief of altthe differ-
epiraneanian tribes t aupolican, the con-:
tjqeret of Gen. Valdivia at the-celebrated
;tf l'e    apel -who like Hanibal WasI
(#qient iione eye, and like him distin-
}ishea forhis martial deeds,-was one
s, enius of Ercilla the author of a
S tg i.poe ti called, the "Araucania,''
fer d imperishable renown on this
kty4ian warrior by celebrating in
'tie se his patriotism and military
V"1

exploits. His 'count of the amusing
and- characteristic manner of Caupoli-
can's election, sga proof of their ama ing
strength and powers of endurance.
It is described in the poem  that Ln
coyan the former Togui had occasioned
sonie dissatisfaction, and it was deter-
mined to select another in his place, and
the Ulmenes were accordingly assembled
for the purpose of filling the vacancy; but
were at a loss 'to select from among the
aspirants, when Colocolo an old chief,
proposed that the office should be given
to the man who could prove himself the
strongest of limb.
"A leader bold this desperate state demands,
To guide to vengeance our impatient bands.
Fit for this hardy task that chief I deem
Who longest may sustain a massive beam.
Your rank is equal-let your force be 'tried,
And for the strongest let his limbs decide."
They acquiesed in the props 1, and a
beam was produced of such an enormous
size that the poet declares himself afraid
to specify its weight. The first chief-,
tains who engaged in the trial, supported
it on their shoulders four and six hours
each ; Tucapel fourteen, and Lincoyaa
more than twice as long ; when. the as-
sembly, considering -his strength the
greatest were about to restore him to his,
former dignity. - At this moment Caupoli-
can the Ulmen of P lmayquen demands a
trial- and surpasses Lineoyan; and he was
accordingly: pronounced Toq ui or Gen-
eral-in-chief by acclamiation.

I

I4       . .

N.

'                 c

I

CHAPTER XI
In the course. of my  conversations the practice
pith Guvedie, I once described to -him informed-
an arfiicial fountain. which struck  himwas in rapt
with'thetrnost surprising wonder and astoan.. ordingly, w
ishmeni so mch was he interested in the tion oftthe t
description of his simple  contrivance having sel
that iMemharked his speaking of it to a treo the gr
number of the tribe, and as they alt ap number of h
peered to be so curious about  it, the excavate a
thought struck me that I could with their yards in diar
aidconstruet one here, in the centre of a sufficient
their delightful giope31 from the  hollow  ,The strea
trees that produced the delightful be erage convey the l
Ihave before alluded to.            "Wonseta"
This part of;the story has .awakened the basin; a
'some dubitation in the mindstof a few theystream .
to whom I:have related itAnd it .neyto and ,a-treacl
some of ry readers, appear rather fanci- points about
tul, and c ll' forth the rebuke whieh receive the l
the old' lady .administered to her# son were dexter
wked he at empted, a she supposed; to teans to tak
impose upon he credulity ,by the  story judged that
f~ the fying fish.             'e     (teen feet
-Iwas orvincedra my own ;raiad eA   Time few

'A"i
ability of thandetrtat d
Guvedio of thy fptp9
tures at the baredea' W
1ith the approval anddod
nbc       + omrn1 1ccd  ir,'
tribe,  :naennneed  e   .s
ected a spot nearly , in t
ove for a basir 1 a esti
ands turnedto in tcre
.f artificial pofldeh butsp
meter ndfour f     et
outlet for the egrplus 4
m from whiel ' 1
bright sparklingwat   r
was scheatyhalf
rude dam.hwas rw
to supply e sua     4,
h du along   ' etve
t two feetand al5#r}f
hollqosJes,. hilaloe92
on&amp;aind providing. Idta4
We the lgvelhof pa
rmy founteittheaedw$4
yapidlth swht
my dspiihd,

f; _     +"' 'ta .    ' Ste} "'-, . i'
3                      2 t                iry
f     'K ,  iA
'                                _                  al
y'
J 4 .r=h. .d._ ..

fi
.t ,     q

e        ' t


RAMBLElN CHILL1

*itd this novel.scheme, and my heart gaining the highest, acessiblet points
' l  ieme many times that all would be were seen following each other 'in rapid
,Y fi  e1althoughiy reason taught me succession from every ,nook and rocky
th$  o in pedirfleht'presented itself, but pedestal, revealing their pretty forms for
td- eult'ttnatter-ofjoining the ends ofa moment ini the air before their fearfull
teboden pipes securely. In this busi- plunge.
p        Wonsetas were adepts, they    I have sat hours together watching
dtured la gunr that worked  to a their glistening forms as they gambled
j         mnd by'laying the logs firm  and among. the sparkling waters, and some.
p-  i the ii carefuly,i I had strong hopes times forgetting the fairy land of imy pre.
Sets. It will:be remembered that sent abode, I found myself looking nar-
t4ikrogiwere forty or fifty feet long, with rowly torflns and-folks.
; obitd hole ruling through the entire - At last our excavations were complet-
rfth.   "ed, the pipes were all.laid and securely
J   Te tiatives were very fond of bathing, connected together, one end elevated in
~   xd:this work, in which nearly' all were the ,centre of the excavated pond abont'
~gigeda being laborious hnd carina fr - five feet'from  the bottom  and covered
j4 pratird, they were in the water three with a perforated cap like the pose to a
'  f   ines  da ;both 'sexes minglid  arden water pot; allIthat:now remained
6oiA     f~ together/their' black heads was to let the water on. doubt ifi any
"iIi,-'_    M ingabt like the buoys contractor felt mdr aitiety orilhian:mind
ig hetNIttw   sbietime beforo I 'at the sncce s of his most co'mpfloaitid
fs I -   rdino y todesty sufileientlytask than f'did-{when about toIdtdhe' ai
-fite ,t    c  ats as 'I had ter ,for the' first time into mr rustirf6;un
,s,      floated in the surfson the'hain. When ail wasreadywith a trem;
l        wport;itthee, other se.   blibg hand I removed the ping from the
&amp;   fe  y'fo and girls and even lit ,sbmerged end thus puttingg the whol c
mzijceseacelygknee''high, were seen work to'an tarrediate test
AEflig p the s'p sides of the   I stood foi  mometif almostibreathless,
$$Id olie thatchade( part of the!aike;' waiting the result, 'the' nineity of'my
Tds o t by the long roots and ind causing the.presitiration'tostand ii
Niit V hen that hung dangling high large drops on my 'foehead  The na
4 Naews~hesparing6 waters, 'then tives 'were standinye abatdinre looking
igt     selves {head foremost f6oin with wOndet.at'my gitatedt afPeianb
. o itst i  ing'-,rngs.  From  ah'aost I well knew  that -feiw, seenddd  would
0",efpo sibs ii'they cime le aP njd'etermine the faithfuleds'f thel' ork/
s4 from their:giddy heights,,a a1 aths I stoid in suspense, when shadenly
,ti     +had penetrating deep into ,aloud and boisterous shot froni thie vi..
th tyieding waes, with the clearness la'ge'bel w startled'tie+groe,  with'its
etitfd   arrows 4  l      'deep~e~ebs;nd, way° theyt'scampered
f       timtighteyed maids with like a flock of sheep to see th roauedof
ghlanlifdii a   idowingtreaes...afterdthis boisiterona ent cry/whnr.eaWY fest

or other conviviality was ip the course of lug the most antic and ludicrous capers
celebration.                       can well be imagined. While I coty
The first shout was enough for me. I among them it continued to be the
knew the cause of this obstreperous vorite bathing place, and during th da'
shouting, and almost overcome with joy was constantly occupied by more or les0

I could with difficulty retain my feet.
It was some moments ere I could suf-
ficiently compose myself to follow  the
crowd, as they hurried to the point, from
which the shouting still continued with
redobuled vigor, My pride was wonder-
fully increased, when, emerging from the
thicket, and entering the open grove, I
saw the fountain 'throwing up its chrystal
jets, which fell glittering in the sun's
bright rays like. a shower or diamonds;,
and reflecting a glorious -_ainbow  tat
spread its gay arch over he surrounding
throng. Them- glad: shots completely
drypned the soaring of'the waters, and
t'hr :dusky .forms contrasted strangely
ith'the'fointain mist.
-I hurried forward, threw ofd my gar-
rit , adi phinhed,°into the centre otf
thesparkling shower, where I was. in-
styntly followed by scores of the'delight
ederowd. This wassa axu y to themrbe.
fore unknown,:and. their joy seemed to
knowy no bou ds they spurted 'about a-
mong the glittering drops and spray cut-
g        ,.',        s r'c~
66  '     n'

sS              6
4

' t '1f6 FtiRe '  6  1
R, 6' , ,::  . i ,  Lu: '  6
'.46   4 ,+° 6p 6ye4,'     t  + t, 6 r 6  f 6  "6

of the frolicking youth.
It was a source of pride and satistQ
tion, to sit at our"cabin door on - i"br
moonlight evening, 'with Guvedio an4
his lovely sister by my side, gazingtahd i
the fountain as it threw up its brig1lt
pure waters, sparkling in the gentle a
very light, and listen to their words oft
praise and commendation of my ingen
ty and skill.- Whe4 rer Iwent, itffd
I1 herd, myself extolled to the utm stW
they ,much regretted that the fountain
could not have beenbuilt previous to th*
late visit of theNatenoe a ie
nishied them with all theirni   i
cle, and who were the
litk between the  and the Teti&amp;*n,
ki d, like the Duichtraderst
pire of Japan  Theyfttrnil sh the  it r w.
change for theirrskinm-fu&amp;e, W
their importations, and thie mui i hi
cotirse had been uninterr~tedt  y
years One of 'the annunatrad
panies had jast left th m  pry
my appearance:                     ,

I'
6C,,,, '  6          .  64 '.  ''
A          r.1 r'um6 1'" 6 1,4N
a  6'  fi{' 7  ji 4 t r e  f4 f  '6a  H6
1.    t_'   '4    '       ''  ' 1  t I  Gl  r fI   '   44 t~~t   Y44y(  1x
6 66,6f 4~66 666~i~$  ~f,  'Y.4aj
'A ~ ~ ~    ~    ~    ~   l '46 66  :l.A
7 '6                    '6 I6 .  l  ''. .'  33 t ,  464

I-

RAMBLES ' 1N , -CHILI

5

4
ai
'                    1
1     ,
4    'j  1  i
T
1,  t"    t           a   , F

_*

:   _ ,


J heilake of Wonseta is one of the
10% beautiful and romantic scenes in the
wrldsurrounded as it is by beautiful
mountain .landscapes 'of perpetual rich-
nessmagnificence and beauty, the bold
101310na ridges, and solitary cliffs among
)iitghe little lake has nestled, gives it
a tizOf sublimity and grandeur as im
prep$ve, as its beauty is attractive. To
egp oteits beauties and revel in its en-
ehantingloveliness was my pastime; and
indonapay with my lovely Indian maid.
en     would paddle our canoe beneath
son overhanging cliff which hung in1
sota  grandeur above the still waters
and 0"rough some shapeless breach, gaze
o the high-born torrent, as he came
1eins; from his-giddy shelf, twisting ands
sio a in the aerial flight, till he dashes
'idh deafening roar, on the whitened rocks
below, then struggling in'his hasty retreat
frt thebbiling chaldron,' rush,-with pan-
bti reath,' to the calm embraces of the
.placid lake. Again we would glide into

the quiet nooks and dells, and land in-the
deep recesses, where the light scarcely,
entered,.and tread the deep mazes' of
these caverns and grottoes of the cliffs;
with slow ahd cautions steps,; then issu.
ing forth again we would lay in our float-
ing cradle on the still glassy surface of
the lake, and gaze on the clouds, the
rocks, and the deep rich foliage reflected
on its bosom.
While out on one of these excursions,
enjoying the enchanting scenery of the
lake and the landscape, I proposed that
we should extend' our sail further and
proceed down the river where I had not
yet been. .Metina accordingly directed
our head to the outlet of the pond, and
sent the light fabric skimming over the
glassy surface. On entering the river
my eyes were enraptured with the love-
ly images which were constantly pre.
sentirg themselves, The scenery along
the river was variable and, delightful, the
,waters were, clear and transparent as

a             G'' ,i     1 , ' ,    t

glass. Along its banks the richest vege-
tation flourished in abundance, and' here
among fruits of gold, had been formed;ta
delightful path, hugging the stream in all,
its windings, gorgeously strown with ge-
raniums, whispering thyrtles, and other
flowering shrubs, along its winding ave-
nues. At points along the. river,. gentle
undulating declivities came sloping down
to the waters edge from the far off' hills
which lifted up their heads in the dis-
tance, while the mystic and dark clouds
hung like spirit shapes on their highand
frosty cones.
Sometimes a thicket of cane break,
with tangled masses of wild shrubs and
creeping plants decorated the bank, and
were vocal with the songs of birds ; the
streaming of the sunbeams on their gay
plumage, the burnished river beneath us,
and the dark belt of forest trees stands
ing out in bold relief against the illumin.I
ed sky, presented a gorgeous scenic
view scarce equalled in the world. A-
long the whole course of this delightful
stream, its banks were margined with a]
fringe of perpetual glossy verdure, and
its bright pathway, winding in a thous-
and graceful mazes, was charmed with
the  musical notes of the featheredI
songster and its own clear voice of gush-I
ing melody,
Along the sides of the gentle declivi-
ties rising before us, were the fig trees
and citrons, the luscious peach, and the
high spreading palm, with the tresselledc
vines in their richest foliage, decking the
narrow areas, the whole together exhibit- l
ingl one blended scene of rural loveliness,i
For hours we skimmed' along in si-t
lence, contemplating these solemn beau-
ties ; the birds welcomed us with strains i

I

CHAPTER XV.

of forest, mistrelsy, a,na the ht gso
-dor whided in sweeping pirqles ak
us. At spts along the lank  t}
willow branches weespreeglly
over the murmuring water,r$    gg
arched vistas withthe foliage ;of tfhQ._g
posite banks, andthe vcl ste ing gap
'with asmultitude of gold and; iyg o j
ers looked out from theiqrm,
vines and smiled a welcome, as we float.
ed slowly down their enchanting bower.
We landed some three or four miles
from the lake, at a small cabin on the
bank, where we left our canoe, and mounts
ing one horse we rode back and arrived
at the lake in season to view a perform-
ance in capturing the finny tribe, which
would have put even Isaac Walton corn
pletely in the shade. A long slim Indi-
an in the primitive dress of our first pa=
rents, was arranging his fishing inife
ments upon the bank, among a crowd"o
dusky forms; nis bait was simply a bright
stone fastened to one end of string, the
other end he held in his hand. Thua
prepared he entered the lake a little Way.:
and holding his glittering bait over thif
water, and giving it a particular motion,
with astonishing dexterity he would cater
the fish with 'his disengaged hand,'a.
they jumped towards the suspended bait.
He thus caught and threw them as ft
as he pleased, among the crowd gathif
ed upon the bank, who scrambled  Nif
up, thrusting the sharpened end ofea stl
quite through them, ant arranged thein
all round the fire which had been kin.
ed on the shore, where they soon Were
-oasted sufficiently for the table; thenll'
he group gathered about and comzrioe.
ed devouring them with the keenest i'el-
sh. I observed that they were all' M'

J      3         $         t
A }            "     r
' {.
v


tremely fond of these little fish, I eat a
fe t ile   re4palatable but I discovered
ndflithti nartkable in them, save the
m0fiwr'ia which they were captured,
'ifilihtladd the primitive mode of
co81Niffthem.
-Ereds skill displayed, by an ig.
noi'ttsonof thb forest, which any Cam-
bd Idtiat might well be proud to
inf tr1e Ii' such useful arts and sciences

sin' ©   f4Y11TT TY

consisted the young Wonseta's education
all useful occupations were alike re-
spectable. Like the present inhabitants of
California, they admitted of no aristocracy
of pursuits.; they did not conceive that the
road to respectability must necessarily
lead through the Pulpit, Hospital, or
Court room, but all trades claimed, as of
right they should, to stand on the same

a      t           ,4~~
M 444  4{1       "t
1    3  t., 1J
.444           -(
y  (               a 1(
i      :444   44
0i la lJ ' of 44    4
Q  b 41      444
CC     6
1  s  r   Sy

'0.)

41~
j 'fi4 f  r4
CHAPTER XVI
A few days after my excursion down' The echoes of our horses Iidofs bb
the river with the gentle nymph Jelina, the -solemn 'stillness of the " an ap
a grand hunt was proposed by the young awoke the birds from their quiet  -
bucks of the village and the-arrangements es as our little party galoped on ofdhxfrl
made. for carrying it out in good style, together. We saw a few d  edie*es"
The company consisted of some twenty other animals, but not a gtin Wefred
or thirty, although it was often the case until late in the afternoon *dhei&amp;Ie
that they went in larger parties.  skilled a deer for supper, whihF  #hfe-
The morning selected for our dearture pared about dusk. Having fini9ie'ddr
was as beautiful and bright as any that meal we secured our aninfils;,itde
ever dawned upon an eastern caravan, our tents and retired to rest for tli iiigit.
while wending their way through the We were in our saddles early -thcfo1bof-
wilds of Arabia, a cavalcade which my ing morning and after ridig faeW'h
fancy led me to imagine we resembled we struck upon a swift a A Mi
in miniature. Without any of the re- stream that came leaping down in '
fined and too frequent accompaniments of mountains. Travelling up
American pleasure parties of the present far into the Andes, we pitahed  .
day, such as umbrellas, hat-boxes, cloaks upon its rocky banks, bel' rii fl6
and rubbers,we mounted our noble steeds signs that we hadmade  bfu i-tte .&amp; 8.
and drew up before the door of one of tion and should find gameindb'-i a ,i  .
the old Patriarchs, who came out and After properly securing bur%  dif"
gave us his parting blessing, after which leaving a few of the cornpi~r %
we galloped across the lawn and were keepers we started id purui'ti gf .
soon buried in the forest.            The retilt oftli a'trnddi&amp;%Hs

4      4

;


RAMBLES iN CHILL                  7

five or six foxes, one vicuna, some half'
dozen chinchilas, and a few of a species of
rat whose skins are highly prized. The
Guanaco,a species of goat considered very
difficult to kill were seen in the neigh-
borhood but none were taken. Their wool
is fine and valuable, more so than any
other animals which are sought after. I
killed two of the chinchillas, which are
little animals about the size of a cat-
having fur not inferior to a martini. I
also shot a large condor. This bird pos-
sesses amazing, strength and will run or
fly with incredible swiftness. They are
three or four times larger than our eagle
with wings at least fourteen feet from
end to end. Its feathers are a dark brown
with a white collar round its neck. After
egpperi turned in, but slept badly owing
1p, the excitement of the hunt, I was
4apgeus to succeed as well as the'others,
,.nd so far I had. All night ,I was busy
lj pursuit of game full of eager anxiety.
Wj  were off in the .morning scarcely
waiting to swallow our breakfast. I had
.shot nothing during the morning but one
jQc although I had fired at and missed
,two -others.  During  my peranbala-
tions ihad gained a wild and romantic
..ft.  among the mountains; on every
ie ,ere numerous holes, caverns and
pt eplifis, Ihad been led here in pursuit
qfta olle looking Guanico which I was
ipgly anxious to take. -While
pgnt  creeping about among the rocks
,igogsre d gbjecpf my pursuit justI
be was aggig starting. for a run, his{
vdwgol looking like a sun-wilted rose.
1astily raised my gun and fired ; he'
prOg forward severely wounded in some
pastof   body. In his flight he darted
~to on pf tihe cavernous holes, that pen

etrated into the mountains; I hastily fol.
lowed in his track but-soon. lost sight of
him however in the darkness which per.
vaded the subterranean vault,but hearing
mysprize ashort distance in advance of me
as he bounded among the broken stones,
I pressed on, although with' extreme
difficulty, my head often coming in con-
tact with the low arches.
The passage soon became exceedingly
narrow and in some places so low that I
was forced to creep forward upon my
hands and knees. I crawled on in this
manner some distance, hoping every,
moment to lay my hand upon the
animal which I was pursuing, when I
heard a scraping noise and plunge not
three feet a-head of me, and before I had
time to think ot the cause, I found my-
self tumbling down a deep clasm in the
bottom of the cave, and alighted plump
upon the body of the wounded Guanico!
I dropped the gun during my descent
but found it again without much difficulty.
I was not seriously injured by the fall
but what was my consternation to find
that i was impossable to regain the top
of the sedge from which I-had fallen. I
tried in vain to clamber up the smooth
steep sides, but on every side they were
wet and slippery, and I only cut and
bruised myself in my attempt, and I threw
myself dcsponilingly on the ground ; must
I remain a prisoner in this dark and dis-
mal hole and like Othello's toad live upon
the murky vapors of a dungeon? this
question which I mentaly put to, myself
again aroused me to exertion, I groped
round in the dark and .dismal place for
I knew not how long,. hoping to find
some way of retreat, at last as the only
alternative [resolved to follow the stream

v
76                     iA.MBL S IN CHILI.

of water that run pouring along the bot-
tom of the cave, trusting it might lead
me towards daylight. With my gun in
my land I groped my way along, crawl-
ing on my hands and knees down the
oozy sdes of steep waterfalls, or sliding
over the slippery surface of the rocks
through some low arch while stretched
out at my full length, the merciless water
washing my prostrate form; and again
squeezing through numerous narrow pas-
sages that seemed at first scarcely wide
enough to admit a cat, or stumbling over
broken fragments of rocks which covered
the bed of the water course. I often felt
that my race was nearly run, expecting
momentarily to tumble over into some
deep basin, dashing my brains out upon'
the heaps of sharp stones at the bottom.
What a horrid place was this to die in,
with nought but the echoes of the rippling
waters to knell my souls exit ! what a
noisome mouldy shroud would cover my
form in this damp and dismal cavern!
I tried to whistle up my courage and
drive away these horrid thoughts but
every slip of my foot on the slimy ledge
would kindle them anew. With these
dismal thoughts I continued my sorrow-
ful course through these winding subte-
raneous corridors of the Andes.
This it is true was the dark side of the.
picture. Every situation in life it is said
has its lights and shadows, and mine I
found had its glittering points, and themes
for variety ; for had the, hollow worldly
honors of pomp and pageantry, the power
to influence my pride, I might have been
flattered with the idea that over my moul-
dering remains would stand one of the
proudest monuments in the world. That
I should have above me the topling crags

-of the lofty Qordilleras for Ty pedestal,
and the earthquake's solemn monio
chant forth my requium.
After many. dreary hours of taure
and suspense in worming myself ,hr ihih
these  low  and   damp    arche;  I
caught sight at last of a golden strea1pof
day-light. I had emerged into   gr
e opening where I could walk with eap ,
and which appeared some ten or twe e
feet in height; at the end, the lightust
gleamed through a small and narrow Ceoy-
ice. I hastened forward towards this gol-
den gleam of light as fast as the darkness
would permit, and discovered a narrow
rent in the ledge not more than two or
three inches wide. I was almost in des-
pair at my disappointment,but knowingit
was useless to despond, I began a search-
ing examination on all-sides, and son
found that near the floor the ledge was
loose and shaky, so that with but very
little trouble I enlarged the aperturesuf-
ficiently to crawl out of my dreary prison
house.  Aristomines, the hero of 'es-
sina, could not have been more pleased
at his escape from the subterraneous pas-
sage of the horrids charnel cavern of Ce.
ada, than I was at my final exit from the
bowels of the Andes.
It was quite dark when I emerged into
the open air, and after two hours travel
I saw with delight the fire of our srall
encanipment, where stood my own ltte
tent welcoming me with its 6pen portal.
I arrived faint, hungry and weary, 'at ur
welcome woodland bower. I found rny
companions all in and anxiously waidig
for me. They were much surprised0and
amused at the rehearsal of my adventnr,
and declared their determination to se~ure
my Guanico on the morrow. I eat y


RAMBLE!
stupper with as keen a relish as hunge
ever gives, and slept through the nigh
as sound and pleasant as a New Yorl
miilionare on his soft velvet couch.,
In the morning I found that my gut
needed a great deal of fixing to get i
in proper trim for duty ; it had received'
somee pretty hard thumps and bruises dur
ing its'transit 'through the earth. Witi1
the assistance of one of my companions
We managed to get it in tolerable good
order, and after trying it two or three time
at a mark, I was satisfied of its power of
doing justice, when called upon to performs
duty.              -    .
We started for the depot of the under-
ground rail-road which I had so thoroughly
explored the dy previous, and after some
ingenious contrivances succeeded in haul-
ing out my prize ; this was the firstlour
party had secured, and of course I was
j ustly proud.
During the remainder of this day we
were all much more successful than we
had before been ; we surprised a drove
of vicunas, and succeeded in capturing
several, we killed some twenty chinchil-
las, ten or twelve foxes and rats, and- a
few smaller animals whose names were
unknown to me. I clambered during the
day nearly to the summit of one of the
lofty peaks, that raised its majestic head
far into the regions of the clouds. As I
toiled up the rugged steep, I thought of
the gallant "San Martin," who led the
liberating army across this formidable
srrier-an achievement more daring and
difficult than that of the renowned "Han-
nibal" in crossing the Alps. BLdt no ob-
'stacle could intimidate the stout and
oble heart of San Martin ; he started
'With is army from the western confines

S IN CHILI

r of the "United Provinces," and in their.
t teen days he crossed the frozen'Andes, a
distance of 300 miles, with baggage and
artillery, over rugged and apparently in-
n accessible summits, through narrow de.
files where two could scarcely  w'alk
1 abreast, and along the giddy verge of
frightful precipices, icy with the eternal
frosts which here hold their undisputed
reign. Having conquered the Andes, he
encountered the royalists at Chacabuco,
and won a signal victory over the instru-
ments of tyranny, he afterwards com-
pletely overthrew and annihilated the
Spanish army, and sealed the independ.
ence of Chili on the plains of Maypu.
I soon gained an altitude above the
floating vapors of the earth. It was a
grand and marvellous sight to witness the.
clouds floating beneath me, and hiding'at
ti mes all traces of the boundless forest
and spreading out like the vast ocean as
far as the eye could reach, with the moun-
tain tops peering through the mist like
islands resting on the bosom of the un-
fathomable'deep. It required but a very
slight degree of ideality to imagine the
huge billows following each otherin rapid
succession, and breaking against the
mountain sides, sending their' whiteied
foam curling up in endless shapeseven
to their very summits, ad thence moving
offin the distance like an ariii of Ossiarls

shadowy ghosts.
I was transported with the everchang-
ing scene, and loitered away many hours,
so loth was I to quit the enchanting spot
but .the occasional report of my comrades'
guns, reminded me that II was forming
my character as a huntsman, and would
be judged ly-ny success.
Early one morning one of our party

RAMBLES IM CHILI'

r

than if he had been a bale of cotton, He
dashed again into the thick copse of will
ows, where he was immediately followed
by these brave and resolute fellows, de.
termined to dispatch him there, or drive
him forth again from his retreat; in the
latter they succeeded, and I got one more
good shot at his majesty as he appeared
in the open ground, and wounded him in
the leg, he still showed fight howevet
and we gave him another volly, increase.
ing the dose at intervals as opportunity
offered, and by thus following our woun-
ded adversary  up closely we finaly
obliged hin to give in. He was a mon-
ster, weighing I should judge from four
to five hundred pounds. Our wounded
comrade thought so little of his wound
that we could scarcely persuade him to

0

came running in with the information that in the monsters shoulder. I immediate-
alarge Jaguar, an animal but little inferior ly leveed my piece and'luckily shoi hira
to the Tiger, had attacked him, and it was through the neck, when he directly' e-
with great difficulty he had escaped the leased his hold, turned and trotted o"
jaws of the ferocious beast. These ani- Is late victim with admirable 'nerve
mals are sefdom seen so far south, con- sprang instantly to his feet, and 'gave
sequently this news was enough to put him a full charge in the rear, which great.
us all in motion, and we immediately ly accelerated his retreat. We prompt-
started off in pursuit of the stranger. Af- ly followed his blood stained trail, and
ter two hours travel we arrived in the were soon joined by our other comirads,
vicinity of his late appearance, and beat in the chase.
about among the tangled brush-wood, The sport now become truly exciting
for a long time without making any dis- fully equal to the capture of a sperm
coveries. TJpon consultaion we resolved whale. After tracking the monster for a
to separate into smaller parties and scout, short time, he was discovered in a, thick
the vicinity thoroughly. Three young growth of willows, foaming at the mouth,
men and myself took a path whichas it and showing other sign; of rage and
happenned, soon led us on the trail of the pain We made a calculation' as to his
jaguar. We followed it up through a position and fired. Three balls only
thick copse of brush-wood and tall grass, reached him and he again rushed out in
keeping our guns ready for immediate the greatest fury, when another discharge
use. The circumstances were so entire. was poured upon him, all of which ap.
ly new to me that it nay well be sup- parently had no more effect upon him

posed I held my piece with a very tena-
cious grasp.
Having observed symptoms that irdi-
cated we were quite near to our adversa-
ry's retreat, we threw ourselves into, In-
dian file for our better protection, and the
effective use of our arms, when just as
our file-leader was preparing to descend
a deep ravine, we heard a terriffic growl,
and a crackling through' the under-brush,
and before our advance-guard could re-
cover himself, the fierce animal, with
eyes that really seemed to flash fire, was
upon him, and dashing his claws ihto
the hunter's leg, threw him forcibly upon
+he ground ; fortunately one of our com-
panions nearest to them, observed the
movement's; and almost as quick as
tNought lodged the contents of his iifle

79


s0

RAMBLES IN CHILI,

hsve it bound up.
It would not be at 'all interesting to
give a detailed account of each day's
proceedings, or the number of the ani-
mals which were slain. Many of them
were unknown to me and their different
names I have long since forgotten. It
will be'suflicient to say that after break-
ing up our encampment, we mounted our
horses with our booty and started for the
shores of the Wonseta. There was a

general rejoicing upon our return, and
we were received with shouts and con-
gratulations. Then folowed the presents
from the hunters, of several little curios-
ities gathered do sing their absence each
his particuar favorite. It was many
days    re the excitement of our- return
su    d, during which time it was one
continual holiday, in which the whole
village united.

6

7

f

LI

J

CHAPTER XVII.
It was soon after our return that I wit- monies place each a hand on the head
nessed for the first time the marriage of the candidates and repeat the.mariage
ceremony, which I will attempt to des- ritual, which is responded to in certain
cribe. The bride and bridegroom  are parts by all the associates in the lige,,
each. decked out in their best "bib and The females then immediately grasp t1p
tucker," and supported by an equal num- bride and hurry her off, while the poop
ber of each sex, say ten or twelve cou. husband is expected .to secure her4 and
pie who, forming two rings, join hands, bear her off; in spite of these mischievous
and each party dance round their respec- Amazons, which is no easy ,matter, fes
tive, candidates uttering a singular and pecially if the bride joins heartily. in the,
peculiar kind of a chant, which is con- sport, and endeavors to hide fronghIer
tinted some ten minutes, they then form liege lord, which is often the cas, with
two parallel' lines, the males on one side the frolicsome faries. When the hg
and the females on the other, with the band once has fairly got hold of his .et,
Bride and groom at each extremity of ter half, the sport is ended and he bears
the files. The prelimenary preparations her in triumph to his home.
rare thus arranged by the assistants, when  I was much amused to see the ear-
the officiating justices, (an aged male nestness displayed, and strategems resort-
and female,), each approach the sep- ed to by the spectators, far- the purpose
rate parties, and leads them through of throwing obstacles in the way of the
the open file until they meet in the cen- pursuer while in chase of his frolicsome
tre of the line  Here they are placed bride. They would often manage  to
opposite each other, joining both hands exchange their dress in such a manner as
while the master and mistress of cere- to deceive the bridegrdom. On one oc-

. ,
i                                    {
i                             1
_                    t       '
~f 8
t                    j
,         r  {      jt           4
A
I
S      ' ^V


RAMBLES IN CHILI.

casion I hinted to the man to select the swer, and, if in the affirmative, matters
girl who most resembled his bride and were soon arranged and the nuptial knot
pretend to carry her off as though un, speedily tied.
conscious of his mistake.' This strategem,  The man, as a general thing, provided
produced just the result that I anticipat- himself wth a house and the necessary
ed, the bride seeing another about to furniture, previous to' his marriage, to
supplant her place, entirely, broke from which he immediately conducted his bride
her tormentors, and rushing forward at the close of the ceremonies ; except
grasped the girl by the hand endeavoring when he h td a widowed mother, or a
to release her from the arms of her hus- family of sisters, with no one but himself
band, when he immediately dropped the to provide for them; in such cases he re.
one the had at first secured, and grappled mained in the old domicil.
with the other whom he now was willing
to recognize as his newly made wife. in their construction, two or three men
Each wedding was followed by sports  thei finishone, wi rall the out
and games of various kinds, and was could easily finiture   llte  out
considered one of the great occasions for ouse  d  The garde n yar
feasting and hilarity. The marriage rites or five days.  The gves and yard
were encouraged, by precept and exam- re and   by was a  les after  it-r
pe and celibacy was unknown to them. ~ia e  a p     laig g  t th
believed with Sternes, that "a good mess the happy coupe laying ou  te
they       sed with   t     a g  . grounds, and staking out the enclosures
hart bats some object to be kod a  with skill and neatness if not scientific
the  purest' of our spirts suffer most precision; each performing their respec-
under the destitution, notwithstanding the tive parts, and completing it according to
torpid monk may seek heaven, comfort- teruidsklan        jdg   e. In
les         e" Long courtships were this man ner, and in arranging their other
alsosunpopur and    L fact were unnec- household affairs, was spent the honey
ar nar, athey were all brought up to moon, and for aught I could see to the
ether fros tnfhncy  and familiar with contrary the honey moon lasted through
gehrfomifny,'n     fmha     ilife   'Their domestic affairs coukid not be
every incident of each others lives. When life.
the maidens improves upon in the least, by the most,
th gestiori -wa popped, t' a     enlightened nations,.
were generally ready to give a direct an- enlig
v.,

i

CHAPTER XVIII.
It was now the last of June. I had'my personal appearance was any waly
been nearly two months among this pe- ;aptivating. We drank deep from Ou-
culiar people, the weather'had become pid's fountain, and were as happy astw
somewhat cold, the nights were frosty young lovers well could be. The ;ide
and the tops of the distant mountains ture of "Claude Melnott's" honey moon
were covered with a garment of snow in "the Lady of Lyons," is quite apropos
which, by the way scarcely ever shroud- with a slight variation.
ed the green valleys below.            "At noon we sat beneath the arching vasn
All day Metina and myself had been  Wondering why earth could 'e unhappy
rambling through the village, and among  Since heaven still left them youth and love,
the tall forest trees, as we were wont to  And when night came beneath the breathles
do, and when at last the clear beautiful  heavens,
d                                     We'd guess what star would beour home
day had faded into the . gentle tints of When life becomes immortal; while the 4.
twilight, we bent our steps homeward,   very light
and seated ourselves in front of the tent Stole through the midst of flowering trees,and
door, Metina had thrown a loose cover-  every air
ing over her shoulders and we began our Was heavy with the sighs of fragrant groves,
g oAnd music from sweet birds, and the mur-
evenings tete a tete. My private inter-  merings
views with this lovely maiden, were, like  Of the low fountain that gushed forth
most lover's, more interesting to ourselves In the midst of roses."
than an account would be to others ; that There are often moments when my
I charmed her ear with"Othello tales" of fancy carries me back to that bright spot
my risks and adventures, I donbt not; of earth, although years have passed by
for I was never coxcomb enough to think since I roamed through those fairy groves


RAMBLES IN CHILI.

and glided in our light canoe over the 'far to the south rose on the clear night
sparkling waters of the mountain lake, air, a wild prolonged shout, which came
,vith one, around whose bright image my echoing up in long loud strains through
memory still fondly clings with dear and the waving trees, and back again from
tender recollections. Rapidly we dane- the neighboring hills. We were instant.
ed over the tiny waves, or floated slowly ly upon our feet, and were, in a few
by each cliff and cove aid headland, moments surrounded by some eight or
watching the landscapes pictured in the ten who had been as suddenly aroused
flood, and often at eve, when darkness by the wild shout.
hung o'er lake and wood we were guid- The nature or this singular interruption,
ed on our way by the lights from the I could not discover, and my excitement
scattered cabins, which shone mysterious- was intense when I imagined I could see
ly on the dark waters. The remem- deep concern and wonder depicted upon
brance of those happy hours, are among the faces of the surrounding group, and
the most beautiful visions of the past, the whole village tumultuously gathering
and they rise at times in the magic cham- in the centre of the area, as was their
bers of the memory, fresh and sweet as habit upon every important occasion. Of
ever.                               course I followed the living tide, and soon
I sometimes almost marvel how I could perceived that the cause of this uncom-
ve been induced to leave so delighttul mon disturbance was still a mystery.
ot, and perhaps I might not, but oth- The point from whence the sound issued
e t4bigh faniiar faces would often gath -was immediately scoured in all directions.
Sin my dreams of bome. Nature, here It may have been ten minutes or a quar-
i istrue, inall its aspects heightens man's ter of an hour, when again was hdard the
e3oments,the salubrious air, thede- same wild shout, but now much nearer,
fi htful climate, render this spot a sec- clearer, and distinct than before, ara
ondPaladise. VYet alas ! all these allure- immediately I observed Metina jump up
agents could not cheat me out of the recol- and clap her-hands, making tov'ards,
debtins; of my old new England home. shouting HTarry! Harry! (a name she
"The parted bosom clings to wonted home  had ofter heard me speak.) It was a
S  g4t that's kindred cheer the welcome
MartE   -                        moment ere I could comprehend it All,
Metinaand I were seated as I have but ,soon the joyful tidings burst. upon
rderorbed, billing and cooing like two me. It was my friend Harry's approach
young loving turtles, when all at once, that was thus mysteriously announced.
t                                      _

84

CHAPTER XIX,
Knowing the directions I had left forabout us. When we were sufficiently
Harry in'case of his return to the Span- recovered to look each other in the face.
ish village, Guved iohad given directions to I was supprised to find my friend great-
-his people that, in case he should, at any ly altered, his stoutjathletic form was worn
time be discovered, they were to con- down and emaciated, his dress dishev-
duct him safely to Wonsota, The run- yelled, and his appearance in every partio.
ners' soon came in corroborating the in. ular indicated great physical suffering
formation we had just received by tele- and hardship, which must have beenses
praph, while Guvedio and others dashed vere indeed to have thus worn upon a
on to meet the advancing party. For man capable of as great endurance as I
'myself'I was almost overcome, with joy, well knew Harry posessed.
I remained transfixed to the spot, nearly Without answering my numerous ques-
in a state, of unconsciousness, and so tions, he directly commenced in a huyi-
,continued until the approach of the par- ed manner, to inform me that a company
ty recalled my wandering senses. I rush, of Chilian soldiers, dn their march to'
ed forward into Harry's arms, and my ex- Valparaiso, were now passing not thirty
cessive joy found vent in a flood of tears. miles to the westward of us, and anxious-
The-stoic, with his. ossified heart, may ly urged me to start and meet them, a.
say that we were femenine and chicken, matter which could be easily acomplished
hearted, but I contend that it is not only by diverging to the northward and head-
right, butrmanly, sometimes to weep, to ing them off. If this was to be done at
give vent to the overflowing heart.  all we must start immediately. I saw
We each wept long and loud,and but few that Harry was much, agitated, and I en-
drieyes were seen in that savage group deavored.to persuade-him to take anight's

i


86                        RAMBLES
rest and start in the morning, but the poor
fellow had suffered so much, and deliver-
ance now appearing almost within his
reach, it was irrl)oSsible to induce him to a
moment's delay;'and I must confess, as
visions of home danced rapidly through
my mind, I felt somewhat impatient. I
accordingly turned to Guvedio and asked
him for two horses and an escort to conduct
us towards the Patriot army. The hors-
es were immediately furnished, and
Guvedio agreed to join the escort, not
doubting, our intention to return again.
In two hours from the time that Harry
made his first appearance, five of us were
dashing through the woods, under a full
press of rein and spurs. We rode rapid-
ly all night, and found during the next
day we had struck the trail of the advance-
ing column. I now explained to Guve-
dio our intention, and the danger of his
proceeding any further with us. The
truth seemed to flash suddenly upon his
mind. It was an event lie had not be-
fore dreamed of, and consequently he was
but little prepared  for the' seperation.
He caught my hand ands with the most
entreating looks and words urged me to
return. 1 was greatdydistressed at the
parting scene, and wi.h difficulty extrica-
ted myself from his grasp promising to
return again by and by if I lived.
I removed my cravat. and placing it on
his neck, directed him to give it to Me-
tina. I then affectionately gave him a
parting embrace, jumped on my horse,
and dashed forward on the trail of the
moving army. I turned my head once
and saw my Indian friend, with lingering
looki still gazing after me. I stood up in
my stirrups,'lifted my hat, and swinging
it round and round, gave him my final

IN CHILI.

adieu. We now put spurs to our horses,
and drove on at a rapid rate, fully confi-
dent we should come up with the encamp.
meant before day break and so it turned
out.
We saw the camp-fires about midnight,.
and rode boldly up to the entry. We
were detained until the commander was
informed of the circumstances of our ar-
rival, when after a few words of explana-
tion we were welcomed within the lines,
and patrook of a soldier's fare.
Our story excited much wonder, and we
were looked upon with as much amaze-
ment aswe had before excited among-
less enlightened beings. During our
march to Valparaiso, we were the lions.
of the army, and our adventures, the
theme of constant discussion.
We arrived at Valparaiso, in a few
days where we were strongly urged to
join the army, on their expedition to Pe-
ru. This arrangement we declined, but
compromised the matter with them, how-
ever, by entering the Patriot Naval ser-
vice. The brig of war "Achilles," Com.
Paul Delano, was laying in the harbor,
ready for sea. We accordingly shipped
in her, and immediately repaired on
board.
Valparaiso when viewd from the an-
chorage, scarcely merits the name it
bears, (the vale of Paradise.) At the
first glance it appears dark, craggy and
fearful; broken into suceessive hills, val-
leys, and wild glens, with a small por-
tion of sand beach, scarce wide enough
for a mule path. In the back ground,
hills iise upon hills overlooking, each
other, and extending far in: the distance,
where their summits are crownedby :the
snow-capped Andes. Hero,'amnong these

U

RAMBLES IN CHILI.

.m

8/

wild cliffs, steep promentoiies and bar.
ren hills stands the city of Valparaiso, a
place, which, when once seen, will nevi
er be forgotten.  As the Rev. Waltei
Colton says. "It will stand alone- in
your after dreams, like Jacob's ladder.
like the rounds of that airy vision, its buil -
dings ascend roof over roof, till they seem
to topple in the sky."  Vie wed from the
sea its appearance is truly picturesque:
the houses grouped thickly together, ap-
parently without order on the three
principal hills, with the valley's and
spaces between, resemble several dis-
tinct towns. A turmber of neat detach-
ed houses are built on little levels arti-
ficialy formed on the sides of the hiih
fronting the harbor, while now and they
a stray white house is to be seen on some
lofty hill beyond.
The harbor scarcely deserves the name.
It is but little better than an open road-
steac\, entirely exposed on the north and
west, to the "Northers" which are often
violent, and are an admonition to all ships
to slip their cables. Many vessels have
been driven a shore, on a rock, called
"little Cape Horn."  On the south it isI
protected by a little promontory, called
'Puenta de Coro Milla,' where the shore
is steep and rocky; from hence, the bay
extends from E to W in the form of at
gently curved crescent. Fort San Anton-
ia is on the south inlet of the bay, andI
"Castello del Resario," mounting six guns
stands in the north part of the town.
Immediately in front of the bay, and one
fourth of a mile on the east and west, ist
the principal commercial city of business
and fashion. Back and westward of this
are three large groups of houses scattered
on the three hills, called by the sailors,

0

#   -

the "Fore, Main and Mizen-tops:"' About
half a mile eastward on the lowland, is1
the 'A lmendra'-Almond grove=where
the houses extend perhaps a mile or
more; they are built like the others, prin_
cipally of reeds, some are constructed of
abedos. The Custom House - however is
a beautiful and spacious building,, and
from its situation on the mole where the,
stranger first lands, is an object which
attracts the attention of all who arrive
at Valparaiso. Quite near the Custora
House is another fine building called the
Exchange.
There is a peculiar inconsistency con
nected with the interior of the dwellings
which cannot fail to strike an American
with sur rise. The plainest looking c t*
tages which gleam from the topling cliffs;
are provided with the most costly, and
aristocratic furniture. The piano, the
'harp and guitar are heard in almost every
house.. They appear   singularly  out.
of place in these savage abodes. The
most elegant articles of ornament are al-
so found in their fancy shops, and the
ladies are decked out with large ribh tor-
toise shells combs, wrought into various
figures.,
The Elective franchise in Chili is the
same as in America. No property quali-
fication is required, all go to the ballot
box, yet a majority of them can scarcely
be called independent voters, influenced
and overawed as they are, by the priests
and land-holders, by the priests at the
confessional, and by the landlords with
their (rentals,) for the innequality of the
feudal system still survives as originated
from Old Spain. The lands are owned
by the privileged few, and their succession
secured by theriight of entail.


1 AMBLIIS 1N CuILT.

$olorig as this law of primogeniture ex- mony due to their rank. They visitg4
its bChili will be far behind the age of every part of the vessel, and atddressc
Republicahism: for freedom and equality the crew, three quarters of whom were
are scions of the same stock, they flourish Americans and English in our own Jan.
in the same soil, and yield their fruit in guage. About five, they took their leave
the same season ; they are t win sisters and as they went over the side all haid
and share the same destiny. On the were called to get underweigh, with light
soil where equality cannot flourish, free- hearts we loosed our sails, weighed ,an
don will soon wither and die.     chor and at six P.M. were standing out to
The day of our departure we were sea for an offing, bound on a cruise to the
visited by Gen. Prieto, the President ac- reward.
tompanied by Don Diego Portales, his Thus dear reader,ends my ramblesin Chi
minister of the interior, the same indi- ii, and if they have afforded you as much
idvual who was traitorously assassinated entertainment, as they have others who
by Florine and Col. Vidaurre, at the have occasionally listened to 'my yarns.
commencement of the civil war, a few [ shall be satisfied; however much I iav
months afternfards.  We manned the regret the faults that undoubtedly rfay
yards and received them with the cere- be found in the hastily written narrative.


  
             
         
       
   
