
    ----CITATION----
        Robinson, J. H. (John Hovey) (b. 1825). Alethe; or, The Child of the Cord .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC7607
    ----FULL TEXT----
         
      
         
            Alethe; or, The child of the cord 
            
               I-

1l

V


r                 4
KA:
2    _': - '

Y

Ik

'r
a
.                      '!
_
(  x
'
i
T
i
' J
_
_                  sf ,
P   s
n
+' k '

BY DR. J. H. ROBINSON,
AUTEOR OF " BUCK BISON", " NICK WHIFFLES", " CATOLINA", "GOOD-FOB-NOTHING
DICK", "PATHAWAY", ETC., ETC., ETC.

NEW YORK:
FREDERIC A. BRAbY, PUBLISHER
No. 22 ANN STREET.

::'

ALETHE;
THE CHILD OF THE CORD.

JST -..+-5 'T    K   --.4.".N wYM  '.. A.+ .AY{r tditi.a:aj{  i Y"ZiNrJ7M             .w

4 1%
tit

'.
,.
'      ,                                  L
'          -

, .  ..,  _.
-  ,5-


a      Ia

lNERznD according to Act of Congress, in the year 1864,
BY CAULDwELL &amp; WHITNEY,
In the Clera's Office of the District Court for the Southern District of New York.
CRASKE &amp; CO.,
e    ER TYPE    as,

1 XF
,,.
rtC i -
" t
t ~
i'
s ;: r'
f '       '
f
Y
t,
+F
)
Y           l
i
S
r     S
Ji

N

141
!t           i

CHAPTER I.
THE SILENT DEATE.
The day had been sultry; but as it neared
its close, soft and grateful zephyrs breathed
balmily through the luxuriant Indian scenery.
Earth and air seemed dreaming together.
The murmurs of leaves were whispered
thoughts, and the ripplings of running waters
half revived memories of the past. The nod-
ding flowers fainted and languished in their
own perfumes ; the long grass drooped
dreamily in the voluptuous atmosphere. The
birds ceased to , sing, soothed :and content
with the mere pleasure of mute existence.
Even the deadly serpent lay harmless in its
coil, robbed for a time of its malice by the
all-conquering sweetness of the most delicious
climate in the world.
At this pleasing hour, when Nature herself
sympathized with her creations, pulsing her
own mysterious life into all animate things, a
maiden, more beautiful than graceful palm
or bending acacia, moved slowly from the
trellised veranda of a . bamboo cottage to
the sheltering canopy of a patriarchal ban-
yan tree, beneath whose spreading arms she
seated herself, on the folds of an Indian
shawl.
She was a young English girl, of eighteen
years, with an exquisite form, and a face .to
love at first sight. Her skin was whiter than
the transparent muslin she wore, or the large
pearls that encircled her neck and arms and
hung in silvery lobps from her dark hair,
after the fashion of the nativess. -Her teeth,
seen through her crimson lips, were like
drifted snow. Her eyes were large, her face
oval and faultless in every feature.
Her expression, as she reclined in the
shade of the banyan, was serene and thought-
ful. She had brought with her al book, but
the falling twilight blurred the pages ; and

she put it aside, and abandoned herself to
the gentle influences of the hour.
What the English beauty thought of, who
may tell? Who shall guess the fancies that
floated through her pretty head? Perhaps
her consciousness was of earth ; possibly of a
celestial region in the clouds.- Whatever
were her reflections, it is certain that she
presented a most pleasing picture to the eye,
which well might be pardoned for returning
again and again to the delightful contempla-
tion.
Sometimes her eyes rested pensively upon
the foliage at her feet ; sometimes they wan-
dered dreamily upward through the thick
branches of the trees-to fleecy little islands
in the clouds; and sometimes the long, silk-
en lashes closed languidly, shutting out'
everything but the flowing shapes and images
in her own brain.
.On her right was the bamboo cottage, peep-
ine from a mass of foliage, scented with the
odor' of the Indian rose, and relieved. by the
flowing leaves of the scarlet sagittaria; while
at her left the tamarind, palm, and the ban
yan, growing in serried columns, stretched
downto the banks of the Jumna River-form-
ing long and shady avenues, not only pictur-
esque to the sight, but most grateful in the
tropical heats.
In one of these natural arcades, a nearly
naked figure had been lying for the last hour.
This half-nude body pertaied to and com-
prised the personality of one of those' no-
madic natives of India, whose lives, habits,
religion, and manner of qubsistende, are alike
a terror and a mystery.
While he lay nestled in the long grass, he
occasionally lifted himself upon his knees
and looked toward -the bamboo cottage with
an earnestness that evinced no ordinary pur-
pose.
- In critically observing his swarthy face,

ALETHE:
OR,

vw rr

'tr'H .
Y .
i
xi
%^
a, ,
4
l7
tK
F
V
}j}
l
Ri
y  i
1
4
f
t
w #
rv r


ALETRE.; OR, THE CHILD OF THE CORD.

uosixere--.it had fa'J - ns Delt ; it
notgt thesruggle;adllen from his person
i the struggle and he now perceived,
the native held it in. his
e officer glanced at the beautiful
a troubled countenance  eu girl
g orbs glittered triumph TheThug's
ave usl! You are not safey. said the
man, in a low and wafe,"    vice
s armed i"          warning voice.
ar not i" said the -h
the servant of the Cudg, disdainfully.
Ileave undoneI ;al     at it will
.el~n -"ea"lttwith fire
Young EnlishWoman remained rivet.
his sles.£ere was a fearful fascina-
p                    artlesheeth remindedeher-  tlshand
'fghouls and vampyres.tae she had

4

.5~ "i  .if  7. Pr   .~n'               f   1L4..^     , h   i".  7.. .a~  -4L  '  .-.1,+w,

ALETHE; OR, THE CHILD OF THE CORD.5
"Begone, wretch 1" cried the officer, in a 'silence.  Obtaining, presently, a view of the
tone of loathing and indignation.      young man's face, he' addressed him with
"I go," answered the Thug, " at no man's much warmth.
bidding!"    "Lieutenant Kavanagh, I am delighted to
"Why have you sought my life?" asked see you! How goes the rebellion? What
the lady, overcoming her natural repugnance news from the army ?  What brings you
to addressing one whose purpose was so direful. here ? How came you tote-a-tete with my
" I make no choice !" replied the Thug, a ward?  Know her, I s'pose ?  Ida Macgre-
smile like dark lightning flitting over his gor I Fine piece of womanhood ! Like an
malevolent mouth.  "I am the Child of the old fool, I'm fond of her. Love her about'as
Cord, and the slave of the Silent Death."  well as I do Melicent. Why don't you speak,
The lady shuddered.                   Sir? What the deucedo you mean, Sir?
" I am one of the appointed destroyers of Can't you do anything but stare at the girl ?
mankind," he added, in a voice noticeably She isn't to eat nor to drink, Sir !"
clear and resonant. " I glide here and there,  "Major Rainbold," answered the young
with the soft step of the prowling panther. officer, blushing, "you overwhelm me with
Like an arrow, I go where I am sped." questions, any or all of which I would will-
"Go, then," said the young man, " and pol- mgly answer, if proposed one at a time. If
lute this place no longer with your presence." this lady be your ward, I assure you it was
" Call not down on your head the curse of quite unknown to me ; having found her
the Stranglers 1" returned the Thug, menac- under circumstances that admitted of none
ingly.                                  of the formalities of etiquette."
"Where dwell the Stranglers ?" inquired " Formalities, Sir! Blast me !" he laid his
the officer.                            hand on the hilt of his sword, "I'll have all
"In every part of India. They wait at the formalities at my bungalow that were
your tables ; they sit at your feet. They ever thought of !"
build-mud cottages; ,they till the ground ;  Turning his regards upon Ida Macgregor,
they deal in merchandise ; they do all things he observed her extreme pallidness.
that others dlo. Sit down in your bungalow ;  "What has occurred ?" he added, instantly,
walk among the trees ; smoke your pipe be- with changed manner. "Bad news from
neath the shade of the palm; repose on your Cawnpoor ? Sepoys coming ?"
couch at noonday ; yet the Cord and the  "First," replied the officer, "introduce me
Silent Death are ever near. Where dwells to your ward."
the Strangler ? Here, there, everywhere I In  " Certainly ! Miss Macgregor ; permit me
the bamboo cottage ; in the mud hut ; in the to present to you one of my army-friends,
great houses of the English, and in the tents Lieutenant Neal Kavanagh, as brave a young
of the wandering Parsee."              fellow as ever mounted a breach."
The Thug paused, glanced at the two be- " My dear guardian," said Miss Macgregor,
fore him, enjoying both their surprise and " he has already proved his courage. I am
horror. Advancing, he recovered the cord, indebted to his friendly arm for what life is
which he coiled around him as before, being left in me."
careful the while to keep the pistol turned  "There seems enough of it left to make
toward the officer..-                   your cheeks red, girl., Oh, you're both doing
"We shall meet again," he, added, slowly it !" said the Major, remarking that their
moving to the avenue of trees ; then pointing faces were suffused.
the pistol upward, discharged all un barrels "I have had a visit," said Miss Macgregor,
rapidly. Casting the empty weapon upon with a shudder, "from one of those exe-
the ground, the native darted into the jungle crable creatures called ' Thugs' or ' Strai-
and disappeared.                        glers'."
Major Rainbold's ruby countenance grew
CHAPTER II                 a shade less glowing. He   instinctively
looked at the young woman's neck, to see if
BARNABAs HUTTON.             the mark of a cord were on it.
While the fair young Englishwoman and   " His dreadful purpose was thwarted at the
the officer stood looking at the place where last moment by the timely interposition of
the Strangler had disappeared,- a military, your friend," she added.
middle-aged gentleman issued from the cot- "I hope," cried the Major, grasping Kav-
tage, and approached them.   He had a anagh's hand and shaking it cordially, "that
rotund body, a rosy face, and twinkling, you shot the wretch ?"
good-natured eyes.                       " Unfortunately, I had not the opportu-
He reached the parties without being seen nity. He escaped," answered Kavanagh.
by them. He stood a few seconds without "It is greatly to be regrettedI I should
speaking, quite at a loss to account for their -like to have the hanging o# this-terrible sect.

,1

a
z
f -
,
1
'Y


r

N'

7      7

'~\

/+

ALETEE; OR, THE CHILD OF THE CORD.
qBuwhich, eitisaid, fests -the entire country. bas Hutton, an enterprising gentleman from
BT h orosh rebellionhv "             the United States of pAmeri ca. tMaor Rain-
hise   ao gallantly proffered his arm to bold and Miss Mac gre or." M
hsward, who looked faint, and needful of  "How do you do, Mr. Hutton ?" saidth
support.                                 Major, cordially, endeavorin  to reach hg
he rebellion," replied the Lieutenant, enough tograp the hand heedutto  shi  h
"goes badly enough. The country is thor- thenew comer.             out to him by
roughly aroused. But few Sepoys remain I'm pluribus unum, thank ye! Never
faithful to us ; and, I say it with" sorrow, mind shaken';" shake are  i o NeHow
there is no place of safety for English resi- d;yakaeraroHope you'r p
dnsiIna.My visit here, is partly for bus unum, too?p
the purpose of giving yo1 timely warning,  Before Barnabas Hutton ali
and partly on account ofaslight wound whih c take a hurried  survey of  rights nw il
I received two days ago, in an engagement phant. He was dressd n high and iryle
near Cawnpoor. If you know of any place garbn of    a   ressd wthe light and air
of security, it is your duty, Major Rainbold to and hands, o ve, and, with his tanned face
seek it without delay. The most horrible A merica.looHedhadaek a pleasant, though t htanotn
barbarities are being daily practiced. Wom- ib megcouneaora   s   oth anda
endsm and children excite no pity in the hearts noswere large,hisenaceek-bonsmrathraigh
of these monsters. Revolting cruelties are and his face, nough thinswa not reall
hourly perpetrated,"                     sharpsave in its expresin.  ii was tral
Ida trembled on her guardian's arm,   ng and oa           ression.On  is haed has
"Thse  redfu  taeshave too  often wore a military cap, with a pompon in
reached me, even in this seclusion. I wish I it. He had a short and tt pepoin
could buckle on my sword, and hasten to the givingone the imo  and scattering beard,
aid of our gallant countrymen ; but my been lighted bly f~n ht h rost.         a
wounds are not yet healed, and that is not  Barnabas Hutton was armed    ec h
the worst of it ; I, cannot leave my girls un- tladaHageen    i bladpswor
protected. Heaven. knows," added the Ma- git a d     loiss     , and a      sword
jor, with emotion, "where I shall find a place his hand.h oins, and along native lance in
to hide them from the fury of these raging  The e  h    w   n
demon    e seen," said Kavanagh, in a sup  war s  lphant was no e ss an objec   fo -
pressed voice, the wives and daughters of our mentufcient to makeit noticeable ; not to
gallant officers hacked to pieces in the     h    e  fancypain    that appeared on
streets, as if they were of no more considera-  The American slipped down from th
tion than beasts of prey. Neither youth, animal, and-a seeing that the Major teat
beauty, nor innocence have power to soften templating it with much interest, ieatcon-
the hearts of the Rebels. . The mutinous ly became eloquent in its erraise.
Sepoys are the most cruel of all."           H ae  elowin a    is pre
While they were conversing, they walked with prde. uknwn' as he is large," he said,
slowly around the open area, in the centre of without findin' his mate. travel er i
which stood the   patriarcha banyan-tree. huselahcaled Meuslah onnace os
Major Eainbold was pondering on what he hsaeoH   e lieusmeahlssnaor w un- o
had heard, when he descried a man, mounted dred year. Bought that  lepn wohun-
on an enormous elephant, approaching from first 'come to this country. oun't wpart
one of the long and shady avenues running  ihhmfrhi       egti      ouldHe'sarw
to the river, and immediately called attention erfuil c o s eg t itrn gaod ing." ow
to the-same.                              "«pA  magomentaimal 1" ordn the
t" Be not alarmed," said Kavanagh. "This Major.mgnifteent animal
is an eccentric friend of mine--an American  "A portable gallery
-with whose oddities I am sure you will be Got all the gods and  ddeses of thine csutoo-
entertained. I had quite 'forgotten him, hay- painted on his starboard anid lfrboarouatry
ing left him a short distance back, to search tes,othe 'Mericanfagonhis back,  the  rit
for your residence on foot. Growing impa- ish lion andunicorn onhhis hac dtheia a
tient at my long absence, he has followed, fine effect onrthenative critters  this  Has a
doubtless, at a venture. His styleof tray- has. Think I' a great  rs, t  p   on
nhe is !"                             regardto expense, and travelin' on my own
The man on the elephant now advanced to do for cthe sa no more for rebellions than I
the banyan-tree ; and IKavanagh,stepping for- that I see tumblin' about the mud-huts.
wa  ow  e to introduce to you Mr. Barna- I  wonder how you can travel in times
like these, said Miss Macgregor.

ALETHE ; OR, THE CHILD OF THE CORD.                          7
"Well, I ave kept sort of close since the teeth in a way 'I don't care to see several
ditikilities with the Seboys broke out about times."
the greasedcartridges and things.,You see  "It was the same 1"saidKavanagh.
lef mynaiveshresto etup business 6of "If I'd a knowed it I'd put Methuselah on
left my native shores  trade,  eckerlate to him quicker'n a comet could switch its
makemne     nd    al        a live Beum  tail! Perhaps you don' know that thisgeat
or uen- kid f ale which I under- lump of flesh is nigh about human, andu-.
stand is plenty i these parts" ,saidid  derstands every word I say to-himI? Hedoes.
I"I heartily wish you sucess,"1 said Ida, Yes !"
I      eilin al                            "Is he docile ?" asked Miss Macgregor,
"mBlied to ye, Ma'am, but I've 'bout give highly amused by the quaintness of Hutton.
up the idea of 'takin' up with a Begum. The  "Do-cile. Hecouldn't be do-oiler?" Then
tuth is, I've got my dander up! I'm goin' turning to the elephant: "Methuselah, give
to jine the Englishers, and with this same me a boost!'
sword, cut, hack, slash, gash, slay, and put  The colossal creature gently coiled his
to :fligtte   alihymaSeosho trunk around the Yankee, and, lifting him
make no more of killin' a woman nor they do steadily, 'placed him on the top of his head.
oean' biled, rice. They'don't. No !"   " If I should say the word, he'd  set you all
"Your resolution is a good one," said the up here in a twinklin'. If's to tell him to
Major, "and I have no doubt but you and throw you over that bungalow, or trampIef
Methsela  wil acuit yourselves credit- you under his feet, he'd do it cheerful. I
M thusehsquityoto order him to pull up the trees, tear your
ablyWell, I reckon we shall cut our bigness house to bits, and play the deuce generally,
into em'; and that won't be a hole much hed do it whIm."
smle     o    orsoybnaowt veranda all round. When Methuselah and  " Yes."
I come down on the treacherous critters,   " He must be a great comfort to you !" said
they'll think that a heathen temple on wheels the Major, dryly.
is arterm                                  "A comfort about the size of Juggernot,
"This young lady," said Neal Kavanagh, replied Barnabas, practically. "It's true, I
"has just escaped a most imminent danger. can't take him within doors, but there's plen-
She has been in peril from one of those Phan- ty o',room for him outside. He loves me,
cigars or Stranglers, of whom we were re- this mass of flesh does. I'm his fiend, com-
cently talking. I had the happiness to reach panion, and providence. I can sl p o' nights
this spot before the fatal cord had done its atween his great feet in safety. Put me down,
work."                                   Methuselah, and show 'em what you'd do if I
"Bullets and bungalows !" exclaimed Bar- should be tackled."
nabas. "I'd like to have Methuselah wind  The man spoke in, his usual tone of voice,
his trunk about twice round that critter's but the sagacious animal seemed to under-
neck, and give it the giniwine corkscrewr stand his meaning at once. He reached up
twist! What such a low, mean, sneakin' his suppleand potent arm, coiled it again
article o' human natur was set a runnin' about his master, and set him carefully be-
for, is more'n I know. Weren't you peskily tween his feet ; then, emitting a peculiar
scared, Miss Griggory ?" . *       .     whistle, and -assuming a menacing .attitude,
Idaconfessed that she was much-terrifed. ut the air to the right and left with terrible
"You couldn't helped it more'n. nothin' ! strokes of his trunk.
A cord, you see, isn't jest the ,right kind of a Miss'° Macgregor retreated in alarm, and
thing to put round a gals neck; leastways, I even the brave tainbold was not ashamed to
didn't use to think so when I went sparking' fall back a few paces.
in the United States of Ameriky, which     " Don't be skittish, Miss ;:he never hurts
is a thunderin' long ways from here at the gals,  e don't . No; he's gentle as a lamb or
present speakin' ; and how I'm to get home fierce as a lion, as I will him to be.' He
with this dodrotted great pile of elephant, the knows his master, and that's more'n some
Lord he only knows. But to return to the h 'an critters does.
tet, aoth missionaries say, what come of By this time some of Major Rainbold's col-
the throttlin' cuss 4"                   ored servants appeared ; and Hutton, refusing
"He effected his escape into the jungle," re- to part with his favorite till he Was properly
plied Kavanagh.                          taken care of, went away with them,  owe
" Shouldn't wonder if I see the critter as I by his dRanb dnd his ward returned
rid, up through the trees., I met a swarthy MaoRinodndhswrreundt
half-naked chap, with a white rag round his the house, accompanied by Kavanagh, each
head. He glared at me malicious, and showed musing on the singular character of the
the whites of his eyes and the ivory of his American, as well as of that thrilling adven-

'I

,.Y

K  tv :il,).v.:""' ,3 t

_                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      -    3,


8                ALETHE; OR, THE CHILD OF THE CORD.
ture which had preceded his coning, and and Ida Macgregor is fair! What a good
which Ida Macgregor did not now desire to thing logic is it
hear mentioned.                           Miss Rainbold tossed her head, and smiled
The young man walked by her side in a in her own lofty manner.
pleasing dream, alike vague and undefinable.  Melicent Rainbold was al brunette beauty.
A soft influence was upon him, flowing from Instead of being white as a pearl, she was of
the presence and person of Ida Macgregor. that mellow dark so captivating to the eye.
He eared to speak, lest the sound of his She was like old wine, rich and rosy, with
voice should dissolve'the spell, and interrupt the true flavor of Mother Eve.
the bewildering current of his thoughts. He  Ida Macgregor was the nectar of the gods,
was far from comprehending that sweet mag- sweet and ineffable, with the aroma of love
netism that was upon him. For .the first lingering about it. Both were perfect in
time in his life, woman assumed, in his esti- their styles ; but their styles were not alike.
mation, the graces and Characteristics of a One was habitually ,imperious ; the other
superior being. When he reflected that it naturally dignified,- and lofty only in mo-
had been his fortune to snatch her from dead- ments of excitement.
ly peril, his heart swelled with grateful emo-  "Your logic," said Ida, good-humoredly, 
tion. He was almost ready to bless the inci- "is like your raillery-of . little account.
dent that offered him the privilege .of doing But, to return to the subject, I do believe this
her an important service. Not only the pres- Neal Kavanagh has physical courage."
tige of the lady charmed him, but her beauty,  "Ida," replied Melicent, somewhat piqued ;  2
flashing suddenly upon him like a sun, near  " I care not a straw for physical courage I
blinded him with its dazzling brilliancy. He Dogs have courage, haven't they? The re-
moved beside her as one might enter a new volted Sepoys fight, don't they, and die? I
world.  The modest bungalow became a 'want to know what description of face he
fairy bower, and all its surroundings were has. But I lose time in asking you. Alethe !"
transformed by the new and strange enchant- She turned abruptly to a native girl, who was
mont that possessed him. '.seated on a cushion at her feet;- "you saw.
this hero after he entered the house. Tell
CHAPTER     III.            me immediately what he is like."
OLD wmE,. NECTAR, AND A DREAM.        The girl turned upon her mistress a face
Neal Kavanagh did not see Melicent Rain- such as one may not often find, even in India
bold on the night of his arrival, but that Her eyes were so large and melting, her           o
young lady was informed by Ida Macgregor mouth so exquisite, her teeth so incompara-
of the startling-circumstance that had trans- ble, her forehead so perfectly molded, her
pired. The curiosity of-Melicent was excited. hair so rich and luxurious, her shoulders so
She was anxious to meet'the hero of the ad- round, her neck so arched, her limbs so per.-~
venture, and rallied her friend not a little on fect, that it was a pleasure to look at her. If
his appearance at the right moment. He Ida were nectar, and Melicent old wine,
might hake come- a minute. too soon, or a Alethe was an intoxicating dream.  She
minute too late; in either of which events seemed a creature floating in a sea of tender-
the golden opportunity would have been ness, drifted to and fro by soft and caressing
lost, the romance destroyed, and Love left to billows of passion.
awaken at his leisure. It was in this manner  " Did you speak, my mistress ?"
that she presented the case to Ida.       She soe in the liquid tones that love it-
" What does this rescuerof maidens look self might choose for utterance.
like?" she asked, after a free exercise of her  "Who but I should speak! What was he
wit. He was a plain awkward youth the last like, houri?"
time I saw him."                          Both the ladies looked at Alethe. Perhaps
"Indeed, Melicent, I scarcely know -how each secretly asked if she were as fair.
he looks," answered Ida, gravely; "I should  " As graceful as the bamboo, as straight as
think, however, that he is a straight, military- the palm, with an eye like a tiger's," answered  4
poking young gentleman, with considerable Alethe.
physical courage."                        ".There !" said Melicent, laughing. "That
" Bai who cares for physical courage ! is more like a description. But it is not
You may as well tell me that he has a good enough. Go on, dreamer."
appetite," retorted Miss Rainbold, disdain-  "His countenance is regular and firm ; his
Sfully.                               'eyebrows dark as the hair of a negress ; his
"FPhysical courage," said Ida, with warmth, lips red and human ; a dimple in his chin-"
is a magnificent thing! 'Let me know that  "In Heaven's name, leave out the dimple !"
a man is a coward, and I care to know no interposed Melident, impatiently.
more of him."                             "A soft suffusion of the cheeks," resumed
"The brave deserve the fair. He is brave,- Alethe.

e
uy,  i
l
r        11
y
rr_ .
/f
..... ^r-';'
.
J_
-- - "
..          C/ "


4~

ALETHE; OR, THE CHILD OF THE CORD.
"Pshaw?! That is for a woman," interrupt-  " When my mistress bids me," answered
Melicent.                            Alethe, meekly.
"What is good for a woman is good for a  "Ida, we gain nothing'from this girl. She
an, especially about the face, which may be makes a most dangerous trinity. She should
autiful without any reproach to his man- be sent away, or disfigured by disease. There
od."                                 is, you know, one glory of the sun, one glory
"Beautiful is the wrong word, you foolish of the moon, and another glory of the stars.
ild ! It may do for a melting thing like Some like one glory, others another. And
J ou; but not for an Englishwoman. Give yet," added Miss Rainbold, with a haughty
e another turn. Choose your words better." curl of the lips, " we are Englishwomen t is
Miss Rainbold, despite her assumed indiffer- it not enough to be an Englishwoman ?" She
ce, was in reality far more interested than paused. "I will tell you what we will do,
Alethe had employed words usually appli- Miss Macgregor. We will test the shrewdness
to masculine attractiveness,          and gallantry of this Neal Kavanagh. To-
The maid knew the mistress.           morrow morning, after breakfast, we will
"We have reached his cheeks,",added Ale- saunter from the bungalow, without word or
e. "Well, they are not much darker than sign, or intimation, and stroll with all our
ours. I think his forehead is whiter than careless graces down the avenue of palms, tow-
ours."               -                 ard the river, and see if he, will know
"Ida, bring me a rod! This girl needs enoughtofollow. This melting creature shall
hastisement."                          go with us, to carry our fans and our shawls,
" Whiter than yours, my mistress," continu- and our books, perchance, and above all---"
d Alethe.  "When he smiles, you forget   Melicent laid a white finger on Ida's arm:
hat he has another expression. When he   " To look out for Thugs, and note the high
rowns, you forget that he has smiled. When bearing of unexpected heroes."
e sighs, you would think that Love had come,  " Or, possibly,' retorted Ida, with a quiet
and that he was dissolving in its delicious raising of the eyebrows, "thecoming of Ray-
pain."                                  nor Bracegirdle ; the young gentleman des-
"Will you stop !" exclaimed Melicent, tined alike to fill your dreams and your
stamping her foot, and blushing. -     heart."
. "When his features are in repose, you  "Miss Macgregor, you are becoming odious !
would imagine that quietude had assumed, You had better retire to your own apartment.
personality. When he is pensive, you would This room is now too large for Alethe and
swear that sweet Sadness had come."    me. Good night!"
Alethe rolled her voluptuous eyes uponher . Melicent kissed her hand to Ida, and sur-
mistress. The Dream and the Old Wine rendered herself to the gentle hands of Ale.
seemed to affect each other.            the.
" You forget the difference between Indian
and English blood," said Melicent, contemp-         CHAPTER     IV.
tuously.                                 'THE TIGER.
"All blood is the same blood; it is com-  Miss Rainbold and Miss Macgregor, attend-
posed of the same elements. Woman differs ed by Alethe, repaired to the jungle, as had
not from woman; but her manifestation is been previously arranged by the former
not the same."                          somewhat fanciful young lady.
"Stop, parrots; I will not be taught by a Warned by the incident of the evening be-
reamy girl. You are a fool ,"          fore, Hafiz, a native youth of fifteen, was in-
"Yes, my mistress; all maidens are fools; structed by Melicent to keep within sight
hey were born to be fools. She who is not a and call, and advise them of the approach of
ool, is not what she was born to be."  '  an one not pertaining to the family.
Alethe sighed, and looked at her own small  Walking beneath a.canopy of foliage, the
"     ret.                           conversation turned upon Kavanagh, and the
MissMacgregor, why don't you say some- American and his elephant ; while Alethe
,hing ? Is this tawny creature wise or other- followed silently.
wise ?"                                   Ida, it was observable, was not inclined to
Ida looked at Alethe, then placidly shutting discourse freely of the Lieutenant, although
her eyes, answered:                     ,he was the very subject from which Melicent
"The girl is wiser than you or I. You call expected to derive entertainment. The latter
her your slave ; but much I doubt if she has declared that he was not so handsome as she
not a wider empire than you or your father's had been led to believe by the unreliable and
ward.t    s t                           provoking Alethe. In short, she intimated
" That has the flavor of truth, which is a that she was disappointed in his appearance ;
miserable thing. Alethe, poison yourself and were it not, for the danger that continu-
within a few days !"                    ally menaced them from the Rebels, his pres-

~ -  ".t: *   ,   '  * .  ^   i     t T

t

,                           , _.
t
r
+
1   w


I
Ij
-It

12                ALETHE; OR, THE CHILD OF THE CORD.
ence would not be very desirable. That she Ida, until her person found support upon he,
iusinuated more than she meant, the guiet bosom.u                        p
manner of Miss Macgregor sufficiently indi-  Alethe, who had first discovered the glos5'
cated   haired courge of India, was slowly recover
eam too indolent to walk further, said ing her self-possession. Her chest swelled
Teet Ale   readd the shaws." .  and her form trembled like one suddenly r
The shawls were placd, the young ladies suscitated from death.
became seated beneath a palm-tree, and the  "Do not move,i' she whispered. "Keel
girl, reclining gracefully before them, moved- your eyes fixed on the eyes of the tigers
the air lazily with a large in of peacock's Catch his gaze, and you can hold him their
feathers. For a time they abandoned them- if you are firm."
selves to the drowsy influence of the fragrant "I have not nerve enough !" gasped Id
tropical atmosphere.                     "Melicent ! Melicent ! You are strong an
"eKeep your large eyes open, sighed imperious ; meet this royal beast with yo
Melicent, playfully,, "for Stranglesadrylgz.
young English officers."       lers and royal gaze."
  g"    cers:..      .           Melicent's  head  moved  with  a  negative
Iiueg of you, my friend, not to jest on that motion, butcher blanched lips were mute.
hshc    object. The face of that assassin  "He stirs I he stirs!" murmured Alethe
has haunted my sleep," said Ida, shivering at warningly.
the fearful remembrance.                   "The dreadful beast looks at you. 'I cannot
If it really pains you, I will desist," re- seize upon his eyes," said Ida, faintly.
plied Melicent   A with more seriousness.-) .  "Speak not! I have him! I will hold him!
At that moment' Alethe laiddown the fan. back till help come," whispered Alethe.
"Languishing creature," said her mistress,  Ida looked at the girl, then at the tiger
peulnty"your mere existence makes you An expression ,of curiosity seemed to rest ou
happy. I.cannot bear people who are made the brow of the lordly creature, he saw some
happy bysimply living.',                thing in the melting eyes of Alethe that ex
"What is the matter . asked Ida, looking ercised .a strong influence on his fierce nature
at Alethe, whose countenance had suddenly He was fascinated, awed.- Alethe- held his
changed      a                         in magnetic chains that his great limbs could
Melicent, partially aroused from her lan- not rend asunder. He ceased to lash the
guorsbythis question, glanced at the girl, ground with his tail, which now lay upon thi
whose cheeks were now pale, whose lips grass, as if its proud owner was in doubt
were parted, and whose eyes were glassed whether to display fear, anger, or uncertain.
with fear. Alethe did not speak. She kept ty.
her dilated eyes fixed on; a certain point,  Ida beheld this mute conflict of eyes with
which was in a direction directly behind her trembling suspense, not daring to move a
mistress, and on an angle that carried the limb or utter a sound ; either might break the
focus some twenty yards distant.        spell.
Melicent and Ida followed the suggestive  As for Melicent, she scarcely breathed ; yet.
gaze of the girl, and beheld an object calcu- saw, sensed, heard everything. The nearness
late to inspire the wildest feeling of terror. and imminency of the peril had paralyzed
'A superb tiger was crouched on the ground, her.
at the distance we have mentioned, gently  " How long is this to continue';" Ida men-
beating the rank grass with his tail. His tally queried. " How long before the mighty
mouth was partially open, displaying a por- animal will shake off the shackles of the
tion of his red tongue and sweltering lips. human will, and tear us ?"
Although he was looking at thedgroup, his  She glanced toward the bungalow for hope
mood was quiet, and his eyes did not dart and help. No one was in sight. Not a friend.
those fiery glances that he shoots forth when ly familiar form greeted her vision. The or-
angry.  He was a marvel of beauty and deal was every moment growing more pain-
strength. As he lay there, lolling like a dog, ful. She scarcely dared to turn her regards
Ida Macgregor, despite her fears, was struck again upon Alethe ; she feared to see her
and fascinated by the symmetry of his shape shrinking and withering under the burning
am inemajesty of is  ien  She gazed at gaze of the, beast, like a frail leaf in the
in at adnes  of ad tion an terror, scorching sun.  But the girl was calmer,
In the madness of, both these emotions, she stronger, and more sublime in her strange
was tempted to arise, approach the magnifi- strength. Her glorious eyes seemed starry
cent creature, and lay her hand on his prince- furnaces, melting t'he ferocity of the beast.
ly head.                                  Melicent shivered ;  a spasmodic thrill
Melicent, perceiving  the danger, grew- passed over her that Ida could feel. A
white as snow; and, with her face set in a rigid faint red flush appeared, too, on her cheeks.
and stony stare, gradually swayed- toward Ida remarked a singular intensity in her

ALETHE; OR, THE C]
to fixed and glassy eyes - a sudden
g up of the pupils, as if the power of
tad been instantaneously restored after
d of blindness.
looking over her left shoulder, follow-
e direction of her thrilling gaze, beheld
raight firm figure of Neal Kavanagh
the tiger than herself or companions.
1ad wound a sash around his left arm,
id in his right hand along sharp Ma.
gger. His face was pale, but resolute.
heart nearly stopped beating. She
shly forgot personal peril ; from the in-
of the discovery of Kavanagh, she
it of him only. She held her breath in
ation of a shocking spectacle. Now
er eyes were on the young officer and
-er she could not withdraw them. She
telicent clinging to her, and her hot
on her face ; she was glowing with a
nd more concentrated life called out of
my trance and inspired by the presence
vanagh.
gave him a look of earnest entreaty.
)mprehended her,- smiled faintly, and
a negative motion of the head. This
ess was surprising.
tiger grew uneasy. He scented Kava-
and, with a warning growl, lifted him-
ipon his feet. A slight rustling of
eaves had  admonished him  of the
ess of the Lieutenant, and broken
B's spell. The royal beast had now dif-
eyes to deal with-; eyes cool, stern, un-
ing, and threatening.
wished for unconsciousness, temporary
ace of life--oblivion, blindness-any-
to shut out the scene
crisis approached. The tiger softly
owly settled upon his fore-feet ; his tail
in the air like a hostile banner ; his
ody undulated with impatience ; his
lowed like spheres of fire, while his
outh displayed white rows of cruel
d a tongue red as blood.
:saw him rise with a bound and shoot
the air ; she saw Kavanagh spring
nd the gleam of steel; but after that,
few seconds, neither man nor beast
istinguishable. There was a whirl
1, an eddy, a vortex, a whirl of motion
grass ; then presently, when her eyes
early sightless with suspense and ter-
vanagh arose, panting and. bloody,
tiger was stretched on the ground-its
mbs trembling in the tremors of death
glorious eyes glassing over. Eav-
gazed at his royal foe a moment,
at Ida, tottered, and fell beside the
g~tiger.

EILD OF THE CORD.                  18
CHAPTER V.
HYDnABAD.
Neal Kavanagh had no sooner fallen than
Barnabas Hutton appeared at the spot, riding
his elephant. Je was not a little astonished
at seei  so may pale faces, nor was his sur-
prise diminished when Methuselah, with an
angry whistle, rushed to the scene of the en-
counter, and seizing the tiger in his trunk,
held him aloft in air.
Perceiving soon that the tiger did not
struggle, he tossed him into the jungle with
an lnnignant cry, and turned his attention to
Kavanagh, who was lying quite still.
It was then that the noble animal displayed
that intelligence which has rendered its spe-
cies famous in every country where it is
known.
He lifted the Lieutenant carefully. The
arm of woman couldnot have encircled him
more gently. He set him upon his feet, and
seeing that he could not immediately main-
tain his footing, made a mournful noise.
The friendly offices of the elephant were
not in vain ; the motion started his blood and
restored his consciousness. Grasping the
trusty trunk of the animal, he soon managed
to support himself; which encouraging
symptom appeared to give Methuselah the
liveliest pleasure.
In the interim, Miss Macgregor had arisen;
and now, impelfed by every instinct of her
sex, advanced to'the assistance of Neal Kav-
anagh. However benevolent her intentions.
Methuselah could not so well judge of them
as his master, and made a remonstrative
movement as the young lady approached.
'"None o' that, old boy !" exclaimed Barna-
bas, who had thought proper to maintain a
strict silence, during the foregoing act and
ministrations of Methuselah. "'That isn't
the kind of animile as young English officers
are afraid of. They'd sooner, a durn sight,
run arter 'em than from 'em. Let her come,
old chap, and I'll wager your trunk chock
full of sweetmeats that she'll bring him
round quicker'n you can turn a summerset
back'ards."
Barnabas slid down from his mountain of
flesh; and Methuselah, without further care-
mony, set Kavanagh between his great flap-
ping ears, and would have soon placed the
young lady beside him,, had not his master
interposed; his trunk being already around
her waist.
" That never'll do," said Barnabas. A boy
seven years old would know better'n that.
How'd you s'pose he's goin' to stick on up
there ? Goin' to put the gal up to hold him
on, wasn't ye? Meant well 'nough, I essay,
but Englishwomen is pertick'lar 'bout being
boosted to the backs of elephants."

{t y
f' s
S st f
s   ;.  '"
.i
v   .
}

'ham     It . 4, .. I   -.  1 ^                  R      f "  +M                                        C
..  __     f      .4        .3"r _"7' .'+;             r.    '          '  'i' r; sty , tr;x.         '...o::.-fq           7 ,!,-,tom  a ¢ \                       \
.                             " ,VA: i ' ,  'r 1r  fi 7 vcy 1 "my "+r   {      fA'i 4SX-i
1 ..     1    f  ((  1t"y 1  '   X    a  y''   .R. 'f   . a                        y


Ek t
i j  t
I

14                ALETHE ; OR, THE CHILD OF THE CORD.
Methuselah fixed his twinkling eyes on his reception. Dismounting, he threw llsib
master ; and relinquishing Ida, reached up to a servant, and taking a position when
and replaced the Lieutenant on his feet.  could see what was transpiring, k0
Meanwhile, Miss Rainbold and Alethe had moodily on.
arisen,-and the latter came forward to offer  Hafiz, who had kept conveniently
assistance.. The former had not recovered the way when wanted, crept up to him
from her fright, but Kavanagh had assumed entertained him with a detailed accou
gew interest in her sigt. The very quithe affair ; and ended pointing to the
ties she had affected to think lightly of had of the tiger. Bracegirdle, felt more u
suddenly made him a hero in her esteem. fortable tan before. In plain 'ight a
She was about to ask if he was wounded, handsome English officer, who had act
when Ida anticipated the question.       slain a tiger with a dagger! This i
Neal Kavanagh, who was now supported splendid achievement ; an exploit almol
by the American, answered with some diffi- heard of in the history of tiger-hui
culty, that he believed his arm was slightly This marvel was performed under the
injured. Barnabas, who was very quick and eyes of Beauty. Miss Rainbold wits
handy in all cases of emergency, unwound it; Miss Macgregor witnessed it, and
the sash from Neal's arm, and made himself dreamy creature of the large eyes wits
acquainted with the nature of his wounds.  it. The splendid brute was killed in
"You may call this ere a slight injury " he defence. The lucky officer had done
said, with a knowing shake of thehead ; what a young gentleman should do to'
" but in the country where I come from, the mence a love-afli'r romantically-perile
doctors would call this arm a chawed up own life ; destroyed a beast that oug]pta
consarn."                                have been destroyed with a dagger ;
"Let him be taken to the house at once," lastly, saved the pretty trembling er
said Ida.; " he bleeds frightfully!1 What from being torn in pieces. The more
shall we do for a surgeon?"              Bracegirdle thought of it, the less he lil
"Doctors are plaguey scarce hereabouts,"  Meanwhile, the native who had guides
replied Barnabas, "but where I come from to the Major's bungalow joined the
every other house has a doctor in't. The around Kavanagh, and, for a space,1look
fact is, they have so many that they're sick with seeming indifference. By and b
nigh on to all the time. Both male and approached Kavanagh, and began to exm
female buys a notomy and a book when his wounded arm. Hutton beheld this a
they've turned fifteen, and arter that practyses with some displeasure.
doctor's stuff on their ° own account. Don't  " Go 'long, Hindu, go 'long !" he.
know as I should left Ameriky if there "You know a durneu sight more a
hadn't been sich a stannin' army of botanicst greased cartridges than you do about I
eclectics, homopaths, and mineral pisoners. bites, or boar-bites, or lion-bites; or a
If we only had a dose o' marcury to give this bites, or any other bites you can mention
soger-boy, I rather think 'twould fetch him  " Sahib," answered the native, quietly
round arter a spell o' sickness. It would. know something concerning wounds."
Yes !"                                     "-Are you a doctor ?" asked Meli
Melicent was about making an impatient eagerly.
reply, when a gentleman on horseback, guid-  "Lady," he replied, respectfully,
ed by a native, reached the spot.. It was has given me the knowledge of healing
Raynor Bracegirdle-the person referred to and life-giving drugs. His name be praise
by Miss Macgregor, in a bantering way, on  Attracted by'the sound of his voice,
the previous night, and, as it was generally 'Macgregor now turned and looked a
understood or surmised, the prospective hus- features, which, though very dark, ere
band of Major Rainbold's daughter. Be this lar, and not destitute of a certain kind o
as it may, his arrival, so far as- his personal unity. His deportment was unassuming
vanity was concerned, was at an inauspicious deferential. When he replied to *ell
moment-Neal Kavanagh being really the, query, he bent his body, and did not i
hero of the hour, the centre of thought and eyes to her face.
attention.                               "Hindu," interposed Barnabas, " cc
Melicent greeted him hurriedly and coldly, yourself mostly to the airth, where those
barely troubling herself to inform him what roots and yerbs grow ; and not let your,
had happened, with her eyes on the sufferer fly off to a region where, 'in my op
the while, giving orders that could not be they're mostly strangers to ye. You
obeyed, asking questions that could not be critters a'n't apt to be over an' above p
answered, and making suggestions utterly so, if you know anything, tackle the cb
im Cacticable-                         arm at onct."
. Bracegirdle was not flattered by his  The native quietly surveyed the  i

ALETHE; OR, THE CHILD OF THE CORD.                       15
from head to foot; then turned, undisturbed, long as you live. It isn't every lad as can
to the examination of the arm.,        kill a tiger with a dagger. It's a rotted sight
" You may look on't, and feel on't, Hindu, better. than a slap at them Seboys. If you
and scowl don't, if you want to," continued want to go into theabusiness of tiger-kuhn',
Barnabas, "but it'll have to be sawed off at I'd like to jine you as a silent partner."
the second j'int, as true as you're a heathen !  Kavanagh laughed, and followed with his
It will. Yes!"     .eyes the tgute of Miss Macgregor, who, at-
Ida glanced quickly at Barnabas's grave- tended by Bracegirdle and Melicent, was
face.,          .                     ' moving toward the house, where he, anon,
~" You certainly cannot mean it, Mr. Hut- through the good offces of Methuselah, ar-
ton !" she said. Then to the native: "If you rived, to the .eat surprise of Major Rain-
have any skill, Sir, exercise it as quickly as bold, who  been sleeping during the
may be; for, as you see, Mr. Kavanagh is whole affair. , Being an eminently practical
losn much blood."                     man, he quickly had Neal Kavanaghproper-
"L   y, I am your slave," answered the ly provided for, and Hydrabad was.permit-
native, with a profound obeisance. ,   ted to dress his wound, which he did with
"Native," said Barnabas, touching the gentleness and dext 1ty, and to the relief of
Doctor's shoulder, " before you commence the patient, who,.being philosophical, didnot
potterin' round the boy, tell us your name."  much regret what had happened. Passively
The man did not notice the touch nor the submittinghimself to Hydrabad, Qf whose
question, but hastily seizing the sash which fitness or skill he knew little and cared less,
lay on the ground beside him, wound it about he sought and found an inward balm in the
the bleeding arm with great dexterity.  thought that Ida Macgregor had twice been'
"Perhaps you didn't hear me Y" added saved by his hand.
Barnabas.  Y-
The native kept at his work.  ...CHAPTER VI
"Methuselah,"'said Barnabas, looking into        H DEADLT DROP.
the twinkling eyes of the elephant, who hadTHDD               DO
not changed his position since his friendly ef-  If Raynor Bracegirdle had visited Major
forts in behalf of the sufferer ; "here's a na- Rainbold's residence in the expectation of
tive that's lost his tongue.  Show  him  delightful love-scenes and tete-a-tetes with
your'n!".'-                             Meicent, he was bitterly disappointed. That .
The Yankee tapped the animal lightly on young lady had never manifested a very
his nether jaw, and he opened a mouth that marked preference -for him ; yet it had been.
was enormous.                          agreed upon tacitly, perhaps,.by the provi-
The native fastened the sash and arose, un- dent fathers, that she was to unite her fortunes
conscious, seemingly, that the American had with his. The pair had often met, although
addressed him. Ida came to the aid of Bar- their interviews had not of late been fre-
nabas :.                                quent.
"Friend," she said, in a winningvoice,  For a few day, he strolled about the'
"names ,are convenient; besides, they are grounds with the Major, and amused himself
sometimes better than letters of introduction." as well as he could, trusting that the coy fair '
"Lad ," he answered, humbly, "I am one would, in due time, treat. him with less
called Hybrabad ; but it is not an illustrious indifference.  But this desirable change did
name. I.have practiced my art among my not come. While he hourly grew more en-
-native hills, and am little known out of them. amored, she, apparently, grew more cold and
I am what 1 am ; and'who can be more? I haughty.
am Hydrabad and thy-slave."             Raynor Bracec'rdie began to feel a burn-
As the native ceased speaking, his eyes fell ing jealousy of Neal Kavanagh. The latter
upon Alethe, who was contemplating him  was unknown to him. Their first meeting
earnestly. He averted his gaze hasty; and was in the jungle, where the tiger
for an instant his serenity was disturbed.  been slain; a meeting which he inwardly
"Pahib," he turned to Hutton, "let the cursed the, remembrance -of. Cordially, he
wounded man:be carried at once to the bun- wished this military young gentleman in the
galow."                                society of a personage so umversally obnox-
" It's the most sensible thing you've said, ious to mankind, that we will not name him.
Doctor Hydrabad," replied Barnabas. He grew morbid on the subject. He made
"Give me a toss, Methuselah, and then put-wild conjectures, then turned those conjec-
up the boy right gingerly, and I'll hold him tures$into realities ; a cheap way of making
safe. Carefully, old boy,carefully! Handle one': self miserable.  Raynor Bracegirdle
him as you would an egg. That's it! Keep soon believed evesyth jealousy could
a stiff upper lip, Lieutenant. You've done suggest. It maybe safely armed than the
some'at, to-day that'll make you famous as deviltook possession of Raynor Bracegirdle.

F,

J
to
k
. 1
k
E
t


16               ALETHE; OR, THE CHILD OF THE CORD.
Never were the fiercer and darker elements this girdle was thrust a creese, with a handle
of his nature so aroused.               of mother-of-pearl, surmounted by a moon-
At the end of three days, it was his fixed stone of extraordinary transparency.
idea that Kavanagh was his rival, and would  Lying on his dark throat, attached to a cu-
bear off in triumph the woman he loved.  rious silken cord passing around his neck,
Bracegirdle had passed nearly all his life in was a flaming carbuncle, which, at a little
India. His father had been a government distance, looked like a spot of blood.  Such
official, rolled up a fortune, and retired to a. was the Atward state of Hydrabad.
c6mfortable quietude, to live out his appoint-  Raynor Bracegirdle considered in what
ed days luxuriously. Itaynor had free access. manner he should address him, admiring his
to the paternal purse, had his own way, was sinewy figure as he walked to and fro.
violent in teraper and imperious-in disposi-  ".Hydrabad," said Raynor, "why do you
tion, beat the native servants, managed to get walk and mutter ?"
into all kinds of difficulties, and isowedbad  Hydrabad stopped, and looking at the
wild oats generally. But1)racegirdle, senior,. questioner, answered :
was a 'nabob ;, and Bracegirdle, junior, the  " Young'Englishman, why do you some-
son of a nabob. ,times walk and mutter ?"
Now, it isnot6to be supposed that the son of  "When you are questioned, Hydrabad, you
a nabob- was going .to stand .any nonsense should answer, and not question again," add-
about his love-affairs. He never doubted but ed Raynor, coldly. "When I Walk, I scarce-
he was- entitled to success; nor did it occur to ly know whether I-mutter or not ; but if such  ,
him at the tine of his arrival, that any one be, the case, it cannot be from content."
would be so presumptuous as to dispute with  . " Why, then, do you question me? If you
him, the hand of any lady he- might fancy. know how to judge of men'a actions, what
But, as he had brought himself to think, Neal need of wasting breath in vain words ? What
Kavanagh had thrust himself between Meli- is it you would say to me ?"
cent and his pretensions. One thing was true  Hydrabad, contrary to his usual custom,      W
beyond cavil; a handsome young officer was lifted his eyes to a level with Raynor's. They  ;
in Major Rainbold's household, receiving the: -Were large eyes, with large whites' and long
kindest attentions of the ladies. Had there black lashes; while the pupils were restless
been no more, this simple fact was sufficient and bright.  Bracegirdle searched his brain
to excite his jealousy and hatred.      vainl for the key to those mysterious orbs. 4      0
To succeed with Melicent, the, removal of  "What is there that I should say to one of, « $
Kavanagh he believed indispensable. How your degree ?" he replied.  " And yet there
could Kavanagh be removed? :He smoked was something I Would have proposed when     u       d
out many of the Majois best cigars while de- I first saw you walking here."
hiding this point ; and ended by throwing  "I knew there was I" said Hydrabad.
himself in the-way of the native, Hydrabad,  "Do you pretend to-supernatural power ?"
who had acted as his guide through the jun- asked Raynor, with covert contempt.
gle on the morning of his coming, and whose  " It is the impostor that pretends," respond-  °
services were retained by the Lieutenant.  ed the native. "I pretend to-nothing. There
He had attempted more than once to study are matters that you would talk of; now is
the character of Hydrabad, but with unsatis- your hour."
factory results. H e now resolved to subject Hydrabad drew his ecese from his girdle,
him to a searching analysis.            and azed at the moonstone in the handle.
Hydrabad was walking among the palm-   "   at see you   in the moonstone ?"      Xi1
trees, his eyes fixed upon the earth, his dark sneered flracegirdle.
lips moving at intervals. His garb was of  "No matter 1" answered Hydrabad, sullen-
rich material, and picturesque. The turban ly. "I see what you wot not of."
that crowned his brown brow was of white  Hydrabad turned on his heel to move
muslin, ornamented with golden embroidery. away.
The contrast between the bronze skin and "Not yet," said Bracegirdle. " How is
white fabric was marked.    His flowing your patient, and how prospers quackery ?"
trowsers of dark green silk were fastened  "Both prosper," retorted Hydrabad, with a
near the ankle by a silver cord.  His ankles disdainful glance, ".As well as your wooing !"
and the portions of his feet left exposed by the  "Fellow," exclaimed Raynor, "you pre- ?'
sandals were covered by wrought buskins of sumo somewhat on your relations with this
morocco. The upper part of his person was family, and my good-nature. Know, tawny -
clad in a loose and not ungraceful garment of slave, that I am of a choleric temper; and my
the same color as his browsers, falling nearly hand, ere now, has been as quick as my
to the knee, and secured at .the waist by wrath. Your dark race swarms my father's
a leather girdle, tastefully embossed, and house ; and, if a yellow ,face now and then
buckled in front with a silver buckle.. In disappears, who is the wiser for it ?"

1


ALETHE; OR, :r      H CI  OF THE CORD.                "19
. The cotintenance of Hydrabad underwent given channel, and the stopping of the pulsa-
a change sudden and startling. For an iu- tons of a large red muscle, are to me things
stant hm;sees shot vengeful glances at Brace- of little consequence. I care'not who dies, if
girdle. The sense of a great wrong seefned so be I but live myself., There are too many
resting upon him. But the glow of anger, people on the earth. I would they were re-
malice, a consciousness of injustice, or what- duced to one half, or one fourth, or even one
ever it might be, passed, as quickly as it eighth of their present number. It would
came.                                  then be a world worth living in."
"The Europeans are our masters," he said,  Hydrabad's face-grew animated, and his
gloomily.                              smile was cold and-deadl
" How long before.Kavanagh will recov-  Raynor drew back. Other was chillier,
er ?" asked IRaynor.                    he thought.
"Whenever it is the will of God " replied  "IHydrabad," he said, "you should be of
the native.                            that accursed people called Phansigars or
"Look you, Hydrabad ! Do such wounds Stranglers!"
ever prove fatal ."                       The native's hands moved uneasily;; first
Bracegirdle tried to speak carelessly, but to the silken cord around his neck, then to
was not so much an adept in dissimulation the leathern 'girdle !about his loins. Raynor
as to deceive, the person he was addressing. . could see the muscles of his arms quivering
" The tooth of a tigeris by many esteemed against the silken sleeves that covered them.
poisonous," answered  Hydrabad, looking  ,-Yes, Hydrabad, you should have been 'a
4   downward.                               Thug 1"
A bright red flush leaped to Bracegirdle's  "You," retorted -Hydrabad, scornfully,
cheeks.                                 "would never have had courage-to be a Child
"Did the teeth sink deeply into the flesh 9" ofthe Cord I You may be able to strike down
he demanded.         .             .   .a slave with your dagger, when the law is all
"iSo deeply that they met, and the bones on your:side-; but-put danger before you, and
were splintered."                      secrecy of purpose long to be persisted in,
Bracegirdle drew nearer to Hydrabad. He death and execration to be dared, and your '
assumed a different tone and manner.  ' arm would have no more strength in it than
" Would it be strange," he asked ; " would a broken reed."
it be a unheard-of ting ; would it be a  "Keep your  opinions ti I ask for them!
matter to be talked of, or inquired into, if this said Bracegirdle, haughtily. "It is not long,
voung man's arm should become dreadfully he added, since Miss Macgregor came near
inflamed and swollen, and ultimate in gan- being strangled by one of that horrible race ;
grene and death?",  *and it was the fortune of this same Neal Kav-
Hydrabad was silent. He appeared to anagh to snatch her frota fate. But he left
muse. He answered, presently:           his work half done, pride himself'on it as he
"All this might be, and no suspicion be may: he did not killthe wretch. 'Had I
aroused."                               been in his place, I would have slain the
"Suspicion I" said, Bracegirdle, quickly, vampyre, even had I to rend him with teeth
almost angrily. "Who spoke of.suspicion t and hands, and drag his-heartivith unarmed
Whyshould there be suspicion 9" *fingers from his vile body !"
Y     " Of foul pla ; of secret practices," re-  "Be not too sure of that, answered Hydra-
turned Hydrrab d, quietly. {bad, scowling. " His muscles are f rmer than
"Dare you speak thus to me, fellow 9', yours,and discourage none can doubt ; while,
1   Would you implicate inei' such a thoughtF?' in the art of love, he stands pre-eminently
"I dare, and do ! For this purpose you above you."
'. sought me.- You came to offer many rupees The wilyinative pronoyinced these words
i _   for the removal of the handsome European," in a manner most likely to be offensive this
:4  answered Hydrabad, in a voice perfectly un- auditors and did not:rr -in his judgment.
's  moved.                                    4It were not safe to beard me thus, if I
Bracegirdle, though annoyed-and alarmed did not-need you " eelaimed.Bracegirdle.
4    at the sagacity of the native, prudently Walk down toward tha river, under the palm-
{    checked the hasty denial.that roseto his lips, trees, that I may not be seen talking with you,
and, reflecting a moment, said:    .    and we will settle the number of the'rupeep."
, t    "If I had such a purpose, I'll warrant.that  "I care not who sees'us; and as for rupees,
Hydrabad, the native doctor, is.the person to I am not greatly in wbint of them. I wil1 do
fulfill. There is a prophecy ofcunningand your work, however, if you pay well and
evilIn your:face."                   cross not my mood."
" Talk on, Englishman! My feelings are  -Be placed his back ianlst thetrunk of the
not so tender that you will wound them. The bany n-tree,.under. which this conversation
diversion of a few ounces of. blood from a had taken place; and, crossing his arms over

I

I,

'                            5             i
f
l r    ' (           i 1    et

4
Q  t                          SNi     i
'                      t+

...                     t      i~


20®               AkLBTII; OR,- TN CHILD 'THE. CORD.
his breastlooked moodi.y toWard the river, it not well y e
whose'. nurmgring waters could be:heard. be judge whethe:I do it well  ou
Much was p    ing   the dark mind of Hy  - .Bra'cegirdle gave himmoney  aid, with a
drabadw R       eter     yo   be kafe1 ,guilty conseoudness at his  heart, hurried
"I know not; :whether you :myy besafely' from  the spot.sa               urie
trustee, but do knowtbat if you deal falsely
with mp, th&amp; pistol vn the dager shall be
your ;reward   I car  not,".he continued            CHAPTER YVIT.
speaking    and     dl            h  an   T        Wv9LIn-A SECRT0URNEy.
should actually die ; that: is, -iftee ~ay Aehfo       tetm      ftecnlgo
other method of g ting him out 'ofamy path. Hydra  a     o opprtuntof observing
Ashe now is, he is my misery and my.curse. him.-There was that about hita which ex-
me. wmevhe;reats me, with coldness, scorncin ted' ru  an  dislike. His embarrass-
me.  he reas m  wih codnes, &amp;,r~i' ment on first seeing her was not forgotten.
difference. If he were removed, my lostpo ?ersuaded'thathe wastheraby noccdent
sition mightxbe regainaed.,.,IA ay nothing of. and for no  dalas .r' yno -ciet
death-mark that Ii- !ot"ing of;and for nood, all his movements were
sition might/erg   hids                elss13 looked to;1ind When she could not
Hydrab       ug     h   shoulders and;'herself wateinhim; Hafizwas kept fithfully
darted. a gland ce of cunr teipt at; the. speak  dogging him;1 for he wadutral he
er         ,n..frheWas naturally shrew
crc                           '- ndendowred  with the' subtlety of his race.
"Takhe ims from Usyughts my hearing, He disehagd     e par       dimtothe'
from here,"resumedIracegrdle, with  bitter geat ace nce of Alete, receiving from
easts"and Iruplleiv.,youa to- hriot onl,' thanks btt rupees.           u
sadrues.'u notice this:. thereisto be  So well did the girl conceal her distrust
no distrut, no luring doubt, no breath of sid disguise her grePugncle of Hydraad
suspicion, no thought, near;or remote, that I that the latter not only ceased to b  confused
am in any manner concerned or. implicated: in her presence, ,bat 'began ,t&amp; 'feel much at
In wunders."            y              ease, and favor hpr with tender glances. So
"the girl musttand,hsaid ydrabad, icily; 'far as silence and passive could encourage,
"tegilmst not t hink you a murderer., she encouraged him ":rand that was quitesuf-
You would not pay a thousand rupees to be ficientto lure him on to flatteries and rtes-
thoug1t a murderer. .It is plain and reason-A tatioit ; llof whih  she herd demurely,
able  Liten  t  nowan  erb so~otnt~ 'atfully. keeping~her" purpose out of sight.
that if but a drpof the  c o    e               ee                    f   h
he dropped into ra',wundo it wil nocule  Ocshpritd           t  ofnderale
the whole system with death."        ate in the garden.Hebroughtwitih 'him an In-
"Will tbe sudden?,'asked Raynor, d-an vil. and aftei"tuning it, played with
der his  i b       ,   forun-, muchaskill. HEeselected . for -a theme wild
" No,'' b re d                         and passionate melody.,making the instru-
"o"answered Hydrabad. , ' Were I   tent empress all the embtion~6  h  ua
strangle youwith a eord, that would be sud- mind. It wept and wailed the human
den; 'for in three minutes you would -be mie -    t wep'nd wadleit prayedto
dead;but hawho  thre da aAlethe. It' was no  soft and meltingitws
dies not suddenly," t   e   y in dyig, nowquick acLehem'ent ; and anon, sobbed
diesnot uddnly,  4'with passion ;.ipre, poetry,t and thrilling ten
".Is the secret of Lhis herb much known 2" derness  ;po1id from the staring
Raynor glanced anwxiusly at the native.  He stole nearer,iistlarge es full' of
"Only to' a few learned nativee doctors,, thos. :He tried to cthhrgaze;but ahe
and they care 'not to CZ niunicate a knowl-wise in the arts of adept, gave him no stch
ade nerous.ot there area thousand     antage.tsgavpnosuh
ways of endiz        ghtwhat everyOne. s desirous Hof  a  d  ords, bt  a  csion
Bracegirde pouldint compretendwhimsa, .buhn           a
btninnyalg.' Ndothng sobrittle dasthat sounds    iaellow  d  al, 'e v   aid to
thivprledife.Oneougo  adih.Te  iss Ano expiaess-thdifferent emotions that swept
ga     kilu aspunometo  f b  ithe skin may over him. Alethe allowed
A.. Thought -may bill.like a sword.":  phis tefrderh   itom neruto ehas
ydrebad }pausd, ,then,. said , anby".  ;.You~ig  tdpa      el odut       u
" Yet fqr all tesemethods and devcesl arouare'a 'tea'er,"plashellsaidoithcopos
not; neither for ie and: steel." o   ' "  yuare,  ece,    h   ad   ihcxps
'. gain -his fingers soughtt th e cord abohthis i  da$ dfonda ite       ndcs    h
neck,; and ,trifled wt hit nervously..   "insrmentfromndaite him.stth
Jracegirdje coullnot comprehend ,him4. 9 Is ,k thisth  nweyomamid,"e
"Remain with me no linger," saidHydra  asked. "shit ths ethyat e  adn    h
bad. ,' Give, M oa :"hundred MrupeesTMa abad  "      statyou reply to I ydra-
plegefyour; good faith. There is.no bat-  lc nave I notpaieyorsll         Istnt
gain without something to bind it.,It' I do' enough? Doryuihodyudgmeln t noth

,TE; OR, THE CHILD OF THE CORD.                            21
esteemthat my commendations go for pressing., I look to you for assistance and
dngsteirmdelied                ihethe"seYou're a -iandsome gal, and a well-be-
Sove, fair maiden, i not satisfied with haved and I don't mind sayin' that I'm at
d mere r  t f      nt.  hydrsabad your arce 1ain't perhaps   a lads man
shedn and looked at the girl's small t feet on muchassome,but.I'll be dodrotted if I
tthhideornYS.dntik the pretty dears. You're in earnest,
th his der yng e a me  bydrabad" and that's a fact.  'see the real grit in them
Ss  rd-ethe, witspiritg;ospuneeyoursplendiferous eyes. - Now, Brownr, give me
served Alrvoie for morO'a,)PrciatiVe theword o' command,and I'm right about
s.   Tm               e y         p- fa   eyes riht, hayfoot, strawfoot, i the
-  n ceaseohre.i  I mnot of you 'kind. qustin' .of a biter !et I"  uitnadla
on cease   esar wi tusks                "Get our elephant, Mr. Hutton, and lead
r ae teohr tm   he   holthat sucks b,] yonderr"
oodfrom the  throat h Kep  yo ur diat-  ee "'n  a  twi klin', M iss.  But , I'd  caution  ye
iroHdrbm      If ora  do ou h   aitti to have an eye on them 'tarnal Seboys, who
Sir HIydrabad i,-,,f yon do not ha each le woiidn't mind ,doin' ye, amiscehiet ",.least-
tlagger under my odice that shallteachways,they wouldn't me     o a e,.ahib"
Hourespet.                 and showed  "We'll :keep clear of the epoys, a  ,
reledbaa started offwt  lartand,,
b is p         ait   butb fore sheadlone  P  Alete    with alarity,a
speaking he was as calm as ever. ano appeared at the, designated-spot wit
"It wats, but a jest, disdaifl maiden,?'h  nn apae  ttedsgae      ptwt
Said, with mofire of humility;,,49I was erxbb the elephant.
itin my sill and not my sentiments         e   h   kneel," said the girl.
S      u   o g   y     n    rt s          He Can clap hisarmround.your little
careflato ie  o   o frhwaaserfist and put you up as gently  as you'd ever
"omaint.    y,                       d wish to be handled,"- answer the accommo-
«e A   hae topriging inorteealai  ol'dtingProprietor of theelpat
hee gan  e e  hr s    , a    ud aseen   h       e  ahib  epted Alethe,
the exression on the yellow visage of Hy 'impatidless yu,yes1,Don,;oldboy,
would havetremblcourage eand cunninh his down! iThere's a load goin' to git onto ye
uhands,set hisaong teet.together; al d glared now, that'll be lie to give  e the rheu-
after the vanishing forte of thget      maticks,, I gness.  op'twon  stop .u
e Raynor Bracegirdle found him walkingand jest as easy as 'ifs uoik!uup thetroof of a
muttering among the trees, in a mood for any house. ider you g,        Well,
evl'dongt t      igtttfr About fifteen- I'd= no idee you's so spry, Brownie. These
evil"oing that mght offcr.n   ce         i   ukeNwstl
minutes after htstag oneec,     'lteHindu galsare surprisin' when 'Ithey're on
: left the bungalow, attiredfor a journey, and theirmke   ain'towbse ?eIs metim arwalk
walked swiftly toward the bamboo huts of.Doom eogh   n'tbeIsmiesak
walke      the           ba   o Rain- round when I get tired setting . You might
- the native servants, of :whom Majors an      u  w   iyhuelt n          adnu
bold kept quite a number. As she passed lay out two city house-ltfoandra dvardewup
along, she saw Barnabas Hutton amusing towoeu lo havcomforble fwant e to go, I
himself with some of the native children. ob                      a,
, She at once approached him.   s1'pAle
S"mrican," she said, in her musical voie,  Alethe s t    sai   p      f
;m "a   yo   kepasce? '--Can I trust       ,,Of "course; Sahib I
cano      keep"a'secet. Barnabas Hutton prag upion his favorite's
"fIantBre,     t's c      a'      alao aand thegl indicated
a' one Ito I keep'.Jest. p roe duce a few beaueof 'em,  i bc  h  mlanoeCdthe direction.rkIt was te nea eFn; o, mre
aou 4   fIdtf y u  is  es neaevedaok norowsmthe
se, i ° dnt   tet 'em like a dog to a root. properly;; .as  ar. a  the Ininngtars
e Trust m? Well now, I allow if Barnabas wont to bew, for the moon  a d
Hutn  fthe Ujnited .State of Ameriky, render them ver softanplsnt
can't be trusted, there's nobody in Ingy that  The enormosaniml taredoft.tarll
canI     ou'per^es     ueer 'bout somethin'. ing, monotonous pce
can Spakuperowmean elymq al   liit"   This,"7 said:Aleithe, "will~never do. One
'S 4 Mr. I3Lttoli," answered Alethe, promptly might run; faster. You -must know,-my
joad ufry, it i  eetr~ht   hud~red, that we are on a business of life and
hast, that my absene shallnt hermaed    "ou sl hn      it    r ow  w
by any. My erand nis most impriit    dnd edHutninte est.-fhor;and


22          ,     ALTHE ; 011 THE CHILD) OF.TIE CORI).
speaking to, the. beast in those' tones'which. thinking of 'the pretty creature near him,
long companionship Lad rendered him' fa- His heart kept titu inpg agait his ribs In
mihar with, he increased his speed in a very stead of regrettin the journey, he rejoicedno
remarkable manner. :Pursun ;a, road not it.y Lionst  rs, sopards, ad pnhrans
much traveled, they swept over  land and passed out ofhis onsc ion ssp  e thought
lowland,. passed wet junglIs and: ~owr   of Alethe., lie'wondered that :he had never"
a long rangeofhills lying far i the'distance before been struck with the excein sweep
before them.          a          d       uess of her voice. Heavalled himef of thee
As the night drew ohi and "grew 'elder; the" tremulous zodiacal light, to steal. glances at~
way became more solitary, and the path :nar= her face -It was pale as the zodiac itselfeyt
heads.= Sometimes flocks of parrots, dis- strangely, .and, for ,the first time in his lifefT3
turbed by their approach, arose from the 'was at a loss for a subject of conversation.
foliage and went whirring and screaming   They went far in silence, and finallyto
away.        '                           the surprise of Barnabas, stopped at a mea p
"These, Brownie," said Barnabas,    a lookingmud'ut, at tt ange
voice sewhat softened by the loneliness.hills mentioned, and near the wildest jungle
and' peril of their, situation, " are- the favoritet. that, he'had ever seezt.
lurkina       f the infernal leopardtiger   Tls    e   marked, unable, to conceal
adpnh"'     ;''                    is disappointment, " beggin' your pardon,
Alethe snuggled'a little closer to lher pro- seems giknpcomin'pfurpto,daooor market"
Dictor.  '                                Bepatient with. megood Sahib.If you
"    ' be afeared,' Misshe'went on  udge hastily you will judge wronglybI a
"Methuselah ' is powerful strongin his trunk, not midstaken n  the' placegwnl. I me the
and his intelligence is nigh' on't to human. landmarks. Permit me to dismount, and -.
He's got a  Wuik. eya; you canseldom fnd await me at the door. IfI call you,' come to
a quicker. You see 'these great ears ?" Bar- :me, and do .as. I bid you."     R
nabas tap edoMethuselah's ears' with his  The young i    spoke with a fervor and
lance. "Now you may think them' ears, a authoritativenesss that harmonized with the
fallin' down In" that, way,, stops 'his hearin';" natural gallantr o .teAmerican. l   a
but tis't o. Wileyougo along' lozily, on ready to hazard his life -for this fair flower of'
his back, s'posin' he's nothing' but mountain India. He caused the elephant to lie down,
of flesh, he's.tendit' strictly to his business-- and lifted Alethe from his back. He held
throwin' his bainkir' eyes yonder to that clus- her an instant before he would allow her to go.
ter o' bamboos;or yender,'mong them man-  "I'm afeard," he said, in a kindly manner,
goes; o  otelft;, 'hongthemn tamarinds ; "that you're goin' to a place that you don't ~
or to the rlght, among g the' sauls ; with- his feel, certain about. Don't'fun too, much risk,
hearin' fakilties actyve all the while. Why my pretty Brownie. If you don't feel sure of
does he doit? 'Acausehe knows the country your ground, let me go in with you; and I K
he lives in, and the dangers to be guarded swear to gosh, if an critter so iuh as looks
agnh -                        pertinent at ynI'll crop his eoars ll.ks
"Canyou go a little faster, Sahib ?"  Yese!"   tPh                     I
"I can, but ,you must look \put for 'the' "You are very kind, Sahib; but no One i
-branches- Were tra velin' rightsmart, now  will harm me."
An Arabian horse couldn't keep up with us. She tripped to the door of the hut, smiling
Is it much further, little gal?"        gratefully.n
"st may be twenty English miles, I can-  Barnabas followed her as far as he could
not tell, Are you afaid, Sahib 2"      with his elephant, then earnestly assured her,
"No," answered the American, with more that if there was. any trouble, Methuselah
di    than he had    eviously shown.  I should scatter the hut with his trunk, and
be lo  to a nation tat never stops to be; tread her enemies under his feet.
afraid. But if it's no offence, and isn't chan-          ...
gi ' the subject too Violent, I'd.like to know      CHAPTER VIII.
so e'at more o' this business?  If it don't              MEEnAf
consarn that rascal, Hydra;l, I ain't so good  ' Alethe knocked, and was  'Catosya-
at                 o      ,      eood     AlenafersaiIgash        cautiously ad
agesi''sIused to .be. ..I ain't. ,lo 1" "mittedsate"Witnga hot  3n
Athe knew well how to g d her secret,  Theperson who appeared was an bld man,  s"
andTd so. They swept swftly'on.        with white beard, overhanging forehead, k
theogea bdyof Methuselah went surg-and' deep-seteesHiexrsonatis4              '
ing through the jungle, like an enormous  was both ryandwary     but when    had
low racig over the sea before the wind  taken a rapid survey of his visitor, isisfea-  y
Barnabas could not for the life of him help tures settled Into composure.

ALETH]F; OI, THE CHILD OF THE CORD.
 a' loosebrown  "It is to save life, oli man1" cried Alethe,
ise fee, ithav  lay ae vexed at his tardiness.
cr. The Interior  of  "The more  eason that it should not be
[e'olor.e bT e blazing bartered like the common commodities o
tiedh by enable him existence," returned Meerab.
viwhich, tol oaenaily "xIf it may not be sold, then give It me, at
sor,'heoccasional    ftmonce, for I will not go :ence Withom it J
ks In the little apatiatint, saidAletheresolutey: begnto show
heb.This was one, of  The sunken- eyes o6f Meera
SfdIa, who read t  i-an Te bim yu crave is too precious for
es. of plants, save in rare Instances, here the wi
hie Brb ~,we     ebdhaven Asplainly indicated."
hebo sati, "whence oed  Ue Paused .Aletbe's thrilllng',orbs' were
ubpn sit,                        Friwhencn instant he felt itself
business revealed In her sight; but the changeof his
hse, andomute            ance was scarcely perceptible.
rad the  Baimnut       Tifle not with my needs, old man!i I
r,"   the Brahmin, put.      y y and the css' to'which you be-
yo  are acquainted With 194 rbo     frot his erson a  ballet of
haigspirits that reside  eerab took frmhsprsoth wetfof
these sprtskllanth      ' incontining' oiiiin and takingteefo
espc                      fkills;aethes  narcoticrweighing'iveor six
red~ ~ ~   ~~~pic supie  thaig 'ganwas abottt o swallow it, when 'Alethe
ed buanonmade angr.    schdtrom him, together with the wal-
l btao     aease.       sace i rmWj g of Brains, I know some= let.
t  a             at              ted undisguised astonishment
colebtachl.Srl        at this s ingular action.,
eaie b    uanld-urelyot, learned Meerab, that I take
uneiesly" he  ansm    from you your enemy. 1, Yu, shll intoxicate
your tnovre til yo have attended to
ahet 'handsome yu   rinn    oe  1you eedt
red leth  I come not Iy request. I would ae 'thear f one
pned of eth. IhIcoe eino Wh', has uot lived a "third of th~r yea rs;who
ikif o det. Iamhee f or I I lfe'o le ,, smmrwith its flowers
dadttsswetam herrhforonh        em.He must live!"
e'set'r                                     .r object."  '  ,kndlin
Mer b.                    She spoke with       enthusiasm. er'
eeia.,        tre    s beng radulgyaroused"
aetedote, or counter-agent nature was being gra a   tIsallI
res     he girl         ive    e thewallet,child
~i$  rsmethe  gitrlf:hehae    there is 'no more of the'fecions~
tell  e thetlatre of thev'vewalk. It     'e: girl;


24. ALETHE ; OR, THE CHILD OF THE CORD.
"One,younand brave," she replied.a    through the opening appeared Barnabas and
. IheaEngsha    "akdteIahth           trk01teeehn.Tefrmer
"H   se zed )Meerab by the great and hurled him
"And an' officer                       back ward ;. he fell, near. Methuselah's feet
"Yes~"Barnabas, with flamig ager, tore the cord
Th"ak- from Alethe's neck, and kept her om falling,
.   "eitlu  die I" cited Meeirab, ha-with his strong arm...g
ing with rage.  Let them allies  It"is " %ve me air- mre air, sahib !" she mur-
time that .we wer~e our ow'n . i aste'r . The nure.
brave Sepoys are at work. Bldod is flowing  "Tul out. e ti4 s
like water,. Let itflow! I shall reoice Kn. k .out.one siff tievis,  delah
when the last death-rattle of the larjeJ  n     o  esideof this{eil'a  hel"
press- is heard.                    o        heri twas the motion that Barnabas
"afde,, r whether 'r wa            his voice that
Yoreu  ho "udhv   etr hi is,'fe      uided him, it was cg. twin. that he laid: hold
careful hod Di incith our drludad.pep eto of theelight bamboo structure, and rent away
revolt and bloodshed  ;They   er  switng ona-s a of it as if it hcduencd n e f
upon de     t ruei~. ~a  Srou P eri.  with wisps of straw. The resh airrusin.in
them " answered-.Ale    - with less vehe  d yelled the dangerous  aor  rsrg
mence biit:edaifearnestness.     'e              ,,edgrsapor ;ud restored
" Young    iai,' aid Mera    , boin         eab tried to ari; ut.soften     he
calmer,   our face grows   liar as  loo       th  attempt,   thselas ohe     him
Tel you.n  etir iet . '-'wE  olist wher bfan1qk th his ever-vgilant.,truak; and
are ouaoif6,etoi. What 'ia     iiiy  finaly, to give emphasis to liis wishes, held
areyo.~h~~''toI~ Watimu~ebrings, one of, his o'r'et ff~a*  n ~l,

ALETHE ; OR, THE QCILD OF THE ;ORD..
"If you deceive her," answered Barnaba8  playing at some kind of :
ternly, "I will hunt you. doaz 8S, would can't understand. , He see:
a beast of prey) ad strangleyou  ;ith fellow,ut that handsome
rour own cord."                         dbin mwith thegreatestcoy
" Enoth ". ,gd   fxroundthtuttarinogdandco109o
He looked at Alethe. A'Girl, Wwas not he, 1az,4j,]irate j-," and _nfr la
wil of the, darkgods of e~at that .youhould, conscious of his existence

taken into the body; eitherby iite oisprpen,
or sting of insect, or byioculation, thatl
-  will not counteract and.deptroy.  op09 h
R one drop :on the part where the poison=was
introduced, and the cure is.certaa  Xn casa
of the bites of venomous 8erpent, t appli-
cationsmust be speedy; 4iother* where ithe
poison is less malignant, the urgency is not,
so great; although;;iU mattes s of life  and
deat chaste is always desirableiJ 0s'the de.
stroyi" element slow orfasti; sgtioneGn irl,
Meera has 'edeemed his fro  s  err  a .
Alethe' -drew the wallet from: her bosom,
and found the serpentine viol. It was
full of a fluid that looked ljke aneld dian~
. monds, it was so clearanid r0iant.. Sec$ng
thu vial upon her person, she tossed:the Wal-
let to the old man, Whqhomediately;roke
4 oil a piece of.the gum and, 4a19wed t 'irth
TD avidity.                ~ ,  " i : t  :' ;  1  _
" Sib," 'said 'Alethe, "letus return.'t
In a few moments, ehuslahws'er
ing them, Witlygreat swiftness, toward Major
Ranbold' bungalow. '   :
CHAPTER XE     P. 4tv
THE DROP OF 'DEAT  APpJIRH     EDQM OF
Nel Kavana h awoke       : tl.e morrow

25

.I

Y

t h}-  e M  , visible change
dinner.
S a cyis  t"" sheissig " H e  is  very  +
h     of il1y ' b * ,hild I" . 'i -
19Wt      ,o pq erpe


ALETHE; QR, THE CWILI) OF THE CORD.

that the Sahib is in great danger, answers
the grsteppin_ atilnearer the couch an
adjus lln tlej,  ,. While doling this,an
while the Major was a  inspeeting the ani
andva    the-a'ttent on of the young ladir
to its 'swollen' condition, she''ad to Kav
nagh na loW tone.
"udid not fellowmy lnstrctions. TYou
arm has' been dressed by Hydrabad since
last saw you."
"You are' mistaken, my friend. To n
knowledge, Hydrabad has not been in th
room siibe you left'ruelast night,"eplie
Kavanagh   "But I have slept profundl
-unnaturally, Ithink."       
Ah'!'that accounts' for it," said &amp;Alethe
quickly. "Youhave been under thaintluenc
of a drug, andra score of persons might haW
entered your chamber without- wai in
"Girl," sai Melicent, "don't weary Mr
Iavanagb with your observations, It seem
an effort for-him to speak:"
"His arm must h attended to," deposed th
Mfajor,bustlin4 about'" "Where is thatum
bug, Hfdlrabact  Al Ti here hecomes. Loo
here, yon root-;aird-herb man Y'?' 'our"patien
Is bad enough. His arm's as large as a si.
pound carronade. It's mynotion that you'r
no doctor,  oct    drabad!   Bracegirdle
come in." The concludln words were ad
dressedtd aho, who, for some reason, hac
followed Hyclibad to Kavanagh'eapartmient
On seeing'so 'many persns present hWa
disconcerted, not knowingwhether to ad
vance or retreat.' The Major's words decided
him, and he came in, while-Ilydrabsd. ad.
danced, with an air of. mingled respect and
confidence,,to the bedside of-his patiet.
Aletlie placed herself where phe could
watch the play of his features.
A little feverhas set 'In during the nilht,'
said he,.
Kavanagh kept his ayes fiedtadlly on
those ,of the native. He saw whrt Ida )iOr-
gregor had inorethan once fancied she had
seen-something fauiUar in that yellow vis-
age.. What was It?  Ida htd asled that
question, Xtavansgh now asked It. Was it
t h  voice that s        sufrecjend 'stortled' him f
Wasit the eyes, orthe teeth, or the mouth-?
He could not tell.
Ida stood at-tie foot of the bed, observing
the countenances of each.-
" The arm," added Hydrabad, "has h n}
prudently been exposed toa;cold       of
air, and you behold 'here the effects ofe
exposure."..                      ; t Wndr.,q
KTa vn'nsusierea 'his aFas   jan
an instant to Ale e. There was doubt, fear
hope, and entrea intle'gla cef 3It'rba
was baring the arom,, and  id o stemute
language of thi look  but It "did not- sape

d the penetration of Ida and the jealous watch.
4 fulness of Melicent.       I
d 'The wound'was frightfully infamed. The
Sred flesh seemed . ready to burst, while a
3s green watery humor exuded from the im.
a- prints 'of the teeth.- All save the Doctor be.1
held the aria with surprise nd alarm. 1Whao
r' -ever 'Braceirlo was prepared, to see, the
I reality surpassed the anticipation. Hydra
bad,ronly, was cam-and untroubled.
y "Send for 'Barnabas Hutton," said Eava-
.e nagh.
d  - Sahib, there are too many present a..
y read    our. safety depends on perfect
qulet,"'inte  e'Hydrabad.
s,  Aleth    ted to hear no more, but ran for
e Barnabas, and soon came back withhinj.
e   "Barnabas ' said Havanagh, faintly  "I
g sh'&amp;ll neer ride ith you'again on your ole.
phant."_
", Let every one leave the room     but
s Alethe,"'said Barnabas, 'firmly and prompt.
ye No one present' had seen him .display.
a' Such decision and' digity.
-   "Iawait'thecm andof the Sahib; I am.
k his'physician," said Hydrabad, with a slight
t depression of the brows.
S "Go-l' added I'avanagh- "to Bnbas
e confide myselff"
,   "ight about faee, then," said the Major ;
"there' is no' virtue: lilre quick obedience.
d EByes to the door i marchI"'
. ajor Rainbold' retreated, followed by
s' Bracegirdle and the young ladies. Hydra-
bad was thelast to -leave the apartment; he
strode away with the same unmoved counts-
= 'nance with which he had entered.
Barnabas closed the door the instant they
were out of eight, and locked it.
" Now, gal," he said; "what's to be done
must be done qc. If somethin' isn't done
to that an, it'll have to be cut off afore
twelve hours! It' looks to me, for all the
world, as ifWit had been wounded by a pizen-
ed arrer."'
"Sahib,""said Alethe, "this wound has
been poisoned since' I left you last night.
One fatal drop has mingled' with our blood,
which, unless met by 'a power  counter-
'agent, will suielylresult in death."
"I fear yourr announcement is but too
true," answered Kavanagh. "That dark vii'
lain was unworthy of our confidence. I
commend myself to Heaven '"
-" Look at this, Sahib'!" maid Alethe, hold-
ing up 'the erpentine'vial. "Last night It
was'nore than forty English miles distant ;
bis morning itwas here. In this vial is life,
ho's, end doyeS! 'In life there Is all ;'without
it, here Inthilng"      the'
She gaze"in' triumph at thesparkling
liqd; then, witn.,a'steady hand, dropped
Into Efav anagir's wound' one glowing ghlsten-

26

ALETUE; OU10T8E CHILD OV THE CORD.                         27
ing drop. It fell, flashing like a molten'die  "'Lethe," srepe  Barnabas, earnestly
mond, and, hissingin the red fesh, disap.. "when you 0spa; I forget that Ihave a will
peared like lightning,                  of my mown.'l   dnd    n     ated him-
"It      gld                                                 nbe=burns, like fire 1I1.groaned' Eavaiiagh.  A lethe smild  d  ~nb5postedhm
"It arsiupmy veins like splinters  F self at the ddor, with a heart so honest and
ste d"                                   so much in the service of Alethe and Kava-
te l  murmured Alethe.' "nagh, that there was not money enough in In-
" I there doubt? Isho fath full and'  to    rup
perfect?" gasped -avanagh.
"It is! I have nota 'hadowof ibar,' Can-             H&amp;PTER X.
swered Alethe, with singular confldenc.r
Barnabas whisperedin her ear:'           K       ,    SEtnued "1fah-
"'Laethe 1 'Lethe I11He ;nisay have deceived  Havanagh's tranquil statecotne;fr
yo   e"a                      d       and faith hl=watchers sat by his bedside ;
- No, no r Ther is that"within me that Barnabas Hutton stood guard over the en-
assures me beyond the pain of distrust   trae'e 'tog the chamber  the Maor walked
you not see that effects hin already    retledl  Intheerah   while' elicent
Kavangh haveda prfoun' sigh". He pased thaT dubiousotiSnhrwirom
felt avanaghhea tedrbleprsatdor.' That or suffered the ifaction ofBracedle' co-
nameless horror that       been drifting pany   low stairs.  rthatentean made
through his nerves'for" the lasthhOur, ell' pow- repeated attempts wodlvert her attebntioli, and
,     and dead, stricken downoby.smore produce' a faurablerimpression); bit never
ert1e  element.  His conscIOusneas ebbed with less uccesS. He a preached more than
bakfrn      hegtwa      fdettowVard 'once-the fsubest ofhislov; but only to be
ack from the gatewa g ernfdeatollik(     v  no   t by her adroitness or indiffer-
which it had beenutosing and  rolling    enes "Finally, rendered desperate, he'accus-
hiavanaghstretched out hisrghthand;ed her of heartlessnes, and a design to trifle
A       bsend t      thewitha   withhishopesaifeelngs.
mlee plueand     in    l he thOfethe     Piqued b "his charges, she wished to know
zodiac, placed utheatipgas , of her ne in his by 4What right he questioned her conduct, or
pam He tried to coe his handupon the what reasons she had ever given, him to e-
Pam  e   tri dite me   his s  trngt pet more frong her than friendship? fHad
uivering little members; bt her oe grateful look, she:accepted him asaesuitor, ,dlfso, at what
that more than repaid her toil and dealer, period;for she could not remember that the
then his eyes closed with an irresistible n- woad lovOehadp  edbetweenthem. Infu-
guor, and the balmy influence of the ineffable ture,shbegged him to co   his atten-
elixir was fully uponhim. He didnot sleep, toons to the ordinary courtesies of life, nor as-
ibut swam delciouslyto and fro, in a perfect pireto ajt inb:aaereO She was not a child
state of rest, between sleep nand waking to do a'foolish thin because twopleasant old
"Bruisfest tee slees,  araa   said 'genlenrei wanted her to, or was willing that
BAlethe, in a soft tone, after watching , with she should. That was her fnal answer, and
wonder and delight,  atherbenignefeCtoffthe liethould go about his business.
wnde a                                  This was the subttice of a conversation
Hutton bruised some leaves: in a wooden which le     a o driskatcog rdleta amoserably
mortar, and assisted the girl to bid tthe  h aangry,mortiabndsd leate ofund
carfuly uonthe arm. "- This and other In this enarnlablerflod; hO left the bungalow
carefully upon she s l and   ently  er-v and walked abbut the  grounds, where he had
friendly ofaiesshe thoug h could not see time to reflect on his position, which was
formearhr .Kanghe p          .an thing but desireble. h=His sentiments tow-
Therhe     esed her presence.the door.Alethe h-,e vanagkhad :ot changed;he 'still be'
There was an Ida Ma    egor gde       held in him a rival;. and the author of his
answered it,, and Ipresentegunglippiness.
pale and anxious. HisWt quiet feattfres 'and present unhappy
nearly suspended respiration thrilled her,'at r' Whies'in the ydung office's room, and a
first, with a 'terrible apre             wneo thera    ithdh3   dhremorse ; but
passionless' calm of Aleihe's 'expression 'and' produced., ez ketice  rmre    u
p  satisfied manner of Barnbas indeeliel  since his interview wit :Melicent this weak-
the satisfy    n      B                    ess had passe. He 'as again Raynor
the paceda a                rthe      ir       ethe sohofanabob.' Ihisan
which he acted uafrfor tedl4near    andcagi,;he, exulte In the dark- edo
whichshe acceptediesoe        a  Alethe  whih he was the pritneunover and athor,
. j He must not -be 14ft-slone, ,said  bn  e'stethe hmslfbeeshaarind-
in her liquid. tones.  Wen   watch hima tHee-stretched  he beneath a tamarindr
bad not Bracegirdleenr this roa)m.",,tipe setvrants, 7moni itrlly' expecting te- see


I

ALEiTB;-OR,' THE GILDT) OBI THl 0U.

29

28                ALETHE ; OR, THE CEILD OF THE .CORD.
one coming to him with the news of Kava- you ! My skin is yellow, and myreligion to
nagh's death. A consciousness that made him  you is as the religion of hell; bitt I know
tremble, blazed through his'brat,,  miser you, nevertheless, OSahib cI rexeoted you
able being calldHyabad..a; slave, a serf, would t:ythe cager. Icae n,   frtht
a peonhela over him secret, like a flaming i ai  minisr death. I dropped the
swordi  This" creature might, at anytime, deadly drop into the oozing wound, ore
prompted bynaliceor mischief. make an ex- for myself than for you., I know mm
pose of his crime and its cause, adrender trade. .3 I know the d eadful mystery of
him a criminal in the eyes of the law. This Bowanee--the deityof the PhanigarseYou
thou ht was not to be ,endured ; it stung, it are: to.me as ,the tottering: footstep of the
maddened him. He hated 'rot only Kava- fearful child. Before you, all  s erta
nagh, but also Hydrabad,with &amp;burning in- and doubt; before me all. is r  e tvae  a
tensity of hate.                         deten .Think notthat I 'aft disappointed ;
His education, his prejudices,:his habits,. the deadly deityI serve has .  me  ,t
his position, his wrath each and all added to wisdom Simpleton!  onbl sm etn
the haughtyeand I contemptuous det~statIon: aun thine, enemy as much as his.  ive me
whch oa l  hmde' ~gow  ithnum for the opportunity, arid f . would drop time de..
the 4,. willing.tol _e' employed to  rid him  c(fihpoing drop:it thy  blood a  amya
of a  o                                              ad  almly as
oftQU axao supowithout, that             ntohis  0treat me, uropean   Op en thy
Witou..consideion    without that fore- wealkd:feminine eyes. It is true! Instead
thought that auses-to.: reckon: results; oftheiu the master, thou art the neophyte
without:that calm judgment that looks into and, the master. Sahib-" he  inte tw
fiturity and, deduces A                '               "' i''h       one    o- prophecy of. what ist  ard' the bungalow, and the great carbuncle
come from the present, lre, hurried tothe  nhis ,thxoat-flamed in the afternob nsun..
apartment which the hospitality of Rainbold "tellme were that airy structure will be in
had ,fur fished -him, and iwalloweda a large forty-eight hoursY Tell me, what will be the
eeped           whih ndla    ehis anger,         drestinyofthosewho now, respire. beneath
aetite for heve.umiliation, and :,tte1 sth  ,sateed roof?If yu can tell me these
e restraint in chidhoo&amp;,will noflearn it tin yd   ,"s
nonhod.yra idf'isaid. Dracegir dle, shivering,
manoo.                               I3can not;Ifthou art Satan, sayso; ifthou
Raynor Bracegirdle stalked from the now  'a say     ours
bungalow,    desperate and recklesU              n     mb   expression grew
rman.r                                       n  obe xrsso He,.wanted an obiject on- which, ito over the .features c" Rnynor.
wreak hiasvengeancer. &amp;Wben he had walked      an        f;teRedate,"  replied Hydrabad
some distance;:{e came suddenlyupon the turning the whites of his bees-upward.  , I
one he wasthinklng of Hydrabadj q    ing! pendulate bpween  enven   d  e    ut I
bnathacanopy'f vines and pa im-feaves. amn ev r greet' the. lest. ,What ,I, dono
It wastheopportunityhe wanteddi Re was kn  "                              n htseed  - my
one ofthe lords-of the soil ; he bhad st ken. The pit   Wickedness aeeverp
such verminbefore, butnever with th- ent. Tbe ali-powerful, y      a   rst  ea -
uhtcentiveethat nowiurged sim on. It waazbutgel o a dfion.©Thi ese'two owerusthan t
othe                       "    twsp     ar thave it
the drawing of a, daggrt~he ;ratin AOftn all their ownway ad o     serh    ti
arny--the striking of~a lo#n* the flowigo f a 'i  oso'b1etotell 'whnothse aelandwh
red uid "that -was; a t  n    ae      a     he~r 4  d at ,n h i te ngl ndwho
re }lid  ha-wsll'j~is the:-demon. x YOU will find itmu.Ir have
Raynor Braegirdle otuld do that :  he passed as snsaint with  eak  omew  e
death of a tawny wretch would conceal the weaswa 4mnnd and, a fae p omn, when I
crime of a white Christan. So heapproachi the al-pervading Deity."pi      eyes
ed H drabadwithot          o he stole  p   Hydrabad arose; he strethed forthhis
to       awithoutaund;esobesatoodmve. muscular arms and, his brown hands; he
ydrabad?-hko a sileit spectre. i tt' turnae4 hismysterious eye toward heaven;
He struck-as he had done befo  and the ;nd rlaughedaoiceyet.oa         he   n;
dagger rebounded like an 'India-rubo"bll ,Raynor , racegirdle instincieydw
the w        gte   p   a si                 kHisown wickedness seemed to threat
Hydrabad sprang ,toldofeet, and ,laughed yenm hm ; his own evilsi nsemdrlig
a bitter moc      gh;,,j                  pon hm p mu        ionsseemedrli
Unedged  ooll"     exnlaime&amp;  Did-    Dark devl t"an eedyorwiho-
you imagine that one trained;from infancy ?der1tuself-possessione- "Th ynor,with I am
to the practice ofacurming and the arts of 3ke your race. I laughatu not that I, am
subtlety could- be heat0j anid anprised ;shy te tcks ofyo     g,abeordrefolest d
a hte                                            y MRI, 08es iable  rder .r, ost
to me as milk.dto a    j  ahsbA ou a euonme. .Begon1   how not your accurs-
-m  e   pi ri t;:4:     t e r ;tyH o  l k n e a  r f a c e a  a$ in .   o o k  a _ t h is ! " e r ae   a i
mable spirit.,, -= bm(w you .,rhow weU1l knout. irevovr                    owisbeat  "Tee are -

depths in this Away, andu1st me s you and.w  o sW       th   ysteries of Fire
more." 'hous't                                          ticms all-theg m-
Not so. Wellmake another comiiltapW  and Air. Let us b practical. Kavanagh"-
" Nydrabad. - W mhe lowered2= b                   olce  wati1ill-4"-
said HydrbBracerdle.                   "Will 've his fire to the fire of the sun,"
"t Never ! never l! cried  ry   nt ist4  efl  deib~~
" Be not too confident, Sul  Yeir w   n     se itid   entLtap
the twaies. motould xlieaiakay  'Aa 'with    ouram' phoref' ntsieered
the twoumaidn .w n and.her, st  e   Braceg'rdle. " a   ih wlUl'die, unless you
maid," said U drab awith cool aasn   area  pdou  a     eli? Whalhen?
a"seaid o  a studyig nw d esfdrmy I willelou what-I thinkthe whet4hen
lInstead of y ou ngt sk whystruck?" will be the circanistantes ifhis death be
pleasure, wyoyou   a                ssinglar, that-an  gl1h surgeon will be
demanded s    Ias whatI kow ?      y sumnmined frnt Cawnpobc of Ltcknow, to
w hy donethendeadi poison had been examine the body.
infkee it        od. -ou believed byou 'nBracegirdle looked  fudosly at Hydrabad,
hausd norhr nedof.  Youn.wih~d{,no who laughed disdainfuilly
parnerhi wih eied son : flI nlia;. You; "Let them," he answer ;'bungail thie,ur-
partnership with-     beers    ;bon e   sons'in Indiagna° ndnot orne °o theme w  be.
thoug-ht 'a secret might, be 'better kept by cm  en-nIda  udntc  thmwlbe
thano.   sec er e rit  1ad I beeU :the -wiser for tthe hejounefy-If one should be
than two.you  dyre.  ydrabaid  F wouid' bitten by a mad tiger, and die, thik-by that
Braceg dandaa yourfy
haesanHydrabad. I- canmibt k oil3laIi" allthe waurgeons' in th' Wrld d4Oiid- find the
It is the way of the, world. My fllf"  rt~i virus that produced the cet'  tsl~os~
n      to you any longer than-it seyou  e1 On that point, be at ease.  n  e-
phrp. ; , ':;- -             ,- "sides"='fin hgered the ffanng('crbince-
The native looped dreamily at the mn  "    eo    rEng      a   rrest on the
stone in the hilt oflhis dagger.  to  b      theaOus   lhan    i
" Your philosophy is well suited  y
condition. But tell me, watarrfatalist,enorthatdro  e t-
how long before tatdrp   il O;mPlet=tri  its,hivmernithatoms.tni whaytriked  a tree d
mysterious, -work?" '                  n-sie     tt   tln~-Wa ywdd
Its acti is decisive;{and '    emy q      "                e          i
will go back to the elementsohlerta that ydra    eonc     atoarzed his
predicted. ttwenty~foir    t;li6firO" in that dtirk +ehemiic'ht-htatjzdhs
ed     will be absorbed'   e'        the inexplcable nature
he sun. The                             f'flthlpatio  atch theorange' while ltlswihin your
the ary atoms toa idk~ dusttwill  tseb      er  nelpwhile
it was in the begiig'-  PtW th  n-,   tI oluldan do  -   i e -kneh t  " nut
The native still gaeehe iRlon-       "I would faindoiie      howl"   ut
stone.     -      -1-:~J--             be~ylt-
Didyou, or di     feehaiw
-suspected 1"-askt=d ra:tt  -'         taF  oil   ustbniWlte'tvy.e1t'ol
"i knew I was suspected,  IItoodby th  youa Iwasite'm
bedside. Iread-st9pci ninchreshtd       (xrtls G    .l      ticsOMU-Oem5
wedie. ved on me li     'But care   tic life of-which plodding earth-feels dream
nowen itis oime fyabi to give back iot. FIl walk *ith-SathnpWhogecard is it
nthe it s  wti ri  ohder    i   but mine ? If I am the devil's-hand, et-those
the of ittle spai-ek wited toter g"itwi' tremble only, who feelmiydlt hl  ! is art-
Sto its starting-point as the shuttle fSies to iug- eyee dflauledC likth  n#1  -s
the hand of the weaver-               throat-tan  r w       e e   i h     - a
, "Yuae".r~b~Ieai~sd -$r ddegi"  HI Satan ever walked, the earth in liianv
dle, inso  ,t9tiy... 2' L-            ornn'said Bra icd ~  e    l4Frl    n l t
"I know-not '~hat' I worship ,= htt know "lsouttt1
that I am }    t           4 dthedsteedtedbY'tuedglitter
gaysOfthat domio                                 t iM~a  H  t and percelvorthe  is ite ourf i rek
Light are the fathetrnod the mother of ai what you most dei     n  is oon-
things"  ,      .   a3                anstatiit oltkt fb d 'Iba  er{ i sbn
Hydrabad threw itika'mrms as if to bathe Stone }The11&amp;rw gwdLh- y lovleyeher Is
his hands in  e tealadh He turned ziot4iove    at asion.
bislface upward in glomy ecstd glaolfmoy- "Whom? tgeb hed  S drabad, softl
inal a dew12latd s from the sunW    ~    lcn   'bete     yrbd ot#
- "al-rit f attk£gs fad away , ate  be- " 4 Thb orhe wlie ith you  eteothe"
yond thgof  t   s o  an   It is of he a ,continued," iispasson, and- something
more consequence to me to know who lives more.,

-i

4
d
c
U
r ,
r
i
'


rt
I

80              AL    ITfl;Oil, THE CHIED OF THE ORD.
"WhomP" slghed4;Raynor,«,r  ~ete lUls ft~Sceu                erai
"Aletiw ?" answered .ydraba4 ,;yet no be arranged. I aaniouhath e ean to 
sofi .                               hol b       ade niti orshtty-eigt houra at
ou have caught me, _ Stau!" ;4e4 Ra -the  furthest.  witan yorty-eght hu  t b
nor.                             bs tn hereier-u?"r
"iYes, Europeant                     e habo
wnig younot, ge you~back't yoursfall."
or raher o, yur sl~ehess:et~t be o. Trust myself in your hands
" Thanks for the;gft' retorted Ita  yet,, agp~efaithu} n,,oget that, ry
Ironically. "In co sin.mto nmy own "I bear a'y mai.Wlnnexf yu ee
pleasures, you indeed 'iveme to the .devil, my life, aimatite' hro r t o emoe
But these girlsP They iaunxtm.  omls. certain i0ttthtrt;o..soemetes.a  dha  tkn  sesoi. «  means. I die not easily.
tresean matl( ave een possessiOf y   DP not for .a moment...,."
imgitione, wde wl me n est, daynor"Make no, protestations 11" Into~~pd
Pact   es" w    wkeyetanother; comn- [ydrabad, scornfquly. "Yuke   pe
"1Said I not thatY"              my hppen:;x nor. need YOU "trouble ywurse
" Wo.,but Raan sholdabout the f ture. When the hourcoayto
"hop bng,: aansholdaknww at lae~crraway ndstress and maid, trust in Tlac.
ape o already to     ain with you." As for miffdonoous
OanY roid~mewi hrs' me little for ,thenex two_ days.   aeo
"Can ouproid m wih ores and two thought it  my e ence orTpreenoe
bold, Cruety fellows P"              When iot  ecsary  enfor yo o esee- o
«         { Y, ~will find me atyourelo." e mn o
"Meark yu, E'ydra °4  Ty must not    "I could alogS wear to tels 1 nt
beefminate and loitering- rogues,, but firmnteredBrcg wdear tels.  nt
and hardy villains, who ,an ,look, a ~uropeneYo'l anta  lsu  o  orhui
straight in the eyes without tfear or favor, and added .the native, caresly.f"osafeborea
who are as familiar with thiejr weapons as whete your maraemay Abae rreat
*with their own Sc  teeth"          your leisure,"     nyb     ragda
"uhare wi thn my reach. lRed .they','  e poonedtewr."a         "i
been made, for "you, they could not be woresueha m I~aan th regiordue sart"-e, ain
cons for tabe  to  ou e ecr 6  he .  ,  T e  r  h  a tepped  one a  serpent.  There  was  a
soenes of t Jun  anThKTigertrembe atsold  dpee  tn~light in his eyes that
T 8Ksithe ae   ac ndsi'n   ilcrnd wsike the glitter Ofsteel.,
Tashue ~erhuntj"ecanmd t  mger.u4,ahwed;,,: dwalkedI from hm  -i.
"6An'heeyni" lieAr   aoeg' die.. peled by a seet: teortathaoudm o
"Anusd'tersricswlot  you aotherovercome. When he      thatgneahew cesno
thuand runees" added t        iatv ,  he looked for Hy aad,butne afh acsp
hant so mneto thusad rpees : tan'. Ipeared. Surprised by the circumstance, he
haventwarso m~anyt saetavwir. ,. went back ,and searced among he trees,
foringaaeo htfcA aep re: and was fnlyobliedto'netemstr
al paperioyou.to sign ;.whichisnuo more nor a hd finalyitd,tolethmyer
lesthan an order on the x. abob, your, father,"  Neerd  a ntevwosrSeyaftd
ilydrabad drew apprfo        rast hiwehsldunu      btrvev  o
with the utmost coolnss frayor hstareat h                           vehVdutdhi  i lt' ce
him in wonder.          Y'ugiw a daeeinat his sel e rfat e xecte
"It is no Sa 1Ctaic boxl i" laughed the; na- tpnear t'e~, ssel aug,-rahicerexmck.d
tvon"I want no more ,of sour soul. than ~ing, W nhiso eim~es ldoavoc. Wt
ctained In the rupees. ere is a ,pen ; his dislike o h  atv,'u ersttio itdea
sign 1"                              w       ofal theilng ti, 'supesitiousndeadx
Raynor Racglrdle tookthou a"er. d eated two o   'aclatonan farex
found it in 'date ibrm. u s and trcem bed whihc  PO~n frces, -fromi neither ,of
when, he .received =:thp pen r ~Hdaa.teltehe e saj~,        nlecdb
$ee creln hrom ; at t     dbotto  ofth lwe, he tl ought;tofl'fomthe bungay
draft .-             t-t'       f h  out    f('erartersan
Yorobserve," al ddydrald, "th.at Ot n                        s
dated a week In adane, whpeew                  liPju:i
from taking advantage .of .yourfoten s-e,    (% nIas  R M
aendedrwing the aney pfor thte service is 'None ofd  or Raubds
redre., ,todth                            haa    terni's housel~old unde
"Your  honesty,".ret rteRaynor,veystomsthecret Vfava senus.
dryl, "Is remarkable, -and ia= little less than had mtro ceubl ted   ,agr 'b  PsuWcone
your foresight ! Now, that matter 'be26,.noad _nibed sh ape. Efvn ianh  was+1g.

ALETIIE; O0, THE    GILl) O    TiHE (Oli).
,ot~tof te  aner   which his wound wvhether she know$ it or no; Mlcet asked
h nrn     h~aad been tampered with ; nor had lie a clear wardd y, If Ida~ Macgregrorhad discovered so
vie  o te sbjcttill Alethe qnihtened, many bright qualities in avana h assle had
him. ; fthe b knavery of Ildraba d and the done. She had watched, da within the, closest
complicity  of Bracegirdle were gradually, un- attention ;4 but that young lady, was, self-con-
folded to him by'her, after he had 'slept, and_ scij us and siiqh a model of "prod ety that tit
was free from pain and anxiety.          was the hardest thingjIniithe iworldt  ee'
The revelation  as no4 so starllng to him, raine her mental tt  I  eient ; herish-
howeverS, as -to:Zda Macgregor, -who, received ed Mender sentiment . rLpitnaifaS
it with the utmost coast  -on. The at- -agh, she was muchtoo ~Proud and sensible to
tep take, life b y a maethod so cruel anid display them inaunbcmgmner
cowardly, indicated a degree of wickedness The !daywasvery   diset r n  h
Sheocnevf                             gefti~on a rdi  fi  dii dared not communicate hi, astounding than sicwas remd to Sheit. The-tpromis.
development to her gnuardlsn, lest his bnpet.. Ing  change, in bis: coed1 o  gv~erra
heaosifsol bigsitjudgment' on the relief.
heofsthec m       elb' did she feel at  Near thle -close of 'the ,day, ,; etlie tripped
liberty toe wi iiathhold ; t fro nirafelicent.  Into the gar den to inhale the pure' ar, and
Toward Alethe, thie brave girl who hadthk calmly of the Incidents oftheliasttwen-
peented the' catastropheMl.   greor   -forhus       laeide      vrpoln,v
ft the desert gratitude; and had. her es- and vigilant, seize d up   thevopportunitye
scimntel    y ther:meais b which she had, and approached her as, h b chance. She be-
gandpossio       fteplot which had held hia~vance with ,-neither; terrr not-
been by hiding herself Ini the hollow trunk of.iudity..  nowjngthe ma n i  i ert h
a banyan treeandhe'vil&amp;.the conversation 'believed thiat .she -possessed an advantage of
that passed between  Brace' die and Hydra-'xiotrllig impo tace."
ba;in consequence" a lihshhad made    RBaynor thought he would try the' suscepti-
such           ar extonsto baithe Iliy      f the maid, hopingshe wouldprv
alotfrmteonanMeertb.more kind#,han the mistress.
Barnabas Hutton- was too fatIM-and de-   " rThey cal you Aletheg" he s aid, with a
serving n~t to be taken 'into her 'confidence ; condespension f at he: well knew how to as.
and as soon as Kavanagh ws able to. con- , -sme:.
vrewithout detrimnent, the Who e s'bject' "T'hose who call me, call me Alethe," she
was freely discussedfwith him- *s.nswd.
"i  oet r    aso    uhexcited, that it',"'ou woiglhthave been cled 'Lethe; for
required all tho. persuasive powers, of tl~e' dour ey' s are rivers of light, whose waters,
thee  omied to preyent him fromn taking ,onceImbibed, may well rendcr one, oblivious
instant vengeance, o  ofI,thoh assass ins.  to -  se.
After several cabhnetxmeethnga, held i   What sLethie ?" beasred:
asah's chamber,~It :was toniciuded'to let "OQne of the rivers of held," answered Ray-
the matter rest til the aowing ;ay =Bar- nor, "whose waters produce forgetfulness of
niaba~though at rt. pp5Od t9th mn~Sure,, the past."             { d7lte    n
was at length Iihrdult consent, bya few.,"Driesknotobime Netu   d    ode i
words from Alethe. ;              .        rnlng voic eatr    a   o, oy    ol
Not only the Maor, but' M lice. talowas =" _ ay, ;:fair ertreaynof  .t  ol
mystified by the proceedings                ~:~vng'  ateQog  htf~e~leswr     tr
room. They were tiio  F.tisfe te  tuntllIdwadas l,.dYsdut~~    nti'rsod
in  person assured  tieri  ha  teP.t~~ ws "  udI'avut      ~~~   t~  t 'rso   d
doing w e ll , a n d 4e si r$to b1e a ttenddo n l y ;ala e th e , witha ,Fn iPtuu so  h
by Barnabas Huttoi an, heaself; , that Alethe head;'
hdplied' sqine native remedies that  were   Thodu artlike opium r  barjshees , thatIn
acting wof ai~ ar             and i other .to icatse   brai a taciiates ~theon
thing a                                                               ey '   sea.
Meicntwas       " oal 4rentalt    "e.'   a             _ pihr pumnr-hasheesh!"si
Her imaginatio i had  encap v tedby Neal she, curling ,e i  ihcnep."ot
avanagh. She could foot hezaelfcleine hia  y 'qases, and Wtelhr she isa drug ; as
feeinn owrdhl. , She t    ht, him a for mei j;sho'the:4Itugyo  at     a
heerig o  ad .  hmn Who_  nke ,-waa  exzu ut o e power over you,;,,and ,that is.
hris in a fair wayt love im  eicent for ourde       Qmz;:
furthere; She 'saidwith   a h rl, to her-  eatcannota d erataiyop, dream!- A U eec
sef:"iei hnsomne L" Te woman who Those iropcees4hOeamylscn
says within herself, to herself:."This mni-iv  oti° utbis.
hadsome!"1i already two thirds in love,   "T   thee they can give neither." She

AiK

F 'P
r      r         I
f   .    \\         7
J
i
.
k
\
Ji
r
h
,
ii


82            AtEPHEI; O  THE VaILD O? THE CORD-
paused'before hii and- 'loed up It6 IEI -6ld, nihave aright to'e4tct different-t eat.
face. " a'Leave neshe-l4ned  aId -go to inent."
your master."        P 4          "You have-  gt to be scourged from
"  mI have -4o masteitiI 1 P %pied aynor,-hence-With rods, 1ike a cur that has turned
with hauteur       ! ra          aid bitteniits kasterP'-cried Alethe, swelling
"Yod hae aiunist 'ad hide'name IN  f with indignation
brabad said Ale pi 1efn           "' Alethe ! Alethet" lnte oseid Melicent"
+- Yba haveto  e, 3iefmfie lt -r"Mai   n-eistress, X  o  o  the we-
fou think" 'i"eJlkinW heaghd16taken  hess of tis azibut'ie tnepis near when
trrpri, anidCdffI hisf . "Whatd lotVbhe sha llbeyiifedd, ,n4 you shall see him
you -56tthisdHydhbad?? basked. - -ashe is"
" Enough toa einde'9hiirhtoik 'eeoui  --Iwill6rde :ighorse; [is Rainbll,-and
to make me hiid4err whe  e le'r  dylevea t du  yiurnho pitable roof!" pro-
enough to make'fis kep ut bisyn tted'Raynoi.-
swered Alethe,'                       methNeahiestnessa met r  Bradede,-that-the metthatthe
"Bah i he is but tregng juggler."--  tte sh  so far thata. As a  est,
a "Ilenow ot hat 1ere ts d    ri  otarei  h6rrdiabino prov 'ng
within hih. ni ic, 'lietpnehcled'' e  you fre s$itypasiohi: of love-naking
ingergiand I   otr: ala pntehid&amp;  o , irtf'chance tokee.
re, ot.d- ueaf Ii le            Bridlean  At aigef dk ethe best of it
z:Byacegirdle inv4W~ar s sudd6Ad. lM aid M icent,a softeiliatory tone.er
us not iasltedbreat lid's  - e Al   °Braegidoe; e1i-threatening instant
Adabad,c"he id  itd; lidftt  Wil  fyidepartiere Witr}dre
eebithereenenreasoanbdleith
choice uscklf toitour etsaqedllith opf C$ n  adpers
feeling, unwarned by thehtfupite is  ieft iTiMdhef
o 'hcas rejectedhpiei t'I we  J ahan  "Aoetlienid'a's'aiabold,when Brace-
her-slave.- Tha t'eted -dsco xedloveI g adled g  m'rie" secret' Share
o ff er  to  y o u .  A us  ,.it  l  d we    will  f l y * !th a t, s e  e   it s  Rod et bbsi d u lg en t  m istress."
g        heer,ts d to, e  r ip d -ds e lie and The th- d e'sbento
distantgretrstm eneitherler ofinalie  I " be h rte' ibier  hrunreasonableoith
shall reach us, to disturb our tranowtatftin  1 sigandliperionsmoods Mel--
dash the-lahed fdaprlandsdde -o  ."1cent'soiceas epersuasive. Afthed
" A delightil picture ! 'Tis;a' 'p Ifissedyher0hand.
-speeh "could " ,ehavei eetoi to  otaa abnesha sister and a friend.
mistretrsse.at a,      f   sf        haveheldfl fw eit'- ilkenfetters.My
" Sthe has heardltneplied mrelicenthere" Aiete'Ptee ht r en ikstesmt.het"
self, stepping from behind a clusor of vith e-hajd  reehei si ther breastlook-
"MAnd it gives inin^to Isaeured kuw e pthat de  'da.
. acegi rdhli'e'd " dit mnot ph er- usectg hihed: r.dIseta-
riealally ainjuredryme Fe           h    do               t
She laughed lightlyand eded:"    "           it. #hin~nl  ehde
"Mr. Braeg ibf- maid-sayere ', atr hu.i"mwth'tie.  not afraid;
will not be so cruel as to say y a efe  b wewnote f .  ouoeedthat patriarch
will' bW d n seed ,hoW9b/ firyl ng4 tha dm e  a$ shall'hbe the end. of o
dstantVretreat   dpfliss;-    twaso
the girl be willin you can margyher her "haiet  iededd  idistites to the treea
without trdalest hI  ff;rn  othelpard' "r .T r'eehdsbe n-s thee aren't ofwi s
of'that longajt  bc   r    ae e       rhi the tall reass
"Mock on, Ms anbold !".sneeredce- aside,d c        atio thoot.
exo                            , e..P~ ~aei olbtP~i  e, 1drtTadund tthe oungt.
gdle -.'"WhehM h' RMYdfrm iat t hai-d Sspe'ctin here Hdabad, I asHa-
riveserhaps inghaied tdnibet- atd -d glisli  wh tafizcould otmyml
aent."                      ,el wathim, I     fwpte hiidi lf.Qer
a mey trhyourdi#app  e         re sl          h    oneday, in a
centhfer et of y   e   s Rn    "   o '" siden      some
"May it nevert'o  j"repatgOl ethe, 'a said t0 side thelf  p
with equal' earl  stiestQ"ih  te0 rarh'      b     ferea hile
added, lookmg "at"                eartatwelcepi
'=                                     lwelepdy both mistress  ## dcla d ' e#  % n1 t oge hie'conversation took
to defaIn you ,  teg   stea1  o tt. lde betee dr  and thyonE-
dark and git e d Edrabad°  nd fisi gihman hhcaeei"o      Du m nis-
a remedy for your diappoinnient."  ' tress."y
"As the guest of your , father, Miss- Rain-  " Go Of!" said Melicent,_ nervously.

1 p
\                  ,' A  1
L             1
1
1           ,
/
f
1
_   y
!    f
j'II
1


ALETHE; OR, THE CHILD OF THE CORD.

49
I

" Their discourse concerned Kavanagh, of
whom Bracegirdle was intensely jealous. He
bargained with Hydrabad to remove him
from his path."
"This seems incredible t" exclaimed Meli-
cent.
" The bargain was easily made. 'For one
thousand rupees, he was to drop into the
wound a poison so penetrating, that it would,
in due time, produce death." -
"I see-I partly comprehend, said Miss
Rainbold..
"I wished to thwart this crafty villain in
my own way. Knowing of one very learned
in the mystery of drugs and poisons, I lost
notime in seeking him; a journey that nev-
er could have been accomplished without the
aid of Mr. Barnabas and his elephant... By
the blessing of God I reached the hut of the
solitaire and procured the antidote. The
details of. the adventure I will relate to
you at some future time ; for the undertak-
ing was not unattended with danger.  I
had-warned the young Sahib,'before setting
out, not to have Hydrabad approach him, or
touch his arm; but when Ireturned, the-mis-
chief was done. . Hydrabad had stolen in
while he slept, and dropped the deadly agent
into the wound. His condition, this morning,
you can yourse1(recall to mind. I had sup-
posed nothing would transpire before morn-
ing, and was shocked and alarmed at what
I beheld, 'You know what followed. You
saw the wily Hydrabad come in. You heard
the words of Kavanagh concerning Mr. Bar-
nabas, and what he said when he came in, he
having been instructed by me. My mistress,
behol this vial 1" She held up the serpen-
tine vial. "It sparkles in the red rays of the
sinking sun like the souls of a hundred dia-
monds !"
" Truly, girl, it is like concentrated white
flame! And so you dropped a drop of this
glittering fluid into the wound?".
"I dropped it into the wound, my mistress,
and the Sahib lives."
"It is most wonderful! Why was this
kept from me?".
" why does anything happen that happens?
Why did Hydrabad come? Why did your,
lover come? Why are all things as they
are? Because it is the will of God1" replied
Alethe, with humility.
" A strange reason, but perhapsagood one.
My impatient and impulsive nature might
not have been able to practice the necessary
restraint."  Melicent paused, then .laid her
right hand on the girl's breast.. " Alethe Y"
she said-her accents were melancholy..
"My mistress !" responded Alethes
"Answer me this question. No you hear
me, Alethe ?"
" I hear you, mistress.",

" Answer this question, and answer it tru-
ly : Does Ida Macgregor-does Ida Mac-
gregor-"
Melicent's voice failed her
Alethe kissed herJips, 'and answered:
"Yes, sweet mistress, Ida loves himI!"
Melicent threw her arms around the girl's
neck, and sobbed  lke a child,- Alethe felt
the hot tears raining on her,ec . -She drew
the exquisite .iead nearer and neger,;kept
her soft lips dn the white sorehead, and tp-
ped the smooth cheeks ,contig uouslywith
her little hand. There' was meffable balm
i the silent ministrationis of the girl. ,Never,
never had Melicent realized the, inestimable
treasure of human sympathy. She clung to
lethe as if every hope  everyr, happiness
washin her.
The girl knew the mockery of words, and
did not interrupt this passionate outburst
of emotion, She permitted ,her to weep
on, unrestrained. The paroxysm gradually
passed; the tears. ceased t6 flow, the sobs
melted to sighs, and the sighs became leng-
thened respirations.
She was presently calm again. Embrac-
ing Alethe tenderly, she lookedsat the setting
sun,  d said, with composure :
"Itis time to return. But before we go
back, let me see you enter the hollow of this
tree. Really, my friend, it seems impossible
that this apparently solid trunk can contain
a human being."
"You shall, see I" cried Alethe, smilingly,
and pushing away the grass, disappeared so
suddenly that Melicent doubted the{evidence
of her eyes.
No sooner had the girl entered, than with
a,terrified cry she sprang out.
"HafIz! poor Hafi 1" she cried, wringing
her hands. " This is the reward of his faith-
fulness. This is his recompense for his de-
votion to me !"
"What is the matter ?" asked Melicent.
"You are shocked and terrified."
" The poor youth,"' cried Alethe, ".Will
never watch more. He is dead ; he.lies cold
on the ground. He has been discovered and
slain. Stumbled over his body ; .I touched
his face, it was the fage of'a corpse. Hafiz !
poor Hafiz ".-
" Grieve not, Alethe. The sin of his death
is not your. Fortunately, here comes my
father.. His. face glows with kindness I
love my father to-night."
"Waiting for another tiger,. girls," cried
the Major,, "or have you set your caps for a
Thug?"
"Father, hasten! Some one has killed
Hafiz."
.-"Killed Hafizt  Where Is he ?" said the
Major,with a self-possession quite at variance
with the agitated ;feelings of Melicent.

a;
t,
(J   "
{
f4
I!
I   S
t
i
i

,
-                                                      .,
'
;1'   .     _                   r
T
'   1    1

fA
}  ^       ".
/                     v         s
f    ,                        yc,
'a  .  t,"  r         '
_.                                                      ,t

s


86               ALETHE; OR, THE CHILD         OF THE CORD.
"In this tree, which is hollow. Here-is the and immolate s
entrance. There may ytb      ier-steadimlt omebody. He wished all h
eHtae.  hee  aey yet be life in him. Stranglers in India had btoencadh
Have some one take him out," she answered, had that neck bn  hi u         andh
inafur  fexcit~ment.Wolhentwighanck
" Demme," said the Major, "if 'he's dead, o       ot wring that necu   dn
how can there be any life in him i Take him          CHAPTE
out ? Can't I 'pull him ,oi~t MyselfY Bless         CHAOTER In.
your body, I've carried wounded man      Alethe only.kew the mannerin whic
w   u   oren hdwd anty poundsght Ha     mz had met his death. It was evident t
J  out  m areand on one ofAng an atom. herthat he had hidden himself in the tree
se fhe   y on    fco eo u h   elthat   an  to observed movements o  Hdb    and
holds. And coee   wo  tha os if the  leg  had, unhappily, been  d iscovtered  and  stra  -.
demmre Ad!      eerk"woe pull out, ege by the crafty native. Wit     e      hkol
edge of the circumstances, this  e  a nat-
fg   rsomltay Maor, without more ado, ural and probable solution of the subject.
flung his military cap on the ground, and; The Major gazed at Haftz a long tune.
lieabeartoall fours, plunged ino othe,  Thepurple tackae
g ie eting o hidealld  eint  hleTaprpedtac aoud his neck filled hime
out, dragging poor Haf. presently bcked with peculiar horror. He thought of Ida,
"      "     h         -and was-more than ever grateful for her de-
"Dead I" o th te Major.   Demned liverance from a like fate.
dead!I I should like to know what, business"We
the boy has to be dead     hl    b what     Where is Hydrabad ?" he asked, ab-
have you got to say about t   ehis  o'ether Melicent nor Alethe could
hm Whtukdhim in here ?' In the this question.               eh cudasr
next place, how did you, know that he was '" I haven't seen thewi-yddvlsnc
killed and tucked in here? This comes of mrng. I      st sthiate yed devieiuce
wan'sbeen inquisitive, oI sos  I you denme ! Or, if I had a few faithful Sepoys,
hadn't been inquisitive, you, wouldn't known 'hanging  ol  ebttryu a'
anything about it, and I shouldn't had om  had would be better. ButSepoys  s,'
feelings hurt, demnie !"  -           y be trusted now," sighed the Major. y'cNo.
h  Aerbe was showing me the hollow in boy is o be estedenow."(e
theboy oHfiz) " We have secreteene-
th  re"replied Melicent, "*hen, to her mies in our midst. S~aan is inhfetaddboyn our own
"uTha bst the way dyIf there's anything  household. Those who eat from cur  late
aebltht il s ur t      yin i got  and drink' from or cup deceive us, H ow
disreeamne,d  eirb   ure tofind itoutl h bongshall these things be ?"
have been shocked and Hfno     y would    Is there noy aof
slept in the patriarch," bowled the Major.  drea rhulcn med u       erom his m
"This is very said. "Look at him, father !" child. There is a circle of fireroid uy
"I am looking at him. Can't see stab, jab, India is abandoned  ofpine arnd ue.
nor shot. * A person ought to be stabbed, Te  sr  odned torapinere   wavendmus-
jabbed, or shot ! If he isn't ,he sta  , has no right eTwnovr  heads.  an  mder-
to die a violent death."  nr             ta  ly rov yourthat wgma sepoy waves
"Look at his neck," said Alethe        conceal from you that we are rosafe faer
frWhat the devil should I look at his neck been dreadfl dor an hour- There have
foru bCome; don't dictate to a man that's Delhi. lhe revolted naae Cawnpoorand
monednewn ah e,swod iSha. lsuch through the country like hordes of ravenous
nonsned     otase, o       e.Besm        iger. The European residents are being
body! Here's a regular welt round the neck. swept, away with fearful hat.Th 7ice
Th e  p o r  l a d  ed  b y  o d  s11,h           u r o e  hr s  e s  o f e c ira
"T poThug  exclaimed alethe-        narrows upon us. One of our servants,
"A Thug !" xaied leth.            whom I can yet rely on, brought me tidings
SThug       aed    ocieraed the Major,fhis afternoon of new humanities  The in-
somewhat awed. "This accursed country ton. They ma be h       urging cmhiwrec-
ought t be sunk; and I'd sink it, if I had may be here to-ight  Itomor   h
the management of it. If you want to kill a that I think."     is of you and Ida
person'shoot him, stab hin, poison him; but, "Would not the Governmentifi
You'repale  'ela strm  round his neck! your situation, send some nli    knew
Mel wahedt                                        soldiers    yo
tobr re-
big pale ? Might as" well laugh as cry !""  " If they were nati ' olir,  ypo
The Major ground his teeth together, and  t  u  agristedfbilessene
shok hs fst intheai. Hs hnet nature would be increased ; for the Sepoys1 still in
was aroused. He' wanted to draw his sword ,the Service of thPoenen     antb

ALETHE; OR, THE CHILD OF THE CORD.

37

sted out of sight of their masters. The? The  had reached the veranda, and Bar-
ie  d n ot  of eight  of b their ma tr ghe  nabas hutton  came  out to meet them.  His
et of   iti  troops behind them. We ready ears caught the concluding words of
u neither reach the little garrison at Cawn- Melicent:
oor noithe roe iegled gart nLucknow- "Right, Miss Rainbold, right! iI'm glad
or nor. the heroes asheless as possible. 'Lethe's told ye about it, and that you've got
eal Kavanagh has dot himself eaten by a courage enough toellsyour father ithois a-
ger, and lies on his back in a miserable regard to og  otl consequences. yorftheruthoisuMa
ae; and there's nobody to fight but the tall jor, the critter tried to pizen the Lieutenant
merican, Bracegirdle, and myself.      ist out o' jealousy, and spite, and internal
"Don't count much on Braa girdle."   wickedness generally  But he didn't  e
"Ahh'hosdcobti he ?" Major do it. You see this little gal, don't ,yeMa
inbold  laughed.  W ound ed,  is  he,  by ,  Jor Y ?  H e  pointed  at A e heun i te
hose two howitzers of yours? Can't carry eaedoalover.  Ytou wasee that sort o',ma-
he works-can he? The dog hasn't mettle aerial  t y        ,was on hand, and took the wind
enough. When I's a young man of his age, tra htwso          ad   n   oktewn
wouldn't have 'abandoneda besieged for- out o' his sails quicker'n you can say ',dem-
ress on no account. I'd laid under the walls m!"i
six'months, carrying my lines of circumval- 'Demme 01' exclaimed Rainbold.
nation nearer every day, demme ! I don't "That's cbout E pluribus I Demme's
believe the boy knows how to work his bat- pretty mch the talk for the times. I ain't a
elievthwprofane man, Major, but I've no objections to
or will he ever learn," replied :Melicent, unii w  ye in sa     -, si
, seriously. l  eee                    "Demme ! repeated the  Major, setting his
"sIsn't. he good at a" short range, eh ?" '  teeth hard together.
"He's good at nothing  interposed Alethe,  "Deg m  e, echoed Barnabas, with becom-
"but bad at everything."                 n spirit.,"eh     re t   ie   i~H
"Come, come," replied Rainbold, pleas- dropped   a  drop  o' some kind o' con-
antlyomer come, crepnade is enuh. She founed stuff into that tigerchaw, which
satl have no reenforcement. Raynor shall was worse nor aker-fortis bled down, and
have fairly, and if he can make a breach went into his system tH
and  storm  the  citadel, like  a  al n  el w   'sm lp x   o   oy          tppoe
let him do it. Don't you open fire on him, that an aninile so big as my Mthseala
-un.Wyou do, I'll take you hr hand myself, should have anything tBu wih s i a!l an
twillfeneI                               thing as a drop o' pizen.Buhed!An
will,demmres i   n       ik her fa to he had some'at to do"-he glanced archly
him," My misttered Awillnever tossingher heead-  at Alethe"-with something a  ttle larger nor
"This is against all authority and disci- a drop o' pizen, and a wounded sight more
pline. I tell you the siege shallgo on by wholesome."
regu ar  ppr ache,  a d  n body shal  m d-  Tell  m e  how  the  boy  is, now  ?"  interrupt-
regular ap roaches, and nobody           ed the Major, in a great heat.
die or ma neM          cm                "He's B   luribus, demme !" responded
Father," answered Melifatal deceived in Raynor Barnabas, with unwonted energy.  "But he
Bracegirdle. I regret to tell you that heis couldn't been E pluribus demme if it hadn't
utterly unworthy of your friendship, trust, been for he."
andhopitliy.He has neither principle   " Confound it ! will you try and get at
and hospitality. H has neiandr-"       something?" blurted the Major.
They   e       ng to ard the house. The   We're gettin' at the pizen, and the anec-
MJajor topped and looked searchingly at his dot entre tiznabout  s  aid aeds n ele
daughter.                          «     phan kc    n o  iena an anedotes goe
"ahese are grave charges," he said; "but together, you  ow  lie a man an  is wan
youarea grlof ens, elicent. If Raynor which callers neutralizes each other,- and
ha  committed murder, you couldn't speak counteracts each other in every way, shape,
much worse of him. He is the son of an old and nature .  Brin out     t Maelh,' see.
friend. Don't talk about the son of an old So Ibouo I made hM kneel. Then we
friend, unless you have reason.          se- she  o  I   ackian    Ten we
" Major," ,r eturned Melicent, smiling ten- scrambled on his back, and scuttled away
d"ry Mao  tk her father's hand ;  the like fury arter the anecdote, though, mind
sonlyf an od tda deceived you! Raynor ye, I hadn't no more idee that I was going for
sonoanl fnd   dceiverit, Hydrabad, an anecdote than nothin'.  We whisked
are leagued together in evil. But for Alethe, along astonishin'."  Thereu wasn't nothn' but
would now be past medication   avaagu tell how many tigers, lions and other am-
.
r

,        .
' ,,
5
}
:
I  ,
I
s
'+.
(+
,
.


38                ALETHE ; OR; THE CHILD OF THE CORD.
mile kingdoms iwerun down on theway;"Eyes,'mind yel" He glanced at Alethe aw
'twixt a hundred waginloads, probably.'' unusual  significance. -"'Thee was Cn  o  esngaltl  atr -M.eanl  otsra  n y wsaliers
Ht?"Cn't youtget aoralite fstrw M.horalya ot.tea         my character; I
Hutton ?" queried the 1ajor, who preferred wish to the' Lord folks could be made wi
practical facts to immaterial details.  out soft streaks in their characters." th'
"I'm goin' as fast as the elephant can get  Barnabas mused on thatsubject a mome
over the ground. As I was sayin', on we 'Then, 'to the Major. sujea       e
went, at elephantine speed, till we come to  " You'll shoot, of course ? But it's too
the hut, cave, or den, where the great Moon- easy for such a rogue. Can't you call' one or
she burrowed. We alighted from our con- two of the natyves, and run him up some.
veyance, and 'Lethe popped in upon the where ? There'svplentyd ' trees, you know."
Moonshe, and was out o' sight a - good spell. " No, Mr. Hutton, I cannot hang him. He
Presently I heerd a little scream-the pret- is the son of myfriend a"ng
tiest little scream that ever come to my ears' 'Major Rainbold grew  verthoughtful.
--and was mighty anxious.               Another feeling mingled withr ihanger.He
'"'Push in,   ethuselah' sez Ind     began to doubt wheth    e could shot. th
crushed the door immediate. Spring bbe fiin' in. Isonaf his frie.Therhe cwashaopainfu
see-"                                   str uggle within. Banbsprevdi.
"You need not tell what you saw. Mr.     Majo     id harnab   perceived i t
Barnabas," interrupted Alethe.  " I rather with  Y      'tdo   , I see how t'
you would not tell what you saw, Mr. Bar- There's a notion of honor inside of ou that
nabas."                                 is stronger than, your just resentment. I'll
" Jest asyou say, Miss; it's all E pluribus take thematter off your hands. He is not
to me," said Hutton.  So 'we'll 'slur over the son of my friend; and I thank the ood
the cord-business, and come ,to the gray- Lord for it!1 What's he fit for, Major ? Is he
bearded old Moonshe at onet, who was fit to live ? He isn't. Is he fit to die?  As
proper loth to diveup the anecdote, or coun- fit as he'll ever be if heroes on as he's he-
ter-pizen, and: it was only by threatening ' him  gun. Teqikr's etoetebte
wth death by Methselahthat'w  uT e         hhe quicker     esgtroged, the better
wtdetby Mtuelhta we succeeded man he'll die. So, if I find him, I'll, just say
eventually in gittin' 'a little crooked bottle, to him: -'Mister Bracegirdle, 'lou and I are
about as big round as  'our darter's smallest to have a shootin'-match. Take this re-
finger, and as white."                  volver or' this 'un, for, they are loaded pe
You've made a needless1'long story of cisely alike, and hold six shots apieced-
t Mr. Hutton. You mig have said that station yourself yender, and'when I've count.
you went somewhere and, got an antidote, ed three, blaze away at me, and do your best
applied it in time, counteracted the poison, to hit me, for I shall hit you, you may de.
saved Kavanagh's life, and ended the whole pend don't ' Words to thatypurportshall use."
thing in three sentences;" retorted the Major.  Hutton had taken the pistols from Rain-
s Demme, sir, you want the bluff brevity of a, bold, and' stood with them  in his hand, as
sode'"                               quietly and composedly as if the purpose he
"Hold on, Major !   Stick' your sword meditated were an everyday affair.
there. Wasn't you two hours, yesterday,   "If you propose to treat the villain in this
workin' in ditches, trenches, handlin' scalin'- manner," said the Major, "you'll do him too
ladders and mountin' breaches, and nakin' much grace, and put your own honest life in
racket enough with musketry and'artillety to jeopardy."
stun a nation, when you might a.said, 'I took  "Life," returned Barnabas, "is alleys in
the fortress', which would told'the story in danger. Neither you norI can git out o' this
world till we're wanted in another."
" You've cornered me, 'domino!'And you  "You but waste time," said Alethe ; " I saw'
are an honest man, which is more than I can the Englishman ride from the bungalow half
say of anybody here but myself." The Major an hour ago. A rogue must be caught before
drew acoupleof evolvers from his pockets,- he can be punished."
and began to examine them."Go in; children," said the Major, 'kindly.
What you goin' todo with them, Major?" "Mr. Hutton and I mustt      i
askd Brnaas. '         '      gether and devise, if possible, 'a method of
"If you're a brave man, I shouldn't 'think warding off the many dangers that beset us.
you'd ask " retorted Rainbold, tartly. light may at any inoment become necessary;
"B pluribus ,Major !" 'said Hutton, nodding and Heaven ony knows whr  ecnfy
his head, knowingly. "That's right. Iwant- for safety."      where we can
etogo notebsns permiscuously this      Melicent and' the girl entered the bunga-
mornin'; but the gals wheedled me out on't. low, and the Major and Barnabas peed to
The gals can do most anything with me, I and fro in theveranda, conversingearbnestly.
guess. I allers succumb to muslin and eyes.neige                           y.

ALETHE; OR, THE CHILD OF THE CORD.              .o
"It being closely besieged, how did you1
CHAPTERXIV-                  leave"it ?" asked the Major,,caelssly-
THE sEPOS",May. it please- you, sahib, we have' not
Suddly Baab          t          from  been in Caw oor," said the Sepoy,touching
the veranda and ran swiftly toward the j  o1his cap.e "heerinarri s on  i owag
le. The Major, surprised at the action, fod-dtorelieveiatheaduoerieydmnous
owed at a slower pace ; but haddoteproce d  tnd deed y  ou    the mutinous
d -far, when he heard a;pistol-shot,, speedily   eands disa paeted, and that you wereithoallhaste.
followed by another.                     ne:n safe, dispttultmatter, Maoto ei e and
"Iacaughtaaeared ina  moment he said, deceive cur desperate countrymen ;u, by
"s Io od a the     of ou     as mornm ,   the will of God, here we are."
Sas Iatood in the, veranda. .$ewamon        erinmrtlflosto!"adth
ed on is horse, ridin' moderately along. I."Very fine martn with the spokesman of
run artery him, as you see, lhinkin' it was :,.Major, shaIkI as able to take the field
ood time to settle that matter. When I got the party.ho   wa  toae he than
godow  hrebhe palm4 " es,  I catched.eight, again, I1 should .want no greaterh norh than
Known there by thepal   e, I       cle 1 taconinand a regient o f sc  tg .o
of him .agin.He was setting' on his ~imieyo cmmad oar    tert ofc {.straigtol
a talking' with two wild-looki' bmenIcalled dier-khe bo quarter ofriht, cQ i anc
to him to come to me on "partic'lax business; yondrtotequrevefnl az   o  tan
hich   turned tail and started  . tell them it is my order that eyouat
antad alop whni set  pe o shots ar- best that canb found, bopth t eat 'and to
at  a all.op, when I sent a couple o sho
ter ha m.jest as an jntimatioofo  y .godil  'rk.
and to keep him at. a proper distance;,.,or, I  The Sepoys, stiff admltr,'akdlk
tell youesaor, the further he is from you automatontoward the huts o the servants.
and yours, thehsafer you'llobe." h f Rainbold watched them till they disappear
"Iam of the same mind," answered Rain- ed.  ad     or.                '
bold. " To tell you the truth, I am greatly asked  " Is th    y bleosin, Mr. Hutto e
astoishd at myownblindniesa respecting akd  I  hsabesn     rohrie?
astonished at imyni                     Major," answered Babra°, " it don't
Il el you, Mor, where the mistake seem to me E pluribus.Itdonut.ldti o   That
was: you took him on trust.. If he'd beu eGeneral Havelockshould think of a wound
the son of somebody you knew nothing about,redocre  s   o hy le devisand whtl
yudhad your eyes open, I'll be bound." surr                          pfott.  ondedby, hs ayfdeilsannoa
"Exactl 1i" saidilainbold. "We are often- man' to apareilghtin  i  a  o t ysfotto
dc            other  o   than ourselves ward   awnpoOr, is some'at to metha
One ought to follow the dictates of his own quite clear."d        s    i
common-sense, instead of taking bforogranted  i"oubspea  o  n doubts," sa
what remains to be, proved."            boldginav justroblenstI havenoha
Rainbold had scarcely -concluded tbis sage- have-just leit us, I have, not siticleof faith.
observation, when six Bepoys, with musket at  y poor girls! .myil bi'hn oorrlsxt anabas-"
shoulder, and pistol ar~ididgger at side, deftl  ehl-u hshntfittn    nhsoc
S     s       quarter of the usual quavered-" They must not fall intothehands
ed froth tohe rounds and marched with a 'of the Sepoys I"forbid"
.vr so  the gr t    e r    of the bun-  " Heaven,-in its infinite goodness,  -
very soldier-like. aing the Mronthe saluted .exclaimedBarnabas, withmoire feeling than
a, lwhere,y seemg h  aRainbold :ad givenhim, credit for.
e in miloasy stye, B a      ispered' sooner; hoot 'em with this right hand, than
Ri6ep close to e,pBarnabas o Whealed se 'em thus aussed ; than see .em theusaban-
b   is  t          1 e to me, for doned to degradation and slame,'and c elty
.   bres b   t-   hat    setollowseen-. terble I"tenner
Then stoingforwaad and returning their  ure  was  o"     ile  .        der
salutebe said:ig                       was really dign  ed and noble.
salute, hersaids  e   my    e felloWs'?"  "It were indeed mer  to  ie
onaansw      ere ,oneof the eoys re creatures death to save oem ;I n outrage,
spcilly,«"your friend, General Haveloo  : t nifworst mesI t11 o dors, wil-rus
sent us oyou,   hnkn   in these 'troubled you,nim fiend I"  rnt dr o it!I ,,The nin-
etistyou    t wnd"            e       affalenlove that's wi m      l   n
times, you might want us'r a rdand weapon sooner pon myself "said Rainbold,
a i   e oGener  reple'ar ,anbod  coarsely.
digisndissicions.hedInat Rco ldi-f Mqjor,"crid BarnabasBvv t ~a tear on
disguising his sap cion-oor" 'his cheek, "you're                  Snlurl Si ' mellaand
Closu lbesieged" replied he who had  ou, my hearty    a i    gsh e
spoken.dw                                                    d


40                ALETHE ; OR, THE CHILD OF THE CORD.
and-chop for you, as long as I can move a intimation of danger ; an  announcement
muscle! And not for you only,-but for them, which was received: without visible emo.
you know. For them ! Them is-too tender, tion.
and sweet, and handsome,,to be'clapperelaw-  'These preliminaries being settled, Hutton
ed by such sooty devils; Theybe.  Yes! I and'his duimb companion walked slowly and
see where you ar6 Major Rainbold. I'm- monotonously the rounds, In a circle noton
glad I'm hereto help ye. , As 'soon astham  ly comprising the house, but the sentinels
critters have eat and drunk,- station 'em one and a .portion of the grounds., The patient
in a place, at different points; within a given Methuselah went surging uncomplainingly
distance of the bungalow. - Thete's only six: on his beat, with his master by' his side, ht
of 'em, at the most ; andin Partin' 'em you first, but, anon onhis broad back.
destroy their -strength. The story about be-  The dim'night-hours slipped silently away.
in' sent by Havelock 'hasit a word'struth About midnight, whenBarnabas :was paSsing
in't. Scatter 'em about in this way, and the hollow 'banyan; which was within the
leave the 'rest to Barnabas Hutton and his orbit of his beat,.he-was surprised at behold
elephant."                              ing thoefigure of Alethe, andinstantly let
'*Ah, that elephant," said the Major, hitnself down from-his lofty perch.
thoughtfully.                             "Beqhiet, Mr. Barnabas," she said. "Your
4" The same !" replied Barnabas; with pride. .voice is apt tobe'loud."
'"Methuselah is worth a'dozen Seboys, any.  "11 be whatever youbid me; Brownie,"
time. I have only  to whisper in one of his repliedBarn'abas. -"What bringsyou here P'
large ears to make him know what's wanted. I should think= you'd be afeared of your shad-
iHe s do-cile with his master but niistrustfiul' der, e'enamost. Occasionally I feel queer my-
of strangers: - His' rage is' terrific. 'Play him self;'and,'in fact," headded,with a sigh, ' I
.n trick, and seeif he don't remember it! iIf allers-feelqueer When I see your eyes."
I should say.to him, 'Methuselah, pull down  "Speak very low, Mr. Barnabas ! I come to,
this bungalow,' he'd tear it to bits afore you tell you of-the danger, I've carried arrack to
"could bring out your --upees 'Major, Methu- some of the men; and talked-freely of the En-
selah shall go the rounds to-night.'    gush. Theyhae'come to rob and to mur-
Barnabas took 'Ra'nbol by'the sleeve, and der ;  and  Hydrabad -sent them," said
added:           Z   3',                Alethe.'
"If you should iave to take {to yo r heels, ""Are you sure of this !" asked Hutton anx-
he'll carry you:ced, yqurs, with  much' iousi ,.
speed and safety as a steamboat or a train o'  " h  are my countrymen; we speak the
cars. Now, 'ty friend, going and load all same league. Why should I not hear and        0
your fire-arms, and leave me 'outside a apprehend  "
while."   .                   "           "'You'should do both."
Mr. HuttqnI like your advice, so well  "Ihave done so, Mr. Barnabas. The men
that I shall follow it.", 'o the Major Went in; are to be killed, the women carried away.
leaving 13arnahas to take such precautions as This latheiork'of'Hydrabad"
his sharp -wit would suggest, and to[give  "The taWnydevil !" muttered Hutton.
'warning if danger seemed near.           " Thespirit of evil' dwells',In'him. You
CHATER ,   f        may call.hinSatan; and-do' him no wrong
CHAPTER XV.                 Mr. Barnabas;the foungEriglishman, though
YES,. R: R Ahii1          =bra ve, is unable to fight; ithe -Major can, and
The six native soldiers, having been ebn 'wiltfight; but it'is td you-that We must look'
'dantly supplied withfood, sauntered backto mainly for help.. If you:cannot save us, we
the bungalow in a fashiedort'mh lessmilitary had 'tte never been bcrn !"
than they h'ad come into-the prsehde of M 'But- yon; 'Iethe, have: nothin' to fear.'
jor Rainbold.  hey were 'reeived'by Batr- You arda native." -     -
orTh              eea                       aiiate'nabas Huttod and  elephant ; a eeptiO ."elilfaeo better than the. English la-
which, manif'estly,'did nhtgive' theifisatis-.  shdies;'  e replied, sadly.' -"I am not much
faction.'              '      Y.'    " like my people. I have become English in
Without mincing mater 'he atounde asdiined liabite ducatioi a sgcihtion, and thought.
control of theirmovements.' With MeOihuse- 'My skin is somewhat'dark, Mr. Barnabas, but
lah rolling lazily'at his side, he played eneI et' tWt circumstance will not greatly serve me
one place,another at another 'hnd "soon till. ii;tierhour ofanurder and cruelty"'
the six c *ei'dispsedof. "-e ended' this ."You are more English than IMiss Lethe;
highly military manduver' I "informaing the y s'use the Et' lish language adeal better
Sergeant who- commanded the party, that nor I can.- But  pose it comes' living' with
Maor Rainbold, witita few:English ends eddicated Iadies. Eddicated Hadies has the
who had anived watafrew;ngisreld seeepatonge,.Ilethe, yet Barnabas dies has the
ia the buglow, ready; to start up at the firsthear


 1

I

?.      .#
.         l                  ,r
y                        t.

-        ' y-   r  I'  )  "  i'  t,  , "' ,jv i

ALETHE; OR, THE CHILD OF THE CORD.            "43
Nothing could be ; truer, Mr. Barnabas, awful! I' can take you under one arm, and
than what you last said. But we are spend- clear a path for, you with the, other through
ing that which we shall perhaps' want, by an army of "menz. That's w at I can do.
and by. Melicent and Ida have Sent me Are you hearin' me," BIownie' "
to you.. They walk to and fro, wringing  "Yes, Mr. Barnab'as !"
their hands. Mr. Kavanagh has 'arisen    Her accents were marvelously soft and ail-
and dressed himself; he has his pistols in very. Barnabas felt as if a thousand notes of
his bosom, his left arm in a sling, and in music were thrilling upon: his ears simulta-
his right hand his sword. He is'wonderfully neously., lis honest nature kiew not what
changed since morning, He feels no pain. to do with its sWeet yettorturing burden. So
His cheeks glow, but not with fever; his arm  he let a watery drop or two run down his
is no longer hot and swollen, but his mortal round cheeks.
agony is intolerable. He paces his chamber,  1' Mr 'Barnabas, will you shake hands with
pronouncing continually the the names of Ida me ?":asked Alethe, modesty.
and Melicent."                            "Will I go to heaven 11" asked Barna-
" He ought to speak yours tOO," said Bar- bas.
nabas.                                   So he took the brown little hand, and after
The girl bowed her head meekly, and shaking it, kissed it. H Hfelt itinitely hap-
sighing, said:                         pier. Hedidn't kndw what made him'hap-
"Mr. Barnabas, I am a servant. Why pier, but he did know the ;fact. They stood
should the handsome European talk of one some time together, he holding her hand all
so humble."                            the while. Re"didn't take advantage of
"Lethe," replied  Hutton, 1uite affected, holding her'hand,,and so she trusted himthe
"There was some'at that pained.nie in your more.
voice when you said them 'last words. I  "I s'pose it's impossible ?' said Barnabas
don't know what it was, but it pinched me finally.
like the p'int of a dagger. Perhaps you don't "t may notbe," saidAlethe, gently.
know what I mean, Lethe P"               'he noo  shone very brightly, just then;
"I do! I  do 1" sobbed the girl. "I thank and the stars had awondrous contentment in
you most fervently:, I thank' you on my them.
knees, Mr. Barnabas ! Yours is the only    It's the $epoys, you know!" said Alethe,
voice that speaks to me s I would be spoken by and by .
to.'   asatmtn "                             ,   'e Seboys)1" responded Barna-
"No, Brownie, you don't mean that," an- bas, kissing her hand again. She drew it
swered Barnabas, sadly.- "You mean there sway, saying:
is'some'at in my voice that you wish was in  Y" ou won't jets us fall into their hands
the voice of another. ' That is what you wish, Mr. Barnabas V"
Brownie, and thatis what youmeaA. I know  "Not while I live l ,Not while I 'lve,
ou'd shrink from'tellin' on't; or lettin' it be 'Lethe! I won't be responsible for wiat
known in any manner; but the man as loves takes plate arter I'm dead; but while the
you ; the man as loves you true and honest ; breath o'life is' in ne, you won't fall, alive,,
and as loves you only;' and' as loves you the into the hands of them tawny murderers."
first and the last, can see it, and know it, and  'Barnabas' Hutton, with" his. disengaged
feel it."  ' ---                       hand, caressed the, trunk of .his elephant,
"Oh, Mr. Barnabas !" gasped Alethe.  lookedat the-stars, and then at the eyes of
"Be silent, my pretty 'nil Don't say nbth- Alethe. ,Whateverinight come, he thought
in' that you don't want to say. Don't$b be- , could neverbe miserable again.
frayed into an unguarded expression by me.  ,ani going bask," said Alethe, softly.
I ain't the man as would intrude.Not at'all ' "Mysoul will go WAth yoi," replied Bar-
-not in the least. But,'Brownie dear,'un- nabas," and rigmy body will go as far as the
derstand this: I am your friend; 'true and veranda."
tried, and constant, and undoubting, and to  "I shall tell, them how faithful you are,"
the end, and arter the end, if there is anything added Alethe.
carterr the- end. That's what  'am! That's  I care for the opinion of one woman,
what Barnabss Hutton is. And helhopaeito only," said Barnabas.
prove it."                              And so they parted at the ei-anda.
" OMr. Barnabas!"                     "He. never 'Sausuch a night before, did
"You say it pleasant. You're so good in- Barnabas. Henever expected to see another
aide, that you wouldn't care to hurt one's such night, did Barnabas.. ,JTey:never come
pride and sensitiveness. I love you deep and but once, 'such .nights! never!  Never !
true, as I said; but I shan't tell you on't; I Never! Few know it, though; very few
shall keep it to mydelf,hnigh about. But I'll know it, and none realize it.
tell ye what I can" do; I can fight for you  Barnabas went his rounds again, carrying


ALETHE; OR, TE ChILD OF T CR
iffOerenF ,.CORD.

ALETHE; OR, THE CHILD OF THE CORD.                        45
dren. There are but three or four able-bod.- of his sword, and his eyes appeared to be ni-i
led men among my serfs. Well, let 'em go t accountably busy with something on the
It is better to lose 'em than trust 'em."  door
"Far better ! Yet it would perhaps have  " es," said Kavanagh, with a sigh, "there
been stillbetter had you shot them before they is Alethel Of ,l1 men, I should be the last
started."                             to forget Alethe."
"'I didn't have that privilege, my boy!. "avan agh, ny by, you  ought to be shot
They'didn t have the politeness to announce from a gun, if.you forget Aethe !"
their intentions."                       Rainbold spoke with feeling., His eyes
" If you- have four male servants," said seemed befoggedand rather dim.
Kavanagh, musingly, "you may add just that  "My ,dear Major," added Kavanagh, "I
number to the Sepoys ; for, my word folr it, honor your sensibility. Never blush, for
they'll be the first to have their hands at your 4lethe., Her dark andglorious beauty is a
throat. Ah, Major, you should sesbtht shts thing to wonder at.. ,The- blood of India is
that I have seen! The hacking, angings, softened by that of England, if I err not, and
shootings; and mutilations ! We have taken everlasting shame be upon ina who blushes
the monsters while their hands were yet wet to own her b"
with the blood of tender women. Enormity "You're a lad after m ownheart; demme "
amed outrage have held high carnival. ' Euro- cried the impulsive  ainbold, seizing the
pean Christianity may shudder at the idea of young officer by his wounded arm and giving
shooting these miscreants from guns, from  it a jerk that nearly took- the life from his
marching them out to death in squads of tens body. "You're a man,,demme ! You're just
and twenties, from hinting them down with- a man, demme I Bring me somebody that
out pity, from slaying without judge or jury; denies it; bring him right al w
but those only who have witnessed the atroci- see that person    gIat
ties of the native soldiers can judge correctly  The excited Major give .avanagh's ,m
of the stern retaliation demanded."    another wrench. - s
" Spoken like a soldier, if not like a Chris-.' "Really, my friend," said the Lieuten-
tian," said Rainbold.                  ant,,wincing, "you are dislocating my ingur-
" Major," continued Kavanagh, "not one ed arm."
of those Sepoys must return to his compai-  " Ah," added Rainbold, "if my Melicent,
ions with the stor of the murder and outrage or my Ida-- But what s the uses?  There
of Major Rainbold's family."          isn't any tise ,,Why,,of course not1 What
"That is my determination. There 'are the deuce are you talking about? What's the
various ways of disposing of them., For in- 'matter, eh ?"
stance, we might call them in, one at a time,  " Nothing of any consequence': only that's
and whip offtheir heads."              my wounded arm that you've got hold of!"
"If they have the ferocity of the panther, groaned Kavanagh,-sm ing feebly.
they have also the cunning of the fox," an-  " Bless my body ! I've started 'the blood,
swered Kavanagh: "I doubt if one of the haven't ?.Demme, Sir, whgat;did you let me
number could be decoyed into the house, hurt you for ? Haven't you any feeling, Sir ?
alone. We do not trust them; they do not Dear me! let me call the girls. Girls know
trust us. My dear Major"-a flush of fever how to ,fi these things, Sir. Whigh, will,
darted into his cheeks-" you have priceless you have ; one or three i"
treasures beneath this roof. You have beau-  The Major's distress was ludicrous.
ty, innocence, and helplessness. They must  "handsome villain!" he added, making
be defended, though our own breasts form the dive at the arm. " Insidious allurer! flow
only rampart between them and the foe.' We have you repaid my hospitality ? What-with
are not to think that we have counted our en- Thugs, and what with tigers, and 'what with
emies in those six grim soldiers. We may Bracegirdle, and what with Ilydrabad, and
suppose that others are lurking in theIjungle ; 'what with drops and antidotes, midnight-
and when the flames 1 egin t stream from  journeys, mystery and moonshees, you've
this roof, they, by accident or through com- played the devil with my household !T'
plicity, willbe here, or rush to the spot."  "Dear Majoi.-
" Of course, I have thought of this. 'The  "I'll-sehd up Ida, you traitor ! My own
heart of a father does not sleep in times ,ike girl, perchance, ;nay have a random heart-
these. I have more at stake than rupees. ache on account of that tiger ; but she ias
There is my Melicent and my Ida-both my too much sense, and 'is too much like her
children ; one of the properissue ofniy body,. father, demme, to be dazzled by a mere acci-
the other of my affections. Let me be just, dental victory over a ,four-footed beast.
Kavanagh; let me speak of Alethe ; more. Either of the three is too good for a Lied.
m  child than you wot of."  '          tenant m the British Army; although, _if
7ainbold's hand rested quietly on the hilt- you insist upon it, I suppose I shall have to

44


ALETH;OR, THE CHILD;OF THE COg

I

o nassuo se hnase said I
of n  ssalt t sel islife dearly. The  itY
his, ountea ise: nature was reflected in "sIt
64 O  . 'Miss]
"0  Mr.' Kauag ?    : 'ecamdI
"   e    aaahI      xcamd    sa cWhat amadnes induced you, to arise? !' - "Its
w s in."  e your Wound, and fever yen
° bMiss M ,gr ' ' I am otwhat
e       lor, Im not to be thought times
of. 'I' amna sol lenr.  olUesetofgt   Id
and die bravely for beauty.  aleto beght-.ba
solin yo e '0, a
sigh futryi this cruiel, strait."-     1
so sny~u, thedi, So  great?'' asked. Ida , '"'tt
Lieutenant, "t is bt a rn  erd the 'wgtom
bt eto a womanlusoftutrnd
raeloving-and 'melued 1" lu rlosy' t i
of more than'ofdina  pe "an e
S You' need norparticulrii 0ans ere  '  "Ife
not heard of the well at anoo hat I have all hiS
She put her ld_ Ea .and wh

0

f              v

4Alt
V

I

ALETHE; OR, THE, CBILD OF THECORD.47
"No, Mr. Kavanagh"                    This will send me back to      a as I left
The; zodiaCal lights flaunted up -against  the' Him." ,.f1
sky just then, andIda fancied that-tbey had  'I*do notknow," said Kavana h, deeply
something to say" to her - privately. The mioved, "that I can dQ this;- butt if it be in
boreal lname was WoidrOtily pleasant to the o    of  ai'Qill notiesitate.p
look at ; so she kept looking at it. '"eOraan       vo anelan ait is nte poer of
"If I were tb 1ind a woman whom I be-    n !Hr w:o can slt a tr -o      eaer've
hoeve in my liaart is to be-rmty zodiacal light' my life,; can slay mO 'to; preserve ;my h e.
an  hudtell her of. it, do you think .that +Her  face 'gathered; something  th
eh    uldor ought to be, angwith meI"' 'odia~al lights ; for its purity was very beau-
He gazed at Id  and Ida gazed at the trop- tiful d I e t
Hgc    dalh.                        " "hOuld- see the' horror,"'imme'diate, in-
co sMr Kavanagh !" she- faltered. stant, iriemedialee I will destroy the sweet-
Whether she wag',prompted by the° tropical est temple that'ever' human-spirit inhabited?
lightso the shimmer' ing enchatizitntof the " But, Ida, the, death that follows thiz efirst
ghshor te't g         caendsedis                        t   8lb  nn
moon, nobody knows.               4    eMissme    we      n ha' withdrawnher
"May I understand your goodness . H he     xt ade       o       ithda    he
as",i aviethtrq ire ageat deal of hand, extende  t a in .to :lIavanag.H
asdn a voice t t l~irdag de ofa
pappnktokepdtea         tiipoise.    acceted it as if 'it*were the -mystic key that
Too  ey t     a t   Iat was to e nde  ad, he saw the zodiac throg  her'eyes,
ha h did not drop      h   kn     see lookg         hpef   a     Ve  abh He
hbn   n   eori     n   dr    The' tasbefhore lsho lie.conthntht'sey alwhys
id not; he stoodbo  uprightlke a soldie-. with he eyes, ad 'to livi
There was a humid appearance in the' hon- hem.''  sin oiid T       iheathy,
ion of'his eyes; there was a slight quiverim  It was very silent outside. The swarthy
and-twitching of the muscles of'tbe face; and Sepoys stood at' their:seral pos ts.  ata
anhebld  went down toward the citadel, leav- baa utton went his roduds, faithful to his
ing the cheeks rather -whiter than usual ; and 'own nature,fatultthswiin   Te
that was about the most that coild be 'made of tall, straight palm thew lengthened'shad-
it.    sown on nthe" slumbeonimrass'; the gigantic,
His    t   s         right, its true, be- reading, eard many-trtiked banyan stretch-
und estd?                                  gorneer    nenitsg.e t
cause it hurried and forced his respiration but ed itse              r shelteringarms$motinles"over te
his heart didn'tstopbeatih g nor histblod stop ibreathlessbliageh  eihd a  gacl
fowin, as it had flowed for some twenty- bamboos stoodhqut  ke spec' in the slug-
five years.                             gish air.-
yusi   cg"  g  I know not what to say  The night went on, follohingn.any other
is M    at eo  t i rt  r  f p     ights  danger'         blThe  ght'went on in
ss    PtpsilMiss MacgreTNIataIdoubt,I yet in                        ety. Neal
He reverentlyerknookaher hand
understood?                             M Kv~tg~n~~    knew  a' iglit like it; 'Ia
. &amp;" Yes, Mr.  avanagh. Macgregoedneveraneni                        if  A
zioetrda   shan                                lfe taontanmgo on;ee'sli felt
Then ziaallight-so-flamedinto Ida's great   n n   c    ead g    on'ife,
e  tat she closed themto eep it out.hbtew ate     are sph
Tere s   much color in hras  he a- 'not sometin' to'regretn -     lhelearly
e o.    e a        'herpr forehead' dtlove-nights; lowever,'are goodu; for ph heart
her chin. She gasped slight! y, and occasinisteeaethedirsOiipe         mte
al tremors moved her -arms, like littlesp mns mind pure.   ,
or wvesofmol~i.  -- ''         Kavanagh and Ida watched the zodiacal
«"I am n longer ill !" said Ka'vanagh, hihtseilpatlthSwsky eysadeBarnaba
husily '"am well I ever was no .well on his eehn, tl t was verj " eshe
uiny lf.  This, is a sweet, wound  I glory4  me er enced a cali and solehni' happ ns,
in m ite. a  a    i  rne~     for this ie , bew  ig  ~ ad indstble.*
bl iss?" at cn'-ofer'                   '  'rtrws     .
He reverently took her hand:'"  "'"z             OH l     .     .
'5 r. Kavanagh,"answered Idai; thnllhniffiY'"r"-ie;fito.
., "in return, yon shall grit me one thig - heligh     a'+fm Rnbbotdht reli elth
-when I 'ask ' it:- Should 'that .happen w hich  oushli offi[ Mnfi;tht. 6'VRain old  Zch  elt
we fear, .do ;'not- let gm fall, alive, ait.the taku ht oh   at~a'C~rd
hnsof the Sepoys.'When'all is lost, and ~The ,native y'soldie q'h~mifstd~ists
'turn to you; and: clasp my hands in -this-man- faction; hy  ee,,Oi' hyae hi
-n--he' clasped her hands-" give me a food in, sullihness ,' they drank 'isullen-
quick and easy death?, This will be enough. ness; thy'arw, edqu-to -   u1e,  y

t
f
t
1
P
C
;
.r
f
to
C
7


&amp;1*~U ;AR~WTU onw _]jpop' THl CRD1

OR, T1itL ORILaD OF T OOHI~
kedmnuch nP+

:I
,,

and patiently, for

fetch ye down; not bein'an a ssgvew
jee~tmi' :and         Whoeree ou, 2a-
"Iam Tilab, the tigertamer was  the--e
AllP2 Oh, you'tC1Ti ac, the dier-tamler, beyeP
Sorrytd sayI:never heeaOilye  fore iUI2Y
life. Never did., No I"      t d h
"That's vi~e~ud1OI  Ba ib"retlred th
native, d pppgf  ~  rhdrciUO
M e t h u s e l a h ' s  h e a d .  , ' .a  j - a i v e s t , a
'ji  riiljaritv,M i1te T 1   ' "lao  sm e'Btthai

48

49
Lmeri~
both, r

I


, 50 .            ALETHE; (OlR, THE OHILD'OI'THE TCORI ,
ing eyes, while it arose. on its hinder feet to chee, made hi
.receive the carsses'of its nister. k'i gnade th t tnthink of Alethe. It was
" Upasd Ujpas1 I must                 inrtwgutAi'athteisushouldliei.gtrue ; but it was
-     .'asIneed'rupees more than the  bet  aruasg         interested. Upas wooe
'  nHe." shtgmore efeytuall than Tiladk Had Upas
te stroked the gossy head, and stooped begun withrhimnfunid her master held i
.. e  heibreatho his face              tongue, hto 'e iould}aye been won." The'
ranse"ofPlhiu lu ut r a Huttn, earuied' manfestly wee rends n; a moment. p
in'spite ofhimself  "It a handsome beast,  What a      itdial'.mnrmured Barn
.Mister Tilac," l  added,               "What a 'aflcatog!is W'   m     atna.
"Beast, 'Sahib '  iCall not my glorious ate little  dgit 1is :what 'anr affection
!beauty a bea'st:'Call herrather- a pirincess;j beltve aybdy4 evaer I never h I don't
-or a proud and dazzling woman,'' answered  "'It's niparon fit'for a'kin
'Tilac, imbptunsl :  .                     It s a comainft o       ig" said Tl-
'Totiametudi ea:tigsar-taaro,-proudlya .'f"Sahib, ,you have the finest
'poet as4eidschal, eraI ser. Y-'t-.aelephant in ndia, and ou-wi1llsoon own the
Hutoeton lookeanxisusltchadr, I ee? he bun- st'igr~ O Buxdd      ho could.not
galow, an  kthevaiouspomtswerete bSe- behappy with .such an elephant and such:a
o ogal  were  rdtch i n'oua  poin1s  whr,  theSc 'r-"sI  ..   :    ,
You Wh taoing yo'i-reiuds -  irG; andpas placedla paw en 'Hutton'se; shoulder
4dYIowit no h o roiturnd'ahi; Til'aH andos ently sunk her muzzle till it rested be4
ntiCd  , .ll'W .ty , rtn,said Tilae, no- side Yit. ',x  ,; .,, "'
Thi s being thehing Ba"gn"bas'Tnteaded t   o akin aim at some'at, isn't she? Why
Thinstaptl passed  n Ba had blinending toldo yo  call her:T1r asp Ish't that a deadly
a   . n isatlpae naga 'it ig hadll sort of handle 4= tack onto a pretty kitten
taken whsold bacagain; f  _ e'tiger hack like this ?,"'.'
t" Ua od Ubas 'a d Bansa '.         " I call herlpas Sahib, because I found
Thegs'fiashe ahiin and owled    er stupefiedwithin the deadly circle of the
Tohtsee thathe aeeril and owed.    Bohun   pas. I took herf-in'my ar-ms and
"You~  ' ees  uta t ne i~er'l1 dd, kin' h'dr" e herhen-ce,, 'gasping; ,and4 nearly dead
:Hrttont ay eyes out 4nidar'n wnki'   yself withthe ; atal exhalations of the ma
;Hith an nvolunfar pshiverl.ute, n 'd gn ant tree:'She was then a 'glossy baby a
"Git a iun cautn  Seat r    :  ,   helpless yet charming little creature, tat
"      u S eak l ert e, ah I  ' s  lik  nestled  to oi ny  heart ike  a  ch ldt I  w arm ed
pmaker"ive  tlef,  ahtbandShesl  a her upon  y breast-. I breathed into her; as
oand sheGisve eslytwen.  - evil: 'ooemor  it'were,'the breath ofilife, her being grew
sd      tss w h iy temper. I ei eooa o iout of mine. Daou :marvel, Sahib, that I
othat  wtfrhili hbe p e.leasedbwithh   love her? Thename'of Upas is a good and
teah y   ou ill'obePalado with her  t  suggestiv one.; it tells.you what she was by
.      y ,ee  oedo."u '' do ihhr, s as nature, fierce anditefrible ; "cd what she ia
il  "                          by huan fellow   il and kindness, gentle
"Keep her -outo' the way of the elephant, and affectionate:" d '''pesgetl
tyou roTa;On  fishlipof a-tha darelesstieg  Tilac crossed his hands on his bosom, and
o gieitodk Ohtsile'hleri beauty  e :I   sighed heavily. ,,,$;,'.r;,,
to get hol'dHaefrtthe'a stat              "whdo you part 4vithher ?" asked 'Bar.
: "  er your isianahmal' s andl  'a~ nabas.     _ .              ."    yr
Ishell mep  ti  egou       'and Uas      It g  mf business,''-a, ieredTila.
-- ll  m _-__ . . b i yo, "and "oy" sha ;  a.            answer...=    _ed Tac, "to

'I

ALIfTEB OR, TH  OL01~lD
id~i t ;pes' '~iiac, " a 1 Gomehere,-my beauty; comeihere':"
it    r    'uesees   Like a prudent man  however,
e o v"  .  h        at dsle  t11 a nik g - dcbkedi  fisrevo1e ar,  not fllyt
e1eo, .t6v6fa Ae, r: s ~fl f' thy, neli 'Of hm iSifon
ei  , d  ttbae  io"
S g    addrsaidadihumoredvoice
,ig my b  o '  have it
blu         dypepi~ reditaustrbu
nt 7,'AV                  g
1do Sa inS  F al ,a Brnabas Hutton, who had modestly stood
* iam!T at welbace at.~ingf eight iiowadvanCedinto
a anittase4..,U.a Tnas   n

iUribU l "Well, this
erfttly aiinar,. =She'
. ': ' -  ;i icy , ,'  ',  , 1   '
,Bagnabas iaAre you
l's phfectly safe'?" 're-
eascialy pushing 'his
drew'ears
plain truth, my boy, I
tinite .surprsed if that
g right onto ye, and tear
uln't ,'NomOn, the
I ratherdetu   in asa
erwisc. If thduaila
htuw it before 'he does
Sow; IfHahe pulls you,
life !k lon' ee1e':the
'No. Ws, couideaup11.


52~    ALETH       fp

I.          -'

:

i
e

toez .ktu~be noticed: Twdu~dT 1*       +     s   # 4ow~se~i ,-e j3obi 3 if     j
"Ispdog for a 1ady :.Shouldn' t womderr Vwas self."   f  :..r'T.'iF-   ~ 'i: o_..J
to givse h~rflo"duoe.iethese 4ays.Eat S  a ~i~hie;  Vow,  Butt~i~~~~tltdbia~
.}Alethe }'rsaid/ Klwanagh 1 it ur  'niiter  l ti~dmtrIfktio  i r  . fin'el ip'ant's
acid wbkrds = e'.tartl g.Tell  : 'hat' master.  Methuselah's pr&amp;i 6tw ivi  £n
"Tegir clapped her hands, and said=' i~efh~iinb&amp;fseJhsa
;~r                     _,s4 ~s'&amp;his I&amp;  kJewed   e   « eaee s-nd 'his=
The- tigress turned quickly, and weft 'td l' flai hdabQittl{k.
her. 'Instantly, she began.t ycress' her.           ; = 3nlhis h s urrie; a~lo~ed b'id
Kavg^au{atgh Qno#iiced that 'she'y-looked- stn' gh t  Jsird - d': slip -bif -his'  5&amp;tuid fall t6 the-&amp;
intot ithe I aiina l'ae" r yee j . man pnlat  l"+ li'  o~i . r r( t "-  rT3,(U
glossy hett4 with ker  Wh dswith  'e bi tl Methe fdid not m infest' i i h'" tvoi der ,t
ous:.backward imot v d, , 1d4burl ht rbsavA is' loquen ; she waas~re't&amp;el'iibt
first flamed, withr z ctenibnttb*but 'g09111al'ydii $, b lo ehjbuy "iia y°y othe ; q 'tes::
softenech:tilh the+y ry were gmitle a  a wo  h' k y                         (ig  s{ s4edahb~t
Tt hen  j Intnor+ the Lioutenattinto v ri  t  r"i. r    XF%'  SaJ  f: ..+r  « _ ' . I1
ed: her. Up lna e :g rew m e e I o : d   suibis l  Do not be aakMr. Barnabas t.I  i
with asigh   ke trthudlt's ef 'Alih4 this ereatn±*e.'  hAd br ti'ii~i  stm n
feet, ad preseitl i bi~shshor  e    «fa&amp;    no lar crrt an agat: I'kii  wi
"    ue Ar.  seein'rtha1: ?? !i lddl a b Jcan subdue'her. I trust not Upas switl ~;
who was by this?.;ime ain :a hirgh  atd 'f1ds I  nb  a:hb 4Ie    ti!46,  d  tie
miratiouL - t 'Aaseyouseintth1; Lie U1 iitrt ous at -cer%  n :. ,11 L t -lie i taitfbult
Isn't she a witch, my bo y"??,.; i f 3d.  "'W kO':those sbunids i # hei " birngW #id he
"She S has , within* ways , 'f 't,' Ye- will lash the groundwit~ he~ tail, and, 'shwa''
lssrriled than his flend   s s.  )   s-i=    ; it ma ,de ntral 'frt -ty  si±ed'
lei suat ieoerod p  1,pr  ,added lriij Py signals she h ee   understand.
'f grows more r al'able  Tgi i  ta ,ow  ah It is not craft  t  eikes 5  fawn on you
hou ago ; but they'll b    b   ig1i 'il   land seek caresses; 1ti5hlhte  e:ess fher
t r BanabSh 'said Aletlis,' eet* i Witl h  ti -  ie- the dd    sd 6v es noic
'will, to i.lea n ~as ito meg' ' za .° '  lik a ith rd ; shieebb  ' $ k-ndZ  Ina'
Ins'    yr   n  Ia~~l nitsaz                   M   h    g3Qlls leave hert td iyej win' :   'll g'e  yana!n  r ml~kind ess'6flet iate.' ',1
quit~elaiin deed4ohaVu ant ood.Ptb'kS  -Kavanagh listened .to Aletbb;1lnord ' thari'
end to cultivate, now and foree, out lAnmd half s'  ed rsiesa5  =b  h    sre'nd
your biris.  fId~siguia, and ®, uuds-ti h modesty. If there~ was, ever to, be a mon ant
~-'all accordin' 'tolai  nd xindue'for miv'th=a d5&amp;~fues1to f ti ilsv  ° "-  the
Sgeslw  and thsoigressa foresaldbih4  tOiWn&amp;itA(e  Wi Wd di ,/t ft
repeated' some forty timesxor, ti ehti orten lilt heYy ) ;} i   +  t  c l  hinn  5
pougbx. to wshihk-o bo~ thing Aa =dned them. ]iid helthink   P ti3a o  f r' a
puzzle,. to rnaybo ~of commin= ense. f = t t Ahere au ht -in -tat'lbv ldetb j"  l .i  m
holi{{.p-t{La"bi I3)owni&amp; M I heiaes .n al nfl4efth4&amp; a1o*!'' OthieYii  d (f t  edtfst
de in atJ at auianilo ;-sif theme'a iaii asimuslty atide.   aW  s ~  I  ;k i ' iit  - o ue
i  atculb- if there'ssaln cratch -and?bit -iri hold? Did she know'  = x  fe  Z dh
tIbtcit n a i. there's arty Taa~nd tiar in grow i Up  lfrth   faii{i°l1it' II-adher htiy
possession or ~~one without; for all-,the pearls onse-? Yy- :   A
1,ito'Vsecuntenanee grew serious  Lt n5Lh'5I Jbttin' Whine h"~  ai1fng for the-
went on ":   ..: i 'd 1F 3 _ i ' f," ? s  ',}  i~1"4o rd ie   bn   pl'f~
x, I th     trai~ ick abed 11thit44; f theexb's t l  s  bei'lh 'ogrsbr'.i,*stdug .ybs : r  i
any $ Iidu%nui."at thie- bottom on't Af; i rtQuer!'' ilt5'y ! n uttered . n R$
tlqes          a'craft e"b        i'io    otlii'iiltsight ,'and topefi ~'dr ;;  ieb Y
e x ier e~ndi on't'-jst dletime, know' A.mixed up with  lrd s'Tit7% ~ $.
peak out , myw tttle i  V. en=   your vseut na W  E;gam 'tiget r,'iaaagtt;  ydMd
©t         yont             a~'a1the     Hav itigh, gal; e     li;sat,  u
&amp;iskco'  th ,a.tress on ounrOwn s  prettysh l .me.-anecdote and j_ nttgli ; Tila,ri' er
;~ doVt~g.- fo to  xpo'n' yttrself fo   adC4 l a 'in-  sdI ~sr~e  h  ua
hex ojr: li] ;,;Q ,:her QX for£auSybpdy. If youI countetinee more K  g  pl   le i

Ij


I

91%T1 ceg   OWE4E QORD                              . AL1THE; OZ TB CR ImD OF THE CORD.
a$19/put lagnyemutter'qus;is twenty, or thirty,,as tihe ase ma berthat - ehwound; andothiers appeared to strike tinctly~ The dimness
allhe psos-  de ouneda nge - ."   are hidin  te ,-ungio  Waitin' to ba yin   ihmelephant ;  wio. within acry lk  lrm  m ksrvn  nyhr
hstto~ e. t s ide 't ,ealosy  wdnrover 4eatlete plundert',  teg,. and'tospillagena"  et, rushed upon the. aggressorsr Mlethuse- her own terrors, prevent~
Hutentou 4e unjudi' st ong; he waj "We must aticipate 'em!I Demme, abr ito look at, was: a vast~ unleidly niass ; ob ects clearly.
momegntos  t  t nismeor ~n a feW  We m st -anticipate  em I , We musn't  wat but that mass was capable ofeterrific enotoi  'kh  suddenness  of ati
about as ardto ianage as  I     Th Mao.srn from his seat~ really  suddenness of the onset at they bad lived scious of wbhat w76Wtransp
un  r                                              nt~      se n. Thnm k   o th i us e s pa ly n he  po w e  f a  ile
c a ' t f o ~ e   w a t s   d a g e   W t h Y e ' ~ e piu  H t t n  o  t h e i r h  t  h  r pv o l v e r t e   aao r w e g  e  g eo e c s
i        .   t t go r  r    u s   e  ta m e s  f i i B ~ ~ e r e '  a n et n t  t h n g   o b  almo sw    ve r  t h i a h a d s   se a d o   i g   t a i c o e c h e   o m f
m  ,-ut~ke     u '  Y~TJ ot y  shc d a b ri l whitle fomho  he e's h no  t hee e s   twitb 1 ne t h  ea it-slly,  I
he t  ca; ~   etusen   at   dpit t  K a a ag myo e z i  bu  y mrb n alow  wil  beulo e t a fr e a  ter or and  su xi  a  d eor e  Je oen,  g dr a o nd
de~r i~tb .  Se'swh   s          n We  entbaamb nwal   tat'd  s ananaba  drd  o g t me b t  won  Sh   wa  e  tah gh
uneke.           leqer  g ss   pat   aee                                                             sh  cle
b :ntsdown                      ;thal ere  w ams   go  s e - fu  it aee ilt  ofsothe  anim l  t n a da t  usaddis u in e
c  h   ~~~ed U   ihtly1  reyo n   o       h erchtlm i                            s              asv  oc  " h  a
her nameaiy Qo n t ooe  paR  jui gle  n think ds paeP I  r aTy wind tl gt t  e  e aond  t  bare  ofstb e re
d  ia      reabsel p                     1e8 romk      ukt ra iwrher to te oud  anrd  A 1eh 1 wh has tae

~f night, and the
face,to~ e h r w t
ed her nro seeing
ic'rceding the
icr. F or th e sp a c e 7
iing~' tashe was
.seamwsever
rd i h oe, a
aThroeing pe
asrt nehicen ad
ynto 'ex on apr.
y thrw
vthe tigessthe
4et~ he rsmlelyo
nuivein, aend' hisf-
ro  om for here


§8;4,LTE ;0B ,R,,THE :CEILDP'QM PT~ iCOIEf.

"As neither the. treasures:of4eolconda nor
I are for, thee, go thywy qicsly,- 0
Tilac."l
The tiger-tamer started'withisurprise, I.
'What did .yQuAsay;?"4 he  ted. ;:iidi
you speak ofonetllax y  nouiv  ' !
"I seldom spearm  b            ,ps dojoknow.
This air is-getting it96,tile kto bes breathes
Tiger-tamer, y wda  better. goW retorted:
.Alethe, ninly  n 7 i3f, ,  n j 1; n  : r  s .  =
"I will go;. hyt.yg4ghallgouwtth me.'
Tilac darted forward to seize her s8he
retreated,exclaiing,rVehernently   .
"Upas)LUpes!.
She still retreated.; she repeated".:. {
" Upas ! Epasilz' a       e.       m
The tigress tep ang  jp at he soundsf. er
voice; she lodke: 'at 4 1ethe, Ahentaking her
meaning fromrcher eyes and agitated voice,
and goaded on.by the sApe,-lpa* tsned
hot and angry, on Tilac. The creaturerhad
been sleepig iai i corner ot the apartmentt,
nor had she been; observedby Tiie; hut
now that ,she seddenlytuprosea  d ,con-
fronted him,; the. effect was mostyextraordi-
nary; and he staggered baqe~warC ineredu-
1pus yet terrified., ._       *     f
Vas this the oeile,tobedient animalhe,
adparted.with but a short 'time before-?
What had transformedher-? Wa    , itindeed
the same subuinsive, :,sagacious; creature ?,
There could be noigqestion aboutthnatter.,
Had not Alethe called her 'Upas ? would it
not be remarkable fortwo;$iegeis t be called
Upas ? He recognized the superbheady the
resplendent eyes, the glossyskin; there graed-
fli form, undulatingand, quivering with:
strength andierceness..' F;',
Would sheforget:bi ,ministering..handi?
Wouldshe forget their ,friendtship-4he 1ess
ons ahe. had taught, In, shrtywould: she
forget her master ?
"  ss, girl ?" articulated Tila making A
singuarspunda  m    ,    :a s
The tigress  4dnotheenimr The signal
had lost.its :potency.  heigianced siisltth e
as it for .her final wishes, then-sprang at
Tilac, wh), wi w  tteretleeerationsgand a
cry, darted s om the inlngalowd a
Alethe followed, and found;pasinthe
veranda, excited,aniangy, sad glaxizs to-
ward the jungle., ;'Il swasnot u ' seen.I
A part ofhis sareg wesuying n     'der her
feet.,--,  y-      :    ,a n  L
"Jethe .l .etb!" cried Barnabas, pring-
ingtotheverandda
"Here !" said Alethe.
" Te   P e;ris, fillofsmoke;,,he added.
"The wind has died it infast   We've
wasted timee; trying . to putout theaire.
Where's Melicent day's s 'out :yonder with
the Major and; Kavanagh ;;but where itiWthe
name o',natur'is 'tother one?" : a

SonfCome with, e, M':Bainabas 'P'11shiw
yndsthe w4 to er.chamber. I-fear she-is
suffda~cd bythasnoke'a
;,-dThe gir1#lided through4he stifling 'iaut9
Melicent'sTooio Sliepfound-the: door open,
and searched inaain for her mistress, aided
by Barnabas.u'-
"Look ing -mdre ' .cried Aletie, "Tilac
hastbeenbmere. sMy mistressiis carried a way.
ge came-for me,and had'lIit been:defended
b' ijpas,l', should hha-vshared; as was doubt-
less intended;'heramisfortu e4 AHasten, Mr.
13arnabas,:ta overtake:thds 'whohave borne
her awab''        r   .,
'It's ait easythinglitler kal, toute11o me
ta hurry a-ter hef;2butdwh ihuway am  I
to-golM1 al rr  a     d    J   -      -
" I doa't know. iWe will think of it while
we preparepfora flight" she ,e'idd, in a
troubled tone  s.
MYou, ahd2 I,;and the other one ?' said
Barnabas, 9"will aiddtherelephant. The Ma-
jor-and the.Lieutenait are goin' on h6rse
back. Here- the  are, -horses, saddled, and
bridled. Whoa, Methuselah, whoa."     .
These concluding werdsa were, ofa course,
addressedAto the elephant, who was step
ing about uneasily, piping andsnuffingthd
air.
"Essy maya beauty tdon't-go' for: :to: wor-
ryin' y oufelfldA pill ,ortwo-in= your side
wont hurt ye. Don't fret, old boy ; -don't
fret.'?..    ,.
Whers is Melioent?" cried- Major Rawn-
bold, anxiously fr3SI trusted the girls to yodi,
Where;;in Heaves; 'nrame; haveyou left
her? Not in the burning building, surely'
'.ESonte eaneakin' ,ritter hasastole'E her
Awdy.," replied  utton.  :
"Stole :_her.:awa t'~ fbaredthe 3Maj'i.
"Have o allosted her=to bestolen:away,
Sir? udou't alowher to -bestolen =away.
Sir ,de'mi e4  Alethea4da- peak! .HWae
ou=lostdyeuntongueset &amp;ad t you saiy ukokne
thin :A~m= Iitoo gdistrted ,before goni
e a   0  a   rit (
'?ag attaangelbeinlg called@Hith ed beens
herisd'iarswered Althe'; &amp;aud theresis no
doubtAhutcheis the hEau ewofMier disappear
ane     . Mr.Barnabas is going after'her: iMr
Barnabas alwd3 s:ets ht-hegoes after."
ABlast     irua baI't ried the choleice
Major opvdke-at the0o0lnsuind eheede
Sfaith of Althe. '.I:wunt nay girl, ad
wlgo fbr hrinyselt Which way did-tli
rasOal eatyibher Why hadn't you told-mO
of 4hiahalt a obhour  mo
1anb~ldwas14tia prxs    of ensterun
;tion whishpir entefhim from knowigege
aetly- what-ie saida
'"Bhe-hasn't-been missin' as longas that,'
ie p   &amp;ed Bardabas, coolly. 4'We've'but- this
minute found out about it. We're-goin'-to d

56

i
F/


'7
S    t,'/f  t ,
4      Y  "t  e 'i  t ~~f  i4   "':  .,4j -A  ,.
"  ,'   - ~r1i 'F,'1w iA?~  .y' aa _t  ' .1t  1
~tiy  'fl'3  ,Y4 y:  i="t "4f ."  f4 yl't  . ^ju:.. . ,;'  t   r    '  '

7,

A'  f     . . 47           F4tf+i3 7.!

-         7 7
Ag
%'  7 -7' '

K 'l

. I

r          e                         i
,                      '4
i                i
'    '                          1'.           r
i
4     +            '"                Y               f  f '

everything;that'a pgihle. ietteinAwit
your horses right away, gentlemen sdAction
isatgreat deal better ldertalIk.)BoW, M4thu-
selah!I To your. kiees ,old laboy1.Let, me
help you upi gals 'Lethe, take heo)of Miss
Gregor; for yanmobrauseto ealepht-ridini
nor she is. iThat~ssi-gileepietty ardh-.gieal
pUp like birds ! Now stiekh : ' t,4ht for the
old boy rolls like :a;hipzat-sea;, wb: shduhin
a hurry. If you slop.off, eian'tstdp 1itd3ie
you up, you know. ,We Ahall scumtl#a I6ig
like athousand kegs ok.gunpowder, awhedi we
get started. Wheremthe=kittehw'Lethet
S What's come 'nait, eht?' -:_  a  tf ;
" Upasl UpasI47 cried Alethet +" Upsad
Upas !" She raised her voke eace ti~te she'
repeated' thenamh.. Indh:momentvthe tigress
bounded stothe sp itraiuigi:after ,hera prgy
tion of Tilac's'sarong that she (had dapturedi
Thehorses: snbteduanud reared.33 Ida, shriiek-
ed,:and the Major was dumb'withbewilder-
ment.                           m
"Don't fear, Miss Ida"! rThistisatanie, aad
friendly. creature," Alethe hastened to)sily.
"Come prUpaa! :Co ne up .1' s x  .' F
The beautiful animal leaped with wonder-
fill lightness to !the side oftits=now acknM*l-
elgedlmistres,. Idaiwas: disposed to shrink
from such compadiinshipe but seeing Udas
lick the girl'a :hand 'and press. her heads
against her cheek, to'expressChet confidence
and affection,ashe "tegaiued her self-possess-
ion.           '.
'  Curious doings !". muttered the :Mejor.
" Everytliing changes:here. Nothing'renal s
as it was five minutes together. The girlhat
got that tiger from some of herdonfounded
native-relationsIsipbse, to biteusgar sciatch
somebody's-eyes ouft Shouldnit wbi der' if
she swapped Melicbntfbr Its demme !"
"No, Major, there ha'n't been no trade o'
that .natar," ihterpsedBaabis.  it'!That
criter was giver me hyiagenerus cuss.-I
tu1nedlit-ver to 'Lasthatodb6 bdarded,:'lodg
- ed, and eddic ted.+She's gttherup - hand'
on't a'ready, you see. Blebe ,your :body,
*  -or,.shd'd been caried soff,:hr elf'it
dti't bees ferat t pretty:kitteutD. n't1
they look peart andsassy  :'there. together,-
like threegracbs onua load' hay I't ; _3
"The Sepoys ! tthe!Sepdy saI un xbrprMel
icent must have fallen into the hands of those
wretches  Ohl Mr. 'Kvanagh. what can we
do"?'exelaim edIdh.l sUi, vx
TheMajor roatiede            ;
f'Yes;yesi1' he mulihured, huskil r.oa My
sweet gitleis ost'- Oh,.that:tLshouldlipe td
know that she is subjected rtohteupitlileU s
oruelties ol dihuman formnl"'    -
"This is most lamentable !" said Kavay
ftagh.M',I cannot understood! 1owMiss Rain-
e boldcduldhave been abducted without ouif
knowledge. Itamust have been done- with

A            OR           liii                00

59

extadsh     suitssand  cure   iing 'My
* rdiftojir serpentydrabadhca bad an
a  eneyAu thls?is." y  .pr  -  ' / f7  t  4!.+
"I noaramembersi&amp; Ida; tlat when
Iraneougof th  house, I bid fdtelatter of
horse's feet, just wondsI; where itgei bridle-
path r    longs  'thaInte huts.      -
" That bridlepa'thei;Missregor,'said
Bardaba; "'stoe     wan idlind.,x
"girl," said the Major,  ousng himself,
skyott sdidson    =bout a visit f'om sone
ope. &amp; Whoiwahit,andwrhat Was it?"8i
w               i       t1T naphte4. isit"oansweredAIethe,
"Was from a mysteriousyIa ndalledailac,
the tiger4anisr whoapalit hasJbeen fa miisfor-
tu e t rie unter beforeM;Heprang to etke
nitahb is aiths,sand would hvesucceeded
hadt'it not beenfarsthe tpo e rL aad acquired
over this creature,.w*ic4l*asatithat moment
sleeping u observed, ft mftiedt: In my sur-
prise and/;teirrdnied, Upas ,fUpas !'.and
she shotpnon hia;Likenarrow,',forgetfuliof
the land that had reared-her. ,.IietHied,;with
a cry. I followed. W-hen I reached the
veranda, he haddpdii igsedrland the ani-
mal, withthiafragment oft sarongtunder her
feetwasalooking ntentlyand ang ilrin the
direction mentiWed' by-Miss Ida. BY. the
help ofthisdggb yet:faresighted:keen-scent-
ed ereaturernaite dwith-the speed and sagac-
ity-of the:elephant, we hall be able to trace
"/There'g ense for ye saidsad EBarnaad.
"She :uoWhomore than, all of bus I vow!
Nowwe're|pluEbtihus btanieioual iMount,
Mjor, mounti!_Can you:manage t to.guide,
Lieutenant, withone art-Y,-    1
" Think not of me, my fiend. '-,thaveal-.
ready-forgottenmyawounded arm  !See! it is
outfofltheslingandjifinecess', lean hold
the reinwath itiwhile-uat  ther for de-
fencefMis-aMaegger ,are:.    safelyseat-
ed, Is +ur strengi'ieqgal    Amergen-
Havatlagha&amp;iddra pna r to Methuselah,
an&amp;noW looked imbsthesrnestl a dde7 His
terrible ansietyand is teat ovevere;pic-
turediupoiuahisface , i,-V.1111
piI anF bear all Ethingarwithopatient firin-
n         eeysI answered 4in:aTh.tw"dd;anino g
toiee'fE Lmay utt rely~od your nymise.
Ruhngbert ny rnerdthebarbatoff the
Sepe s; and whenhopeisiost;i rsliatoo .,to
yen  rjtatodhielaae edge your
self. I will not shrink, Mr. Kavanagh:I
wig aehept-it as full;andrperfct eapieeslon
effOur love.   . 5   i 4 /m  -_a a 7 ,
'I amuetacertainjada, that it.is=ossible,
as once' 'sl toryous but hinl Imimay be
able to keep my promise," he said,'sadil.;
,                          Awill have bo-doubt,zKatana h::-y 'I
will do it', and say it firmly," saifT ssMac-
gregotrin'accents.deeper andhmorethrilling.

t,
1             i .a


-QQ~et.athe  Struck by s 'aldshoe, ~elicent
' f  t  #  ,  / i   4 V as ed" tw ,..  1'i:'t  i r°yet' -' -.sY
.j   1 - go ]  _ ?   pe .  -c  " r ! _  W enLC   Y
. f   s                ,- g ir ti fm fir

0

60

oX, 'VERM

f


62           AlETHE; CSI , ThE' E ~lDor TZG
CHAPTEMR XX1.       l~j~  ilac attsedand"h~bo  r
« i'li~  t'hee, ia;j' el cd      vt   oi . ,THE CHILD OF THE CORD.  f tel  h tbrown tiie  us
diot ride fad. _ The wound - tr will  ~ A vs aciat,"Ld wSth epn

63

ALjBTH ; TC;-TMtE HILD O-P THE 1 WORD.


A                                                  LTREUT3gOR,, TUB CILD 0? TUE CO1RD'
was  ,?   1o  ,  t e  dcons ,,n t 4o foy'qmin,.They outgrowed  tno  s teWhere is mr-wheretisy  ir  t  her'
i7o ene b o d e  sw " ote  t  ,yeare agg  f a.Yankee has. a  She topped and strayed her starry  es O, traye
e a s t                                                   s t) ? O o jm   h r ai n e  h e r e   i ~ M e u h r 9 g
Ixlenrg an i hE e , oi        e     se ;.fhe bas the backward path. "Isee him  Ise  a Cla
ohldeg,a p eared a a p  a.                  she added, clasping her hands.  n't he  in "isinace tan isr
leg,   ata yanoshe hash e  ,:..t e)0 j handsome ;,f  brave, handsome  nan, Miss Jyggrgor  parednMrne an  Y
ruces o               k .*mus rDon't dyou lovew be thMiss ?MaedarcBrabS~O
Sde         s    nDon't you love                              male tiger will soon be
tu               oa~vr       e  e"         tou  ea
h h  ne e be o               e  a~~~~~~~~~badiu fopieirhtla inagnl oe  fr.  tnIsa
n dc s  a n   i ng wend  tden  51Nar  nnhs      s er  I new ,"Y" seed  Ida spe t h e   anfig a
of d o s,  s e na   sh~erp medo tiiue  -,aiz   yaa  o n-"se i  lo e  w i n~y g i a r of ly u r skn"n  th e  w hr l ng  B nd  i x d
d                                    id  a rstia   wv e tneor   o u  heli
-  i        a f e y  e                        A sck  hi  se t  epo er e r h n o you.ta g r, a d h   tr m n dou   cea  sh
t e              a      T   c o m ~ e   a  a  g p l an add  1 tIw o l   g o, in t   a fo n r e ;  h  is ,~ h   to   s p l n i d  i  elg r on   t de
eecnoe                       e t a n e r  ipt e d   o h i . ye  b an   o r   t h e a d   o f  a
e nit a s e t   ed  M r.  h  ,dyo  driskr his   v e f r a  ,   an   '  sm ie .  W hatrmu r row   track  fore ete
iti he   a  ec             heeae rA Fth   ai ndgenae oothe .'e~bones ychekindeg
teen  gr yam;  tfo :d~ t         Be           cess  Macgreg°o  im (see  brav ey I-  posne t h  cb ata  ot
bi n fra i tie   e t"                O fplcfmytig      eealte, yMiss  dan  h   ru d.  h   rfg
no e  a T  sya se                 d                 T ota esd e r ds isthe d    h r i ke  an arrow, a d  or t
-neg         e h e , a  A h  a n d  ln o o e  in t   t h e r  of e   a   hi d   p e t h a   h r il
mense                                             oldgoinm' vnisab r oitpr  ax.  agrew pa e  tha  her hps  e elp foro Aleh  ochd  o  rup
Alth  thporeer eye                datedshe satcud  n  u e ar nols   dub 'as " i cfh di s o
e    foer e1            pared  ccane,  orhis ineh     n oheep d o e d. "fr .  ndh ws  elov e  '  Don't lth in gnewrhe b t
had                              e eadeatw             st at  May Ie e Uebronosfa   him p"
~  .  h            u cs ar                   y .1wp    ar t  el inr
i ce ie nih ra 2,9Bthre wa ou  duo e r  u'o   ut ha  e  se do  he  -aoedou e   in tha nd lnok.h ardeduc n by  th e
e his  i aer afheMr aa       resp9  ; bn. li t  Al   h esaid,  rin'  L   on t,  and At him-  ay  ar  er
ofjN doeor,  shesaa':&amp;  tpaLu    eWrstpaie           la k new,"' .
dbe..oif                                      ee  the  .wa tr  e tde l
~ifan             r uen  sto  nsernte  bythx  epe-er e  hae vrcald ou ugtb tdda
l                                             elementhe  whieinitn rl ofesr  kiane d a i gptid a in  iewdumthfaea
Christi an a s   t per  t to h lng an m
secth da e  beurpre shone fr  'yne r artin u h s t a e
-ineffabletender-                                                       withanpleasr erait
ah o o e '  n , h   u te                          sorpok T h t  m e  incheer u  -e   a ni aut lt  tiens e red
g i r lP w a s   5 i st o rf, a                                  ri    tedbb se  yx  A  u r l i s a "
he f httii'et           ? ,y        t areiin i.Ia     isdt e v or ealed h rlp, er 50 svg y in roc d
I:    nterstankidn,  pobll euas ed  rphiyW ato  lo-.dipldcin                 asn~en
,  c n t e i                        to tw ep.1. harvns
w  du s   ip gs; uld''an  ' e a"pl g                                            how  the tt u  h'  tr
Itou  d               I              Y u  a e wravihed whsfrom  me-my;innerb.,fe.,A ,  0t otruggjle
o f  o o s , s h  W s  n  ll  u h e s  y  /y  ; pe  ,B u t o  n y o r  y e s   a  w ind eo r s s e s m hoetfh e e rtYkOt t
onenwiser han I. I omplain no                       reprowert unmatche
presencnotheI only askldesilence. tForethed sakeedof Mel-d the coiltiofswtheneseofayou
Tionf          1YALr   isM crgr  a ~ kn           los!Is  ience"owaeetinuised
ont Aleiseeda;d                                  woreuwh ;amazemesting  weight aeshort
Coor~lt addb hen  he dreddtd        h  ofdo             otyit  the  ero a  t  asrnw
theren cksn         otph end" aa'pale; O !th at  r  l i~oe  ie  i p of lt  e  t u h d.inph
g r o u n d  w i t   t h e ni g h t j u t t p a  e  ' l    "  aT   h e r .gc ha1  e b u t   c o n t.u eH s s  o f  y o u  lM i s
s et 1 d t' dkn n ss ~  evoue 4   h c m e  'thew : gh er os cuss;he irt k ssetht   a y  nev rhe vea e b o endn;h n f w b c   o
i  h  tt a  l itr a a n ,   th e 59asa ,erre re: itat edo  tiean  o  re tathad pro   '  ru t, yIdeaiy ed  cr st"ne sofabidna d pu.
tht acn eq~  a ke  pAa, is bath wasi(lqedso kc  ue  thiasbnw uet ery"BYu v  ae ribs  o  Is 'ear oemli'rse Aeh  ol
the                                         ppea. kwesoses
faro r slake byth esp r 1 of M eh w ke  b e  °  t u:ee. u  sql  H utialandg  yand rn y  nin dog te.  u
isoate galae  ka                               otseeww            at's          best
1;g:thrIs most 4 ao t .gI  sid1der pJ~ o tti oase/r :ntei -d  otIoi s si ne;F rth
c eutrl                e a t  ;not c d ed   h yr; .b e,  a 05a e05 fo   f. aee ;
, sw: teIL1Aoxo  ugd:, and  °l p tenscent, fofrn   cyn. ethevhineoiv   a
. d  I14oa '  -o 15isp t    t eforain'?            Idne,;ad 'lduatin. He!)
HE  Ea nrT~tU         tii~                        ois  ol    rento m1ae~  eoteo o;btt
.,wqnlle1~  cgrfes ~lognbheos onray
s c el epat soratFed  S 1T04  o crAl a  Ayqu.  nd1  nd ma t s l  uin t h a x ~ ' i ,a dd n t  n c nv~ e Il
m e s ,  ei e h ~ l  f o ,  a a  t ' a x t " thte  , al , tht  'h e ep.a p e '  t  e  la h sdo n 't. le ss  yto u rt eenso n ~ t ru t o t
ly1                  !p pret=twhat her a elemetsaprety ey      sAdo  de parpdeu    bf
a #d~ptrols ,ou. b kthir, ,aj  ;iitca I 1xe sd  h  olux«  a  o  ep i .oa
sue,, fgpa; u  theCry.1  C              "        0'aeyes  isrdim, ands:a'n't the  things  totlook  haveeeply  roved.  btnd
,    ,te ~~, her.U as hwrk  gIr..              .Aeh ho e
groun  * th              ig~e  ,TsP  n f    oth nIde.aira  n v e rs niee  th n s   a - k s e   e   o th a , a
"Th41's4morecheeyfslnlik," reiuetate.dandhpleasre; fortiti
rele ,bei dkau B rnbtywa  blgd  4 66datps aiyi s     4 t s .i .td en  nabst,   T eyceatreyee'ede
U  k y  he pe  .Qtf  e  s  i ,a e  I,4e ~ Bl.pqIt   W" eocan  ae  ae   ri u  o f ~aa o e v s  n w r a i a ,a s n e o   u
centn                            ie           arat.n-  d              nes.Bvrygrdai
royal'                      , isvoi{ce -"'pondedmuc.haneareondthanbefore. iedbywhercinstinr taran
li bgnss  Te   ou g o~   t i=011sl~U            ab r. ot aga indth  scleisisicsortsws

65
asked Barnabas.
voice be-
Habit 8 srougar,
i, ~lence. "Be pre-
r a cpnfiCh t.Q
upon us,ua Uas
pie wil not be equal
air elephant to her
mass.o tie, A
iOk the Junge-cA
r spr ang jinto -the
in. U pas bounded
as, and alighted on
r tiger was not dis-
rpas darted onlhim
o conflict -followed.
elah !" cried Barna-
3k him out, old boy!..
ter of the little 'un.
at voice of Hutton-
mall incentive when.
elephant itished to'
mass of tiger, and
qerd the aobimomnt,
, and litdhmi
so intervolved and
Aethate they rose to-
ara of'Methuselah.
yets and her train
mttlhwasoeng ,de-
d dropped lightly to-,
, princely, and  ith-
jkthed hopelessly in
hi4s ribs yie,  is
aand his proud life:
he quieringand on-r
distance, then drop-
bistle of disdain ad
tg do
queried foe a moment,
&amp;lethe with the light-'
up its head'-to 'becar-
LOt (resist ,the eloquent
taken the-a onthe:
and mharmny with.
yes' sparkled. like the
month, was open, l.er
er eieat heaving with
hece was -a perceptible ;
~prgssioi andig low of
respelloit
rums -arond ,:her neck,
6d.p~e uirdlytoher.
eayodie with pirid a
th e         mlan.. or
ty donorig     apr-
Lom., .pas-was govern
I her w  iu


06              ALETHE;'OR, THE CHILD O4F THE CORD.
.Barnabas IHttion witn'essed thi"
with wonder but adniration.t  is, noney aware of it till he saw her standing on the
lived that Althhe never did ad  really be- ground.-
doedythAinglitha wardot en never would "Shall I save him, Mrs Barnabas ?" shb
by the icumstances oftthntcasly  arranted asked, as if arrested by a sudden thought.
byutedircuatdanesof  th se. irb  I don't uknQwBrowne! He don't  rye
tue hnAdtheandnMet huah.                 worth it.-Howsomever if yu've
nw        a     a        e ad been an  ot that anecdote about ye, you'd better tr
/ eye-witness of the'ourageand devotion of the it. I don't like to see a fellodeathtter a yo
fi"tq; and as for qthelatter, long companinthe bite  is p alg sna meher
ship had assured him of phis fidelity 'and  "*I ~thou ght you'd saykoMr.B"nba
" Heshar , oi'ter                   answered Alethe. She turnedtoBe i
'  the Alehi "u'll ar, spurring up, "Get offare .B   uEevenod e ocan
undghtlite e  of it  t ti   n    ce," sak oi lethe profe qik fohe
" T   ferew oftesa e      of the cobra is speedy.  a   n
aer's oune, I'eaihe ake you a present.."I kiownot what eoumeanve me an
of," answered Barnabas, painting to the life- "but inHeaves naetrylha ilnot
s   awneim al  that  lay  in   nthe  "path. s"If  any H hre r e shi me l fro h h o , and bwrt
,  on 'em come, they'll gt the same  cep. i it scch ele,"shd , lefthesfeet.
o e " d  t o  a m b"                   T h e r e    st h e r e h tt h . .  w o   I h e
l o  o f a dh rs a n d  h i h  "o n 'p o"eD oo'-b eu'v e od  e i e d m e . w o un e x ci t e  h p e .
"Dnea 1" exclaie fa'tedn  r.vanagha y   n  " r  I feel death already in
dead, depmpreg ad theanorse       yaieie.  It is stealing upon me. " There is
"ela d dnme Baird e Barew. e               aicesIn my bloo  gay
'  lioked humorously at the Meor. Hi"sKeep still,  Do not tre e  ;
The  hardwork :to' keep up, don't yel" die ,but ,onc.Evngod men Ymutcdi
P eto Alethe dYouihave to tie a string once," said glethe n frucin  The serntie
round that kitten'snneck, sIfhitsgoin' ht omake v   anreart  y itse otn
them noises. wed can't st  h dmatofigh with  hland tras" goBracegirdle "sae
t   s e  e f    te    'we're going' on die easier  oethan I. n Save me!save me "
a reg'lar' hunt, I'd rather take 'algtfr. Sedopdtesa
" 1 u  try andkeep her sqile bay h  f  h ers op p  e  klin kel i bi to   t
replied' A lethe.        M .  yr. Barnabas," wound._g             xrntth
' ovbe witen by acobraPc" llo     racegirdle shivered and writh-e
"I  swo d k g w ats  omi '  n w  " said  H nt-  ."e It  scorches,"  s id  h ke   i re d  . t 'sai
ton,  who was ever on 'the alert. This query through meas lightning. fir l'! rlls ea
no sinetunghe oe ?   tWhe rad Iyuhv        ditfs    hodiat'It
referred to a sound resemblingt,.  ae kep y   heid mn.. You cite.
lop of a horse, and ;which soon proved to be ythavydeir mbe.mo e ei.,hoPOe
such.     ,,                          ta'zydsarmyb          oededu         '1.
tiowhle eyes were ,fastened 'In the" direct= Kavaah m! rpid Alethe, pointing to
clattring a ma on  orseback  Birace "rdle raised hi .eyes, nsen  h
suddenly' appeared, whom - they recognized.youo er wa gratY aaz ed. g h
It yeas iaynol- Brace 'di  ede  w: -u  "  fferdeadoms trepr achaze.heunt
his horse, with er             rwu           da    oe or
mentaten!veyign of intense excite- Ftered:                  e Iri !   ;e ll
"  mbitn!  mbitteir !" hebrie.rils  minssag sg haltigfil!the ert
paldfchis. despairing voice, 'and the slip from beneath mye fee;ilid Te oea;tI
general agitation ofi imanner, showed how godown inxto the vor te ;Ohforslieoefh-
terribly he realized his situation:mn an     toras    t"Beg irh sokeif
Thepaties looked at' him with ,dismay. gnynd             inp  f aearireorse.
Banbs a he first to speak.           H      .   inssrtainfei n hemSaohs
"what's the matter of   " he asked. hypocrinsol king w    himieblo s o
"Youtlook like saghost a horseback."  the s, inglfing humporvler. l
wilhave been ;bitten by, a cobracapello! t"eTake nij fnd!bte fore hand r "wsaid
Will yoU sit lockingdat fihe like statues?.Part-Alethe °"golhd ta! hold tfandt!"Itsail
nt somethinglbe dn    Will~od i fs
die miserably 'hbfM'A  r ,.)   Se;ie kep youovn the earth. Tt   . .

- u

phat
« "A
lor.,
'lthe

ALSTHEM O,     E     DF THE
sto hbruiseeit,'to moisten eit -4ie raised Iis right hand, whichhad the
a s, anto ris  it  oHe ele ved l ce  iit- "that  color's period  to  any
ar an or     ei  ne  other  lik it better,'ad it s better!"
in ti   t ymrgY're aanefe11tdiney"ociferated
t' ,     Sii  l e e  rp Ue r-_ a  par   a neog   lea s ~ urh
hot  et6 aeTdo           reMasr. I I should e   o
Sd      yth       thein*clads, rnd~if I lad' m ate rle
Xrn  o matter whether_ thO of LiiekfioW without Mdse of tm.
bodng..,i i b~sae           Thymk olcr of such men in Amer-
~~~~~I~~~~       WieI;B~gfdO  o  ll' lea" sad &amp;ava bl1i.
Bre blt~e  "Ip slae;v fign And bi*Vatofficers, t#oi'l = 1'f ound i"
ate poso .  t }saved ' ri--' ='she !fes'p oided the *4a or. Hg ie a e  l t:
yi                  Hutton. then &amp;t Alethe ; burt s~s~w
adv sae'log                                    pleasure
,d = f a  t.  , *  c e r e ; s  o nr-  e i t tlr
Li 1  't. Race dV  "Mount _y i      rrei1         hl  '~
le osl    a rc~e   s Ra,  eate4&amp;4Ie e, and go yoitf wa~y;  hda
edeser  tObe saved;  Ih do 'not. ger, as I have told you, is ast. Truant'
rv e,  + ae   _B, hefuurthe frie dah  id,&amp;

agh~Siould oQu  ever find thisTilac slay He arse  '  fro   n h
him  asa       e nduieptle In    sunk after the a e11 ftkiand, oie
H      o d' c  feel " 'ske  Ieth.  did not think he hadlstre n i  oe
ther    o .yt op h firig f r~the ud aed ab" lc vet his sett in the saddi5 but uponiitak
there ol  b " gghhthe would a a    c   e tral, h- fo  h  elf st Ouger'than
"I cat aii~o~ thik se" Mi Rayor h  hadthought. A pleasant languor tl
~,y  bad     W       +nr,  er saed
sowly-       T e '          .1      o (rhin. Deep t1,was su  d: y;c 3r
sl"lyink.  ai                    nCdse and fearby eenfiduii.r e
"Thin   natre  he l   ny      d    s   d're i elitent'?" whispered Alethe,
u It  t ge !? , 'There' is a g l w an  bol" f leagdo taha hidbbsen the cause of
The ice ranges t ire. I swelter-I burn  fll
"It williasj" said Alethe. .hes              Beegirdalepeneeesuffused,
"Heai e  1" eclahnied RaY  -"If le     t    fapase
my life a  atour service. I freely '1irw'th 1e f me," heaid, in a subdued
it at your feet. Treadon it, asyou.wuhudlitinconfessioi-Ieebe
a serpent, ofrise it a you please; it shall  oe  -hun6eattt  Rafihold an seeabe-
Vo ows t. nttd ipeil a" icipieflt lien. nagh-" i two, against 'iritomI =have sinned
Towe manibd,Pis bad froil hiSeoinndeeplycriare ethe confston of Confession
The Haan who is 'ad;isubi t b       ltIa   tron i-1r  f    iainhold in
tueand bad he will ever remain '  ie, illWI an  srotgek. tIf  te  noldm in
tore, rceadeh n yr horse, gu d      tie hands of Tia. Iou haste yu   a
'Mrhitheg~o ill.monyo hr 'ise'sa d   frombe able to over.,tak  tei.Do.,not delay.,
dIth nour 11.  thakef sathed ch Telfluttontoadvance with all speed."
saedh nartoatbe thanks ag- hat  i at  Whie Barnaias was assisting Alethe to
savedhi   ade     he again o dinVuid remount, the elephantshe communicated
Kavge iea Thad he did,tyou d  a  tifo nation 'she-h$  '4cbived" and they
hav died- That whichthwartedyO!alsoet for ard at a'rapid rate, followed at a slow
s  e  e d  lstem  tothis ?" saki  B er e bace bf   BracegirdI.r  .
nabas, aglow with honest earnet enthusnO          R AT XV
"For the s ke o humaanatur',I hope      -   .our  NHAT.  TENDo
fakilties are lively. The.waY I. loENthis. DT,ss.
nothi' dcanbe mioreuts tivenorathispold.boy 1Can't you stop
Lookat 'that emalla wil  e  Barnabas  Wyo   tagoi old whoa! who !" It was
leveled his arm at Alethe. The91hown yo niaon I Wh         is elephant,
ate his on a :ffectfo ,T lYlnedaand a he thi that 'Bi aasaddre sedth' "o  ra  tin  l° atet  tey}a rdensoed ielpat
had never b e      at        d   a      thef hadridden sometime with great
hd noyher ere 1y witnesss" What's this aside theroad, Iwol
dh to"la~d  avbadee°a              dootdisc   ?e aekedelookingi a an object, sitting
"Tha  e'a 1"' continued Barnabas, "that feebly  hgrod  a  akvoie.
don't peifess °to be- a hristiara ; tha do't  '   th~e ig"Th  eda'wa ie
pes otifs       et you see sha tdha eit.dot hat's the matter ofye feller-bein' Y" der
ee  b ody *11,done' it. But, Maj1or" mandled Barnabas. fl- ee "rm
he trbn to              B        o   naheb, I have been   iered I
ae te id ty#5s.The'smore whitee eponded the maanon the ground, in a hollo
in her than there is of 'tother. :10w, Major" tone.


8.A ETHE; OR, THE CHILD OF THE CORD.
"You're more fortinit thansome," said Bar-  Ida shuddered.
nabas. "As generall thing,, 6  pe ~as is,."Be calm, 'uj.da  isM~rgr a
murdered ca'ttell don't. . Aint hurtuch,   aearMiss              agregor,ai
pose, by ein'. mu rdered ?"            'Thavanagh.h                i
Speakto hi r more l:diyi.                aduon" 's gift ofe s  Mhe ilthof  ydr
seid Ida~, gently.       r         t       thfofTlu!Ith       fofgy
"It's a cussed naty     yiut.d Mee b "the gi "f .Hurdwar te sonr
bas.                  ,?        l ee  arma. Meernb 1"!
"Bahib," retmethe ,other «          "One and the same i" cried Alethe, awe
darkhskib, but;rne te ote   r, Ilaof a aid wonder-stricken. "Crafty dissembler
mortal sI have no one tohe ess your felow Archhypocrite Inferns, being a"
oret 1 not   e nan              hre-   "These"   assim went on, are nta -
forell no'log de1 ryou'"only names. $e coinualychnoti
"Wl, natyve, lay .the matterafcore us as an ohara cjer. , rnhim dwells'agesark piri
soon as you can, and afterwards 4ie at your of evil. He hasem  e thedanrk spirit
leisure," said Hutton, impatiently  uceived    e alsemp   ed me often and de.
My name,";resumed the native, "is Kas- d e.   asyu  ee ioe daib ac
qu" .cyhQaOqesooum                          he adroitlplaced upondyou,
orr t sb e  o bo                  usemand nttned Oac4 rd with the d e4 of death
q  s h allnabas. te :  "  ad  aas ' within  yo, tie fairEn  1i li gill ed  into  the
Irha iben hs rm t       nsa      j ungle. ,S~ie hid, and.; a ound her, not. I
"Bhaw  pen i armistQ: e, aid Itonl knw the spot .,where She crouched,
Brahma is thebgend."gmng                 mbing. I saw the rank grasquiver, but
lsaaakseheen."I revealed it                        not 'dntthat the, black
The voice of the speaker was lowand sol wolf h   tear her. The class of Upas are
en     dd         efarles;cruel than his. The                   irit f St
"Itis od.whoIs h.begin~ning and the that was in 'him urged hitofwScrime
end," said Ida, coilpasionatelyr  H1   e could not rest without sin. So he leaed
"                              ecudntrstwtotsn.It matters not,. lady,-';whether Icall him  upemnosdteSodaodmheckpe
Tod orCrahtar    dd,  Vsh    or     "    b I pme down, and, standing with f eet on
cah himaBrahma, and to R ,b atraname. g  my shoulders, strangled me tillx was appar-
call                    e hi  rha  n  oBa m  go-  olu dead. Perhaps I wag dead, and Brahmsa
I wish you a gd jourpey," said laan  on       tot liaahswords to
bas-.«"Let fus. not i detaiAi you. I  Rmea no m
disrespect to you no yure     man        Call him God T said Ida reverently.
in', but our haste is ouruei,be-    iir  english girl, he a ered, with
P erch nc e, S ahib  yo uhum  i t t.,  " I  w ill  call -biin  G od , if  it  please
speedrbydelayeth ai hay make more 'you. en God let 'it be!. 'I revived, as you
spe  by dela  ti bhte e [e  s   e . ,crept from the bushes, and here you
on, "1who ;has lost daughter."  ' W     "A ondw   yyo ntlv ~'akdIa
"Native," ,qried ' ai g-             " E wh~ayyu otlveP
-S i  iren"tl ve h Qd pringing :from'  gh  girl, I bleed "i" ,asdly The
hi  ore, e   m      ate of my daughter, scarlet stream of life is flow 'g intylunh
and there is no requests, will. pot  gtrsalt      o  f sfo       t my lungs
and thare eques  lltgrantsYoowhich Will soon be full." rhen it reaches
"WIht request should Ihave, Sahib I' Am my troutu, I shall Buffocae'Iwscle
Inot crossing the black water? Can you take bak -but for a brief period; and I return
er bak i       s             penthe, Without  regret to the scenes from' which I
river and let me wi5 through with 'dryifeet  havebeen wraneentlo recalled nh
No, Sahib, noai nDeath comes  u      u    a    hto seaking yh difhe-
man, stoy  or  t   high orulpw   br4nd he theeMajorabdghtercried
thas come oa me.,r     PHe h comet -yme  a rea, I                 phaIncould
i e; a  r k e  a u nd  miserable tStrang; aarmse but I hae  e r est, dhey so y
.A t .thax insta         : ; ~~can do ino .more." efmdmyisynad
Atuhamistant Brith,  le w amerii up. #a*  Iis accents were now very:Weak,anthr
im beheld Th  It i thderfgat tare  of as wasa rattling in  h throat.
trn glhernt                            e topp"Beware" a he  a d  hI   deiig-
"Net dead, Sahib, nQt 'dead '" he inurim-r cultyi"'o fTi cd, ~da~eak4rgthe
ed. "You should be -dead, httd~i haud be son of Meerab. He apars in a he
Dead, too., But that I' will shortly bQ. ;Look trust, not a shyapptearsal.influrohpas,-
tn t me, pale spectre i,'fHe pau~sed; "Lie- you are rned! Avoid the. cord, the dapiger,
tno  todof m e Th uIb s  L hok fat aly;nec rk  the othe serp nt,.ftedclgs   o eata dtepoison
is a dark welt around it; pit is a mae ;sf x the of pt theofarus'jesrn teaex
coalrd fteTu.P ti h   aa .sg of the   He stopped. again, and  seemedm~eru
Btahe "prayers.mutrg

D 69
ALETHE; O, THE CHILD OFr THE CORD.
I go," he faltered, in tones scarcely adi- not the body, but pertains solely to the
"e, "to the world  of rewards and punish- mTnd.h  indu clear through grumbleded
ents to the land of"light and the land of alrnabaS Iiu'cunear to!gmed
arkuness fit, ',                   BrtYnabas  evBut  odne  it tenoreta:itya
Kassin's b6dyBaYedhtoand fro a nomet d   a   o woman      andvnodirty
,d then fell lifeless upon the so jfoliage-  wontman ag *oow;om ,Drt and ges
. Cou dont ngit on much wthjthisholy oritter."
APER X         T            The eidman glanced at'Uas, and Upas
Rne d  at              lashed the elephant's ba.k gently withher tail.
Majof Nainbold go    ad we     r bt    We-w    t a guide, ious pigrm," said
3ai nhas Hutton,"ever active Mld raectical, Kavanag, toor it maybe ; andothemore re-
prn rmhseofioris beast, say g      ater"w ooi aybeath etme rWe
'angfroe  Meoroen eatus b at the mote from native settlements, iis better: We
,    ors me nt  W  m ay   uhi t he oo r gal ,  e in -extrem i  and  w ill  rew ard  you  liber-
jnerh abeabts." 'aY fid hep      ally ,for 'your friendly 'services:."'
"pT  , hereabouts boythank youI" said the  t is nt my manner  e u t mdl
ank vacanty  an   i  da           Withnothe Kffaira of men v I  ,but:the puf
"My dear guarin, said -Ida, anxiously, fication of my soul,"? repondedteplrm
"ydo a gu~takes eiosytohat. Ivfeel  "Good actions," repliedavangh,"purf
« d no, tke hisso eriuteylt-hsr: the soll"' f
us n  d thatd  elicent''  ill'      t"european, it may be so ; but, usually,.holy
un"arnied."  ble   ou my   od girl 'he men cannot stop to 'perform them.Inform
answeedslokingllethe while at Alethe. me'how  I may serve yoth dlecstroble
"B ess   y  s   e   h   a ttellAyeou,              ht   w ande ig  santons
"Rodkind he i " murmured'Alethe. and fakirshateaexertiou abvdse tille  with
ROWhen1ty he looksat us'I This blow die          s    e"aYoueshall have 3y aor   uifle  wih
turban is mind."  -.l' uead"intapoedothe Ma,-"I%                 ouwl
"Kavanagh, my bog aaid arnabas, "stay b   es t    ood for bo  aitad
here withthe 'gals while we okrud"     '-   Ta r    odfrbth.5lihfl and I
Th  thfu Huto and the nearly pars- ncr"," said the old man,  desiug h ely"I-
zed Maithf button u e     ming;know of an old idol temple,eP       a
when, entirely assured thatthe object of their tude of aan.erthateis little
each was not in the vicinity, they resumed not so far, and  iets a ibs less weak,i
their way.                hn hYme       olconduct'you httl
They had not traveled far; when they mit w uldubldto  his JA-e.
'an old 'manl walking oiowlysupporting- his yRinmo O   orki itte ok
bent figure -with a staff eis faCe Wasgpale " "Pand me after mywork ishdorkne en ok-
and wrinkled, his garment tatteredon-  p  ofbreest d os " fat
He emdlost in devout meditation. ',He pation bofre ' Trd-" - st---dnin an °tici-
-srelyeaed  hshedto return' the salute-"= purbs    h ms ~nils hn
tofcely raised hisoheadt u  ha         u've said, old truth-hu hiter! If you're the
"et mo qBarnabas     "             .neaus o' doin' us any  bd, I11 show ye a
We may make himusefl. Old man,w  e                     ar    merit," observed
comeyou ~'  '         'r. Htto.    k1;" sid aaugh.
come youe from ome nor        "Decide quicy' ad$a
c  uropea,1 neither came from home nor  "I have deidd," rpledtlfakir. "Bt
"TI osha me, a  Brnba, --hthe .-mu steps  are slow, and my;' limbs -feeble-
htat tnome. an IsoudnththikQestioirtze no .further,' iihd folOW patiently.
he  ha;tornbdyhio i         nkil,-  il'hd  o tetml.
neither."                              -heldblmal turned andstruck into the
im one 'that walks u   and down the jungle.    Babas addressed him several
h in pursuit of that which I have never time h r'dno ansridamng
een;,andiWhich no one has ever found" timfs, he ret ned non- are"enbuain
eIt can    e dt he   carter, for there's  l   w p  turning  ithetotheright
enough o' that onto him !" quoth Barnabas, noretnthis once -giprce 6 ]dcis ue.
uanrh," said he of the staf.        a   n  , thekirstopped Atthe sumitof a
a   s andwalterwould  do  ou more god,"  .s;anl h m ir ep eand, -p ther   'w ith  his staff,
aser araaefor, in~"facthe. ps Ad here," said Rainbold, "are the mu-
waier'ss," resumed the old man; ''regards pees."

/

A A Pit
+'IV A


70               ALETHE; OR T    E CHJ5LD'  TO~I   CORD.
"You would_ deprive me," answered the   Each retired forest the ensuing nightsit
bedevoe"o the mrt fagoo    ci    You feelings of safety and gna4 de that were the
e   dge  e h   wrd of a ch   t      I spit beet sollcjt  ea            e sleep.'  e
upon your -upees  I abhor your generosity,  Alethe was just sinking'to repose, when a
gomy wI       leavig the det to .be pd slight scratching at the door attracted her ata
byThe godsi sle rom he"   otf ,ithoftention; a:SIe nstantlyxmeubrd4ht
other   ar    lked from the    t wh    o      had been shut in onaof thenegeted
te parting salutation, and while theylook-; apartments of the temple, and forgotten. She
ed after hi.he disappeared among the;vines arose and admitted her. hee
anid trees.                             ofpesr.          hrHr demonstrations
re hraed puscus has mighty  erays,"  teu    were such, that Alethe allowed
Upasrowled  ahbas  'sAcross one side of the.room that had been
spot where the    r eves were f xed on the ssnej her,, there ,,wer several' niches, or
spotwhee te nan had vanished.    ,   sma l recesses, beforewhchugutnso
no    ihi holi n  s s, Ithoud' want lto be' sombre .stuff, pictured with 'uncouth images.
h                at    present ,peakJ,!" The niche shad probably been used for some
He mused- on, that thought.: a moment.,1 of the .services of idolatry.Alethe was glad
"What's'=comeeover you, Lethe "]he askedto see Upas, after sie h  tesAedher Joy at
uta       serving a changein, the girl's ,t4 e meeting;,retire into one of tese and lie
cotinge  . .B'arb'adown. She felt. safer for having this dumb
"ohngs Mr.Barnabas. I felt, a sligh  co aanienlpfo h          hlaetler, asn
ch;   t w     hDid you notice how pleasanty lonely.Theassoc        s
Upas' eyes followed the fakir 2"        of a; pleasing kind... What .dark rites might
"I don't see the eyes of no Upas, When' not have beenperformed in t1 at room,? It was
some others is "round " returned Bin.,Barns- unnaturally chilly, she thoh, and there
baa, gallantly.  "But there's the temple. was a supernatural awe about it
Let us push, ahead andse                                     f        lWhat'sintoapit Shsakupotheiapleabouch tha 
rec iv  ei by  a Ert e er.pothe  wee impeea                  o uechn  t ta
g    ryreasonableRpXreposal been provided for her, withouthdpsrobinand
they quicklyapproached the gray oltempe, gazed at the pale light of her small lam a
where, tohtheirs joy and psrise, theywwere n longtime. Finding th a e  ete
whe         dbylofer.she arose to 'open-a door conectinitwi
reeidgby a Bti         '     e      Mel;eae t'sandida'sianu artment. She had r
o 1 Te           be thnImainedbesveral tihmtey had both passed
rnt gentleslumbers, and then crept to her
TheA h.                    '        o n c ud   nthe  room  we  have  metio ned.
T   happoinedssof theoparties wast raO  twar  the  door, ton of s ehe  oun
,veaie              e  r 9 grae  Otbhn gt pr pse     iraednoed.
ah n  no m db  dn.  m  al hgg                 h I    t        d, upievshe  fwun
weninsforey.CT onl4rgent that 1 eli1 it fastenA ; nor would it yield, to her endear'.
ec ntwa  there, Sato and4,urphanmed.  ,Ondersa' 'to  open. it., This  struck  her  as  being
rc      te prpex   them a littles;faexceedeingd opn
ten entering the temple, thy  dartund' and closed it several times that night without
for RanortBacithde  Hand, Pereeiyed that any difficulty.
the wsnt wit them.Hastening bac toSShe next tried the 'dooracomyn unicating
the dps, Baraas swptin 'reidigh y; with'theshalls an assages, and finding it as
'no dihetrthertlly rgresdepartre; she had: leftit, erned toher bed.  hour,
wingle -totersat isy rejoiced, nots on~ perhaps. passed, and her eyes Were growing
bngaettoeaesprsne.Hsg.hay when she heard a sliding, rolling
lg, though. nnexp ected, waenot the less a movement in the wall, and lookingcrosly
welcooni, event. it was,'!the last that Ma  ,oadtercssawneofthcuouy
l ainbold saw.-of the son   f ;his-friend, ajoveardShe ,recses,:sawfoneofahecurtains
General gratitude -and great good feelin became' still; bt, recent vbrte d mor
prevailed.. The ladies at the temple received 'than'bfrtewsuseaiana
this ne w acquisition to their numbers with figure appeared. , It, was the odeoe  h
uuinedsatf     0'  arabsthdMJor     hd guided th-w, to the temp le.  Idwr
andrIwavangh    added mnaterially, to the the same tatteredg'armeta4lenduo
trebdngofte"' itte and,-. Thealls of his staff as he stood glancing around him.
the  .bu : iing al gfms  tadfthck,  bp.;c unmd e-  letew strife. A  ertdr ea o h
slaht a  ttackeahnshieat  ldb md   odman had been upon her- when theymet
wi "ou  riley;wie  f  s arpehopters, before, and now that' dread wasahude
statio   eci at windows, cQCldpick o ft an enemyfold increased.:Se  yslnaostreth
with greatoease.- -Mtersthsatrfrlssothecouh        aiet a         rah
discussed  by  the,gentle m en ,  hfe tu e w nr J ss n th cocli e eduse o  a' i t o the  ladies   ii.  T he  fald r  slow ly  turned  tow ard  her,
whliseey toedaresriptn of their flight, "Arise,"' e said, in an authoritative tone,
wihlvl neet                    and come with me I" ,;, t~

ALETEI4; OR, THE CHILI O] TH   CORD.
Alehedidno str;she could not. Her are, that, other, conserate to evil forever-
person was paralyzed withfear.    me                      tngs
thu.not ?"he added, with seveni-  He threw  off his lielihnig tpse
d'Iearestoff hisndsovr hwhiteas,
"Hast thou:not the blood of our people his han  o r  hee da
in thy veins  Wilt thou go after strange locks, an c stoobere herstydrabad! The
god v"                                aer uncle _ wed at histro t, and the
Alet's wonder 'grew greater, and the man ttle lamp and every object in the roomwas
before's  er ore  reterrii    reflected in thie moonstone s,  the handle of
before her moreeterae nh     a   hisdaggr.  is lips parted;, he rubbed the
"l"o t tfet, degenerat daughter  --    the betel-juice frow1 his teeth and
The girl began to gain strength, ifnotcopr-  ed th  white ad iavenous as ice.
age. She answered:        not laugh, but his smile was ptls sie
age.  heanswered :         a ths    "I thank you, Hydrabad, that you appear
" Go hence, old man, or I wi n  h  to me thus. Open trth is better than con-
w o wills               uld yopl y u !n o  edhypccy 4.A 11Q or known 1is-better
,~You can 'call no one. Sheudyunwcae   ory       .rfa elzdi
trythedom, ouwllfid them both immaov- ,than a horror suspect ted.,Aheaealied is
trytheoor wn        ebilbetter than a;fear;fuared.
"Treachery i treachery I" cried Alethe, myperil dves me t strength. I rebound
starting up.                       fs eakaby loathee 9   ,e"n
iCall not, No one can takeyou from me. se raised her"arm- m e w
have come for you, and you shall go."  h r.edhr .r  _     ,mnce  unwt
His manner was now threatening,ahis voice he  tan'sheaddewilnever be divid
harsh. He advanced.            "nt."eEb ads.      i wll ever dwell con-
"Who are you?" cried Alethe, retreating. ed between u a   bible,  ydrabad,
"Look at me, and see l Do not theserags hontyilioyou haseme e"
w  for me? Am I not one that wanders formourhourhasc e  T d"fea-
for the rce   oflhasererit"There was a        glem daUse. Whe, drk
H              spor        and 'bi taesofHb    grew dhrar.: Hisvfigure
the old man did not hear it.     scrni     or dfl~ youraprtu yftea'h
"If I am not wbatI have paid, who axi I dbrning fevo ofya rnsacktwih~H~
he asked wirth a sneer and a laugh.  drabad  yq  u C cpl an.~1y~ s oy
ou ar the  oof    eera1"elain      a                          i
ed Alethe' sh9 retreated t  further. Her   ed aouil- and hi lagghi
ftxed' and stony face was whie than     o ue  drbdngyWl~  enihsotti
He lyad wih ais dcsleshans wel l e dnetedPias; she dfuhted herself.
ed me."t                           taken in  ei w  rfies     hyae
nore, if that may be. But I e  "eeo     IUs"
changes these many years b          Theod UrasJ trs
ye   f have cosd m   h .  n  haemP  sTecutinsire.
lush, and her voice to gather enersy., -  bolth   Pko        g
s"Whatou    cv s,      e hagr  tth.  thr   n   ohngt
p     aart tno.ehenem togeth  ou    lir tn   r degesofslde.
wil beome;mhearyu itp.rt      of m "axbdrn instantor itflauhed ;  upoi Hy-
thIldcamnott.tl wtuhoCam.I weud                eingbodly o Tpasqni
spirit; o  whI;l ve . eprterunm  n jdrba. Thr  wo  enO"' l  'cnlit
' H  t a neerand lauh.  on danbast gla
evil. Saan will ive in  e, and i thee.  e  edae ht'e'hdos
he m'adiy fce wit hite ecomiangfto oher ws 5sliingsond in he al;and i
great fore on oy hr  us toothhe, girl, rte aishe h dnineesbhld

"".                  i,      ", .ii  . f  K ...  ...'.s'. ,rte Fw   .  A .. .:-M
4'.            F«          '     ^, ""     Pf   rI"   lj"   '14-r ..  a-tt+s."'r     l    .r+    ..+  {"1"     ","         Y                      '
"   !   .    ",       f       7JIIF'i                     . 461 -1i. '         ,                  v+e' 3  M    Yilh ^ :     !    r      s            l'                                  ''                                                                 .
-               '  '             "    9 1''   ';   .Ides"'  '" -    r   ' + 1 w...'t '   ''                                                                                                                                  -           ; a'


72"     '         ALETHE'; OR,'THE CHI=.D OF THE CORD.
only Upas. But there were pools of blood on I "Well,tht was' the'hway I looked  at it.
with a moonstone in the hadle and near one  Yes Mister Barnabas, bt n t say m chas
of the recesses, a'silken cord and' the carbon  sweeer no te s akb  b her  -voicewas
cle that had flamed at Hydrabad's throat.  body, if I ever head sich avoicflute. BIIessm
Upas crouched at the feet of her tnistress. I was simmin' in a cean o' mape m! Ifeltas,
She looked upather for approval, with her red withaboutadozeim brass a no'maple molasses
touer out ad the heat and glow of the en- Columby all to onct. Dear   Fin' oa'
coneruonhr.    'know what's into her shdaks &amp;                         taus
Alethe fell upo her knees; cast her arms wounded fond of her. shes ake, b sman
around the neck of Upas, and wept upon her gof the sperrit of Upas, when she's stirred' up.
glssA  f eu., the pure 'white don't begin
CHAPTER. XXVIII-with her!                   eam and molasses is darned
THE ATRTMENT.               sight nicer color nor clear cream. Jest drop
. Barnabas Hutton, notwithstanding the fa- 'ivesia soft mel  into the cream, and i
tigues'of the day, found it impossibeto re- ginasoft welow shade, Major."
main quietly' within,. and so went noiselessly though he changed his poattentive, and
flom the tenipleafter its inmates:had sought not a word that fell from tons -oten, lost
repose. He was somewhat surprised to find  "Speakin' o' the cream" continued
Major Rainbold 'standing silently beneath the nabas, "don't ekno  where it come from,
portals of the main entrance,            nor I don't c        wher 'i she' have
B Thought you wasin bed an hour ago," said me. I will, cbye llrry    e"
ar s.                ouMajor  "      Well,'welliThis is very queer '"mutter.
"Ntigworries me, ' Barn bas, but I'm ed the Ma or.:"Ithink,you're inearnest,
too nervous to sleep. The shock of the past d'r-            vy tin  fow, Barnbes
night-'hailsett
ngthsunsettled me.   byaeousiA            Barnabu rea ver fine fellow, Barnabas
rig, my friend i"  e.Ws are you stir- I AndBaa,     don't you mind loy d about th
Finder ,Y resless,          whiteliblood' !it'sas good as, yours, anyday.
"Kner'etls,*     o,.likeyourself. I know abouttt   bod, iad"e oh
want't look re r Methuelah, o, 'Besides her's bloodSir  b too I love ta nher oh
it's a goodrthing'in timesorb r'    theet o'be s:Wasmogthetgirleas" if she
in' ebb it con-;er'ble?i  e utto.  pY- "Xmuess 'nd    etter he ta b  hr
"o VeYtru," saidRanbld        ecan'tbe Majo    sai a   ba s     o that byher
too much on the' aid'"a'abWate           '   s "ore a  owni-lSir I" talked the Ma-
"  ' te  l y ri u  "  's aid   4a a af a  eor t  a b  c r  " A e th e 's  m y  g irl;   S ir ! y o w n   r
Itrinkely.so "Thaedhe  ther dprettyegalmSir'f'me  herfather, Sir  Her own father,
I thnMjr;headdatrpause-            ' demure"   wfater
"I ' cthaefa quite pretty, Barnabas," ra-  " she' isn't "to blamefoth,"ased
spon..d the Major.'                 rp- '' ''  Bartabas lhat,"aswered
Qo  w'e did Sou 'ielr ug that gal; -'Ma-  "She n i t",, h7- f .;
ee       iaba "                              might have had a worse father, Bar
IO erO  wa~s  ometh g  on  .'Hutto '  ind; ab    "'He looked  at  HntoIin fi nty
obviously.'' ton'' mind                     I don't know about that  I can tell 'du
ig,  de me !" ad R inb eld  B rnb  'ou've said  somethin-."
cu"A .nlb " Y                                    as turned upol hint archlyy-
crly.  I'd'"'                        '   "You're a knave and a villain, andtee
Wish I'd fod her,"' replied Barnabas' fore"-hee a oth anaba h and there-
founus    e a deal o' trouble to take care ofa fore,'my' dear bo  a h s--"there
foundli'?"'  'secret. There's Melicent; you know? Idon'
"It is," returned the Major, fidgeting.  think Mere'          t           d
hs.Itso y    ui e' o ak  hr"ffyour thinkIda has watched me rather tom  rh
ed u at the nn     enbus  Brnabas loOk-remme, Sir Ida does ko? Ive         itch
eup a the moon, then downatktenorhwh
and finally at Iainbold.  -'r confounded blackeyes a dozen times; and
h            oroWnfoolish face has as good as confessed
W at       oman bthat,'Sir      owed it on the spot"nh                aneght
the latter: 'I'm no  on   ohvegrst         '" You've convinced me that the galmih
ke %ffm  n   ds emne1 1w   talth    haawosfahr"epnddarub
girls I've 4ot, and more too,'rSir."'
-"-                      '         k~ith . hnPo.

ALETHE ; OR     THE CHILD O,©    THE COR'D.
 as spelled it out, and Idyl has a long beard and sallow countenance,' whom
spelleditou  lhey 'e speled it out, though Barnabas at once recognizedas.Meerare
they mayn't never. have2 pronounced mit.op        ise    elime's the
recon  ou  on' hare o seakon~,~Ma- great moonshe himself ! Here's the anecdote
on 'ou may write it down a a under- man ; the man of roots and yerbs, and p*icons.
jo. Yo   my rtes i dMelicen    t never I reckon there ain't no elixirs that can 'git'
ade a servant of the gal! You might seen him out o' that ei-e grip. without my help.
that if you'd had other fOlk' eyes- She made .I'm the anecdote you wat now, old gentle-
a pet on her,, and that was al.- She "ued 'to man."
set, day artery day, on acushion at her feet,  ' Wh has he got here, Barnabas I What
ut to be kissed and fondled, end have her is this i"cooll " is that in-
dark hair, played with.  There's'  abond  "TIhis ".rePlied Hutton, coly, "sta n
aw  haim: plad  ith     both'lovea that terestin' old gentleman that 'Lethe took me to
atwbeen 'e  . Har Lethe 1cralhm           the night we "igot thatlittle crooked vial
can't be broke. Ha    Lth    alher msSee terfuidtorsuf.PwrflWe          I   a
tress' onct, 'and see-if 'tisn't 'perfect 'music? of poweriXl dector-stuff  e eofrankind  'was
And look llt Miss Melicent's~ eyes when she' th p.oer'uposteI'ewas seeson- any kinds P'n
called 'mistress', and see if there isn'tisome'at opo fseIpspooe ;tlastwys ogr ose p'ily
arch and known' in 'em? I've seen the gal has to offsetp'iol; leastways o wolhfamilt
didn't see right into ye. Terrible cute,gals kn   t   uel
be "      ''                      '        Then to 'Mewthuselah:
e"a                                      "Set him down, animile, set him. down!
laying his hand  9"  Hutton'h  ar ,  ofy  Should think you's old enough  to know  how
Them tell-ta e eyes o' your'n let it out much squeezing' a critter can bear. Don't you
yer  g.Lord' love ye, Major, the gal see he's- blue-black in the face, and 'that his
ears ago.         ye de  e I vow "    arms andle   stick out at' right angulars,
adores ye::Iwish she adored  e, IVow          ostDear me !' what a weak-minded
'Barnabas sighed gently     '           'nm     tiei m!waawakidd
" The little witch says .Mr. Barnllbas rather' old elephant."
toosot sEhscrr. Huteoonus" The Maajrapushed 'abeh et,' rahronl caae atMhat
the hilt of his s rd againsteBarnabas'ribs.r                        a   e
"YsM. Barnabas!" mimickedithe Maj@.r moment'were bf *no particular, use  to, him ;
Hh!Hw'thiat sound; eh?'       -    frh fell down without an effort~on the part
"Sounds, like thurder"'longide',o''hert!" of his muscles to keep him up. Mr. Hutton
'repiedBarabas '  '      " 'bsevedthis without much, surprise
rpidBarriabas. "                            aethnoicd" he add    t hat when
" The nonsense of alnan in love," said the  ' lgiveaale   artnoticed, e ag ud  the
Morgood-nhturediY; ambushi better pleased$ Methuselah givea' a critter a grronth
Mjharas tan everbefor 'rIndeed, the  waist, it'takes the stiffenin' out 'of him. It'
simple good sense iof the man quiteacanutvetreddonthe'gro
ed he ear oftheimetuous 'Ribold.'~  1," Meera gasped and ulvered on the ground.
they wakearm in tmatoid the temple, Methuseah piped and-truampeted in a man-
conversing    aiylwalkedy'armiam d 6fd- her thateven tartledthe MajOr, at these
tiaamfinl ad=b~~e-hrta ee oate; h                            aoa te ael mannr.  While, thus engage, the "in- time making a peculiar churning motion
eae      'Methselah drew the notice of his with his fore feet,lifting"one, then the other.
mastres ho  mediately begantalking'to  "HO allers does it1 explained Barnabas,
h      im    onpecialy-    All his ele =i,- "when his toes itch to tread on somebody.
hiim in his own pequliare w   ama how- It'shis instincts, Major; and nothin' but them.
phant-talk did'not quietYousee he knows the depravityof his mas-
"There's some'at round that'he don' ike, tr'natur;           t         na
sai Htto. I'll slip his chain and let hi'nn want to fall into the de' rarity of your natur,
sago."utt'n.                             Ma; or.(' 'He knows 1k? like to put-:a bullet
Suitin the action to the word, Methuselah through that villain, as well asif he's gifted
set off with great earnestness through the j- w  human  uderstndin  See mtheahies
gle, making a 'no table crashing.- amidig the eyes at  me!. Don'tyouotbseive'the miascie
bamboos. Became back in a few minutes, in'em? 'They su 'cof h mornaboutthe
bring a man in his trunk.              and I'    e ng       him    i about the
"T                                      uks !      ht hnk     ao?,hat's the ekindo' trunk to ha~se " quoth quicktet!' W  hathimjoryt; ?" aas
]3arnabas. "A trunk a yell can pack  a man   takextinguish himajsyrset, hiangbs
in.-A regular travelin' trunk that is. What et us take him in ;we may learn something
yougotthreoldbo?  Picked up a Hindu,  from  him, per haps."
haUgot yhee   fl g him  ono''This     "You'll learn nothing' from ine," said Mee-
haven't ye Y Brighaog                  rb ab ping for breath.
way,  Sir, this way "   ' '        '    rab, s 'png orbeah
Ti elephay    "rd                       "Dn't be too sure o' that ! Jump up and
eratelyato Huttonugit ws an old  n    come along."

-v  '  Oi 5'y .   t«   =   a,.. ,  R--rdaua,


74     ,         ALETHE; OR; THE:CHILD OF;THE CORD.
Meerab, not being able to jumpup andcome -qreature,;I stand here) tonight, safe and un-
along,-Barnabas seized-him.by the shoulder harmed;, but your.soi Hydabad is torn and
and set him upon his feet, and supported, or rent byUpas. - ;He lies, bleeding and dying,
ratherdraggedhim into the temple. f   in one of the dark aSd secret recesses of this
They-hadino sooner entered the hall, than temple."
Alethe came    ' g to :them, in great disor-  "It is;false !"Aeried the oldman, greatly ex-
der, followed closel by Upas.           cited.
Hutton relinquishedhis grasp upon Meerab,  t'Show us the way my girl,'" said the Ma-
and ran forward to meet her.         'jor. "Let us us sif this, mystery thorough.
"What's the matter,.little.'n? What's the ly.",,  .  ..     sr   ,
matter? Soine'at has happened."           Alethe obeyed this bidding.  With the
"Yes;-Mr. Barnabas,":answerediAlethe, lampshe had, brought, she turned -and led
averting her eyes.                      them;to the room-whereshe, had been visited
"'Speak,. my dear, dear girl!", cried the ,by Hydrabad.
Major, taking .her-in .his arms and kissing  :Barnabas dragged Meerab-after her. She
her.                                    showed then the recess through which Hy-
Barnabas turned away, wiped something drabad had comeand-gone, and related what
wet fromn his cheeks, and pushed Meerab en.. had happened.
ergetically forward,                      Hutton=tried in vairf to solve the mystery
Alethe nestled to- the. Major; her small of his-entrance,
hands held him fast ; she sobbed onhis breast. "Open it, open it, old man !" he paid, ad-
For the first time, she felt fully .acknowledg, dressing Meerab.. -"You belong to the wick-
ed and fully loved. He whispered something ad brotherhood and know Jhe secret."
in her ear that made her dreamy eyes flash  Hutton;produced a pistol. Meerab paused,
with ineffable delight.,                scowled at Barnabas with fiendish malice,
"Say what you want to! Say what you the most relunctlantly pressed his foot upon
want to!" articulated:Barnabas, coughing and a spring, and a passage, narrow and low,,was
choking. I ain't a seboy nor a Hindu, by ,no immediately disclosed.
means. I ain't. No I It's all right, ain't it,  Barnabas took the lamp frm Alethe, and
'Lethe                            -     pushing Meerab before him,.entered. Rain-.
"Yes, Mr. Barnabas'!" sighed Alethe.  4old, Alethe, and Upasfollowed. - After- go-
"It's all right with your-with;the Major, bug a short, distance in'a- stooping posture,
and I, too, Brownie.:It is. Yes 1 He knows, they came 'to a spacipus apartment, dimly
and I know,:and.you know.; and I s'pose we lighted. A little track of blood led them on.
all-know.- Don'tlet ustalk. There's no use ,hey approached an altar of'curious, shape,
in talkin',.you know. When younknow a from the foot ofwhich arose a ghastly figure.
thing,:you know it ;and there's no need o' It was Hydrabad. He was smeared with
making' a fuss about it. He's::wllin', aid blood,-his garments rent intoshreds, and his
you're willin',.and I'm willin'.; and ,we're all face=deadly pale.r-
willin."  Barnabas stopped andglared at.  "You think you triumph !" he cried, in a
*eerab. "-Don't he lookmn' gn iat meold ;oichusky wi      ess. "But you do not,
man !"                                  cannot triumph. No one.cen conquer Hyd
"I know .who she is !" sneered Meerab. I bad.", .His eyes fell on Upas. "Ungrateful
saw her when she was a child. And- my creature !" he muttered, "you haye destroy-
son Hurdwar knows.. Yes, Hardwar knows ed this :body-this; strong palace-of my soul.
her.": He glanced at Alethe, thenat Upas. But I will find another. I will yet inhabit
He saw red-stains on her striped and shining another temple."
coat. He panted and shook with alarm.     "fHurdwar i Hurdwar !" cried Meerab, in
" Meerab," said Alethe, "-you do .well to a voice of emotion.
tremble. My power has proved greater than  "Away, old man, away ! I am not your
his. Upas remembered me ; she acknowledg- son, but the son of evil, the Child of the Cord,
ed my influence ;:she confessed the hand that the Slave of the Silent Death. Let me die as
first nourished her.; I dwelt: near your hut,, I havelived-hating and hated." He paused,
old man, when Hurdwar came in with this and grasping the altar for support, gazed a
creature. Filled with compassion, I had re- moment at Alethe.
gard to her helplessness, and warmed her-in-  " Fatal, fatal lure!" he murmured. " In
to life. :Hurdwar unmasked his evil nature. stooping to thee, I lost my power. Thou art
I menaced him with his.wrath'?-she.pointed beautiful as the stars, but every fixed and
to Rainbold -"'and he-fied;,to appear again deadly opposite  The element ofFire claims
in process-of time under- other names and in ite town. I surrender the vital spark of m
other characters. I have foiled him in all. body to the eternal Orb, Father o Light and
He has been a deadly poison; I have been Heat."
his counter-poison.  Old, man, fexecrable1. Hydrabad's body swayed to and fro. He

4

ALTHE ; OR, THE CHILD OF THE CORD.
AL~. da

75
ze and

'S..
_                ,
,, .  ,              . ,

s
.,
..
s        ,         r

"                                                i
II
,..                '     ,                                                      '         '  r            ,. a
.     .. -              ..    it      ""
"          1                          '   t    "                                            1           '     "'       '
r     1        ,a                 _      "                                                 '

-'

...,
, r i
.,   ,   f     ;
'ii ',  i
. i
..              ,-

"                                /
t
. j
/             ,       1
. .                    _
" t        .
y             f' {        r
'k
{i e

_        ::          ..
t        'i
.
.                 +
'                                                          i   .. .

,,.   , "r          ..      .
w
1  __Yi LR   RbaJ. : ..N- +, d,.     - .+w "Mi.mm. """1    .-. .,.__ +R    a i. '', M1 "_= q                                                                  _                          _
..:                                      -                                                                                                 i                                      -   -

-- -   - ^-     ,._. ,   !h'          t" _        i    -f.l    -  +%'i. h ,,, ,  . .b'r       ..«.:.3-   '   ° .. 1""     . - C  .'r. ar.                                    ,"t


FREDEBIC A. BRADY'S CATALOGUE.                                       Ii
The Young Duchess;nor Memoirs of a Erzufnie : nor the Gypsy's Vow. By Cons.,
Lady-of Quality.' By GW. M.; Reynolds. This  in MayCarleton.' (Miss Agnes Earlie.) "This is
Isa story that enchains the interestof- thereader  a  snsa   -novel but one of the et of h
fiom the        . lnrencementand thes engro#ees it to  clash. Its incident are(thrilling and its charaters
the close,;cafaiot be saidto be wanting in many of  are ably sustaned to thb conclusion.  The story
thequalitiee that  go to make up Hairstclanag vork  opens on:ahstormy night in the mcr.th of March
f                             -      ;      near the city of London and'tu'ras on the lose of s
rce -'------.--........-$0' 50         child, the daughter of arl De ,oturcy. After
mogeif-lartland       ;or the Star of nt'e         any adventures this nobleman with his fariaily,
Circu i By G. W.      Reynoldt  An admnirable   accompanied by-a -Mre. Tooseypegs--a very roe
rendition of an adrmirableromnapee. Atale of the  markable sort of American, exceedingly modest,
acev;tal of-the-and libetal'to an extent that wvould  moetse  aon  orr  ndaeii  astonish ordin.
highly sentational ordpr and eeeingly, well i.  baryiotal oane whose wellfilled purs ish'or
lusortd eu l   -  th- Yung.Duche. $ h  an euphemism, never out of his hand'-"-voyage to
,.cluin.wl  0efunii hl50~r                  America Iwhere the lost 's found.-the Lady Er.
price'.. ".."....'.'...,........'"$  5   minie who .as the fatesi li l ha~e it is deb 'ly in
Ethel frevor:        or the Duke's, Victim.      love with a.:Ranty of a 'Yenlfee who she    " all
By G"W  1M. Reynolds:  "Of the-many noels of  mafries tothe entire satisfaction of every actor in
a sem-historical oeyr, whichBthe prolific pen of  the 'Dranin and then the curtain falls. Throwing
Reynolds1 has give nto the world this one il per.  lightness- f language aside we speak but 'the
haps the best, because tii nost elaborately    truth whenweisay that'."Erminie or the Gipsy's
ten.  The leading characters are taken from 6l  Vow'' is one of those live novels which delight
stations in life, and are designed with great fide!.  and interest, leavinglong after It has been throw,&amp;
sty to nature. The plot is intricate but thoroughly aside, pleasant impressions on the mind."---New
worked up and the story terminates as all roman-  York Dispatch. Price.. $0 50  Cloth..$0 74
ces by Mr. Reynolds do, satisfactorily to the read- Love me, Leave me not.       B
er.  It is got up uniformly with the previous   Egane Ee             me     n  s by worce
editions of the author's works by the publisher  Ofggt Esq.  One of Pierce Egan's best works.
and is sold for fifty cents."--N. Y.  Disparch.  fte writings of this gentleman it is not neces.
spa          sary to -more than say that. they have been read
Canonbury       House ;     or   the  Queen's     with intense pleasure by thousands on both sides
Prophecy.. By G. W. M. Reynolds. This is a      of the Atlantic. Wherever the Englist language
very interesting story, told in, the usual graphic is spoken the romances f Mr. Egan find a wel.
vein of this well known and popular author.     come that few of his contemporaries can boast
Those who have made themselves acquainted with      Love me, leave me not" is unusually attrac-
the works of this author will read this atory with tive-the plot being worked out in a manner that
avidity. The sequel will lbe found in Ada Arundell. is rare even in the most celebrated of the roman-
Price.-.-........- ...-~- .-- "- -- -- .....$0 50  ces the press has given to the world within the
Ada Aruindell;  or the Secret Corridor,          Ylast quarter of a century."--N. Y. Dispatch.
B4d     rndl       o   heSce Crio.                 " Those who appreciate an ingenious and intr.
By G. W. M. Reynolds. This is an excellent      cate plot, and varied and excitingeincident, ll
description of life in Old England in the reign of find this novel all they could desire"-...Brooltl
Queen Elizabeth. The story is well told and the  Daily Eagle.aok
descriptions graphic and pleasing. It is the se- Price....$0 50 mailed Free of Postage.
qulo  aobr  os.     Price """"..$0 50 Empress Eugunie's Boudoir;By G.
Olivia;     or the Maid of Honor.       By G.     W. M. Reynolds.p   hsno          o     y
W. M. Reynolds. This story will exactly hit the generalavrg of such producio speiotshh
frpancof numerea drs.           n              da     ea ge   su  peucton'     thih.
fny o  ueosraes           It has intricacy of  ly dramatic, the situations are well managed and
plot ; characters familiar and interesting.  It is  the plot is legitimately worked out. Complete.
copiously illustrated in a spirited manner, and is  Price.....................$       o ,050
the sequel and conclusion of Ada.Arundell    Fa'r'                            " S
Price.......................$0 50 al. By G. W. M. Reynolds. A tale of the Old
Sybil Campbell:         "r the  Queen of the      World, illustrated in the first style of the art, with
Isle. By Cousin May Carleton, (Miss - Agnes     sixteen superb illustrations.  The most exciting
Earlie.) "This  story will exactly hit the fancy of  work of fiction ever published. Price...$0 50
numerous renders. It has intricacy of plot, char. Romance of War ;   or Napoleon's cam.
acters familiar and interesting and is cnpinusly il paign in Russia in 1812. Translated from the Ger-
uitrated by Darley in a."  spirited manner.-New  man, by Louis Rellstab. "We hold this novel the
Yorker."                            best of its class that has 'for a long time appearte
"We flid in Sybil Campbell an excitingseries of  in the Germasi language. It is a matepeared
rotnartic incidents, woven into the form and con-  historicaland military chapters wAuldtebyeits
eistency of a story chastely and skillfully devel- Ilrca ndnutryhperwud by their
yeotory A    cantJoun skic     e .    ability and spirit give it high rank in whatever
ued.b-Scottish American Journal. Price. $0 50  country it had been   written. "- Blackwood i
Neatly bound in Cloth....... .. "...... $0 75  Magazine. Pie........                  $j7
CP Copies of the above books sent to any address in the United' States, free of postage.
end Cash orders to Freeric A. Brady, Publisher, No. 22 Ann Struts, ew-Yorks

FREDERIC A. BRAD1'$ CATpLLOGUE.

to

. .  off 'Clee  r te. lovoe !A
By Cusi  $a' eCrle~i  ss of r et Erie Cf.p K in  .' yAlexi ltue luins.  This)popular,,alt.
"ThosontMans aret riety.s gen aesa~d. tohaproved himself .equutlled by none.,Thisi
chrates  ni ;frnsht t.o  apd cntr asdts  hnoubhas, y his bes  ork .  The  scene  f this
which teshe' delight of novel readers. Sunshine' story s laer AitinHaintle: romaa tfeeadca  of
whchar tenelgi the. attenn  i  r       ythose::whoh eeait
'andatoun- allternate 'ra pidlyadth enonif 1 ban0.Itis aiuamti tble nile,'a..ca  e
en ant alert. Mr ny scenes are powerful-  y be aieite. bv .,.. i 50
kept constant loether the worker tiat'fasilto  P  Aceia'ire.Dumas.
lyxtend t anig Oltpbart station enjoye4 by the CounltDe lYlaily. By A lexanre Dumas.
extend the High-piopnlrrpu.         oy~rtpit   eves  Ah   n5
author."--NeW  Yorker  idn ngland. It    ,-.  "'-.--''' -' '..$
'tThe scene ofi aenryeaid h rngdettens-oC
Isi an excising tale  and enphains the readtatu"rnn d'rc.........~ ..05
on oen ls e, it has several woodcuts and               This a
tha .av be saldSa veryA a enteA b feai rnan erlffavorth
tasinweakne'on15                 tabsqrbg wintere,    g
Neatly boun  Co th..., r..:. 075 vy  neeWg .id 'eesigto.
Lady Blanche   'tNe"orstle'saddtheon
Cottage. Dy Plaie ' b&amp;Thist reconmen -g twor s 'ory o fdeverytdaydl
romance worth  of ti  hwiu$,, recige aysnra . -hg te  ttei of; r ea
Asret e vryhigh place anorigworks of 'one hieSl enetre''  fau-v
is ntitleed ntot  et andh wondefalongkul 'gad the  ery 4". ...
fiction for its sent, nid' wondirfiil skills"ad h  cynvelrae.Pc....... 0
et en es it  "  a  tale  that; or  ' h    Sev cciniStfearful
Qu rtely "R ew pronoun  ne "a on .of ro  ce. 'o  fNe yxkad tsvein
ought t be 1ead by the whole ge'nedatieny ro- A  oyk han  th
owughce ears Summer Todrists l indmany  -mAsaeio Newpto ns (thd itostbcish-
iours reasant  entertainment in its pages."  i  i hlyinterestiil ing og ences   trill'
hours  of pleasant ent n ..,D ily  A gus ,  'ing  d isdgr wite h res t fo g  and descr 0 pi
" of."LadyBladehe'".is.oneof the  nedan  rite .t.......re fs
mo"The  or oi in the London Journal,,and power. Pricef.... ....$0'he3
most popular writer l rd grat pop larity "-^ew  -  orat3eOerbouds
his stories have acquiregreat  . $050 -kB         Tistorya un
York Atlas.'i" Prlcea -:.-..-.- .. " - - 'min~iss i. Y ac  sitlaon and character
Tep tr. Showing the best .inexcitirpl. 'g o ct Ber.teciting Plot, and
Thenna eepn heHre' i eatn1dpligs  t. I iis a ,str' wi4 ry xiigpo, and
the Hore w he Hpr e irhealth dngtosunap Its favorably with the numerous othe
tane Rr'of keeping kie  _.---  --  ,il.comprp eash r  re,
The H  tle woct.  Giving  de.... P- w oA by the's a uthor0
Tio' she Cath diseases ofwcattle, withshe best   v1  Wife:.or e oglife n Low.
ion 6ofe an dcuri them.ie:assofehone    A tlYliing tale o uife n ans
prcventig and curing   .$0 13 'Byt Greenor other romance of the day, unique
in :inciY.entpirs                           It3isprem-
Pricer -.--- - m-a-d-e- -*ShoW  plotneien  andoharacte$ 25
l  s ,       unently          live book..' Price.  -.-....
pe  l ht toewr a te letter  upon ahnosteveryt  g  r the h an d  2Low.
in  ons r b;e t  o ' u e ro s e am l '',o          of  i  a'b' t ei  i h  :  t
model    jt       a       c,              hhness andndwh c omr , -
aebc'ntbe ad nnsh c4tubdkin      eleae   f   c en  a fs 5
mdlletters oup on love free  °a j  us'  ai  ,,B  renol  pcueblin
ohap a d  e setibitera th ?l rg. as P r ce ..- -  " ' " "  -   vend w t a  a " s  o
alaffairs   io tcathe .m-os-t-  Te-ae'A: icr teft
empose             and correct t   a
epistle.  Price  . a. .  e   n en.0 3  story   ,  ..
ntrei'ca   lo rthe,  Love. Te t : By  Pie  S rice-ack a   - - th e .Crim-n asC reer'
a   iThiss a well wrttei sensationsto yryandi  q Byuitreephor This is the rt f aerie s of
ill serve the rsad ta o  hiltewa t ioushour.four  vels howi ghe  r   f -  - icon
ilays a nek pa ndereton ce -om  hsequelceP  office, andth ree   oa
nun        ti  oben is  o  w     ree ten luded In , This ok wi
the chap candsbstanti ,, lioruilin ,which' ths book'  a11iy   bno eread with 1. psre 5aQag
th'chep  n d, su  'tabet'toa lrg  cls 'price..... ....."" "
published  iIIbl l.   ~  5 acreVSlIt                   o
Wi" '~~1o ~theA v t o
The  nakein the Grass,, By Pierce  ek THar old. Price . . ,.. . $02b
Thean.Toehaprc ean itsenious and n"I'Fotes
ini lhotse_.vrid'nd" exciting 'incident, OutlaW  orte'Feo's 2rule
wl  idtitioval ill-'they c6uli  e.e.'Tis Prc. .... .  ". $
willr" ishydtat!  d  ngliash author, arias b. quiteorte
up to - atie  ~td fine twhibch Pierce Egan  d to' Ruin e"'uln~
alay'mnaes to shr6* into isWoks':Isi$BQ  of0 orth
printed iinlars  plain typean selfr'.$0 0 Bu1osh  pe. rc........ 0'2
"" " is hfthe  bove bookS .Senttiany ai]dress in tshe U Anit  tt , re o pstg
Send Caslb orders tc Frederic A. Brady. Publisher, .  2  n  tet  e.Vt

wa:.ei e.r o''e'-,t.  r

,.i r i+ . rF . y,.;4r'  C.:.':. s" 'f 1"' ,  *d "     «- ,, a i:'i,1 . #.r. - 1   .    e" . ,''r,. "        , 1


FREDEBIC A. BRADY'S CATALOGUE

War Letters of a disbanded Yolufth
teer. 312 pages. Tne 'aost humorous and enter-
taining series of Lettere ever published.  Qon-
tining a correct account of all the issues'from the
White House 'except the Greenback,: ad all the
Secrets contained in 'Abrahams Bosom.= Illus-
trated, cloth;, gilt ,back, L$ '50;' or illuminated
paper covers $1 25, EW'Mailed free of postage
on receipt of pnce.
felia, the Star of Mingreia          'By G.
W. M. Reynolds. This - admirable1-romnance-far
surpassesf any similar wQrkl Jpthe r pdity
which 'incident f911los'indldrt ,in thbld atnid
strikingly painted caactirliltics ef each'actor'in
'the 'graphic portrayal 6f the vanie&amp; passionsthat
sway the human hert,               hndaboe all if Ibhdn-
sumate skill displayed in the weaving ands unrav-
elling of the plot.-,The sequel will, be found. in
Karaman. Price..                      .0
Karamanthe:E.adi          'Chief. "By'G.
W. M.' Reynolds. Kainian Is unquestionably
one of the most -deeply absorbing works of.ic-
tion ever.penred, It abo 'nds in marvllooi' and
vividly depicted' details of incidents in the ad.
venturous life of a darng moutainoutlaw, 'iho
electrified, the 'Oucaslan region' byhisheroic
valor. -This is the seuel'to Lelia. Ptice..$d 50

True;Blue; or Sharks upon Share.         By
M. 3.'Errynm  Mr. irrvg's productions, whatever
else theyelack, never lack interest ;for: those who
read.novels for the love of reedinge them. True
'Blue is a-very spirited representative ofits -ass
Price......,......   ..2..... .$05
Jolly    ack :or Scenes at othe old Junk
'Shop   A thrilling sketch of the miseries of city
life. Plenty of entertainment is furnishe4 in this
work forthose who enjoy startling mci ient' nand
tirring emotions. PNice.. '"...... .$025
Bozing;,     *thout'a'Master. By Owen
i$vwlft. Thel  sci'4,tlfic art: atpractie 'of attack
aid' self-defencn explained in an easy manner,
that any person may comprehend this useful art.
Price...................0.3
{Bak '30ok       fo r" ue          S De  Us" ' Just
the thirg tm make Sight of ,hese dark times.
: ..Consisting of Plantation and hjgh life storied, ool-
. ered philosophy and nigger witticisms, and, fully
illustrated withnea e onhundred pictorial "Black
Sol-s.'    ""-'---P-ce-.'-   -;:-......-....:.-....$0 25
The Ameroao -Housewife and Ititch-
' en Directory  Ooritaining'the most'valuable and

c
a
{
F
fi

FREDERIC A. BRADY'S CATALOGUE.

Life uin the    Saddle, or Fthe       avalty
Scout. ,By Ned Buntline,  late of f the First Regi-
ment, New-York mounted Rifles. Illustrations by
barley  The author in his preface dedicates this
work to his old comrades of"the First New=York
Mounted liflleg dand the' Eliventh 7eiinsylvania
Oavalry, illustrating,-as it does, many of theemost
exciting scenes through which both regiments
passed in the campaign onthe Blackwater and in
the vicinity of Norfolk' and Petersburg. The Ato-
y is written in Iod Buntline's best style, and is a
most graphic, exciting, and thrilling portraiture of
the scenes and incidents of an eventful campaign.
Mied free of postage on receipt of price.40125.
Guy    Ravenel,' or flow     will it end.-A
Tale of New-York, twenty years ago. By Arthur
M. Grainger. Illustrations by Darley. Mr. Grain-
ge the author has a peculiarly forcible and pictu-
resque pen, and such a one as must be requisite
for the revealment of those startling and romantic
episodes of life in the heart of a great:'city, which
are not wanting when sought out as matter for the
subtle web of the romancer. A metropolis like,
New-York cannot be other 'than a vast arena'in
which all the fervid passions of human nature, its
loves, and its hates, its pride and-humility are con-
tantly contending, and the glittering sparks which
By ,offfrom this friction are caught by' the' ready,
pen, and combined in the mazy webs of plots and
cou'ntdrpldts. 'Mailedfree of postage on receipt of
Jack Mizzen, or the Mysterious Cruiser.
By An Old Salt. This well-known and talented
author needs he encomium; those who have read
his works know that they;;are corgpiled from the
author's personal experience, and cannot be sur-
passed in truthful depiction and interesting inci-
dents. Mailed free of postage og receipt of he
Price........................$05
Hollow Ash Hall;ATale of a Haunted
House. By Margaret, Blount. This boolc abounds
In thrilling adventures and surprisingg incidents
which those having a taste for the supernatural'
will knowhow to appreciate. This elegant work
has not been. surpassed by any 6'f thi6 talented
and charming authoress' best efforts. Author of
"A Dangerous Woman," "Orphan of Charnley."
"Downe Reberie,' "Kitty Atherton.'' Mailed
free of postage on receipt of price......$0 25
Sibyila Joy, or the Mysteries of the
Brown 'Stone House. By Dr. J. H. Robinson..-
Illustrations by Darley. This new work by the
above popular author will delight those who are
fond, of striking incidents and interesting - denou-
ments, au l is one of'the best of his works yet
published. Mailed free of postage on Ike reccipt
Price........-.-.. ..,-..........$0 25
Sadia; a Heroine of the Rebellion,,A tAle.
of this war, founded on facts with real characters.
By Ned Buntline. Illustrations by Darley. This
story itnore-accurately attd truthfullydepictsthe
stirring scenes and incidents of the present war
than any other tale of the American Rebellion
that has yet been published. Mailed free of post-
sge on receipt of psce..............-.$025

NoU .'ar or  or tbQGhost of Black Al
ley.=  By    J3..E:'Robinson.  Illustrations by
Darley.- Those who have red "Good-for-nothing
Dick," "Scotto the Scout,  "Cepherine," and
'other popular Toles fromtthe pen of the same eel-
ebrated author need no word of  *'nmedation of
this new tale to' lidue theint o bail its appearance
with extreme delight;.suffice it'to say that " Noll
Darker" is a Romance of the first class, and is a
worthy predecessor of the series of brilliant Tales
iby the best'writers of the age  which characterise
the series so favorably known as the "Mancuat
.Tosu5ss.'  Matileiifree ofprsatg e receipt
Price...................,......$025
A     arriage of,Mystery, 6rthe Lost
Bride. By Lady Clara Cavendish,, author of~
"Woman of the World," "Lisa," "The Divorce"
" the Fallen Star," "Margaret," etc. .This is
one of the most charming and instructive novels
thistalented author has produced. Let all who
would enjoy ,a rare, intellectual, treat read this
book. Maled free of jostage on receipt of! t
pie.- --                     -    .$0 50
Faniy    D   E Laoy,    or The Clandestine
Marriage.  By Ellen Wallace. The Clandestine
Marriage-possesses a very high order of merit vc
a novel. Its scenes are full of thrilling interest._
a' its  characters ate persons who rat once engageoutri
feelings; and its good style and execution are
chaste and finished. Itis the best novel we'havre
read-for months,  Mailed free.of postage'on 4o
'ceiptofr     .      .        .      $0 50
Downs Resarve; or The. Mystery               At
Wishing Well. By Margaret Blount. Illustrated
by Darley. The readers of this really charming
and delightful tale enjoy a rich treat. Of all the
popular and attractive stories by the same success-
ful author there Is not one that equals the faciuia-
t g interest which characterizes Downe Reser're.
Miledfree of yrostage ont receipt of ric,$0 50
Nellie, or The Compaions of the Chain.
Byfarf x Balfour   sq.  With 15 full-page i1-
lustrations from .lesigns by' Darley.' One of the
most engrossing novels we have taken up for some
time. It bears she impress of-a master-hand,.and
gives evidenceof a deep knowledge of the human
heart. It contains a great deal of most interest'
ing reading, beang=one :ofrthe, most extensive'
books of this'clere-.containing two hundred and
ninety-three pages of closely printed matter.
Mailed free of postage on eceipt of price, $0 75
SPE CIAL..'NOTICEe
If you do not see the Book you want
In this catalogue, do not on that account decline
sending to Fi0iAic' A. Baarr, No. 22 Ann-st.,
New-York, for it. He will send you any Book
you wants-or in fact anything else, from a needle
tota Steam-engine.  Enclose the money for the
Book or article you may require to the above add
dress, and sign your Name, Town mnd State, and
JyouWill receive by return of mai os express, twe
Book or Article you desire.
Pe sure and address
Frederlo A. Brad
No.22 Annst.. Ni. Y.

C

original receipts huih all :the various branches of
Omar Pacha.:        or the '  izier's Daugh.     ookery,'togetherwith collection of. mistel-
ter. By G. W. M. Reynolds   The scene of this  laneous receipts anddirections relative td House
story is laid in the east. 'The author's descriptive  wifery,  Price....,..................0 5
powers is shown Inlove'jiastageihlich anet'weet-  ':.
ly and!pathetically written: 'In the idse 'of an- Ho  O     1t^'Coo6  ^d  how  ' Carve.
guage there is great re'diresi and Telicity; Alto-  GYving plain and easily understood directions for
gether itfi an attractive romancee, in' Whideh'the  preparing cooking and serving'*ith' the greatest
interest of the =reader is pretty well kept up to  economy every-kind of dish; also, how to carve
the end. The 'sequel to this sory will'be found  all kinds oftmeat, poultry, game andfish.
in. ktharineVolmar. Price.,.......050           Price..............................$0n
rCatharine     Volmar: 'or       a   Father's Lionel Jocelyn        'Dy Piere E5an      So'
Vengeance. By G. W. 1M. Reynolds. A tale of the  quqi to 'Love me, teave tne not," :by the same
Russian Empire, and the only 'val of the famous  author.. A Tale of Real Life. it-is the latest,
Count Monte Christo. It is full of deep intricacy and inthe' opinion 'of Literary Critics, the best of
of plot, and will be read by all. and prohdunie ' pierce e Egana wgrks. ce
a first class work of fiction,  Concluded' 'i -the                'ric.      ..      5
White Lady. Price..-.............-.$0'50 Count de iMailly.          By. Alexandre Dn-
7h'            '       nMai" Sequel to "Olymla ' of Olves."  This
The White Lsady., By . W. M. book is acknowledged by all who 'have read it, to
Reynolds. A romance of love and:war.' Asto rbe the :best Tale of Romantic Fiction  ever writ,
that engrosses tie readers attention frontthe first  ten. Price...... .,50
to the last page. A tale of the sensational'order "
and well illustrated. Sequel' nr d conclusion ofB rnaby, pIe Sand-hler; or the Plan-
Catharine Volmar. Price---..-.    X. $0'50  ten's Ruse.. By l. 'I. Robinson. The hoiks
of'bis author have always beeui egerly sought
Wagner: ;or the       Wehr, Wolf.     By (.      after and have met with'unprecedented success.
W. M. Reynolds.  The scene of this story is laid  Price'   .....-... .'.. .. 0 25 "
in Germany, and-is'-undoubtedly the' author mbst ;
exciting romance. Complete.  Price..0 50 The Orphan of, Charnley.             By Mar. j
aat  ife-n L~d~n  nd Pris  r th    garet alount, A Story of one own timess, and
London and Pari; or the          surpasses in absorbing facination any pages ever
Adventures of the Marquis if Waterford. Racy   written. certain it Is,'tht a better Romance has
narrative. Pde- - - --... . .-5.0 25 not appeared for many years. Price....$0 25,
E       N Copfs of the above books sent to any address in the United States,free of ostage.
end Cash orders to Frederic A. Brady Pub4skee No, 22 Ann Street     r    -

f%
f
l
.
Y
+S


FREDERIC A. BRADY
Pub~s1er &amp; Bookseller,
-No 2 ANN'STREET, New-York,
Gives prompt rend particular attention to the immediate execution of every order
which may be entrusted to bis care, and the same forwarded,,by mail or express, on
the day it is receivedni
Having 'full and complete ar4 ngements for that purpose, he is prepared to furnish
Any Booi, no matter by whom published at the
Publiehe '#Lowest Cash Prices.
BoOKSELLERS, COUNTRY MERt0HANTS, CANVASSERS, PEDLARS, NEWS-AGENTS &amp;0
in any part of the United States, will find that by sending their orders DIRECT To
iE that the same will be as expeditiously 'and carefully: attended to as if they
were in New.York City themselves, as my1 business is 'entirely and 'always under
my personal supervision.
;All Orders for my .Pu ablwtns should b eent to me direct to: event delay.
PRINTS             APS, PLAYING-CARDS,'
A      11C.uiiiOl.          .tctionerlT3r,                c.        C.
Will be purchased for my customers, carefully packed and sent with their orders
for books.
W- Send Cash Orders to
'1 T. 2    AnnStxeet '.


  
             
         
       
   
