
    ----CITATION----
        Porter, Linn Boyd, (1851-1916). Caring For No Man .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC7479
    ----FULL TEXT----
         
      
         
            Caring for no man 
            
               CARING FOR NO MAN A NOVEL   BY  LINN BOYD PORTER   BOSTON WILLIAM  F. GILL & COMPANY 309 WASHNGTON STREET  1875   COPYRIGHT. LINN BOYD PORTlER 1873   TABLE OF CONTENTS.   BOOK THE FIRST.    CHAPTER                           Page I. THE PEARL STREET HOUSE,  . .   .  ,     .  5. II. OUR LITTLE GIRL,  .  ..   .  . .   .  . .  8. "I. THE MAN AND THE CHLD,  .  ....     . .  .  14.  IV. NEITHER LITERATURE NOR LAW,  . .   .       i. .. 16. V. A SCRIPTURE LESSON,' .. .  .  .  .  .  . .    20. VI. THE COMNG STORM,  . .   .  .  . .  .27. VII. PLOTS AND PLOTTERS, ..  .  . .  ..     .    34. VIII. THE DARK GENTLEMAN,  ....     . .  .  ..   39. IX;; WRECKS AND RUIN,  .   .  . .  . . .  .  .  44- X. LEFT ALONE, .  ..   .  . .  .          50. BOOK THE SECOND.  I. AFTER THE STORM,          . .. . . .    56. II. A MELTING ICEBERG, .   .       .       6o. . 60. "I. A CHAPTER OF CONSEQUENCES, . ...   .   . .    64. IV. A NEW LIFE FOR ELLA,  .' .  . .  . r  .  ,   69. V. ANDERSON AN OUTLAW,   . .  .  .    .  .   75- VI. HENRY WALDEN MAKES A, MSTAKE,   ...    . ..   8I. VII. A NEW PROBLEM OF LIFE,  *  . .        .  86. VIII. DARKER DAYS FOR ANDERSON, .    . ..   .  .    94. IX. GOING INTO 'THE LION'S DEN, . ..            102. X. GUILTY OF MURDER IN THE FIRST DEGREE .    .  .   10. XI. VALLEY OF THE SIIADOW, .   .   .   .  .   117. .$    1BOOK THE THRD. I. SCENES ON THE SCAFFOLD,  ......     .  .     125. II. His SIN COMES HOME TO HM,-  .    ..  .     I132. "I. FATE, GOD OR CHANCE IS DRAWING HM, . .  . .   138. IV. LOST, AND FOUND AGAIN,   .     . ..   .  . 144- V. THE BEGINNING OF THE END,   .          .,52 VI. EXPLANATIONS,  ..   .   :.            6i.* . VII. PARTING WORDS,         . .,         I69.   CARING FOR NO MAN.   CHAPTER I. THE PEARL STREET HOUSE. In a city bordering on the Atlantic seaboard of America-which, I say not - and which, it is no matter; in the month of December, in the year. 1850; in an upper room of a strange looking, secluded old house on a quiet side avenue known as Pearl street; was sitting, at'a large, -old-fashioned desk, one wintry evening, a young man of the age of twenty-two years, writing. Only twenty-two years! An age when many and the most of men are learning their. first important lessons in responsibility; when they are fresh from the sweet influences of a home, where they have been jealously guarded from evil associations by a loving mother and sisters; when they are turning the opening pages of the book of Life, and marvelling at its wondrous and difficult problems; when they are. feeling the first im- pulses of ambition, and planning to excel among their fellowmen, that they may reach some day the summit of that hill whose head towers far above them! The young man who sits writing in that quiet room has had no such ex- perience as this. The age of twenty- two finds him farther advanced in ex   perience than many are at forty years. He has travelled far among men, has seen many strange countries, and has learned much from them.  He has even written books which have made their mark in reading circles. The manuscript of his third work is that on which he wields his pen to-night. He is writing of Man, the creature he loves best to study, and which he has studied well. He has been with him on shipboard, in the lonely forest, in the villages and cities, and he is his favorite theme. But if there is one creature on earth of whom he knows nothing, that creature is - Woman. He had  mother, you say? She died at his birth. A sister? None; nor any little playmate of the sweeter sex. He does not care for this, or even think of it, ever; he is only twen- ty-one, and there is time enough yet for that. Perhaps so; who can tell, as to- night he sits in his room, writing? It is an old room, bearing the marks of age as well as the rest of the old house. A bright fire burns in the grate near him, and a bright light is cast over ris desk by the lamp upon it. A tall book-case by his side holds volumes ranging in character from Shakespeare, Calvin and Paine, to The Hunter's Guide, and the Philoso- phy of Trout Fishing. Common arti- cles of furniture are at hand, whose   iI orign is of no recent date. Uponthe wall are hanging, supported by pegs ; and hooks, a strange assortment of engravings, hunting knives, rifles, shot-guns, game-bags and other arti- cles of asimilar nature. Three doors open from the room. One of them leads into a large hall, from which : stairs go down to the front door of the ? house. The second leads into a bed- room. The third door opens into a back room, filled with hammocks, oars, barrels, rubbish, and bits of iron, stone, cotton and wool. While the young man is writing, the winter evening is cold outside of his room. The weather is boisterous, the wind howls dismally, and the snow is driven in angry masses against the lonely building. Inside of the room however, the air is pleasant and mild, seeming all the more so by contrast with the storm outside. He knows nothing of the storm, of the cold, or of the snow! He is writ- ing, and the line which runs straight from his active brain to the characters his rapid pen leaves upon the paper, admits of no-foreign object's interven- ing. Sheet after sheetis covered and 1 laid upon the pile before him, the pen  is dipped again and again, the hours  fly by unheeded. At last, when the c echo of the midnight stroke is dying t away from the city's clocks, the chap- i ter is. endel, the pen laid aside ;, and ] the young man moves back his chair c from the desk, and looks at his A watch. "Twelve o'clock! Giacious!"   t A very handsome young man he is, c as he sits there with his head resting s on one hand, watching the blaze that t comes from the grate. Rather tall, c good figure, erect bearing, firm mouth, a high forehead, fine eyes, and above t    all, the heavy masses of dark, brown hair which are gathered away from his brows and hang about his neck,  are enough to distinguish him any- where. He is dressed in a hunting- frock, neckerchief, light pantal6ons, and slippers. Yawning a little at the lateness of the hour, he sits musing over his evening's work. "Another chapter for my new nov- el. A few more weeks, and it will be ready for the printer. It ought to be  the best book yet, considering that I am getting more accustomed to the labor. How surprised I was when J'ones & Co. came to offer me such a price for another book, relying wholly upon what I had previously written. Well, I told them they should not be disappointed, and I have tried to keep my word. If this story succeeds, I shall be obliged to put my price still higher next time, or they won't appre- ciate my value." The young man smiled at the hu- mor of the last idea. Then he grew sober again, and stirred the. fire thoughtfully. "How strange it all seems, to look back upon my life and see it all spread out before me like a map! What a curious map it has been! In some respects it has been a hard road that I have come over, but I would not give up one step of it for anything. It has given me independence that is of more value than I can estimate. What would I have been if I had been petted as some boys are? watched and tended for fear I should get injured or catch cold; if I had been sent to school by anxious friends till I was twenty-one, and passed my youthful days in manufacturing excuses to stay at home by the chimney corner; oi taken a sudden fit to become a schol- . '     '    ar, and filled my head with a mess of 1 Greek and Latin nonsense; and come to be looked upon as an 'exemplifica- 1 tionof how much a man can know and not show it The idea is horrid, I am ire." The speaker shrugged his shoulders disdainfully, and stirred the fire again.  "Wouldn't I have made a handsome prodigy for schoolmasters to gloat over, and show off to Committeemen on examination days; to be won- dered at as a very smart boy while I spoke my piece at the Sunday School Concerts, and perhaps got my name in a newspaper next day; to be pet- ted by old women, and patted on the head by young men.  I thank my stars that I was delivered from such a fate. The idea is so absurd, though;" and the speaker curled his lip as he drew the distasteful picture in his imagination. "How many fools there are in the world who think themselves fortunate that they were born rich, and can live without honest labor of any kind. How many fools of fathers (saving the disrespect) who carry their gray heads so proudly because they have money to leave to their graceless, spend- thrift sons. How many fools of moth- ers (though they mean well enough, GOD bless them!) who think their boys will be better off than their neighbors' because they can wear broadcloth instead of .homespun, and never need to exert themselves from their cradles to their graves. But worst of all are the sisters" - he did not use the harsh term this time- "who spoil their brothers morq than all the rest can, because they have more influence with the blockheads." "But I? bornmiles from the hab- *tations of 'men, cradled by a rough 9   father in the cabin where my mother died in giving me birth; drinking in health from the fresh air of heaven, and learning the language of the wolf and panther almost before I could lisp a word of English; brought up as I was in that Southwestern wild, I would not exchange my boyhood for that of any prince; hearing the fall- ing of trees beneath my father's axe, watching the young corn springing into life where wild beasts had roam- ed for 'centuries, playing with my pet foxes and bears as other children play with their mates, I was happy. And thou, O my mother, if it be permitted thee to look down upon me to-night; me for whose life thou gavest thy own; I thank thee yet that thou didst prefer the wild life of a poor hunter, whom thou didst love, to the luxurious living of thy proud father's house " He fell into a deep reverie, and was only aroused by hearing the clocks striking one. He arose and opened a window. The storm had ceased, and the cold stars were shin- : ing on him, serene and frigid. The snow was lying several feet deep about the yard, while the great trees * were bending under the weight upon - their branches. , "I must go down and clear the * walk to the street," said the young  man to himself. "It will be frozen r before morning, and besides, a little I exercise will do me good." The slippers were drawn off and re- t placed by a pai' of high-top boots. d The frock was covered with an over' - coat, from the pockets of which a pair: n of gloves were taken. A fur cap was e placed upon his head, and taking a snow-shovel from the back room, he - went down the front stairs. h  The house was an old house, as   hasbeen said before. It might have been a jail, from its barricades and locks. Every window was barred-- every door was barricaded. When the young man bought the place, there was a great iron lock on every door, besides an iron bar and a chain. On every door there was an iron bar, lock and chain still. Undoing the chain, taking down the bar, and turn- ing the lock, the young man opened the door and stepped out. On the street side of the door there was painted, in old black letters, the name of the owner: JAMES ALBERT ANDERSON. CHAPTER II. OUR LITTLE GIRL. Winter clung to the earth this year of I850-51, until people began almost to doubt whether there would be any spring at all. At last the snow melted down under the sun's rays, the little streams thawed out, the ponds became free "from ice. Then, suddenly, the north-wind came down upon  the scene, a cold snap set in, and direct- ly everything was frozen over again. The poor suffered greatly from the chilly aspect of the weather, many of them having exhausted their supply of coal and being without funds to procure more. Children, where there parents could afford it, came in for new mittens,' cloaks and boots; and it was really wonderful what an amount of trouble and expense, this well-meant visit of the North-wind brought in its path. The generous men of the city set about relieving what necessities of their poorer friends they could, and as usual, Albert An- derson was not backward in the work.   Still there were many cases that could not be reached, and the cold was not relished by the majority of the people. In our worst misfortunes, however, we can generally discover some ele- ment of pleasure, and even out of\his fearful cold weather that brought dis- comfort to hundreds, there were many who found a large share of enjoy- ment. The ice on all the bodies of water was several inches thick, and of a splendid smooth surface, making it a great attraction to lovers of skat- ing. Every available skating ground near the city was crowded with young folks, taking their recreation there in the liveliest manner. One of the finest places of this sort was at the west end of the city, a short dis- tance above Pearl street, and here the gayety of the scene struck Anderson, as he rode by one morning, on his way to transact some business in that section. Recreation of this kind had not been a common occurrence with him of late, but he had in past winters spent many hours upon the ice, and was a thorough master in the art of skating. Asudden desire to try his skates again came over him, and he determined to take the first spare hour he could well command, and come up to this place for a little prac- tice. Towards evening of the follow- ing day the opportunity came, and he soon fdund himself gliding over the ice with the best of his companions. The  unaccustomed excitement brought the color brightly into the young man's face, and his eyes spar- kled with a light they had not known for weeks. He grew decidedly hand- some under the beautifying influence of the frosty air, and was looked upon with smiles by-more than one of the fair sex who noticed him. But he knew little and cared less about the   mysteries 6f the sport called flirtation, and never dreaned that his bright eyes and perfect figure were of inter- est to any other than himself. He had read some novels containing tales of love, but he had glanced over them as he might have done a detailed ac- count of the condition of the planet Jupiter,- as something which he did not understand, and never expected to need. His business through life had been for the most part with men, and he-only thought of women as the beings who performed the duties of cooks and chambermaids, Many of his friends had taken some of these creatures for their wives. That might be all very well if they chose to do so. For himself, he preferred his boy Sam, andthe neighboring restaurant. He acted the true gentleman when- ever he met ladies, but it was the re- sult of nature's breeding, and not of any acquired knowledge of forms and fashions. Sentimentalism- was un- known to his nature, and even in his books he had avoided this field, in fear that from ignorance he should make some blunder.  He had no guide in this matter but the xwritings of others, and these he never took to shape his own. He wrote only of what he knew, leaving other matters for the future to reveal. Up to this time, then, he had never drawn a girl- ish character, never having had an opportunity to study one. He never doubted that opportunity was yet to come, and'come it did, though not precisely in the way he had pictured to himself.  The young man was clad on this day warmly and suitably for /winter, and hardly comprehended that the - mercury was in the twenties. He wore a thick suit with woolen under- clothes, boots which came above the   knee, fur, gloves and hat, and a heavy, flannel-lined, black over-coat. Around his neck was a bright-colored Roman scarf, fastened with a large soltaire diamond pin. After skating for over an hour, he sought the shore, and just as he had seated himself on a bench and was about to unstrap his skates, his eye fell upon a little fig- ure near him, between whose clothing and his own there' existed the strong- est possible contrast. The figure was that of a little girl, clad in tattered shoes and stockings, a faded dress and hood, with a very old and thin shawl wrapped about her shoulders. Her hands were bare and red with cold. Over her neck was passed a small strap that supported a tin waiter on which lay a few sticks of candy and rolls of lozenges, explain- ing her business there on that freezing day. That the girl was suffering acutely from the cold was evident from her appearance, and the contin- ual stamping she kept up to keep her. feet from becoming entirely sense- less. Her shoulders, too, were often shrugged and her shawl wrapped closer from the same reason. But in the blue eyes which peeped out from under the old hood there was not a sign of a disposition to falter till her day's work was completed. Cold the girl was certainly, and sadly she needed her supper and warm room, if she had any, but the candy must be sold first, for in it lay the money to buy her bread. The golden curls which were swept back from her face, were tangled and unkempt, but she had no thought of her appearance. A hard life, truly, but better honest la- bor than to beg in the streets. All this you could read in the sweet face of the girl, and Albert Anderson read part of it there as he glanced up from   his seat before he took off his skates. Always quick to notice distress in his fellow creatures, and always will- ing to relieve' it when it was in his power, the young man determined instantly to inquire of the girl whether she was in need of anything, and to .help her if he could. It was as natural for him to feel an interest in any one who was in trouble as it would have been to follow out his in- stincts in a more selfish direction. He, therefore, without giving a thought to anything but the impulse of the mo- ment, was just about to call the girl, when she looked towards him, and seeing the movement came over to where he sat. "Did you want some candy, sir?" she asked, as she came up. "No, not particularly," replied the young man, "I wanted rather to ask you if it was not a little too cold for you to be out in your thin dress. It is nearly dark, too, and growing colder rapidly. You should not stay out after this time on any account. If you do, you may get a cold which will keep you in altogether." The girl looked at the speaker sus- piciously, hardly knowing how to re- ceive such a strange speech. Then recollecting herself, she answered: "I should like to go, sir, if my stock was disposed of. But I shall have to wait some time, I am afraid. Customers seem very scarce to- night." The girl was turning away when the young man spoke again. "Wait a minute," said- Anderson, thinking of a new way to catch her attention. "How much is your can- dy worth-what you have left?"He took the tray up and lifted the strap from her shoulders gently as he said it.   "O, I don't know; about fifty cents I should think for the whole of it." "Well, I will give you a dollar for it. There!" kicking the tray with his foot and sending the candy flying into the snow - where it became the plunder of a lot of urchins who rushed to the place - "that disposes of that trouble, and here is your money. Now sit down - here a minute on this bench and let me talk to you." Not knowing how to receive such an offer from such a well dressed gen- tleman, evidently far above her in life, the girl hesitated an instant, and then being reassured by the pleasant smile on the young man's face, sat down on the end of the bench farthehst from him. It'was getting quite dark and the couple were unnoticed by the skaters, who were intent on their own enjoyment. Anderson's first act was to take off his heavy overcoat. and hand it to his companion. "I am too warm, myself," he told her, "as I have been exercising so much, while I am sure you must be cold. Please put the coat around your shoulders while you sit here. I will not detain you long. I only wish to know whether there is not some- thing that I can do to help you. I am young and have plenty of money. Speak out and don't be afraid. I only wish your good, and no one shall harm you." The girl listened with surprise, and stared in unfeigned amazement at the\ young man. Why should he, a stran- ger, take such an interest in her, a poor candy girl? Still, the gentle- man had a kind look, and had already helped her by buying her candy at a large price. She could at least an- swer him politely, and she proceeded to do so. "Since you wish to know about   myself, sir, I can do no less than to answer you. I live in Cross Street, down by the water, with an old woman who boards me for what I can earn selling candy. I have been with her for nearly three years, and it is the only home I have, My father and mother have long been dead, -and I nust work at all seasons, or this old woman, who took me from an orphan asylum, will not give me anything to eat. That is my story, sir. I hope you will not think I am complaining, or finding fault, but as you asked me I could only tell you the truth." "My pobr girl," said Anderson, inpulsively, "Is this story indeed true? Well, you shall live so no longer at any rate. Come with me, and I will see that you are provided with a good home, from which you will never need to go out to sell candy again. You shall have plenty of warm dresses and go to a school. How would that suit you, my little girl?" "Oh, sir, that would be very kind of you," said the girl, joyfully, "and I thank you for your offer, but can I be sure you will do all this for me? Excuse me, sir, but if I should leave Mrs. Jones, she would never take me back again, and then I don't know what I should do. Have you a wife, sir, or a mother to whom you would take me?" The young man w as a little per- plexed. "No," he answered, lightly, "I haven't a wife, nor,"-more soberly- "a mother. But I can find a home for you with some of my friends, if I pay for your board, which I am able and ready to do. As for your trusting me -where did you say you lived?" "In Cross street, sir." "Oh, yes, in Cross street. Do you remember the wharf they call Brown's C .   Wharf, near there, and the sign, 'J. A. Anderson, Broker.' Ah, you do. Well, that-is my name, and here is one of my cards to prove it. Now there are my references, young lady," he added, laughingly. "You have the advantage of me in that particular, for your ingenuous face is recommend- ation enough for you anywhere. Come with me down to my house, now, and I will see what I can do." The girl stood still again, half uncertain whether to trust so much to  a stranger. The young man busied himself for a minute in removing the skates he had until now forgotten, and taking up his overcoat which she had laid down for him, he put it on and buttoned it tightly inder his chin. Then he stepped to the girl's side and sat down close to her on the bench. He took her hand between his warm gloves and asked, "What is your name?" "Ella Hastings," she answered. "And will not Ella Hastings trust a man who has offered to find her a home and friends, or will she rather go back to her old life, and suffer on from day to day selling candy in the cold?" He bent down-they were all alone by this time--and looked into" her face, awaiting her reply. She re- turned his glance timidly, hardly dar- ing to answer. Just then a gust of wind came howling througl the air, chilling the girl's frame, and almost freezing her blood. That was the decisive point. 'She rose and pre- pared to accompany her friend. "Will you trust me, then, Ella?" "I will trust you, Mr. Anderson." And they walked away together. As they left the place the young man espied a little roll of something in the snow. He stopped to pick it   up and opened it. It was only one of the-roIls of lozengers from Ella's stock, which had escaped the sharp eyes of the boys who had scrambled for the remainder. Ten white wafery things rolled out into his hand. He saw what they were and laid them away in one of the pockets of his overcoat. Where should he take the girl of whom he was now the self-constituted protector? This was the next thing to be decided. To take her to his solitary room in Pearl street was out of the question, as she would need to be under feminine charge. He thought over his list of lady acquaint- ances, which was not large at best, but there was none to whom he could go with confidence and ask them to take in this girl and give her a home. But he was not the man to give up at trifles.. Neither would he look back after having undertaken a work.' He had made the girl a promise, and it must be kept. There were plenty of institutions where she would be re- ceived-but that was not the thing. He had told her she should have a Itome, and she should have one, no matter at what trouble. Thus thought the young man, as he walked along with his ward. And she said not a word to distract his attention until he came upon an idea suddenly, and spoke first. "I have been thinking, Ella, of the best place to take you for your pres- est home, and had nearly given up my hope of finding you a good one, when I remembered one lady who I am almost sure will accommodate you at my request. These omnibuses go near the place, and we will ride di- rectly down there." He hailed the driver and the two entered the vehi- cle. This lady," he continued, when   they were seated, "lives in the block known as Giles's Row, on Jefferson street, and her name is Mrs. Haynes. I happen to own the block and she hires her tenement from me. She is a widow lady in moderate circumstan- ces, and I think would prove a very pleasant person to get along with. I have hopes that she will board you until we can see what will be the best thing to do for you ultimately. Of course you will promise to give her as little trouble as possible and obey her in all reasonable things. You will do that, won't you, Ella?" The girl looked her gratitude as' she answered:: "Oh, Mr. Anderson, I will do any- thing that she asks me to do if she will take me and be kind to me. I will work for her from morning till night if she bids me. I will- do any- thing for her or you, if I can be kept out of the streets' " "I am glad to hear you say that," he answered, pressing the tangled curls back from her upturned face. "Only continue to meet the approba- tion of your friends, and you shall never be exposed to harm. I do not know what' I would not be willing to do for you if you prove worthy." They left the omnibus at a cross- ing, and walked through several short streets before he ascended the steps of Giles's Row. A ring at the bell brought to the door a pleasant-feat- ured lady, about forty years of age, who saluted Mr. Anderson and his charge cordially, and bade them come into the house. It was Mrs. Haynes, herself. "Step right into the sitting-room," said Mrs. Haynes, briskly. "There is a fire here, and. we shall be all nice and comfortable. There, Mr. Ander- son, you take that large rocking chair, j   and the little girl shall have the small one. What a cold day it has been, hasn't it? It seems as though the winter would never end. I hope you are well, Mr. Anderson, though it's a wonder you are not down s ick abed before this. You work hard enough to kill most men. Why don't you get some one who can manage your busi- ness for a while? You look as if you needed a rest." The young man was well used to the ways of his tenant, and paid not the slightest attention to her voluble discourse. He came at once to the object of his visit. The lady had glanced curiously at Ella when they entered, but was too well bred to ask questions about her. When she ceased speaking, Anderson said, abruptly: "I come to ask a favor of you, Mrs. Haynes, which I am certain you will not refuse me. Yes," seeing her inquiring look towards Ella, "you are right, that's it exactly. It refers to our young friend here, Miss Ella Hastings, whom I have taken charge of, she being without lawful guardians or protectors. She has been living with an old woman in Cross street for three years, but her situation there was not suitable for a young girl like her. I want your assistance in my plan of doing something for her in the way of education and the like. Will you help me, Mrs. Haynes?" The lady made a reply that was hardly a direct answer to his ques- tion. "Cross-street!" she repeated with the least shade of repugnance in her tone. "You must know, Mr. An- derson, that it's a very bad neighbor- hood over there, where the lowest part of the city's people live." Ella looked disturbed at her new- found protector as she heard this speech. But he stooped down and   whispered something in her ear which brightened her face again. Then mo- tioning to Mrs. Haynes to follow him he walked into the parlor with her and shut the door after them. "Cross street is n6t, I acknowl- edge, the most aristocratic thorough- fare in the city," he began, when they were alone. "But I think we should not consign all of its inhabitants to perdition on that account. Among the worst of people are sometimes found treasures worth saving at any 'cost. Our little girl, here, I believe is one of these. I have resolved to save her from a life of misery, and it shall be done. She looks very differ- ent now in her faded clothes, from what she will in suitable garments, but you must perceive the beauty and grace hid even under her present garb. I wish you to take her and treat her as a daughter; do with her as you would with a daughter; advise her as you would a daughter; and if it is possible, as I am sure it will be after you have known her long, love her as a daughter. If you will do this, Mrs. Haynes; your kindness will never be forgotten. And your draw- ings on me for funds you need in the work shall be met with pleasure." The worthy dame argued her point a little longer, but found all her argu- ments met with others unanswerable. And at last, being really of a kind heart and willing to do what she could for the girl, she consented to take her for a time at least. "While I keep her," said she, "I will do by her as by a daughter." With these arrange- ments, therefore, the matter was set- tled, and they went back to the sitting- room where Ella was awaiting them. "My little girl," sad. Anderson, kindly, taking her hand in his own, "This is your new  mother, Mrs. 4   Haynes. I must leave you with her now, but I shall call on you often and keep up my interest in you. Be a good girl and you will fare well with this lady. What is your age, Ella?" "Fourteen years," she answered, while the tears came to her eyes as she thought of the debt she owed this man. "Fourteen years?" he repeated. "I hardly thought you were so old as that." Still, fourteen years was not very old. She was only a child, and he was to be her guardian. He thought of something like this as he bent down and kissed her gently on the forehead; then, as if a little ashamed of the act, he said "Good-by," and hastily left the house. CHAPTER III. THE MAN AND THE CHLD. A visit was made on the following day to the house of Mrs. Jones, Nvith whom Ella had been living, and after some conversation between An- derson and Mr. Jenkins, his legal adviser, a sum of money was paid to that lady, on condition that she re- lease forever her rights to the young girl. Then taking Ella who had been half frightened to death by the earnestness of her protector and the strangeness of the legal proceedings, they stepped into their sleigh again and drove to the probate office. This they reached just in time to intercept -the judge, who was on the point of leaving. He went back, at Anderson's request, and on becoming acquainted with the facts of the case and seeing the agreement signed by Mrs. Jones, made out the necessary papers of adoption and gave them to Anderson.   Ella signed her name, for she could write very well, having been taught at the asylum. And the young man said, as they rode to Giles's Row: "These mean, my little girl, that no one can ever take you from me while we both live. Will that suit you, Ella?' After leaving the girl with Mrs. Haynes, Anderson rode back to the lawyer's office, and in another hour several fresh clauses were added to his will, providing for the edu- cation and support of Ella Hastings Anderson, adopted daughter of James Albert Anderson, Broker, Commis- sion Merchant and Author, until she should be of age, and leaving Zher twenty thousand dollars in her own right at that time. "There we have it," said Mr. Jen- kins, with a flourish of his pen. "To her and her heirs forever." How strange that sounded for little Ella I "Her heirs forever." So thought Albert as he went away. And while alone in his room that night and after he retired to rest, those words rang in his ear like the burden of a song: "Her and her heirs forever, Her heirs forever." Ella's education proceeded rapidly under the attention of the good Mrs. Haynes. She proved an apt scholar, and attacked her lessons with a sort of hunger, as if she had acquired an appetite from her long fasting. In reading, writing and the common branches, she worked on, determined to win the approval of the friends who had placed her in her present situation. Her foster-mother was herself an excellent teacher, and by every means in her power she strove to assist the girl in her pursuit of knowledge. It was only a pleasure, -    she said, to teach such a pupil; one who was so eager to learn and never tired of study; on the fertile soil of whose mind nothing failed to spring into life, and take deep root; who was so thankful for the attention shown her, and so fully appreciated the value of the information she re- ceived. As to Ella, so long as her guar- dians were satisfied with her course, there .was no more to be desired. While living with Mrs. Jones, Ella had accepted her fate as one from which She could not escape, but she had never put herself on a level with other girls in the neighborhood. There had seemed to be, somehow, a gulf between them, and with an in- stinctive feeling that they were in some sense below her, she had avoid- ed them, and never mingled in their society. A more thoroughly'indepen- dent spirit than found root in the 'young girl's breast could not be con- ceived. Now that she had accepted the offer of Anderson to receive an education and a home, she had a dim idea that if she did in every way as he wished, the debt would be lifted. His kind manner drove away the sus- picion which came at first, that this was no more or less than that cold "charity" she had always been led to refuse. After the papers of adop- tion were made out, the last shadow was removed. Being now by law this dear friend's adopted daughter, with even his name given her for her own, no one could say she had not a right to all his favors. And in the enjoy- ment of such dreams as this the girl became very happy and contented. Anderson could always find time at some period in the day to call in and see Ella. He would manifest -the. deepest interest, in every thing which   concerned her, and always inquire if there was not something more that she desired. His one anxiety was that she should never regret the day which brought them to the knowledge of each other. By consulting with Mrs. Haynes, he could learn ,what presents would be the most appre- ciated, and they were always forth- coming directly he found them out. There was a fine field for such work, for the girl had literally nothing when he found her, and. her necessities were without number. An unlimited purse was placed at Mrs. Haynes's disposition, with the order: "See that she lacks nothing which other girls of her age have, whose parents are in as good circumstances as I am.. Make her understand that all she receives is hers by right, and' encourage her to consider that I am best satisfied by her procuring what- ever she wants, regardless of every- thing except that it is wanted." Mrs. Haynes was a woman of excellent sense, taste and judgment. To this fact the young girl owed much. Had it not been fo'r her prudence, Anderson would have loaded her with a superfluity of dresses and jewelry, in his fear lest that she should not have enough. More than once the good woman was obliged to reason with the young man, regarding his unneeded purchases. He  would always listen with the closest attention to her protests, and then, forgetting them, go away and commit a similar error within a week. As the spring ripened into summer, and the ice and snow gave place to warmth and sunshine, Anderson be- thought himself of the secluded life of Ella, who'had hitherto spent her days and evenings at her studies or other employments at her new mother's   house. She must go out for rides into the country, and about the city, so that the fresh air could be enjoyed after her long confinement. The thankful girl received the proposition with delight, and declared that noth- ing would suit her better. So it happened one bright morning Albert drove up to Giles's Row in his open carriage, and taking his ward, drove away towards the suburbs. For several hours they rode on, winding among the country roads, along the banks of ponds and streams, and under the shade of friendly trees. The pair kept up an animated con- versation upon the subjects in their path, he telling many stories of the localities they passed, and she giving her own opinions and impressions in a frank way that won his heart. If he was more than usually affected, however. he never showed it by one look or action. He remained as dig- nified as ever, noting down everything that she said and did, intending to reproduce it all on the fictitious page when the right time should come. He was studying the girl closely, and with tie view he had in mind, en- couraged in every possible way her free, unrestrained manner and conver- sation. CHAPTER IV. NEITHER LITERATURE NOR LAW. It is October, now, and Giles's Row is the scene of a corps of busy work- ers, for Ella is going away to a young -ladies' school and must be fitted out with all the dresses and millinery that she can possibly find use for. These are the orders of Anderson, whose re- gard for his ward has taken the shape of prodigal liberality. The pleasant parlors of Mrs. Haynes's tenement   have been turned into a place where sewing-women and bonnet-makers hold undisputed sway. The door-bell is jerked violently every hour by carrier boys, leaving bundles of dry goods, or additions to the already enormous stock of ladies' apparel. A carriage stands in readiness most of the time to convey the chief dressmaker to and fronm the store, at which she calls for "a (yard and a half of this," and "another pattern like that, please," until the salesmen are half distracted at seeing her enter. Boot-makers are executing orders for boots, shoes, gai- ters and slippers by the dozen, all to fit one little pair of feet, whose meas- ure they have taken with scrupulous preciseness. Trunks, bags, satchels and valises have been selected from" among the best that could be found. The perfumer has brought in his stock of oils and essences. The jeweler adds to the rings, bracelets and pins which he has before furnished.- The' countless trades that could supply anything that Ella needed were levied upon in great profusion. One would have thought an immense fair was in progress, instead of the mere fitting out of one girl, for the life of a board- ing school. At first Mrs. Haynes tried to reason with Anderson, against this extrava- gance, saying that Ella could never find use for such a wardrobe in the quiet boardingschool life to which she was going. But he replied that there should never be a possibility for the other girls to outshine her, upon occasions of festivity or public dis- play. While she was occupied with the common routine of school life, she need dress only in common clothing. But at the parties or receptions to which she would be invited, she must be directed to omit nothing that would   render her attractive. At last, finding that his heart was set upon it, the good lady made no more objections, but assisted as-much as she was able in the work before them. As for Ella, she had at first no other desire than that which had been uppermost since she had entered upon her hew life - which was to do whatever best suited her friends, and she entered upon the preparations in this matter solely with that view. Yet it must be confessed that after- wards, when trying on some garment of peculiar elegance, or arranging her jewelry in the midst of the thought- less criticisms of- the modistes, a sense of their effect upon her beauty would come fdt a moment into her girlish head to a degree that amount- ed almost to vanity. Thel girl was really quite handsome, andsometimes she realized the fact, and felt happier  for it. Still the evil seeds were very slow at taking root in her breast, and  she continued as lovable as ever.  During the spring and summer  which glla had spent with her new  friends, she had improved her time -in  a most praiseworthy manner, and was now quite as far advanced as most misses of her age. The rides which she took nearly every day kept her t health in spite of her long hours of r close study. She loved to have An- t derson call in, and after finding how 1 far she was adWanced in a certain c study, sit down with the text-book in d his hands and ask her questions at a random from its pages. Her memory t B'as excellent and her- calculating M powers quick, and she seldom failed fs to pass a creditable examination. One day he said, in one of these lessons, a "Do you know the difference between I twenty-two and fourteen?" and she E answered "Why, eight, of course; what b 2   ig an easy question "And he said, very e soberly, "That is a great deal, is it not s, Ella?"And she replied, "I do not e think it is, Mr. Anderson," wondering what he meant. She did not know he o had referred to their; ages, but he had, d and was very glad to hear her answer d as she did. As the time approached when Ella d should leave him, the young man n thought seriously of moving his i head- quarters to Giles's Row, so that he - might see more of her during the days t that remained. This idea was, how- r ever, discarded as foolish, and he de- cided not to do so, lest it should re- t veal the fact that he thought more of r Ella than he dared to own, even to r himself. After she was gone he might go and board with MrsI Haynes, where they could talk over the news. from their girl together, without the change exciting any suspicion among the gossip-venders. But not now, on any account, should he give them the slightest cause upon which to found a story, His action in adopting his. ward had been regarded as eccentric, merely, and was quoted as one more peculiarity in an always peculiar man.. The young author was well known, about the city and his reputation had travelled wherever his books- were read. The newspapers joined with the crowd in commenting upon his latest freak, but even they could dis- cover none but a right motive in the deed. As yet, the world was gener- ally disposed to smile upon him, and treated his action in the good-humored way it has when dealing with its favorites. The day of departure came at last, and wrapped in furs and warm gar- ments, Ella bade good-bye to Mrs. Haynes with as light a heart as possi- ble. She had come to love the lady   ,as a mother, and was loved in return,  as Anderson had requested, like a 1 daughter. Now she was going away i for many months among strangers, I with new friends to make and new as-  sociations to form. Her heart almost failed her at the last moment, but' when she remembered that the sorrow  was not all on her side, that those she was leaving feltas sad as she, and that it was for her own good after all, she summoned courage and was the- most cheerful of any of them. So cheerful, indeed, that they began to think she cared nothing about leaving them, until a tear that in some way escaped at the last moment rolled down her fair cheek, and betrayed her secret. Then Mrs. Haynes burst out into a real flood of tears, and had nearly brought Ella into a similar con- dition, when Anderson came in to ascertain the cause of the delay. '"Hush! Hush!" he exclaimed; reprovingly, as he saw what was the matter. "This will never no. Would you have our little girl go away remembering you with. your face wet with tears the last time she saw it? She has need enough of smiles and encouragement now. After we are gone you may cry as much as you please. But, for goodness sake, dry your eyes for the present." "How can I smile when my dear girl is going away?" said Mrs. Haynes. "You don't know how I love her or you wouldn't talk so." "Who was it that thought Cross street such a very bad neighborhood, I wonder, only a few months ago?" said Albert, just loud enough to reach her ear alone. "I am glad you have altered your opinion since then; but," he added, louder, "don't inflict a shower-bath upon Miss Ella when she is going out in the cold air. 'She   would not be comfortable covered with icicles, I fear." This was said in a droll way that brought a ringing laugh from Ella at the absurdity of the idea, and even caused  Mrs. Haynes's face to grow brighter for the instant. Anderson seized the opportunity to utter a hasty farewell and hurry Ella into the carriage. Sam held the ribbons, and with a wave of handkerchiefs they were out of sight in a moment, and on their way to the depot. "Mrs. Haynes is a foolish woman to act so silly just as you are going away," said Anderson. "But she has been a good friend to ,us, and you will not forget to write her letters very often. She will look anxiously for them. You must give her a full account of everything that is of inter- est to you, for she will be pleased with the very smallest matters that concern your happiness." "I have promised her to write often," replied Ella, "and shall surely keep my word. But yourself, Mr. Anderson," she added, looking up into his face. "I can write to you, also, can I not? And you will answer me, won't you?" The reply was so exactly as he could have wished, that the young man was nearly incapable of utter- ance for a moment. "'Certainly you may write to me, too," he said, recov- ering himself. "I have taken too great an interest in my little girl while she has been near me to forget her when she is obliged to be away for a while. You must write often, and you must let me know at once when- ever there is anything you want that your teachers cannot procure for you near the seminary." "I do not think there can possibly be another thing that I shall want for   a year, Mr. Anderson. I have been so well provided for now that I can hardly need more. You. have been very kind to me, and you must believe I am truly grateful for all you have done." Something came into his throat again, choking him for an instant, but he cleared his voice with a strong effort, It would not do to show his weakness now, when he had struggled so hard for these long weeks. "Only be true to yourself, Ella," he replied. "Strive as you have done in the past to excel in all you do; study bravely and earnestly at your school,; and never forget the friends you have left. I could ask no more." They went aboard of the train to- gether and soon left the city behind them. As they rode by the towns and villages in their path Anderson kept Ella interested by a descriptive  recital of his visits to them at different times. All she sawwas strange to the  girl, unused to travel, and she kept i up her watch from the car windows until darkness made a longer view  impossible. The train would reach i the place at which Ella was to stop s about midnight, and it was decided c that it would be useless to attempt to c get so short a rest in a sleeping car. n So they rode together -after the sun h went down, after the brakemen lit the a lamps, after the signal-lights could be a seen at the crossings, after the red 1 blaze in the stove grates sent out its o heat into the car. The night became o colder and colder, and at each open- tl ing of the doors, a gust of wind came h rushing in. Ella spread out her fe largest shawl to keep in some degree m the cold away, but it is not the easi- s estmatter in the world to make one's w self comfortable on a railroad when w the weather is freezing without.' See- hi   an ing that Ella was far from warm, and in knowing his own case to be quite an similar, Albert Anderson determined re upon a boll. stroke of policy which re he never understood how he dared carry out as he did. It  "Let me arrange the shawl," said it he, taking it up from the girl's lap. g He placed his arm upon the back of is the seat, where it served as a pillow d for her tired head, and arranged the shawl in such a manner that it e served as a covering for them. both. e "There, are you comfortable now?" "Quite so," she replied, closing r her eyes, and settling her curls upon s their new cushion.  "You can go to sleep, then, if you choose. I will wake you in time to t leave the train." "But you will not get any sleep at i all," she said, looking up an instant at the handsome face above her. "Oh! I never sleep on the railroad. Don't think of me. I am quite satis- fied as I am." For once, at least, he told the truth. The young author was happy while reading his latest book, lying there soon with heavy breathing, that told of sound sleep. The young mer- chant was proud of such priceless merchandise as was now lying before his eyes. The young man began to acknowledge to himself, unwillingly at first, that he was inextricably in love! Ella was barely fifteen years of age, but when her school-days were over she would be much older, and then--! He would have given, had he followed the dictates of his feelings, all of his houses, lands, moneys and business to have been sure that that little golden head would never know another pillow, when he should choose to take it to himself.   But Albert Anderson seldom fol- ev lowed the dictates of his feelings; so le the men said who knew him best. w At twelve o'clock he roused the sh sleeper, though it cost him a throb of tc pain to break in upon such a sound h slumber. They left the train, and h were driven away over the country u and up a long hill, in a coach sent h from the seminary. On arriving, a o pleasant featured Irish girl showed them to their rooms, with the expla- tt nation:             f "The misthress said ye were to n have these apartments, and she would o see ye in the mornin'. The big room c is for the gentleman and the little I one for the young leddy. If ye want p anything, ye can just be afther pullin' u the bell rope."  "Perhaps you can render some as- 1 sistance to Miss Ella," said Anderson,  handing her a piece of silver. "She s is in a strange place, you know, and 1 not used to being alone."  "Indade I will, sur," said the kind- hearted Biddy. "It isn't the likes of me that 'ud refuse a shmall favor like that," and after bidding Anderson good-night, Ella went away with her new friend to her room. When the morning came, the young man led his charge down stairs and introduced her to her new teacher, Miss Flint. He afterwards had a long interview with that lady, in which he explained his desire that - Ella's life should be the happiest possible while she remained at the institution. Money, he said, was no object when considered as against her welfare. Miss Flint promised to do all in her power for the girl, and arrangements were made for the payment in ad- vance of a certain sum quarterly dur- -ing the school year. Before noon Anderson had spoken personally with   ever attache of the seminary, and, left with each a present of money, with the promise of more when he should come again, if they were good to his little girl. This measure can hardly be considered a wise one, but he felt that he could leave nothing undone which might make Ella's life happier, while separated from her only friends, by so many long miles. At night he left her with a face that showed no sign of thd sorrow he felt, giving a cheerful farewell, with many requests that she would write often. He did not kiss her, even once, which seemed strange to Miss Flint and the others who saw the parting. But he carried away a load upon his heart that neither of then knew or suspected. Through all the long night ride he had before he reach- ed home he thought of but the one de- sire which now filled his breast, and though he strove like a giant to keep it down, it could not be done. He missed the golden head which had lain on that arm last night, and for the present there was' nothing in heaven or earth that could drive this from his memory. r 1[   CHAPTER V. A SCRIPTURE LESOON. I  Ere Ella had been' gone a month, s Anderson found his new lonesome- e ness more than he could bear. He,  therefore decided to make a visit to a Texas and look over the old scenes !. where his earliest youth was passed. r His personal effects were removed to s the house in Giles's Row, and bidding I- good-by to his friends, and placing his r- business matters in the hands of Mr. I, Jenkins, the lawyer, he set out on the h long and tiresome journey. 'Upon   arriving at Catherine, the place of his nativity, he found his affairs in that section progressing favorably, and gave himself up to the pleasures of the frontier. When he had been out about a month he found one day on his return from a ride, a large package of letters awaiting him. He took them into his room and commenced to examine their contents. Those from Harry Johnson, his chief clerk, and his other business friends were read first, and answers written to each. The form- er announced that all was well at the wharf, and that Anderson need be in no haste to return if he was enjoying himself among the forests.  Mrs. Haynes's letter came next, containing plenty of good advice about keeping out of danger, and keeping in health, which admonitions the young man re- ceived with only a scornful smile. Then there was one letter more, with a double post-mark, forwarded per order;- a little, dainty envelope of pink, with the initial "A" on the seal. He held it in his hand a long time, thinking of the writer whose name the law had changed to his   own  as his daughter, from which came her right to the initial "A."  But "daughter" signified in some way "obedience." And it was sadly inap- propriate in that way. He felt that it was she that was the mistress - mis- tress of his heart, his soul, his fortune. Then suddenly he tore open the en- velope, and devoured the words inside as if he had been starving for them. "Dear Mr. Anderson:-Vou will remember that I promised to write to you, when you left, and after sending Auntie a letter I will try and send a few words to you. I am enjoy- ing myself very well here. I have studies enough to keep me busy nearly all the time. All of the teachers are very kind to me, and   they say I am learning fast. I am sure I try to, for I appreciate the advantages I have here. There have been no entertainments as yet this winter, and so I have not needed my suits. There is nothing at all that I can think of which I require that has not already been provided for me. Please write me a letter soon, with all the news. Tell me about yourself and what you have been do- ing since I left you. I have been a little lonesome at times, but am getting over it. I have your picture hung in my room, where I can see it many times a day. That is better than nothing, you see, though I would like to see you, yourself. Good-bye -. ELLA H. ANDERSON." That was all; but he kissed the name tenderly. And then, ordering a fresh horse, he hurried away for a gallop over the prairies where he could be alone by himself and think I There is no truer proverb than that "time  flies." Flying as usual, it brought to Anderson in Texas, the end of winter and the beginning of spring; the end of spring and another summer. When the hot days came and residence in the tropical climate began to be uncomfortable, the young man set out, upon a Northern trip, visiting the States bounded by British America, and even extending his trav- els into the Canadas and the fur re- gions. As winter approached again he gave up his journeyings, and Octo- ber found him back in his own city. Quietly he received the exclamations of delight with which his old friends welcomed him, and settling down into a steady-going existence, passed most of his time in writing and reading, with a proper amount of exercise. His publishers sent several letters, desiring to know when he would have another book completed, and he an- swered that if they would have pa- tience he would furnish them one ere long that would far exceed in interest any he  had before written. The   newspapers threw out hints that the young author had finished his best days, and that nothing more need be :expected from him. He kept as steadily at work, however, as if no earthly person was in the least inter- ested- in his concerns; seeming to care no more for the opinions of oth- ers, than for the flies that might buzz about his pages. He knew what he was doing, and that was enough for him. If he had written for money, he might have written more. But as it was, he preferred to wait until he knew his subject well. Mrs. Haynes had planned to give him a little surprise on the occasion of his next seeing Ella, and to this endhe was purposely misled as to. the time when her school would finish. The girl herself was also in the plot, and it was arranged between them that Anderson should not know Ella was in the city until, she presented herself to him in person.  Mrs. Haynes had been moved to this de- ception by receiving photographs of Ella which showed a change she could hardly believe possible in so short a time - the change of a bud into a beautiful blossom - a girl into a woman. As Albert had not seen Ella for over a year, the great change would be all the more apparent to him, and Mrs. Haynes doubted wheth- er he would even recognize his ward at first. Her doubts were communi- cated to Ella, and the plan suggested entered into with pleasure by the girl. When the school closed, she came alone to the city, and was met at the depot by her foster-mother. They drove to Giles's Row, and found by the servants that Anderson was in his library. Stopping a few mo- ments to arrange her dress before the mirror, and afterbeing pronounced -           ['.t   by Mrs. Haynes, who was quite over- whelmed at sight of her, a perfect beauty, Miss Ella smilingly ascended the stairs, and knocked softly on the library door. Her heart beat fast as she thought of meeting her benefactor, but she strove to master her feelings, and succeeded to a surprising degree. The young man was writing when he heard the knock. He sat in his dressing gown and slippers, in an arm chair, with his beautiful hair brushed smoothly from his thoughtful brow. He laid down his pen, and supposing his visitor to be Mrs. Haynes, looked up, and said simply: "Come in." Ella opened the door, and stepped trembingly into the apartment. Dis- covering his mistake, the young man was on the point of explaining when she spoke, apologetically: "I didn't know you were busy, sir; I only called-" Her manner was. well put on, and her carelessness well feigned, but with the first sound of her voice, he com- prehended all. That form had been too much in his mind for him to be deceived when it came in substance before his eyes. If he had obeyed his first impulse he would have sprung to her side, and enveloped her in his embrace. It cost him one of those fierce struggles that he had been compelled so often to go through, to do otherwise. But he only said, ris- ing to greet her, and smiling pleas- antly: "Very good, very good indeed! That was excellent, Miss Ella! I am sorry that I cannot pretend to be thoroughly deceived, that your plan might be carried to the end. But it is more natural for me to be frank, and I will be so with you. I am just as glad to see you, though, as 1 could   possibly be. Sit down here and talk with me. I wish to know all about this little game, and who assisted you in plotting it." Ella laughed heartily, and Mrs. Haynes came up to take her share of the blame. They were very merry over the failure of the plot, and Mrs. Haynes could not understand how Anderson had recognized Ella so easily; "I am sure Zshould not have known her," said she, "if I had not seen her picture.' Don't you think she has changed wonderfully, Mr. Anderson?" "She has changed, somewhat," he answered, trying to look unconcerned, "and of course I expected she would change-young ladies must grow older, I suppose, as well as the 'rest of us. Now look at me, for instance. Don't I look as though I was getting to be an old gentleman? Think of it! over twenty-three years of age! That is what you may call growing old, now, isn't it?" Ella laughed again, and shook her head. "What nonsense! You get- ting old, indeed! I don't believe there is one man in a hundred at twenty-one that looks as young as you do." "Ah, ha! How do you know so much about young men of twenty- one?" said Anderson. with a mock- serious air. "You are pretty well posted, it seems to me." Ella blushed a little, and said: "Well, I knew you when you were not much more than twenty-one ;. and you don't look any older than you did then, at any rate. There, now you see where I get my information." This ingenious statement satisfied everybody, and brought the laugh around once more. A long time was spent in talking over affairs that had   transpired since they had all been together last. Ella had changed as well in manners as appearance, and gratified her friends greatly. There was not left one trace of the Cross street life, and in the beautiful young woman, any man might' have been proud to find a daughter. She was welcomed back to the old roof with an honest and heartfelt welcome. A new light came with her into the house --a beam of surpassing brightness, which was felt by every one she met. Always obliging and kind, unwilling to give the slightest pain, anxious to do anything that pleased her friends, she became endeared to them more and more. It had been a question whether she was to go back to Clare- mont for another year, but after as- certaining how far she was already advanced, her guardian decided that she had studied enough for the pre- sent. He wrote to Miss Flint that she would not attend the seminary for another year at least. Ella seconded this decision, as she really needed a rest, and was becoming so deeply at- tached to her friends as to dislike a separation. Ella had returned quite a musician, and was provided at once with a piano of the best make. The large instru- ment seemed rather out of place in Mrs. Haynes's cosy parlors, where it took to itself the larger share of the rooms. But there was space enough left for the young guardian to sit and listen with pleasure to the music his ward brought from the keys with her white, ring-covered fingers. And there he did sit, many an hour, often pre- tending to read by the window, and always following the tunes she played, in his mind. When she practiced the hard lessons under the eye of her music teacher, Anderson's thoughts   became as discordant as the piece in the unaccustomed hands. He always envied the little German who leaned-so closely over her shoul- ders and turned the pages for her. Grave or gay, as the music might be, he followed it in his thoughts. It was asif the lily-fingers were playing on his heart-strings, they responded so quickly to every touch- Yet he as- sumed an air of indifference, and was very careful that she should not dis- cern the real state of his feelings. The man was in love, and what more need be said? But he had no intention of declaring his affection in words, or asking that it might be returned. He was satisfied for the present to see the flower growing daily more beauti- ful before his eyes, and to have it where he could care for it, and assist in its graceful development. When the sleighing began to be en- joyable, they had rides together by the score. Nearly every day found them gliding merrily over the snow- crust, about the city and into the best suburban roads. There is something about-a sleigh-ride that unites two young people to each other more than any other pleasure in which they can participate. The knowledge that they two are alone together, enjoying the same exercise, braving the same cold, feeling the same exhilaration, wrapped in the same robe, is responsible, with- out doubt, for hundreds of marriages. Something of its effect was felt by An- derson, as he rode out day after day with his ward. Something made him wish their relations were different- that she was, for instance, the daugh- ter of some neighbor, so that his atten- tions might be naturally construed into expressions of affection which would be understood by everybody. As for Ella, she may have felt a little of this    after a time, but how much it is impos- sible to say. She was all goodness and grace to him, and the grati- tude, which they -say is akin to love, never lost its place in her heart. Perhaps the first actual move towards the hoped-for, change in their relations was made by Albert one evening, when they were riding along behind a quick-stepping pair, on an unfrequented road, some distance out. Their conversation had been quite animated, and losing his usual control of himself, the young man found that his arm had strayed around Ella's waist; and finding that she did not seem to notice the liberty, he was emboldened to broach the subject nearest his heart. "I wish you would not continue to call me Mr. Anderson, now we have become so well acquainted," he said. "Not call you 'Mr. Anderson'?" re- iterated Ella, in a surprised tone, turn- ing her rosy cheeks towards him. "What can I call you if not by your name?" Her question was so very honest, that he wished for a moment. he had not made the request; but it was too late to retract now, and he proceeded. "When I was a little boy," he said, "I had a father who loved me with- all his heart; who toiled all the day that he might amass a fortune for me; and who died happy in thiiking that he had provided against my coming to want, He used to call me 'Albert'; and sometimes 'Bert' or 'Bertie.' After I lost him, I went to school for several years. There, the teachers called me 'Anderson,' or 'Master Anderson.' After I left school, the men in whose company I traveled; called me generally 'Mr. Anderson.' Now, every one call me by that-name. I suppose it is right that they should,   but I would be pleased if you, in memory of the days when one man loved me for myself alone, would drop the title and give me my plain, childhood's name again." It would be folly to say that this speech did not awaken a new train of thoughts in the girl's mind-more than he intended it should do then. But she only answered, dutifully: "I will call you whatever name you please, Mr. Anderson." "Then call me Bert," he cried. "Always call me Bert. It will draw a line somehow between you and the rest of them, for you- alone shall use that name. It will remind me of the time when some one loved me, and I shall think the more of you, Ella, I am sure." She knew that he loved her now. Her heart told her that this was true. Woman-like she waited for his own time to reveal it by words, and in the interval she studied carefully her own feelings to discover if she loved him as she should in return. It had been so strange, all through -their acquaintance. There were the pictures standing out in line so plainly. The little ragged candy girl, doubting if she ought to accept the friendship of the well-dressed young skater; the curious working of the law which took her from want and misery, and gave her to this man, and a loving home; the long months of schdol-life, where'she had studied so hard to rise above-the years when her mind was compelled to lay idle; the letters from her guardian and foster- mother, so good and true they had been to her; the return home, the gradual change of. the guardian into the--could it be? Yes, that was it -the guardian into the lover! Not yet, to be sure, a declared lover; but   she knew he was so as well as if he had-made a formal declaration. And, knowing this, she was quite as happy as she could be. The date of that ride commenced a new era for them both. Except when habit induced her to call him by his old name, she always spoke to him as Bert, when they were alone together. He had a sort of fear to have Mrs. Haynes know of the change that was going on in their attachment, and cautioned Ella to be careful in her presence. Unused to deceit in any- thing, she found some difficulty in this, but succeeded on the whole very well. All women, even though wholly unskilled in the deceptive arts, find their powers wonderfully increased when love is the motive. After this the rides began to mean something more than they had previ- ously. The unfrequented roads were always sought, and the arm which had once stolen doubtfully about Ella's form was placed there as nat- urally as if it had always had the right. At home his library-room be- came her most common resort, and while he wrote, she would sit sewing or reading, each happy in the other's presence. Not a pledge had he made, or a word had he spoken about the fu- ture, but contenting himself with the delicious present, he allowed the hours and days to pass by, quite sat- isfied with his pleasant dream. She became no more a distant, shadowy thing, to be hoped for, and thought of as a possible possession of the dis- tant, shadowy future. She was there, by him, near him, almost of him, a part of his existence, and he fondly believed, of his soul. He gave no thought to anything else about her, about himself, or about the future of both of them.   Mrs. Haynes complained that she was left alone so much, when Ella would say so often that Mr. Ander- son wanted her to assist him in the library, and she must go up a little while. The witch even made a pre- tence of studying, and would carry up a book, to be assisted in her lessons. The book was often laid down on reaching his room, and only taken up again when she left it. Albert's writ- ing, also, was sadly neglected, the pen being generally dropped at the sound of Ella's foot on the stairs. As she came in, he would place his chair near the grate, and draw up an otto- man for her, close to it. Then they would sit together and talk for hours, though neither could have told of what when they had finished. Her hand in his, or sometimes her head on his knee, with his fingers running through the tangled hair; or anon he would be stooping to snatch a kiss from her rosy cheeks. The only thing feared was the widow, 'whom neither would have wished to witness these acts, and who was constantly watched for by both. If she was heard approaching, it was wonderful how quick Ella was poring over a book, and Albert writing with amaz- ing speed the most incomprehensible sentences upon his manuscript. One day Mrs. Haynes was known to be confined to her bed by a violent headache, and it is to be feared that the young couple did not feel so sorry at the fact as they might have done. The library held forth attractions for them both that day, and being re- lieved of all fears of intruders, they passed the hours in the unalloyed pleasure of each other's sole society. Feeling freer than usual, Ella aban- doned-the ottoman for Albert's knee, and her head .soon lay upon his t   bosom, while they rocked slowly in the great arm-chair. The silence of nearly an hour was finally broken by Ella, who said, suddenly: "Bert?" "What is it, darling? i "Do you believe the Bible, Bert?" "Why, what a question! What put that into your pretty head?" "Oh, I don't know. You never go to church with Auntie and I, and I have heard you speak as if you did not." "Do you believe the Bible, Ella?" asked he, after a pause. "Why, yes, I do. Of course I do." "And why do you believe it, dar- ling?" "Why, because I have always been taught so, I suppose." "Well, 1 have not been taught so. Now why should I believe it?" "Didn't your father ever teach you from the Bible, when you were a boy?" "Never." "But you might go to church now and learn, mightn't you, Bert?" "Yes, I suppose I might. But I do not like the doctrines they preach in most of the churches. So I stay away." "What doctrines don't you like, Bert?" "Nearly all of them. I went into a church some time ago in Texas, and heard the minister preach about the wickedness of Adam and Eve in pick- ing the forbidden apple. Now, do you know, Ella, I should have done exactly as they did?" "Why, Bert!" "Yes, I should. I have always made it a point to examine and inves- tigate into every new thing that I find until I understand it perfectly.   The more difficulty there is, the more anxious I am to make the discovery plain. The apple would have at- tracted me particularly, it being the only thing in the garden I was for- bidden to touch, and I should not have waited even for the serpent to tempt me, as Eve did, before I had it in my possession." "Oh, Bert, I am afraid it is wicked to talk so. You know how Adam and Eve were punished for their dis- obedience!" "No, I do not, Ella. I do not know anything about it." "But the Bible says so!" "Well, as you please, darling. I shall not argue the question with you. I tried that to my satisfaction with the Texan minister. After the service was over, I obtained an introduction to him, and after a little conversation invited him to go out for a horseback ride with me next day. He accepted. While we were out, I recalled the Adam and Eve story, and after an hour I convinced him so thoroughly that it was untrue, that he resigned his position and gave up the ministry within a week. But one day before I came away, I met him looking awful shabby, and he said he could get no work and was very poor. He held his new principles well, but they didn't bring him in any money. I gave him a hundred dollars and left him. But I wished I had let him alone in the first place. He was satisfied then, and getting a good salary. I' shall not attempt to influence any more men, I assure you." Ella laughed at this story, and the conversation finished there. Its fruits did not, however. What Bert believed must be right, she thought. What he did was perfect. What he said must be true. He became her ideal in all   things. She trusted him as she would have trusted only the man on whom her whole heart and love were set. He became her guiding star, and she knew no other in the wide, wide world. God forgive him, if he guide her wrongly! God forgive him, if he proves unfaithful to so great a trust! With the power he has obtained in her soul let him deal carefully. Her love may become wider and wider, and yet there is room in it for him only. When they separated that evening, it 'was with lovers' embraces and lovers' kisses lingering on their lips. He walked with her to her door qui- etly, for the hour was very late. As they parted, he whispered softly in her ear: "I believe one text in the Bible, darling." "Which one, Bert?" "Anew commandment give I unto you,'" he said, "that ye LOVE one another /" With a last passionate kiss he was gone. CHAPTER VI. THE COMNG STORM. Great changes are the rule of life --coming swiftly in each other's train startling the unwary, and confirming the predictions of the looker into futu- rity. The passion of the hour does its work, and flies from us. As surely as it comes unexpectedly, so it de- parts without a shadow of warning. We daily witness results that would have been pronounced impossibilities yesterday. The human soul is prone to bind itself up in single things, and only learns after many a hard lesson the danger of leaning on the tempo- rary fabrics raised by the chance of one day to fall by the chance of   another. Bruised by falls and lame from frequent miss-steps we may come at last to a right conception of life, should we be permitted to survive our injuries. For our experiments are very dangerous, and often prove fatal to the inexperienced. Our strongest props give way, and our best hopes are shattered when we least expect it. Happy ishe who has schooled himself to take every hour's tidings as they come, knowing that sorrow is useless, and that the pain we cause ourselves is the most difficult to bear of any. We cannot command the sun to shine brightly on us forever, but we can prepare for the storms which are sure to come, and wait in sheltered places till they are over. Who would have believed that Albert Anderson, the man who hardly spoke to a woman from January to December, would give up his busi- ness, his time, his whole powers to devote himself to one of the sex? Yet so it had come to be. From morning until night, and hardly absent from his dreams, his adopted daughter was ever in his thoughts. He said to him- self that it was only another Experi- ment he was trying, but an examina- tion of his heart would have proved a denial. The fact that the situation was new to him only aided in the completeness with which he was over- powered, and caught in the meshes he had woven for himself. All was given up to the one aim of his life - the happiness of his adopted daughter. Driven at last to the most ingenious of devices to'procure her new delights, he concluded that the house in Giles's Row was not suitable for her to in- habit longer, and set about fitting up in elegant style the largest of the buildings he had recently erected on the site of his ancient rooms on Pearl   street. For a time the occupation of selecting furniture and upholstery-for the new home sufficed to occupy his mind and keep him, satisfied. No luxury was at too great a cost, if she only smiled and praised it ever so little. The young man was dimly conscious that the world took up his name in gossiping phrase, and held their own opinion of his conuct in giving up everything to an idol for which he had always affected to care nothing. But he seemed as if it were raised above the heads of the crowd, and could afford to let them have their way, knowing that they had no conception of the glory there was in the life he was leading. He would not have exchanged the fraction of one smile from his girl for the praises of all mankind. And so he went on, intox- icated with the fervor that filled him so completely, happy as he could be under the influence of the drug which locked his senses, Caring For No Man, whether they thought of him for good or for evil. They left Giles's Row and entered their new home, where they found nothing omitted that could insure lux- ury and beauty. Servants attended to every wish, paintings delighted the eye, richness of ftting? was everywhere noticeable, and nothing had been left out that could add to the impres- sion of comfort and magnificence. A high tower, reaching above the summit of its surroundings, hadbeen built and fitted up as a library and writing room for Albert, and here, without danger of molestation, he could receive his little visitor. Secure in their high nest they spent their hours on hours together, without a cloud to obscure their happiness. Time went on, and with rides, books i   and public amusements, the young th couple were very happy together,de Mrs. Haynes became neglected more tic than ever, only meeting the young ar people at the table, and even there al they were not always to be found, ye often preferring to dine by themselves gi in the tower-room, to which their fare sp was sent in a dumb-waiter arranged it for the purpose. Perfectly secure in their aerial castle, the very food they if ate seemed to have a better taste.  Albert thought the tea poured by a Ella's white hands, acquired a new ta relish, and the toast passed by her r was better than any he could taste n elsewhere. Ella was pleased with the p novelty of this style of living, and was v satisfied if she could be away from the n eyes of her foster-mother, whose no- c tice she had begun to dislike. At t last, Mrs. Haynes took occasion to f remonstrate with the girl against being i so much alone with Mr. Anderson. I She met with a reply that only widened the breach previously formed S between them. "If Mr. Anderson does not know  what is best for me," Ella said, with  flashing eyes, " perhaps I had better send him to you for instruction. I think you are considerably overdoing your part in my education, Mrs. Haynes, when you try to prejudice me against one who thinks of nothing so much as my best welfare. I wonder Whathe would say, if he kinew you talked in this way of him. I shouldn't want to be very near while you were telling him. * Poor Mr. Anderson! He little thinks those who profess to be his friends are turning against him in this manner." "Yes, Ella," rejoined Mrs. Haynes, "but think of the danger to which you expose yourself, 'by causing all sorts of reports to be circulated about   the city. It is no light manner, my dear girl, to risk the loss of reputa- tion, even though. unjustly. People are already beginning to  whisper about the lover-guardian It is for your good I say this, believe me. It gives me much pain, and I would spare you the recital, did I not believe it my duty to warn you." "Don't talk such nonsense to me, if you please," said Ella, sternly. "For what you have done for me I am truly thankful; but you must not take advantage of the affection you may have gained, to estrange me from my bestfriend. I wish the gossipping public would mind its business as well as poor Mr. Anderson. ,He never goes about talking of the sins of this one and that, and causing trouble. I can hear nothing of your fears, as I can only consider them insults to him. If it were only to me, I could overlook it. But you must not talk in that way of Mr. Ander- s6n 1" Mrs. Haynes sighed.  "My dear girl," she said, "you may some day i see better than you can now the injus- r tice you do me by this usage. You I may one day remember what I have g told you, and think of me kindly for ;. it." e  Ella was too excited to answer, and o turned away, leaving Mrs. Haynes :r standing there, gazing after her with u tears in her eyes. A few days later 't Anderson found a note lying on his -e desk, reading as follows: !- to  Dear Mr. Anderson: - For reasons which m I cannot at this time give you, I desire to leave your house for another home. You  have been uniformly kind to me since I have "been with you, and have my most affection- ate regard. I propose, if it meets your con- th venience, to depart a week from to-day. ut   Yours etc.,  LAURA HAYNES.   Albert sat reading this communica- tion, rather surprised at its contents, when Ella came into the room. "Come here, pet," said he, in the lover-like tone he always used now, "What do you think of that letter?" Ella sat on his knee and glanced over the note, opening her blue eyes a lit- tle asshe comprehended its meaning. "Too bad, isn't it, pet?"said Ander- son. "What shall we do without her? She has been with us so long, it will be difficult, I fear, to replace her. But we must induce "her to stay, mustn't we? You shall try your arts of per- suasion, and see who can resist them; eh, pet?" "Oh, Bert," said Ella, hardly no- ticing what he was saying, "I am so glad she is going. It was more than I dared to hope." "What " said Anderson, with a look of the deepest wonder. "Il thought you loved her better than any one else - better than me almost. Why, I have often been quite jealous of her, thinking she had the largest share of the love I so highly prize. What can have happened to separate you?" '"Don't ask me, Bert; don't ask me what it was. It is very foolish, I am sure, and I cannot bear to tell you so small a trouble. She is going now, and it will/,beover then. There, now, you foolish fellow, don't look so sober. It will be all right after she is \gone." \ "None of your troubles are too srnall in my eyes to demand notice," he replied tenderly; "But since you  wish me not to inquire into this one, I will not." And here the matter was dropped. At another time the young man t might have felt some degree of sad- ness on account of the departure of    the good woman who had been so thoughtful and kind to him and his ward. He did intend to have a fare- well interview With her before she left, but Miss Ella managed to give him no time for it, by convincing him that she needed this or that, or could not bear to be left alone without him. So it happened that Mrs. Haynes was ready for her journey before he had an opportunity to say a parting word. He was coming up the steps with a whip in his hand, after tying his horses at the gate, preparatory to taking Ella for her evening ride, when he saw Mrs. Haynes coming; down, with her traveling wrappings on, and a porter following her with the bag- gage. "Why, really," he stammered, tak- ing her hand, and feeling a sense of his neglect sending the blood, to his cheeks, "I had not thought you left us to-day.' I meant to haye had a long conversation with you before you departed, but H--really- I have been so busy-- " He hesitated, knowing the falsity of such a statement, and looked down, still holding the lady's hand in his own. At this moment Ella came to the door, looking so lovely in her light dress and ribbons that he drew a breath of surprise even in the midst of his vexation. "Come, Bert," said Ella, putting her hand on his arm, and looking into his eyes with an expression there was no resisting. "Come, if you are going to ride with me. It is getting late, and I fear there is a shower coming up.       e     He was caught, entangled, thrown down, and his captor stood looking at him in calm triumph. But he was not quite so far gone yet as to forget every feeling of duty.   "Ella," he said, contracting his forehead, and trying to look stern, "Do you not see Mrs. Haynes? She is going to leave us. It is not right to behave in this manner toward your friend. Cannot you bid her good- by?" Ella turned and recognized the lady with a haughty bow, though her lips quivered a little at the harshness of Anderson's tone. "Good-by, Mrs. Haynes," she said. "Perhaps you will know better some day than to accuse-but then, it is no matter now. You are going; and what has passed between us is ended." "Good-by, Ella," said Mrs. Haynes, trying hard to control herself. "I have nothing to add to what I have told you. May you be happy. Good- by." The hack drove away, and Ander- son, who had been  a wondering spectator of the scenes just enacted, drove away also, with Ella, in an opposite direction. He said nothing for some time, and they came to an old road where they often drove among the pines, before the silence was broken-by either. "Ella," said he, then, placing his arm tenderly about her, as he was wont to do, "I was much grieved to see you behave so badly to Mrs. Haynes. Whatever she has done, it can be no excuse for such treatment. I am very sorry that you could not control yourself better." "Oh, Bert!" cried the girl, hiding her tearful face on his shoulder. "How cruelly you speak to-me! And it was all for your sake, all for your sake!" "For my sake!" cried he, starting up. "How can that be?" "I cannot tell you, Bert," she re- plied. "It is over now, and should   never be called up again. The wo- man meant no harm, I am sure, but she did make me very angry. It was all for your sake, Bert, and I could not feel reconciled to her." The tears had their effect, and he said no more, only brushing back her wet hair, and begging her to think no more of the matter. He was blind- ed by love, and every other sense was overpowered by this one.' The next day they drove to an ar- tist's gallery and sat for pictures. Anderson had long desired to have a picture of himself and Ella taken to- gether, and after some trouble had been experienced in overcoming the girl's bashfulness at being obliged to sit with him before the eye of the ar- tist, a fine large copy was obtained. A painter afterwards transferred the likeness to canvass, and it was hung in the tower-room. There is a handsome man of twen- ty-four, and a lovely woman of sixteen, Both of a clear blonde complexion, both with bright silken hair. Her eyes are of the bluest blue, his are hazel- gray. He sits in a large chair, up- right, smiling, happy; seeming almost to say, "Look at my treasure." She, looking like a treasure indeed, sits on; his knee, with one arm encircling his neck, and her head showering its gold over his own. Her beautiful dress sweeps over his feet, and one of his arms clasps her waist. Jewels shine forth from her fingers, bracelets of fine gold are upon her arms, a beaten chain is round her neck and hiding in her bosom; His broad collar is cov- ered by the long hair that twines around his shoulders, sweeping back from his high, intellectual forehead. She looks a little shy-and much the prettier for it-but very happy. Painter never made so beautiful a   scene, as that of James Albert An- derson, the author, and his beautiful, guileless ward, Ella. His guileless ward, Ella! Guile- less as the new-born babe, trusting him and loving him as her life. Be- lieving him the essence of truth and honor. Seeing daily his'great love for her, and realizing the debt she must always owe him. He hangs the picture on the library wall. There it may hang forever, or drop away in a moment; but in his inmost heart it has been photographed deeper and more lasting, and there it will remain as a monumentto him of the days when that pure girl sat on his knee, and wound her arms about his neck. When he bowed down to his idol, and worshipped her as the god- dess of his existence. When he would cheerfully have placed his bare head between her and harm, and called on high heaven to strike him dead ere he should be the means of bringing sor- row to her door. When life was only dear for her sake, and a dreadful blank when she was absent for an hour. How can I write what is to-come! My pen lingers pleadingly in the path they trod, so happily together, and almost refuses to record the opening of the dark, dark days fortune had laid out for them. Ah, Albert Anderson! you who held yourself so high, and were so sure of your theories in life; you were to be taught, through suffer- ing you would not have believed pos- sible, a greater lesson than any you had tried to teach! From the day Mrs. Haynes left the Pearl street roof, the young couple became knit in a closer union than ever before. They were always to- gether now, and each felt that the other was the dearest one on earth.   Only realizing that this girl was some- thing very dear to him, that had be- come the chief 'figure in his daily life, Anderson lived on engrossed in the contemplation of his happiness, neg- lecting almost entirely all other affairs, trusting. his business to Harry, and seeming as if locked in a dream. If he had given a thought to the pros- pect of an awakening, he might have struggled back to a sense of his man- hood and his danger. Ella, thrown at such an age into the exclusive society of her guardian, gave her whole love to him unques- tioningly. What, she was he had made her. What she was to be in life, lay in his hands to determine. What she had risen from was due to his kindness. A word against Al- bert was like a heart-thrust to her. If she ever uttered a prayer it was for him, and in her religion there was no other saviour. It is the old, old story of blinded love. Of affection that was akin to worship on her part, of love that clouded every sense of right on his. Were it not better the man had died with the mother who bore him, and been laid by her side in the shade of the Soutlwestern forests! Were it not better he had never found a place among men, and that no slab had ever marked his unknown grave! Were it not better the woman had dropped frozen, by the lake that day in January, and never known the com- forts of her after life! Weie it not well that it weie thus and more, before they came to this! For what= is early death, but the passing of a little flower from its fel- lows, to bloom again - they say-in a better garden? What isthe hunger of the child that has no bread, corn-   pared with the gnawing at the heart which comes of hopes unfulfilled and the bitterness of remorse? O ye who have suffered both, come in by hundreds and thousands, and bear me your testimony! Realizing at last something of her true position, Ella prayed him one night that,he would give her the legal right to be his, -his forever. She told him of her love and reminded him of the thousand expressions which betrayed his pwn. She begged him to marry her at once, that no danger of separation might come in view to distract her mind, and aWaken her fears. Cut to the heart he was as he lis- tened to her earnest words. A heart must have been of stone, indeed, not to have felt sorrow at such a time. But he soothed her as best he could, and put off the answer she wanted by reasonings of his own. He knew his power over her and brought it to bear. "My darling," he said, "I could never love you more than I do now, though you were made my wife a hun- dred times. There-is not a husband in the world who is so bound up in his bride as I am in you. Our life has been one pleasant dream, Ella; be careful you do not hasten its end. What can we ask for more than we have - a beautiful home, everything at our call, and - above all - each other! If you loved as I do, you would not entertain such thoughts. In seeking for greater joy let us see we do not lose what we have. Ella, we are happy enough now! Let us be satisfied!" His mind had always been the es- sence of truth to her. How could she disregard it now? For the time she 3   was silenced. And yet he could, not fail to see a look of melancholy which came, he thought, too often into her face, and at last, quite hid the old sunny smile. When he referred to it, and said it gave him pain to see it there, she found courage to speak once more of the matter that was preying on her mind. "Oh, Bert!" she cried, sadly, "I am not happy, I cannot be happy while we live in this way! ' "I am sorry, " he replied, looking very soberly at the girl, " to see that you continue to keep this subject on your mind. It is very, foolish, Ella, and can do you nothing but harm, I wish - for my sake- you would try and be again the same pleasant, happy girl you used to be before you got these notions in your head." She only answered by a look which showed the deepest sorrow, and hiding her head in her hands, the hot tears came running down like rain. Once; oh! so little time ago I he would have sprung to take that head to his bosom, and felt his own heart wrung by every sob she uttered. Now he stood as quietly as if she had been miles away, and answered her mute appeal almost sternly. "Ella! This will not do! You, are jeopardizing both my happiness and your own by this conduct. When' will you learn reason? If I was un- kind to you, if I neglected you, if I did not give up my very life to you) there might be some cause for your action. Or, if, " - said he, suddenly - "if you do not love me -- " What a face met his as the cruel dagger struck home! "If I do not love you, Bert? You! How can you say that, Bert, when I would give my soul for you, and you must know it!"   "And yet," said he, still apparently unmoved, "you will persist in making yourself miserable over nothing, when it takes all the sunshine from my life to have you do so. If you loved me, Ella, would you darken my days by your melancholly? Answer me that, before I can say more." She could not answer him then, and she rose slowly, and went down stairs to her own room. All alone she bat- tled with herself for many hours, aid when the sun had long been set she crept again to the tower-room, and softly opened the door. Albert sat in his arm-chair- that chair in which they had passed so many hours together-with his head bowed on his breast, and covered with both hands. The stillness of death was upon the room, in which the pale moonlight shown, and Ella was struck with a dreadful feeling that she was guilty of a great wrong to Albert. She pushed open the door, and en- tered. She sat down in one corner of the room on an ottoman, and si- lently watched the still form in the chair for over an hour. But it never stirred so much as a hair's breadth. He did not know she was there, and feeling this, Ella hesitated to speak for fear of startling him. God knows of what his, thoughts were, that they wrapped him so corn pletely in their meshes. But one little word he heard whispered through the stillness, pierced him like an arrow, and he gave a gasp as from a mortal wound.         \ "Bert!" He did not answer.  What had changed him so? "Bert! dear Bert?" Not one word! And yet he heard her plainly. "I am sorry, Bert! Indeed I am I   Won't you take me to your love again, Bert? I shall die if you do not speak, Bert! Oh! say you forgive me, do!" He never lifted his eyes, but he held out his hands towards her. With a glad cry she ran towards him, and pillowed her head on his bosom, and they sat together without speaking until the moonlight faded and the sun shone in at the windows. "It was a dreadful thing, 4ny little girl," he repeated, firmly. "Once is too much of such an experience. Be very careful in future, I beg you, Ella. Life is too short to waste in this way. We are, happy enough now; let us be' satisfied." U,! CHAPTER VII. PLOTS AND PLOTTERS. An elegant house at the upper end of our city has been engaged by a stranger, and fitted up in the most elegant style. The stables hold the. finest of horses and carriages, with at- tendants ready at a moment's notice to bring them out upon order. The great house itself has its multitude of servants, who spring instantly at every signal which denotes that their pres- ence is required. The residents in the locality have been agog with won- der for some weeks, while dozens of workmen have been engaged in fur- nishing the honse, and haVe watched with the deepest interest the dark lady and gentleman who have taken pos- session, every time they have shown their faces outside the walls. The sound of carriage wheels coming to the side door is enough to cause scores of eyes to be bent upon the couple, while they enter and are driv- en away.. Their return calls for a like demonstration, and the neighbor-  hood is divided in its opinions. Some   say the lady is very pretty, at any rate, while others declare they see nothing but recklessness in her face; some, (but these are the ladies,) that the gentleman is a perfect type of manly beauty; while others, (of the sterner sex,) say there is a look of dissipation too plainly to be seen for godd looks to hold a place on his countenance. That they are foreigners, no one attempts to. dispute, and if they had been disposed to do so, the investiga- tions set on foot would have 'soon proved their mistake. The servants of the dark gentleman and lady were interviewed by the servants of every- body else, and by their joint testimo- ny it was found that not one',of the' former servants spoke English.. As none of the other servants spoke the 'other languages, the amount of infor- mation elicited was inconsiderable, and the inquiring minds of the neigh- boring population were thrown into greater wonder than ever. Had it not been for positive proof that the dark .gentleman and lady spoke English, themselves, it is doubt- ful whether the neighbors would have been able to contain their wrought-up feelings. This crumb of comfort was vouchsafed them on the testimony of a young woman who had met the dark gentleman and lady on an unfrequent- ed road towards dusk one evening, and being unobserved from her hasti- ly sought hiding place by the roadside, had caught the sentence spoken by the dark gentleman to the dark lady, as the carriage swept by her, "But, my dear girl, "-- delivered' in the plainest Anglo-Saxon. This informa- tion led the guessing minds of the vicinity inio a new train, and various were the theories built upon it. But the dark couple went about their own business as quietly as if they were of   no consequence to any one but them- , selves, and their servants continued to ,"jabber," as the neighbors said, in the unknown language of their native land. It is to give the reader a pleasure that scores of the neighbors would ; have paid any price for, that he is al- lowed to take a look at the dark cou- pie in their private parlors one even- ing in the early autumn. The dark gentleman sits loungingly in a great easy chair, dressed in the finest of garments, with gown, slippers and smoking-cap. He is dividing his at- tention between a fragrant cigar, an iced claret, and the dark lady- seeming to consider the three as about equal in value as contributors to his pleasure. For he passes his time about equally between them, fly- ing from one to the other, as a butter- fly might among the flowers- taking a few whiffs at his cigar, applying his lips for a minute to the claret, and then directing his attention to his companion for a few moments. The dark lady reclines upon a sofa near by, with her long hair hanging about her waist, her form 1oosely dressed in costly materials, 'with one foot encased in a beaded slipper of value, the mate to which lies on the floor, as if it had been thrown there out of very ennui. She is regarding the dark gentleman attentively, and unless the light in her eyes is that of deep love, we must be much mis- taken. He is taking a taste of the claret now, and she knows it will be her turn to call his attention next. Yes, he is going to speak. She is all attention, and casts her dark eyes full upon him. "I say, Jennie, it has done me ever so much good to see the anxiety our friends about here have displayed   to find out who we are. Funny, isn't it?" "Yes, Fred," says the dark lady, smiling slightly. "I hope they will satisfy themselves. They work hard enough, at least." The dark gentlemen takes another whiff at his cigar, and gets around to his companion again. "You remember that man Ander- son that I have told you of," he says. "Well, I saw him to-day riding out with the girl he has adopted. They say he loves her more than ever, and neglects everything else 'for her. They did look happy enough together, as they rode by me with their fine equipage. Damn him! I can ride in as fine a carriage, and live as well as he, now. .Can't I, Jennie?" A look answers him, and this time he forgetsthe cigar and claret. "Once I was almost the dust before the feet of such as him. Now I am his equal, and he shall feel it, if we come together. The young devil! I wish I had my claws on his throat. I'd make him howl a little, the whelp that he is!" The lady is evidently used to her companion's humor, for she only laughs quietly and nods her head. "If he knew I was in the- city now, and knew who-I am, wouldn't he raise a noise about my head? But he can't do it, and there is no need for fear on that score. The sea is deep and cov- ers its secrets well." The lady shuddered a little as if his words made her cold to hear them. Then she smiled again, and waited for him to proceed. "He has a young fellow in partner- ship with him, too, that I must see about. Quite a paragon of virtue and honesty, I understand. But I'll bring him to the ground with the rest, for   presuming to have anything to do with such a chap as his master. I'll bring them all down together. What is money for but to make one man even'with another? And I'll be even with Jim Anderson, or my name's not--" "Very true," said the lady, looking up warningly. "But be a little care- ful what you say here, Fred. You may spoil all if you are rash. Who could tell but you might be over- heard?" "You are right, Jennie," acquiesced the gentleman, presently. "Right, I say, as you always are. You are worth your weight in gold." "No. more than that?" said the !ady, frowningly. "Only my weight in gold, Fred?" "Why, yes, of course, you are worth more than ten times that, my girl. But it is a common expression to de- note, an article of great value, and that is why I came to use it." "If you really think I am worth so much, Fred," said the lady, "I wish you would devote more of your time to me. I am so lonesome lying, here with nothing to do, while you sit over- your cigars and wines. They- seem almost as if they were my rivals." "What nonsense!" said the gentle- man, in reply. "Cigars and wines your rivals, indeed! Why, I cannot smoke you, and I cannot drink you. If I could, I would, I am, sure. 'I should think you would 'be tired enough of me, and wish me away, in- stead of wanting so much of my society." The lady gives an impatient shrug to her shoulders. "What have I but you?" she says, somewhat sadly. "Iwant you all the time, Fred, and al only happy when you are near me."   Putting down the cigar he, is raising to his lips, the dark gentleman sud- denly wheels his easy chair about, and looks sharply at his companion. - She returns his glance with a trustful, lov- ing look, that he cannot mistake. Watching her attentively he says, as if he had just made a discovery:- "D -d if I don't believe you do love me, girl. Come and sit in .my lap. There! Are you happy now!" "I am always so with you, Fred. " "You say you love me, Jennie. I am going to ask you to prove it. I wish you to assist me in a plan ,I am going to undertake. Will you do it?" "I will do anything for you," says the lady, calmly. "What is it you would have?" "My interests are your interests, are they not?" hie queries, watchfully. "Yes, Fred." "And my friends are your friends?" "Yes." "And my ENEMES," (she shudders at the venom he throws into the words) " are your ENEMES?" "Y-es." "Then " says he, with a face that makes her start and look up. "Then you shall help me overthrow them!  '"What can I do, Fred!" she re-, plies, disturbed at the fury that has come over him. "You? you can 'do everything. You can deceive and plot and bring ruin down on their heads. You can revenge me of the slights I had when I was poor. You can bring worse than death to their doors. And you shall do it." "But how, Fred?" "I'll tell you. You say you love me.  Let me remind you that I was looked down upon once because of poverty. That I was pursued once 'by that man Anderson, and that he   would have set the, very dogs on my track if I had not been smart enough to evade him. That he would come with a gang of men and drag me to prison to-night, if he knew where I was. That he was looked up to, when I was despised. That----but why go on. It is one story of hate be- tween us, and I will be even with him for it." "I understand, Fred." "Ah!l you do. I am, glad of that. Now what I wish is-that you shall in- fluence his girl to fly from him and leave no trace. His soul is bound up in her, and her loss will be the hardest for him to bear. You can plan with your woman's tact how to get acquainted with her, and after that you will find it easy enough. Tell her of the scandal already afloat about her and her 'lover. Convince her that flight is her best recourse. Can you do this for me, Jennie?" The lady hadno choice of answers. She loved the dark gentleman, and had given up all to him. She knew what he expected her to say, and she said it, though with an inward sigh: "Yes, Fred, I canland will." "Bravo, girl! Well said! Do your part well, and I shall not forget it. While you deal with the girl I will try my hand with the warehouse boy. If I don't bring down that Anderson with his long, brown hair- what snaky hair it is- and his highflowin ways, I am not the man I think I am. We will commence our work to-morrow, girl. And the sooner finished the better." The next day found the dark gen- tleman, Mr. Fred Hawley, at Brown's Wharf, where he managed by false representations to ingratiate himself into the confidence of the unsuspect- ing Harry.. Mr. Hawley appeared to be greatly interested in 'the details of   the shipping and commission business, and told Harry that, being a stranger in the city, he had merely called to satisfy himself regarding the way such work was done. The young ware- houseman received his visit very kind- ly and invited him to call often. They separated the best of friends, and from that day Mr. Hawley was a frequent visitor at the counting-room. As Harry was striving to obtain an equal share in the business with An- derson, having been made partner, he had practised the greatest economy in his manner of living, with the inten- tion of saving his share of the profits to go towards that object. Hawley soon discovered this, and in a way not calculated to excite suspicion, persua- ded the young man to take rides with him after his fine horses, when his work would allow of his being spared. Becoming quite infatuated with his dashing companion, Harry gave up more and more of his time to him, and often passed whole days in his society, either upon the road or at his elegant residence. -At the latter place he was introduced to Mrs. Hawley, who assisted her husband in his attempts to obtain a strong influence over the boy. From this woman's hands, in one of her most charming moments, Harry was induced to take a glass of wine, when he would have been angry at its offer by one of his own sex. As he became more and more pleased with his new acquaint- ances, he grew less interested in the warehouse business, and his work there was hurried over in a careless way. "If Anderson chooses to take his whole time to himself and never come near the office," he reasoned, "why should not I have a good time as well?"   This proposition, on being men- tioned to Hawley, was warmly second- ed by that gentleman, and the young clerk kept on in the way -he had first chosen, unmindful of the result. He began to feel uncomfortable in his common clothes, and to spend a good deal of money upon dress, so as to match his new associates. From the closest economy, he launched into the other extreme, and became one of the most fashionably dressed men of the city. 'The cigar he had never before touched, was often found between his boyish lips, and the breath of wine came far too often from his mouth. The dark gentleman could not have ,been better satisfied than he was with the result of his endeavors to draw Harry Johnson into dissipation; a better pupil could not have been found, or one who would have walked more blindly into the snares set for his feet. The dark lady had more trouble 'with her part of the work that was intended to humble in the dust young Albert Anderson. It was no easy. matter to make the acquaintance of Ella, when she was given up nearly every hour in the twenty-four to her lover-guardian. Either in the house or-in their daily drives he was with her constantly. And for a long time the dark lady's efforts were in vain. But there came a time when the couple were at,the theatre, and the dark lady sat next to Ella through the performance. In some carelessly. spoken sentence, she commenced a, conversation with the girl, alluding during its continuance to the fact that she was a stranger in the city, and had not a female friend to speak to within many miles. Ella was touched by her loneliness, and invited her to call at Pearl street, giving her the address, and receiving a plain card   marked "Mrs. Fred Hawley," in re- turn. "I, too, have very little female so- ciety, Mrs. Hawley," said Ella, "and should be much pleased ,to have you call. I reside with my guardian, Mr. Anderson, and see very little company indeed. If you will come and spend a1 few hours at any time, I shall .be very glad." The dark lady exulted inwardly in her success, and begged an introduc- tion to Mr. Anderson. The young man returned her bow  and smile pleasantly, but gave: the matter no thought, as his mind was elsewhere. It was enough for him to know she was a friend of Ella's. Her friends must be his friends, of course. Agreeably to her invitation the dark lady began to call often at Pearl street, and little by little Ella became very much attached to her new friend. She had never had a confidante so nearly her own age (for the lady was very young) and gave her a place near her heart without, a doubt of her truth. While the man was succeeding per- fectly with his charge over Harry, the woman was accomplishing the deeper work she had undertaken with Ella. And Anderson dreamed on, without a shadow of suspicion of the plottings against him. If the dark lady ever had a twinge of conscience over' the baseness of the work she was doing (and who can say she did not?) she only threw her will upon it, and hid it out of sight.' If she had known where it was all to end, she would have sooner plunged a knife in her bosom, than to have brought about what she did. But love was the motive for all her ac- tions, and there at the mysterious house at the upper end of the city, as well as at the mansion oni Pearl street,   and everywhere else on God's green earth, it is blind, blind, blind! CHAPTER VIII. THE DARK GENTLEMAN. One evening as they sat together in the twilight Mr. Hawley asked: "Are you inaking any progress with the girl, lately, Jennie? It seems as if you were dreadful slow about it. How are you getting on " "Rather slowly, Fred, I'm afraid, but just as surely as can be. Indeed, I am often half afraid to go on at all, she seems so gentle and affectionate with me. She loves him so, too, Fred. Every thought of hers seems to be of him." "Yes I suppose she does," said the dark gentleman, ironically, and with a contemptuous curl of his moustached lip: "Well, why shouldn't she? He has taken her out of the gutter and put her feet on velvet, so to speak. It's very natural she should love him, isn't it?" 'FYes, Fred. But I often think that sin is sometimes punished in kind in this world. And if any olie should 'be so cruel as to take you-from me- [ would rather they took my life first. Indeed I would." "Pshaw! pshaw! No danger of that, I guess," said the man, drawing the speaker towards him. "We have been too much each other's for us to be parted now. But the girl, does he love her as much as she loves hi?" "O, yes! He has givcn up every- thing for her. He is almost jealous of me, as the only one who comes there to take her from him for a minute." "I wonder what he'll do when he finds her gone altogether," was the bitter reply. "Perhaps it will bring   him down to a level with other men, to meet with a little sorrow. To make the blow the harder our plans must arrange for both to strike together. When he shall-be partially stunned by young Johnson's loss, he shall be knocked complely senseless to find Ella gone. Harry is ready now at any time, and you must strike home with the girl as soon as it is practica- ble. The boy has been flattered and cajoled until he is an easy tool. He only wants the proposition formally made, and he will go as I would have him." "'I shall be glad when it is over," said the woman, drawing a slight sigh. "This continued deceit is wearing on me." "Deceit, indeed!" exclaimed the man,  with an incredulous look. "That sounds well from the mouth of a woman. Why, I'thought it was the chief stock in trade of your sex." "Fred," replied the woman, looking earnestly into his eyes, "did I ever deceive you, since we first met, or why do you talk in this way to me?" "No," said he, looking rather abashed, "'ll give you credit for that; you never did." "And did you ever deceive me, Fred? Ah, you cannot say no. It is your sex that is full of deceit, and not mine, I think." "Come, now," said the man, a little ashamed, " if I ever deceived you, it was all out of my love. Tiat was all you wanted, and that you have now. If you are not satisfied with me you can leave me at any time, you know. There is no tie that keeps you but your own free will. Is it not so?" "Yes," answered the woman, weari- ly, " it is so. There is no tie between us but love. And yet how strong I feel that tie to be, Fred."   There was something in the woman's looks as she said thisj something that recalled a day in the long past, when she was a girl in her own father's vil- lage; something that made him feel a momentary pang of remorse for the relation in which he stood to her now; something that told him how unworthy he was of the love of such a one as she; something that showed the shamelessness of the work he was making her perform against the young author and his ward; something that so pierced his heart with a sense of the baseness of the crime against her he was about to commit; that he sunk into a chair, and drew her head upon his shoulder; kissing her face with more real earnestness than he had done for many a long, long day. She cried on his shoulder then, and /e cried. For an hour they were to each other as in that distant day so long ago, and were for that brief space the better for it. Then he put her gently down, with one more kiss upon her lips, and went out into the dark night. The clouds were gathering ominous- ly in the heavens, and there was no moon or stars to be ,seen. A dark night for the dark gentleman to choose to go upon an errand of evil. He looked up- at the sky, and the mo- mentary good' within his' heart van- ished. And in its place came resolu- tions darker than the clouds that gath- ered above his head. "Poor girl," he said to himself, "she will take it hard at first, I fear. She is too sensible, though, to let it affect her long. This-nonsense about love and affection is all in the imagi- nation. She will know soon enough, I hope, to make the best of what can- not be helped." There was a muttering in the thun-   der-clouds, and a flash of jagged light- ning shot out of one of them. But it did not strike him to the earth, and he went on again. "Why in the deuce-it was ordained that I should take such a fancy to that young fellow's girl, I'm sure I don't know. However that may be, I must have her now. What is the good of money unless a man can have what he desires?" Another peal and flash startled him, but he was unhurt, though it seemed as if the bolt must have passed very near him. The dark gentleman walked on, until he came to a large building, which he entered and went up stairs. He struck a light, and drawing his chair to the window, waited. He had not waited long when the door was opened and a young man came in. His dissipation was begin- ning to make ravages on his counte- nance, and his step betrayed his ner- vousness, It was Harry Johnson, of Brown's Wharf. "Ah, my boy, is it you? Devilish glad I am to see you, Harry. I have been waiting here till I got awful lone- some." "Yes, it's I, " said Harry. "I told you I would come to-night, and I am here." "So far, so good, then," replied the dark gentleman, laughing; "We will go right to business, and have it over in less than no time. By the ,way, Harry, I have a message for you. Jennie sends her best love and, wants to know why you don't call on her oftener. "'Pon my soul, -Harry, I Shall be getting jealous of you, yet." The dark gentleman twisted hi: moustache and smiled at the boy. "Come, "replied Harry, snappishy. "Don't be foolish, Fred. I want to   see how we stand, and then will be time enough for your fun.' It may be that there will be little use for it, after I find howdeep in the mud I am." "As you say, my dear boy, " re- joined Hawley. "You would play with those fellows after I warned you over and over, and, of course, being your friend, I could not refuse to lend you a little money when you asked me. You will be more careful in fu- ture, I hope. Such a lesson as this should teach you something. " "You had not ought to have lent me so much, Fred, when you knew I was, --well - when, you know, that wine got into my head. But I don't mean to blame'you. I only ask for a sight of the total sum I owe you, and I'will see what can be done about it." "I am afraid the sum is larger than you think, Harry, " said the dark gen- tleman, pretending to look anxious. "I won't b,e hard on you though, what- ever it may be. Here are the notes entire. You may add them up, if you like. I haven't looked. them over since you gave them to me." Harry took the notes and begun to count them over. His face grew long- er as the figures rose, and after exam- ining each one carefully and finding it undoubtedly correct, he counted them over once more, and then turned upon his conipanion with a look of dismay. "How much do you make it, my boy?" said the  dark gentleman, coolly, lighting a cigar, and commenc- ing to smoke. "Over two thousand dollars!" cried Harry, withl a gasp. "Who would have believed it, Mr. Hawley? Over two thousand dollars!" He was much excited, and his face grew red and white by turns. "Well," said Mr. Hawley, elevat- ing his feet upon the window-sill, and   puffing out a cloud of cigar smoke. "It might be worse, Harry." "I don't see how," said Harry, shaking his head. "I don't see how it could be worse than it is." "Why," said Mr. Hawley, calmly, "if it was three thousand, now, or four thousand; wouldn't that be worse?" "No," replied Harry, in despair. "For I am ruined as it is. Two thou- sand dollars is all I hold in the ware- house. I have worked three years to get it. Now I am put back where I came from then." "And what do you intend to do?" asked Mr. Hawley, quietly. "I see but one way," said Harry, sadly. "I can go and tell Mr. An- derson how I stand, what I have done, and that I wish my share in the busi- ness to be paid over. He. will then get another partner, and I shall begin the world again." He spoke with the calmness of despair, and appeared as one resigned to a fate from which there was no escape. "And you see no other way?" said Hawley, putting down his cigar. "None," was the reply. "Then I will give you one," said the dark gentleman- and very dark indeed he was then, - "and if you are not a genuifie fool you will take it., You owe this money to me. I can get along without it for a while. I am willing to help you out of this trouble, and will take one thousand down, and the other at your conven- ience. You can thus continue in business, and come out all right in the end, with a good lesson from your misfortune." "But where am I to raise the thou- sand to pay you now?" said Harry,   catching at the straw thrown towards him, like a drowning man. "Not the least trouble about that," replied Hawley. "You can take that sum from the bank, crediting it against yourself, and replace it when you like. No one will notice it, for Anderson never looks at the books, and there will be no dishonesty about itf as the money will be repaid." The dark gentleman leaned forward to mark the effect of his suggestion. Harry had caught at the gleam of hope thrown toward him, and was struggling with it, before he replied. "You know, Mr. Hawley, said he at last, "that I would not do' a really dishonest act for the world-espe- cially to Mr. Anderson, who has been such a true friend to me. But if the way you propose can be carried out, I do not see why I cannot save myself yet. it is a bad matter all through, and nust be settled some way at once." "I am glad to see you take such a sensible view of the case," said Haw- lew, grasping Harry's hand. "You will come out all right, and be the better for this youthful indiscretion. When will you draw the money for me? Make it at your convenience, you know, for H can wait, and don't want to hurry you.. "I will wait, I think, a little longer, until money is flush," replied Harry, knitting his brows thoughtfully. "Say in a month or two. I will be going now,I guess. I have, a slight head- ache, and had better go to bed early to-night." "Havd a glass of wine before you go?" said Hawley, going towards the sideboard. "It will do you good if you don't feel just right." "No, Fred," said the boy, putting   up his hand to stop him. "No more wine for me. I cah't afford to pay so dearly for my'wine as I did for the last again. I have done with it forever." "Well," said Hawley, coolly. "As you like, my boy. I think a little does me good, but you have a right to your own opinion, I suppose. You will not refuse to send a message to Jennie though, will you-? She always inquires whether you send any word. Really, I half believe the woman is in love with you, Harry. Well, you can have her, after I am gone. She is a jewel, my boy, and no mistake." The dark gentleman slapped his compan- ion on the back familiarly, and laughed heartily at his confusion. "Seems to me you, are mighty happy when I am down," rejoined Harry, fretfully. "One would almost think you were glad of my mis- fortunes." "Pshaw!" ejaculated Hawley. "Don't talk in that style to a man who has saved you from ruin and disgrace, as I have. If I were disposed, I could bring down a pretty muss about your ears. But' come! Let's not think of that. I am ghing to stand by you, and some day when you are sorry. for this, you'll, do me justice. You are a little excited now, and I forgive you." Do him justice, indeed! Perhaps the lad may do that yet. The rope is dangling ready noosed to go on his false neck were justice done him. He thinks of this afd laughs inwardly. The two men came down stairs and separated. Harry to go with aching temples to his room, wishing earnestly that he might awake from the dreadful dream into which he had been thrown. He feels that if it had not been for Fred Hawley's companionship, he   might have been now an honest, upright man. He does not know that it was through Hawley that the gam- blers were able to draw him into their net and fleece him of his money when his head was full of wine. But he does know that the dark gentleman did wrong in lending him such a large sum when he was incapable of appre- ciating its value. And feels that his protestations of friendship and esteem are not worth thinking of. Yet he realizes that he is in this man's power, and must be careful in his actions toward him. He sees that only by slow steps can he hope to pick his way out of the net one night of drunkenness has thrown about him. He thinks of his life since he left Hillsdale, and wonders what his friends there would say were hil position made known. If he had a thought of owning the truth to his partner, and relying on his mercy for aid, he gives it up, and resolves anew to do as the dark gentleman suggested. Tired out with thinking, he falls asleep, and dreams of dangers that are about him, until at last the morning wakes him, weary and-dissatisfied. Fred Hawley left the boy at the foot of the stairs, and walked to the mysterious house up town, where he found the dark lady sitting alone, waiting his return. He took his usual chair, and sat down by her side. "I have seen the warehouse boy to-night," he said, "and he has con- sented to my proposal, as I knew he would. You must make quick work with the girl now. Then I will drop Anderson an anonymous letter, that will set him to looking over the books, and discover the lad's secret. The circle is narrowing around them and will soon close in about their heads. They shall learn a lesson they will   not soon forget, before I have done with them." "The girl will be ready for flight soon," replied- the dark lady, sadly. "It is a shameful task you have given me, Fred, and I feel as if my sins must be revisited upon me for this deed I am about. Once through with this, I will never undertake another such mission. Even my love for you, great as it is, would not induce me to cast such a burden on a soul too full of sin already." I will never ask you to, Jennie," said the dark gentleman, with a secret meaning in his tone. "Remember, I promise you faithfully never to ask you to conspire against a living soul again.'"' "I shall be so glad if you will not, Fred," she replied. "There is no reason why we should not be happy together, and let others take care of themselves. After this is over, we will go away again, and live as we did before this hate got such a strong possession of your mind." "Yes, Jennie, we will. But the best rule of life is to take the world as it comes, making the best of its ups and downs. It is a changeable world, anyhow, Jennie. That's what it is." Several days .after this the dark gentleman brought home a document, and read it over once to himself before he went to bed. It gave the mysterious house and furniture, with $1o,ooo in money to the dark lady, in remembrance of the giver's long love for her. And this was to pay for a broken heart! For it must break when he left her. He took the dark lady in his arms when he had read the deed, and kissed her more than once upon her loving cheeck. And smoothing back her long, dark hair, and marking the t   beauty of her face, and feeling the pressure of her hand in his, He\ mut- tered between his teeth: "Poor girl. It's a changing world, Jennie. So it is!" CHAPTER IX. WRECKS AND RUIN. James Albert Anderson was not the first man doomed to awake to terrible disappointment out of a dream of the fondest bliss. The blow came as hard upon him,' however, it was so unexpected and unprepared for. It was not until December snows again whitened the earth that the plans of the dark gentleman came to' their Sulfillment. One delay after, another had interfered to postpone the final day of- his revenge. At last it came, and he dropped the anony- mous note to Anderson, advising him to examine his books at a certain date and see whether, there was not a large sum unrightfully taken. The note was signed "A Friend;" and bore the appearance of good faith and hon- esty. The young man received- it with his usual mail at his residence, and read it over with an interest he had given to no other f6r months. Ella was sitting in another part of the room and he called her to come and see the letter. ' Come here a minute, Ella," said he. "This letter is about Harry- young Johnson, you know, down at the wharf. I am afraid there is some trouble there." Ella came and sat down by his side while he read the letter over to her. "What do you think of it?" said he. "I, think it's all a made-up story," sle replied, frankly. "Or else some plot to ruin the poor boy. I'm sure   he wouldn't do anything wrong, Bert. Do you think he would?" Anderson kissed the sober, face and answered: "I can't tell, my pet, until I go and see about it. I made up my mind once never to trust another person, and it may be I have done wrong in breaking that resolution. Other men appearing as honest as Harry have deceived me, and he may be doing the same. I had not ought to have left everything to him so, but your sweet self has kept me from the wharf as well as from other places. I shall go down to-night and examine the books. If he is honest, all right. If he is not- " "But if he is not, you won't be hard on the poor boy, will you, Bert?" "No," replied Albert, smiling at her earnestness. "But you wouldn't have me continue in business with any one who had proved himself unworthy. That would be a ruinous rule to follow. If I find' Harry has been taking advantage of my absence to defraud me, he must go, certainly." The girl listened very soberly. " O, Bert; I don't believe you know how to forgive," she said. He put back the golden curls that would fall over her face. "I have forgiven you all your sins, haven't I? he said, lightly. "And would you forgive me, what- ever I did, Bert?" Her manner touched him deeply. "How can you doubt it, my darling?" he replied. "Yes, I think I could forgive you - anything." He could not understand then why she burst into tears, and laid her head on his shoulder, as if some one might tear her away else. He did not know why she clung so to his breast, nest- ling there as a frightened bird might   in the secure shade of a great tree. It was well he did not. That came too soon as it was. All day she seemed strange,' and the young lover was much troubled as he noticed it with his watchful eyes. He told her once he feared she was ill, and asked her to lie down for a rest. But she said no, she was quite well, and only wanted to be near him, and feel his arm about her. So he had the arm-chair brought to the grate, and made her sit in it, while he sat near reading and writing. Whenever he stopped a moment to observe her, he always found her gaze 'fixed on hiri so intently that it quite disturbed him. He kept on with his writing after that for a long time, knowing every minute that she had not taken her eyes from him once, but fearing to encounter them again, there was such a magnet- ism there. He had been often face to face with wild animals, and met their angry eyes with his own gaze. But this was so different, he knew not how to meet it. He decided to re- main quiet, and at -least not to disturb her by noticing her manner. Sud- denly, after an hour of silence, she spoke. It seemed to him the strang- est of all-that question that came from her sweet lips. "Do you love me, Bert?" He looked at her in amazement, and was for the time almost persuaded that she was delirious. But no, she was as sane as he, though very much in earnest. "I say, Bert, do you love me?' "Better than my life," he answered sincerely. "Will you always love me?" What did the girl mean? "Yes, Ella, I shall always love you. "Have I been a very bad girl 'to   you, Bert, since you took me to your home? "No, darling! No! You have been the best of girls." "And will you never be sorry you took me in, that day you found me by the lake, Bert?" "Surely not, Ella. It was the be- ginning of the brightest days of my life." "So it was of mine, Bert; so it was of mine." Filled with anguish he could not know, she let the tears come through the hands that hid her face. Ander- son was inexpressibly pained at the sight and tried to comfort her. But she sobbed on for some time, seeming quite'overcome with the violence of her feelings. When she had become calmer, she went on with what she had to tell him. "I am so glad you love me, Bert, and are not sorry you took me home. I wanted to hear you say so once more. I want you, besides, to'never forget that I love you only; that- I would give up my life if it would do you good; that I shall always love you, whatever you may come to think of me. There was never but one thing wanted to complete my happi- ness, and that you are persuaded is not for the best. I mean our mar- riage, Bert. I wanted that, so that no disgrace could ever come upon you as it might now. But I will not press, it, after what you said before." She paused a moment. The conse- quences of years might have been prevented had he granted the appeal that filled her loving heart. He might have stood upright again among men, and saved the suffering that was to come for both. The reply was half risen to his lips, but he shut it back. Should he give up his long-cherished   theories for one weak  moment's thought? He did not see the abyss before his feet, yawning impatiently for him, and Ella sighed, as she saw he made no answer, and continued: "I am only a poor weak girl, Bert, but I think you have loved me or you would not have been so kind as you have. I have often thought how awful it would be to lose you, Bert, and can think if you love me as well, how you must feel when I am gone. But you will not forget me, then, will you?  ! promise me you will not!" "When you are gone, indeed!" said Anderson, rousing himself and going to her chair to kiss her sad face. ' You must not talk in that way about dying, my little girl. I cannot spare you yet, and shall not let you go. You really are not well, and must go to bed and rest a while. Come, now, like a good- girl. I insist that you lie down until you are better!" He understood her speaking of going away to mean approaching death, and she did not dare to correct him. He assisted her to the couch, and after being assured that she needed nothing he could procure, he went back to his table. Pretty soon she called him, and asked that the curtains might be drawn away from the bed so that she could watch him\ at his work. He tried to persuade her that she had better go to sleep, but she persisted, and he drew away the curtains and sat down again. How intently she watched him as he wrote page after page, and piled them one by one upon the mass before him! How she almost envied the table that he 'leaned upon, the paper-he was confiding his thoughts to, and the pen through which he spoke, That pen was leaving a track that should delight thousands, fcr the   young author had many admiring readers. What was she that she should stand in his way, when fame held the garland ready above his bright forehead? What was she that her name should be coupled with his by the scandal-mongers of the. day? When I am gone," she said, "he will be himself again. I have led him away from his duty. He will return to it then. I have brought him down to the level of other men. When I am gone he will rise again. He may not forget me - Heaven grant that! - but he will have before him a bril- liant future that will much more than compensate for such a small loss as I am. 1 will go away, to work and earn my own bread, as I did before, and he will live on in luxury, blessing me perhaps, some day, in his heart, for leaving him free, O Bert! my soul, my life! may God bless you always!" Albert wrote' on, litttle dreaming of the thoughts in that. young curly, golden head lying there on his pillow. On His pillow 1 He took up this last point, and held it in his mind. A fairer head was never laid on any pillow than that lying there on his. The love, the trust-that had been his; was it not worth a life to own them? How his pen wrote on, so fast and steadily, yet he hardly knew a word he was writing! His thoughts were not there. It is a strange fact, but no less a true one, that the lines he penned that afternoon were never equalled by any others from his hand. Yet when he had finished he could have told hardly a word he had written. There Ella lay, such a picture of beauty to his mind as never a painter produced. . One white arm thrown over the snowy coverlid, the sweet face with those blue eyes turned   always on him, and the clouds of hair -such hair, streaming about her neck and shoulders. 'What right had he to the possession of such a treasure? None! He thought of that, then.  He thought of that -dear girl whom he loved so well, and of the many evils that might come to her should he be taken by death. He half resolved that he would repent of his determin- ation not to marry, and so far amend his wrong-doing. To-morrow he would speak to her on the subject. All! the fatal time men designate "to-morrow." A time that never came and never will. A time for the remedying of all evil, and the- inaguration of all good. Oh! the fatal time! Well! Let him think of it now, if he ever shall. For to-morrow she will be gone beyond the reach of his resolutions, his sympathies, and his love. Gone with the greatest secret a woman can have; that his rising fort- unes may not be retarded by what she may thus prevent. Gone out of the greatest love a woman have, wh/ich gives p all for i i itolo, even that idol itsef! She knew he loved her before all the world, and would stand by her side against all living. But if she remained, his shame would be brought home to him, and his prospects be forever blasted. Go she must.  She was resolved. When the evening came on, he left his writing and came and sat down by the bedside. . He put one arm under her head and pushed back that wealtlh of gold with his hand. "I'm going down to the wharf a short time, Ella," he said, softly. "I ought to see about Harry at once." "You are going to see whether he has deceived you, .ert? And if he has you will never believe him again?"   "Never," said the young man, soberly. "He should have thought of all the consequences of his act; before he committed it." "Yes," said Ella, musingly, " so- he - should." "I still have hopes he is innocent,. you know," said Anderson, not under- standing her strange reply. "But if he is not, I shall be compelled to part with him. It is a rule I have always followed never to believe again in one' who has deceived me." What wonder that she should burst into tears again! It took away the last ray of ho6pe from her heart. "After I am gone," she thought, "he will curse me, and drive me from his mind. It must be so+" What wonder either that she clung to him so when she gave him a part- ing kiss! And that she cried so when le left her side that he came back and asked her whether he had not better stay in with her instead of going out. He could postpone the visit to Harry until the morrow, and was really uneasy about her. "No!" she said, "You must. go, Bert. I am only a little excited, and will be all right soon. Forgive me if I have ever done you wrong or caused you pain. There now! Good-by. I feel better already," What a story that was to tell when she raised to his the whitest face that ever served as the exponent of a living soul. But it was quite dark in the room, and he could not see this. He caught a long, deep kiss, and went away from the white face, to see it again, who can say in how many long, long years? *  *  *' *  *  *  *  In half an hour more Anderson astonished Harry by appearing at the office and' taking down the books.   As he commenced to turn them over, the boy arose and started to leave the room. "Where are' you going, Harry?" said Anderson, quietly. "nly to leave the room a moment,. sir," replied Harry. "I wish you to remain," said An- derson, in the same tone. The boy looked up at his com- panion. "I told you I was going out for a moment, Mr. Anderson," he said. "And I told you to remain," re- joined Anderson, in a louder tone. "I think I have a little matter to settle with you before you go. I am in earnest, and you had better not trifle with me." "Mr. Anderson, please to recollect that I am your partner and not your slave!" $aid Harry, indignantly. "I shall go when I choose, and no one shall prevent me." He started for the door again." "Stop!" cried Anderson, warning- ly. "I have a word to say with you  first. Where is the money you have taken from the bank? I find a thou- sand dollars gone by these books. Speak, or it will be the worse for you!" The young man was in a passion, and Harry saw a contest was not to be thought of. He gave up all hope at once, and answered, truthfully:  "I lost it at the gaming-table, Mr. Anderson. H " The young man waited to hear no more. He rained down a shower of abuse upon Harry's head that quite drove him to distraction. It seemed as if the months of love he had been through had been keeping back so much of hate, and that he had some premonition of the fact that those days were over, and the others must   commence. Never before Iad Harry heard him use such language, and he was too stupefied to attempt a reply. Goaded at last to desperation, he watched his opportunity to dash out of the door and into the street. In a minute more, Anderson left the warehouse ard rode over to the office of Jacob Jenkins, Esq., attorney and counsellor at law, to lay the case before him, and ask his advice. He -was hardly seated in the lawyer's room, when a cry went up in the streets that proclaimed the existence of the direst of destroyers, "FIRE. A little later a breathless boy came running in to ask if Mr. Anderson was there, and to say that Brown's Wharf was burning and fast going down to ashes. Brown's Wharf was built of perisha- ble materials, and being partially filled with combustible merchandise, proved an easy prey to the flames. The forked tongues of fire ran over the old 'roof and ate the shingles as if they had been paper. They ran in and out of the windows, and closed around the bales and boxes piled up within the building. The light of the burning heap was seen upon the face of the sky for many miles. It gave light to more than one traveller, and more than one, too, that we know. Anderson saw this part of his riches going down before his eyes, :without emotion. Better so ten times over than the false faith of the man Fogg ard the boy Harry. Was there no one he could trust? If not, then let S the building burn and cover up the memory of these deceivers with its  charred timbers and its white ashes. I The engines were brought to the place and after a time a feeble stream  was playing upon the fire. Just at t 4'   Y this point it was remarked the flames burned the brightest of any. "There is no help for you I fear, " the engineer remarked to Anderson, t "The building must go down." "Yes, it can't be saved now," said the young man. Then he added to himself: "Yet it could have been savedat the beginning by so little labor! Well, it's like the rest of our life. What is more dangerous in any sense than Playing with Fire?" A call to man the brakes (for it was in the days of the old hand-engines), was answered by a hearty cheer from the crowd who had gathered; and scores of willing hands soon had all of the pumps working. At one of the engines a young lad was seen, flushed and excited, with his coat off, working in his shirt sleeves and urging on the others to greater exertions. There was a wild look about him that at- tracted the attention of his compan- ions, and he seemed to labor with the strength of two men, A dark gentleman, peering about through the cloud of smoke, found the lad and touched him on the shoulder. "I am sorry to see this, " he said. "You should not have let your anger carry you so far, my boy. It will -go hard with you I am afraid, before this thing is over." "What!" cried the lad, falling back. "Do you think I could be ca- pable of such a crime as this?" "You did not set the fire then?" questioned the gentleman in a tone of surprise. "Never!" said the lad earnestly. "I swear to you, upon my soul to Ieaven, I do not know how it caught!" "A  bad business, anyhow," said the gentleman, leading the boy away front the crowd. "I am afraid it will be   charged to you, as I hear you had high words with Mr. Anderson to-night. Such things will count with a jury should you be taken." The boy looked horrified. "What shall I do?" he said. "I am inno- cent, but how can I prove it?" "Well, my lad, that is just the trouble. There is only one way -" "And that-" "Is flight. Come, I have stood your friend too long to give you up now. You shall be far enough away at sunrise to keep you safe until I can see whether you are suspected. Will you trust me?" "Yes," said the boy, only thinking of the danger in which he stood. "I will go at once." "Come with me, then," said the gentleman. He led the boy to a coach that stood near, made him get in and they drove away in the direc- tion of the mysterious house. Within an hour afterward the same dark gentlemanwalked on Commer- cial street, and watched the men put- ting the streams on to what remained of the great warehouse of J. A. An- derson & Co. Albert Anderson, him- self, stood near, apparently the least interested of the spectators, except when he was questioned by the .fire- men or acquaintances. He had jnst ordered a supper prepared for the men who had labored to combat the flames, when the devil- I mean the dark gentleman - came up. "Have they taken young Johnson, yet?" he asked Anderson. "Taken him for what?" rejoined the young man, sternly. "Why, for incendiarism, of course!" said the dark gentleman. "For burning the warehouse, do you mean?" said Anderson, turning upon his questioner.   "Certainly," replied the dark gen- tleman. "Who says he did it?" asked An- derson, giving the man a searching look. '  "Why, I understand it to be a mat- ter of no doubt. I supposed the offi- cers were on the track of the young fellow. They say you had a quarrel with him in the early evening. But it may all be a mistake." The dark gentleman turned to go. Anderson had been regarding the man steadily. A sudden dim re- membrance seemed to connect him with himself. "Hold!" he cried. "I have seen your face before." "Very likely," said the other, coolly, "I have lived here some time." What could the ' young man do? Certainly not follow his companion'i ; and arrest him by force as his first- thought would have led him. So the dark gentleman escaped, and entering his carriage some way off, he laughed grimly, and said:  "Well, Mr. James Albert Ander- son, I have been well revenged on you this night. Your trusted partner, your goods, and as you will yet learn, your lovely ward are gone. I will be her guardian, now, I guess. .Only one thing more would I ask. And that is to see those tongues of flame lick up that dark brown hair of yours, and drink your ugly blood. Good- night, my dear fellow, good-night.  CHAPTER X. "EFT ALONE. The' light of Brown's Wharf burn- ing had lit up the sky and served as a r brightener of its dark face to more than one traveller. The dark lady   and Ella Anderson saw it as they rode away from the city, and though they knew their was a great fire in progress, neither thought for a moment of the possibility of its being Ander- son's property that was being de- stroyed. Harry Johnson rode away with the dark gentleman, marking with an aching heart the red lines overhead. Later, the dark gentle- man alone, was surprised at their brightness as he rode after his tired horses to an outward station. And later yet, Albert Anderson watched the heap of destruction that had been his property, and saw at last that there was nco danger of a fresh out-burst of the flames. It had been feared all night that several adjacent ware- houses would be burned, but the ef- forts of the firemen had saved them, and the young man was so thankful for it that he held his, own loss in light estimation. It had been his fault, throughout, his thoughtlessness and disregard of the lessons he had been taught, that had done this thing, and he alone was to suffer for it. It was right, quite right that it should be so. It was getting near morning and 1 what with the cold and hunger and disappointments that came upon him, Anderson was well nigh exhausted. t He went into ;an eating house near I by where the firemen were being re- ' freshed, and partook of a sandwich a art* cup of coffee. The men rose as he entered and gave three cheers for  their entertainer, to which he re- sponded. "Thank you, boys; you  have worked hard and deserve better e compensation than -this." Then, the quadroon being ready for him at the door, he bid them a good morning, s and was driven to the house he had I   y made into a place of beauty. Pearl h street, 114. n  Dismissing the boy as usual, An- t derson entered the door, and passed - up stairs to his room-and hers. The -stillness was unbroken by a sound y save his own steps on the stair-cases , and along the halls. He reached the door and entered it softly, lest he - should wake her whom he left there lest night with his kiss upon her lips. Perhaps she is worse! He hopes not! There is that love within his heart for her that gives a pang at the thought of her suffering. He goes quietly into the room, and turns up the dimly-burning lamp. ' What!' The bed is empty. An icychillness that he never knew came upon the young man, and a fear so horrible as to cut him to his inmost heart came sweeping over him. But he steadied himself a moment, and then hurried down stairs to the room of Ella's maid. "Nanette," he called. "Nanette  Nanette!" "Yes, sir." "Come to my room as quickly as possible," said he, his voice in a tremor. "There's something wrong." "Yes, sir, I will come directly." In a few moments the maid came up, and he questioned her about her mistress, with such a steady look) and close attention, that she was almost afraid of him; "Where is Miss Ella?" he de- manded. "Why sir, indeed, I thought her in her room," said the maid, in a fright- ened tone. "When did you see her last?" "Not since morning, sir; she said she would call if she wanted. me, and I have not heard from her since i   Such-a look of despondency as came over his face. "Cal up the whole house," he 'said, choking with his fears; "call up everybody and see if we can find where she has gone." Everybody in the house was aroused, and each solemnly declared they had not seen their mistress since the morning before. Albert's worst fears were confirmed; she must have gone of her own will, without a word of warning to any one. "Gone! But where? O God! how could she have left him, when she was his only life and happiness?" He had too much of that pride which always held to him to "show the depth of his grief before the servants, and he told them to go below stairs and wait until he wanted them again. Even after he was alone and the door was locked upon him he did not rave and tear his hair. That would have been the natural way, but who ever knew Albert Anderson to do as other men? Now was the time for action, if 'it was ever to be taken, and the weight of his sorrow could not bear him down so low as to make him forget this. There was one person more about the premises who-had not been notified of the fact that Ella was missing, and he must be called directly. The bell wire leading to'the stables was pulled, notifying the quadroon that he was wanted at the house. Hardly had this been done when a knock at his door announced the housemaid. "Here is a letter, sir," said she, "that was left here just now by a man, who wanted it delivered in haste. I thought it might be possible --" He tore the letter from her hand, and opened it quickly.. He had never seen the writing before, and the mo- mentary hope that it might be from   Ella died within him. He looked for the signature. There was none. Then he read over the contents of the letter, which ran as follows: To Mr. Anderson, 114 Pearl street, City:- If this letter, coming from a sorrowing woman, can assist in any way to undo the great wrong she has helped to accomplish, she will be very glad. Your ward, Miss Ella, left your house at 9 last evening, and took a carriage to Homer's Station on the WeStern Railroad. From there she took the midnight train west. I can tell you no more. You may find her by following at once. Do so, I pray you, and thus help to take from me the/great sin I have committed. I have written truly and honestly, as there is a Heaven above! Yours, As Anderson finished the letter. Sam, the quadroon entered the door. Albert glanced at his watch anxiously, and then turned to his faithful servant. "There is yet time," said he, "if you make haste, Sam. Ella is gone and I must take the next western train. Have the horses saddled im- mediately-it will take less time than to harness,- and we will gallop to the depot. No- questions, now, but hurry." The boy comprehended and ran down stairs with all speed, and his master was but a minute behind him. , The horses were made ready, and hard riding brought them  none too I soon to the railroad station. s  "If I am not home in a day or two," called Anderson, as he sprang , for the train, "I will write you what , to do." He said something more, but [ the increasing clatter of the train drowned his voice, and he took a seat , in the car. Now came the first mo- r ment of rest since the great shock, - and a flood of memories, like a moun- n tain torrent, swept over him, and made   him giddy with their rushing. He bent his head until it rested on the seat before him, and tried to hush the voices that whispered in his ear. Whispered such dreadful things, too. Whispered of Hope, that had left him. Of Love, that had proved faithless. Of Trust that had decived him. And then of Hate, and Pas- sions, and Revenge, and Death. It was a dreadful vision indeed that crowded his fair young head as he let it lie there while the train went rush- ing on. And it left him weak and tired when the locomotive shrieked for Homer's Station, and ran with its infernal noise into the little depot. But he had work to do here, and he nerved himself to his task. ' He went into the depot waiting room, and in- quired for the depot-master of a girl who stood at the counter. "He is busy among' the baggage, now, sir," said the girl, "but he will be in soon. I am his daughter, and if it's any thing in the station you want, I can get it for you." Anderson looked at the girl earn- estly. "Were you here when the midnight train went out last night," he said. "Yes, sir." "Hah!" he cried nervously. "Did you see a young lady, with golden hair and blue eyes,--take the train?" "Yes, sir, I did. She came in a carriage from the city. There was a gentleman here inquiring for her a few hours ago, and I believe " "A gentleman," cried Anderson. "Yes, sir, a dark gentleman, with very dark eyes and hair, and felt hat. He was very anxious to know whether she took the train, as he said-" "What? what did he say?" cried the young man, holding hard to the counter for support.    "Why, sir," replied the girl, aston- ished at 'the effect her words were having. "He said she was his wife, and--" "His wife/" Albert Anderson's head dropped into his hands as if it had been severed from the body. "Well,"-looking up again-"what else?" "That she had-why, how pale you are - that she - that she was his wife, and had eloped with another man. He gave me a half eagle, and was quite excited about her loss." Anderson put his hand in his pocket and drew a handful of gold and silver coins. Laying them on the counter he said, earnestly, "If it is money you want, girl, you shall be paid your own price. But if you know anything more, tell me for GoD's sake. The girl looked at the money and then at the white face before her. "I know nothing more sir," she said, "or I would gladly tell you. Was she a relative of yours, sir?" "A relative! My God! She was my all." "Perhaps you know the gentleman that was here before you, sir," said the girl - the dark gentleman I spoke of. A man with black hair and eyes and a felt hat. He was in here a few min- utes ago and must have gone aboard the train. He said he should follow the young lady this morning." The depot-master's daughter was deter- mined to earn hei wages if possible. The bell rang and Anderson stag- gered on board the train. Seating himself in one of the forward cars he gave himself up to thought for a few moments. Who could this dark gen- tleman be that had come out to find Ella, and even said that she was his wife? He knew no one with whom he could connect the description. Then   he remembered what else the girl had said. This gentleman was probably on the train somewhere. He would go and find him. Several cars were passd through, and then he came to the last one. A moment more, and his man stood before him. "A dark gentleman, with black hair and eyes, and a felt hat." That must be him. And more! As the man rose and recognized him in his terror, Albert saw the face that had looked into his last night on Commercial street, and accused the boy Harry. The face that he had marked, when the flames'of the burn- ing warehouse litup its darkness, and the face he had seen before. With every bad passion centered to convulse his brain, he shouted, "I have you now," and sprang after him in the ex- tremity ofhis madness, from the swiftly moving train, after his enemy. The young man must have been mad indeed to risk such a leap. The chances were ten to one he would be taken up with broken limbs, even if he escaped with his life, as the pen- alty of his rashness. But he thought of nothing but the man before him, and when he found himself, half stunned, with his garments sadly soiled by the soft earth, but otherwise unhurt, his first thought was strong upon him again, and he started up and looked about him. Away in the distance sped the train, and he saw the clouds of smoke that came from the engine blowing away over the tree-tops. Directly after, he heard a sharp whistle, which he well knew meant " down brakes." He felt that they must be stopping the train to back down to look for him and his enemy. Where was his enemy? The train had been going so swiftly that he was   far behind, and undoubtedly safe enough by this time. The young man saw it would not do to remain until the train arrived, and be taken aboard and compelled to answer the questions of the passengers. With his passions considerably cooled by his concussion with the ground, he hurried away from the place. The woods were thick about him and he did not know where he was, but by keeping along irr a straight course he came to a travelled road, and walked along upon it, mean- ing to inquire his way definitely when he came to a house. Pretty soon he began to see that fthe road looked natural, and when he remembered when he had been there, it gave him- a start-that quite unmanned him. There! under the shade of those overhanging elms, he had asked her that day to call him "Bert," because his father who loved him had called him so! There she had said, "I will call you what you like, Mr. Ander- son!" and the new era had com- menced. ' There she had submitted to his clasps and had made him happy by innocent ways and affec- tionate utterances. There he had taken his first steps out of the solitary road he had so long trodden, with her for his new companion. And-was it all to end thus? Had he reached the end of the new path, and was he to find henceforth only thorns, where there had been roses, and sorrow, where there had been joy? Must he cast her image aside hereafter, as he had done those of other false friends? As each new thought crowded upon him, he groaned inwardly arid clenched his hands in pain. Of but one thing was he sure, and that was that she must be found if it was within the power of man to find her.   Coming to a little tavern by the roadside, Anderson engaged a car- riage and driver to take him back to Homer's station. With his brain racked to indescribable suffering by the contest going on within him, he lay back in the covered carriage and tried to collect his thoughts, while he was being swiftly driven 'over the country. He penciled a brief note to Mr. Jenkins, telling him to take charge of his affairs while he should be absent, which might be longer or shorter according to circum- stances. Arriving at last at the depot, he alighted and sat down to await the train. While sitting in the parlor of the little hotel near by, he saw from the window some men coming toward the house, bearing between them a still form on a stretcher. Walking out into the passage-way as the proces- sion came in, Anderson asked one of the men what was the matter. "Nothing serious, sir, I guess," replied the man, politely. ' "Only a broken leg or so. This chap was just foolish enough to jump from a train\ up here awhile ago, and did well to get off so easily, I think. There was two of 'em went off together, but t'other one hasn't been found yet. This one crawled more'n half a mile to where some laborers were fixing the track, and, they helped bring him down. That's all, sir." It was well Anderson had taught himself to control the exhibition of his feelings. "Poor fellow!"  he exclaimed. "Let me see his face." There was!a smell of ether in the room to which they led him, ard two surgeons were busy with a white limb, belonging to the form that had been brought- in on the stretcher. The young man turned a shade paler as he   recognized the features which the anaesthetic had rendered immobile and quiet. It was the face of Haw- ley, the dark gentleman. One of the surgeons turned, and caught the expression of Anderson's face as he recognized the features on the bed. "Ah!" he exclaimed.  "The un- fortunate gentleman is a relative of yours, is he not, sir? "A relative!" cried the young man, recoiling. "He! That nian of my kin? No, thank God! He is not!" "And yet, pursued the surgeon, looking first at one and then at the other, "he is Very like you, sir, in feature." "What!" cried Anderson, startled., "Yes, sir, it is so. He is dark and you are fair, but otherwise, baring the' difference in age, you might be "brothers." "You have a strange view," said Anderson, contemptuously, "to pair such a man as he with one so precise- ly opposite. If I thought there was one feature similar between us," he added wrathfully, "I would cut it off, so help me Heaven!" "Will you be able to save the limb, sir?" asked a bystander, of the sur- geon. "We may with care," was the reply. "But the gentleman must be kept quiet, and I would advise all to leave the room before he becomes con- scious." 'The spectators took the hint and gradually went out. Shortly after, the western-bound train came up, and An- derson started again on his journey. There was no dark gentleman on the train this time to disturb him, and he rode quietly on, mile after mile, always thinking and planning over the best course for him to pursue. He could   lay out no definite plan to be followed, nor could he even determine posi- tively what was to be done if his search should be crowned with suc-- cess.. Only one thing was sure, and that he never let fall from his mind an instant. Ella had left him without a clue to her whereabouts, and -she must be found if it was in the power of man to find her. BOOK THE SECOND. CHAPTER I. AFTER THE STORM. In one of the rooms of the Pearl street mansion--not the  Tower Room! never there now-! Albert An- derson sits by a well-filled grate. All has proved futile, all his endeavors to get trace of his ward, and he has come back to this place disheartened, tired and ill. Ill in body. For he has been idle in mind for days, and serious consequences have threatened from' the dreadful strain upon his brain by the events of the past month. Physicians have come and gone, shak- ing their heads sagely in response to anxious inquiries from the domestics below stairs. They have poured out their doses of medicine which he has swallowed unquestioningly. They have recommended courses of treat- menit, which he has quietly submitted to. And still the medical gentlemen shake their heads in a wise sort of way, and murmur among themselves that "he may survive the shock, but-- ." The quadroon boy is troubled at his master's distress, and drops in often to see if there is not something he can do for him. The housekeeper issues instructions to her subordinates   not to make unnecessary noise, and in their universal love for the young master, the house is kept so quiet, that'he can hear from his room the lking of the hall clock, down the stairs. The news-boys cry their pa- pers less loudly as they approach the house, and the letter-carrier rings the muffled bell softly and goes down the steps on tiptoe. The business men on the street stop to inquire of each other about "young Anderson," and fear his heart was too much bound up in his lovely ward to allow him to rally again. Reporters from the newspapers interview the quadroon daily, and announce to their readers each morning that "Mr. Anderson is no worse than yesterday." Jacob Jenkins, Esq., thinks of the "poor boy" as he works upon his client's affairs, under a full power of attorney, and tells his good wife in confidence that there will be a will settled soon that will astonish people, he will war- rant. More than one representative of the Meek and Lowly One, is delib- erating sagely within himself as to whether, on the whole, he lead better offer his services at the funeral of so great a sinner as Albert Anderson. And everybody else who has ever seen the fair-faced young man, with the long brown hair, and especially those who have seen him with his beautiful ward, talk over the affair, and have their own opinions and theories.  They all thought he was crushed by the weight that had come down upon him. But they did not know him. The blow had been hard, very hard, but he was not crushed yet. Only a little stunned, and bruised, and badly hurt. After coming back from his western journey, convinced that further search s . .;   in'that direction was useless, Ander- son had proceeded immediately to his lawyer for advice. Between them, they had decided to advertise in the New York, Boston, Baltimore an{ New Orleans papers, thinking it pos- sible that some one of them might reach Ella and call forth an answer that might give a clue to her where- abouts. A notice was accordingly sent out, worded as follows: A"If Miss E. H. A., who has until recently resided in --  city, will send her address to Beach & Essex, bankers,.New York, she will be fur- nished regularly with enough money to supply her needs; and no attempt will be made to induce 'her to return home against her wishes." They had thought best that the New York firm should be designated, as the notice would attract less atten- tion from people who knew Anderson, and also because Ella would be more likely to answer it if she believed it would not bring her face to face with her guardian. The young man deter- mined that she should never come to want if he could help it, whether she was to return or not. He could not bear that she should be, brought to suffering in any case, after the years of luxury she had passed under his roof. "You say you have no possible clue to trace this 'dark gentleman,"' said Mr. Jenkins, when they were discuss- ing the matter. "No,  said Anderson, bitterly. ] "Curse his black face! And I saw  him lying on a bed drugged with ether,  too, and the surgeons trying to put his ugly leg in shape. I wish I had been i one of them. I'd have twisted it off  and burned it in a furnace. The devil  take his leg and him!  "At Homer's Station," said the    - lawyer, musing. "You might have s put a detective after him then, and , found for certain whether he knew  where Miss Ella was, or had only - pretended so to the depot master's - girl. You ought to have done that, Mr. Anderson." "Ought to have done it!" cried the - young man, savagely. "I ought to have wrung his neck, if it comes to that, or cut his throat before them all, before he does more harm.  Who could have induced Ella ,to leave me but him or his accomplices? But make the will as I have said. Better risk lIis getting it, than her suffer- ing. [Meanwhile we will try to make the mystery clearer, and if I do find it has come to the worst, - I will not promise what I may do to him." "Had the young mistress no, lady friends?" asked the lawyer. "None. That is -only one, a very fine appearing lady who called but a few times. But why do you ask?" "I will show you presently," said the lawyer. "Has this friend called since 'this unfortunate affair took place?" "Why, no, she has not. But you surely do not imagine-" "In a moment.  Do- you know her residence?" "Certainly. It is the brown house at the upper end of the city, that was deserted for so many years." "Ah, I know. Now, not to leave a stone uhturned, we must call on this lady, and get what information she possesses about Miss Ella. Shall we go now?" "At once!" cried Anderson, catch- ing at this straw with all his ardor returning. Half an hour later they drove up to the Mysterious House. There was an air of greater mystery that ever about it now, and not a sign of   life upon the premises. - The two men examined the house on every side, but were met only by shutters and locks. There was clearly not one living thing within the estate. They were leaving the place, when a man met them at the gates, and asked what they desired. On being informed that thay wished to see the lady of the house, he said the family had moved he knew not where, some time before. In proof of his state- ments he took out a bunch of keys and let them into the house,. They went with him all over the interior, treading. the costly carpets, seeing their reflected forms in the foreign mirrors, and finding everywhere the marks of prodigal luxuriousness. The home had evidently been left without an article being. removed, and also, it seemed, at short notice. The stables held the horses and carriages of the missing family, and the man showed him a letter directing him to take charge of the place until further orders. No name was signed to this letter, and he could only say that he had known the occupants of the mysteri- rions house since they had taken the place, being a near neighbor, and was promised full pay for his trouble. And that was all he knew about the matter. "Can you describe the gentleman of the house, my good man?" asked Mr. Jenkins. "Well, yes, sir, in a general way, I can. He was rather above the medi- um height, and would have been good looking but for his very swarthy com- plexion. So much was this noticed, in fact, that among the people here, he was known, in want of any other name, as 'The dark gentleman."' Anderson cried out suddenly. "A   dark gentleman,- did you say? With black curling hair?" "Yes, sir."  "It is he," said the young- man, moodily, turning to the lawyer. "The man I met on the train. There was a pair of them, then, and they were partners; curse him! And her! I wish I had them here." The lawyer sighed. "There is one more chance," said he. "We will go to the banks and -see whether they remember him." Three banks did not remember him, and the fourth teller had answered likewise, when a messenger boy came forward, and informed his superior- that a gentleman answering that description had been there to draw his money several weeks previous. Thus reminded, the teller turned to his books, while' Anderson excitedly slipped a gold piece into the boy's hand. The date was found, and the name given. "Mr. Fred Hawley, gentleman, drew out $I,ooo this day, being the whole of his deposits." "Mr. Fred Hawley," repeated An- derson, between his teeth. The lawyer noted the name care- fully and wrote it in his book. "You had better put it down, Mr. Anderson," said he. "You may forget it if you do not." The young man laughed derisively, with an ugly look; "When I forget that name," he said, "I shall be past all need of it or anything else." After a little further conversation, they left the bank, and drove to Homer's Station. With feelings most difficult to master, Anderson stepped into the little hotel again, and saw the stairs up which they had carried that   form which had crawled so far by the railroad track before it reached a fel- low-creature. He had a well-formed wish in his heart that moment, that the iron wheels of the engine had. crushed it to a shapeless mass, and flung it to the crows and unclean beasts, ere it had been taken up and brought among men. The hotel keeper told them all he knew about the gentleman that had been brought there with a broken leg. He had remained but two days, and would have left even sooner, had his surgeon permitted him. He was taken away in a carriage brought for the purpose; and that was the last he had heard of him. So, his last hope being gone, except the sole one of the advertisement, and as nothing could be done further, Albert Anderson came home to his house, and brooded day after day, in his chamber. He went once to the tower room for a few necessary 'articles and carried them himself down the stairs. He took the great painting" that showed what had been when he and her were happiest, and brought that down also. Then he turned the key in the door, and carried it away with him. "If she ever comes back," he said in his heart, with an inward sob of pain, "I will show her the dear, old room again, as it was on that dreadful night when she kissed, me, and went out into the world alone." One day, while rocking silently as was his wont, and thinking - as he always did - of his ward, there came a little, timid tap at the door, and he called out to enter. It was a female form that opened the door, and a veil was thrown up that showed a face he had known well. When the face saw his face-so white and worn and sorrowful, a flood of tears came over t  A,   it, and the woman ran up to him and threw her arms around his neck. "Why, Mrs. Haynes! Is it indeed you?" "Yes, Mr. Anderson, it is. I did not know how you would receive me, but I felt I must come. I only heard of your trouble last week, in another State, and I came on with all haste possible, " sobbed Mrs. Haynes. "I am really glad to see you," said Albert, but in such a voice that she was almost frightened. "I should have sent for you had i known your address." "Oh! would you really?" cried Mrs. Haynes, delighted. "Well, I shall not leave you again, after that! You will let me stay all the time, now?" "I shall be thankful," said the young mar, in reply, " if you can over- look the past, to have you resume your former position in my household. Matters have gone ill about the place since you left us." Mrs. Haynes kissed him again, and then blushed for having done it. "You are a dear good man, Mr. Anderson," cried she, "and I will stay as you desire." Then remembering Ella, she burst into crying afresh. "Oh!  My  poor girl, Albert. Have you any news of her?" "None. " He told her this with a choking in his throat, and then waited. "And you have given her upt en- tirely? You cannot forgive her for what she has done?" He raised his head and eyed her reprovingly. , "One who can say that has no con- ception of my character," said he. "When I adopted Miss Ella, I con- sidered well what I was doing. I made suitable provision for her, and it is hers still. Mr. Jenkins and   yourself were witnesses to it, and you will see my wishes carried out as there expressed." "See your wishes carried out, Mr. Andersoln The provisions of your will? You do not speak of dying, surely?" "Dying? ha! ha!" The choking in his throat was gone as he uttered this cry. He seemed roused from his lethargy by the word "Dying?" "No! No! Mrs. Haynes, that it too silly! What! Die because my hopes have been dashed to the ground! I should, have to die often at that rate," he added bitterly. Mrs. Haynes heard him pityingly. "I see I did not understand you," she explained., "And yet you looked so pale and ill I was a little frightened to hear you speak so. You will not lose heart then on account of your last misfortune?" Albert Anderson raised himself in his chair, and threw back his proud head in majesty. Mrs. Haynes had never seen such an expression of con- scious power to overcome, as beamed in his face that instant. "No, " he cried, "I will not. No. real man ever lost heart for a woman's sake, even though she 'was truest of the true. And I? I lived before I met her, and I shall live after she has gone from me. She came to my roof of her own choice; she has gone in like manner. I never compelled her to come; neither shall I insist upon her returning after she has chosen to leave me. It has been a shock, I freely admit, but I can bear it, and shall live it down. I thank you, Mrs. Haynes, for having roused me to a sense of my duty.. I have been dream- ing too long, and now I am well awake, I will go away where new scenes shall fill my mind, and when I   return, it will be with a heart less, heavy than I must confess I now carry." Laura Haynes was never so proud of the. young man as at that moment' She had always held the belief that he had not a peer in the whole world, but now, as she 'saw the will which came to the surface when its power was questioned, she was filled with the deepest admiration. She took him by she hand, and said she was very glad to hear him speak so hope- fully. It was clearly the best thing for him to do,--to go away for a time, and the less delay the better. When the worthy Doctors of Medi- cine came in the next day, with muffled tread and glum,faces the young man was found at his desk, writing business letters and examining accounts. When asked in surprise what he had done with his easy-chair, he said he had kicked it out of the room. Apparent- ly fearful lest in his altered state they might be treated in a similar manner, the worthy gentlemen beat a hasty re- treat4 Their pills and potions shared the fate of the sick-chair. Anderson rode out daily; first in his carriage, and later in the saddle. He'began to get better rapidly. And those who loved him rejoiced to see the roses coming again upon his cheek, and then sighed to think of Her who had gone away, and could not see them! CHAPTER II. A MELTING ICEBERG. A month of good exercise and ener- gy wrought wonders upon the health of Anderson. He began to feel his old interest in business matters, and surprised his friends by the sudden improvement in his looks and manner.   The physicians sent in their long bills by their boys, and were paid their sev- eral amounts, with a brief note stating the writer's surprise at the fact of his own recovery after learning to what extent he had been doctored. The newsboys doffed their hats again as they met the young man in the street, and the letter-carrier pocketed his fees with unusual politeness. The clergy- men whose minds had been so greatly exercised about their duty in respect to his funeral, gave utterance to the belief that he was a hardened wretch, anyway, and no good would come of him. His time and money were, to be sure, always at the service of the needy; he forgave the quarter's rent of many a poor family, and had put more than one outcast upon his feet, when others passed him by.  But what was this? He never gave any- thing to their church, never showed any reverence for their doctrines, and theyfeared he would live and die an unregenerate man. Poor Anderson! There was business to be done, and Anderson went about it with nearly his old spirit. There were houses that needed repairs, bills that wanted his approval, land that had lain idle long enough and must be built upon; lum- ber, brick, stone, iron; carpenters, masons and laborers; all to be seen to as the. spring advanced. His quick business faculties, so long blunted by' unuse, were revived, andhe saw clear- ly each move, and made it in a deter- mined manner. Thus keeping his mind busy with planning and executing the young man did the best thing for himself in every sense. Mr. Jenkins marvelled anew at the spirit .of his client, and spent much of his own time with him arranging his affairs. So that, in the course of a few months, the lawyer was made to understand   every portion of the complicated busi- ness that had extended itself in three years into so many speculations and experiments. He was given full pow- er to act for Anderson in his absence, and the whole matter was then placed unreservedly in his hands. "I am trusting you," said Albert, one day, "as I have often resolved never to trust any one again. But what can I do? I cannot go through life without trusting some one, and I have selected this time a man universally believed to be upright, upon whose head the gray has begun to show itself. Well, Mr. Jenkins, if you prove false, I have, at least, one recourse left. There is a little broken-down log-cab- in where I was born, standing yet in Texas; I can go there again and find a shelter, if in no other place." Tears came into the good lawyer's eyes. "You may never doubt me, Mr. Anderson," he replied. "I would rather lose my right arm than see you defrauded." "I believe you, sir," said Ander- son, pressing his hand. "And when this storm has entirely blown over, and the sky is quite clear again, I may be able to do something for you that shall partially repay you for your faithfulness.- " "When do you intend to go away, sir?" asked the lawyer. ' "Very soon, now. There seems to be nothing further to remain for." 'There is one matter you have chosen not to mention, sir," said Mr. Jenkins. "It might 'be necessary to give me some instructions how to pro- ceed in case-the - lad, came back." Anderson had divined his thoughts before. "Ah!" he exclaimed, "Harry " "Yes, sir." "Little danger of your seeing him,   I guess," said Albert, grimly. "He'll not be likely to return after what has happened. But if he does," and An- derson smiled strangely "you may use him as any other criminal - lock him up and have him tried for incen- diarism. If he is innocent, a jurywill surely find him so. If he is not, he must suffer the penalty of his crime according to our righteous laws." "I will do so, sir," said the lawyer. "Good-by," said Anderson. "Good-by." "Ah, wait a moment. Have you heard anything from the advertise- ment?" "Nothing." "If you should hear, you know, you will spare no pains nor money to bring Ella home again." "I will do all I can." "And if she will not come, at least you will keep track of her, and see that she does not suffer." Anderson bit his trembling lips. "I will, Mr. Anderson." Still he waited. "If I thought you would fail me, I would remain here. But I will trust you." "You may be sure of me, Mr. An- derson." "Good-by, then." "Good-by." They shook hands earnestly at parting, and the young man's eyes met the lawyer's full and square. Then he mounted his horse and rode home. Mrs. Haynes met him at the door. He was paler than she had seen him of late. "No bad news, I hope?" she ques- tioned. "Bad! It's all bad. What could be worse than this uncertainty?"  "Then you think nothing of hope?"   "Hope is set in the skies. I never look in that direction, now." "Oh, Albert! Have faith, that all will come out right. Have faith through everything, as I do." The good woman's tears came to her aid, and she wept. Albert Anderson, like a huge ice- berg, had floated about unmoved by weathers until now. He had been driven before many a gale, but had withstood every shock. He was des- tined to be melted, however, and this was the beginning of the work. He took the housekeeper gently by the hand and led her to a sofa. "My dear Mrs. Haynes," he began, "1 believe your affection for me is sincere. 'Am I right?" "Albert, you are indeed. I have loved both you and Ella, honestly and truly." "I think you have, Mrs. Haynes, and I will tell you openly what I never meant to breathe to a mortal. I can rely upon you can I not?" She pressed his hand in answer. "You remember it all," he proceed- ed, "since that cold December day when I brought her to your door- forsaken, ragged and untaught; when, in the kindness of your heart, you consented to act the part of a mother to her. You remember how I paid her brutal employer to forego all further claims, and took out myself the papers of adoption.' You remember this, do you not?" She pressed his hand again. "You will remember also that I took a great interest in her from that time; that I found leisure from business cares which had weighed heavily upon me, to call often at Giles's Row, to see the little girl, transforming so rapidly into a lovely young woman;   that I was ever anxious she should be provided with everything she could need, and always urged you to spare no expense when her benefit was in question. Is it rot true, what I have been saying?" "It is, Mr. Anderson, every word." "She grew lovelier day after day, and acquired knowledge very fast. The next season she left us for the seminary at Claremont, I believe. Only a child still. Only fifteen years of age, if I remember rightly?" His companion bowed, still press- ing his hand. Anderson proceeded calmly, but his voice trembled a lit- tle. "That year, I think, I went to Texas, and passed the winter. In the spring I travelled over the northwest. In the autumn I came home. One day she came in and surprised me, as I sat in my parlor at Giles's Row. You remember all this, no doubt?" "All of it, Mr. Anderson." "If she had been beautiful when I left her at Claremont, what could express her loveliness now. Her manners greatly changed by her con- tact with gentility, and her temper and disposition unapproachable. She came back into our house like a bright beam from the sun, and won' our hearts before we had time to consider whether we should let them go. If I am not right you will correct me." "You are quite right, Mr. Ander- son. It was indeed so." "Realizing that the house in Giles's Row was not a fit abode for such a jewel, I came here and set artisans and furnishers to work to make a place where she could find only pleas- ure, and have every wish supplied. They did their parts well. She came with us to this house, and I may ask   you, Mrs. Haynes, whether she was not overjoyed at her new home?" The lady bowed in acquiescence. "What came next? I, who cared nothing for women, and had always prided myself on the fact, fell down, ay! on my knees, before this idol I had set up, and worshiped it as a god. She, inexperienced and so young, offered no discouragement. I fell in love, madly in love, as I will show you. I gave over my business affairs to others, and devoted myself wholly to my new study. There was but one thought in my mind, believe me, and that was, her happiness." "I do believe you, Albert. I fiever once thought otherwise." "I thank you for that, Mrs. Haynes. I am making a long story of this, and will hasten. It is like tearing my life out to confess what I must, but it will be done if I die for it." He was choking and stopped to loosen his neckcloth. Mrs. Haynes was breathing hard also, and he paused in fright to see how pale she had suddenly become.  He would have taken her hand again, but she held it from him, and rose with a dreadful look, to leave the room. "Why, Mrs. Haynes!" he exclaimed. "You are ill! My story has been too long for you.' Let me get some water." She lifted a hand to stay him. "I know the rest of your shameful story now," she said, hoarsely. "I had hoped before, it had not come to that. But go on and finish what you were saying. Confess it all! You have been her ruin, and 'may GOD forgive you!" He was thoroughly alarmed at her terrible calmness. "May he forgive me, indeed, Mrs. c*   Haynes," said Anderson, reverently. "But how this has affected you!" "Cannot you guess why?" replied the woman quickly, trembling like an aspen. "I will tell you. It has been a secret in my own breast too many years already. Look at me, Mr. An- derson, andbelieve it is GOD'S truth when I tell you Ella was -ny own child " With a cry that rung in her ears for many months, Albert Anderson ran from the room. Whither he neither knew nor cared. Away, anywhere beyond the sight of that dreadful figure accusing him of her child's ruin I A vessel was to sail at nine. It must be nearly that now. He ran to the wharves, and -went aboard. He wrote a note to Mr. Jenkins saying simply that he had gone on his jour- ney, and would be back in the summer, probably. The anchor was weighed, the sails were run up the sheets, a fresh wind sped him away upon the ocean's track.. The sea- birds fluttered by in the darkness, the city's lights faded away, and the waters of the bay leaped about the vessel's side. But through all and over all, there was before him a pitiable figure, pointing kIm out and saying "He had been the ruin of her child, and might Gop forgive him!" CHAPTER III. A CHAPTER OF CONSEQUENCES. It was indeed a hard lesson young Albert Anderson was learning. Speeding out of the bay that night, with Mrs. Haynes's accusation ever before him, he passed hours that seemed like years, so fearfully was his mind distracted. It was daylight before he sought his berth, and later   yet ere sleep came. In that struggle with himself he came to see many things more clearly, and before his eyes closed he was satisfied that he had been wrong in his views in more than one case. This was a great con- cession for him to make, and it cost him an effort; but he made it. His months of mental suffering had not been with out avail. The Iceberg was melting away by degrees. Melt- ing slowly, to be sure, but-melting away. Toward evening on the second day, for he had somehow feared the light, he came from his state-room, and re- sumed his position upon the deck. The vessel dashed bravely forward under the impetus given by her huge clanking machinery, and a score or more of the passengers were out en- joying the beauties of the blue scen- ery and the bracing air. Anderson sat apart from the others, his arms upon the railing and his head resting upon his arms, thinking earnestly of what had been, and speculating over the probable results that were to come. Where was this to end? Was he to be hunted down by the fates for his crime, for such he now, felt it to be? Was he to expiate his wrong with his life at last? It seemed .as though a shadow of what was to come ,rose before him out of the dancing waves! The white caps rose and fell tauntingly as the vessel sped by them, telling each other who he was and what he had done. And, sometimes, scowling and dashing up their spray, into his face savagely; as if moved to indignation they could not suppress to think that he,-he- whom they des- pised- should be riding in safety over their heads. A young man, walking about the deck, espied the solitary figure sitting   there so lonely, and being himself a stranger to the people on board the vessel, .concluded to make his ac- quaintance. -Being of an easy dispo- sition, he made no ceremony about an introduction, but simply presented himself with the remark- "It's a pleasant evening, my friend." 'Anderson glanced up at the intru- der, and waited for him to proceed. "I remarked that it was a pleasant evening." "Ah yes. I. did not think of it before." "You must have been very busy with your thoughts." "I was; very busy." -"Perhaps I have disturbed you," said the other, apologetically. "You will excuse me if I have. I am a stranger upon the ship and as you seemed the same, I'ventured to accost you. The young man .was retiring politely. "You are a stranger upon the ship?" said Anderson, "Stay then, I beg you. I am also a stranger upon the ship." The new-comer reconsidered his intention and drew a chair to his com- panion's side. "Were you studyingthe waves?" he asked presently. Anderson replied in the affirmative. "It is a great study,. my friend," said the new-comer. '"One that has no end of knowledge in it. I love to study them, myself, sometimes, but not as they are now. Give me the wild, roaring storm for my lesson. Ah! It is admirable, magnificent then!" Anderson began to be interested. "Before we proceed farther," said he, "we had ought to be better 5   acquainted. Here is my card. Please favor me with your own." Anderson took his companion's. card, reading the plain words, "F. L. Smith," and Mr. Smith glanced by the reflected moonlight at the card he had taken. "Indeed " he exclaimed, as he noted the name. "Have I the pleas- ure of meeting Mr. Anderson!  I should have known you, sir, by your appearance, had the thought once entered my head you could possibly be here. Your works are placed among my most cherished books, and I have long desired to meet their author." Anderson smiled. "Well," said he, "as you 'know my profession, now pray inform me of your own. We may meet again ashore." "My profession? I am a lawyer. politician, and independent gentleman of leisure combined," said Mhr. Smith, laughing. "As well as a sort of phil- osopher and looker into human na- ture. The latter study is my prefer- ence, however." "And do you find much human na- ture in the waves?" asked Anderson lightly. A O, yes. Plenty -of it, I assure you. Anger and hatred and scorn and fury in the storms. Peace and, quiet, and love and rest, in the calm.. There is plenty of human nature to be; studied on the sea, if we only appre- ciate its varying moods. A great study, Mr. Anderson, a great study." Anderson became graver.  "Do. you find anything there that speaks of false friends, and of trifling with the deepest feelings of the heart?" he asked. "Yes, I think I do," was the sober reply. "The waves are often called.   treacherous, and he who lies down to sleep in the most perfect calm, may awake with the waters sweeping over him." "You are indeed a philosopher?" cried Anderson, grasping his hand. I am proud to hear you say so," replied Mr. Smith. "But I could not presume to teach you in these matters, for almost at your feet I have learned many, of them. Your writings have often met with echoes in my heart that have showed me truth where there was no light before." "You do me too much honor," replied Albert. "I can yet learn much from  others, and am trying every day to unravel new mysteries. I am but twenty-five years of age yet-a very young man, you see-- and what I have written can be of little consequence. 'I thank you the same, though, for your kind words." "Speaking of the sea," resumed Mr. Smith, in a moment, "did you ever give thought to its dangers, and the number of men lying in its depths? Think of our situation at this minute, with only a plank between. us and death. There is another illustration of the parallel we were speaking of." "Yes, I have often thought of it," replied Anderson; "but never with feelings of fear. I cannot imagine a man in his right mind who has a fear of death, when he knows it must come to all. It is natural, to be sure, for us to cling to life while there is hope remaining in our breasts. But there is something, Mr. Smith, that is *better than Life." The speaker paused and fixed his ,eyes upon his companion. "A life," resumed Anderson, "is ,nothing, compared with a principle. If the death of a man establishes a :principle, it cannot be counted a loss.   There was a Man who lived once in Judea, whose whole life -was spent in inculcating great principles into his disciples. His death established those principles, so they shall endure forever. We have called him the Master. For earth never saw his like." There was a pause for a moment, and then Anderson resumed. "I have read of a captain or some other officer who, when his vessel was sinking, called his men upon deck and ordered them to present arns. Then quietly, in true military style, they sank together. What were their deaths compared to the glory of that deed! It was worth a thousand deaths to give the great principle to mankind that death had no terrors to that noble company!" Mr. Smith looked at his companion with admiration. "Think you," he asked, "that you would meet your death, as they did, were it to come upon you in a like violent manner?" "I would, indeed!" cried Ander- son, throwing back his head, around which the breeze was blowing his long, brown hair. "It is no vain boast, I assure you, sir, when I say I would meet my death as a true mah should, face to face, promptly and willingly, without a sign of fear. This is the result of long thought and study. My rule would be, 'Whatever must be, should be met firmly.' If I am ever brought to the test, I will show that I have not. spoken vainly." Anderson's eyes sparkled with his excitement, and as he raised his arm to emphasize his words, his face glowed under the mnoon's light until he seemed half transfigured. The soul was speaking through the man, and lent its own beauty to his face. His companion saw he was in deep   earnest, and felt his bosom stirred by contact with this wonderful nature. "Since you care so little for life," ventured Mr. Smith, presently, "I would be pleased to hear your opinion of the Death Penalty." "You shall have it, sir. I regard capital punishment in times of peace as one of the greatest blots upon the history of the world. In war, when' the sternest necessity has forced it upon a people, the taking of a life to save a thousand, may be justified. But never during a tranquil peace can the law be right in dragging forth mis- guided men to death upon the scaffold. The influence is wrong, the deed is wrong, and the principle is wrong. If I write another book this curse shall find condemnation in its pages." "Do you lay the death of a hanged man upon the officers of the law?" "No. It comes further back than them, upon the system which gives them their power. It comes upon the people, who in their blindness allow such laws upon their statute books." "If you were in authority," asked Mr. Smith, "and the power of com- muting the death sentence of a man lay in your hands, would you carry out the law, or favor the side of mercy?" "It would be a hard case for me to decide," replied Anderson after a mo- ment's thought. "I believe fully in justice being done to the transgressor of our laws, and should in all possible cases favor a full punishment for crime. But I hardly think I could sign the death warrant of a fellow being. It would seem;as if his blood was on my head." "But society must be protected," urged Mr. Smith, apparently dissent- ing from his companion's views. "Not by punishing one crime with another and a worse one," said Ander-   son. "However, this subject is a deep one and has many sides' to it. My opinion remains the same as ever, and it will be useless for us to argue further. You have my views in brief, and if I live a year more, you may find them in full upon paper. For the present, if you please, we will drop the discussion. The two men continued their con- versation for some time upon other subjects, and parted for the night with friendly words and grasps of the hand. Mr. Smith was much impressed with his companion's theories, and was highly pleased at the chance which had brought them together. Anderson was always willing to speak with one interested in the questions he himself studied, and had enjoyed his friend's company very much. Early in the morning the-vessel reached her destin- ation and Anderson bid his friend a final farewell as they took trains bound inopposite directions. "We may meet again, remember," said Mr. Smith. "And if I can serve you in any way you may be sure I shall do so." "Thank you," replied Albert. "Do not forget what \we were speaking of last evening, and if I am ever put to the test recall the words I told you then." When the young man had rushed so confusedly from the presence of the housekeeper, he had had no idea where he should go. He had taken passage on the vessel because itwould bear him away from the woman he had. wronged, the quickest. As the sea-breezes cooled his hot brain, he had time to consider and decide upon his best course, and had concluded to take the railroad at the first port and proceed to Texas. There were sever- al months to be passed before he in-   tended to return home, and this plan was as good as any. He wrote letters to his lawyer informing him of his ad- dress, and to Mrs: Haynes expressing, his deep sorrow at the estrangement between them, and hoping it would be only temporary. He told her no effort must be spared in finding Ella, now, and that she should be given up to her mother as soon as any trace could be obtained of her. He said neither Mrs. Haynes nor her daughter should ever want for anything he could procure, and in every possible way expressed his desire to, atone for his sin. It was such a letter as the good woman would never have believed him capable of writing - it was so peni- tent and sad. The Iceberg was melt- ing faster than ever. Anderson reached Catherine town in a fortnight more, having'to travel part of the way on horseback, and this change of scene wrought improvement in his looks. He rode much, and tried to keep his thoughts from the object which was always rising before them. He partially succeeded in this, and became nearly his, old self by the time he had settled upon to return North.  And one day  in July, with the sun's hottest beams falling upon his head, he mounted his horse again and left Catherine behind him. He came home by the same route as he had left, and came riding into the lower bay of the harbor about two o'clock one morning. By his request he had been called at one o'clock by the steward, for he intended to go, im- mediately upon the vessel's landing, to Mr. Jenkins's house, and see whether there was any news of Ella. For some reason unexplainable to him, he had thought more than usual about the girl for the past two days,   and felt sure she must be near him. As the vessel came nearer and nearer to the city, he became more and more excited, and had passed a nearly Sleep- less night. At the steward's call he hurried on deck, and looked about the sea.  The noble ship was plowing her way bravely through the waters, and the machinery clanked heavily as the great wheels were turned round and round. In the distance could be seen beams from the lighthouses and ships, the latter standing both in and out of the harbor. The city's lights were just visible ahead, and his heart leap- ed as he thought he would soon tread her streets again. Ella must be near - he felt it as though some supernat- ural agency had whispered it to him. He sat down by the railing and thought of Her. The smouldering fires of love were blown into flames again by the breezes which were waft- ing him to her side. He knew he loved her and without her, - ay! theorist though he might be--life was a blank that was but worthless to him! What was it that brought the old choking into his throat? That made him gasp for breath 'as he had done when he found her bed empty, and realized that she had gone from him, perhaps forever!. He saw her lying once more in a bed, but so pale and sick his heart was moved 'to the deep- est colmpassion. The form was there before him as plainly as if it was a reality, and he half suspected he was dreaming. But no! He was wide awake there on the vessel's side. The form vanished from view as it had come, fading out of sight into the sea! And he heard in its place a stifled wail, and those words which, had im-   pressed him so strongly before, when the deed was signed in the lawyer's office: "Her heirs forever- her heirs forever." It must remain a mystery to, all men how these visions arise, but they do come. Albert Anderson heard as plainly as he could have heard those words repeated in his ear: "Her and her heirs forever - her heirs forever!" A hand touched him on the 'shoul- der, He started, to see a well-known face looking into his. It was that of the quadroon formerly in his employ. "Hush!" said the boy in a low tone, as Anderson was about to speak. "Your life is in danger, and I have come to save you." "My life in danger, Sam? How? !"I do not know it all," said the boy, " but there are certainly officers waiting at the docks to arrest you. It is a serious matter, Mr. Anderson, and you must come with me." "Where?" asked the young man, almost stupefied by the rush of strange incidents which had come upon him. "To St. George's. We are near there, and my boat is moored along- side. I rowed down to meet you. Come! we must not lose a moment. Where is your stateroom?" Hardly knowing what he did, An- derson pointed out the room. Sam seized the baggage instantly, and called to his master to follow. The deck was clear of people, and they reached: the boat unobserved. Into this they stepped, and the fastening was cut off. In a minute more, the qdadroon was pulling with all his might upon the oars, and the boat dashed forward at a good rate of speed toward St. George's Island.   "What were they to arrest me for?" asked Anderson, as soon as he could collect his scattered thoughts. "I do not like to tell you now, sir. Wait till we are ashore." "Tell me, I command you, this instant!" "Well, sir, if you must know, it was - MURDER!" CHAPTER IV. A NEW LIFE FOR ELLA. The town of Walden nestled in a valley formed by slopes of the Alle- ghanies one January morning.  It was a little town and the people in it were mostly ,poor in this, world's goods, and strict in their opinions upon morality and religion. -The great house of the rich man of the place could be seen upon the rising ground to the eastward, contrasting strongly with the unpretentious cot- tages at the base. The rich man was a large land proprietor and owned at least a quarter of the property in town. His name was Henry Walden, Esq., and his family consisted of two daughters of fourteen and sixteen, and one son twenty-two years of age. The son -as known as Mr. Walden, Jr., and was a young gentleman of upright character, handsome, and kind to all. He was a graduate of a law and scientific school in the State, and claimed the title of LL D. There were essential points of differ- ence in the characters of Mr. Walden, Sen, and Mr. Walden, Jr. For in- stance, the former was bigoted and austere; the latter unprejudiced and frank. The former a believer in the most rigid school of religion, the latter inclining to the liberal faith. The former, in short, holding to the   doctrine of ".an eye for an eye" and the latter believing in the sublime in. junction, "Whatsoever ye would that men should do unto you, do ye even so to them." The good people of Walden were divided in their opinions between the faiths of the father and son, though the majority were strongly in favor of the views held by the elder gentle- man.  The worthy pastor of this flock was often known to hurl his denunciations at Liberalism upon the devoted head of Walden, Jr., of a Sabbath, while pretending to address the rest of the congregation. On such' occasions, Mr. Walden, Sen., would assume an expression of Chris- tian resignation that was truly affect- ing, and called forth mute glances of sympathy from the villagers who sat near him; while Mr. Walden, Jr., seemed as little impressed by the affair as though he had been made of stone, and generally fixed his hand- some eyes as steadily upon the minis- ter as though they, too, were chiseled out of rock. People then said that young Mr. Walden was coming to some evil end, as all would who per- sisted in holding such erroneous views as he did. Not a word could be said against his morals or his good inten- tions. But he was certainly wrong in persisting to believe in these new- fangled notions against his father's wishes. In this village, as in hundreds of others of like size, the daily stage- coach was looked upon as one of the most important events of the twenty- four hours. And on this morning in January, there was assembled as usual, a motley crowd of men, women and boys, upon the walk near the hotel, as the stage drove up. It was a coach with six horses and a ruddy faced   driver. The latter personage an- nounced his coming while yet some way down the road, by sounding a tin horn, and on arriving at the hotel sprang from his box to open the stage- door with great alacrity. The people who were in the habit of visiting Walden by the stage were principally merchants and business men, with a few persons who came in from the back districts for the purpose of trading at the village stores. The expectant crowd, therefore, looked for such a company to alight, when the driver hastened to open the door. But they were disappointed, for the official, after commanding in a stern voice, that the boys should cease crowding, handed out with the great- est delicacy a young woman of petite figure and modest appearance, with a few loose curls escaping,from her net, and a face that was hidden by a blue vail. This was so different from what the crowd had expected that they drew back without further orders, and contented themselves with staring hard at the new-comer as she was shown into the hotel, and passing various wondering remarks upon her probable business in Walden. Just as the young woman alighted, a young man, on some errand to the hotel, walked tip the steps, and as he did so his eyes fell upon her.. He was interested immediately, and ob- served her carefully for a few moments. She walked to the office-counter and in a trembling voice asked for a room. On being requested to register her name, she took the pen offered her, and in a delicate little hand wrote the words, after some hesitation, "Ella Hastings."' Mr. Walden, Jr. for it was he - looked earnestly at the girl's face as she put up her vail to see the page   better. - As she finished, she inadver- tantly looked up at him; and then, finding that he was regarding her so closely, she blushed, dropped her vail and turned awav. The landlord's daughter came out to show her to her room, and sle fol- lowed immediately, seeming very glad to escape the presence of so many strange gentlemen. Walden, Jr., glanced at the register, read the name, drew a long breath and left the house. On leaving Ella at her room, the landlord's daughter, Carrie Hudson, asked her how long she should remain, and Ella answered perhaps a long time, she could not tell. The girl then went away, and Ella was left alone. She turned the key in the door, and slowly removed her travel- ing wrappings.  Alone  indeed! Among strangers with no one to trust with her great secret. She resolved never to reveal her identity, whatever came, and then, tired out, she sat down on the bed and cried. Poor girl! she was satisfied she had done right in leaving Anderson, 'but how bitter was the cup she was called upon to taste! What a sacrifice she had made in leaving him whom she loved above all else, to come here where none knew or cared for her. No wonder the hot tears came as she thought. She was so young and in- experienced, and the trial was very hard. After a time her grief became con- trollable, and she began to reason with herself. This would never do. She had her own way to mark out hereafter Ind must not waste her time in idle tears. She resolved to be brave. Rising, she bathed the sad face, and tried to smile, but it was a very unsuccessful attempt. The poor face looked woe-begone enough. She   left the glass, and sitting down again, tried to collect her thoughts. She had come a long way, and Al- bert could never find her here. Of that she was almost sure. She had some money that would support her for a while.\ How much? She took the purse from her pocket, and told out the bank notes, the gold and sil- ver pieces, upon her lap. This had been His money,; and she almost felt like a guilty thing as she saw it lying there in her possession. How much was there? One, two, three, four, five; eight hundred dollars. How' often had he spent more money for some article of jewelry she fancied! There were bracelets on her arms, now, and a chain on her neck, and a pin on her bosom, and a watch in her belt, that had cost more than double, treble this sum. He had never'asked the price of anything she wanted. "Dear, loving Bert. Have I not done wrong in taking this when I left you? It was all mine, surely, but you never thought I would leave you when you gave it. Well, there is no help now. I can spend it for his child by-and-by. Perhaps that will be some atonement. Heaven knovrs I would do no wrong to you, my dearest love." The tears were coming again, but she stayed them by a strong effort. She took off the jewelry sle wore and put it away in the bottom of a trunk. It might raise questions were she to appear in the village with such costly ornaments. She donned a plain black dress and a common linen collar, and fastened her hair with the net she wore while travelling. Thus dressed, she looked as unpretending as could be, and felt a gleam of satis- faction as she glanced in the glass once more. "I don't think even Bert would ,   recognize me in this plain dress, "she said, smiling sadly. "There, stay in there, you curls, and don't spoil the effect. How he used to love you, and pass you through his hands! But those days are over; and must be thought of no more." A knock at the door recalled her to herself, and she opened it to admit the landlord's daughter. "Dinner is ready, if you please, Miss, " said the girl, staring in a sur- prised manner, as she noted the change in Ella's dress. "You see I have donned a plainer garment," said Ella, noticeing her manner, and divining her thoughts. ".It will do just as well, I think, while I stay in your village; and I prefer to wear it here." "It is a black dress," said Carrie curiously.- "Are you in mourning, Miss?" "I am not in mourning," replied Ella. "But I have lost a very dear friend, lately, and prefer to .dress in a quiet shade." "A friend?" the inquisitive girl asked. "A gentleman or lady friend?" "It was" -said Ella, biting her lips, "It was - a - gentleman friend." "Your lover, perhaps?" Ella felt disposed to give a sharp reply to the girl, for continuing her inquiries so long, but seeing she spoke from sympathy, she answered, "Perhaps." "Did you live far from here, Miss?" "A long way." "Do you come from the North?" "No; from. the South." "You do not look as if you were used to labor, " continued the girl kindly, looking at E!la's hands. "I am not." "Have you come to Walden to stay long?"   "I do not know," replied Ella sad- ly. "Are you -  are you very poor, Miss?" asked Carrie. "I shall be obliged to make my own living." "You have met with misfortune, then?"  "I have, "replied Ella, wiping her wet eyes. "Can I do anything for you?" asked the kind-hearted girl, seeing Ella's eyes begin to fill with tears again. "Perhaps so, my good girl. You are very kind to feel so much interest in my affairs, " said Ella. "If I might be of service here in the house for a while, I should niuch prefer it to anything else. If. I might, for in- stance, help you and your mother- you have a mother, have you not?" The girl assented. "Thank Gon that you have I " said Ella, earnestly. "If I could help you," she continued, "so as to par- tially pay for my support, I have some money and should get along very well. I cannot bear the thought of going into a shop among strangers." Carrie readily promised to see what could be done, and at Ella's earnest request, she was given a seat at din- ner at the family table, away from the public dining hall. The landlord and his wife 'were both very favorably im- pressed with their new guest, and it was settled that there was to be nothing said about her board for the present, at least. In the meantime she might assist as she chose in the lighter duties of the hotel. So! The hands that but a month ago ran, sparkling with jewels, over the ivory keys' of the piano, and did no heavier labor than to ring for ser- vants who came to supply every wish;   the hands that He had pressed within his own, many and many a time, admiring their beauty, and kissing them playfully as she ran up to him as he entered her room; the hands that he would have given worlds, now, to find clasped about his neck; were to be employed after this in ordinary household work. And the feet that had stepped so long on the softest carpets, were, to run up and down stairs until they were tired, helping to earh her living. In the evening of the first day Ella came to the village, Mr. Walden, Jr., called at the hotel, and stepped inside the'e kitchen door-way, as one who was on easy terms with the family. Carrie was standing at the table ironing, with her sleeves rolled up, and Ella sat near by with some sewing in her lap. The young man quietly addressed Carrie, as he removed his 'hat, and then stood waiting by the door. "Good-evening, Miss Hudson." "'How do you do, Mr. Walden?" said Carrie, handing him a chair. "This is my friend, Miss Hastings. Miss Hastings, Mr. Walden." Rising, Ella bowed to Mr. Walden, without lifting up her eyes, and he took the seat offered him in silence. She had caught a glimpse of the young man as he entered, and recog-1 nized at once the face that had met hers when she stood that morning in 'the office. She knew he had been watching her keenly then, and she did not care to encounter his eyes again. "You are quite a stranger to our house, Mr. Walden," said Carrie. "Somewhat so," replied Mr. Wal- den. "I have been away from the town, more or less, for the past month."   "Travelling on business matters, I suppose?" "Yes." "Which way do you come from now; from the North?"  "No ; from the South." "Indeed I Our friend, Miss Hast- ings, also arrived from the South to-day." Mr. Walden, Jr., looked at Our Friend, Miss Hastings, to mark the effect upon her of Carrie's words. She did not look up, but' bent her attention even closer to her sewing; lie fancied, however, that she was listening carefully, and had an interest in the conversation deeper than she cared to show. "I met with a young gentleman as I was returning home," continued Mr. Walden, after a pause, and never taking his gaze from Ella one moment, "who was in deep distress 'from the loss of a very dear friend. He was enquiring at every station, of the conductors, whether she had been seen in their neighborhoods. He looked careworn and sleepless, and I really pitied him." Ella drew in her breath as he pro- ceeded; and her work dropped unheeded to the floor. But she did not look up. She dared not. "Did he succeed in his search?" asked Carrie, becoming interested. "He had made little progress when I left him. I think he must have become discouraged and gone home, before this time." Ella drew a sigh of relief that was not lost on the narrator. "Was he a handsome young man?" asked Carrie." "A woman's question," said Walden, smiling. "Yes, I believe he was what you call handsome. A tall, straight   form, clear, open face, and beautiful long, brown hair, hanging about his neck. Such a man as I should think any woman, might fall in love with. Yes.' He was handsome without doubt." Ella bowed softly to herself several times, as if in confirmation of his statements. Albert- it must have been him -there was no other such being on earth. So he had not hated her, and left her willingly to perish. Poor, dear Bert! Might Heaven bless him!" "Is that all your story?" said Car- rie, seeing that he paused. "Yes, nearly all. Are you inter- ested in the narrative?" Carrie said yes, and Ella appealed to him to continue, by her silence and close attention. "Well, this young man," continued Walden, "was also from the South, and was evidently rich as well as hand- some. He seemed to have held a deep love for this girl, and I under- stood he had offered large rewards to detectives to find her. He resided in one of the coast cities, where he owns large amounts of property. It seems strange that a woman should leave him and such a home, does it not?" "It does," said Carrie. "There nust have been more of the story than you heard, if that is all." Mr. Walden looked at Ella, who was taking up her neglected work from the floor, where it had fallen, and saw that he had said enough. So he answered, like an echo: "That is all." Carrie took up an armfull of the newly-ironed clothes, and begged to be excused a few moments, while she laid them away up stairs. And Henry Walden, Jr., and Miss Ella Hastings were left .alone together.   Mr. Walden bent forward in his chair and addressed his companion. "You were interested in my story," he observed. Ella started, and trembled like a leaf in the wind; "Yes, sir," she said. "It was a strange account." "True," said Walden, Jr., watching her narrowly. "Why should this young lady have left her lover in that way?  "Why," said Ella, covering her face with her hands, and speaking in a frightened whisper, "why, but that she loved him too much to remain." "Indeed! How could that be?" "Might she not have seen," said Ella, taking her hands from her face, and commencing to wring them in anguish, " that he was giving up his bright future as a rising author to his love for one so unworthy as she was? Might she not have decided in sorrow such as few can know, that her only' course for his best good was to leave him to his books again? Might She not have thrown all selfish considera- tions to the winds, and gone out actu- ated solely by the deepest love for him? O, Mr. Walden, might it pot be so?" "My GOD!" he cried, 'is there such love in woman as this?" "Ay!" she said. "There is no limit to real love. He may never know that this woman gave up every-. thing for his sake, but some day when she hears his fame proclaimed among thegreat, she shall have in it a reward worthy of her sacrifice-! " Miss Hastings," cried Walden, "I honor this woman more than I, can tell you. Should her secret fall in my hands, I swear it shall be safe. Should she come in ry way, I hope I may have the pleasure of giving her as- sistance should she need it. She   should ever find a friend, who would spare no pains to help her in her no- ble resolution." She looked up now and saw his honest, earnest eyes bent upon her. She read there truth, honor and man- liness, and held out her hand for him to take. "Mr. Walden," she stammered, "I have known you but a few moments, and yet I am impelled toi trust you. I have no need of present assistance, but I shall want counsel and advice, which you may be able to give. \I thank you from my heart for yourgen erous offer." "As you will remain here," said Mr. Walden, deeply impressed by her con- fidence, "I shall see you often. You may safely trust me, and I beg you not to make any new move without letting me know of your intentions. I have more experience with the world than you have, and shall be very hap- py to help you in any way." The arrangement was but just con- cluded, when the landlord's daughter returned, and arter a few minutes more of conversation on other topics Mr. Walden withdrew, and the two girls were left together again. "Isn't he a splendid fellow?" said Carrie, the minute the door was shut. "There isn't such a fine young man in the village, I'm sure." "He is a very fine young man in- deed," Ella acknowledged, thinking with the deepest gratitude of his kind words to her. "What! You're not in love with him?" cried Carrie, roguishy. "Hardly," said Ella, smiling. "But I like him very well for all that." "I noticed he watched you pretty closely," said Carrie, determined to have a little more fun out of the affair. "Did he?" said Ella, quietly. "I   was occupied with my sewing and 'did not notice." And Carrie was obliged to drop the subject. Henry Walden, Jr., walking to his home, thought seriously of the revela- tions of the evening. "She is a wonderful woman," he mused, "a wonderful woman. to love in that way. What! I am  not in love with her myself, am I? Oh, no, no, only deeply interested, that's all." CHAPTER V. ANDERSON AN OUTLAW. ST GEORGE'S ISLAND, August 12th.- Mrs. Hzynes: The bearer of this note will inform you of my position. If you still have faith in me, come with him to this place, to- night. Yours Faithfully, JAMES ALBERT ANDERSON. Thus wrote Anderson in' the quad- roon's cabin, gave the note to his faithful attendant, saw him row away toward the city, and then-'waited. Would she come? He was by no means sure she would. She was as likely to desert him in his trouble as others, for all he knew. Those swift visions of last night, supplemented by the boy's fearful answer in the boat, had unsettled his mind to a marked degree. He watched Luna, the dark- faced mistress of the house, as she went singing about her labors. She was the quadroon's wife. They were joined in holy wedlock, and were happy. But was this enough? Was happiness the only. goal that man should strive for? This couple knew nothing of high theories, of deep phi- losophies, of broad conceptions of the Unseen! Happiness - bah! A dog is happy when he has a bone to gnaw.   This could not be all; Albert Ander- son had not sunk so low as this. In waiting and watching by the cottage window, the day passed. Albert ate a few morsels from the dishes tendered him kindly by Luna, but he had no appetite for them. When it grew dark, he would not leave the window, but sat there still, gazing into the blackness, and -waited. As time passed on he began to feel sure she would not come, and said so to the octoroon girl. But she remind- ed him that Sam would not think of starting before it was quite dark, and it was a long pull from the wharves to the Island. Her predictions were fully verified shortly after, for steps were heard approaching, and on the door being opened there entered both the quadroon and Laura Haynes. "My dear boy!" cried the widow, falling impulsively on Albert's neck, the moment she saw him. ." How sick and pale you are looking. Oh, dear! dear! What an amount of trouble we do find in this world. Come, cheer up, pray, .and try to look more hope- ful." "Have I your forgiveness " he whispered. "Oh, yes! yes!" she cried. "I was so sorry you went away as you did. I was very wrong to speak so, and I repented it in a minute after you left." -'I am much relieved to hear you say so," said Albert in 'a low tone. "I am beginning to understand many things of which I have been ignorant. I have now your forgiveness, and I only desire one thing more --that is, hers. But we will say nothing about this, now. There is a more pressing subject to be considered. Sam, my boy, please draw up here, and we will   hear your story first. You said some- thing about a murder, I think." "Yes, sir," said the quadroon,. doing as he was requested. ' I was at one of the wharves yesterday, and overheard a conversation between some gentlemen there. They were talking very earnestly, and the first thing that drew my attention was the mention of your name. Then -I took more notice of them, and saw two men that I did not know, and one that I did. The latter was the well- known detective, Fred Steel." "Can you describe the two other men?" interrupted Anderson, quietly. "One of them was a flashy-looking fellow of middle height, and the other-- "Was a tall, curly-haired, dark gen- tleman!" cried Anderson. "So he' s on my track again." "You are right," said the quadroon. "Do you know him?" "I have seen him," replied Ander- on, grinding his teeth. "Go on." "Well, the first thing I heard the men say was that Anderson had taken passage in the steamer due that even- ing, and as she stopped nowhere on her route, he must come in on her that night. Then I listened, lying down behind some bales near them, and heard this dark gentlemen tell Steel he should be well paid if he put you under lock and key where you would be out of mischief for a while. Steel then took something from his pocket which must have been a warrant, and said your eyes should have a look at that the minute the vessel touched. The other men laughed at this, and one of them said you might prove a tough customer to handle for a sin- gle man. At this Steel took out a pair of hand-cuffs, and spoke about   those being the things for fellows who resisted. The dark gentleman laughed again, and said ydur, white hands would look fine in those bracelets, and then they all went away." The " white hands" worked ner- vously, as the boy continued. "Oh!" cried Anderson, "why didn't I spring on him then and there, and choke him to death while he lay drugged." Mrs. Haynes was terrified at his passion, but she did not speak, and Sam-resumed his story. "I followed the men from the wharf to an office up-town, where they went in together. The name-over the door was ' Richard Tovin, Esq., Counsellor at Law.' This must have been the smallest man of the party. I found a closet at the head of the stairs, and went into it, where I could hear all they said. They commenced to talk about you directly. The first words I heard were Steel's: 'What could have induced Anderson to murder him?" said he. "Him /" cried Anderson, throwing up his hands. ".Him! Then it was not Her that they would accuse me of murdering." "It was for killing Harry, sir; that is what they said." It' is wonderful to think of a man having cause for thankfulness when he hears that he is accused of murder in any shape. But Albert was so overcome to find it was not Ella, as he had supposed, that he felt quite happy for, a moment. "Thank God!" he cried. "I have no fears. now. I never thought of Harry, but I see it all. It was not my darling girl, then, that they would accuse me of murdering. Thank God! Thank God!"He wiped the first tears from his eyes that had been seen   there in years. Mrs. Haynes, who had been crying all the time, burst out anew when she witnessed this un- wonted sight, and there was silence for some minutes. "I could learn nothing of the grounds for the charge," continued the quadroon, after a time, " but was sure you were to be arrested for mur- der when the steamer came in. This I was bound to prevent if I could, and I laid my plans then to row out and bring you off when you were coming into the Bay. After the men had gone out of the office I waited awhile and then went down to .the street. Who should I find standing by the doorway, but that same dark' gentleman!" "Did he know you?" asked Ander- son. "Yes, he knew me at once. 'Upon my soul,' said he, ' here is that boy of his now.' 'What boy?' said I, pre- tending ignorance. 'Aren't you 'An- derson's boy?' said he. 'O, no, not since last winter,' I said. 'Sure enough,' said he, as if remembering, 'I had forgotten that. Well, he won't need any boy long.' 'Vhy, he isn't going to die, is he!' said I, opening my eyes. He laughed, and said that depended on the toughness of his neck. Then I came away, glad to get rid of him, and hurried home as fast as I could." Those " white hands" began to work again, and after a moment's pause, Sam continued: "You know the rest," said he., "I rowed away from lere at midnight, and found you eight miles away, dreaming, on deck. I hurried you off before you could resist, and here we are." , "You shall lose nothing byyour faith- fulness," Anderson replied. "Though I do not know but I would have done   better to have gone in and faced the charge, instead of doing as I have, and appearing guilty by running away from it, I have a little temper of my own, however, and would prefer to give myself up, if necessary, rather than to be handcuffed and dragged to jail like a dog. If that man Steel, or Iron, or Brass, or whatever name it is, had tried that game, I fear there would have been 'two charges  against me instead of one, before I left him." "I knew how it would be," said Sam, smiling, and brought you off to avoid the possibility of such an event happening," "What is to be done now?" asked Mrs. Haynes, nervously.  "What would prevent them coming here to take you, Albert, should they find out where you are?" "Nothing," said he, calmly, "unless I should take a fancy to resist. Then, I cannot answer for the end." "Then you will not let them take you?" she cried in admiration. "I think not," replied Anderson. "But we can tell better when they come. I am sorry for your sake that there is such a danger. If they should come, Luna will go up' stairs with you, and stay till the question is settled below." "Oh, Albert," cried Mrs. Haynes, "you must not run any danger of your life, promise me that. It is for Her sake I ask you. She would die were she to return and find you dead." He was moved. "I will try and think of what you say," he answered. "As a good citi- zen I ought to submit peaceably to the officers of the law, and I will try to do so. But, if they should attempt too much- I have a villainous temper- and should be apt to forget myself.   They have not come yet, though, and we should not anticipate evil." "If they do come," whispered the quadroon, " you will find a boat in that direction" - pointing with his finger - "and can make for it should you desire. There is no disgrace, you know, in running from superior num- bers. But I am quite sure they will not be here to-night, and we might as well go to sleep and rest." A knock at the door gave him the lie, and the women hurried up stairs, while Anderson stepped into the next room. The silence of the next ten seconds was oppressive, when the knocking was repeated. "Who is there?" asked the quad- roon. "Open the door," was the answer, the voice being that of Mr. Fred Steel. "We have retired," said the quad- roon, "and shall not open again to- night. So you might as well go." "You cannot play with me," con- tinued Steel. "You know who I am and what I want. I command you; t therefore, in the name of the law, to give me admittance." Matters were becoming grave. It I was a high crime to refuse admission to an officer after such a summons, , and Anderson did not wish to bring r more trouble on the head of his-de- r voted servant. e  "Come away, tam," he whispered, "I will see the men myself." "You want a gentleman named An- a derson, don't you?" he called to the - men outside. "Well, that is my e name, and I am at your service, pro- ) vided you conduct yourself properly. ) Wait a moment, and I will admit you." - He had his hand on the door-bolt to  draw it back, when a scream from   above stayed him.  "Ah!" he exclaimed. "Is that their game?" Followed by the quadroon, he ran up stairs, and took in the situation there 4t a glance. While Steel had been parleying at the lower door, those valiant gentlemen, his compan- ions, being no less then the dark gen- tleman and a friend of his connected with the, law, Mr. Dick Tovin, had placed a ladder, and entered the upper story. It was their sudden ad- vent that had called forth the scream referred to. The appearance of Anderson's head above the stairway was the signal for Dick Tovin to make an ig- nominious and hasty retreat down the ladder from which he was- just alight- ing. The dark gentleman, however, in his exultation at having, as he thought, got Anderson now safely in hand, and being under the partial in- fluence of several glasses of cham- paigne, had evidently misunderstood -the situation entirely. For his first act on getting inside the window was to seize the arm of the pretty octoroon, and commence to cover her face with kisses, to her intense disgust; Mrs. Haynes looking on in the meantime with an expression of horror, and both ladies giving utterance to scream after scream with surprising volubil ity. In the height of passion, some men seem to be endowed with the strength of a dozen ordinary persons. Ander- son was one of these. With a bound he was at Hawley's side, and in an instant he had him spinning across the room as though a hurricane had struck him. The dark gentleman would have made a struggle had he been given time, but he had none. Catching him up as though' he had o,   been an infant, Anderson walked to the open window, and without a thought of the distance from the ground, tossed him out like a piece of wood. All this occupied less than a minute, but before he had time to take' breath, a new foe was upon hin. Steel had been informed by Tovin of the turn affairs were taking, and came spring- ing up the ladder. Anderson had no wish to show further fight, and he only cried "Good-by!" rushed down stairs, out of the house, and ran for the boat. Steel was an active man, and as brave as a lion. He was accounted the best officer on the force, and had been detailed for this duty on that very account. He never had a partner in a case, preferring to reap his honors alone, and had refused proffered as- sistance from his brothers that even- ing. He .comprehended that his man had determined on flight, and started after him at full speed. Als Anderson left the house, the Detective was but a few rods behind him, and the race was closely contested from that time. There was something repugnant in the idea of running from his pursuer, and Anderson had half a mind to stop and end the question of strength at once. He was thinking of this when Steel called out, breathless with running--- "Stop, or as I live, I'll fire on you! The Detective's injunction was obeyed sooner than he expected, for Anderson, bringing to use his long- forgotten tricks of Indian-fighting, halted with a j'erk, and stooped down to the ground. The next minute, the Detective, unable to stop himself in his flight, was lying half-stunned, with Anderson's fingers on his throat. The   revolver he had carried was thrown g whizzing into the sea, and the hand- I cuffs he had designed for his prisoner E were locked tightly on his own wrists. I Anderson had not accomplished this without putting forth much strength. Indeed, it was a question ^ at first who would come off victorious. i But he had been roused to a frenzy of  anger, and when his blood was up he was a match for any man. The boat was lying there within ten feet of the men. Anderson dragged Steel to the boat and lifted him in, still keeping that fearful clasp on his throat. A cord attached to one end of the boat served to lash about the Detective's legs and feet, and the young man pushed off before either had uttered a word. Steel was the first to speak. "Do you realize what you are doing, Mr. Anderson?" he asked, breathing heavily. "I think I do," was the quiet reply. "Don't you see," continued Steel, "That such resistance cannot last forever! The law cannot be trifled with in this way. You had better release me, and give yourself up peaceably. You ought to have a better appreciation of the duties of a good citizen,. Mr. Anderson." "It seems to me you have an unusu- ally good opinion of murderers," said Anderson, ironically, bending himself to his oars. "Death is the penalty of my crime, I believe, when I am found guilty. Think you I would give up peaceably to that fate?" "But you claim you are innocent, of course," ventured' Steel, hardly knowing what to say. "Why 'of course,' my  friend? Besides, even if I am innocent, where are my proofs? I understand I am   accused of killing Harry, my clerk. It is not likely I can produce him, and how else can I make a defence? No one is anxious for death, I believe. You aren't, now, I dare say." Believing firmly that he was dealing with a man whose hands were already imbrued in human blood, the Detective looked up uneasily as he heard this question. "What!  You do not mean to drown me?" he cried. "I don't know about that," said Anderson.  "It might - do some good to drop you overboard, and a man can hang but once, they say. You haye been seeking my life, to- night, why should I not take yours? Nothing could be easier. Many a man has been murdered and thrown over here, I have no doubt." The Detective thought a moment. "Well," he said at length, "I am in your hands. If you choose to kill me I have no remedy. There is a wife and children at home who will miss me, but I shall not beg my life.' Anderson put his up oars for a mo- ment, and kneeled by the side of the prostrate man. "Come," said he, " enough of this silly talk. I admire you, Steel, and have given your bravery a good test. I am half disposed now to give myself up, lest you be laughed at for allowing a prisoner to escape; but I hardly think I can afford to do that. I will put you ashore where you can be easi- ly found, and say good-by to you for the present. You are a brave man, and at some future day, after this plot against me is cleared up, we may meet on better terms. It is no dis- grace' to be vanquished by Albert Anderson, and your chief will tell you so. Next time you go after me take other company than blacklegs and   scoundrels, and you will have better luck." Taking up the oars again, Anderson rowed quietly but swiftly to the near- est shore. It was some miles from the docks, and he rowed upon the sand unobserved. He pulled the boat up high on the shore, and covered the Detective with a mat which lay in the bottom. "There!"' he said, as he left him, "you will be quite comfortable till daybreak, which can't be far' off. There will be plenty of passers then whom you can call to. If I dared I would take off your bonds, but that you could hardly expect. Good-by, my brave fellow, till we meet again.  Anderson walked very fast after he left the Detective, and-studied deeply on what course he had better take next. When he had labored most at his books, he had hailed adventures of any sort with delight. Experi- ments, however dangerous, were ever welcome. Experiments in Love and Literature he had in full abundance. Now here was a great experiment in -Law. Yes. He determined to make the most of it, trusting in fate for his proofs of innocence. Thus thinking, he walked swiftly on toward where the lights of the outer city were looming into view. CHAPTER VI. HENRY WALDEN MAKES A MSTAKE. A God-send had come to Walden in i the shape of a piece of gossip, and the r good people hailed its advent with un- 1 usual delight. It was whispered about t first, and then spoken of openly, and t then finally became the talk of the k town. Why had Walden, Jr., taken to visiting the hotel so much of late? c Why had he become so thoughtful and t 6   r abstracted in his ways? Why did he confound the terms good-evening and good-morning when he was ac- - costed by his friends upon-the street? Why was he changed within a few [ weeks from a lively, careless young man, to a sober, steady, thoughtful one? Why, reasoned the old ladies and the young ladies and the rest of Walden, but that he had fallen des- perately in love with the pretty stranger at the Hudson House. That is -they were not all agreed on the word. prety; by no means. Some said she might have been were there more color in her cheeks, or if she were a little taller; or if some oth- er if were different from what it was. The village girls began all at once to remember that they had not called on Carrie Hudson for a long time, and to make up for their negligence imme- diately. For several weeks the little parlor used by the family was turned into a public reception room. Ella could not help noticing the close at- tention which was given her, but she only thought it the usual curiosity to make the acquaintance of a strange'r. She was uniformly pleasant and cour- teous to all who called, but made no. particular friends among them. It would do no good, she said, when she was to remain in Walden but so short a time. The young misses who called first to obtain a view of Ella were immedi- ately exalted to the posts of informers- in-general to the rest of the commu- nity. The young men of the village began to take an interest in the mat- ter, and their sweethearts were obliged to use their most persuasive arts to keep them within bounds. At last, when the rumor began to circulate that Walden, Jr., was already the favored one, he became at once   the target for scores of envious eyes, b every time he made his appearance w upon the street. Exactly why this s jealous feeling should have arisen in the hearts of these young men, is a e difficult problem to solve. For not s more than half a dozen of them had  ever seen Miss Hastings, and but one t -a butcher's boy with a red head t and freckled face, whom nobody would s have thought of calling a rival --had r been admitted to her presence; and he testified on the same evening that Y the event took place, to having,been so completely overcome by' finding  her in the kitchen when he entered, that he was constrained to cast down his eyes directly, and never once raised them until he was out of the house again. But the young men were de- termined to be jealous, and persevered in their scowls at Walden, Jr;; who, 'very happily for himself, was totally ignorant of the fact, on account of the abstracted state of mind into which he had fallen. It was no wonder that Henry Wal- den, Jr., had fallen into a state of mental abstraction. From the even- ing when he first met Ella Hastings, he constituted himself her protector and advisor. He became deeply interested in her unfriended condi- tion, and strove to make her way as pleasant as he could. He brought books to solace her leisure hours. He bought new music for her to play on Carrie's ancient piano. He came often to see her, and she always looked the better and brighter after his visits, he wasso engaging and pleasant in his ways. He came after a time with his carriage, and with some hesitation she accepted his invitation to take short-rides, with himself and Carre. She knew he would prefer that the -third person were left out of the party,   but-she was firm when he hinted his wish; and they rode together when she went at all. When Mr. Walden, Sen.'s venerable ears began to hear the tidings of his son's infatuation, he revolved the mat- ter in his virtuous heart, and decided the thing must be brought to a stop then and there. And he took occa- sion to broach the subject at their next meeting. "What is this I hear, Henry, about you and the young woman down at HudsOn's?" he inquired, addressing Walden, Jr. 'fSir!" stammered Henry, startled out of a deep reverie by the question. Mr. Walden, Sen., repeated his interrgation. "That depends on What it is you hear,' replied Henry after considera- tion. "Well, sir, I hear that you are ex- tremely attentive in that direction, and have even tiken the young woman out to ride. How is that?"Mr. Walden, the elder, sat back in his chair and E waited, with the air of a man who had already decided the question in his own mind, and was constituting him- r self judge and jury, simply as a mat- r ter of form. ( I did take Miss Hastings to ride, s certainly,", stammered Henry. t  "Then I must say you have done e. wrong, my boy-quite wrong," said 1 Mr. Walden. "It is a bad beginning e and shall be discontinued at once." 1  "Why!" exclaimed Henry, looking at his father. "What can you have I against such a very estimable young h lady as Miss Hastings " "Ah, nothing in particular against e her," replied Mr. Walden, musing,  '" though, by-the-way, I think she has e not been out to church since she came r, here."   "Ah, but she is in a strange place," said Henry, eagerly, "and of course did'not like to go out at first among so many new people. " "No excuse at all," said Mr. Wal- den, decidedly. "She should think too much of her duty to let such con- siderations come in the way. I always go to church no matter where I am on Sunday." There was no difference between a burly man of sixty 'and this little shrinking creature of eighteen! "Is that the only reason you have for not liking Miss Hastings?"Henry asked, after a pause. "I haven't said I did not like her," corrected Mr. Walden; " only that I did not wish you to continue to-visit her so much. You must understand what I mean, Henry. I don't wish you to make a love affair out of the case, and your only safety is in giving up going to see the girl altogether." "Oh, father!" cried Henry, "you do not mean that. Surely you would not seek to influence me in such mat- ters at my age. I cannot allow it, at any rate. You are asking too much, and I must decline to obey such a very strange request. ' Indeed!" said Mr. Walden, severe- ly. "Then you acknowledge yourself in love with this girl, do you?" "I acknowledge nothing, sir. Miss 'Hastings is one of the best young la- dies I have ever seen, and is well edu- cated and accomplished. Her only fault is in being poor, and that is noth- ing in my eyes. Were I, as you say, in love with her, it is extremely doubt- ful whether my suit would be success- ful. She is proud, as she may well be, with her beauty and graces, and can marry whom she will." "Proud!" repeated the old gentle- man, with surprise. "Did you say she   might be too proud to marry youl What  Too proud '--he stopped'as if unable to comprehend the idea- "too proud to marry my son! Well, - I never heard the like!"' "I wish I knew she was not, father," -said Henry with a sigh. "Too proud!" continued Mr. Wal- den, amazed with the thought. "Does she know who you are, and who your family is? Does she know there are no people in the State who stand high- er than we? Does she know how much you will be worth, when I am- dead? T6o prold, indeed!" "Perhaps, father," ventured Henry, "she would not care for all these things, if she knew them. Perhaps she thinks an honest heart of more value than money. Perhaps--I say - she would not reckon your wealth at all in weighing out my account, were I to ask her to-morrow to be my bride." This view of the subject was so wholly out of the power of Mr. Wal- den's mind to understand, that he left it and took another tack. "How far has this matter gone?" he asked. "Only so far that I have learned to esteem Miss Hastings very highly, and, I believe, to love her sincerely. I have, never uttered a word to her on the subject, however." "Then you had better not," said the old gentleman, persuasively. "Of course, you do not mean to marry against my will, and I should never give my consent to this union. You must marry nearer your station, Henry, and had better give up this attachment without further delay." ')3ut this Henry Walden, Jr., refused' to do, and the father left his son in a passion, giving him to understand that if he persisted in his intention, he   need expect nothing more hfom him. st The young man was too much excited t to trust himself to make a reply just 1 then, and so the matter remained. a The ways in which news spreads h over a small village are past finding r out, but the medium rivals the tele- tl graph in activity. It is probable that s one of Mr. Walden's servants over- a heard the above conversation, and t casually narrated it anew to her friend ii who lived with somebody else; that t the friend took occasion to repeat it n with embellishments to another friend, who happened to mention it in con- i versation with an employe of the p Hudson House; and that the latter r personage told itto Carrie, knowing t that Mr. Walden, Jr., was in the habit s of calling at the hotel. Be this as it y may, Miss Hudson certainly knew of the affair before a dozen hours had c elapsed, and for want of better means  of passing her time, went directly and told the whole story to Ella.  If Mr. Walden, Sen., had only'seen the way in which Miss Hastings received this information, he might have rubbed his hands in glee, and given up all further fears of his son's marrying "below his station." And if Mr. Walden, Jr., had seen it, he might have found there a rock on which all. his wild hopes were drifting, there to be wrecked and shivered to atoms. When Harry came that evening, Ella asked him to tell her without equivocation, whether it was true that he had spoken thus of her with his father. He replied with an earnest protestation of love, but she stayed him. "Mr. Walden," she said, "please do not say more. It can never be, and you will understand why, some day. You would pain me deeply by   such an avowal as you were designing to make. I shall soon leave this vil, lage and perhaps never see you afterwards. I am very sorry if I have ever led you to suppose that I regarded you in any other light than that of a very kind friend, whom I shall always respect and bless. Our. acquaintance has been very pleasant to me and I shall remember it with feel- ings of happiness. But further than this, I do assure you, there must be nothing." "I will say no more, as you request it,' said Walden, Jr., deeply disap- pointed by her reply. "But you will not take from me my other position- that of trusted friend? You will still give me leave to advise and assist you, Miss Ella?" "I will say yes, provided you take care not to mention this forbidden subject again,", said Ella, after think- ing a few moments.  'I have a purpose in life that you only have an' inkling of andit cannot be set aside. Within a short time I must leave Walden, perhaps never to return. It will be useless to try to dissuade me. When I am ready to go I will send for you to say farewell." "Your conditions are hard," he pleaded. "Mr. Walden," she cried, desper- I ately, "you think you love me, now. What if I were to tell you that you one day would hate yourself for t having spoken to one so low? It is t well you were warned in-time!"Ella's s face became flushed with shame as t she spoke. d  "What can you mean?" he cried, shocked by her words. "You. are e trying to make me dislike you by e, falsely accusing yourself, but it is use- e less. I shall ever believe you the y purest and best of women, come what   may to cast stains upon you. Miss Hastings, if you are resolved to abide by to-night's decision, I will be the last one to recall the memory, in your presence, of this hope that was in my heart. But do not try to make me hate you, for that I cannot do." "We will still continue friends," said Ella, giving him her hand as he rose to go.' "Ever and  always friends," he repeated. "You will forgive me the pain I have unintentionally caused you?" asked Ella. "AS, God/ Ten thousand times - yes!" "Good-night," he said, kissing her hand. "Good-night," she answered, husk- ily, as she closed the door. Then she went to her room and prayed God to bless Harry Walden. To make the blow she had cast on his head a light one. To give him some day a' loving woman, worthy of him, for his wife. , To keep him from hating her, when her full guilt. was brought to his ears. And to reward him for his kindness to her- a stranger. She could not pray for Albert in set words. But she had in her breast a prayer for him always, and who can say it did not rise as high toward heaven as any spoken from the lips. "Poor Bert! Dear, darling Bert!" She had never regretted her great sacrifice, for she was sure he must be now on the highway to fame and greatness. Before he knew her, he  was a steady worker at his pen, and  now he must have gone back to his 1 old occupation. Had she known, ] alas! that he was at that moment  under a ban as a taker of human life,t   who can say what might have been a the consequences'? There was another prayer that now r ascended hourly from her breast a prayer for his unborn babe!  A prayer that shel might live through her trial to see its face, and cherish it for his dear sake. Time passed on, and Ella began to make her preparations for removing. Her condition was not suspected by any one as yet, but she dared not re- main longer. Her small store of money had suffered but little under the kind roof of the Hudsons, and she stood in no fear of present want. Her few articles of dress were packed ready for going, and she began the work of saying farewell to her good friends. Walden, Jr., came among the rest, and Ella gave him her hand with tears in her eyes. He begged her. never to forget her promise to send for him could he ever be of service to her. She promised again to do so, and he left her. The Hudsons were much attached to Ella, and were very sorry to have her leave them. They had never learned from whence she came to them, and she declined to say in which direction she was going. They asked her to write, and to come and live with them again should she ever wish to do so. But she replied, while thanking them kindly for their offer, that promises were liable to be broken, and would not bind herself to any- thing. When the stage-coach came, the same ruddy-faced driver who had opened his door with such great offi- ciousness to help her out four months before, handed her in with a touch of his former gallantry, and amid a general waving of handkerchiefs from the hotel, she was driven away.   As -she rode out of the village, a f gentleman appeared by the roadside, i and signalled to the driver to. stop. f It was Henry Walden, Jr.  "I am going with you as far as the I railroad," he said, entering the coach.  "It is a shame that you should leave 1 us unattended, in this manner."  She thanked him for his thoughtful- I ness, and they rode on silently to- r gether. When the town in which was i the station drew near, she broke the stillness. "Mr. Walden," she said, "I know you will never appreciate the deep re- gard I have for you, and I cannot ex- pect that you should. My present conduct is inexplicable, I have no doubt, but no choice is left me. Will you be kind enough to accept this ring?" -taking one from her finger "and keep it in remembrance of those days when you knew only good of Ella Hastings." He took the ring from her as if it were a priceless treasure. It was an amethyst set in gold, but he did not care for its value. It had been on her finger, and he told her on this ac- count he should prize it above every- thing he possessed. She smiled a little t Athis and reminded him that such thoughts were forbidden. Then, at the station,'they parted again. "Did you wish to go North or South?" asked the obliging ticket master, as she drew forth her porte- monnaie. She did not know at first, and thought over it a moment. She might die in the trial that was before her. The North was cold, and she could not think of being buried there. She would take a ticket for the South, if he pleased. She took passage on the next train for a large city to the Southward, and   from there she proceeded, after some inquiry, to a small .town on the hills, fifty miles further on. There was another stage-ride before she reached her journey's end. Then she was welcomed by a rosy-cheeked girl of little more than her own age, who appeared to be the mistress of the house. She was shown a room, and made her first equivocation as she wrote her name on the register- "Mrs. Ella Hastings." CHAPTE. VII. A NEW PROBLEM OF LIFE. Five months more have gone, and are reckoned with the past. Septem- ber is here with its heat, and the sic- kle of 'the reaper cuts down the ripened grain that stretches for miles over the hills and valleys. The orchard boughs hang loaded with luscious fruit, and the birds flit among. them, singing to each other. The cattle stand at mid-day under the shade- trees, panting, with the hot sun's rays upon them. The sheaves of wheat stand in even rows upon the dry stub- ble where they sprang to life. The old farm house. tavern, shaded by its massive elms, is the coolest place to be seen upon the landscape. In one of its large, airy chambers, there are gathered, a little company. of three, - two ladies and one gentleman, who stand with sober looks about a bed. i On the bed there lies a young t woman - only eighteen - uncon- scious; and by her side an infant I sleeps. How is she getting along, Doc- E tor?" asks the elder of the two ladies, in a whisper. i  "Oh, so-so," says the Doctor, de- clining to commit himself. "It is a   close case if she lives, though, Mrs. Langdon. A close case if she lives, in my opinion." "Is it as bad as that?" asked the younger lady, in dismay. "I fear so," replied the physician, gravely. "There is trouble here that I cannot remedy, Miss Slader. Trou- ble with the mind, I mean. There is more to the young woman's story than you have heard, depend upon it. If she is to be saved, it must be by set- ting her mind at rest, when she recovers consciousness. We can do nothing but that, except what has been done." "What was the poor child's story," asked Mrs. Langdon, pityingly.  "She came here early in May," said Sallie Slader, "and registered her name as Mrs. Hastings.  She has always avoided company, and has kept her room a great deal, even tak- ,ing her meals there. She has been very quiet and pleasant to everybody, and we have all liked her very much. ' I attempted to ask her about herself, once or twice, but seeing that she avoided the subject, I did not press it. She always paid her bills prompt- ly, and there are handsome dresses and jewelry in her trunks that show she has been well provided for. When she first, became sick, I asked her what I was to do, and she told me to stay by her until she was well again, which I promised. Then she said 'If I die and the child dies, you must bury us both together. If I die and the child lives, sell my jewelry and get it a home somewhere.' I asked her if her husband was living, and she cried out'0, no, no! Dead long ago! Believe me, he is dead, and it will be useless to look for him.' She clung to me so as she said this, that I had to comfort her by saying I did believe   her. That was all she ever said to me about it." The doctor looked very grave. "It is a sad matter, "said he, shak- ing his head, "and one that is too common, I fear. Well, if women will be fools, who's going to be able to stop them?"He looked around as if expecting an answer to the question from his hearers; but as they were un- able, very strangely, to account for a fact which has puzzled mankind for six thousand years, they said nothing. The infant awoke and commenced to cry. Mrs. Langdon took it up in a motherly way and soon quieted it. The babe was nearly two months old, and was in a much more hopeful state than'his young mother, who had sud- denly relapsed into a sinking condi- tion, and could not be roused suffi- ciently to understand that her child was in danger of starvation if she did not care for it. Had it not been for the fortunate presence in the neigh- borhood of the wet nurse, Mrs Lang- don, it is not impossible that such an end might have come to the young cause of all this trouble. Not that the Cause was in any sense to blame for the trouble lhe had caused, which is, to be sure, a strange statement to throw upon the public. The poor baby was happily unaware of the fact that he was in imminent dan- ger of being left motherless, or even that he had any mother to lose. He could not know that his father was flying from the officers of the law, and' that a high reward was set over his head. He had no knowledge of the fact that he was liable to be thrown in his helplessness upon a cold, cruel world. Well, it was better so. Mrs. Langdon rocked with the child - in a low chair near the window, while   the'Doctor and Sallie sat by quietly talking. The Doctor was a young man, of five-and-thirty perhaps, and a bachellor. He had often revolved a certain idea in his mind, as he entered his lonely lodgings of a night, and the same idea was in his mind now. He wondered if this idea ever entered -Sallie Slader's head, and determined to find out definitely one of these days. He was, therefore, very sociable, and was trying with all his powers to make a good impression on the girl. Suddenly there came a sound from the lips of the young woman in the bed. They looked in surprise to see her sitting upright, with eyes wide open, brows knit, hair streaming, and her white robe seeming like a shroud, as she held forth her hands toward the nurse. "Give me my child!' she cried. Mrs. Langdon looked at the Doctor for instructions. That gentleman rose, and walked to the bed. He was not certain his patient was in her right mind, and indeed she was not. But he saw only abstraction in" her face - there was no danger there. And he said pleasantly, that she should have the child, oh, yes! And whispering to the nurse to watch the mother carefully, he took the babe and laid it in her outstretched arms. For a moment she clasped the little form close to her breast, gazing into the face with a troubled look that showed her mind to be disordered. Then, looking up again, she viewed the Doctorwith distrust in her feat- ures, and assuming an imperative tone, exclaimed briefly, "Who are you?" He replied in a soothing tone that he was the Doctor. Did she not re- member that he had been there before when she was sick?   "What were you doing with my baby?" "Why, bless her heart, nothing, but feeding it. That was-all." "Feeding it!"She looked at him in supreme contempt. But the words did have a meaning, in her mind, though it was clouded, and she placed the child at her breast, where it might find its natural sustenance. "Don't you think I can feed my own baby?" she said, haughtily, and rocked in the bed slowly, lovingly hushing the child to rest. It was a sight that might have melted any heart--this beautiful young mother holding her babe so jealously; and being but hu- man, Mrs. Langdon cried; and Sallie cried; and the Doctor hemmed softly to himself, as he walked to one of the open windows.' "Ah!" cried Ella, perceiving it. "You may as well cry, all of you. It will do you good.- But you can't have my baby; no indeed!"She lifted the child up, and looked at its face again. "Yes," she continued, "it's mine. I was afraid you had changed it for another." She looked suspi- ciously at the doctor and the nurse and then her eyes fell on Sallie. "You-girl!" she cried, addressing her in a whisper, "I know you. Come here. I am not afraid of you." Sallie came and sat down on the bed. Ella looked at her sharply with those troub- led eyes, and becoming reassured, took her into confidence. "Those people are plotting against me all the time, Sallie. See! They are whis- pering now about my baby. JMybaby! Bert's baby!" Bert's baby! there was a clue for the Doctor, and he resolved to try it. "Bert?" he asked, "Who is Bert?" Ella regarded him steadily for a moment, and then began to chmpre-   hend his question. "Oh, no," she cried. ' You will never get that secret from me. Never! Never! This is his baby, but he must not know it. He does not dream of his baby's ex- istence. Poor, darlingBert?" "If you should die," urged the doc- otor, persuasively, " would you not want Bert to know, so he could take the child, and care for it?" "He - Bert- take the baby! Ah, no. It would ruin all I have tried to do for him were people to know of this. If I die, baby will die, too, and they will make one grave for us both." She was firm about this, and the Doctor's arguments were of no avail. She would appeal so touchingly to Sailie, that the kind-hearted girl could do little but cry, and assure her no one wanted to do her harm. At length she become tired out, and consented to lie down, with the child close to her bosom. Sallie watched her care- fully, lest her mood might change, but she continued to lie very still, and finally fell into a quiet slumber. The Doctor left some powders to be given by-and-by,' and went away, prom- ising to call around once more in the evening. Sallie took a book and tried to read a little while her charges were sleeping, but in a few minutes she. was startled and chilled by a dreadful, unearthly cry. She sprang up, and calling to Mrs. Langdon, who was in another room, threw her whole strength upon the crazed girl in the bed. The nurse came running in, caught the child up and laid it in a cradle, and then lent her assistance to Sallie, who, strong as she was, had undertaken a task above her powers. A boy was despatched for Mr. Slader, and when the landlord arrived, the lad was ordered to go in all haste for the doctor.   Samuel Slader was a strong man, but he had his match in' the delicate little creature lying in that bed. It was only by the strongest exertions that he was able to control her, in the convul- sions which lent her an unnatural strength. Every minute she would utter those paralyzing cries, and spring with fury at some haunting phantom. The Doctor came in haste, and when he saw his patient, he looked graver than ever. A quieting prepa- ration was produced, and Ella's lips were forced open to compel her to swallow it. When this began to operate, the struggles became less violent, and when it had done its full work, she lay quite still on the bed. The Doctor sat by the' bed-side, and heard the moans of the sick girl with a darkened brow. "It is very bad, Miss Slader," he whispered, in reply to an inquiry from Sallie. "If we could only quiet her mind, she might recover. But while she is possessed of this fear, she can make no progress." So the evening wore on.  Not daring to give any more of the opiate, unless it should prove imperative, the Doctor and Sallie sat gloomily watching for the sick girl to awake. It was past the midnight hour when she first began to show consciousness. The Doctor had been quite satisfied with his vigil, as long as the pretty object of his love was with him, and had heard contentedly the' solemn ticking of the eight-day clock, and the tolling of the hours from the church steeples. The round moon shed its, light softly over the old tavern, and a whip-poor-will's note broke the stillness at intervals. The poor girl ay there in the hushed room, with her spirit hovering between this world and the next. Where was he -where was   the man who should have been at her side in this hour? Alas, that they should have been separated by the babe, whose very existence should have joined them more closely to- gether  When Ella first gave signs of life, she asked in a troubled voice where she was, and then where was her baby. Being shown the child in its cradle, sleeping peacefully, she asked to take it. They dared not refuse her in her weak condition, and the child was placed in her arms. Passing a hand carefully over its face, and listened to its breathing in a doubting way, and placing an ear close to its heart, satis- fied her, and she gave it back to them, murmuring that it was not dead, as she had feared. Then she looked up, and recognized the Doctor. This was a favorable sign. "O, you are the Physician," said she. "Yes, yes," he said, smiling. "I am doing all I can for you, Mrs. Hastings. You must'be very still, now, and we will bring you through all right." "Am I very sick?" "You have been, but we trust you are recovering. If you would only let us send word to the baby's father, now," said he, insinuatingly, "you would be in no further danger." A shadow passed over her features. "No," she replied, firmly. "I can die, if it comes to that, but I will not give up to that request." She grew weaker as morning drew near, and the Doctor began to feel his old fears. "If she continues in this way," he remarked aside to the ladies, " she will be but a short time for this world. Had you not better send for a minis- ter to talk with her about. death, and   prepare her soul for the change, if it is to come?" It could do no harm, at any rate, they'said, and perhaps a clergyman might have more influence than they could. A boy was sent accordingly to the nearest parsonage, and return- ed in about an hour with an old gen- tleman, who, had the appearance of 'being almost wholly concealed by a pair of spectacles which he wore on his nose. He always looked over the spectacles when he wanted to see any- thing, and retired behind them as though they were a fortress, when he chose to make himself invisible. He had a sleepy appearance, and carried a ponderous Bible, which in his grasp looked more murderous than did ever a surgeons knife. With this book he had come prepared to probe the pa- tient's spiritual wounds if she remain- ed quiet, or to subject her to vivisec- tion should she resist. It was bad enoughlto be woke up, and compelled to leave his bed at that hour of the night, but now he was up, he propos- ed to occupy the time to advantage. Here was a human soul drifting to perdition, and, by the account of the other physician, very near its journey's, end. Hell was already yawning for its prey! He, as a minister of the Church, must plunge in and save her. "Who are you, sir?" asked Ella, uneasily, as she saw the dergyman standing by her bed-side. "'I am the Resurrection and the Life,"' read the Minister, from the book in his hands, as though he were replying. His strange manner puz- zled the sick girl, and her mind began to wander again. But what mattered this? her soul was going to perdition all the same. He read on for a while, althoughhe could see that she did not understand a word.   "My young friend," said he, as he  closed the Holy Book, " will you accept f Christ as your Saviour?" An affirmative answer would have s relieved him of all responsibility, and h he could have gone home satisfied that i his duty had been performed. But the reply she did give startled and t shocked him:           c "I had rather have Bert /" "What does she mean?" inquired ] the clergyman, turning to the Doctor. "She refers to the child's father,"-  said the Doctor. "That is the only name she has ever called him by in our presence." "Yes," said Ella, catching the idea,' though her mind was wandering again. "The child's father. My Bert, my darling Bert. The only name I know him by." This was shocking. "Don't you love the Saviour, my child?" asked the minister, after a doubtful pause. "Love!" she knew that word. "Ah yes, I love him,- Bert. Love him! My Bert! I shall always love him." The minister nodded gloomily to the group, as if to say, "This soul is lost without doubt, but I shall try once more to save it from perdition." "My young friend," he began, "Do you know that Jesus died for you?" "Jesus? Jesus? Oh, yes. As we used to sing in the school: "Jesus, lover of my soul, Let me to Thy bosom fly!" She sang the words in a low tone, and the clergyman was constrained to think she was improving. She was so strange in her answers, and sang so sweetly, that the ladies' handkerchiefs came out and were assigned to duty at their eyes again. "Then you accept Jesus as your Saviour?" said the minister, interrog-   atively. The point must turn in the former question now. "No," she replied promptly. "Bert said there wasno Saviour, and I know he is always right. I do not believe it." Poor girl  She had Anderson's theological views sadly confused to come to that conclusion.  \ "Doesn't your Bert believe in the Bible?" cried the clergyman, aghast. Ella laughed softly to herself, and bowed abstractly. "He believes one text," she re- plied. "Shall I tell you what one? It is very easy to remember when you try; and, so very short: "ove one another."' The minister came out from behind his spectacles and spoke: "I will say, my good people," he said, "that in all my contact with sin- n\ers, I never met with so hardened a case as this girl. It is a waste of time to speak with her. I fear she is a lost soul. Good-night. Although the minister had chosen to say "I fear she is a lost soul,"his tone indicated a stronger feeling in r the matter. And after he had been shown down stairs, Mrs. Langdon was moved to state that if it placed her rep- utation as a Christian at stake, she would say that she thought a man in his position, should know more than to try and frighten a poor, weak lamb in that way. And that, in her opin- ion, the poor, dear lamb was just as a good, and just as likely to go to heav- en, as he was. This rank heresy was seconded by s Sallie and the Doctor, and the latter declared that the poor lamb should die in peace, if she must die, and not ir be pestered by any more glum-faced '. ministers.   The morning light peeped in at the windows, and Ella was pronounced much better. She began from that time to grow stronger, and passed her time caring for her child, when she was able to sit up in a chair. But her kind friends saw with pain that her mind was still confused, and often she would find much difficulty in compre- hending what was said to her. She was always mild and gentle, but her recovery was by no means perfect. Her world seemed, as it were, nar- rowed by her illness to three persons, "Bert, baby and I." The child grew finely, and was as well as an infant could be. Ella gave the love she had in store for Albert, to his baby. She loved to think - when she thought intelligently at all --- that the baby was going to look like Bert when he'became a man. Then she should see Bert always in the person of his baby. But it was so many, many years to wait! On warm days she began to take a fancy to go out of doors, and find some sunny slope where she could sit, and spread a blanket on the grass for baby. It was a pretty picture to see them together there, and many a trav- eller felt his heart softened as his glance fell on them, while riding by in the highway. .Samuel Slader-the avaricious -saw them often, from the windows of his shop, but his only in- terest in them was to see that .the weekly account was squared of a Sat- urday. Ella always took out her portemonnaie when the day came, and handed a bill to Sallie,. putting back the change, if there was any, without' any idea, except that it was a proceed- ing made necessary in some way she could not understand. One day, while sitting in her room, for it was getting colder, she saw the   figure of an old man enter the yard, and walk slowly toward the house. She-was sure she had never seen the man before, but for some reason her heart rose into her throat, and she trembled at sight of him. The old man happened to glance at the window as she sprang up and hur- riedly retired to the other end of the room.  He started violently, and almost fell to the ground with the, shock it gave him. He stood gazing at the window, but the sight he had seen was gone. "Strange-!" he muttered, drawing breath, as he passed into the tavern. "How these visions do come to per- plex one!" The vision he thought he saw was of a beautiful girl, holding a babe at the window; the light of the setting sun shining calmly on the pair, and mellowing into golden lustre the rich, wavy hair which hung from the fairest of heads. A  beautiful face he thought he had known, and then, it had vanished, to be seen no more. Wiping the clammy sweat which rose to his forehead, the old man en- tered the low doorway, and sat down in one of the small stalls provided for travellers who desired lunches. The other stalls were occupied by young men of the neighborhood, who had dropped in toward evening to indulge in a glass of liquor or a game of cards. The old man was greeted with a stare by these young men, but he paid no attention to them, and quietly called for his supper. He was a travel stained old man, with. dusty coat, dusty hat, dusty shoes, and dusty face and hands. He wore a long gray beard, that might have once been red, and his hair was of a grizzled shade. He ate his meal in silence, and when he had finished,   paid the bill, and went away. As he passed out of he door a young man entered it, meeting him squarely, and looked in surprised recognition at his face. But the old man avoided his gaze, and hurried down the street. As the other entered the bar-room, the young men sitting at the tables sprang up and gave him a hearty welcome. "Hallo, Charlie! When did you get home?" was the cry. "Only last night," said Charlie, shaking hands all around. "How are you, Mr. Slader? Now, boys, you know there's nothing suits me like a bet, and if you like, I'll make you one right off. What say you?" "Yes! Yes,! Give us the bet," cried all. "Well, you saw the old man who just went out of here." "Yes Yes! What of him?" "I will bet you what you like that he was not an old man at all." "Not an old man!" cried the party in surprise. "I will bet he is not an old man, but a young man in disguise." A paltry sum was staked, and Charlie proceeded: "There is a man living in a city not a thousand miles from here," began Charlie, "who took a notion once to disguise himself and go about the country, to see life in various phases. For instance, he would go as a beggar, or whatever trade he wanted to learn about. He was rich enough without work, and- only did this for pleasure. It seems he has begun the thing 'again, though he pre- tended to give it up several years ago. That was the man whom I met in the doorway. He was pretty well dis- guised, but I knew him, though he tried not to have me see his face. Who do you think it was?"   "Tell us," cried the young men. "It was no one less than the talent- ed author- James Albert Ander- son!" Samuel Slader sprang over the counter with an oath, and caught the boy by the shoulder. "Are you insane, or are you telling the truth?" he cried, almost foaming at the mouth. "Albert Anderson, the author! Look you, at that bill there! Do you see? Heavens and earth! Five thousand dollars Reward / Are you sure it was Anderson?" "Sulre? As I am of my life." Samuel Slader waited to hear no more. With a cry more like that of a wild beast than a human being, he rushed madly down, the steet. The rest of the company followed at full speed, as soon as they could collect their scattered wits. The whole pack of them ran like so many wolves, down the road-up another hill- and down into the valley again--ran until they were breathless, and dirty and tired out; spurred on by those talismanic words -five thousand dol- lars. But there was not a sign to be seen of their prey. No one had noticed him, and in an hour they came back, Slader at their head, swearing like a madman. Harnessing a horse, he drove at a break-neck speed to the city and gave in his story, hoping to get some portion of the reward, when the Detectives should find their man ;, and cursing his ill luck to let such a sum of money slip, almost literally, through his fingers, The Detectives came out and beat through every bush for miles and miles. They searched in every shed and barn for leagues. But they found no old man with a long, gray beard, and went home with only their labor for their pains.   CHAPTER VIII. DARKER DAYS FOR ANDERSON. "It is very dangerous for you to re- main here, Albert. The officers have been watching the house night and day for weeks, and I fear every moment they have discovered your hiding place. Do go, Albert, and find peace in some more distant place, where you can stay unmolested until we get news of Harry. You must come out all right at last, but now, when here is a re- ward offered for you, and appearances are so heavily against you, I thinkyou ought to try and save yourself while there is time." It was Mrs. Haynes who spoke, and as she uttered the words, her hand was placed affectionately upon the shoulder of a young man, dressed in a rough cloak and cap, and with a short beard upon his face. Besides this young man, there were present in the room the quadroon boy Sam and and a stranger. The latter gentle- man was a man of middle age, and might as well be introduced at once: Reuben Harvard, Esq., of the Bar - a gentleman well known as a lawyer of ability; at the present engaged , on the case of James Albert Anderson, accused of the murder of his partner, Harry Johnson. The meeting between the parties is being held in a retired room at Pearl Street, 114. "The danger of, arrest is no longer a trouble to me," replied the young man. "I have fully decided to give myself up, and risk acquittal before a jury of my peers." Mrs. Haynes started. "Give your- self up and be tried! O, Albert!" "Yes," he repeated, closing his lips firmly. "I have done unwisely in evading the law at all, I fear. I can never be in  a condition   to enjoy myself while this accusation is suffered to remain unmet. I will give myself up, stand trial, and abide the consequences. If I am accquitted, I can once more face my fellow beings uprightly. If I am not found inno- cent, and proved so before all men, life will be without pleasure to me, and I will be quite willing to yield it up." "You forget Ella," murmured the widow, in a low tone, while the ever ready tears began to fill her sympathiz- ing eyes. "No, I do not forget her," replied the young man, knitting his forehead, as a spasm of pain crossed it. "I never forget her in anything, now, Mrs. Haynes. But I would not have her cast her lot with, a man branded as a murderer. It would bring her young life down lower than it has been, which God forbid should happen! I am- decided, and it is useless to attempt to dissuade me. Mr. Har- vard agrees that it will be best, and he has had more experience in such matters than we have. Mr. Harvard bowed in acknowl- edgement of the truth of the state- ment, and' the widow could say no more. If it was for the best good of Albert she had nothing to say against it. The young man turned to the quadroon. "Sam, my boy, how did that party get along after I left them the night I arrested the Detective?" he asked. "'Ah, that was a famous trick you played him, Mr. Anderson," said the boy, showing all his teeth with laugh- ter. , "We were expecting every min- ute to hear him fire and see you drop, and you may believe we were glad to see you throw him in that way. As soon as you were off in the boat, I went down stairs to see how our other friends were getting along. Mr. To-   vin was helping the dark gentleman to their boat and they were swearing like troopers over the failure. When I came but I heard the dark gentleman say his leg was dislocated again where it was broken when he fell from the train, and I could see he was not able to use it. When Tovin saw me, he hurried his man into the boat and pushed off. The  other man was groaning terribly, and said he would be well revenged on you. He wanted to come back and burn down my house, but Tovin persuaded him to keep quiet and wait for a better time. I told them if they ever touched foot on the island again, I should treat them as trespassers, and I have not seen them since." "How came the fellow's leg brok- en?" asked the young man, looking at the narrator. "Why, I suppose it was done when you threw him from the window. I should think it might have broken even if it was entirely sound before." "Did I do, that?" inquired the man, smiling ,strangely. "Gracious! what a dangerous man I am getting to be. The sooner I am under lock and key the better for society, I think. Is it not so, Mr. Harvard?" ; Mr. Harvard laughed at this sally, and the quadroon laughed, and even Mrs. Haynes was obliged to smile a little through her tears. Then the young man said he must bid them good-by for the present, but they must be sure to come'and visit him in pris- on. He bent tenderly down to kiss Mrs. Haynes before he left, as though she were a mother to him. Once, he would have been ashamed to do this, but he was learning, now. "Good-by, Albert, good-by," sobbed the good woman. "Will you have to stay in prison until your trial comes   off? Canit you get bail in such a case? I should think you might." "No," replied the young man, gloomily. "I could give bail in half a million if they would accept it, but they will not. Money has no value before the law compared with a life. I must lie in jail, I suppose, until the next term of Court. Ugh! It is a hard thought, by my soul! for one so used to liberty. Well, good-by. Come, Mr. Harvard." Passing out of doors, they entered the lawyer's carriage and drove away towards the office of Chief Police. Mr. Harvard and his companion en- tered the building. The lawyer re- quested to see the Chief, and was told to sit down and wait until he was at liberty. Long ago, before this trouble came to Anderson, he came into this very room one day, and when they had told Him to wait the pleasure of the Chief, he had haughtily shown a card, and the name had proved an open sesame instantly. This was past now. - The name on that card was of an advertised felon, and he was in no hurry to see the Chief this time. So they sat down and waited. It must have been an hour before His Royal Highness, the Chief, chose to send word by one of his satellites that the two might be ushered into his august presence. There was really no reason for such a delay, but that His Excellency desired to impress the "two men " with a proper appreciation of th6 magnitude of his position. He had known Mr. Harvard as the lawyer who had brow-beaten his officers on the witness stand many a time, and not unfrequently had secured verdicts in the prisoners' favor after all-his trou- ble in catching them. The person with him was nothing but a common laborer, anyway, and his wishes were   of small account. So he had chosen to keep them waiting an hour, while he rested his imperial feet on the man- tel-piece of his private office, and puffed a cigar from a box presented him by the last dealer who had had his shop broken open; not as a bribe, oh, no! but merely in order to secure a more earnest effort to secure the robbers. When the two men entered his room he pretended to be very bus- ily occupied with writing, and kept them waiting about fifteen minutes more in this way. He expected they would' say something against such treatment, and intended to reply that they were at liberty to go if they were not satisfied. Finding at last that they were contrary, and would not get angry at the delay, he got very angry i himself, and turning upon them sud- denly, with the airof a tiger, advised them that if they came there to prefer some trumped-up charge against any one, they had better go at Once; and that, if they did not, and had anything to say, they had better say it, ad .be quick about it. Albert Anderson had a lesson in human nature then, that was worth much to him. He had not forgotten the fawning way this same Chief of Police had received him when he came before, and it is to be doubted if he ever imagined fintil that moment that a man could be capable of such a va- riety of moods. "Come," said the Chief, instantly, without giving them time to reply, "say what you want and go; we have no time for fooling here." He glared at them after the manner of an East- ern despot. I came to see you about the young man Anderson," began Mr. Harvard, speaking as by a previous arrange-   ment. "There is a reward of five thousand dollars offered for him, I be- lieve." L"Yes," replied the Chief, wonder- ingly; adding mentally, "What is the fellow coming at, I'd like to know." " Well, sir, I thought I would bring him here, and claim the reward, if there was no objection.'" said Mr. Harvard, seriously. "What! You bring Anderson here!" cried the Chief. "Where is he?" "There will be no trouble about the reward, I suppose?" said Mr. Harvard. "N-no. If you've got the right man. But I think there must be some mistake. Hreally! Upon my soul!" He might well stammer, and then turn pale with shame and wonder. For Mr. Harvard's companion - the common laborer he had kept waiting nearly two hours, when he might have left at any time - rose, and slowly re- moved his long cloak; kicked off an unwieldly pair of overshoes; threw down his workman's cap; tore' off his moustache, whiskers and wig. Then, wiping his face with a handkerchief, stood ready to substantiate his com- panion's claim to the reward. There could be no mistake. There was never a man who looked so near- ly like another as did this stranger like Albert Anderson. There :was never such a handsome, firm mouth, or such beautiful brown hair as that which fell about his neck, when the black wig was torn away. It must be he. And though the Chief saw it was so strange, so incomprehensible, so very unaccountable, that a man should come and give himself up to die for the sake of a reward,. and he a rich man too - though he could not understand it at all,' and was almost   sure he must be dreaming, he had the presence of mind to spring between the two men and the door, and to call loudly for his clerk to send officers there immediately. Anderson laughed scornfully at the Chief's excitement, and sat quietly down with Mr. Harvard to await the coming of the officers. He had to wait some time; for there were no offi- cers below, and the clerk was obliged to run out of doors to hunt :for one. Meantime, the valiant Chief kept his position by the door with a cocked pistol in his hand. It so happened that while the clerk ran one way, an officer approached from another, and sauntering careless- ly into the station, was about to take up a newspaper, when hie heard his name called, and looking up, saw the Chief motioning to him excitedly. "Mr. Steel - Mr. Steel - come here - Quick! I have got him, safe -the man, you know - Anderson! Hurry, or he may escape. " The Detective needed not a second invitation. He sprang up the stairs and passed into ihe room, expecting to find the young man held at bay by the Chief, and making the most fran- tic struggles to regain his liberty. His surprise cannot be imagined when he found only a quiet, smiling young gen- tleman, sitting with his lawyer, and appearing as cool and collected as though he were holding a reception in his own private parlors. He was talk- ing to Mr. Harvard, when the Detec- tive entered, and, looking up with a smiling, . "Good-evening, Mr. Steel," went on with his conversation as though nothing had happened. '"There's your man, Steell" cried the Chief. I have kept him here half an hour already, waiting for some one to come. Take him down stairs ,and 7   lock him up in the' strongest cell. You had better handcuff him, I think, or he may be up to some trick. We do not want to lose him again, you know." The Detective's hand was wander- ing in the direction of his pocket as the Chief spoke. On the wrist of that hand there was left a plain red mark where those same handcuffs had been linked half a dozen hours a month ago. He had been too proud to tell his captor they were hurting him, but had borne the pain in silence. Hearing the Chief's advice, Ander- son gave him a contemptuous glance, and then, throwing up his hands to- gether, fixed his steady gaze on the Detective., "If Mr. Steel is afraid of me," he said, slowly, keeping his eyes still in that same steady gaze, "he is at lib- erty to put on those irons in his pocket." 'Not caring to say that he was, Mr. Steel immediately said that he was not afraid. Anderson then asked that he be permitted to say a few words more to Mr. Harvard, and Steel was pleased to grant this re- quest also. After which Albert put his arm in a friendly way through that of the Detective, and bidding the lawyer good-by until the morrow, fol- lowed the officer down'stairs. The cell to which he was taken was indeed the strongest one in the sta- tion. The young man thought, as he entered its gloomy portals, how en- tirely it could shut out a man from his fellows, and how hopeless would be his chances of escape. The cell was a narrow one, very small, with only one chair and a lerth. All around was stone, excep the heavy iron- barred door, and it would have served as well for a lion's cage as for the safe-keeping of one unarmed man.   "I trust you will be conrfortable to- night, Mr. Anderson," said Steel, as he turned the key. Anderson looked up to see whether the Detective was in earnest or not. Then putting his hand through the bars he grasped that of the man. "Mr. Steel," said he, feelingly, "what you have done has been only your duty, and I hold no spirit of ill- will to you for it. You will, perhaps, believe me, also, when I say that if I could, with safety to myself, have avoided the necessity of leaving you bound on the beach that night, I would have done so." The Detective replied, assuring him of his belief that this was true, and they parted friends, shaking hands again through the bars. When the young man was alone, the feelings he had suppressed until then began to rise. The shame of his position; the way people were bandy- ing his name about; the knowledge that he must be led, jealously guarded like a slave, before a police Judge in the morning, with a crowd of' vaga- bonds waiting there as he had seen them in other cases - waiting eagerly for a  look at the prisoner in the dock; the horror of long days and rights behind such bars as these, and the possible finding at the end of all, a noose and a-drop to tell the world he had died there; the living death for months to so active a disposition, of being held in custody by miserable men, so far below him in every sense;. ordered about by them, guarded by them, fed by them, locked in by them. Oh GOD! It was too much! His pride came to his aid before he quite broke down, and he assumed his old manner again. When one of the watchmen came in, soon after, there was not a sign of the struggle he had   passed through. The  watchman informed him that there was a press reporter outside who would like to speak with him, but Anderson declined to hold any conversation. And the reporter, after taking a brief look at the caged prisoner, went away sullenly and wrote out a long account of the strange manner of the arrest, ending with the statement, "We took a look at the murderer in his cell, but he declined to communicate. He is ferocious looking enough, and seems fully capable of committing the dread- ful crime with which he is charged." It was well for Anderson, had he known it, that he had been placed in the Murderers' Cell. 'For here he. had at liast the advantage of cleanli ness, as murderers were not caught often enough to interfere with the semi- annual cleaning out of the cells. Helay down on the rough mattrass, but found it difficult to sleep; not because the bed was hard, but because the watchman's steady tramp dis- turbed him, and the place was so strange a bedroom; because he could only lie awake and think all night of his position, and of the way it would affect Ella. Where was she now? He  would have willingly served months, years if need be, of imprison- ment in such a cell, to know that she was well and safe, and would come back to him again. How sldwly the watchman walks his beat. How steadily he measures his paces; how his feet clank on the paved floor. He is ringing out a metre to which come set in the Vouig man's mind the old, old song, so sad and strange: -"Her heirs forever -her heirs forever!" The night was very long, but it passed at length, and early in the morning Anderson's cell-door was   opened to admit Mr. Harvard. The lawyer ordered a fine breakfast, which prisoners are allowed to have if they pay for it, and Anderson ate it, quite unconscious that his fellow-unfortu- nates were allowed only bread and water, and told they ought to be thank- ful for that. It seems odd that in our great country, an arrested man is used. harder and fares worse in every sense before he is convicted of any crime than after. But such is the case. Anderson and the lawyer occupied the time previous to the opening of the court, by making arrangements as to how they should proceed. It was decided to waive an examination and let the case take its course to a higher court before bringing in any evidence. "Meantime,  Mr. Harvard," said Albert, "you must exert yourself in every possible way to find Harry and bring him here. That would be  enough to clear me without doubt. f You must advertise immediately in  the newspapers, far and wide, without N regard to expense. Some of them a must reach him, and he will not refuse  to come when my life depends upon it." c The crowd assembled in the court-  room, waiting impatiently the disposal t of the smaller offenders against the  law, until at last the chief of them all, e the Murderer, was ushered into the f room, between two officers. Then ti there was such a rush for good posi- tions that the Honorable Court called Ic upon the sheriff to clear the court-  room unless order was maintained. tl This had the intended effect, and sI quiet reigned while Mr. Harvard rose, in and in a low tone stated that his client n( was a man of well-known good stand- PE ing in the community, of high talents sc and large property; that his client st wished although he did not enter it at   ie this time as a plea, that the public h would continue to believe him inno- y cent until there was more than a mere Le accusation'brought against him; that a- his client, being a gentleman of great d interests pecuniarily in the city would :- not be likely to run away from a trial, r especially as he had of his own accord I. delivered himself up to the officers; ehe asked that the Honorable Court would consider whether, in view of all these facts, bail in such suin as might be determined upon, should not be al- E lowed in this case; as his client was fully convinced that the accusation was a plot of enemies which he could unravel were he given his liberty to do so; and Mr. Harvard hoped the Hon- orable Court would think seriously be- fore he placed an innocent man's life in jeopardy on any flimsy pretext. The waiting crowd listened with evi- dent dissatisfaction to his speech- fearing that the murderer would be let loose upon the community. But they were relieved instantly by the appear- ance of a tall gentleman, with a fierce, black mustache, who arose and took off his long cloak in d manner highly impressive to all beholders. . He was the honorable District Attorney of Prince County, and was there for the express purpose of alleviating the fears of the good people before men- tioned. "Your Honor," he began, bowing low to the desk behind which the Judge was sitting, "It seems to me that there can be no bail accepted in such a case as this without extreme injustice. That the defendent is rich, is no reason why he should escape the full penalty of his crime. [Cries of "that's so," from the crowd, which were in- stantly suppressed by the sheriff.] "He gave himself up to the officers,   to be sure, after he found out that they must take him anyway. But who was it that so severely assaulted the Detective who first attempted his arrest" - the Attorney looked around for Steel, and on discoyering that gen- tleman, pointed his finger at him in a manner that made him wish he was miles away - "and nearly made him- self a double murderer, by leaving him exposed to the mercy of the winds and tides?" [Mr. Attorney knew that this was a fiction, but it sounded well.] "'Who was it that kept half our police force hunting over the hills for six weeks, while he was eluding them by various disguises? It is clear, your Honor, that the defendant did all he could to evade the law, and because he gave himself'up when he could no longer hold out, is that a reason why he should be set free again? I ask your Honor that the prisoner be fully committed, without bail, to await the action of the Grand Jury at their next term. " The Judge, fwho was a half-blind and wholly deaf octogenarian, pre- tended that he had heard the able arguments presented by the counsel before him, and said that he felt it his duty to commit the prisoner to jail, without bail, .until the Grand Jury could investigate the case. This conclusion he' stated in a quavering voice and with much difficulty, rousing himself from a deep lethargy for the purpose, and relapsing again the min- ute he had finished. It is said that His Honor, some fifty years previous, had the misfortune to have a prisoner forfeit his bail by fleeing to foreign parts, and the rule he had set down then, never to give bail if he could help it, was still strong on his mind. He was a half-foolish old Judge, who let his clerk manage affairs pretty   much after a regularly prescribed. code, giving, like a Doctor's potions- ten dollars and costs for one offence, five dollars and costs for another, sixty days for another, and so on. And it is safe to say that, year in and year out, there was not a blackleg in the State who caused as mucli need- less misery and suffering, or created as many permanent violaters of the law as this Judge did. He has been dead a dozen years, but there are his living prototypes in our courts to-day, who are doing a similar work, and we blindly looking on without a word of protest. The decision of His Honor was. receiyed with renewed cheers from the crowd, and the sheriff made another pretence of clearing the courtroom. Anderson cast a look of disgust around the room, which the newspaper report- ers present set down as " another proof of the hardened condition of -the prisoner." Then, surrounded by sheriffs, the young man was conveyed into a close carriage at one e'nd of the Courthouse. The crowd outside was very dense, and all struggled hard for the sight of the Murderer. Men were there who. should have been at their work; boys who were truants from' school that day; women, who held up their little children to see the Dreadful Man who had killed poor Harry! The officers 'hurried Anderson into the coach, and he was driven away as fast as the horses could go. But in that brief minute his cheeks were' flushed and his lips more tightly compressed as he heard the crowd shouting, "H-ang the villain!" "Lynch him 1" followed by a volley of stones, one of which crashed into the carriage and struck a sheriff on the arm. He was learning another lesson -   that men and women have a wolfish nature at the bottom of their hearts, and will show it on occasion as a tiger shows the claws muffled beneath the velvety fur. They tell us there was a time when the early men used to saun- ter in bands over the forests of Europe with clubs in their hands, and after striking down the black bear and beating out his brains, they would kneel around his body and with sharp stones cut out great pieces from the still quivering flesh, and hold a fearful banquet together. How can we feel, without the deepest shame, that the nature of those men is in us yet! Prince County Jail-! There it is, a great stone-and-iron cage, four stories high, surrounded by a wall with iron gates at the entrances. Anderson has seen it before, often; he has driven by it with Ella, when she expressed so much pity for the poor men inside. 1 But going through its gates now, and E feeling them jar after him, he has a I sensation of a new character. He be- gins to realize how powerful is this I thing they call Law, and how helpless is the man who gets within its clutches. c His own money helped to pay these very men to guard him, but it cannot g pay them to let him go. He is caught, ] bound, enveloped within the folds of the monster Law, and the repast is n about to commence.        d He walked curiously through the n yard, and mounted the stone steps a leading into the prison, giving to every fr object the keen, searching look he tl always had for new sights. He en- w tered the massive prison door, and c; stood in a large, airy, pleasant look- tl ing office. What made it look so g pleasant? The windows were verv hy large and-yes, that was it--they were filled with flowers in pots and H baskets; vines running luxuriantly m   h over their cords, and flowers of all ;, colors blending in beauty together. r The jailor's wife came in while they e were standing there, with a little bas- a ket on her arm, and commenced to - cut off some of the flowers to fill it. She was a pretty little woman of five r or six-andS-thirty, and looked like a 1 very humming bird as she flew from I one flower to another. Curious to know what she was going to do with 1 so many flowers, Anderson asked her I politely, "Do with them?" she repeated, smiling and turning toward the speak- er. "O, they are for the prisoners, sir. I always cut some for them every day. It makes their cells a little more cheerful-like. Were you wishing to see my husband, sir?" "Not exactly," said the young man, smiling. "He is wishing to see me, though, I believe. I came with these gentlemen," he added, more soberly, pointing to the sheriffs. "What!" cried the little woman, putting her finger to her mouth. "You! Surely you are not a pris- oner!  "My name," said he, slowly, " is to go upon your books. I am James Albert Anderson." "Bless me!"' cried the little wo- man, again, "you can be no mur- derer. No, gentlemen. Don't tell me.: I have seen men come here for all crimes since I was a child and my father was jailor. This young gen- tleman is innocent, and I predict he will be proved so. Poor boy!". She cast a pitying look at Anderson, and then said "Ah, here is my husband, gentlemen," and left the room with her basket. The jailor was a man of business. He had no opinion to express about a man's innocence or guilt; that was   for others to determine. It was for him to take a man delivered to his custody and keep him until he was told to let him go. He sat down and took out his books, ink and pen, Then he, turned to Anderson, and asked the usual questions in a busi- ness-like tone: ' Yqr name?" i J. .Albert Anderson." "Resi'enf ,?" "Pearl stre :-, 4." ' "Occupatio i" "Author." "Age?" "Twenty-six years." "Where were you born?" "In Catherine, Texas." "Your religion?" "Protestant." The jailor arose and took down a bunch of keys. He led Anderson across the long guard-room, up a flight of iron steps, along the corri- dor, and they stopped before a door over which were the figures "37." "This is your cell," said the jailor, aild the young man went in, Mr. Har- -vard remaining "outside. They shook hands, and the door was closed and locked between them. "Bring me my books and papers and I shall do very well," said Albert, trying to look cheerful. "Tell Mrs. Haynes I shall be quite comfortable, and don't let her worry about me." "I will," replied the lawyer. "Good-by." "Good-by." "Ah " soliloquized the jailor. "The young gentleman -is cheerful enough now, and in good spirits enough, but a few months breaks them down  I've seen them enough to know. It uses all alike." And it must be said the jailor told the truth.   CHAPTER IX. GOING INTO THE LION'S DEN. The clouded mind of Ella Hastings had yet enough of perception in it to cause her no little agitation and fear over the discovery of the old man with a gray beard whom she had seen en- ter the tavern yard that day in Octo- ber. She hurried from the window at the time and sat down trembling with her child in another part of the room, trying to think where she had seen the old man, and why his appear- ance should affect her so strangely. The real truth never once flashed upon her, but she was sure her agita- tion was in some way connected with the fear lest Bert should'find her, and on no other subject could she-have been so thoroughly alarmed. 'The baby fell asleep in her lap, little dreaming what fears distracted its mother. Looking down, Ella noticed that it slept, and put the child gently into its cradle. Then, hardly know- ing why, she proceeded to bring out her clothing and her child's clothing, to arrange it ready for packing away. Each article was folded care- fully and laid upon the bed, and after all were brought out, she began to separate the pieces from each other, and to place them in her trunks. While occupied in this manner, Sallie Slader came in. "Why, what are you doing, Mrs. Hastings?" asked Sallie, surprised. Ella stopped in the midst of her packing, and looked up. She had an unnatural expression in her eyes, as if she had some trouble she could not understand, and Salhe was full of pity instantly. "I am going away," said Ella,   slowly. "A great way from here. I am afraid to stay any longer." "Going  away!" echoed Sallie. ( Surely you do not mean what you say. What can you be afraid of here? No one can hurt you." "I am afraid to stay," said Ella, shaking her. head," And I must go. I am afraid for His sake." "For the baby's sake!" cried Sallie, seeing her glance at the cradle. "O, no!" replied Ella, smiling through her troubled face, "Not for the baby's sake. Baby and I will do well enough. But I mean for His sake- for Bert's sake you know. I am gping away for Bert's sake." She spoke the word "Bert " as ten- derly as if she were soothing a child to sleep. When Sallie heard her, and saw the depth of love in her bosom for baby's father, she could not help weeping a little, with her apron to her eyes. "Don't cry," said Ella, in a tone of distress, perceiving it. "I am so sorry to leave you. But I must go. I am afraid Bert will find me here, and that - oh - that would not do at all!" The look on her face now was of genuine fright. Her bosom heaved rapidly, and she caught her breath fast. "I must goaway, I tell you. A long way off, where Bert can never find me, or -or the baby!" she cried. "I can work, and dress poorly, and, eat little if it comes to that, but Bert must not know where I am. See how much money there is there "-handing Sallie her purse. "Count it for me and see how long it will last." Sallie counted the money through her fast falling tears. She told Ella there was more than four hundred dollars!   "Four hundred  dollars?" re- peated Ella, pressing one hand on her forehead. "I don't know how much it is by that - tell me how much it will do - how much it is good for - how long it will last baby and I." It would last a year or more, Sallie told her; if she was careful of it. "A year, oh, yes; that's a 16ng time isn't it? The money will la' .2. year. Yes. And then," - me.  .ag hard - "I have some othe things I can sell - this jewelry. " lShe lifted out a little box, and showed the rings, pins, ear-rings, and chains, "This I can sell by-and-by for more money. Bert paid ever so much money when he bought them for me." The jewelry seemed to carry her mind back to the davs when she first wore it, and she showed it to Sallie, with the same half-awakened look. "When my Bert bought these, you know," she continued slowly, thinking hard, with her hand to her forehead, "I was going away from him - some- where. Somewhere? - oh, yes, to school. Iwas going to school. That was the first time I ever left him. That was long ago, you know, before I knew Carrie Hudson, or Mr. Wal- den, or you, or - before there was any baby, or -anything. Long ago." She looked so troubled, and so sad, and so very pretty in her strange way, that Sallie could not help sitting down by her on the sofa, and kissing her with both plump arms around her neck. Ella looked a little surprised at this, but gently disengaged herself and smiled. Then, taking out the comb she now used to fasten back her hair, she commenced to smooth out its golden tresses, and to talk again. "Did you know how Bert first got acquainted with me?" she asked, pull- ing the comb through the bright hair.   d'ell, I will tell you, though you r istn't repeat it." She enjoined secrecy by raising a finger in, caution. "I was a poor girl, you know, selling candy, when he found me. - And he took me home and made a young lady 'of me. Wasn't he kind?"She smiled with the brightest eyes she had shown yet, and then added, "But then he was always that." "Well, after that I went to school, you know," continued Ella, in a frank way, " and after I came back, Bert- he fell in love with me. Yes, he did. I was in love with him all the time, you see; and then he fell in love with me." "Why did you leave him," asked Sallic, seeking to draw her out, "If he loved you and you loved him?" "O," said Ella, putting her hand on the girl's shoulder, and looking very sad, "Bert was so good to me, and had so many friends, I could not stay there and bring trouble to him. He does not know he has a boy, does not imagine it even. I ran away from him to keep him from shame, and 'I shall keep it from him to the last." The glow that lit up her face as sle made this declaration made it as bright as the hair which enwreathed it. She might have been a young martyr, giving in her final decision to hold to her faith, just as the torch was applied to the wood about her. "Yes, ' she repeated presently. "I will keep shame from Bert to the last. He would have done anything for me - I will do this for him. But I am getting tired, and must finish packing up. I cannot stay much longer with you, and had better go as soon as possible." It was nearly dark, and Ella went to the -window to raise the curtain   higher.. Hearing loud voices, she stopped to listen. Salhe had just left the room to attend to her duties below stairs, and all was silent about the desolate girl-mother when these voices broke in upon the stillness. She raised a window and looked out. A dozen men were coming up the road. As they. drew nearer, she could see they were tired, hot and dusty. They had evidently been on a chase. But for what? They had no weapons with them. They looked and acted highly excited. From the dining- room door Salhe was issuinig, attracted by the noise, to ask what was the matter. One of the party is telling her. Ella hears what he says, but cannot put the sentences together rightly. Her brain only comprehends a part of the story. "Mr. Slader is going to the city to warn the police." "The old man who came in an hour ago, dusty, with the long, gray beard." The little figure is now -thoroughly startled, and sinks down by the window exhausted. What! What does he say now? -"The talented author -James Albert Anderson." James! Albert! Anderson! Bert! And Mr. Slader is going to the city to warn the detectives. To that clouded mind there by the open window there is but one meaning to all this: She sees that some one must have come to find, her. Some one must have offered a reward for her, and Mr. Slader will give her up to the police, and Bert will be ruined! This must not be! She will flyfrom the place- at once With her baby. Thus spring the ideas into her mind. She will not delay longer, for while here she is in constant fear of discov- ery. Her excitement almost clears, for the moment, the cloud that 'hangs over her intellect. The work of   packing is resumed, and by the time Sallie comes to say supper is ready, there is little left to be done. She ate but little, and was so pre- occupied with her thoughts that Sallie asked if anything unusual was the matter. She started on being ad- dressed, and asked suddenly: "' Where has your father gone?" "He has gone to the city." "When will he return?" "To-morrow noon, I expect. Why?" "Not before that time?" asked Ella earnestly.: "I think not. He has gone with the buggy, and the roads are bad." Ella thought a moment more. "When does the next stage leave here?" she asked in a moment. "Early in the morning," said Sallie. "But you must not think of going so soon. Stay , few days longer at least, before you leave us, if you must leave us at all." "O, no," said Ella, firmly. "I have decided to go by the first coach. 'If you will come up stairs and help -me get ready when you can, I will thank you. O, yes, I must go on the first coach." "Which way are you going?" asked Sallie, seeing that expostulations would be in vain. "' ,. I don't know," cried Ella, a little frightened. I can tell when I get to the railroad. It makes but lit- tle difference so it takes me a long way from Bert. Yes, I must go in the morning." After a while Sallie came up stairs and tried to reason with Ella; to in- duce her to remain until she had some definite plan of further proceedings in view;, She remin'ded her that the time would come when her means must be exhausted, and asked her what she would  do then among   strangers. She tried in every possi'le way to-show her the dangers of 1 i present course. But in vain. There was but one answer ready for it all, and that was evidently sufficient to Ella's mind: "It would be best for Bert, and that was enough." Finding her arguments useless, Sallie helped in the packing, though with an aching heart, and insisted on giving Ella her address in full, and in extracting a partial promise that she would write to her if she ever needed assistance. It was late before the trunks were strapped and locked, and the valises placed ready to be, fastened in the morning. But at last the work was done, and the young girl-mother lay down with her child to take the last night's rest she ever expected to have under that farmhouse roof. Before sunrise the next morning, Ella was dressing and making her last preparations for leaving the tavern. The baby was awakened from a sound, healthy sleep, to receive its nourish- ment before starting on the journey. The stage-driver came up and carried her baggage down stairs; a slight meal was partaken of, and she was ready for the coach. "Now I will pay you what there is due," said Ella. Sallie would have left the small sum unpaid rather than mention it, but as Ella desired to settle the bill, she named the amount. "Do I owe any one else here!" asked Ella, after handing over the money. "No," replied Sallie. "It has all been paid." "The Doctor--was he paid for everything?" "Yes, dear." "And the nurse?  "Yes, dear."    * Ella paused a moment to think, {earful lest she might forget some- thing. "You are quite sure it is all paid?" she asked, presently. "Quite sure. It is all right." Ella waited a few minutes more, trying to think if there was anything forgotten. "," she exclaimed, "You! I had nearly forgotten to thank you for your kindness to me since I have been here. God will reward you, my dear girl, though I never can. Here. You will please take this and wear it to remember me by when I am gone."' Ella handed her a ring as she spoke. "O, no," replied Sallie, trying to smile. "Keep the ring, yourself." Ella did not understand her mo- tive, and looked a little troubled as she took back the jewel. "Isn't the ring good enough?" she asked, opening her reticule, and tak- ing out the box in which the others were; laid. "Well, there. I don't believe there is a better one, but you can have your choice. The one I gave you first was a diamond. I tried to pick out the best one for you." "You mistake me," said Sallie, looking very sad at the construction put upon her reply. "I only thought you might need it some time more than I do. But if you wish it, I will take the ring, certainly, and wear it for your sake. There. It fits my finger perfectly. Ella was satisfied with this, and the two girls sat together, talking on vari- ous subjects, until the coach drove up to the door. Then Sallie, who had become greatly attached to the young mother and child, and had borne up with difficulty thus far, began to cry, and the baby's face she had been   , holding was wet with tears when she had kissed it and placed it in Ella's arms. Through the coach window the warm-hearted. girl kissed Ella affectionately, and in the act partially awoke her to a sense of the truth. She gazed sorrowfully at the tearful face of her friend, and imprinted one kiss on her pure forehead, Here, she saw, was some one who loved her, and was sorry to have her go away. As the driver mounted his seat, Ella answered Sallie's "Good- i by," with an earnest "God bless you!" and the stage coach rolled away toward the station. Toward evening Ella alighted from a railroad train in the town of Kingston, several hundred miles from Hillsdale. Shel had selected this destination at random, from a guide- book, thinking it would do as well as any, so that it only carried her a long way from Bert. Here she ran the guantlet of several scores of eyes belonging to people congregated at the depot, all surprised at the sight of such a beautiful young mother with such a little child, traveling alone. But Ella did not notice them. She rode, unconscious of the attention she had attracted, to one of the hotels, and at the first opportunity inquired for a suitable private boarding house where she could go with her child. The obliging landlord exerted himself to fiid such a place, and was soon successful. He reported that a Mrs. Wilson, a widow lady, living alone, would be pleased to add one or two members to her family, consisting at present of herself and juvenile son. Mrs. Wilson was accordingly intro- duced to "Mrs. Hastings," and an arrangement was entered into between them. This was an easy thing to do, inasmuch as Ella accepted the woman's   terms without a word, and agreed to pay each, week in advance.  Mrs. Wilson took great care to explain that she was .in perfectly independent circumstances and had no need to increase her income in this manner. And after listening to her discourse for awhile, Ella really came to feel that the lady was very kind indeed, and had almost made a sacrifice of herself for her benefit; when the truth was that the accommodations were extremely limited, the prices high, and the lady's disposition exactly the opposite of amiable. Installed at Mr. Wilson's, Ella found herself in possession of a couple of rooms on the second floor, over- looking the busiest street of the town. Here she stayed quietly by herself, for it was getting too cold to take baby out, and she would have trusted it to a famished tiger as soon as to Mrs. Wilson. Not "hat she ever thought of such a thing - the landlady was not partial to children, and never offered to touch Ella's- but if she had, it is sure the mother would have excused herself in some way, and gone away frightened with the child. She only saw the landlady at meal times, when little conversation passed between them. She was never molested in the quiet of her own chambers, where she used to sit, caring for baby and sew- ing most of the time; or gazing idly with folded hands into space, trying to recollect, to organize the chaos in her mind; to unravel the complica- tions which clouded everything of late; to explain away numberless Whys and Hows and Whens; to understand something- something which  was now a mystery; As to who Ella was, where she came from, or anything of the sort, Mrs. Wilson seemed to care nothing, as she   never asked a question bearing upon any of these points. This satisfied Ella. . All she wanted was to be let alone, with baby. And so matters passed for the first month. About the end of the first month, a very unusual circumstance occured at Mrs. Wilson's. On coming down to dinner, one day, carrying the child, for she never left it alone an instant, Ella found a strange gentleman occupying one of the seats at the little table. The landlady introduced him as her friend, but Ella was so excited over the matter that she did not hear the gentleman's name. During the meal he tried to carry on a conversation with her, but her short replies made the attempt a failure. Mrs. Wilson paid no attention 'to either of them and when, after a constrained silence, the meal' was finished, Ella departed for her own room, with a feeling of in- tense relief at leaving the presence of the strange gentleman. Hardly was Ella out of hearing when the strange gentleman turned rapturously and addressed Mrs. Wil- son.  "By George, ma'am!" cried he, "you are aperfect Angel!" "Am I?" growled that amiable wo- man. "You are, by all that's human I She is the very girl, there can be no doubt. If she is, and this affair comes out all right, you may set your bill at what you please, and I'll warrant it'll be paid without a murmur. After delivering this extraordinary statement to the lady whose income was already large enough, and who only took lodgers for company and ac- commodation, the strange gentleman sat down at a table in the parlor, and wrote, with some difficulty, the follow- ing letter:   "KINGSTON, Oct. 27, 1854. "To MR. FRED HAWLEY, care of RICHARD TOVIN, ESQ., City, Prince County: Dear Sir: I have found her at last, as I fully believe, after so long a period of search- ing. She is in this town stopping with a Mrs. Wilson, under the name of MRS. ELLA HAS- TINGS. I had the pleasure (only think of that!) of dining with her to-day, and I must pronounce her the chief princess of fairy wo- men. She answers the description perfectly, and you will have to be pardoned for your infatuation with such a very captivating creature. "But there is one thing, and deuced im- portant too, that I came near forgetting to mention. Now, don't start and say it can't be her. What I was going to say is, that she has a child four months old, which must be- long to that fellow she ran away from, An- derson. She looks all the lovelier, though, for this, and really almost breaks a man's heart with her beauty when she lifts the baby in her arms. But what is the use of my try- ing to write it on paper I You must come and see for yourself, and if you don't agree with me in every particular, I'll throw my bill for services into the first fireplace I come to. You will find me at the Kingston House. Come at once. Yours Faithfully, FELIX MCCABE, Ex-Detective, etc. FRED HAWLEY, ESQ. Mr. Fred Hawley received this let- ter the second day after it was written, and feeling that he could now leave the Masterpiece in the hands of Mr. Tovin and the Law, he set off at once for Kingston, in the best of spirits. Certainly fortune seemed to be smil- ing on him once more. Anderson lay in jail, securely fastened where ie could do no harm, and now the Pleas- ure, so much sweeter after the Pain, loomed up before him. He had fal- len desperately in love with Ella, and the thought of seeing her again made him almost forget the broken limb he had risked to gain her. When he did think of it, it was with set teeth, and a bitter determination that Ander- son should suffer to the death for his   haste. But as he slowly limped from the train at Kingston to meet his em- ployed detective, he sunk his hate our of sight for a while in the depths of his deeper passion. "Felix, my lad," said Hawley, grasping the detective's hand, "you have done well, and shall be well paid for your work." "Ah, but I had a long hunt, sir," said the man. "Never mind that, so you found her at last. But take me to the house at once. I am dying to see the beauty after such a delay. How does she appear? Lonesome and quiet, or happy and jovial." "Ah, sir, she is lonesome enough, I should think. She hardly ever speaks a word, but spends all her time in her room with the child. Mrs. Wilson says she never goes out of doors, and is always as quiet as she was the day I dined there." "She'll get over that quick enough, once I get her acquaintance," said Hawley, laughing. "I'll have her out behind a pair of fast horses within a week, and that's what'll put color in her face. Never fear for me, Felix. I know women pretty well, I calculate, and few can resist a man when he is in earnest. I'll make our pretty friend Mrs. Hawley, before three months have gone over, now remember what I tell you." McCabe did not reply to this boast, and may have had his doubts on the subject so well settled in Mr. Hawley's mind. The two men rode on to the hotel, and then procuring a carriage they drove to. Mrs. Wilson's house. They were talking about the matter in hand as they came in sight of Ella's window, when McCabe called his companion's attention to it. "There you are!"  he cried.   "Mother and child together. Ah, Fred, wasn't I right, wasn't I right, my boy?" His reply was pictured in Mr. Hawley's face. That gentleman's eyes were riveted on the pair in the window, while with one hand he tight- ened the reins of the horses and jerked them suddenly into a walking pace. Ella was sitting with the baby in her lap, watching the passers in the street, with her beautiful crown of golden hair hanging  over her shoulders, and half hiding the child from view. Hawley held his breath an instant in sheer admiration. "Yes, it is her," he murmured, more to himself than to his compan- ion. "It is Ella, without doubt, but ten times more beautiful than ever. She might answer for a Madonna in point of beauty. Sucl a prize is worth more than I have suffered to obtain it." The walking horses soon carried the men out of sight of, the window, and when the young girl could no longer be seen, Hawley  ordered McCabe to drive back to the house door. A ring at the bell brought Mrs. Wilson, to whom Mr. HawIey\ was introduced as the gentleman she had been told of. -She received him graciously, and all three of the party adjourned to one of the parlors imme- diately. "You understand, I suppose, the terms on which I have consented to receive you into my house," said Mrs. Wilson to Hawley, as soon as they were seated in the parlor. "Yes, madamn," replied that gentle- man, politely.  "I believe Mr. McCabe mentioned the arrangement to me on the way here. It is quite satisfactory to me; quite so, madam." "There must be no mistake, mark   you both," said the landlady, im- pressively. "Whatever your business may be in Kingston - in my house, with a certain person whom we need not 'name, or in any other way -I know nothing about it. You under- stand me, gentlemen?" "I think so," said Hawly, smiling. ".Perfectly?" "I think so." "Then it is all right. My terms are, payment in advance for each month's rent. You understand that, I suppose?" "Yes, madam. And here is your money.  If my plan succeeds well withl Miss - ha!'.ha! I should say- with a certain person - you shall have more than this sum and welcome." Mrs. Wilson inclined l\er head, and intimated that such an act on the part of Mr. Hawley might'take place if he choose to have it; but it must be re- membered that of everything beyond the letting of the rooms to the gentle- men, she should insist on knowing nothing. If this was perfectly under- stood, she had no more to say, and would withdraw. As no one had any objections to this course, she with- drew accordingly. Mr. Hawley and his companion de- voted the succeeding hour to -closing their accounts up to that date. The crafty- McCabe saw full well that there was no better time to settle with his employer than when he was in such spirits over his expected success. The sum that he asked and received was a generous one, and he was as well satis- fied as his principal when he put the money away in his pockets. He had formerly been a member of the regu- lar detective force of a large city, but was discharged on account of being discovered in irregular practices with the rogues he caught. Since that   time he had been in various occupa- tions, and was not unfrequently em- ployed at private detecting, as he had been in the present instance. As he folded up the money, he remarked to Hawley that he might need his ser- vices again some time; if so, he knew where to find him. "Yes," said Hawley, "I know where to find you. But as to needing you again, I - I think not. I feel per- fectly confident that I am now near the end of my troubles, and Hthink -it unlikely that I shall have to call on one of your persuasion again." "Well, however that may be," said McCabe, "I wish yotd luck, any way." Hawley thanked him, and limping on his crutches to the hall door, closed. it after him. As he turned to re-enter his rooms, the babe and mother were coming down stairs. Ella had the child clasped in her arms firmly, as if in fear she should let it fal!, and the lame gentleman thought how, she looked, for all the world, like a large child hugging its favorite doll. The girl looked up as the door was shut, and seeing the stranger, stopped, hesi- tating. "Why, surely you are not afraid of a poor lame gentleman, my child," said Hawley, smiling. "No - I - am - not- afraid," re- plied the girl, 'disliking. to show fear. She came on down the stairs, one step at a time, slowly and carefully, hug- ging the doll tighter than ever. "Your baby is heavy, isn't it?" "No, sir - not - very." One step a time. Now she passes him. "Shall I open the door?"  He springs to do it. And with an, "O, no, thank you sir, I can do it myself, very well!" she passes into the dining-room, out of his sight, leaving him in a fever of excitement.   CHAPTER X. GUILTY OF MURDER IN THE FIRST DEGREE. It was in October that the young man gave himself up to the Law, and being a slow and cumbrous body that high and mighty institution sat at its ease, so far as he was concerned, and left him safely under lock and key until December. The Grand Jury then sat patiently on his case, and fin- ally returned a true bill, as it was called, against him, for murder in the first degree. The next week the Su- preme Court convened for the purpose of testing the Grand Jury's veracity,s and their open sessions were greeted with crowded galleries. The Sheriff was kept in a state of continual sur- prise to find he had so very many friends, and was driven to the verge of distraction when he saw that he could give admission tickets to only about one in a hundred. There was a phenomenon also in connection with this: The Sheriff noticed that those of his dear friends who were success- ful in obtaining tickets took them quite as a matter of course, while those who were necessarily refused were instant- ly transformed into implacable ene- mies. And the worthy functionary had occasion more than once to de- voutly wish that some other person held the power to grant admission; the ratio of enemies made to friends gained being in such outrageous proportion. The - Supreme  Courtroom of Prince County was in- the darkest, dirtiest and most miserable portion of ,a dark, dirty arid miserable building. r The efforts, often repeated, of the better class of Legislators, had failed   to impress the rest of their body with the idea that this Courthouse was an abomination, and an insult to the god- dess to whom it was supposed to be dedicated. The majority of the men in whose hands the sovereign people had placed their lives, limbs and gen- eral happiness, could not be prevailed upon to believe that they were was- ranted in spending the public monies to build (as they expressed it), "A pal- ace for thieves and murderers." Hon- est men, they reasoned, were suffering by the hundreds for want of the neces- saries of life, and they were not going to use criminals better than these. So the old Courthouse had stood year after year, until it was rank and rotten. Moss had grown in its chinks outside, and rats abounded in the basement, where the unfortunate victims of the monster Law were locked up over night during the courts' sessions. A smell that might have reached to heaven was always emanating from this underground dungeon, so much so that every committee appointed to in- vestigate the grounds of complaint from petitioners against the nuisance, were fain to hurry this part of their duty through in quick time. For the moment they would be almost per- suaded that reform was needed in the Courthouse, but a sprinkling of cologne from the nearest apothecary's, and a dinner at the county's expense, would invariably drive such an idea from their heads. And they were often known to remark jocosely over their wine that the dungeon might be a good thing after all, for there were undoubtedly plenty of rogues who caught fatal fevers and colds there, by which they, were removed at no ex- pense to the State beyond the jurisdic- tion of Prince County. Into this miserable; ugly den of a   Courtroom, Albert Anderson  was ushered, one miserable, ugly day in December.  It was the darkest, dampest day in the year, and every unfortunate who had been summoned as a witness seemed to realize that his position was one put upon him out of personal malice by the monster Law. Each and every one of them  was afflicted with a fearful cold. So were the two Judges who occupied the bench. So was the clerk. So were the sheriff and deputy sheriffs. So were-each and every one of the spec- tators who had been successful in ob- taining admission tickets. The build- ing itself had a cold; a cold contract- ed years before, which was leading it fast down into tlve valley of consump- tion. It was so damp. that everybody commenced to sneeze directly they entered the Courtroom. One of the Judges soon noticed this fact, and at first attributed it to a lack of respect on the part of the spectators. He therefore became highly indignant, and was just about to order the sher- iff to clear the room, when he sneezed himself, and gave up the idea. Into this miserable, damp and dirty room Anderson was led by the sheriff, and assigned a seat in a chair behind an iron railing. The sheriffs then turned the key upon him, and took chairs themselves close by. Being thus for- mally placed at the bar for trial, the iproud young man lifted his eyes un- flinchingly, and looked about him. Directly in front sat the two Judges watching him earnestly. Below them sat the clerk. Nearer yet-the rows of seats were filled with legal gentle- men, young law students mostly, who had come in to see how trials were carried on. Nearer yet, and so near, that he could have shaken hands with any one of them (or clutched them'   by the throat!) were a half dozen newspaper reporters sitting at a table, ready to impale him on the points of their pencils, which they were sharp- ening for the purpose. Over to his left, opposite to the Judges, were seats for the twelve good and true men to be selected to try his case. Next to them the sheriff sat in his 'magnificence, high at a desk of his own, gazing complacently at the audi- ence who were there by his kind per- mission. The said audience were straining their precious necks to an alarming degree in the gallery above, to get a sight of the prisoner; they, as well as many other persons in the Courtroom, watching Anderson with earnestness as he sat in his box. Had he been the greatest king on earth, and the box been a private box at some fashionable theatre, he could not have attracted more profound at- tention. He half thought, as he looked around and saw the close gaze of the multitude; caring nothing for them or what they could do to him; caring nothing, in his independent fearlessness, for the Jurymen, the Judges, or; even that august person- age, the Sheriff: That it was a won- derful sight for him to see; one but few men were permitted to have before them, and that it was really the best pray he had ever witnessed. The reporters saw the fearless gaze, and hastened to write down the words: "The prisoner still continues to preserve a hardened demeanor, and will evidently abide the result of his trial with the same stoical fortitude he has thus far evinced." At last the monster Law was ready to begin his repast, and his attentive waiter, the Clerk of the Court, an- nounced the fact. -For a minute, the array of eyes were turned from   Anderson, and directed upon this individual; who seemed to take a sort of pride in his position. "James Albert Anderson," said the clerk, in a slow, solemn and awful voice, "You are set at the bar to be tried, and these good men whom I shall call are to pass between the State and you on your trial. If you would object to any of them you must do it as they are called, and before they are sworn. You have a right. to challenge twenty-two peremptorily, and as many more 'as you can show cause." Anderson would have challenged no one, had he not been' warned by his lawyer against the danger of such a course, and now as the names. mere called, he objected only as Mr. Harvard directed him. A dozen men were challenged by the prisoner, and an equal number by the District Attorney. The witnesses were then excluded from the room until they should be called to testify, and after the remaining jurors were excused from further duty, that lengthy docu- ment, the indictment, was read by the Clerk. By this indictment, Anderson was made to appear a very monster in human form. He was charged with having caused the death of Henry Johnson, clerk, by knocking him down with a club, and then throwing him into the Bay; by choking him to death; by choking him until he was insensible, and leaving him to perish in the fire set to cover all traces of the deed; and (as if not content with with having committed these heinous crimes) it alleged that he had killed Johnson in some other manner, to the jurors unknown. Anderson was al-' most too much startled when he h6ard the full extent of his supposed vil-   lainy to answer the clerk's question, "Are you guilty or not guilty?"But seeing what was required, he replied quietly, "Not guilty, most certainly," and the clerk continued: "Gentlemen -of the Jury, the prisoner pleads not guilty to this indictments and for his trial has put himself upon his coun- try, which country-you are. You are now sworn to try the issue. If he is guilty, you are to say so; if he is not guilty, you are to say so, and no more. Good men and true, stand together and hearken to the evidence." The gentlemen of the jury bowed, and, as they had been told to stand together, complied by immediately sit- ting down. These gentlemen did not escape the general tendency to catch cold, and it was several minutes be- fore they had done sneezing. Finally, however, they became quiet, and the Honorable District Attorney rose, dropped his long cloak, twisted his fierce black moustache, and commen- ced to open the case for the govern- ment in due form. The speech of the District Attorney lasted over two hours, when an ad- journment was had for dinner. On re-assembling, the same dehse crowd was found in the galleries, and on the floor of the Courtroom. Becoming more accustomed to his position, An- derson looked closer at the better por- tion of the crowd and saw'many faces which were familiar, as men with whom he had been acquainted in the city. But he recognized no one by a nod or'look, feeling it better that he should wait the verdict of those twelve men in the jury box. Only one face in the Courtroom attracted him enough to keep' his eyes upon it long, and that was of a young girl of rare beauty, who sat in a chair not far from his. She was evidently in the 8   higher walks of life, to judge by her jewelry and dress, and there was something about her sad, sweet face, with its dark eyes and luxuriant black hair, that charmed the young man instantly. He watched her for a few ; moments, until he became aware that she was returning his gaze writh inter- est, when a sense of propriety com- pelled him to look away. Often, though, after that, he turned to see her again, and always found those sweet, sad eyes, intently regarding him with a pitying look, which began to almost disturb him. In other days of the trial he looked, to find her in the. same place, watching him as before. He asked Mr. Harvard 'once who she was, and. after inquiring he brought word that she was a Miss Le Moyne, an orphan from New Orleans, stopping in the city with an aunt. After that the first thing the young man did on entering the Court-room, was to look instantly to the beautiful girl's chair;. and he always found her there, with the same expression, day after day. On this afternoon of the trial, An- derson was called to bear his first great shock. The first witness was called, and, contrary to usual custom, (though Heaven knows whi!) a chair was placed for him on the witness-. stand. The door was opened and a man came limping in with the help of a pair of crutches, and took the chair placed for him. Then, as he lifted his head and waited, the prisoner- sprang to his feet and would have leaped the railing of his pen, but for- the quick action of the Sheriffs who forced him to sit down again. There was a momentary flutter in the court- room, the Judge began to say some- E thing, the crowd to grow noisy, and' the Sheriff to rap fiercely on his desk with his gavel. When order was re-   stored, the man in the witness chair, who had caused such a sensation in the mind of the prisoner, held up his right hand and swore to tell the truth, the whole truth and nothing but the truth. It was the dark gentleman with the broken leg. There was hate enough in his face as he looked at An- derson's struggle with the sheriffs to have blighted its object in a less ap- propriate place than this; and the young man felt, as he saw the satisfac- tion with which the dark gentleman beheld the officers holding him down, that he woild stop at nothing now to perfect the plot he had formed. The witness testified that his name was Frederick Hawley; that he was a gentleman of property and leisure. He had known the youngclerk Harry, for some months previous to his murder. Found him a pleasant and agreeable companion, and was much in his com- pany. On the evening in question he was on his way to the warehouse to visit Harry, and paused on the outside of the building as he heard loud voices indoors. The first words he heard were from the prisoner: "I am in earnest and you had better not trifle with me!"Then a voice which he recognized as Harry's, replied, "I shall go when I choose, and no one can prevent me." After that, the prisoner spoke very loud and fast to the poor boy, in an angry tone, and witness heard a falling noise. Imme- diately after, the- the prisoner - came out looking very agitated, and started up street in his carriage, lock- ing the-warehouse door after him. Witness then went away.- In a few minutes he heard the alarm of fire given, and oh ascertaining where it was, rushed back to save the boy, but ,it was too late.   "But why," asked Mr. Harvard, "was it that you did not make these facts known until six months or more had passed?" "Sure enough," said the District Attorney, as though he had just thought of it. "Why?" Then it came out, and had its de- signed effect with the twelve good and true men. The witness had been at- tacked within a dozen hours of the fire by this same man - the prisoner -and to escape him had been com- pelled to spring from a flying railroad train, in which act his deg was broken. Being in mortal fear of the -prisoner -witness had waited in a hiding place until it was known he had left the city, whenhe came in and informed the authorities directly. "But why," asked the District At- torney, marking the effect of the wit- ness's story on the twelve good and true men. "Why has your leg been a year in getting well? Is not that an unusual length of time?" Ah, to be sure it was, and witness had suffered more with it than he could tell. When he had nearly re- covered, he went with his friend and Detective Steel to arrest the-pris- oner-on St. George's Island. The - prisoner-- showed fight, and being in a weak condition, witness was thrown from an upper window. At which the leg was again dislocated, and it was doubtful if it would ever be quite strong again. Witness looked at the member as he spoke, in a sad way, that drew much sympathy. from beholders. Thus was thrown upon the' jury the masterpiece oi the Masterpiece, and t as they glanced from the unfortunate t dark gentleman to the cause of his injury, glowering like a caged panther   in the dock, they saw there exactly what the District Attorney wanted them to see: A young man of violent passions, who would scruple at noth- ing to carry out his wishes. It needed not the testimony of Mr. Jenkins, forced upon the stand against his will, to say that Anderson had told him there was little danger of Harry's coming back; it needed not the evi- dence of several persons who had heard a disturbance in the warehouse at Brown's Wharf on the night in question it needed not that Fred Steel should be compelled to rehearse the usage he had received at Ander- son's hand; and the other links of the chain of circumstantial evidence: to convince the jury that the prisoner was a most dangerous man to have at large in a community, and had with- out a doubt killed his partner in a fit of fierce anger. The plea of the Dis- trict Attorney expatiated on this prob- ability, and fixed more firmly their opinion. Mr. Harvard's evidence re- garding the prisoner's position in so- ciety and the improbability of his committing the high crime with which he was charged was well brought in, and his argument was one of wonder- ful conception. But in the jury's ears there were ever ringing the remem- brance of Anderson's strange actions after the fire; his low spirits, and sud- den departure for Texas. Mr. Harvard would have explained the reasons for what followed Ella's, loss, but Ander- son forbade it. He saw it would make matters look no better, and preferred tobury his secret in his own aching heart, to live there if he lived, or die with him if he died. So the trial lasted until the evening of the fourth day. The young man saw as it proceeded that he had little to hope, and was greatly astonished to   see the circumstances of Harry's disap- pearance arraigned in such compact order against him. The continued closeness of the confinement, in a crowded unventilated room -though, thank Heaven! he was spared the horror of spending nights in the dun- geon below -with the excitement he underwent on the appearance of each new clue, wore on him to a marked degree. It was breaking him down. But he held up to the last, watching with the deepest interest, until the evidence and pleas were all in. -This was; as has been said, on the' fourth day. At the conclusion of the District Attorney's argument, one of the presiding judges arose, and de- livered his charge to the jury. It was a long speech he made, but the sub- stance was that usual in such cases -"If you think he is guilty, say so; if you do not, say he is not." Then those twelve good and true men marched out of the court-room, and a recess was had until they should an- nounce their verdict. This stay of proceedings enabled 'Anderson to rouse himself for a while, and was so-far highly beneficial to him. He was taken by the officers to a private room, where Mr. Harvard did his best to raise his spirits, though he knew there was little to be said in favor of, a probable acquittal. Ander- son said little, but busied himself be- fore a small glass in arranging his attire, washing the dull look from his eyes, and combing out that hair which was of itself a mantle of purity upon his young shoulders. He resolved to receive the jury's verdict, whichever  way it was decided, in a perfectly un- moved manner, as he would, were it against him, walk by-and-by to the scaffold they would raise for him. Soon the Sheriffs announced that   he was to resume his seat in thedock, i and nerving himself to meet the shock t which was was to come, Albert Ander-  son walked, almost smiling, into the  court-room. One by one the twelve  good and true men filed into their  places, and the court-room was as si- 1 lent as the graves of the men who had i gone out of it, time after time, to their deaths. The name of each juryman was called, and each answered "Yes." ' James Albert Anderson?" "Yes," - in a firm voice. "Mr. Foreman, have you agreed upon. your verdict?" "We have." How the court-room clock ticked then! "Is the prisoner at the bar guilty or not guilty " "Guilty of murder in the first de- gree " The worst was over to Anderson now that the suspense was gone; and he sat there without moving a muscle, still almost smiling. "James Albert Anderson, have you anything to say why the sentence of death should not be -passed upon you?" Now is your time, lovers of the sen- sational! The young-man has risen in his pen and raised his white hand. "I have this to say, Your Honor," said the firm voice, while the raised arm might have grasped a thunderbolt as he held it .on high, " that I have entered in truth my plea of not guilty to the terrible charge against me, and that it will stand on your records, a black witness against you, after I have been sentenced and executed! I have this to say, that I have been found guilty without one atom of proof, and   if I die it will be with the firm belief that these gentlemen will yet repent most bitterly their unrighteous ver- dict. I believe Harry Johnson to be alive somewhere, and that he will sooner or later appear to show you the careful way in which you should receive circumstantial evidence. I am not afraid to die, and if my death has the effect to induce a revision of your criminal code in this respect, my life will be well yielded up!" Calmly the Judge arose. Calmly he advised the young man that protesta- tions of innocence were too late now, and counselled him to prepare for the death which awaited him at the hands of the Law he had outraged. Calmly he dwelt on the fearful crime of which the prisoner stood convicted, and im- pressed his hearers with a sense of the power of that' Law which protested against such acts. Then; calmly as ever, he uttered the sentence of death: "The sentence of the Court is that you be taken from this place to the Common Jail of the County of Prince, there to remain until, on such day as shall be fixed by the Executive Gov- ernment of the State, you be thence removed to the place of execution, there to be hanged by the neck until you are dead. And may God have mercy on your soul!"  The young man bowed to the sen- tence, still almost smiling. The re- porters drew their own conclusions from , his demeanor. The gazing crowds in the gallery waited to get i the last look at the prisoner. The L sheriffs waited by until the floor should a better cleared for his pasaage. The twelve good and true men went away, I doubting in their hearts whether they i had done right by giving in such a   verdict. The High Sheriff looked un- concerned and wise, as if to say, "O, I am so used to these matters, you know!"The clerk of the court busied himself ambong his papers as quietly as though they did not mark a fellow creature out for death. The witnesses asserted their importance by going out to mingle with the crowd and be- come temporary lions-all but one of them. All but one! A dark gentleman with black, curling hair, came out of the witness seats on a pair of crutches, and limped into the aisle, waiting the passage of the prisoner. Mr. Harvard came with tears in his eyes to comfort his client, but he did not need it. He was calm as had been the Judge when he read his dobm, and received the lawyer as he had the sentence, almost smiling. While they were speaking, a noise attracted their attention in one of the spectators' seats, and they looked, to see officers carrying out a female form, insensible, with black hair streaming over the men's arms. It was the young wo- man who had sat near the prisoner through all the trial. "Poor girl!" said one. "She faint- ed dead away when she heard the sen- tence." Anderson was looking pityingly after the quiet form, when he was call- ed to go with the sheriffs. As he turned, the dark gentleman with the broken leg confronted him. "Ah!"  he hissed, "Where are you now?" It was too much to bear at that time, and springing from the officers, Anderson struck the man a fearful blow which felled him to the floor. The sheriffs caught their prisoner and hurried him away, but not until a voice had called out: t . .   "Very well, you have had your Way, once more. But I have your Ella, and, shall have her after you are dead I " The officers lifted Anderson then like a dead weight, for he had fainted. At last! At last, he was broken down. CHAPTER XI. VALLEY OF THE SHADOW. The sentence of death, or the pros- pective horror of a public execution could never have broken Albert An- derson down. It required those taunt- ing words of the dark gentleman to give that twinge to his heart which had thrown him lifeless upon the Sher- iff's officers. It required that spasm of pain which came from probing causelessly a wound which was al- ready deep enough. Ella and he had been separated for this world, finally and irrevocably, by the results of the day. And when there was added to this the thought that after his death, she would live to bless such a man as Hawley, who had used such base means to obtain her-then his brain whirled, his strength failed him-he was broken down. For a week afterward he knew nothing of what passed. He lay uncon- scious in his prison bed, with nothing before his mental vision but one hor- rid blank. Physicians came andwent; friends from among the few there were left him; the Jailor's wife, with her boquets; Mr. Harvard, Sam, Mrs. Haynes; all came often to look on his still face, but he did not know it. Anxious representatives of the daily press came to the prison office to learn the condemned  man's con- dition, and startled the public by ex- pressing fears that "Anderson would yet cheat the gallows. "This horrible   fear induced the jailor to caution the prison physicians lest some secret poi- son might be given the young man in his medicines. Let all the world be cheated, if you will, but the gallows must have its due I One day a young lady entered the Jailor's office whom he had never seen before. She walked trembling up to the Jailor's desk, and there waited to make her mission known. She was evidently in a strange place, and, somewhat confused by the circum- stance. "Did you wish to speak to me?" inquired the Jailor, rising.  "Are you the - the prison-keeper, sir?" stammered the young lady. "Yes, I am Jailor here. Take this chair and compose yourself. You are not used to such places as this, I im- agine." "O, no, sir! I was never in a prison before in my life. It must be dreadful, sir, to live here. There is one gentleman here, isn't there, who is very wealthy and highly educated? The one who was convicted recently of - killing." "Mr. Anderson? Ah, yes." "Does he, does Mr. - Anderson --live in a stone room, like these about us " "Yes, only a little stronger built. -He has been convicted, you know, and after that we always put them in the murderers' cells." If the Jailor had known what a stab he gave her, he would not have said these words so lightly. "Do you think they will - hang-him, sir.?" He might have heard her heart beat as she awaited his answer. "There is little doubt of it, I guess."   "I see by the papers that he has been very ill since he was sentenced." "Yes. He is lying sick in his cell, now. He has not spoken or recog- nized any one for a week. Would you like to see his cell?" The girl held back a moment, and then said, "Yes, she should like to see it very much." Thie Jailor proceeded up the iron steps, along the corridor, and stopped at the first in the row of murderers' cells. Mr. Harvard and a physician were sitting by Andersor's bed, but rose to welcome the Jailor and his companion. The lawyer looked sur- prised to see the girl,'when the Jailor explained that she was only making' a tour of the prison. As Mr. Harvard glanced at the young lady, her eyes met his and the recognition was mutual. TheJanitor stepped inside the cell to speak with the physician, and the two were left alone together a minute. "You are the young lady who sat near our poor boy at his trial, I believe"/ said Mr. Harvard. "And you are the gentleman who tried so hard to save him," she replied, taking his hand. "O, is there yet no hope?" "There is always hope while life lasts," said Mr. Harvard, gravely. "Albert has experienced a shock since the trial, which has laid him where he is, but he is getting better fast. , We are hoping to hear from Harry every day, and if we do not hear before the day appointed for the execution, I think I can prevail with. the Governor to grant a respite of a few weeks more." "The gentlemen are coming out," said the girl, nervously. "I must talk longer with you, sir. Won't they   leave us here a little while if you ask  them? Tell them you will show me to the office." Mr. Harvard was interested in the fair girl, and at once willingly com- plied with her request. The Jailor was informed that the lady was an acquaintance, and they would be down soon together. No objection was made to this, and as the others went away, the girl and her new friend entered the cell. Albert was still in that fitful sleep, and their'conversation could not awake him. The girl was trembling like a leaf when Mr. Har- vard offered her a chair. "I came here to-day," she began, "afraid and uncertain. I took a great interest in Mr. Anderson, the first day I saw-him, which. was long ago, and when I heard of this dreadful thing I got a ticket for the trial. The close Courtroom affected me, 1 think, or something, for when the Judge said the sentence, I fainted clear away." "I noticed you every day," said Mr. Harvard, seeing that she hesitated. "So did Albert. He asked who you was once, and I inquired until I learned your name. He was quite concerned :when he saw you had swooned, but-the officers were ready 'for him, and he could do nothing." The girl's eyes brightened, and she continued : "You know my name then, Mabel Le Moyne. Yours is Mr. Harvard, I believe. I am7 stopping in this city with my aunt, Mrs. Davis. She is my guardian, and I have lived with her nearly all my life. I have always had my own way, and when I wanted to go to the trial she talked a little while and then let me go; and when I told her this morning that I vas com- ing here, she objected but little. I \   heard Mr. Anderson was sick, and thought-perhaps -I could  help, someway, about taking care of him." Seeing that Mr. Harvard looked a little doubtful, she added: "I am willing to do anything, sir, to help. When I thought of such a nice gentleman, so used to comfort, sick in prison, I could not help com- ing to see if there was not something I could do." She was actually pleading with him now, and the lawyer's heart melted a little before her earnest face. L "I am sure," said he, " that Albert will appreciate your kindness, for I will tell him of your offer when he becomes  conscious. But, really, whether the regulations of the prison, or whether you could do anything more than we can do, I don't know-" "O, Mr. Harvard, try and arrange it in some way!" cried Mabel. "I am a splendid nurse; I am, really. When my uncle was- sick with the fever in New Orleans, I took almost all the care of him for five weeks. 2 came here to-day in this plain dress, so that I could make them think I was poor, and wanted a situation to take l care of a sick person. Then I was oing to ask' that I be sent to Mr. Anderson's room. But when I saw e you, I waited." The lawyer smiled to hear of her 1 ingenious device.' "I am afraid your intention would y not have succeeded, Miss Le Moyne," s said he. "Still, as you are so kind, I h will see whether the Jailor will let you s come here to watch with Albert a d part of the time. There is little else e needed to be done,' except what the I Doctor can do himself. I will call a i- turnkey, and we will go down to the I office." r   The Jailor was in his usual seat, while his little wife stood near by, cutting off roses for the prisoners. "My friend, Miss Woods," said the lawyer, improvising the first name which occurred to him. The Jailor's wife bowed and smiled. "'My friend," continued the lawyer, "has had some experience at nursing the sick, and if it is consonant with your rules, I would much like that she should be allowed to have partial charge of Mr. Anderson for a while. She can come in the- morning, and relieve your phy- sician of a part of his work, making it pleasanter all around." "Yes," said Miss Woods, seeing that the Jailor looked to her for a. confirmation. "Mr. Harvard was kind enough to mention the matter to me, and I should like to 'come very much." The Jailor meditated a little while, and said the case was so unusual, he didn't know what he ought to reply. But if he did not, his little wife did, and stopped in the midst of her flowery kingdom to say so. "Of course the poor'sick boy could have a nurse if Mr. Harvard wanted him to, the dear boy that never was guilty of the crime he was accused of. She should think he might be made comfortable for the little while he had to live, without anybody's fretting over rules and regulations." So earnestly did she argue her points, that the Jailor was quite taken by storm, and began to feel that he was acting very cruelly to make any words about the matter. "O, yes," he said, "certainly; there was no objection whatever," Mabel thanked him with a glad look, and then left the office with Mr. Harvard, who insisted on seeing her home in his carriage before he would leave her. The girl was in high   spirits over the results of her strategy, and her flushed cheek told the lawyer as he assisted her to alight before her aunt's mansion, that she was quite pleased and happy. Had Mr. Har- vard been permitted to take -a look. into the future, and seen whither the day's work, which appeared to him so harmless, would ultimately lead, he might have hesitated ere the fictitious Miss Woods found creation in his mind. But as he could not, Mabel's life was interwoven with the rest of them. The following morning found Al- bert's new nurse at her place. The prison physician and the Jailor were present to give her instructions; which she was told to observe very particu- larly. Remembering the newspaper rumor, the Jailor hinted to Miss Woods that if Anderson should be given any poison by her, she would be held for the crime of murder, as much as he was now.- The expression of horror which came into her face when she comprehended his meaning, was genuine enough to have convinced a less careful man that he had nothing to fearnin that direction. When the men went away and left her alone with the sick gentleman, she thought how dreadful the suspicion was, and knew she would sooner risk her life to save, than to destroy him. Reared tenderly as she had been, Mabel LeMoyne accepted the trust before her without a fear. The shripk- ing, frightened girl, who until yester- day-never saw the inside of a jail, could sit down quietly behind iron bars, and think nothing of the stone wall which encompassed her.  Her infatuation with the young prisoner, strengthened by sympathy during his trial, had grown so strong now that beside it she knew no equal.' As long as she could *m   be near him, doing him good; she nothing for the lonesome jail, the close Cell, or her own comfort. Mabel had watched with Albert near- ly two weeks, when one afternoon, be- ing alone withhim, he sat up in bed and asked for water. It was the first sign of consciousness he had shown, and the girl sprang joyously to obey the request. Her young heart beat hard and fast as she held the goblet to his lips, and saw that he watched her closely as he drank the cooling liquid. She blushed deeply before his search- ing eyes, and stood, uncertain how to act, by the bedside. "How long have I been sick?" asked Anderson, in a feeble voice. "Three weeks, sir," replied Mabel, timidly. She felt her courage going now that her patient had found his voice. "So long! Where is Mr. Har- vard?" "He is away now, but will return soon. He comes to see you very often, and so does Mrs. Haynes and all of your friends. You must lie down and be quiet, sir. Those were the physician's orders." The sick man laughed a little. "Pray who are you?" he asked, pleasantly, "that come here to give me physician's orders, or anybody else's orders, for that matter. Reveal your- self; and explain your presence in this prison." : "Mr. Harvard engaged me to take care of you, sir, after you were taken ill. That is all." "And you, then,are -- By Heav- en! Where did I see you before? Are you not the young lady I saw in the Courtroom?" "Please don't get excited, sir," she pleaded, casting down her eyes, "or   you will be ill again. Yes, H-was in - the- Courtroom." "And why; tell me truly; why did you come here?" asked Anderson, gently. "O, sir, you were so ill, with only men to care for you! I could do no less than offer to watch with you part of the time. I pSitied you so, sir." The dimmest possible shadow of the truth came into the young man's mind. "You were very kind," he said, "but let me warn you to be careful and be content withpitying me!"Then he added, bitterly, "For to those who care more for me than this there comes only sorrow and disgrace." The labor of speaking was tiring him. He lay down for a few minutes, and then, rousing himself again, asked about Mrs. Haynes. Mabel told him she came often,but the doctors said her health would be jeopardized by remaining long in the jail, and she had yielded to her friends' persuasions. "What was it," he suddenly asked, after a period of quiet, "What was it that made me sick? I saw you faint away, and then I turned to go with the officers, and then -oh, yes! I remem- ber. It was what he said. O, ,the pain, the pain!" Anderson pressed his hand to' his heart, and a cloud came into his face. After that he did not speak again until it began to grow dark, when he looked up to see his nurse putting on her shawl and hood, as if to leave the cell. "Where are you going?" "Home, sir, as soon as Mr. Harvard returns." "And you will come back to-morrow?" "O, yes, to-morrow." ," Your name?" "Mabel Le Moyne."   t"I remember it now," said the sick man. "Please sit closer to me. There. Let me take your hand." She yielded it to him bashfully, and when he took it, how her heart did beat! "You reside with your aunt, I be- lieve?" "Yes, sit," she assented. "Mrs. Da- vis." "Is she perfectly willing you should come here?" said Anderson. "O, yes. She never opposes my wishes when I decide upon anything." "Indeed I She, has great confidence in you, then?" A step was heard at the farther end of the corridor, which brought the blood to Mabel's cheek. "Mr. Harvard is coming," said the girl. I Anderson looked up brightly. "You will be back to-morrow?" "To-morrow." The steps became louder, and Ma- bel sat back a little from the bed. Mr. Harvard looked very much pleased to s ee the progress Anderson had made, and said cheeril y: "My dear boy, you are looking quite finely I Really, now, you wilJ be on your feet in a day or two." "Thank you," said Albert. "I hope so surely. I have to thank you for my good nurse, also, I understand." Mabel blushed and said she must be going. She was quite well used to the walks of the jail by this time, and after saying good-night, she departed for home. "Now," said Albert to the lawyer, when Mabel had gone, "sit down, and tell me everything." Ought I not to wait a few days till you are better?" asked Mr. Harvard, hesitating. "No, or I shall die of uncertainty.   Tell me all, now, good or bad. I can bear it as well as I ever can." "There is little to tell," said the lawyer, after a pause, "but you shall have what there is. In the first place, not a word has been received from Harry. The exceptions which I drew up the Supreme Court were over- ruled, though as for that for I \built no hopes on their success. Tovin and Hawley are off and on about the city, and keep their affairs too close to enable us to get a word from them. My hopes now must lie on Harry's turning up at last, which he may do any day, you know, or in a commu- tation from the Government. I shall argle your case before the Council this week." "I-as the day for the execution been set?" asked Albert. "Yes, but that is a mere matter of form, and will have no influence upon the case. The day has been set-- Ith of April. Three long months yet to work, Mr. Anderson.  We should have much to hope from that." Anderson smiled bitterly. "Hope on as long as you can," he said. "I count but little on commu- tations or pardons. They are bound to hang me, innocent or guilty, and I think it will have to be done. But for one thing they might go ahead and welcome. You heard what that villain said when I fainted in the Courtroom?" "The- dark  gentleman?  Yes. He seems determined to make your life miserable to the last. But," said Mr. Harvard," I do not place any confidence in what he insinuated there. Not the least, I assure you. I thought you had more faith in Ella, Albert, than to heed such a story." "My dear friend," said Anderson, "I hope you are right. I have indeed   great faith in Ella, even though she left me as she did. I am willing to believe that she was led away by false representations, and not from any wish to do me wrong. Still we must consider that the same influence ' which was strong enough to iniduce her to leave me - and that all points to the dark gentleman - would very likely be strong enough to mould her to his other wishcs. Poor Ella! She is to be pitied if her destiny has fallen into such hands as that man's. And to think that I must lie here and do nothing- it is horrible beyond de- scription!" The lawyer could say but little to comfort him, and as he was becoming weaker they parted for the night. From that hour, Albert Anderson grew calmer, surprising his friends daily by his demeanor. He would lie for hours without speaking a" word, watching. Mabel at her sewing or reading, and then sometimes would change as suddenly and become very talkative, keeping the girl busy with his questions. At such times he always insisted on holding her hand in his, and her heart never got 'over that habit of beating fiercely when she was near him. Every morning he would welcome her with a glad look, which invariably sent the blood to her cheeks. And every evening he would say, holding her hand:  ' You will be back to-morrow?" And she would answer with her c heart in a fluttter: "To-morrow, Mr. Anderson."  It was not long before the sick man 1 was pronounced able to sit up in v an easy chair brought from Pearl ] street. The -Jailor was careful now t to have the cell door locked after visi-  tors went in and out, lest the prisoner should attempt an escape. Had An- 1   derson reached the yard, there were guards and high walls which he could not have passed, but the Jailor was jealous of the credit of his institution, and was unwilling to run the slightest risk. Somebody whispered, too, that Miss Woods' services could be spared, now that Anderson was so far recov- ered, but the young man himself would not hear of it. So Mabel came as before, every day, and as Anderson grew stronger she became more of a companion than nurse. They read books together, and talked of authors both were familiar with, making many a long day pass quickly and pleasant- ly. Every hour the chains which bound Mabel to Albert were riveted stronger 'and stronger. He never thought of -love in connection with her, but only of the pleasure it was to have an entertaining companion, who would come to visit him in that dark cell. .She thought of nothing but love in connection with him, and believed that if'he should ever be proven inno- cent, he could do no less than repay her fidelity by marriage. She had heard of his love for Ella, but thought as did many others, that as she had deserted him his heart was again free. Each in their blindness was piling up suffering for the other With an unspar- ing hand. The weeks flew by, but no new hope came to the prisoner. The Gov- ernor and Council reported that they could not grant either a respite or a commutation. No news came of the lost boy, Harry. All their hearts began to. fail them. Mrs. Haynes was nearly wild with grief, and Mr. Harvard relapsed into melancholy he could not wholly conceal, for he had become strongly attached to his client. The rest of them felt severely the blows as each prop gave way, though   none showed their feelings so little as t Mabel. She resolved to be a comfort r to Albert to the end, whether it were to be on a hangman's -scaffold, or in a the free, open air she hoped and t prayed for. Anderson gave up all ] expectation of life long before April  came, and busied himself in arrang- t ing his affairs with Mr. Jenkins.  Several important changes were made ] in the will, and Anderson placed his  signature to the document with a bold,  steady hand. He wrote much of the time as April drew near, finishing several works which hid been neg- lected, and closing up every duty he could think of. One day, while en- gaged in this manner, with Mabel sitting near by, reading, a sound struck on their ears which startled both. It was the noise of a carpenter's saw driving through timber. Mabel did not need his whisper, "The galtows," to know the dreadful im- port of the sound; and losing all control of her feelings, she burst into tears. Anderson reproved her mildly. "My dear girl," he said, "you must be calm. This is only the beginning, and if you fail now, what can I expect in. the future. The carpenters are only making-the bed where I shall go to sleep soon. Pray do not cry. I thought ybu were braver than this." "I will not cry," gasped Mabel, re- covering herself. "It was only the first shock that affected me. I will not show my grief again." "Now, you are truly a brave girl," said Albert, passing his arm about her waist. "You deserve a better reward than to be a condemned man's friend." "Her fluttering heart heard him, and beat faster than ever. " O!" she   thought, "if his life is spared will he remember that?" The gallows was finished at last, and soon after the High Sheriff came to the jail to speak with the prisoner. He was surprised to be received with a grasp of the hand, and was obliged to mutter something about its being only his duty, you know, and he couldn't help it. To which Anderson replied that he had no doubt the execution would be very painful to the Sheriff, and he only wished to ask one favor.  Being in a very nervous condition by this time, the Sheriff begged him to name it and it should be done if with- in the bonds of possibility. "It is a very slight favor," said Anderson, "for you to grant; but it is much to me. I wish to be allowed some day, when no one is present, to go with you upon the scaffold, and have the whole thing explained to me. So that I can be ready on the day of execution to walk to my place unhesi- tatingly, unappalled by any new hor- ror in the scene." The Sheriff granted this wish, though he declared it a very strange one, and : on the succeeding day he came to fulfil his promise. At one end of the t yard the great instrument of death stood black and gaunt against the ) prison wall. Anderson walked up to [ it with the Sheriff, ascended the stairs, stood on the drop, saw the beam above - his head where the rope was to hang, e examined curiously the greased bolt 1 that would be drawn by a pressure of\ the foot to send him into eternity, and then walked back to his cell satisfied t that he could finish his part in the r drama with credit. It seems very s simple to him now. Only io walk up those steps, go through a few formali- I, ties, on with the rope, down with the e black cap, six feet of sudden fall, a mo-   mentary flash of pain-and all would be over! The young man actually gained strength by settling in his mind the exact amount of horror there was in the decree-' hanged by the neck until you be dead!" The days passed swiftly. Every- thing was ready for the final act in the long, long drama. As evening drew near on the ioth day of April, one after another of, Anderson's friends took their, farewell of him tearfully. He alone stood unmoved to bid them "good-by," and to beg them to re- member that the day must come when his memory should be vindicated. To Mrs. Haynes he said, God would bless her child, and find her friends after he was gone. Anderson had previously received full proofs of Ella's relationship to the widow, and left them rich by his last testament. When all were gone but Mabel and Mr. Harvard, Albert stood by his little barred window, looking out on the harbor, a part of which was plainly visible, thinking of the Great Sea he should sail out upon to-morrow! Oh! was there no ship on this lower sea;. coming in to bring him a rescue! It was almost dark when Mabel, who had stayed till the very last mo- ment, rose sadly to put on her shawl and bonnet. As she came to the door trying to look cheerful so that he should see her brave to the end, he turned. From very force of habit the words came, as they had every night for weeks: "You will come to-morrow?" She could not answer, and the turn- key swung the door which closed between her and  Anderson. She staggered giddily down stairs, and fell fainting on the guard-room floor. Here she found her. The Jailor's little wife bathed her hot head, and   brought her to consciousness. The poor girl had borne up so long, but she could do it no longer. The first words which fell from her lips as she came to life were of utter desolation and despair: "To-morrow/ IMy God! To-n or. row /" BOOK THE THRD. 40. CHAPTER I. SCENES OF THE SCAFFOLD. If the High Sheriff had been beset with friends when the trial com- menced, what shall be said of the deep affection which he found existing for him when the day of the execu- tion drew'near? Everybody who had ever known him, or whose friends had ever known him; all of the police, city, County and State officers, with their friends; every doctor,,coroner or undertaker, who might be supposed to have an interest in dead bodies; dozens of school teachers and clergy- men, who wished to impress this lesson on their' pupils and congregations; every newspaper reporter, correspon- dent and editor within a hundred miles; lawyers, young and old; with scores of other people who wished' to be warned of the fearful consequences of Murder; came, pers6nally and by letter, to the High Sheriff, and asked admission tickets to Prince County Jail Yard, for April II, from 9 to I2 A. M., in the sacred name of Friend- ship. The Sheriff could not admit all, and finally adopted the sagacious plan of giving out a certain number of tickets until they were exhausted, and then declining to admit any one else on any pretex. This plan was a very simple one, but it enlarged the   army of enemies to the worthy official in an alarming degree. In fact, it was broadly hinted by more than one outraged citizen, that Mr. Sheriff would not get his vote at the next election - not if he knew hiroself. One of the prison officers came to the door to say that there were two clergymen waiting below who desired to talk and pray with the prisoner, and prepare him to meet the doom that was coming. "Tell them I have no need of their services," said Anderson, "but thank them heartily for their kindness. I should only be excited and irritated by them," he explained to Mr. Har- vard, "and they can do me no good. As for preparation, I am ready at any time." "There is one thing that I have waited to the last to speak about," said Mr. Harvard. "Would you leave word what disposition we are to make of your-body?" "Well, well," mused Anderson, smiling a little, and not in the least discomposed. "I thought I had remembered everything, but there I was wrong. There will be a body left, won't there?"He thought a few moments.  "Well, it makes little difference, but if you will be so kind, it might be placed by my parents' grave in Catherine. My agent there will attend to the interment." Mr. Harvard promised that this should be done. "Does Mrs. Haynes take this much to heart?" Anderson asked after a pause. "Very much, Albert. She loves you deeply." "Yes," replied Anderson, bowing his head, "I suppose she does." "Is there anything more you wish   done that has not been attended to?" asked the lawyer. "No. Not for myself. Sam will have St. George's Island to pay for his faithfulness. There hasn't been a truer friend at all times than that same boy." "The public bequests I have tried to give judiciously. Mrs. Haynes and Ella will have enough to keep them always from poverty. Miss LeMoyne must take her share for my sake, though she does not really need it. Those of my tenants who are to be given their houses. 'are all sober, honest men. Really, Mr. Harvard, there will be more joy than sorrow at my funeral."  "O, no," the lawyer replied. "He was sure there would not. They had all loved him, every one of them." "I don't know why they should," said Anderson, still watching the sky. "I was hasty and rather hard with some of them at times, I fear. I hope they will all forgive me, now, as I would them under the same circum- stances." Mr. Harvard said he was sure they would, only there was nothing to for- give.           . "I feel so at rest with all the world this morning," continued Anderson, "that I forgive everybody all the evil they have ever done me. There is a charmif in such a spring day as this, when nature is waking in beauty all about .us. I forgive all-even-the dark gentleman." Mr. Harvard murmured a little at this. "But for the dark gentleman," he said, "you would be standing un- fettered outside of these walls this in- stant. It would require more forgive- ness than I could muster, to forgive that man!"   The still rising sun overtopped the window-sill and cast a glory of light on Albert at this moment. It lit up his face and shed such a lustre upon his fair head, that the lawyer mar- velled. "In a few hours," cried the young man, rapturously, "I shall be even as you have said. I shall stand unfet- tered outside of these walls, beyond the reach of bonds or hangman's rope! O, Mr. Harvard! I can scarcely wait that hour!" He paused a moment, lost in the rapture of the thought, and then con- tinued: "Think of the crowd that will come here to-day, and pity me as I stand on the drop before them. Men of every religion, wh 'would give their all to know what lies beyond the nar- row river of death! And they will pity me! I, who shall know, before the sun is evenly above their heads, more than has been written by the wisest saint or prophet they are fol- lowing." "I understand," he added, a mo- ment after, "how men may cling to life and look with terror on a painful and ignominious death. \ But when one is as near the other side as I am, he becomes impatient at delay." There was no false religious enthu- siasm in his tone. It was merely the outhurst of a thoughtful mind, which loved no pursuit so well as that of knowledge. About 9 o'clock Anderson could see from the window, spectators enter- ing the yard by the gates, and one in particular called his close attention. It was a man on crutches, with black, curling hair, and dark complexion. This figure limped up the steps and into the office. "So," thought An-   derson, "he is determined to pursue me to the last." The Sheriff came up with the Jailor soon after, and he took farewell of Mr. Harvard in the cell, saying good- by as calmly as if he was only going for a short time. At the foot of the stairs the Jailor's little wife came, with weeping eyes, to see him. He was still as calm as ever, and suffered her in her violent grief to kiss his cheek without a sign. The Jailor also parted from him here, saying in a broken voice: "Good-by, my boy, good-by.  It was my duty to put on the rope, but O Lord! I couldn't do it for you. Good-by." Out in the jail yard four hundred and fifty men, are waiting for the con- lemned. They are ranged about on both sides, of the yard, leaving an open passageway for the prisoner to reach the gallows between them. All are talking in low whispers, of the act which is to come. Newspaper report- ers occupy tables near the gallows, and sit with their watches open, ready to write down the exact minute when each part of- the piece takes place. Some of them have never attended an execution before, and sit a little uneasy, wishing they were away. Others have seen several, and are talking among themselves about them. "The fall is full six feet, "says one, "and he will hang forty minutes. I hear the reason for this is that the last man this Sheriff- executed didn't hang long enough.  They sent his body to a college for dissection, I be- lieve, and when the students took out the heart, they found it still pulsating. I asked the Sheriff if he thought the man could have been dead, and he re- plied, "Well, he was before they had done with him."   The sarcasm of the Sheriff is fully appreciated, when a whisper goes round, "He is coming," and Albert Anderson walks, unsupported by the officers who accompany' him, with a firm tread, calmly as ever, through the crowd, up the stairs, and takes his seat in the chair on the drop. -Now! Attention everybody to the ceremonies which end with a drawn bolt, a clang,' a tightened rope, and a human soul gone out by violent means from among you! This is the carnival of the Monster Law 1 If there are several hundred men here who are very uneasy at this mo- ment, there are certainly two others whose excitement rises to a pitch un- equalled by their fellows. They are neither of them the High Sheriff; he goes about his work as he has. about half a dozen executions before it; he is not responsible for this act- that belongs to the Governor, whose name is signed to the warrant in his hand which says, "We therefore command you." They are neither of them the deputy sheriffs, who occupy their time during the reading of the warrant by buckling straps tightly about the con- demned man's limbs, lest he should struggle for his life. Neither is one of them Anderson, who is the least ruffled of all .that audience, and looks calmly as ever about the crowd to take his last glimpse of them in the body. But one of them is the lame gentleman, who at this moment would give worlds to undo his crime, so ter- row-stricken has his conscience made him. And the other is a fine-looking, youngish man, *rho walks up and down nervously, with his right hand in his left breast-pocket. Quiet, gentlemen I The High Sheriff will read the death warrant.   For when he is called-as he may be -to give an account of this at a Higher Bar, he will wish to point to the Detectives, the Judges, the Jury- men, the. Governor and Council, a id say, "The sinis their's, if there be sin. I am guiltless." What if the Detec- tives,- the Judges, the Jurymen, the Governor and Council should plead in like manner, and lay the sin on his shoulders! Never mind now. Quiet, and let the reading proceed. "To the High Sherzi of our County of Prince, Greeting: "Whereas, at a term of our Su- preme Judicial Court, holden at this City, within and for the County of Prince, on the I8th day of December, in the year one thousand, eight hun- dred and fifty-six, JAMES ALBERT AN- DERSON of this City, in said County, was convicted of the crime of murder in the first degree :- "And whereas, at a term of our said Court begun and holden at this City, in this County, on the i8th day of December, in the year one thou- sand, eight hundred and fifty-six, the said James Albert Anderson was, by out said Court, then and there sen- tenced for said crime to suffer the pains of death, by being hanged by the neck until he shall be dead; all of which, by' an exemplification of the record of said Court, which we have caused to be hereunto annexed, doth to us fully appear :- "WE THEREFORE COMMAND YOU, that upon Friday, the IIth day of April, in the year one thousand, eight hundred and fifty-seven, between the hours of 9 and I2 o'clock before noon of the same day, within the walls of the prison of said County, or wi'hin the enclosed yard of the prison of said County of Prince, agreeably to the provisions of the General Stat-' utes, you cause execution of the said sentence of our said Court in all respects to be done and performed upon him, the said James Albert An-, derson, for which this shall be your sufficient warrant.  .           ,   "Whereof fail not at your peril, and make return of this warrant, with your doings thereon, into our Secreta- ry's office, within twenty days pfter you shall have executed the same. Witness, His Excellency, Franklin L. Smith, our Governor, with the advice and consent of our Council, and our seal hereunto affixed, at this City, the third day of March, in the year one thousand, eight hundred and fifty-seven, and in the eighty-first year of the Independence of the United States of America. "By His Excellency the Governor. With the advice and consent of the Council. "ROBERT HAWKINS, "Secretary of the State." In a steady, solemn tone, the High Sheriff reads this warrant, while every- body present feels that-the yard is a very close place, and wonders what has become of the air which vanished. so suddenly. 'They stand uneasily watching each other, and nervously watching Him-the condemned man on the scaffold before them. His very calmness adds to their oppressed feel- ings, and they question in their hearts whether, after all, this is the best use that handsome form and finely-wrought mind can be put to. Each is sure of one thing-that he would  not stand in the High Sheriff's place to- day for any worldly consideration which could be named. One of the under sheriffs takes the hanging rope and fits it tightly around Anderson's neck. Better hurt him a little more now, that it may be easier by-and-by, says the Sheriff to himself. Anderson never winces under the try- ing ordeal, but merely looks up and says, smiling, "That will do very well." You may say he did not realize his position. I tell you he did, fully, more than most men would; and had pre- pared himself to meet it! When that rope was placed thus 9   tightly around the prisoner's neck, the youngish looking man who was walk- ing nervously about with his right hand in his left breast-pocket, stopped, breathing hard, and seemed to wrestle with himself a moment. When each strap was buckled around the prison- er's arms or legs, this man would stop again, with the perspiration gathering in beads on his face, and watching the proceedings with intense anxiety. He would always recommence his walking immediately after; but he did not get at any time more than a few yards from the scaffold. The dark gentleman is striving des- perately to look composed, though the feelings raging in his breast almost suffice to overpower him. He has hated this Anderson -hated him for years - hated him more and more as time went by --hates him now 1 But he is not quite prepared for this. It is so much more horrible than he ex- pected. The blood which is to be shed here is innocent blood, and is to be offered up by his own wicked per- jury. It is true he has never felt at ease when this man was free, and would tremble at this moment, were he to step down from the scaffold with. his limbs unshackled. But still, when that rope is fitted to his enemy's neck,. the dark gentleman feels as if his own. hands were doing the murder, and, shudders at the horror of the deed. The Sheriff reads the closing words,. "Robert Hawkins,- Secretary of the State," and folds up his document circumstantially. The prisoner is re- quested to rise. Everybody's heart is in his mouth. Anderson stands as quiet as ever. The under sheriff who placed the rope takes the black cap, and comes to put it over the. young man's face. Thank youl Oh! thank you, for   X  -   that, Mr. Sheriff! Our dear boy has done bravely, and is ready to die as he has borne the trial thus far-calmly and quietly-but when he shall feel the pain of the tightened rope about his fair young neck, and the death throes are on him, he may unconsci- ously contract his features in the agony. Thank you, then, for your black cap; for when it goes over his face, those who saw him will only remember the smile-the brightness, which covered it. Thank you, thank you, Mr. Sheriff. There are only a score of words more to be said: "'And now, by vir- tue of this warrant, I proceed to execute the sentence of the law." But before they have been uttered, the youngish looking man's excitement becomes too much for him to bear. He rushes up the scaffold stairs, and Catching the High Sheriff's arm, draws him back from the fatal spring which his foot was about to touch. His right hand comes out of the left breast pocket, and in it is a legal document which the High Sheriff scans intently. Then that officer steps to the front of the platform to address the excited throng. "The execution will notproceed." Why?'-from a 4undred throats. "The man is pardoned." "Pardoned?" "YES, AND' PROVED INNOCENT!" There is a moment of stupid won- -der, and then the cheers break forth.  'The youngish looking man goes for- ward and addresses a few words to 1 :the crowd. As he closes, some one ; cries "Three cheers' for Franklin L. ] Smith, ^our Govenor," and they are I given with a will. Albert Anderson sits down again in n ;his chair, moved now a little off of  ;that trap door, through which he was m   s to fall into the other world. The s sheriffs take off the rough- rope and 7 smooth down, almost tenderly, the I long, brown hair which had come t so near covering a dead man's head. i Anderson was strong enough before, - but he is faint, now. The rush of thought is overpowering him. The Governor comes and bends over him. "Mr. Anderson, do .you know me?' "Yes," replies Albert, under his breath. "You were my companion on that Southern voyage." "Did you know I was the Gov- ernor?" "No," is the reply.  ' I never thought of it." "Well, it so happens that we are brought together again," replied the Governor, not yet over his excitement. "What will you do .now, Mr. Ander- son. My carriage is waiting outside, and I should be pleased to place it:at your service." Albert hears him, but it is so strange. Shall he ride in the car- riage of this man, over whose signa- ture he. heard read ten minutes since, "We therefore command you that you cause. execution of the said sen- tence in all respects to be done and performed upon him, the said James Albert Anderson?" "Am I free?" he asks. "Free as the air." "Yes, then," he replies. "I will go with you." Even in this hour of confused thought, he does not forget those who are suffering sorrow for his sake. Messengers are called to take to Mr. Harvard, to Mabel and the rest, the words, "Anderson is pardoned, but needs quiet for a day or two. He will see you all as soon as he is quite well again."   Through the dense throng that crowded'the street outside of the Jail yard, Anderson made his way to the carriage. Men surrounded him in this time of his vindication, cheering him for his release, who had yelled for his blood when he rode in that other carriage guarded by the officers, the day he first entered Prince County Jail. , These men were earnest then, and they are earnest now. And just here is one of the strangest lessons of this strange life of ours. As the multitude surrounded the carriage, Anderson's name was called over and over again, until he was obliged to step out a moment where all could see him. The cheers were then renewed, to which he responded only by a "Thank you, my friends," and then re-entered the carriage. Af- tor they had driven away from the crowd; the Governor began an expla- nation. "You will remember, Mr. Ander- son, the conversation we had on the ship when we met that night on the ocean, about the death penalty and the fear of death. Your opinion in- terested me greatly, and when you were arrested last fall for this crime, I waited with great interest to see how you would carry out the principles you detailed to me at that time. In November I was elected Governor, and after that your life lay in my hands. The jury had found you guilty of murder, the Judge had pro- nounced your sentence, and much as I desired personally to save you, I could not, in my official capacity, give up to those feelings. I heard from day to day of your condition, and was led to believe that you would die as bravely as you had borne your trial and im- prisonment. Last night a letter was   brought me at a late hour, which, as it seemed unimportant, I laid aside till morning. When I came to read it, my surprise may be imagined, to see in it the means of saving your life hon- orably. It was signed by Henry John- son, who lay in his berth on board of a Cuban vessel, and begged me to pardon you if it were not too late. Losing no time I rode to the wharves, went aboard the ship, saw the boy "Then he is alive!" gasped An- derson. "Alive, and will come ashore to- day, though rather ill from his long sea voyage." The young man breathed a heart- felt "Thank God." "Saw the boy, as I was saying," continued the Governor, "received full proofs of his identity, and rode with all speed to the Jail. My first thought was to send in your pardon at once. But when I remembered our talk on the ship, I resolved to try your courage to the last, and stood ready at the gallows-foot to interfere before you were quite swung off. I endured the most intense suffering during the whole affair, but your sub- lime courage has well repaid me. Mr. Anderson, I knwotI have done wrong, and I ask your forgiveness. But promise me you will say nothing about. this to any one, and only remember it as "The Governor's Experiment." Anderson was in no mood to cen- sure his companion, though he felt he had trifled too far with a human life. And he said simply: "I forgive you, Mr. Smith, from the bottom of my heart." By this time the carriage had arrived at Pearl street. Anderson sprang out and ran up the steps and into the house without delay.   One of the servants saw him coming, -and hurried away screaming to inform the others "that the Master's ghost had come, sure, with his dark brown hair all hanging down his shoulders!" The young man hastened to Mrs. Haynes's room, and rushed in. The widow was sitting in her chair, rocking backward and forward, and crying to herself, when the apparition entered. She heard the well-known voice cry, "It is I, mother, free and innocent;" then she fell, unable to bear the shock, and fainted away. But joy does not kill, and soon the good woman was able to listen to the wonderful story of the pardon when the rope was round her boy's neck. She was able to clasp him in her arms again, and bless Heaven for having saved his life. He was quite weak and tired yet, however, and it was thought best by all that he should keep in the quiet of his room for a fe w days After these few days were past, Al- bert sent messages to all of his true friends to come and see him at Pearl street. Mr. Harvard came, and nearly made a woman of himself -to use his own expression -by crying over his saved client. The quadroon and and his wife came, nearly frantic with joy at Anderson's pardon ; Mr. Jenkins came, with his bandana, and renewed his statements that he never did -he was sure he never did. And thenthere came another, the last but not the least true friend - Mabel Le Moyne. Anderson was glad to see Mabel, very glad to see her. ,If he had known as much as the Jailor's little wife sur- mised when she lifted the poor girl from the guardroom floor that even- ing, he might have appreciated her de- votion to him even more that he did. They passed an afternoon pleasantly   together, and when it came time for Mabel to go, Albert said in the old way: "You will come to-morrow?" She smiled and said they were not in prison now. "No," he replied, "but you must come often just the same, and I shall ask leave to visit you, also." "Ah!" thought Mabel as she rode home, "If he were only mine forever, there would be no 'to-morrow' then." CHAPTER II. HS SIN COMES HOME TO HM. So Harry Johnson was not dead, after all. He did come back, though both Anderson and the dark gentle- man predicted he would not. The great ship Anderson noticed tacking about in the bay, the night before his execution was to take place, bore into the harbor' the freight which saved him from the doom prepared by the monster Law. The jury was proved to be wrong, the Governor and Coun- cil wrong, even the great agent of popular opini c,--the newspaper; all wrong. People were heard to remark that they had doubted all the while whether Anderson' was really guilty, and were rejoiced to find their opin- ions correct. But one thing remained true. They had been wrong, all wrong, and had nearly sacrificed a life of more than ordinary value be- fore they were set 'right. They were wrong, as they have been fifty-thousand times before, and probably will be again and again. Human wisdom is exceedingly fallible, and such things must go on until we all accept the in- junction of the Master, 4 Judge not, that ye be not judged!" How came Harry alive, and how   did it happen that his bones were not lying under the wreck of the ship Tuscarora, as Mr. Hawley believed when he inaugurated his plot against Anderson's life? The answer comes plainly enough. When the ship to which the dark gentleman had con- signed him, went down in the storm which overtook her, Harry clung to a floating mast until he was' rescued by a Cuban vessel. Proceeding to Hav- ana, he obtained employment as book- keeper in an American house, where he remained until he saw the adver- tisements calling on him to return home. Although Harry's'return had been the means of saving Anderson's life, the lad was yet averse to meeting his former partner after what had passed; and as. soon as he was considered well enough to leave the ship, he took lodgings at an obscure hotel, where he intended to remain until he could decide what course he should take next. After a few days of rest, he concluded to pay a visit to Hillsdale, his former home, he having been a tavern-boy at the Hillsdale House years before, and entertained the clos- est feelings of love for the landlord's daughter. He was in some doubt as to how he would be received by Mr. Slader or his daughter, after the dis- grace into which he had fallen. He was set -at ease at once, however, when Sallie ran to meet him with ex- pressions of glad welcome, and he saw that to her, he was only a very dear friend brought to life after months of loss. His faults were for- gotten in the joy that he was still among the living. Harry's heart was warmed with new love for the girl, who-seemed to him the'only friend he could claim on earth. While he was recounting his adventures and narrow , s   escape from death, his eye caught a gleam reflected from the hand he held, which attracted him at once. "What, Sallie!" said he, ' Have you become engaged to another since I have been away?" "No indeed, Harry! What do you mean?." said Sallie, in astonish ment. "The ring on your finger-whose present was that?" She comprehended, and answered his blank looks with a merry laugh. "O, you jealous boy, that was given me' by a lady who stopped here at the hotel last autumn." And here she proceeded to narrate the strange story, giving a description of the lady and her child. As she proceeded, Harry grew deeply interested, asking so many questions that Salhe was much surprised. It was all plain to Harry then. With this news he could get an inter- view with Anderson. As soon as pos- sible he rang the Pearl street bell, and though abashed in manner, and halt- ing in speech, he met his former part- ner, and told him what he had learned, In returni Anderson took him kindly by the hand, and offered uncondition- ally to restore him to his old place in the new warehouse. "With the lessons of the past for a guide, " said Albert, "we may always succeed better in the future. Shall it be as I have said,. Harry?" Harry was completely overcome at this generous proposal, and gathered courage to deny in formal terms that he had been guilty of the incendi- arism, stating his belief that Fred Hawley, the dark gentleman, had done the deed. Anderson recognized the description of the plotter, and told Harry how he could not fix the man in his memory, though he was   sure he  had  met him  before. The reunited partners in the house of J. A. Anderson & Co. puzzled over this problem for some time, arid then, with brighter hearts than they had known of late, bade adieu to each other for the time. Early the next morning, after a nearly sleepless night, Anderson set out for Hillsdale. Disdaining, as he had often before, a carriage of any kind, he sprang into the saddle, which was upon the back of a strong road- ster, and after assuring Mrs. Haynes that he would write soon the result of 'his researches, and cautioning her not to build too strong hopes on his success, he sat off on his long ride. He was not in the mood to spare his. horse, and a few hours' hard riding brought him in sight of the Hillsdale House. There was the window in which he iad seen the apparition of a woman with golden curls, holding a baby in her lap. It must have been Ella, with one of the neighbor's chil- dren. There was the yard where he walked into the house, so tired and dusty, with his old, clothes and gray beard. There was the barn in which he hid while the landlord and his crew were chasing up and down the road like devils to find him; from which he had gone out after dark in a new disguise, and helped the detec- tives in their search the next day. As he looked at the open window where his darling had been. seen, Albert knew well that had he believed it pos- sible she' were really there, and that the vision was not unreal like the one he saw in the ocean, he would have rushed to her room and revealed him- self, regardless of the price set on his head. Then Samuel Slader would have been richer by five thousand dol- lars But. Anderson would have had        ,   a month more of imprisonment, and he had had quite enough as it was. Sallie Slader did not need Mr. An- derson's introduction of. himself to know it was he. She had been too often the pleased listener to Harry's enthusiastic portraits of his friend to doubt that the handsome, 'open-faced young man with dark brown hair was any other than the young author. She received him, therefore, with the ut- nrost cordiality, and they were soon seated in the old-fashioned parlor and engaged in conversation about the matter which brought them together. After introducing the subject, Sallie proceeded to relate what she knew of Ella during her stay. "She came here on the railroad coach one evening in May," said the girl, " and gave the name of Mrs. Ella Hastings. She kept to her room nearly all the time, and we used to take our meals alone together, as she was very careful to avioid company. Thus she lived withy us quietly, paying her board from a sum of money she brought with her, and which she often spoke of as having been given her at different times by "Bert." That was the only name I could ever make her apply to you. On the second day of August, her baby was born." If she had laid on his bare flesh an iron rod, red from the furnace, he could not have writhed under it more than he did under those words. He gasped for breath until she was alarmed for his life. He clasped his hands Iover the heart which almost ceased to beat. He pressed his fore- head, and covered his eyes with his hands to shut out the horrible sight which came to his bewildered brain. The agony of keen remorse was on him now. The vision of the girl "which rose out of the sea, and those ringing ,   words ." Her and her heirs forever, " came crushing upon his brain like some heavy beam, stupefying and blinding him with excruciating pain. He clenched his hands in his hair and tore it out in bunches. Such an ex- hibition of ungovernable feeling, the girl had never seen before. When he was a little recovered, he suddenly turned upon her and grasped her arm so tightly that it made her scream. "What was it you said?" he artic- ulated. "Was it that- a - child- was - born?" "Why, sir, I supposed Harry told you that. Did he say nothing about it?" said Sallie, becoming frightened. "zThenz it is true! O, God I it is true /" Back came the crushing weight on his brain, crushing and blinding him as before. Again was the red hot iron laid on him, and again he writhed under the torment. "Did she ever curse me?" he asked, shutting his teeth ,tightly to- gether. "O, no, sir! Never. She always blessed you. She often spoke of you as'darling' or'dear Bert.' She loved you, sir, as few men are loved." Unconsciously the girl had heated the iron ten times hotter than before. Feeling his wrong to Ella as Albert Anderson did, it would have been a relief to know she had' cursed him. ,But she loved him through all 1 O! The iron burned fiercely, then! "Was she very ill?" he: asked after a long pause. "Ah, yes sir, we feared at one time she was dying. It was two months before she was able to have the care of the child."   Albert caught his breath at the word "dying." Had he, then, come so near losing her? "The child lived, then?" "Yes. It was very well all of the time they remained here. It must be eleven months old now. A very fine boy indeed." "Hah! A  boy? Did Ella name it?" "She had not formally given it a name when she left here, but always called it 'Bert's baby.' She lavished all her time and love on the child, which was a Sweet little thing, well worth her attention." Sallie proceeded from this to give Anderson a history of all Ella's stay in the hotel; how she had kept his name secret through everything lest he should be disgraced; how she had hurried away in the stagecoach the morning after he was seen in Hills- dale; what she had said regarding her love for Bert, and of her past life with him; and how she had declared her willingness to live and die in poverty if need be, so that he come not to evil. When she finished, Anderson asked, in a hushed voice, whether Ella left anything at the hotel which he could have to take with him. "Only this ring," said Sallie. ," It was by this that Harry learned the story. He saw it on my finger, and his jealousy was aroused at once." Albert took the ring-and put it on his own finger. He told the girl she should have one in place of it, double its value, but this one he must keep for himself. He kissed it lovingly as he said this. "Did you say Harry was jealous of the ring?" asked An- derson, in a moment. "Ah," he con- tinued, seeing her blushes, "He loves you, then?"   "We are very good friends, sir," Sallie stammered. "We have known each other for many years." "Yes," replied Anderson, "and you are in love, too. And you shall be married. I will talk with Harry of this. He is now once more my part- ner, and I shall have some influence with him. Harry is a good boy and I believe you will make a wife worthy of him." "Have you really forgiven Harry, sir?" "Forgiven him? yes, and restored him to his old position as manager of the business." "What words can I find'to thank you!" cried Sallie, with warmth. "No words are necessary," said Anderson. "Make him a good wife, and that will be enough. And if you are ever tempted to evil, look at me,- broken down under the weight of one sin, suffering more this day than when standing upon the gallows waiting for death, and rather put your right hand into the fire than yield to it!" They went out to the gate where the young man remounted his horse. Sal- lie tried to persuade him to partake of some refreshment, but he said he could eat nothing. Waiving a sad good-by, he rode out of her sight, toward the railroad station.. Why should we follow him through those two weeks of search which brought forth nothing? Why need we detail the numberless times he fancied he had really found a clue, only to prove it wrong on investigation? Wo- men with children in their arms were not so scarce as to excite the attention of everybody. There were scores of golden-haired girls in every county, who rode upon the railroad trains with their children. But he always found them at last, gathered round their own   firesides, with husbands to love and bless them. The one girl he was searching for was wanting. Coming back to the city, he recount- ed the failure of his missi6n to Mrs. Haynes, in as brave a manner as he could command. He told her also of the child's birth, which news she re- ceived much more calmly than he had expected. The widow saw the great change which had come over the young man, and resolved to give up to her sorrows as little as possible in her presence. One evening, as she was sitting with Albert in his study-room, a servant brought up a card on which was writ- ten the name, strange to both of them, "Felix McCabe." Anderson went down to the parlor to see Mr. McCabe, and begged him to state his business with him. Mc- Cabe proceeded to do so, accordingly, with his usual politeness. "You are wishing to learn the whereabouts of a young lady, Miss Ella Hastings, I believe?" "I am, indeed," said Anderson. "What do you know of her?" "Everything, Your Honor, every- thing," replied Mr. McCabe. "But it is best to be business-like, as you, who have been in business know very well. I naturally have no personal interest in coming here to give you informa- tion. No, sir, I came here to earn some money, and if you want my in- formation you must pay for it. My terms are one hundred dollars down, and another hundred if you find the lady."' "No tricks, with me, my friend," said Anderson, counting out the sum asked for. "Say what you have to say, and I will give you your price when you have done." "Fair enough," said Felix. "Well,   then, I saw Miss Ella in February at the house of a Mrs. Wilson, on the high street in Kingston. I will tell you who was with her there, if you will agree not to mention my name in the matter. For that would get me into trouble." Anderson willingly promised, and Felix continued: "She was riding out with a man named Hawley---" "The dark gentleman again! Well, go on." "She had her child in her arms. I inquired about her, and from what I heard I think he is trying to induce her to marry him, but has little prospect of success. "You are sure they are not married already?" "I am sure they were not at that time. -But this Hawley is a persistent fellow, and will try hard to carry his ends." "Is this all you have to tell me?" "Yes, sir, that is all," said McCabe; and he soon after withdrew. As he passed down the steps, he muttered; "Ah, Mr. Fred Hawley, I'll be even with you now for treating me like a dog after I had finished your dirty work." So there was a motive beside mak- ing money which actuated Felix McCabe. And thus it came about that he was able to strike one of the first blows which were to stagger the dark gentleman. The next morning Anderson took an early train for Kingston. - On re- flection he had decided to conceal his mission from Mrs. Haynes, until- he was sure it would prove successful. This was, without doubt, the wisest course, as there is nothing so painful as hope awakened, only to be dashed again to the earth.   At Kingston, Anderson soon ob- tained directions how to find Mrs. Wilson's house. As he approached it, he looked longingly up to the win- dows lest a familiar face might appear there, but he saw none. The hard- visaged landlady answered his ring, and knew the instant her eyes fell on the young man, who he was and what he wanted. "Is Miss Hastings living with you now?"Anderson asked, and waited in suspense for her answer. It came to carry him again beyond hope. "She left more than a month ago." "I am her guardian. Can you tell me in which direction she went." ' I cannot," said Mrs. Wilson, com- posedly. "She went away one night in what I call a highly improper man- -ner, stealing out quietly with her child, when we were asleep. I have never seen or heard from her since, and if she is the sort of person I have reason to fear, I have no wish to see her or anyone belonging to her. Is there anything more you want, sir?" "No, I thank you."  Anderson turned away from the door faintly. His sun had gone behind a cloud once more. At the depot he renewed his inquiries, and along the railroad line. But he could leIrn nothing, and heart- sick,. he again gave up the search. After leaving Kingston he went to the Hillsdale station, and procuring a horse, started for home 'by the road which led by the Hillsdale house. There he stopped several hours to rest, and informed Sallie how he had failed again in his search for Ella. The girl said what she could to comfort him, and after a while he set off for the city. Everybody knows that the long hill just after you leave Hillsdale, going to the city, is one of the longest and   most tedious hills in the county. Down its steep descent, Anderson rode slowly, fearing to hasten his horse lest he should stumble. On either side of the rode the new mown' hay gave forth a sweet scent, while the sun, waning into the west, threw its hot beams over the face of Nature, lulling her to sleep. Men, working in the fields, looked up with curious glances at the young rider who had not to toil like them for his bread. An old farmer and his wife sat on one porch in the shade, resting from the heat, and saluted Anderson with a pleasant "Good-morrow," as he pass- ed. After this he rode through the valley between the hills, where the cool woods covered both sides of the way, ahd the babbling brooks ran sparkling over the stones. A rustling in the branches drew his attention, and the figure of a young woman came out; with a basket on her arm; with straw hat hanging by a ribbon down herback; with black hair negligently lying about her shoulders; with large, dark eyes that looked up suddenly, stood trembling in their orbits a min- ute, at sight of Anderson, until their owner cried out in fear, and ran back into the woods as fast as she could run. Anderson stood transfixed. Who was she? In an instant, though she was some- what changed, he knew she was the dark lady who had beguiled Ella from him! CHAPTER THREE. FATE, GOD OR CHANCE IS DRAWING HM. At his books, or riding about the city and suburbs, Anderson spent the rest of that summer. Among the few people on whom he called was Mabel   Le Moyne and her aunt, Mrs. Davis. When one pleasant autumn day was nearing its close, he sat with Mabel on the broad piazza of the Davis Mansion, carrying on a brisk conver- sation. "What are you doing all these days, Mr. Anderson," she inquired, "when I never see you for so long a time together?" "Writing. Writing most of the time," Anderson replied. "I am pretty busy just now, trying to make up for the days I lost when I lay sick in the jail." Mabel frowned prettily and shook her head. "So you consider those days as loss, Mr. Anderson?" "Loss in one sense," he explained, seeing the construction she had put upon his words. "But gain in another and better sense, which much more than equals the first. I lost a little time, which might have been used in work, and I gained a friend whom I prize highly. There. Does that satisfy you, Miss Faultfinder?" She laughed merrily. "Yes, that will do very well indeed. But I have a proposal to make, which you must hear this evening, and as I see you glancing toward your horse, impatient to leave me, I will proceed at once. I (and my aunt), have con- cluded that you are working too hard, and ought to take a vacation, a rest, a few weeks of change and recreation. And we have fixed a plan between us, which will suit your case nicely." "Indeed!" said Anderson. "You have it all arranged then, and I. am to be allowed no word in the matter whatever? Well, let us hear your plan, and know our fate at once. This suspense is dreadful." Mabel laughed again, and put her   little hand over his mouth to stop him. "How dare you make fun of my plans?" she asked, with mock seri- ousness. "You are a bad boy to interrupt when older people are talk- ing to you. Now be quiet and hear me out.  Every winter, you know, my aunt and I go out to our Louis- iana home at Longwood, where my papa used to live. It is a beautiful place, with plenty of shade and fishing--and -all such things, you know, that young gentlemen are fond of. We intend to start from here in a few weeks now, and must insist---" He was about to make some reply, when the little hand was clapped over his mouth again. "Must insist on your accompany- ing us, either for the entire winter, or, if that is impossible, for as long a time as you can spare. You need the rest and the change of scene-I know you do--and there the case is' decided. I am judge and jury, you are tried and sentenced, and from this decision there is no appeal." As Mabel finished, she removed the little hand from Albert's mouth, when he took it up gallantly, and kissed it. "My dear Miss Mabel, I fear I cannot accept of your kind invitation. My writing is imperative, and cannot be put by at my liking, as you seem to think." "Well, then, if you must write, I will so. far commute your sentence, as tofillow you to take it with you, and devote part of your time. to it while you are gone." Mabel was so earnest, and waited his reply so anxiously, "that' Albert could hardly bring himself to give a direct refusal. "I am afraid I should do very   little writing with your bright eyes watching near by," he said, shaking his head. "O, if that is all, I will give you a room to yourself, and I promise not to disturb you when you are at work. Now are you satisfied, I wonder." Her arguments were irresistable, but lest they should be wanting in ef- fect, she continued to pour into his ears details of the loveliness of Long- wood. The beauty of its scenery, the healthfulness of its climate, and other inducements without limit. "You will not be obliged to stay one precious minute after you become tired of Longwood, Mr. Anderson. So vou will run very little risk indeed. You really require a change of scene, -you may laugh, but it is true-and I wish you to g6 very much; that is, I think it will be the best thing for you. Come, now'! Promise me." The young man considered briefly. "After such an imperative demand as you make, Miss .Mabel," he said, "I hardly see how I -could escape compliance with your request, were I so disposed. Perhaps you are right. I think, myself that a few days-" "Weeks, Mr. Anderson! Weeks, or months!" "Very well, then, weeks," said Albert, doubtfully. "A few weeks of change could do me no harm. Since you are so kind to invite me to spend them in Longwood, I -don't- know -but I will accept." "O, then you will go l" cried Mabel," in a tone which showed how happy his answer had made her. "Ah, there is my aunt! Mrs. Davis  Mrs. Davis! Mr. Anderson is here. Please come in a minute." Mrs. Davis rustled her black silk into the room, and received Anderson as cordially as her reserved nature   would allow her to receive anybody. He was Mabel's friend, Mabel wanted him there, Mabel had said she wished him to accompany them South, and the matter was settled, of course. Mrs. Davis had gradually become, during her later years, a sort of echo to Mabel's desires and opinions. What Mabel wanted, must be right. What Mabel thought must be true. Mrs. Davis was fully prepared on all occasions to express her approbation of Mabel's-acts in advance, and learn what they were afterwards. "Auntie," said Mabel, "Mr. An- derson has accepted our invitation, and will go with us to Longwood." "I trust you will enjoy your visit to the South," murmured Mrs. Davis, U and return better fitted for the dis- charge of your multiplied duties." This was an unusual long speech for her to make, and Mabel looked at her in some astonishment. Anderson thanked the lady, and expressed a similar hope. After which, her con- versational powers being exhausted, Mrs. Davis graciously bowed herself out of the room. And soon after, Anderson departed for Pearl street, leaving a very happy girl behind him, watching his retiring figure, until, as he turned a bend in the road, he stood in his stirrups and lifted his cap to her. Mabel answered with her hand- kerchief, and stood leaning on the gate, looking in the direction he had gone, a long time. She finally became aware that rain drops were falling on her, and that she was standing alone under a very black sky, with no light to be seen except that which streamed from the parlor windows. Before Albert went, she was sure the sky had been clear enough. While he was by her, there was no darkness near. How it all changed, when he disap-   peared around the road turning! She walked back into the house, with her heart beating as of old. Ah, Mabel, Mabel.! When Anderson informed Mrs. Haynes that he should leave the city on a short vacation, she was glad for his sake; and when he told her where he was going, and with whom - she acquiesced without outward sign of dislike. But within' her heart the good woman would have wished it otherwise. She thought she saw here a possible rival to Ella, and loving' her daughter so deeply, she feared the consequences which might ensue from a too close friendship between Anderson and Mabel. Still she said nothing, feeling that it would be inad- visable to do so, and tried to watch and wait patiently. That Mabel loved Albert was but too evident, but that he could so far forget his duty to Ella as to yield to a new love, Mrs. Haynes would not believe. She only hoped and prayed for a speedy restora- tion of her long-lost child to the arms from which a hard fate had taken her, to give both a dearly-bought lesson of life. Thus she lived on, and waited. just as the approaching winter began to shadow its coming by throwing a chill into the evenings, Anderson departed for Longwood with 'Mrs. Davis and Mabel.. The climate of the section Was almost exactly the same as that of his birth-place, Cath- erine, and Albert enjoyed his change from the first. A new color came into his cheek, a new buoyancy into his step, and he was forced to ac- knowledge that Mabel's prophecy was a true one. He rode horseback over the estates and adjacent roads, every evening, and Mabel, being a supurb horse- woman, kept at his side, even at the   fastest gallop he could spur, his ani- mal to undertake. There is no sport the superior of this to give a quick motion to the blood, and' throw a healthy vigor over the frame:; none the less so either, when races are fre- quent between the riders, with the accompanying jollity and excitement. One evening, when they were riding thus, Anderson said: ' Few women can ride a horse as you can, Miss Mabel. You seem to have no fear, whatever." "Why should I?" she answered, laughing. "I am as much at home in this saddle as if I were sitting on the house veranda." "You must have had considerable experience, Miss Mabel." Yes, indeed! When I was hardly tall enough to reach a pony's head with my hand, papa used to put me on their backs, and teach me how to ,ride. When I was seven years old, I could ride with any of them. I should not know how to pass an evening now, without a ride." "And when I was less than seven," said Anderson, "my father used to take me to ride with him, on a horse as large as his own. How long ago that seems! How little of life I knew then, and -for years after! Twenty years ago, Mabel - " He stopped because she laid her gloved hand on his arm. The action was impulsive, and the hand was taken away as quickly as it came there. He knew what it meant, and was sorry; for he had awakened a new hope in her heart which he had not meant to do.  He had never called her "Mabel,"- before. Without finishing his sentence, An- derson proposed that theyride back to the house, and they walked their horses along'under the trees together.   Each knew that a chord had been struck in the other's -heart which awakened old remembrances too prec- ious to be disturbed. At the house the negro servants took the horses, and the riders sought their own cham- bers. Mabel had been true to her prom- ise not to disturb Albert at his hours of labor, for nearly a week, when one day she came to his room, and asked admission. He looked a little sur- prised as he opened the door, to see her' there, and asked her if she would come in a while. "O yes, Mr. Anderson," said she. "I am lonesome enough to die down stairs. Auntie has gone away in the carriage to call on some of her friends, and if you will let me come in, and sit down here, I will be very quiet, and not disturb you a bit." "Very well," he said, "you shall come in, but I must hold you to your word. You may take a seat where you please, and I will go on with my writing as though you were not here." This satisfied Mabel, and she took a seat by one of the windows, where she could see Anderson at his writing. How handsome she thought him, in his dressing gown and slippers, with his clear, earnest eyes, finely cut fea- tures, and long, brown hair, hanging in such heavy masses over the page he was working upon!  How like lightning his pen flew over the page, leaving its track of characters behind itin those bdd black lines! What could he be writing about to-day? How much she would like to know l Her woman's curiosity would allow her no rest after this until she did know what he was writing about. She waited until he came to the end of a paragraph, ard held his pen   poised, fresh-dipped in the ink,--for another commencement. "Mr. Anderson?" He looked up, with a curious smile playing about his mouth, as if to say "I thought as much," but only answer- ed: "Well?" "If you would tell me what you ate writing about, I should not be so lone- some. I could think about it then, as well as you." "I am writing the Second Part of my Story of the Prisoner."  "It is based on your own experi- ence, isn't it?" "Partly." "How far have you written, now?" "To where he was lying sick in his cell," replied Anderson, soberly. "Did he have a nurse to care for him?" faltered Mabel, feeling that she was treading on dangerous ground. "He did," said Albert, "and a very good one." "A young lady?" "A young lady." He answered her so calmly, that Mabel felt a new strength cominjg, and she proceeded to ask yet more. How she ever gained courage to do it was a mystery, but it came. "Have you the rest of the book fully planned in your mind?" she asked. "Nearly so," said Albert, laying down his pen and turning his chair towards her. "And this prisoner," said Mabel, averting her gaze from his face, and looking out of the open window, "was he hung upon the gallows?" "No, he was pardoned at the last moment, and proved innocent." "And did he ever remember his nurse, after he was released?"   "O, yes, they lived the best of friends." Mabels courage was going, but she found courage to ask desperately: "Never more than that, never more more than friends?" "Never/" cried Albert.  "Why should they?" "I fear you are a poor novelist, Mr. Anderson," stammered Mabel, faintly. "Did not this girl love this prisoner?" "He did not believe it, Miss Ma- bel. It was only sympathy for him, and not love, which she felt." Mabel drew a long breath. "Don't you believe it, Mr. Ander- son. The girl loved him truly." Albert looked astonished. "If that be so," said he, "it is a pity, and I am heartily sorry for both of them. The prisoner told his kind nurse a few chapters back to be con- tent with sympathy, for more than that would bring evil upon them. The nurse should have remembered this." "It may be too late for that, now," said Mabel. "You can alter the plot enough to change this part, I should think. That would be very easy, would it not, Mr. Anderson?" Mabel bit her lips to keep back the tears which came into her eyes, but one of them rolled down her, cheek in spite of her. Anderson began to feel how hard a task she was laying on him. "Miss Mabel," he said, slowly, "if the Prisoner should find that the nurse had l6ved him, he would deeply regret that she did not let him suffer alone, instead of brightening his cell with her presence. He would try to explain to her that he could not return her love, though his friendship would be eternal. He would say to her, 'My dear girl, give up these thoughts,   and be brave enough to outlive them.' That is what the Prisoner would say, and if the girl were as brave as I think her, she would hearken to his advice." Her rebellious heart throbbed fierce- ly against her bosom. "But you have not told me why you cannot change the plot of the story in this particular, Mr, Anderson. If the girl loves him devotedly, (and I can imagine how she may!) why should he not love her in return?" Anderson was more than ever sur- prised at her persistency. "What if there were Another," he said, soberly, "who had  a prior claim?" "Whoever she was," said Mabel, "she could not love him better than the nurse did.'" "Perhaps not, " he said; "but her claim is prior, nevertheless., I am writing the Second Part of my novel now  , The First has gone out into the world, and that world will demand the ending I have given them reason to expect. " Mabel was not to be put off in this way. "O!" she cried, "stop the print- ers of the First Part; search the book- stores and private libraries; call in the whole edition, and burn it in one bonfire. Is it not better than to break a woman's heart, as you will by con- tinuing the story as you have begun?.' "The woman's heart will not be broken, " said Albert, kindly, drawing his chair nearer to her, and taking her hand in his, "I have drawn her character as that of a brave girl, who will not succumb to such a small trial. She will continue to live the Prisoner's friend, and some day, she will find r a better man than he is for her husband.!" His touch was magnetic, and she suffered him to stroke her hair for   ' some moments without a word. Then , she said: :  "Mr. Anderson, tell me truly, is ' there no possibility that this may be - changed as I have asked?" "No, Miss Mabel. None. It can- t not be." The girl drew herself a little away f from him, and there came into her face something of the look she had * shown when he reproved her for weeping over the gallows-building,  and she had promised not to do so again. A look of a new resolve, which lit up her face with a sort of grandeur. "Then," she said firmly, "the nurse will overcome her love for the Prisoner. Not all at once, may be, but gradually, if she is, as you say, a brave girl. She can do this, and she shall do it! Now are you pleased, Mr. Anderson?" He was pleased, and in his admira- tion would have grasped her hand again, but she sprang up to leave the room.  "No, "she said, "I cannot bear it now. ,My bravery is new-found, and I am afraid to trust it. Good-bye for a little while. God bless you!" She threw a meaning into that last invocation that told him it was no light work she had undertaken, when she promised to give up him - the Prisoner. He thought how, perhaps, if there never had been any Ella, he might have loved such a woman as Mabel. But since there had been an Ella, and such a devoted Ella, who held his whole heart and soul, and would, he believed, some day, be re- stored to him again, he could not think of any other - no, not while life lasted! It was coming on evening, and as he did not wish to ride with Mabel that night, he went out for a stroll,   and wandered down by where the deep, dark river flowed by the planta- tion, with its ceaseless murmur of running waters. CHAPTER IV. "OST AND FOUND AGAIN, "Where is your husband, girl? You should be at home with him, and not wandering upon the road in this man- ner."  It was a woman who spoke.  At least she bore the appearance of being a woman. She was past the middle age, and had daughters of her own. And she might have spoken kinder, one would think, to the poor child who stopped by her door to ask leave to rest there an hour or two. "Dear lady," said the girl addressed, "I am so tired, and the child is so tired, and his father is many miles from here. 'It is such a little favor I ask you, lady. We are very far from any city, and we must rest somewhere." "No doubt," said the woman, ironi- ;cally. "You strolling people always yihave excuses enough, But you can't stay here. It shan't be said I encour- "ged any of ye. Come, now, go along, Ior;t will call the dogs, and then I reck- on ye'll start quick enough." The girl lifted, her I child upon her her shoulder, with a disheart- ened look, and went down upon the road again. It-was such a dusty road, so hot that she almost fainted under the burning sun. The child was heavy, and the mother small and weak. .It seemed as if she must give up under her burden. Struggling along the hot road for another mile, the wanderer found shade at last under a little clump of trees off from the roadside, and sank   down there almost exhausted. The child slept soundly, and she spread out her shawl for a bed, and laid him on it. He was a remarkably pretty child, with hazel eyes, and brown, curly hair. A heavy burden to his tired mother, but a precious one. "Ah, little Bertie, " said the moth- er, "if I could lie down and sleep like you, I should be happy. But we have a long journey to go yet, and I must keep awake till nightfall." The speaker started at a near foot- step, and grasped the shawl on which her child lay. How could she know but what the step was that of a wild beast, or of some man worse than a wild beast. She soon discovered it to be neither, however. It was an old negro woman with a basket on her arm. The old woman stopped on seeing the girl, and signalled to her to have no fear. She --came up and asked whether the girl was hungry, and on being answered yes, took some hoe- cake from her basket, and gave it to her. The food was homely; but the gift was kindly meant. The old woman sat down on the ground, and looked at the sleeping child. Then she looked, from the child to the. mother, and back again. "Yours, honey?" ' Yes. "The girl opened her lips, and made the form of the word, but no sound came forth. "Tired, honey?" Again the lips opened, but there was no sound. "Goin' far, honey?" "Yes. "The girl pointed over the tree tops, to indicate in which direc- tion. The old woman bent over the child in compassion a few moments. She   shook her head and murmured her sorrow. "It's allus de same, honey, in dis here worl'. Suff'rin', suff'rin' all de time. Wish I could do somethin' fur yer, but I'se only an old nigger woman, and I aint got nuthin' to give. " The girl heard her, and felt asham- ed that this poor creature should think she wanted charity from her. She put her hand in her pocket, and drew out a purse. It was light, now-a good deal lighter than it had once been- but there was money there yet. The old woman looked amazed to see the girl pour it out in her hand -and hold it up. The girl took out a piece, and motioned that she should pay for the hoecake she had eaten, but the woman would not touch it. "Keep it, chile," she said. "Yer'll need it yerself, bimeby." Then she went away muttering. The girl waited until the woman was out of sight, and then went down to a little brook which ran near by, to wash the dust from her hands and hqr face. The child awoke and she dip- ped her handkerchief into the water to wash its hands and its face. After this, the pair sat down on the bank of the little brook, the mother trying to collect her thoughts, and the child munching a piece of hoe-cake conten- tedly. Her and her heirs forever! Ella Hastings Anderson, and her child. Tramping over the hot roads to get away, farther and farther, from those she loved, and those she feared. And yet, it is certain, that loving Albert as her life, and fearing Hawley as she would death, Ella would rather have met the dark gentleman at any time than Anderson. For to meet the  lame gentleman could only harm her-  self, while to meet Albert, would harm  IO   him, whom she loved more than her- self. Her mind was clouded still, but this one thought was dominant-Whatever happened, Bert must not be disgraced. No matter if she had to rise in the night-time and steal away from places with baby, and always be on the watch for'some one who knew her, or had heard of her, lest they carry back the tidings to Anderson. And as if this fear was not enough, she had now an- other one to watch for-the lame gentleman with the broken leg. She tried to remember, as she sat there with her child on the bank of the little brook, all that had passed since she first saw the lame gentleman at. Mrs. Wilson's house. How kind he had been at first, bringing her oranges, and little presents for the baby. How he used to praise the child, and pet it when he came in to see her. She even rode out with him once, when he urged that her health was suffering by her long confinement in the house. Then, when they were in the outskirts of the town, he asked her if she would marry him, and go to his home miles away, where she should always be happy, and the child should never come to want anything. With what earnestness he pleaded she remem- bered well. But she thought of Bert,. and could not answer him  as he wished. When she refused him as kindly as she could, how suddenly his love turned to angerl It frightened her now to think of it. He told her she had better marry him, or he would. denounce her as Anderson's paramour wherever she might go. He foamed in his wrath until the white froth came down the sides of his mouth. Still she told him it could not be. Then he had grown terribly angry, and said that if she ever expected to marry that   brown-haired devil, she might give that 1 up at once, for he would be hung on ] the gallows before many weeks! 'But 1 she did not believe it. Innocent men  were never hung, she reasoned, and 1 Bert was not one to commit a crime  worthy of death. So she clung to the child, and tried not to mind the lame ] gentleman, and in this way they rode  back to Mrs. Wilson's. At the door  stood waiting 'the man who had eaten  dinner with her before the lame gen- tleman came there. As she passed up the stairs she heard the man say to Hawley, laughing, "She'll be too many for you, Fred," and Hawley answered, "I wish you'd mind your business, Felix McCabe." The little Bertie had eaten all his hoe-cake, and the mother rose to give him another piece. The child received the coarse food graciously, and the mother was left again to her reflections. "I wish you'd mind your business, Felix McCabe." Yes, that was what the lame gentleman said, in a very angry tone. And afterwards, "Do I owe you anything, or why do you come around me after your work is done, when you know I hate the sight of you?"The men's voices were loud, and she heard the man answer: "Yes, Mr. Hawley, you do owe me some- thing for those words of yours, and I'll have my pay, too, before I am through with you." Then she heard the word "Anderson," and was so affrighted that she ran into her room, and locked the door. That night she gathered a few articles of clothing in a bundle, and stole quietly out of doors when Mrs. 'Wilson was asleep. The night was a -very bright one, and she was afraid until she was gone several miles from ,the house. A team overtook her, and   the driver kindly asked if she would like to ride. Thinking only of get- ting away, away from  the lame gentleman, Ella thankfully accepted this offer, and climbed into the wagon with the baby. Ten miles of riding, and the team drew up before a rail- road station. It might as well be that way as any, she thought. Which way did the train go? Toward the South, they told her. Well, she would take a ticket for the South; a long, long way south, as far as the railroad would take her. The train came at last, and- she went, aboard with the baby. A day's ride brought her to the end of the railroad. She left the train, and found herself and little Bertie in a strange land. New rooms were found, and she lived in them some months, as economically as she could, for her money was going fast. She obtained a little sewing from the lady who owned the house, and one day, being in her parlor, she asked leave to play a little on the piano. This request being granted, the lady found that Ella was an excellent pianist, and engaged her to teach music to her young daughter. From this, several other ladies brought their daughters to her, and she taught quite a little class of them. She was very quiet and reserved, but the ladies liked her all the better for this, and they had paid her well. Bertie was growing finely, and the girls all loved him and used to play with him. Thtfs ,the sunshine spread over the young mother. But one day the shadow came, and darkened all. I   It was such a little shadow, but she was afraid of it as much a though it t had covered the whole earth. 1  Sitting at her window, sewing, one 1 afternoon, she saw the lame gentle- i man, walking with a cane, limping   down the street near the house. He did not see her, but she had no peace after that. She feared he might find her, and denounce her before her friends as he had threatened, and she resolved on flight. The lame gentleman seemed always to be found in cities. To escape him she muiit go into the country. She did not dare to go to. the great rail- road stations, lest he might be among them; she did not even dare to go in the daytime, but waited until darkness covered the earth. Then she left a note for her kind landlady, begging her not to think evil of her for her sudden departure, for she must go, and then, taking Bertie, she wan- dered away. Daylight found her .near a poor man's cabin. The poor man saw her, and told her to come in and rest, and she would -be right welcome. The poor man's wife gave her breakfast, but would take no money from her. The poor man's little boy volunteered to show her a short cut to the high- road, for she insisted that she must be going; and they all said "'God speed you!" when she left them. The child could not walk, and though she was very tired, she had to carry it in her arms. There was no rest for her. She felt she must be going on, on, until she could be sure she was be- yond the reach of the lame gentleman who had been so angry because she would not marry him. The little Bertie had eaten his cake, and gone to sleep again. Zlla took the child in her arms, and pil- lowed his head on her shoulder. The bright hair of the mother mingled with that of the little one. How few the years since she first laid her girl- ish head on the other Bert's shoulder, in their night passage to Claremont   Seminary! "Dear Bert," sobbed Ella, "If he knew this, he would believe truly that I loved him; but he must never know!" Then she resumed her thoughts of the journey. After leaving the poor man's family she walked on until she came to a village. There was a little factory in the village, like the facto- ries she had seen in the towns further north, and she came to it just as the factory girls were coming out to dinner. Some of the girls were black and some were white, but they all looked merry, she thought, and the wanderer stopped to inquire for the Superintendent, to ask him to employ her. Then the white and black girls gathered'around her and her baby, laughing, and the Superintendent came out. He was an ugly brute, with no pity about him. As soon as he heard Ella's request for work, he turned to the laughing girls, and said  "Do you want such people as this to work with you, girls?" And they all shouted with one voice: "No! No! We don't want her here." "Why?" asked Ella, surprised. And then the girls laughed again, and pointed to the child, and the Superin- tendent said, brutally: "Honest women don't travel the roads with children. You must go elsewhere than here if you want work. Come, now! Be going." This was her first lesson in the ways of the world toward the unfortu- nate, but there were ihore to follow. One woman farther on offered to hire her as a house-servant, if she would give her child away to an asylum. "I will say nothing about the strangeness of your having a child at   all, travelling with you on the road," said the woman. "I overlook that entirely, which is what few people would do. But if you wish to take my situation, you must send him away and never ask to go to visit him again." Ella returned a shocked look to the woman's proposition. "Give up little Bertie, ma'am? -0, no, I couldn't do that'! We will live together or die together." Then she went on again; on, on, but always meeting with rebuffs for Bertie's sake, and refusals to employ her with the child. "Oh, Bertie, Bertie!" cried Ella as the child lay in her arms, "Why do they hate you so? Why do they turn me away on your account. You are a good baby, and they need not be ashamed of you. Oh, my poor Bertie!" It would have brought tears to your eyes, if there is one particle of God's spirit in you, to have seen the young mother pondering in anguish over this great social problem. The sun was already out of sight when Ella took the child once more on her shoulder, and resumed the travelled road. It was cooler to walk then than it had been when she had sought the grove, and she intended to make the most of the night-time. She was not as afraid of the lonely, desolate road as of the men who gazed curiously at her as she met them. They were often gruff, bad-looking men, but they generally accosted her with a pleasant 'evenin' miss," and made no attempt to detain her. So she walked on, on, till' she grew so tired she could scarcely proceed a step farther. She had been alone with the child for several hours, when toiling along the   \ 0 road, its numerous windings brought her a companion-the River. The River was not very wide,'but it was deep, dark and swift. It was rushing on toward its mouth, where it joined the Father of Waters, twenty miles away. The sound of the River struck sweetly on the tired girl's ear, and she sat down to rest on its banks. Little by little the River sung to her a song which made her start in horror at first, and then clasp her hands to- gether in indecision. Father in Hea- ven! Must it come to' that! The River told her-"You are tired, you ark weary, you andyour child will starve together. No one will employ you while the baby is with you. To save both your lives there is but one thing to be done. Search my banks until you find a boat. Wrap Bertie in your shawl, and lay him in it while he sleeps. Push out the boat upon my bosom; I will carry it down by the towns, the cities, the villages-and the plan- tations. Such an object as a boat floating alone will soon be noticed, and some one will row out to capture the prize.. He will find the child, and bring it to the shore. Some good family will adopt it, and it will grow up happy. You will then be left free. You will find every avenue opened which closed against you yesterday. Both your life and the child's can be saved if you heed my proposal. The little golden-haired figure kissed the baby passionately, and list- ened again to the siren voice of the River. If you do not heed me, you have no choice but to go, meeting rebuffs everywhere, until you go, tired out, into some quiet place to die. If you die, the child must die, too. Do as I have said, and both of you shall live."   Thus the River seemed to whisper, as it flowed by her, deep, dark and swift. Ella Hastings was tired; she was weary; she was discouraged. What suffering it had taken to bring her to listen to the River's voice, judge ye who know something of her misfor- tunes. If the River had only whis- -pered of her own good, she would not have listened a moment, but when it spoke of this being to save Bertie, she caught every word eagerly. She lis- tened afterward to hear some new sound in the waters, but they only re- peated the same words: "If you die, the child must die too-the child must die too. Do as I have said, and both of you shall live." The young mother caught up the baby and hurried along the shore. She soon found a boat pulled up on the bank, and with much difficulty she pushed it into the water. She worked fast, fearing that her courage would forsake her before the deed was done. She wrapped the sleeping child in her only shawl and laid him in the bottom of his little ark. She took a pencil and a leaf of paper from her pocket, and wrote a few words to place with the child to be read by his discoverers. She  lifted a little gold chain with a ring attached, from her own neck, passed the note through the ring, and hung it on the child's neck. She kneeled on the sand, and prayed God to bless her baby-Bert's babv -and find him friends. She bent over the boat and kissed the little sleeper gently, lest he should wake, and by his crying divert her from her purpose. Then with another prayer in her heart for the child's safety, she turned her face away from the boat, and with one hand pushed it out upon   the River's bosom, which took it up in its current and carried it along. Half-blinded and shocked at what she had done, Ella ran fro'm the place, as fast as she could go. In her haste she fell several times, and her hands were torn and scratched by the bushes. She regained the road  and ran on. As the daylight became visible in the east, an early market wagon overtook her, and she asked leave to ride to the nearest railroad. The boy who drove the wagon kindly gave her a seat, an4 once more she entered a depot, with only one desire, to flee as far as possible from her troubles. A ticket was procured, which left a woeful little sum of money in Ella's purse. Again she rode away over the iron track, behind the snorting engine which had become her best friend in times of fear' and danger. And as the rapidly turning wheels carried her farther and farther from her child, she prayed: "God be merciful to me if I have done wrong to thee, oh, my baby!" *   *   Pi  *  * Albert Anderson walked up and down on the banks of the stream which washed the shores of Long- wood, that night after his conference with Mabel, trying to quiet his troubled breast. Those newly awak- ened remembrances of Ella weighing on his spirits, and he fell to dreaming of her as he walked. He stepped into a boat which lay moored at the little pier, and taking up the oars, pulled across the stream, and cast anchor where there could come no sound to disturb his thoughts. Here he sat for hours, his head bowed in his hands; calling it all to memory, from the day he first saw his girl, to the present time. If he had been   able to live those years over again, he would have shaped his course very differently. Thus taught experience, and how stern a teacher that was, he knew well. He had passed through many  Dangerous Experiments to arrive at some truths. . Perhaps they were even worth the sorrow. he had undergone, but this seemed almost doubtful. He stopped in his reverie, thinking he heard a sound upon the water. Not hearing it repeated, he relapsed into the reverie again. And yet, no matter how much he had suffered, Ella had suffered more. The revelations of Sallie Slader and Felix McCabe showed what -a noble, true, loving heart beat in. her breast for him.  Poor Ella!  At that moment she might be wandering somewhere with her child- Was that a cry he heard coming from out on the river? The night was very dark, and An- derson could see but a short distance before him. He strained his eyes to pierce the blackness, and listened intently. It was a cry which he heard.- And as he listened, it was repeated. He caught up his oars and pulled with all speed into the current. The cries became more frequent, and served to guide him toward the spot from whence the sound came. Pausing to look ahead of his boat, he discovered another boat, floating at the river's will, and the cries seemed to come from the bottom of the latter craft. A few more strokes brought the young man alongside, and, throwing up his oars, he caught the boat, and pulled it toward him. "Good Heavens!" he exclaimed, "It is a child!"   The child ceased crying as it saw the new face, and raised its little arms to be taken up. The young man at- tached the child's boat to the stern of his own, and guided both crafts toward the shore, where they soon grounded on the sand; then he took the in- fant in his arms, and brushed the tears from its face with his hand- kerchief. It was the first time the baby had ever seen its new protector, but it nestled to his breast as if it had found a natural home there. The young man searched, both in the boat and about the child's clothing, for some clue to the parties who abandoned it, for this seemed the most probable conclusion to arrive at. "Who could have been so cruel as to desert you in this manner?" mused Anderson. "Some evil mother, I fear, who had no love for you. Ah! What is -this?" It was a fine gold ring and chain. In the ring was thrust a tightly folded piece of white paper.  Anderson struck a match and opened the paper. He started, looked at the chain, start- edmore than before, looked at the ring, and turned very pale. His trembling fingers managed to press a catch in the ring, and as it opened, he saw a. little cluster of hair ly- ing inside. Frenzied by the sight, he tore a bunch from his own head and compared them. They were alike beyond the power of mistaking. As : he was trying to comprehend the let- ter, his match went out and left him in utter darkness. The baby, who had lifted up its head to watch the bright light, laid down again as it vanished, and An- derson knew. as it pressed his arm that it was the child of his darling..   Trembling violently, yet striving hard to becalm, the young man lit another match, and  read. The letter was written in a straggling way, and he could only decipher it with difficulty: "Kind People, "Who may discover my child, care for him, and may God bless you. He will be two years old on the second day of August The match went out once more, though that was not strange when his. hand shook so hard. He lit another and read on: "The second day of August next. He is a good child, but I am poor, and no one will give me work" - a mist came before his eyes as he read - " while I have the baby with me. I shall fly to some place far from here, and no -one can find me after that. The last thing I write is - Be good to my child." The ring was Ella's and the young man felt the hot tears rising to re- member how she had begged a little lock of his hair to. place in it, so long ago. The chain he had put on her neck one evening, and told her it was to be a symbol of their love,- with- out an end. The writing was Ella's, and the child must be theirs. Anderson pulled the boats to Long- wood Pier, and after tying them there, took his child in his arms and walked to the house.  The occupants had long been abed, and his ring at the bellbrought out an astonished negro, whowas surprised to see the young man there at all, at that hour, and still more so to see the child he carried in his arms. "Goodness gracious, Massa Ander-, son! '" he exclaimed, "What under de sun you got dere?" "A little child which I found 'oat- ing in a boat, Cisar," replied A\- derson, "I wish you would call u Miss Mabel and Aunt Dinah.  They   will know how to care for it better than I. " Caesar scrambled up stairs to do as he was bid, and soon spread the tid- ings that "Massa Anderson  had found a pickanninny floating in de water, fur sho!"Nearly all the house was aroused by t e strange news, and faces of all complexions began to peep in upon the young man as he sat iln the sitting-room, holding the child. PresentlyMabel came in, blushingly excusing her white wrapper and loose hair, and Caesar ordered everybody else out of the room in haste. "Dear me, Mr. Anderson," said Mabel, "What a pretty child it is. Where did you find it?" The young man detailed the facts, excepting the discovery of the chain, ring and letter. "Have you found anything which gives -a clue to the people who aban- doned the poor little fellow?" "I have not looked very carefully," he replied, evasively. "Perhaps you may discover some clue hereafter." "Let me takehim," said Mabel, holding out her arms for the boy. The child looked first at Anderson, and then fell laughingly into Mabel's embrace.     . "You are fond of children," said Anderson, are you not?" "Well, rather, said Mabel, blushing again. "When they are good, you know. And I am sure this one must be." "Wliy?" asked Albert Anderson. "Because," she replied, "he is so handsome. He has such a sweetly formed face, such -lovely eyes, and such beautiful brown hair. He cannot help being good, Mr. Anderson." The earnest face which looked up at the young man, met a photograph r of the very features she had described.   Mabel noticed, it for the first time, and exclaimed: "Why, the child looks enough like you, Mr. Anderson, to be- your younger brother!" Mrs. Davis came in at this mioment, having risen with great labor, curious to see what had aroused the attention of the whole house at that hour of the night. While dressing she had been constantly receiving exaggerated re- ports concerning she affair, some stat- ing that Anderson had the sitting-room full of babies, and others contending that there were only five or six. The ; tately lady glanced around the room as she entered, as if expecting to step upon some of the new children unless she exercised considerable care. See- ing only the' one child which Mabel held to her bosom, Mrs. Davis be- came reassured, and closed the door with a bang. "O, Auntie!" cried Mabel. "Do come and see this lovely boy which Mr. Anderson has found. Mrs. Davis came nearer and in- spected the child as though it were some new specimen'of one of the lower animals. "What are you going to do with it?" she asked, stepping back a little. Anderson noticed her manner, and it annoyed him. "I am intending to adopt it, and rear it as my own!" he answered. "O, Mr. Anderson! You cannot mean it! Why, it is probably the child of some low people, or it would not have been abandoned in this way." Anderson frowned, darkly. "Is it only low people, then, who may become too poor to care for their offspring? Might not a mother give up her child in this way from poverty, who is as good as you or I?"   "O,- well," said Mrs. Davis, lan- guidly. "I do not care to argue the matter. Of course you will do as you like." "Of course I shall," said Ander- son, severely. "What do you say, Miss Mabel? Will you help me in the work, if I adopt the child?" Mabel promised with bright eyes, and took the little one away then to her room, where she undressed it, and laid it on her own pillow for the night. How much his eyes and hair were like Mr. Anderson's! She kissed the face on the pillow as she had kissed the prisoner's when he lay sick in the cell. And as she did so, her rebel- lious heart forgot the resolution she had made, and throbbed against her bosom, fiercely! CHAPTER V. THE BEGINNINNG O THE END. Albert Anderson's latest freak fur- nished gossip for hundreds of good people, when it became known that he had actually adopted a child which he found floating, Moses-like, upon the water.' Some people were kind enough to state that they supposed he had a right to do as he pleased with his own money, but the majority considered this a dangerous degree of liberty to al;ow' him, and steadfastly persisted in objec- ting to it as liable to form a bad pre- cedent. Others wanted to know why we were taxed to build asylums and almshouses, if children who naturally came under these institutions were to be regarded as better than respectable people's, and raised above their heads in this way. Still others suggested that if Anderson was going into the adoption business, why didn't he take this child as that one they knew of,   whose parents had died of hard work, after building fortunes for such men as him. Now, these last mentioned chil- dren must grow up to eat the bread of labor, while this waif, whom nobody knew the history of, would be reared in velvet and satin. So the gossip- ing crowd grumbled. As they always will grumble over what does not con- cern them. And, as usual, Albert Anderson paid as little attention to what they said as to the buzz of any other flies which came about him. If he had only loved the child for Ella's sake at first, he could not help loving it for its own sake as time went by. Mabel's assertion that it must be a good child, showed her to be an unusually acute judge of character. He was a very quiet little fellow, who made scarcely any trouble, and could amuse himself by the hour with any new plaything that was given him. Of all the things he preferred, how- ever, a woolly-headed little negro, who would lie down and let him pull his hair, seemed to afford him the greatest delight. He soon became fond of stepping out of doors and walking slowly about the lawn, pick- ing himself up after each fall with a good deal of philosophy, but never asking help or giving up to tears. Mabel, too, had undertaken Bertie's charge as a labor of love for Mr. Anderson, but learned immediately to love the child for its own sake. She liked nothing better than to dress and feed the boy, or sit on the veranda, and watch him running about, or to have him come up to her with his arms extended for her to lift him from the ground. It was a pretty sight to see Mabel of an evening, sitting upon the veranda, in her white wrapper, and taking baby in her lap, stroke his curls and talk to him about the river   and the moon he saw reflected in the river. It was a pretty sight, but it struck home to Anderson's heart with a sort of chill, as he came upon them sitting thus, one pleasant evening. "O, Mr. Anderson 1" cried Mabel, "I am very glad you have come." It seemed to him she was always glad when he came, and he wished in his heart it were otherwise. He took a seat near the pair, and looked at them gravely. He was grown very sober since that night when he found such freight floating down to him on the river. As he looked at the pretty sight, he was chilled again. "I hope Bertie is not a trouble to you, Miss Mabel," he said. They had named the child after Al- bert, and called it Bertie as Ella had done. "No indeed," said Mabel. "He is a treasure, aren't you, Bertie? I love him too well for him to be a trouble to me." Mabel kissed the boy as she finish- ed, and Albert Anderson winced. "I hope, Miss Mabel," he said, "that you will be careful not to-love -the child-too much." "Love him too much I Why, Mr. Anderson, what can you mean?" "It is not well in this world," said Anderson," to give up our whole hearts to any idol, or we may reap a reward of bitter sorrow afterward. This child has probably a mother liv- ing, who may come some day to claim it. If she comes, I cannot hold the boy against her wishes. Therefore I say, Be careful not to love the boy too much. I hope you understand me, Miss Mabel." "I think so," replied Mabel, softly. "Have you heard any news of Bertie's mother, Mr. Anderson." "Only a little," said the young man   taking off his hat, and wiping the per- spiration from his forehead. "She was seen in the village opposite us by several people, but after she left the river the trail is lost." "Was she a young woman?" "Alh, yes. A mere girl, they tell me." Mabel sighed. "What a pity, Mr. Anderson." "Yes, a great pity, Miss Mabel." "Did you learn her name, Mr. An- derson?" "She told it to no one," replied An- derson, evasively, "She had little conversation, I understand with the people she met. One old negress I saw, who gave her some hoe-cake as she sat with the baby under a shade, and I rewarded the old woman with enough to buy her finery for years to come. "You seem very much interested in the girl, whoever she is," said Mabel, looking at the young man suspicious- ly. "Well," said Anderson, suddenly. "-What if I am?" "O, nothing," replied Mabel cast- ing down her eyes. "Is it possible," said Anderson, re- provingly, "that you blame me for wishing to know where Bertie's mother is? Or is it possible that you wonder because I chose to reward the old negress's kindness to her?" "I did not mean to convey either of those impressions," said Mabel, pressing the baby against her bosom. "I only meant-that is-I don't know what I did mean." Anderson sat looking at Mabel for a long time, without speaking. What a strange girl Mabel was! How she seemed to love the child! What a motherly look she had with her white wrapper and evening shawl. He- was   afraid of this new affection between Mabel and Bertie. And he said, at last, as he arose to get Into the house: "You will remember what I said about loving baby too much, Miss Mabel?" "I will try," said Mabel, in a low tone. "Then you will certainly succeed" replied Anderson. "Let me kiss the boy good-night!" Albert kissed the child in Mabel's very arms, and as he finished she put the baby lips to her own, and kissed it, too. He must have been less ob- servant than he was not to notice the way she did this, and as his eyes encountered her's again, she blushed deeply to see how he read her like an open book. "Good-night, Miss Mabel," said Anderson, extending his hand toward her. "Good-night," she replied, without accepting the hand he profiered. And he left her there in the moonlight, in her white wrapper and evening shawl, and in her lap the child he had cau- tioned her not to love too much. Mrs. Haynes was notified by a Iong letter from Albert, of the discovery he had made, and the proofs that he had indeed found Ella's child. The good woman was induced to make the southern journey, and Albert met her at New Orleans on her way to Long- wood. Mrs. Haynes was glad to re- ceive even this token that Ella was still living, and she comforted Albert by assurances that she would yet be found and restored to her child and him.  On seeing Bertie, Mrs. Haynes could hardly restrain her feel- ings, but having been previously cau- tioned by Anderson, she managed to keep some control of them. She re- mained at Longwood only a few weeks,   when finding that the hot climate was seriously affecting her, she was obliged to return North. She was as kind in her manner to Albert as if he had been her own child, and, indeed, since Ella went away, he had acted the part toward her well. His roof was her home, his servants was at her dis- posal, and in every way did he try to show her how much he regarded her as a very dear friend. For her part, she had never held in her heart one particle of evil feeling against the young man since that day when she had felt the weight of his great con- fession crush in upon her spirit so that she cried, "May God forgive you!"The horror that he manifested then taught her that he was as sorry for his sin as she could be, and she did well in hesitating before she added to the suffering that was already deep enough. Another summer passed away, and when autumn came Anderson co'n- cluded tq go North for a time to ar- range business matters. The climate of Longwood seemed peculiarly suited to Bertie's constitution, and it was thought best to have him stay there during the coming winter. Mabel had endured the heat for his sake, and Mrs. Davis, feeling that she would be lost without her niece, had also spent the summer at Longwood.  But, as autumn drew near, she grew anxious to attend to some matters at home, and Anderson agreed to act as her companion on the journey at the same time that he made his own trip. On the evening before they were intend- ing to go, Anderson took his child from Mabel's arms, and kissed him tenderly. You will care for the child while I am gone, Miss Mabel?"   "Yes," replied Mabel, struggling with her heart. "And I will be care- ful not to love him-too much, Mr. Anderson." Anderson looked at the girl strange- ly, and kissed his child again. Mabel would have given more than life to have him kiss her in that manner. But he never did! And she could not help showing a little bitterness. "The child loves you, Miss Mabel," said Anderson, as he observed the readiness with which Bertie nestled in her arms. "Yes, sir," faltered the girl. "You have been almost a mother to him," said Anderson, gently. "I have tried to be, sir." --- \ "I am afraid you have been over- tasking yourself, Mis Mabel, with Ber- tie's care. I should advise you to procure the services of some good girl to assist you while we are away." "Very well, sir." He began to notice her short re- plies, and to wonder at their cause. "Miss Mabel," said he, "have I said or done anything which dis- pleases you? If I have, I am truly sorry." He added the last words when she put down the child and bowed her face in her hands. "You have been very kind to me, Miss Mabel, and to my-the child. I am pained if anything has gone wrong with you in relation to us two." The girl bit her lips but would not answer. ' Miss Mabel -" began Anderson, again. "Don't call me that name!" cried the girl. "Don't call me Aiss again! I hate the word. Why cannot you call me Mfabel as the others do?" "Very well, I will call you Mabel,"   said Anderson, surprised at her ex- citement. "Now tell me what dis- pleases you, Mabel." "Many things," replied the girl. "I am giving no certainties to found my hopes and plans upon in life. Those I love are liable to be taken from me at any time, and my voice would have no influence in the matter. I have let my heart wind arotind this child, and yet you can take him away at any hour. I have loved you -you know it well, Mr. Anderson-and what will be my reward? I will tell you what it will be- Desolation and a broken heart!" "Mabel!" said Anderson, very ten- derly, "Have I not warned you twice before, that these thoughts were idle, and should be banished from your brain. -Once under this very roof, and once in my cell at Prince County Jail?" "Yes, you have!" said Mabel, commencing to weep bitterly. "And you have gone on, letting me love you just the same. You have brought here this boy, through whom I have only loved you the more. I wish," said the girl, passionately, "that those days when the nurse watched by the prisoner, had been without an end. They were sad enough, I know, but they were heavencompared with this!" Albert Anderson listened, feeling that Mabel's nature was deeply stirred to bring her to such a confession. As usual, he determimed what to do, quickly. "My dear girl," he said, " the past cannot be recalled, but my duty for the future seems plain. I must take Bertie with me to the North, and you must-try to forget us both. This is a sad matter, and should be ended at once." Nothing could have affected Mabel   more than such .a proposition as this. She was so troubled by the fear that he would really take the child away that she promised to say no more on the subject. She urged that the boy must at least stay till spring, as the northern winter would be dangerous for him. And at last, Anderson con- sented that he should stay, and that he would return himself for a while after finishing his business matters at home. Mabel stilled her heart as well as she was able, and when Ander- son left her for his chamber, she was apparently calm and unruffled. But when the morning came, and they all arose before sunrise, that the travellers might reach an early train, Mabel's resolutions broke down again. It was when he asked to see Bertie once more, and she led the way to her own room, where the beautiful child was lying on her own pillow. It was when he paused to admire the sleeping boy, and put back the curly hair to kiss his forehead gently. It was then that Mabel, unable to control her. self, caught him by the arm and cried: "O! Kiss me, too, Mr. Anderson! Kiss me once before you go, or I shall die." The young man passed his arm about her, and kissed her, exactly as he had kissed his child. "There, Mabel," he said, "God bless you. Be good to Bertie, ard I will return in a few days. Now, good- by." Not till he had kissed her once, twice more, did she release him. Then, as his retreating footsteps were heard in the hall, she fainted, as she had done at the jail, and lay as one dead on her chamber floor. After Albert was gone, Mabel soon recovered enough to be about her duties, but having now the care of the   whole establishment on her shoulders, she thought well of the young man's advice in relation to engaging a nurse for Bertie, and began to inquire among her friends to see if they knew of a suitable person for the place. There were colored girls by the hun- dred whom she could procure, but she had seen Anderson's dislike when they were holding the boy, too much to think he would be satisfied with one of these. It was clearly a white girl that he would have her engage. Such nurses were found to be very scarce in the vicinity, and Mabel had almost despaired of obtaining one, when one day word was brought her that a girl was at the door who wished to apply for the situation. "Ask her if she will please step up to my,room," said Ma/bel. Mabel Le  loyne heard her door open, and being engaged with some work at the time, merely asked the newcomer to be seated, without look- ing up. The child's nurse took a chair as requested, and sat down, ner- vously clasping her hands.. In a few moments Mabel put down her work, and turned to address the girl. Her vision met a creature so very different from what she had expected, that she started in surprise. A sweet, girlish figure, perhaps nineteen or twenty years of age, with eyes of deepest blue, a mouth around whichi nature seemed to have set its most beautiful expression, but where time and suffering had added a touch of sadness; hair a queen might have envied for its golden magnificence, hanging in simple braids about her neck, and in one shining band above her forehead; a simple dress, with few ribbons, and but little jewelry. A fig- ure that might have served well for an artist's model, except that he could   never hope to reproduce it on his can- vas. Is it a wonder that Mabel started in surprise, as this vision first met her. eye? "I beg your pardon, lady," said the girl's voice, apologetically, as she noticed the look with which she was met. "I hear you wish a girl to care for a child. I came to apply for the situation." "Ah!" smiled Mabel, recovering herself, and still regarding the girl with deep interest. "Do you reside in the neighborhood?" "No, Madam. I came from a place some way to the north of here." "Did you ever have the care of a child?" asked Mabel, wonderingly. "O, yes, madam. I had the care of one for more than a year. I love children, and I know I could suit S-OU." "No doubt of that," said Mabel, quickly. "But  excuse me if I am too inquisitive - were you always obliged to work for your living, Miss?" The girl saw that it was' more a heartfelt interest than idle curiosity which prompted this question, and she answered it in the spirit with which-it was asked. "No, madam, only for a few years past. I was left to earn my own bread after being used to better things. But I assure you, I never think-,of that now. I am satisfied to work at any respectable employment, and consider it no disgrace so long as I give satisfaction." "You are quite right, my girl," re- joined Mabel. "I have had consid- erable trouble in searching for a nurse, and will be glad to engage you at once, if you will stay." She named the wages she was willing to pay,   which proved quite satisfactory, and the matter was settled immediately. "'Could I see the child now, madam?" asked the girl directly. "He has gone out to ride with some of the men," Mabel replied. "I am expecting him soon." It was getting late in the afternoon, and the evening was well advanced when Uncle Caesar came up the stairs with Master Bertie. The boy was looking rosy enough to have attracted any nurse, and the newly engaged girl received him smilingly. Mabel kissed the little fellow lovingly, and on learning that he had already eaten his supper, and was tired enough to go to bed, introduced him at once to his new nurse, and told him he must be a good boy and give her very little trouble indeed. "I believe I have not heard your name yet," said Mabel to the nurse. "Emma Harding," answered the girl, quietly. "Well, Emma, you may put the boy to bed now and then come down again. Caesar, show Miss Harding the child's room. Now, come here and kiss me good-night, Bertie." "Good-night," said the boy, kissing her, "You will be a good boy to Emma, Bertie?" "Yes, mmamma." Caesar showed Emma Harding the child's room, and she entered and closed the door. That she was ex- cited, was shown by the changing color of her cheek.  And why? Simply by that one word which fell from her mistress's lips -"Bertie." "Are you sleepy, darling?" asked the nurse, kindly, as she took the boy in her lap, to undress him. "Yes, awful sleepy," lisped the child, drowsily.     The nurse went on in the process of undressing, when suddenly she cried out: "Bertie! What is this you wear on your neck?" "My chain and ring," said the child, opening his eyes. "I always wear it." The nurse began to behave very strangely after that. She lifted the chain from Bertie's neck, and in some manner her trembling fingers opened the catch in the ring. She looked in, as Anderson had done in. the boat, and saw the shining hair curled away there. She pressed it to her lips a moment, and raised her eyes and heart to, Heaven in mute thanksgiv- ing. If she had spoken, she would have said: "My God, I thank thee that my child still lives!" Was it indeed her child? Is this the one, Mabel, that has the prior right to the man you love? Is this the girl he has loved, When for you he has only friendship? Is this her on whose faithfulness the First Part of the Prisoner's Story was founded, and the Second Part depends? And you, Mabel, have taken her under your roof! The boy lay asleep in the arms of his nurse. Gently she removed his clothing, afnd substituted his little night-dress. Holding him to her breast, the first time in many monthg, she thought of another child who, after being placed in a boat and pushed out into the stream, had been rescued by a Princess, and its own mother sent for to nurse it. She thanked God once more in her heart for having directed her steps toward this house, where another Princess had taken her child in like manner, and given it into its mother's hands.   Then, fearing that her mistress would wonder at her long absence, the nurse kissed the. child again, laid him ten- derly in his bed, and went down stairs. The Princess was sewing, and the nurse asked leave to assist her, wish- ing to be where she could learn the later history of the child she had just left. The Princess complied, and the two women, so strangely brought together, each knowing nothing of what filled the other's heart, sewed their seams together in one room, quietly. "Did you leave Bertie asleep?" asked the Princess, looking up from her work to address the new nurse. "Yes, madam. He went to sleep at once." "He was pretty tired," said the Princess.  "Yes, madam, he seemed to be. How old is the boy, madam?" "Over two years," said the Prin- cess. "It is strange he hasf such fair hair when you are so dark, is it not madam?" "O," said the Princess, blushing, "Bertie is not my own child. I am 'not married, Emma." "Indeed!" said the nurse, counter- feiting surprise. "Whose child, then, if not yours?" It might have been the nurse's child, if such an idea were not quite preposterous. Or it might have been Albert Anderson's child, or both. The nurse need not have expressed such wonder, but that she feared to commit herself otherwise. But she was very anxious to hear the rest of the story, and paused to allow the Princess to proceed. "It is the adopted child of a gen- tleman who has spent the past year   here- at Longwood," said the Princess. "There is quite a strange history con- nected with the child. This gentle- man being out in a boat one night, heard a cry, and on investigating its cause, found Bertie in another boat floating down the River. This was in October last. All the tokens of the child's ownership which were found, were a brief note stating that he would be two years old on the second day of the following August, and a chain and ring about his neck. The chain and ring he has always worn since. You saw it, I suppose, when you undressed him?" Yes, the nurse had noticed it. The history was indeed a strange one. And the Princess continued: "The gentleman who found the child was wealthy, and after trying in vain to discover its parents, he adopt- edit, giving it the name of Bertie. The gentleman left him in my care, and I have learned to love him very much. You noticed, perhaps, that he called me-Mamma?" Yes, the nurse had noticed it, and she said so. How much it cut her to the heart to remember it, knowing that she had a better right to the name but could not claim it, she did not say. Where is the gentleman now?" "He is at the North on business matters but will return before many weeks," replied the Princess; and fearing to excite suspicion by asking. lengthy questions, the nurse said no more about the matter then. Days passed on, and Emma Hard- ing, as she was called, cared for her own child under the roof of strangers, eating of their bread and taking their money for the service. The cloud upon her mind was only partiallylifted, and she continued the same sweet, quiet girl who had left weeping friends   at Hillsdale House, and had aroused such fierce passion in the breast of the lame gentleman. Quietly she per- formed her daily duties, speaking kind- ly to all, but saying little at any time. Everyone who saw the girl loved her, and remarked upon her sweet, sad' beauty. Little Bertie loved her as well as the rest, and she became almost contented in her new home. Saying as little as the girl did to the people around her, it is not strange that she never came to hear- spoken the name of the wealthy gentleman who had adopted Bertie. One sound of the word Anderson would have caused her to fly from Longwood and her child instantly. But she never heard the name mentioned, and in- deed, as she supposed, the name of Bertie's adopted father had no pecu- liar significance to her. It was in this state of things that Mabel received a letter from Ander- son one day, stating that Mrs. Davis had been taken ill at her residence, and wanted her niece to come there at once, if possible. He advised that she leave the child at Longwood if she could find a suitable nurse for it, and obey her aunt's wishes. He stated that he would return to the South directly, and meet her at one of the cities on her route, if she would come. Mabel was not long in deciding. She despatched a message stating where she would meet Anderson, and hurriedly made preparations for her journey to her sick aunt's bedside. "Emma," said she to the nurse, while dressing for her journey, "I have just received word that my aunt is very ill, and I must go without delay to her home. You will take care of Bertie until I return, which will be before long, I hope. The gentleman I spoke to you about, who adopted   Bertie, will be here in a few days, and take charge of affairs. Till that time, I leave all to you." Emma assented quietly, and assist- ed Mabel in getting ready for her de- parture. "Be very careful of Bertie. We should all die if he should come to hurt. You will, won't you, Emma?" "I will, indeed," replied the nurse with truth, and Mabel hurried into her carriage and was driven away by the coachman. The third day after this, a boy was sent with saddled horses to the sta- tion for the coming gentleman. In a few hours he came - galloping up the road at full speed, with his servant far behind, and the hoofs of his horse struck fire out of the Longwood ave- nues. The negroes took off their hats, and cried: "Massa's come!"And Albert An- derson himself rode smiling up to the house, until, looking up at one of the chamber windows, he reined in his horse so hard as to throw him on his hind feet. L. "Will these visions never cease?" he gasped, lifting his cap to brush the long, brown hair from his perspiring forehead. Bzt was it a vision? He was in doubt of this even, and giving his rein to one of the men, he hurried into \the house and up stairs to the room where he had seen the vision. It was still there by the win- dow, and he staggered into the room and cried        \ "Ella! Ella, my darling! if it is you, speak to me!" "It is I, Bert," replied the nurse, faintly.. "And what do you here?" cried Albert, the old choking rising in his throat.   "You see." She lifted the child, and turned her sad blue eyes upon the man. "Our boy, Ella!" "Our boy, Bert." "Then you are the nurse they have engaged for him?" "Yes, and you must be the gentle- man who adopted him? Believe me, Bert," cried Ella, "if I had imagined it possible that this was so, I would have been miles from here this hour. Believe me, Bert, I would have drowned myself, rather!" "Ella "He dropped on one knee beside her. "Believe me, Bert, I never meant to do this I Believe me, I have tried hard to keep disgrace from you! Be- lieve me, oh, Bert! The tired girl could utter no more. She sank lifeless into the arms opened to receive her. Albert Anderson held her there, on one knee, kissing her face over and over again. While the little Bertie, who could not under- stand the matter at all, came and laid his infant cheek to the nurse's won- deringly, and watched the pair with his baby eyes. CHAPTER VI. EXPLANATIONS. When the news reached Mabel Le- Moyne that Anderson had found his love in her late servant-maid, her mind was so overcome by the shock as to deprave her temporarily of her reason. Added to the thoughts of losing Albert forever, was that of losing Bertie, to whom Mabel was de- votedly attached. When aAnderson and Ella returned to the city where Mabel lived, the latter sought every opportunity to witness the united cou-   ple's happiness, and giving up her life to the one thought of her wrong, her brain became fired and beyond con- trol. At last, one day, she managed to decoy the boy into a secluded place, and calling a carriage, rode to the nearest station, and without any preparation, took a train to the north- ward. When Anderson found his boy missing, he called in the services of Steel, the detective, and they were soon on the right track. Mabel had gone but a few score of miles by rail, and then taken to the highway. They traced her some distance into the country, her appearance having at- tracted general attention, and finally, in the the midst of a fearful snow-storm, came upon them the runaways by the roadside, and rescued them, though with considerable difficulty, as Mabel fought her captors like a tigress. She was at last overcome, however, and brought to Anderson's house in the city, where she was not long in recovering under the kind care of Ella. In a short time she was able to recognize those about her. The poor girl was overwhelmed with grief when she learned the narrow escape Bertie's life had in the snow storm, and it was quite evident that Mabel was not sane after she took the boy from the city. She had no recollection of anything from the time when she left her aunt's house till she found herself in a sick- bed at Anderson's with her rival in l6ve attending to her wants. At first she shrank from Ella's touch, not being able to conceal the light in which she regarded her, but it was on- ly necessary fQr Albert to say reprov- ingly, "Mabel!" to change her in a moment. Afterward she altered com- pletely, received Ella with embraces, and seemed really to repent the pas- sion which had carried her beyond   the control of reason. Mrs. Davis had been kept in ignorance of her flight until she was again in safe hands, when she was summoned from Long- wood, and came in haste. On her return, Mabel left Anderson's house for her own homes a changed girl in many respects. She continued the fast friend of Ella, and came often to visit her and her child. Fred Steel, the Detective, was often closeted with Anderson at this time, and people wondered what business the two could have together, which seemed to be of so much interest to both. For several months, Steel worked on, until, one evening, he informed his employer that he was ready to make clear the matters which had seemed so strange to all for these many years. "Can you clear up all the strange things which have perplexed me?" asked Anderson. "If you can, I shall consider you a genuine wizard." "Patience," said the Detective, "and I will promise to do 'even that -to clear up every dark place, and make it all plain as the day." Steel was as good as his word. Before many weeks he had liis train of powder laid, and stood with match in hand, ready to fire it. He planned a little party at Pearl street, to which were invited Anderson and Ella, Mabel Le Moyne, Mrs. Davis; Mr. Harvard, Mr. Jenkins, Mrs. Haynes, Harry Johnson, Mr. and Mrs. Samuel Harrison, and a few more tried friends, when the Detective assumed the role of wizard with great success. "Ladies and Gentlemen," said he, "Iet me first introduce to you, Mr. John Raymond, of San Joaquilla, South America." The folding doors opened, and two officers entered with a handcuffed   man between them. There was an exclamation of surprise. The new comer was a tall gentleman with clus- tering auburn hair and a scowling countenance. There was some mys- tery here, as all knew in a moment. For every one in the room who had seen Hawley, the dark gentleman, knew it was he and no one else, that stood before them now. "John Raymond," said the wizard, "be seated while you case is attended to!" "You have done bravely, you Steel, to bring me here, and address me by a false name," answered the other. "But if it is any pleasure to you, go on, by all means. I am handcuffed you see, and cannot prevent you." The wizard turned quietly to the quadroon. "Sam," he said, "call Annie Andrews."' Even the well-trained mind of the prisoner was not proof against an exhibition of a severe shock when that name was pronounced.  And when, a moment later, a modest appearing girl, with dark hair and eyes, and a sweet expression of face, entered the room timidly, supported by Harry'Johnson, he fairly turned white with dismay. "Was it not enough," cried the prisoner, bitterly, "that these hordes of liars should be hired to come here and abuse me, but you must join with them! Do you. want me mur- dered by these hounds, or why have you come here?" "O, John!" cried the girl, weeping. "I would do you no harm for the world." "No, I suppose not,' returned he, mockingly. "Gentlemen, you have done bravely in bringing this woman here. Do you know what she is? and has been? Look at her shrink and   cover her face I Bah! For years, good people, this woman was my mistress!" "Hold!" cried Harry, coming for- ward. "Say another word and I will strike you to the floor. Are you so much of a coward that you would blame that poor girl for being what you made her? If she has done wrong, what name shall we apply to your crime?" "It is for you to threaten, when you are a dozen against one,"' said Sherman, contemptuously. "But we waste times Put your fine woman on the stand and let us see whether she is as good at invention as the rest of you." Still weeping, Annie came forward. "Do you know the prisoner, Miss Annie?" "Yes, sir." "Where did you make his acquaint- ance?" "In Hillsdale, five years ago." "Will you give us the particulars " "Yes, sir. He came\ from the city into Hillsdale for a rest during part of the summer, and after we became ac- quainted, he asked me to marry him. He had just fallen heir through his -father's death to a, large property in South America, and asked me to mar- ry him and go with him to his new home.  Knowing that my parents would object, he persuaded me to go secretly, saying that I could write soon and obtain their forgiveness.. Trust- ing him implicitly, I did so. On get- ting me into his power, however, he refused to fulfil his word. If there is any disgrace upon me now,",said An- nie, sobbing, "he is to blame for it and not I." "We went South, and in .San Joa- quilla, his home, we were quite happy for a while. Then a desire seized him   to come North, and getting control of part of the property, most of \which was not to be sold, he took me to this city again. For reasons of his own, not wishing to be recognized by his form- er friends, he procured a preparation for darkening the hair and skin, which soon changed us both beyond recog- nition. ,By using. the preparation often, we were enabled to keep up the disguise and remain unknown." "This is the way," explained the wizard, "that our friend became known as the ' dark gentleman. " "By too great a love for this man," coutinued Annie, "I was led to assist him in one of his schemes which proved to be the ruin of us all. It seems that before he knew me, he had been in the poorest circumstances, and had been making a living in any way which presented itself, principally, I fear, by dishonest means. I am cer- tain of one thing, that he obtained Work in Mr. Anderson's warehouse for the purpose of robbing it, where he succeeded in taking some two hundred dollars from the safe, and laying the appearance of the evil deed upon the book-keeper, Mr. Fogg, who fled the country when he found he was suspect- ed. At another time, when disguised as an old man, he attacked Mr. An- derson in his own house, now torn down on Pearl street, and would have taken his life had he not been prevent- ed by the timely entrance of his ser- vant. When we came back to the North, he vowed to bring Mr. Ander- son'down to the dust, and in my wick- edness and blindness, I assisted him." Annie paused, being overcome with a fit'of weeping. Raymond looked savagely at her, and gnashed his teeth in impotent rage. After a moment the witness continued: "The plan he proposed was to ruin   Mr. Anderson completely at one blow. He wanted me to induce Miss Ella to leave Mr. Anderson, while he got Harry Johnson into his power, and de- stroyed the warehouse business.. I confess to my share of the work with sorrow. By representing to Miss Ella that Mr. Anderson would be dis- graced by her remaining with him, and that she could best show her love by leaving him, I persuaded her to fly with m% one evening in a closed carriage and take a western train at Homer's Station. On returning I be- came convinced that John had more than one motive in view--in short that he designed to leave me for Miss Ella if he could win her for himself. I accused him of it when I returned, and his conduct c onvinced me that my suspicions were correct. In his anger he cast me from him, and left the house. From that day to this I have never met him face to face, or had any communication with him whatever until to-night." Raymond was about to speak again, when he looked up, and his eyes met a sight which stopped the words on his lips. Albert Anderson, till now in- visible, stood leaning on a table by the doorway, regarding him attentively. The dark-brown hair of the young man was brushed carefully from his high forehead, his clear eyes were sweeping over the assembly, and his head was inclined a little to one side in sober thought. Ella stood by his side, with one hand caressingly placed on his shoulder, while on her other arm was held the child, clinging about her neck, and mingling his tresses with her own. The prisoner looked, and noted the trio, and said nothing. The wizard turned to the quad-   roon again. "Call Henry Johnson," said he. When Harry had taken his stand, the Detective commenced to examine him. It seemed as if the wizard took delight in asking his questions in a legal style, as though he were fro wizard at all, but the High Prosecuting Attorney of the State. "This man," said Harry, "made my acquaintance at the warehouse when I was on the high road to prosperity, and by his arts induced me to for- sake my business, and to drink and gamble with him. At last he got me wholly into his power by lending me' money to play away, and then persua- ded me to take the amount from the safe. On the night the warehouse was burned, he induced me to leave America by saying that I would be accused of setting the fire if I re- mained. I believe the prisoner set the fire with his own hand to complete his ruinous work." "Do you know whether he is the same man who passed for John Ray- mond in Hillsdale?" "He is, sir. I recognize him now, though I did not when he was dis- guised by the darkness of his com- plexion." "Do you know Miss Andrews?" "I had seen her, sir, in Hillsdale, before she went with the prisoner. But her dark complexion deceived me the same as in his case." The wizard turned to his prisoner: "How do you like the investigation as it proceeds?" he asked. "Very much, indeed," said Ray- mond, carelessly. "I had no idea any man could be capable of such wonderful acts as I hear ascribed to myself here. Really, Steel, it is almost fabulous."   "We have not finished yet," said the Wizard. "Mr. Anderson, we will trouble you next, if you please." The prisoner was uneasy enough as Anderson stepped forward to testify. He dreaded to- have that form too near, and was almost stifled by the thoughts which came with him. How everything he had labored to do against him had failed! How every shaft he had launched at him had turned and entered his own body! As Anderson ran his fingers through his hair to throw it from his forehead, and turned upon him, the prisoner could scarcely draw his breath. "Do you know the prisoner, Mr. Anderson?" The young man was fresh from the side of the girl he loved, and her whis- pered petition that he be not too hard upon his enemy still rung in his ears. So he simply answered: "I do know him, sir." "Please state what you know of' him." "Carrying my memory back, now," said the young man, "I see him first at my warehouse, where I cautioned Mr. Fogg to be watchful of him, as I had heard his reputation was bad. Aftef the warehouse was eibbed, I remember the fight I had with him at the. old house in Pearl street. The night the warehouse burned, I see him on Commercial Street accusing Harry of the crime. Later he prefers charges of murder against me which he knows are false, and attempts to assist in arresting me. Again, he is on the stand in court, solemnly swear- ing my life axway, and later yet, as I sit on the scaffold, I see him in the crowd awaiting my death. That is all, Mr. Steel." Raymond breathed easier as the /    witness retired, and assumed his old air of bravado. As the testimony thickened around him he grew more reckless, and had clearly made up his mind to take whatever came in a bold spirit, knowing there was no help for it. "Miss Ella," said the wizard, "A word from you, if you please." Giving Bertie to Anderson, Ella came forward. "I wish to say nothing against this poor gentleman, sir," said she. "He has already been punished enough for what he has done. He never harmed me, sir, and only tried to have me marry him. I would not consent to that, of course, but I could not blame him for loving me." Ella paused and blushed as she closed the sentence. "That will do, then," said the wizard, 'kindly. "You may retire, Miss Ella." The wizard then announced that the main evidence was all in, and with a flourish of a legal appearance asked if any person was present who would defend the prisoner. A fine looking young gentleman, to whom' Ella and Albert were speaking, and who was unknown to others present, except the wizard himself, the latter having, by his' magic arts, brought him there, arose and said he would volunteer for the defence. "Perhaps the ladies and gentlemen present would like to hear your name," suggested the wizard, smiling. "Certainly, said the young gentle- man. "I am Henry Walden, Jr., of the Bar, an acquaintance and, I trust, a friendi of Miss Ella Anderson." The prisoner, who had watched the young gentleman narrowly,} now be- came convinced that he was only de- s/   signing to make a pretence of defend- k ing him, and objected strongly.  "Come, Steel," he pleaded, "this is c shameful. This farce has gone on h quite long enough. I shall bring this  affair into court if I am compelled to b submit to the imposition any longer." "I do not think you will," said the p wizard, quietly. "I will assign Mr. 1 Walden as your counsel, and you had t better say nothing until we hear what r kind of a defence he can make out r of so hard a case as yours seems to 1 be." As he could do nothing else, Ray- r mond assented with an ill grace, and t Walden, Jr. commenced his plea. To begin with, he said, he would ] not attempt to impeach the testimony  of any witness present, but would  merely endeavor to show just how  much there was proved against his client. As to the greatest charge-- attempted murder, that was years ago, and if the attempt was made, it had certainly proved a failure. The pris- oner was charged with falsely swear- ing the life of another man away, but that man, too, had been almost mirac- culously saved, and here again the prosecution failed. The young law- yer followed down the successive charges, disposing of them as best he could. As he finished, Anderson came forward and took his place. "My friends," he said, "I believe it is common in law in some cases for a court to consider an acknowledg- ment of satisfaction from the party aggrieved, as sufficient reason for the discharge of a prisoner. I was going to make a proposition. We are all friends together, I believe, and what transpires here will be held secret by all." The audience acquiesced, wonder- ing what was coming next. Mr. Jen-   kins sat by Mr. Harvard, and the two lawyers conversed in whispers of the case as it proceeded. Mr. Jenkihs had just whispered that Anderson was "the strangest young man," when Al- bert continued: "I think, my friends, that it will be plain to all of you that I and mine have suffered more than any one from this man's evil passions. But I re- member that for many years I had no more control over my hates and dis- likes than he had of his. Long trial, and many hard lessons have taught me reason. Yet I cannot but think that perhaps but for circumstances differing in our experience, I might have been as bad, or even worse, than the prisoner. Thinking of this, and thinking too, of how in various ways. he had his emnity to me increased by myown violent and hasty acts, I wish before you all to say he has my full for- giveness for what he has injured me or mine. And that, so far as my in- fluence goes, no hand shall be further lifted against him." Anderson's remarks were received with a tumult of applause that shook the mansion from end to end. Ella - threw her arms about his neck, sob- bing and thanking him through her tears. The good Mrs. Haynes, Mrs. Davis, Harry and the others joined in the cheering. Mabel looked admiring- ly at the young man, and cheered too. r Mr. Jenkins, thunderstruck, informed Mr. Harvard, privately, for the hun- dredth time, that " he never did, -he was positive he never did-." Mr. r Harvard joined the group that crowd- 1 ed round Anderson, and called him t his dear boy. John Raymond, the y prisoner, grew more uneasy than be- fore, and looked vacantly at Steel for - an explanation, till Annie Andrews came up to him crying and told how   Mr. Anderson had agreed beforehand that he should not be harmed, or she never would have come in to testify as she did. Then the prisoner took the girl gently on his knee and sheltered her poor head, where it had lain so often before, on his own bosom. When the assemblage turned to resume their seats they were thrilled to see a tear in his eye, and knew then that there was still left in him some element of goodness. Anderson, looking up, saw Raymond, with Annie in his lap, and was so overcome with joy at the suc- cess of his experiment, that he could not proceed for a moment. Seeing their leader so deeply affected, the others began to cry again. And when they had done so, they all felt the bet- ter for it. When all was quiet again, the xyiz- ard turned to Anderson, and addressed him in low tones. "My part of this affair should be about ended," said he, pleasantly. "You have acted it well," said An- derson, in reply. "But you must re- main until it is all settled." "Very well," said Steel. "By the way, there is one matter I had nearly forgotten. In looking up this case I have discovered another fact which I decided not to make known to you until you had announced your inten- tion to avoid prosecuting our'prisoner. Did you ever notice a resemblance between you and Raymond in feature!" Anderson was perplexed. "Others have noticed it," he said musingly, "but I regarded the idea as absurd." "I liave noticed it," said the Detec- tive, "even when the prisoner wore his dark complexion. Now that is gone, the resemblance is striking." l   "Well, what has this to do with me?" "Slowly, if you please, Mr. Ander- son. What was your mother's maiden name?" The young man started, and looked almost frightened. "Catherine Raymond." "My dear fellow," said Steel, plac- ing his hand on Albert's arm, "I be- lieve this young man to be her younger brother. In fact-I know it to be the case." "How do you know it!" asked Al- bert. "Because his father was Alexander Raymond of San Joaquilla. Miss An- drews will tell you that it was in that country they lived in South America. I purposely kept you from the room while she was testifying that every- thing might go smoothly. There is no doubt, Mr. Anderson, that this is the truth." The young man paused a momsnt to think. "Does he know it?" he asked finally. "No, " replied Steel, "nor any one but you and I. It can be kept from him, if you choose, altogether." "I will speak with Ella about it," said Anderson, soberly. "Then I will let you know what I will do." In a few minutes he came back, with a brighter face. "The dear girl says I shall own him, by all means. It may make a man of him, she thinks. Ask the people to excuse us, and we will step into one of the other rooms." Raymond wondered what was to be done next when he entered the room with Annie, and found there waiting Anderson, Ella, Mrs. Haynes and Mabel.  But he took the  chair   assigned him, and Annie drew hers to his side quietly. ' Mr. Raymond/" began Anderson, earnestly, "Had you ever a sister?" The question was a simple one, but it brought'tears to Raymond's eyes. "Yes sir, a good girl, some years older than myself, whom my father disinherited for marrying against his will, She was my only protection from his wrath, and when she left home, I soon followed." "Do you know the name of the man she married?" "No, sir," replied Raymond, "I asked once, and was told never to mention the subject again. I only know he was a miner, and that they afterwards moved to the north." "Her name was Catherine, was it not?" asked Anderson, with a trem- bling voice. "How did you know?" said Ray- mond, looking up in surprise. "I will tell you," said Anderson, biting his lips. "I am the child of that miner and his wife." "You!  It was all the astonished man could articulate. "Yes, I. We have both had our share of the passionate nature of Alexander Raymond developed in us, and. we now find it springs from the same source. Whatever'we may have been to each other, the same blood is in our veins." The prisoner was perplexed how to act. " This is too much to bear in one evening," he said. "I hardly know what to say." Ella left Albert, and coming to Ray- mond, put her hand on his shoulder tenderly. "Say you will harbor no more en- mity against us," she said. '- Say you will do all in your power to remedy   what wrong you may have done. Say you will be a better man from this night forth." Standing by the man's side, the girl might have been an angel point- ing him to the ,path of. right. He saw the path and stepped into it. "I do say it," he replied. "A harsh father threw me upon a bad world when I was young, and I have let it drift me at will these years. For all I have done against you; I ask your pardon, every one of you." 'This was more than they' had ex- pected. Anderson was emboldened to proceed still further. "We intend to make no. prosecu- tion against you, Mr. Raymond," he said. "You will be at liberty to go when and where you choose. But one thing I would ask. There is a true woman by you who deserves your hand. - Do not forget her devotion, whatever you db." Raymond took Annie gently by the hand and pressed her to his bosom. "I suppose you think, all you peo- ple," he stammered, "that there is no good in me, and you may well think * so from what I have done. But if you E will call a justice, 1 would like to be married now, if Annie is willing to take me after all this time." Anderson joyfully sprang up and 1 opened the door. The first person he saw was Henry Walden. "Are you a Justice of the Peace?" he asked, smiling. "I am," said Walden, Jr. "We wish to have a marriage cere- mony performed," said Anderson. -"Throw open the doors, and oblige r us by repeating the service." Raymond took Walden's hand warm- - ly, and said he was glad he had come i to finish the defence, which would now be complete. In five minutes   more there was a blushing bride to be kissed, and the sober details of a criminal trial made way to admit a bridal party. Supper, which had waited till now, was served, and at a very late hour the party dispersed. Some of them congratulated Anderson on the suc- cess of the evening's work, but he gave all the credit to the wizard, and 'was quite satisfied to leave it in that way. Being pressed to remain, Mr. and Mrs. John Raymond passed the night under the Pearl street roof. Henry Walden, also, who had been sent for quietly by Ella and the De- tective, remained at Anderson's house. Mabel went home in her aunt's carriage, bidding her friends good-night shyly and modestly, for she still felt constrained in their .pres- ence. Walden, Jr., asked so many ques- tions about Mabel the next day that Anderson agreed to go over to the Davis mansion with him that he might become better acquainted with her. Walden praised her beauty to the skies, and Albert told him aside she was just the sort of woman he needed for a wife. 'The young lawyer received this intimation slightingly, but contin- ued to visit Mabel, nevertheless, even after he was obliged to go to her house alone. And before many months Madame Rumor-but, then who can believeher?-was heard to say on all sides, that Cupid had won another victory. CHAPTER VII. PARTING WORDS. What better time to bring my story to a close than when the Dark Gen- tleman has resolved to take-an up- right position among the fellowmen   he has held his hand against since the cradle? What better than wlen James Albert Anderson finds rest in a true wife's love, after his most Dan- gerous Experiments in Love, Law, and Literature? What better than when Ella Haynes finds her unpar- alleled sacrifice repaid by a mother, child, and the man for whom she was willing to give up them all! What better time to close my story than when all of its characters are marvel- ling at the course- pointed out by the finger of God, to bring each one to his proper knowledge and apprecia- tion of the better natures of the others! I know of no better time. For the years since these characters acted their parts, there might be much to say. But at the climax of the work which has drawn them into compan- ship, they shall be left before your eyes. One evening, when Mrs. Haynes was sitting in one of the Pearl street parlors with Albert and Ella, she explained the manner in which she had discovered that Ella was her daughter. "When I was left a widow, nearly twenty years ago, I went to New York to live with my child. I understood dressmaking, and readily obtained employment in a large establishment, where I earned enough to support myself and. Ella. After I had been there two years, however, I was at- tacked by a violent fever, and lay unconscious for many weeks. When I recovered I was told that my child had died with the same disease, and' been buried some time before by the authorities. Too weak to doubt what was told me, I lay in my bed some days longer, selling everything, almost, to pay for my room and physician.   When I was well, at last, I went back to my work with a heavy heart, feeling that I was indeed alone; and having no care, now, for anything but my business, I worked very hard. After a few years, I opened a shop of my own, which I kept until I became ill again, and was advised to come to this city for my health. Here I took one of Mr. Anderson's tenements at Giles's Row, and lived quietly under my maiden name of Haynes, which I had borne since I left my early home. "As to my taking charge of the lit- tle ragged girl, Mr. Anderson brought to me"-Mrs. Haynes smiled lovingly at Ella-"You already know. Albert laughs now to remember how I said that Cross street was such a bad /,neighborhood, and hesitated at first about taking Ella at all. Afterwards, as herappearance was improved, I began to love her for the resemblance she bore to the little girl I had lost. Thus matters went on, until, I came with Albert and Ella to Pearl street, and then left there again to go to New York once more. At the latter city I espied, one evening, an advertisement in one of the - daily papers which at- tracted my attention. It said that if Mrs. Laura Haynes, who formerly kept a dress-making shop on Broad- way, would communicate-with the sign- er she would learn something to her advantage. I immediately answered the advertisement, and the next day received a note asking me to call at a certain number in one of the lowest streets of the city. Procuring a car- riage, I drove to the place.. In a miserable room I found lying the wo- man who had tended me when I had the fever. She was very sick, and could only tell me that Ella was not dead, but had been sent to an orphan asylum, when it was believed I could   not live. She did not know to what asylum, and was much troubled in mind over her sin, in concealing the truth from me so long. I did what I could for the poor creature, and then went about the hard task of finding my long-lost girl. "After going through more than a dozen different asylums, I found the right one, and learned that Ella had been taken by a Mrs. Jones, living on Cross street, in the very city I had left. At this time I received word that Ella had gone from Albert, and hastened back with an aching heart to find that I had recovered a daugh- ter only to lose her again, Albert will remember that I asked him one day particularly about the woman who had adopted Ella before him, ahd his replies convinced me that my dear girl was the same one I had been caring for for his sake. Now she is restored to me, never to be lost again. Mrs. Haynes clasped Ella in her arms as she concluded her recital, and Anderson looked on with a tear in his eye. What a good, motherly woman she was! Harry Mithlell, while attending to his duties at Brown's Wharf, could always find time some day in the week to ride to Hillsdale, and pay a visit to Miss Sallie Slader at the Hillsdale House. It came to be an acknowl- edged fact before long that a wedding was contemplated between the young people, and Sallie received blushingly the congratulations of her friends when the news spread over the -village. l Samuel Slader, the avaricious, satis- fled himself that Harry was doing well I in business, and likely to have money [ enough, before he gave his consent to t the proposed marriage. Even then he  t lamented the fact that the hotel would I have to be cared for by hired help, and   the matter wore hard upon his miserly mind. And one day, when he did not appear at dinner at his usual time, a search made by one of the men ser- vants revealed a limp and lifeless body hanging to one of the rafters in the old, tumble-down barn. Sallie cried, of course, for her father's death, though he had never merited love from her. But a young bride's sorrow is of short duration, and in her husband Sallie found a friend which more than took the place her father had held in her heart. The newly married couple lived in one of the houses in Giles's Row for a time. Anderson soon disposed of his share of the, warehouse to Harry, and the sign was changed to H. Johnson & Co. Under the new title the business pros- pered finely, and is, in fact, leading all competitors to the present day. When children came to brighten Harry's home, he removed his family to Hillsdale, where the old farm house, after some needed alterations, served as a healthful and pleasant place of residence. A new railroad carried the young husband to and from .his work, and the advantage of'the clear air of the hills could not be over-esti- mated for the little ones. With a faithful, loving wife, good children and a pleasant home, Harry lives, the happiest man within many miles. John Raymond. What of Aim? A change, greater in his case than in any of the others, was wrought, Wishing to leave the place where he had been known only in evil acts, he set out with his wife Annie for Aus- tralia. Farmer Andrews and his good wife died before this occurred, happy in the affection of the daughter they had mourned as lost so long. In Australia, Raymond found a good field for his adventurous habits, and   liking the country well, he bought out the estates he had taken charge of, and became an extensive land proprie- tor. His family"was increased by a son and daughter, and his beautiful home became the abode of peace and contentment. Annie never had occa- sion to regret the day she testified at the wizard's mock trial. Her life was given much to works of charity, and especially was she noted for her kind- ness and sympathy for the unfortu- nate of her own sex. Many a poor girl, who might otherwise have been permanently lost, rejoices in her de- liverance and ascribes her happy fire- side to Annie Raymond's assistance. May it not be that He who guides us through this world had planned this from the hour she left her parents' home with her promised husband? Mabel Le Moyne became, in time, entirely cured of her passion for An- derson, and when Henry Walden, Jr., asked her hand, she gave it to him with her whole heart. He felt how much the prize was worth, and she appreciated fully the noble nature of the young attorney. Walden, Sen., was graciously pleased to give his consent to this union, as it was clear- ly not below his son's station. As the town of Walden furnished little business for a gentleman of his pro- fession, Henry built a fine residence in the city, near Pearl street, where he went with his young bride. As the years passed he obtained a good practice, and was always noted for his high minded and upright ways. Mabel had afterwards children of her own, which she could pot "love too much." She was a frequent visitor at Pearl street, and both Ella and Albert were always glad to see her enter their, doorway. Mrs. Davis stayed Wvith her niece after marriage,   and they often used to laugh at the old lady in a pleasant way, remember- ing how averse she was to having An- derson adopt his own child the day he found him floating in the river. Of the other steadfast friends a few words must suffice. Mr. Harvard and Mr. Jenkins continued to have 'the charge of Anderson's property, while the young author gave his at- tention principally to literary work. The quadroon, Sam, stayed with his wife Luna, on St. George's Island, raising wonderful crops, and never tiring of telling how he had rowed out to save Anderson when he came -up the Bay, and how the young man had vanquished the Detective, when he was running for the boat that night. Fred Steel received the present of a pretty cottage house in the city, for his share in the work of unveiling the mysteries which per- plexed them all so long. By certain representations made to Governor Smith by friends, Steel received the position of Chief of Police, in place of the unaccomodating man who held the office before him. His fame as a diligent and efficient officer has never decreased. And last, O, Albert Anderson! Thou whom I have loved for thy in- 'dependent, noble, manly spirit! Thou whom I have pitied in the midst of thy Dangerous Experiments in the search after truth I Thou who hast been led through difficult places unto the perfect realizing of so many problems! Thou, who hast stumbled so many times, and hast struggled so hard to regain thy feet! Thou who ha:, taught us that life is nought and principle is eternal. Thou, who yielded so willingly to the teachings of experience, even when they were   diametrically opposed to thy theories, long cherished and loved! Thou who hast come, through all, to a right un- derstanding of that great problem, Life. What of thee? A private wedding joined him to the truest and best woman who :ever lived. A woman who had once given him up for very love, and would have refused to marry him to the last from very love, had he not whispered, "Darling, for baby's sake.," When the ceremony was over, he took his bride on his arm, and led the way up the stairs to the long-forsaken Tower Room. A great painting hung there, repre- senting a beautiful Virl sitting in the lap of a handsome lover. Books lay there they had read together. Num- berless articles were there that re- called the first days of their love. A little roll of lozengers lay in a basket on the table. The roll he had picked up when he found his girl that ireez- ingday by the lake.' He pointed it out to Ella, and when it started a bright tear from her blue eyes, he bent tenderly and kissed it away. The next autumn, Albert and Ella left the city and crossed the seas to England. From England they trav- elled over much of southern Europe with their child until the spring, when they visited the countries farther north. Since their marriage, they had become  more inseparable than ever, and An- derson was convinced that in this state only could he look for perfect happiness. After three years of living abroad, they came home with another little Ella for Bertie to love. Filled with new ideas, Albert wrote much, and his little wife grew prouder of him every day.  The world, or at least the best and worthiest part of it, ,        eW   smiled on the productions of his pen, and all was well. Secure in his loving family, James Albert Anderson asks for nothing more.   And Ella, truest of womenl You "who gave up everything for your idol, even the idol itself/" Are you not well repaid for your sacrifice?   THE END.    
         
       
   
