
    ----CITATION----
        Sauzade, John S., (1828-). Mark Gildersleeve .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC7700
    ----FULL TEXT----
         
      
         
            Mark Gildersleeve 
            
               r
'  AE r_
LLL;     i' y L
S   ru

NEW YORK:
G.    . Carleton &amp;  Co., Publishers.
LONDON: S. LOW, SON &amp; O.
 M.DCC.LX

,        ;fin         .;w  .  r,  i '(,'
"f                                  -                                      ,

MARK CIlLDERSLEEVE.
BY
OHN S. SAUZADE.

{ t
i

I
C
7
r
!
i                                1
.
. f  _


" 'e.
Ali 1
t             a   4ts
ep
-L-BE V Es

\1

I.

ntered according to Act of Congress, in the year 1873, b
JOHN B. BSAUZADE,
In the Oftie of the Librarian of Congress, at Washington.
Stereotyped at the
WOMEN'S     PRINTING     HOUSE,
56, 58and 6O Park Street,
New 'York.

ALTHOUGH of much importance as a manufact-
uring place, Belton is noted chiefly for the beau-
tiful water-fall to which the town, in fact, owes
its existence.
Here the Passaic, interrupted in its placid
flow by a rocky barrier, takes an abrupt turn,
and plunges in a narrow sheet of foam adown
a deep chasm, formed in one of nature's throes
ages ago, and then with wild swirls rushes an
grily over a rocky bed, until spent and quiet it
skirts the town, and winds away appeased and
.pellucid-despite the murky drain of dye-houses
-through woodlands, fields, and pastures green.
Ere reaching the cataract, however, the river is
tapped by a canal which serves to feed the flumes
that run the many mills of Belton ; and through

0, C
4.
e


6

MARK G LDERSLEEVE .

this race-way the diverted waters speed on their
busy errand, starting cumkersome overshot, un-
dershot, breast, and turbine wheels into .action,
that in their turn quicken into life the restless
shuttle and whirling spindle.
From the cliff, at the head-of the cataract, one
may completely overlook the town, a cheerful
hive, compactly built, and consisting chiefly of
long brick factories, with little belfries, and
rows of small white wooden dwellings.     The
whole; is neat and bright; no canopy of coal-
smoke obscures the blue sky, and but an occa-
sional tall chimney or jet of vapor is seen, for
here steam is dethroned, and the cheaper motor
reigns supreme.
The river side, the cliff, the falls, in short the,
water-power belongs and has belonged for gen-
erations to the Obershaw family.   In days of
yore, when Whitman Obershaw ran a saw-mill,
and tilled, a clearing hereabout, his worldly pos-
sessions, it is safe to say, were notsuch as to as-
similate his, chances of salvation to the facility
with which a camel can go through a needle's
eye, and it was reserved for his son, John Peter
oG-,r haw, t reap the beneit of the accident

G&amp;R hDBRLEBVE,,

7

that had put his ancestors in possession of the
site of Belton. And when you consider the
present magnitude of the place, its many mills,
and the enormous yearly rental of the water-
power, you will not be surprised to learn that the
costly stone mansion on the cliff, with its impos-
ing front, its beautiful grounds, conservatories,
and lodges, is the residence of the Hon. Rufus
Heath, son-in-law and heir of John Peter Ober-
shaw, who built it.
There is a mural tablet in the apse of St.
Jude's, Belton, inscribed to the memory of,
JOHN PETER ORERSHAW,
OF THIS TOWn,
Through w* munflcenee this Church

WAS ERECTED,
A,D. 184a.

1I

HIS C   tRI5TIA VImTafs ENDInuMan IM TFOALL.
An epitaph which bore out the proverbial reputa-
tion of its kind in being essentially a lie-.-a lie in
black and white, for old Obershaw had no Chris-
tian or even Pagan virtues to speak of, and was
rather disliked- by all for a selfish, avaricious,.

I

,
,r;
', '  ?
L'
5
t
, '
-
^ .
__
=J- '
r
i [    _
Y      ,.


2WAR1 GrThDRSI E

8            MARI GILDERSLEEVE.
nonagenarian. Perhaps the only commendable
act of his life was the erection of the small, but
handsome church in question. Yet, even this
was looked upon as but the placatory offering of
a prudent worldling, about to appear before the
final tribunal, and anxious to propitiate the
great Judge. Moreover, those who knew the
most about it asserted that the church would
never have been built, nor. a dollar spent to-
wards it, had it not been for Rufus Heath, who,
during the last years of his father-in-law's life,
had the entire control of the estate, owing to the
latter's age and incapacity. Doubtless these as-
sertions were true, for neither dread of God or
demon could ever have wrung an unremunera-
tive stiver from old John Peter Obershaw's
clutching fist, as he belonged to the orthodox
school of misers-the class who live but to accu-
mulate, and find all their pleasure in that sound,
wholesome vice which prolongs life, and betrays
not to a fool's paradise.
To the last he was steadfast to his idol. For
years previous he was confined to his room by pa-
ralysis, dead to all affections save love of money,
and vegetating in an easy chair stuffed literally

with gold; for the senile miser, like a' mag-
pie, slyly secreted coin in every nook and corner
of his chamber. In this second childhood, it was
necessary to quiet him by giving him money to
toy with, and musty accounts and deeds, which
he pored over with the vacuity of an imbecile.
To the end the ruling passion swayed him. At the
last moment, when the taper of life was about
giving its expiring flicker, he asked his attend-
ant to bring him a surveyor's map of his es-
tate. "And, James, tell . . tell Mr. Heath I
want to see him . . . see him at once. Must
buy Van Slyke's farm if he'll sell it right ..
sell it right. But he wants too much . . . too
much. No.. no., can't give it. No6. .  o.
haven't . . got the money. Soon as I am well
well . . and strong, I'll go out and have a look
at it . . . look at it. Soon as I am well, and go
out . . . go out. But can't 'ford to pay much.
No . no. Van Slyke's farm '11 square the addi-
tion. But, I can't pay much . . . can't 'ford it;"
and a nervous twitching of his pale thin lips, as
he mumbled to himself, showed teeth still sound,
though worn down like an old mastiff's. lie was
a man of large frame, gaunt, bowed with age,
1*


MARK GILDERSLEEVE

MA~rGILDERLE

and the dried yellow skin of his face resem-
bled wrinkled parchment. When the map was
brought to him, he stared vacantly at it with
faded eyes that looked like dull agates, then re-
lapsed into a still slumber with the map griped
in his long, talon-like, bony fingers, as if some
one would steal it from him. Aroused by the
entrance of his son-in-law, he again mumbled-
" Where's the map . . . map 2 Heath, see Van
Slyke 'bout the farm and don't let him . .  let
him cheat me. I ain't quite . . . quite so strong
now, and . . .and they'll cheat me. Ah, they're.
a close, sharp set. . . . Soon as I am well I'll
go . . . I'll go..
The last words were uttered in a faint whisper ;
no further sound came from the moving lips;
the death film crept over his eyes, and rhe was
gone. He had lasted well and long, for avarice
is a powerful antiseptic. The dry heart burns to
the socket, and the selfish miser was blessed with
an euthanasia that a saint might have envied.
The nearest physician, Dr. Wattletop, was
swiftly summoned, only to return discomfited, as
he expressed it, by that omnipotent leech who
carries his lancet at the end of a snath.

The fall of so heavily laden a body into the
great ocean of eternity created, to use a homely
simile, an unusual splash, and occasioned no little
commotion in Belton.
" Why, sir," said Mr. Madison Mumbie, the
eminent paper-maker, addressing Dr. Wattletop,
in the agitation of the moment, "Why, sir, Mr.
Obershaw's wealth is e-normous! Probably the
richest man we had in the State. Yes, sir "(with
a sigh), "I regret to say it, we have lost a gentle.
man, and a Christian, who leaves at least two
millions of dollars. Yes, sir, two millions at the
lowest calculation-he leaves all of that!"
"Leaves! "repeated the doctor. "Aye, there's
the rub. Now, if he could only have taken the
two millions with him, there would have been
something in it, wouldn't there 2"
This view of the case did not strike Mr. Mum-
bie, who was himself rather inclined to accumu-
late, as cheerful or encouraging, and he went his
way in a meditative mood.
Mr. Mook, the gentlemanly undertaker, in
walking twenty rods from the residence of athe
deceased, was accosted by not less than a dozen

10

11.


MARK GWILDAEsLVE.
anxious inquirers eager to learn the slightest par-
ticular relating to the sorrowful event. To whom
Mr. Mook, with that mingled air of neatness, de-
spatch, and meek resignation to the decrees of
Providence, which characterized him, replied
in a serious and very proper way. The informa-
tion imparted was invariably received by the
questioners with expressions of deep interest and
sympathy, as if they had lost a near and dear
friend. It is sad to add, though, that one indb.
vidual,George Gildersleeve, the noisiest quidnune
in Belton, was on the contrary rather discourteous.
and disparaging in his inquiries and comments.
George is a man of substance, and proprietor of
the Archimedes Works. A burly fellow of mid-
die age, with chest and loins like an ox, coarse
mouth, hale complexion, end sandy hair shorn
close over an obstinate head. Rich. and purse-
proud, he. proclaims himself a plebeian, and in
keeping therewith is generally seen divested ofi
coat and hands in pockets. Thus he appeared in
the doorway of his counting-room as Mr. Mook
came.down the street, and passed the Archimedes
Works. Decorous and. mournful Nook affected
not to. see Gildersleeve, dreading him. as a bore

I

MARK GILDR5L]~vE

13

and button-holder ; but the stfratagem was futile,
and bluff George, hailing the undertaker as
"Commodore," brought him-speaking nautically
"First-class obsequies, sir, have been ordered,
Most elegant rosewood casket, new pattern silver
handles. Everything in the most rekerchey and
approved style. Funeral on Wednesday," Mook
replied, in a tone of mild reproof, in answer to
Gildersleeve's query as to when he was going to
put old Uncle John to bed with a shovel.
Mr. Mook 'took pride in his profession. He
was the inventor and patentee of a burial casket,
that for "ease, elegance, and comfort," as he ad-
miringly described it, was equalled by few and
surpassed by none.
" Well, well, Co'nzodore "-it was a habit of
Gildersleeve's to d\ib his friends and acquaint-
ances with incongruous titles, whether prompted
thereto by affectionate impulses or a peculiar
sense of humor, we are not prepared to decide;
sufficient to say that the undertaker was invari-
ably addressed as "Commodore " by the master of
the Archimedes Works ; similarly, Mr. McGof-
fin, the highly respectable, though illiterate shoe-

(

/f
'r'
^,


14

MARK GILDERSLEEVE.

maker, was styled "Judge;" Dr. Wattletop,
"Major," etc., etc.
"Well, well, Commodore," said Gildersleeve,
leaving his door-step and planting himself on the
sidewalk so as to bar the way and hold the under-
taker to converse, "so we go. If the man with
the pitchfork don't get old Uncle John, what the
deuce is the use of having a man with a pitch-
fork, eh ?"
Mr. Mook coughed behind his hand, and tried
to look as if he hadn't heard the remark, as he
said, "Great loss to Belton, Mr. Gildersleeve."
"Great loss!" repeated Gildersleeve. "The
old cuss! Why, confound him, he drove his only
son, Johnny Obershaw, to sea when he was but
fourteen years old, by his infernal meanness, and
the little monkey was lost .overboard less than a
month after; and now here's Rufe Heath, that I
recklect when he hadn't two coppers to jingle on
a tombstone, slips in, bags the whole pool, and
puts-oanmore .airs than a French barber. Now
I'll tell yo what it is, Joe Mook, you know me
well enough, d you know that I can show as
lovely a little peof rocks as the next man, and
you know, too, th t I sweat for it. Yes, sir, by

KGILDRSL]FyiE

15

the hokey! on this spot (with a flourish towards
the works), where my grandfather shod Gineral
Washington's horse in a rickety old shanty that
you could have capsized with a kick, I began
when I was knee-high, with a hide apron on,
swinging the sledge and paring hoofs late and
early. Yes, sir ! late and early, warm or cold, I
stuck to it, and no thanks to any one, until you
see what I've come to! And is there any airs
about me? I think not; and there's many a man
in this place that's as proud as a peacock, that I
could buy and sell twice over. But I can say
this, and you know it, that I've always been, and
always intend to be, as independent as a hog on
ice. That's me!"
And that was he. For if Mr. George Wash-
ington Gildersleeve prided himself on anything,
it was on being free from "airs," and indepen-
dent as a hog on ice-a comparison, it must be
confessed, not particularly happy, and that con-
veyed an entirely unintended impression. How-
ever, it caine pat to him, and he flung it defiantly
in the teeth of the world. Mook had heard those
sentiments before, hence he was not vividly im-
pressed by them, nor altogether pleased with the

f

°
,
R


MARK GILDERSLEEVE.

MAIUK -, C F RLiVfl.

diatribe against his present patrons. Still, he was
not prepared for their sakes to remonstrate, and
perhaps offend a future customer, for the under-
taker, "thankful for past favors," as he stated in
his advertisement in the Belton Sentinel, "and
soliciting a continuance of the same," seemed to
think himself exempt from the common lot of
humanity, and set apart to take under all Belton
forever. So he gave a non-committal shake of
the head, as he contemplated the pavement, and
then, profiting by a pause in Gildersleeve's ha-
rangue to escape, glided with soft steps away to
his avocations.
The funeral was an imposing one. Many of
the mills were closed-all, in fact, that could con-
veniently stop working. The Archimedes Works,
though, remained in full blast, as the proprietor,
true to his independence, did not feel himself any
more called upon to close his shops for old John
Peter Obershaw's death, than for that of any
other mere acquaintance. Gildersleeve, however,
as a concession, was at the interment, with his
coat on too, somewhat subdued, perhaps, in tone
and demeanor, but keeping up, nevertheless, an.

animated political discussion with a fellow-citizen
as they stood in the churchyard. Nine-tenths of
the population of the town gathered to witness
the funeral. There had not been so much excite-
ment in the place since the day of the "Grand
Triumphal Entree" of "Peabody's Combination
Menagerie and Hippodrome."  The people lined
the streets through which the procession passed,
and filled St. Jude's, where the services were held.
No less than three ministers were in attendance,
and a bishop extolled the virtues and success of
the decedent in a way to persuade the auditors
that they mourned a well-spent life. Then the
church bell tolled a requiem knell as to the family
vault the corpse was borne along, attended by
pall-bearers, who had been consistently selected
from among the wealthiest acquaintances of the'
family. The Hon. Rufus Heath followed as chief
mourner, with his young daughter; then came
his son and daughter-in-law; and lastly, a. multi-
tude of relatives and friends.
So passed away this old man, leaving behind a
vast fortune, that had brought him but the gain-
bler's joy-but the arid pleasures of the gold.

$

16

17

"^ r.T r.  f t ,
1.

N                          -  ' T Y                       '
T{x iii. 3 - _       r _                   -                          f
y7 i,,j    v            t     r             V                                 t             '   r
? ,                                                                     ,


18           MtA~1t GuhbERLEEWE.

glutton, subsisting on the fumes of money ; the
odorless fumes whose cold astringency withers the
emotions, dries the heart, and leaves man with
but the instincts of the vulture and fox.
John Peter Obershaw left no children to sur-
vive him. His only son, as Gildersleeve had said,
was lost at sea, and his daughter, Mrs. Heath, had
preceded her father on the long journey years
before. As he owed much of the augmentation
of his wealth to the judgment, vigilance, and
superintendence of his son-in-law, it was not sur-
prising that the estate was found devised to him,
the only being who had ever secured the favor
and entire confidence of the .old miser. Town
tattle hinted at."undue influence" and "imbecil-
ity." There might have been more in this than
idle gossip, but as no one was interested other
than the devisee's children, in making any investi-
gations, he inherited without opposition.. A great
accretion of wealth this to .Rufus Heath, who
stepped thus quietly into the shoes of the late
owner of Belton, for that town was in reality
little more than an appanage of the Obershaw
fantily.  The evidences of this were patent on

MARK  ILDER  EV E.19
every side. A walk through the principal street
showed you Heath Hall, where political meetings
to distract, and balls and concerts to delight, the
denizens took place-; Obershaw House, a tavern
of dimensions vast, where the lodging and dining
rooms were too gorgeous to be comfortable, and
only the bar commodious and consolatory; the
Belton Bank; the Passaic Insurance Company;
the Savings Institution, with its bee-hive sign--in
all of which Rufus Heath's claim of ownership,
or sovereignty, gave' further indication of the
wealth of the Obershaw estate. In short, you
could not turn without being reminded how fort-
unate and important a man was the present heir,
whiloin a poor lawyer's clerk and now owner of
the truly Pactolian waters of the Falls of the
Passaic.


MARK GILDERSLEEVE.

II.
THE villa on the cliff would probably have
excited but little attention in any country where
chateaux or palaces abound, but it was looked
upon by the simple people of Belton as a magnif-
icent dwelling. After a stranger or tourist had
seen the falls, he was invariably driven by the
ciceroning hackman, desirous of lengthening the
ride and increasing the fare, to view Mr. Heath's
residence, that being considered next in impor~
tance as a noteworthy object. It was built of a
gray stone, on a site that commanded a fine pros-
pect of the town and of a long stretch of river.
There was no attempt to preserve architectural
unity in the structure; in fact, it exhibited rather
an incongruous medley of orders. The front was
partly Italian, with a circular portico supported
by slender Ionic columns. The rear was Eliza-
bethan, pieced out with an extension for a pict-
ure-gallery; on one side were oriel windows, and
the other was flanked by a keep, with turret and

embattled parapet, which gave the edifice rather
a frowning appearance, as if the host were pre-
pared for any emergency, and could treat visitors
with bountiful hospitality, or a narrow cell in the
donjon, as he saw fit and felt disposed. The inte.
rior was in keeping with this pretentious exterior.
A stately staircase led up from a wide entrance
hall tessellated with marble tiles, on either side
of which were dining and reception rooms. These
and the boudoirs and bedchambers were all re-
splendent with gilt and elegant frescoes, The
surrounding -grounds, or "park," as they were
called, were spacious. There were terraces with
marble urns, fountains, velvet lawns, interspersed
with brilliant beds of flowers, and rows of shapely
evergreens. In short, no expense had been spared
to construct a habitation capable of impressing an
ordinary beholder with the wealth and impor-
tance of the dwellers therein, and if corroborative
evidence were needed; the porter at the lodge
would carry conviction by referring to the elegant
iron railing inclosing the grounds, which he as-
serted, with emphatic pride, "cost more'n twenty
thousand hard, ringing silver dollars! A fortune
for any one."

21

N

GILDERSLEEVE.

20


MARK GILDERSLEEVE.         28

22          MARK GnLDERSLEEVE.

Do not suppose that old John Peter Obershaw
was in any way responsible for all this pomp and
splendor. Spending money, much less extrava-
gance in any shape, was totally foreign to his
habits or tastes; and he had been led into the
outlay requisite for all this grandeur insensibly
and unwittingly. We say insensibly and unwit-
tingly the more positively, as the aged invalid
could not be said to have had any sense or wit of
his own, during the last years of his long life, and
was completely under the dominion of his son-in-
law, who planned and built the villa in accord-
ance with his own ostentatious ideas.
The morning after the late owner of this prince-
ly residence had left it for the narrow quarters of
a churchyard vault, the new one arose early and
descended from his bedroom for a short walk in
the fresh morning air. A very handsome man of
fifty or so, with a compact figure, keen gray eyes,
high receding forehead, slightly bald, and hair
prematurely silvered.  Perceptible on the firm
surface of his pale, close-shorn face, were the
lines of decision and shrewdness, and that seal of
pride conferred by the possession of wealth and
authority-a chilling expression commonly called

aristocratic, and which is simply refined vanity.
Musing with downcast eyes, hands clasped behind
his back, and head uncovered, to and fro on the
terrace paced Mr. Heath. Before descending,
he had opened the door of his father-in-law's
room, and looked in. The huge stuffed arm-chair
was still there in its accustomed place, but vacant;
the padding ripped up-done to look for secreted
coin. His staff lay in one corner, a worn hickory
stick, his companion for years,-but the old man
was gone. He had been for years but an inert
dweller, verging on imbecility, an incumbrance,
and yet what a void he had left! fHow silent
and empty the chamber seemed ! Mr. Heath
closed the door softly, and went gravely down
the stairs. He was glad to breathe the refresh-
ing air and feel the sunshine. As he paced, he
would occasionally stop and glance over the
sloping lawn, and towards the river whose shin-
mng current bore thrift to the town and tribute to
him. All these possessions were now his, abso-
lutely and entirely his. Without longing for it,
he had expected and looked forward to this day.
He remembered, when a poor clerk, how he had
coveted the wealth of the proprietor of Belton


MARK GILDERsLEEVEi,       25

24~ ARK ~GILDERSLEEVE.

Falls, as he watched him, meanly clad, haggling.
with some  shopkeeper over a few coppers. He
remembered his joy when a stroke of luck put
him in possession of the capital necessary to
carry out a scheme whose consummation had en-
abled him finally to attain his present position,
first, by securing Mr. Obershaw's confidence, and
eventually, a less difficult feat (favored as he waft
by an uncommon share of good looks), the hand
and heart of his daughter. And now they were
both gone, and he was left loaded with wealth;
wealth unmeasured-wealth to flatter every wish
and further every ambitious project. The fruit
was ripe and had fallen. He bit it, but no lus-
cious juice rushed to the bare papillae; the taste
was insipid and dry as ashes ! Every realization
is but an after-taste, but this was almost bitter.
The morning sun spangled the dewy grass; and
darted brightly through the tree boughs. Birds,
carolled sweetly, and all nature rejoiced, but his
spirits seemed to sink under the increased weight
of riches, and he felt burdened. For an instant
an unaccountable depression seized him, and he
hardly heeded a gardener who approached to
speak. The man noticed his master's pre-occu-

pation, and waited patiently and respectfully un-
til his attention was drawn towards him. He
wanted to know if Mr. Heath would like to look
at a beautiful exotic that had just bloomed that
morning. MI'. Heath mechanically assented, and
followed the gardener to the greenhouse. Usu-
ally he was imuch interested in the fine collection
of plants in the conservatory, but now he listened
dully to the man's enthusiastic praises of the rare
flower, and looked at it with indifference. With-
out replying to the gardener. he -walked away
slowly, musing as he went on that sermon so
often repeated but never heeded-the vanity of
earthly possessions. "Dross, dross, it is so," he
soliloquized, "but how long it takes to learn the
lesson! IHow many envy me ; how many whose
first thought on seeing me, whose first wish, is to
be as I am! What a supremely happy and bless-
ed man I must be! Ah, the monks are wise.. .
But fame-the incense of popular applause-a
name to live in future generations; something
that the grave cannot extinguish, and death take
away, that is the goal to strive for! Aye, ambi-
tion is the only passion worthy a master mind."
He re-entered the house and went to his library.
2


/

r-t
}Y
xF
41
i} Sr
/ 1(
r t,'
r,^
"r
T'
t. {t
;rz
"   t-    , V
-    t'   vt
," r V
At
f    sl
irk   I                                 '
A A
ti            _                              ,

MAR~K GIhDE1E5LEE VE.

The sight of his accustomed work-room seemed
to banish the shadow on his countenance. " Bless-
ed-blessed labor, what a balm thou art ! " he
apostrophized as with a sort of eagerness he
threw himself in a chair, seized a pen, and fol-
lowed a new train of ideas.
A singular fit of despondency this in one bask-
ing in the smiles of Fortune, and who had so
steadily enjoyed her favors; for the capricious
dame had marked Rufus Heath for a' favorite
long ago by a significafit gift plainly indicative
of her partiality. This gift, or stroke of luck,
was the winning at his start in life of a lottery
prize, which sudden afluence, judiciously in-
vested, had led to the splendid culmination now
apparent.
Mr. Heath was in his library, a large room ad-
joining his bedchamber, which also answered the
purposes of a study, and was furnished with leath-
ern-covered chairs, and surrounded by closely-
tilled book-cases of polished walnut, surmounted
at intervals with marble busts of the-giants of in-
tellect. A long table in the centre of the room
was covered with maps, manuscripts, and works of

MARK GILDERSLEE71,

27

reference. At one end Mr. Heath sat intently
writing. His early habits of industry he still
carried almost to excess. Idleness filched but few
moments from him, and by a thorough system he
managed to perform an amount of labor that
would have been deemed prodigious in a close
student. The work that engrossed the most of
his time, the opus magnus, was the preparation of
a pandect wherein the constitutions, statutes, and
enactments of the various States of the Union
would be digested and reconciled into ont har-
monious code of laws. The mere gathering and
collating of material for this purpose involved a
formidable amount of labor, and when in addi-
tion to this we consider that he supervised the
accounts of the estate and kept up a voluminous
correspondence with statesmen and politicians in
all parts of the country, we may imagine that he
had but few spare moments.
Behind him on the wall hung the symbol of his
weakness-an illuminated achievement intended
to represent the arms of the Heath family.
Should a visitor's attention be attracted by this
heraldic device, the host was only too happy to ex-
plain the mystery of crest and quarterings, and

26

r
n
,


MARK GILDERSLEEVE.

28          giIgg GILDE1RsLEEVE.
to dilate on his lineage, tracing its common origin
with that of a distinguished English ducal family.
For Rufus Heath, in his heart of hearts, despised
republic and had no faith in the stability of its
institutions. His ideal of a government was an
oligarchy, with him  and his .like as oligarchs.
Outwardly he professed the stanchest republican-
ism and devotion to equal' rights.
So absorbed had Mr. Death become in his oc-
cupation that he heeded not his daughter as she
came to ask him to breakfast. She entered the
study softly, and almost timidly, for she held disturb
father in a certain awe and deedtdiur
him. It was only when she laid her hand lightly
on his shoulder that he discovered her presence.
"Father, good-morning," said she, seeking'to
press her lips to his cheek.
" Ah Miss Edna. Is that you?" he replied,
impassively, and slowly disengaging her arm from
his neck. "Good-morning. Leave me, chid;
I will be with you in an instant."
There was no unkindness in the tone, but there
was no warmth. The few words that had passed
between them revealed enough to indicate to an
observant witness the history of a daughter's

heart, eager .for tl affection of a parent insulat-
ed from domestic ties by egotistic worldliness.
Mr. heath laid aside his pen, passed to his
chamber, and arranged his toilet preparatory to
the morning repast. He then descended the
stairs as if a chamberlain preceded him ; entered
the breakfast-room with a stately nod to those
present, and took his seat at the table gravely,
and with an apology for his tardiness. After
a scrutinizing glance around, a preparatory pause
followed, and then, bending low his head, he in-
yoked the Divine blessing. The meals in that
family were not at any time those cheerful family
gatherings that diversify existence so pleasantly,
but serious proceedings, conducted with severe
propriety, the head of the house being exceed-
ingly punctilious on that score. On this morn-
ing, naturally enough, a greater solemnity pre-
vailed, and the breakfast was passed almost in
silence. Mrs. Applegate, a widow, and elder sis-
ter of Mr. Heath, presided. She had been in-
stalled housekeeper on the death of her brother's
wife, and occupied the post at table that should
have devolved upon young Mrs. Heath, but that
lady was too indifferent, and disinclined to any

wall

29


MARK GILDERSLEEVE,         31

30          MARK GILDERSLEEVE.

exertion to fill it. She was a Creole by birth, the
daughter of a Yankee machinist who had mar-
ried the very wealthy widow of a Cuban planter.
This machinist, Sam Wolvern, previous to going
to the West Indies, had learned his trade in Bel-
ton, and after the death of his wife returned
there to live. Dying soon after-his arrival, he
left Mr. Heath sole guardian of the person and
fortune of his only child, Mercedita Wolvern.
So well did the guardian manage his trust, that
he succeeded, in due time, in transferring his
ward and her fortune to the custody of his son.
This occasioned some unfavorable tattle, but as
Mercedita Wolvern, a pale, feeble girl, had no
vill of her own, it may have been justifiable in
somebody else's having one for her, if matters
had turned out well. Unfortunately they did
not, for her husband, with all the arrogance
and vanity, and none of the brains of his sire,
was possessed of sundry vices, which rendered
him anything but an agreeable life companion.
A spoiled boy, indulged and toadied, he easily
fell into the snares that beset rich men's sons, and
grew up a worthless and dissipated man. His
father designed him for the legal profession, but

"living like a hermit and working like a horse,"
was not at all to the taste of young Hopeful.
Hence, in the hope that an early marriage might
reform him,-to say nothing of the pecuniary ad-
vantagesof such a match,-his father had given
him poor weak Mercedita, and her fortune, to
wife. And a wretched connubial existence she
had of it, for Jack Heath added drunkenness to
his other unamiable traits, and was hardly sober
from one day to another. This, of course, cre-
 ated much uneasiness in the father's mind, who
naturally hoped that his son would at least per-
petuate the family name with dignity, if he were
incapable of shedding lustre on it.
"Where is John?" inquired Mr. Heath of his
daughter-in-law, as he noticed his son's absence
from the table.
"Sleeping, I presume, sir," replied the young
wife; " I heard the clock strike one before he came
in last night."
"What! again? And last night of all nights!"
escaped from the father's lips. Ordinarily his
pride prevented him from showing displeasure at
his son's misconduct, in the presence of others,
but that John should have so far forgotten him-


32          MARK GILDERSLEEVE-

self as to indulge in a debauch on the very day
of his grandfather's funeral; that he should have
gone in his mourning clothes to the town bar-
rooms, his usual haunts, and swaggered tipsily
along the streets, a spectacle of shame, furnish-
ing food for scandal for a month-for the Heath
family were considered in the light of public per-
sonages, and every act of theirs was commented
on by all Belton-this, all this, touched Mr. Heath
keenly. His daughter, who was seated beside
him, noticed his clouded brow, and asked him
with anxiety, if anything ailed him?
"No, nothing, child," he replied, and turning
to the colored servant in attendance bade him
summon John at once. Edna, the daughter, had
but just returned from boarding-school, where
she had spent the greater part of three previous
years; hence she knew but little of her broth-
er's habits, and imagined that a lack of respect
on his part was all that had disturbed her usually
imperturbable father.
It's the old Obershaw blood in him-the coarse
tastes which he inherits from his grandfather, re-
.flected Mr. Heath with bitterness. The old man
had the same propensity, but avarice smothered it

MARK GILDERSLEEVE.           33
in him. With a sigh he turned toward his daugh-
ter for consolation. His looks dwelt on her, and
it seemed as if it were the first time he had ever
noticed her beauty. How lovely she has grown,
thought he. A true Hfeath-if she were only a
boy! Still, why should she not aspire, and reflect
honor on me ? I shall be Governor of this State,
next a foreign mission, an ambassadorship. All
she would need is the opportunity. Did ever
coronet grace a fairer brow? My daughter a
countess or a marchioness-is there anything im-
possible or improbable in that ?'
While Mr. Heath was in the midst of his fan-
ciful cogitations, the object of them was eating
in a matter-of-fact way, and in Utter unconscious-
ness of the ambitious views she had awakened.
Nevertheless, there was everything to justify her
father's pride and hopes; for Edna, a girl of
seventeen, had a graceful figure, a cheek as deli-
cate as a rose-petal, soft steel-blue eyes with
dark lashes and brows, hair the hue of ripe
wheat, and that indescribable sweetness of ex-
pression in which American maidens surpass all
others. Her plain, black dress, relieved only by a
white collar and wristbands, did not in the least
2*


MARK OILDE SLjEEE

MARK GILDERSLEEVE.

detract from her appearance, but, on the con-
trary, enhanced her clear complexion to bril-
liancy.  So her father thought, and his heart
swelled with new-born pride in the possession of
such a child. There was an unusual tenderness
in his voice when he questioned her, "Edna,
what are you going to do this morning ? "
It was a purposeless question, meant simply to
attract her attention towards him.
Edna turned her face towards her father with
an inquiring look, for the query was a very unusual
one. "I intend to call on Ada Mumbie; I left
my crochet-work there on Monday, and am going
after it. Have you any errand for me, sir ?"
" No, daughter. Crochet-work is certainly im-
portant business, and should not be neglected,"
replied her father with a smile. "I hope, how-
ever, you have other and better ways of employ-
ing your time."
"I trust so, sir," said Edna.
"I wish, my child, you would. adopt the plan
of writing me a letter every day, or every other
day will do. It matters not how short it may be
--a few sentences will suffice. But I want it
done as well as you know how, and have you bestow

thought upon it. Let it consist' of a criticism on
some book you have read, or some picture you
have seen. For instance, you might begin to write
criticisms on the pictures in the gallery in succes-
sion, varying them, however, with such opinions
of other matters, persons, or objects as may strike
your fancy. But what I want are your ideas and
none other, expressed in the best language you
are capable of. You will do so, will you not?"
"Certainly, father, if it pleases you."
"Well, but I don't want you to do it solely be,
cause it pleases me. I want you to acquire a
taste for such employment. I was looking over
some of your letters from school the other day,
.and I was very well pleased with the style, but I
noticed a lack of thought. True, you are still
young, and can hardly be expected to evince much
of that, but I want to cultivate your mind in
that respect, and now is the time to begin. Bear
in mind, skill in epistolary writing is a great ac-
complishment; especially so in a woman," con-
tinned Mr. Heath; then turning to his daughter-
in-law he said, " Mercedita, I have an appoint-
ment at the bank at ten. I shall be back at
eleven. Tell John I shall expect to find him in

85

_ ,
" r.
' ,

34

a


MARK GILDERsLEEVE.

MARK GILDERSLEEVE-

the library waiting for me at that hour. I have
business for him. I want some copying done.
Mr. Frisbee has more than he can attend to now;"
and Mr. Heath rose to leave. As he opened the
door to go out he stopped for a moment, reflect-
ively, with his hand on the knob, "Edna."
"Yes, father," replied the yoing girl, rising
and going towards him.
"When you return from your visit, come up
into the library. I shall select some works I wish
you to read. Don't. fail, my dear;" an   Mr.
Heath, before leaving, imprinted a light kiss on
his daughter's forehead. She received it with an
expression of pleased surprise. It was the first
time he had ever favored her in that way. So
unwonted a demonstration of tenderness on the
part of her brother even caused Mrs. Applegate
to pause in the act of pouring out her fourth
cup of tea, and stare at the scene. "Edna seems
to be in favor this morning," she remarked when
Mr. Heath had left, "but John, I am afraid,
Mercedita, has greatly offended his father, and is
very much in disfavor."
"O Mercedita!" added Edna, " do beg him to
apologize to father at once, and try and make

amends. Just think how troubled father must be
at grandfather's death, and that Jack should add
to his grief is too bad. Ifo, please, entreat him,
Mercedita, to-"
"I do not pretend to have any influence what-
ever over John. I might have, if he had any con-
sideration for my feelings; but as I am siure he
has never shown the slightest, of what use would
my remonstrances or pleadings be ?  He may
follow the path he has chosen without any inter-
ference from me," answered the young wife with
an affected indifference.
"Father expects hint at eleven," said tdna,
"and I hope Jack will be punctual. I wouldn't
have father continue angry at him for the world.
I wonder if James has told him ? I'll go and
see;" and she hurried offin her anxiety to recon-
cile her father and brother.
"I think, iMercedita, if you took John in the
right way," said Mrs. Applegate, "you might do
a good deal with him. He is as good-hearted a
person as ever lived. He's whimsical, to be sure,
and perhaps we all indulged him a little too much
when he was a boy. I'll not deny that. But then,
yon know, a little coaxing will go a great ways."

37

36


88M1~~LE~L~V3.MARXK GILDERSLEEVE,                    89

A shrug of the shoulders was the only reply
the young wife deigned to make to this advice,
and Mrs. Applegate continued.: "Now, I've had
a good deal of experience in these matters, and I
recollect very distinctly, when Mr. Applegate and
I were first married, he was as full of whims and
notions as could be, and naturally it was a source
of trouble in more ways than one to me. Mr.
Applegate utterly detested cats for one thing--
couldn't bear 'em; indeed, he had such a great,
detestation of them, that I verily believe it actu-
ally affected his system; though, to be sure, he was
consimptive, and subject to constant attacks of
dyspepsia. I've heard of many such cases. Not
long ago I read in the papers an account of some
distinguished person-I forget the name, now,
though it's a familiar one-let me see, I think it
was Alexander the Great, or it might have been
Luther, I won't be certain which ; but at all
events it was some well-known and distinguished
person who was thrown into, convulsions every-
time he saw a black rabbit-no, not a black rab-
bit, but a drawn sword. It was another well-
known person who was affected in a similar way
by a black rabbit. Now this goes to show-"

What this went to show we are unable to say,
for at this point, Mrs. Applegate's instructive,
though somewhat irrelevant discourse, was inter-
rupted by the entrance of Jack Heath, who was
evidently in no amiable frame of mind, and
under the influence, probably, of the whimsical
state alluded to by his kinswoman. He took his
seat in sulky silence, and then began to scold the
waiter. lie found fault with everything--the
steak was tdo cold, the eggs too hard, the tea
too hot, the toast too dry, etc. The two ladies
looked on without venturing a remark. From
the dull, sodden look of his eyes, and his care-
lessly brushed hair, Jack's rest and peace of mind
had evidently been badly disturbed. He was
large and unduly corpulent for so young a man,
being barely two-and-twenty, although he might
have passed for ten years older; and on his fat
face the freshness of youth had given place to
the inflamed flush of the toper. After a few
mouthfuls he ,could contain himself no longer,
and vented his spleen in a grumbling tirade.
"Seems to me there's a devil of a row here
about nothing. Can't have- a bit of comfort in
this house. Come home, tired and want to have

MAItX (IILDERSLI@EVE.


MARK GILDERSLEEVE.        41

my sleep out, and along comes James drumming
away at my door as if the house was on fire;
says the old man sent him-then Edna, she must'
come bothering me to get up. Confound it,
some of you women are at the bottom of it all,
I'll bet. Been complaining to the old man, have
you 2"
This last was directed with a scowl to his wife,
who, without condescending to reply, arose from
her chair and wrapping her shawl close about her,
swept out of the room indignant, leaving Mrs.
Applegate to confront Jack's temper alone.
"A young feller's a fool that get's married,"
continued Jack, addressing no one in particular.
Mrs. Applegate, feeling this apothegm to be,
rather a reflection on her sex, and one which
ought not to pass unchallenged, ventured a mild
qualification.  "Well, John, it depends very
much whether the fellow, as you call him, is of
a domestic disposition or. not. Now, there is
great difference in people, and especially in mar-
ried couples. There was Mr. Applegate, for in-
stance; I'm sure no one could have led a happier
life, and he often used to say to me, 'My
dear-"

"I say," repeated the nephew, dogmatically,
"that a young feller's a fool that gets married.
That's all. And he'll find it out sooner or later,
I'll bet he does. To have a woman always tied
to you, that goes whining around and complain-
ing if a feller comes in late, or has been on a
little jamboree with a friend and gets a little
set up. I'd rather be hung and be done with
it."
"Dear me, John, I wouldn't go on so about
it," said his aunt, placatingly. "To be sure I don't
ever remember .of Mr. Applegate's going on a
jam-jamoree, as you call it, as he was always
afraid of dampness and night air; but then you
must admit that it isn't the pleasantest thing in
the world to be wakened out of a sound sleep, or
to sit up waiting for some one to come home,
particularly if you are anyway delicate; and
young people should bear in mind that the easiest
way is always the best."
Mrs. Applegate added a few more mollifying
sentences of the same general application, until
Jack, having by this time finished his breakfast
to be appeased, and remarked in rather
more peaceful tones, that he "was off his feed,"

a

40         MARK GILDERSLEEVE,


MARK GILDE1SLEEVE           43

42         MARK GILDERSLEEVE-0

a statement which might well cause an onlooker
to wonder pow much provender Jack consumed
when he was "on his feed." Then pulling out
a case, he struck a match and lit a cigar, re-
marking as he did so to his aunt: "Old .man
want's me in the library punctually at eleven,
does he? Think I see myself. Not to-day, thank
you. If I'm there I guess he'll know it. As
the Frenchman said, 'IPve got to fry some fish,"'
and off he lounged to the stables.

THE Hon. Rufus Heath, in requesting his son's
attendance in the library that morning, had reck-
oned without the "Horse-show."  For that day
was the concluding one of the County Agricul-
tural Fair, which, though held ostensibly in
honor of sundry overgrown vegetables and patch-
work quilts, derived its principal attraction from
the "Grand Exhibition of Blood and other
Horses," which terminated it. The exhibition
consisted in a number of fast nags showing their
points, and competing for prizes on a race-course
conveniently near the fair-grounds. To attend
these "trials of speed" was far more to John
Peter Heath's taste, than to be immured in his
father's library copying tedious documents.
Hence he did not deliberate long over the pater-
nal mandate, and was soon spinning away com-
fortably behind his trotting mare to the fair. He
stayed there the greater part of the day; swag-
gerng over the grounds with a knowing air;


MAR~K GILDERISL EEViE.

noisily backing horses by bets with stable-men
and blacklegs, and losing some of his wife's
money which rather soured him, for Jack had a
decided streak of stinginess in his character, and,
disliked extremely to part with money that had
not ministered to his selfish gratifications. So,
to console himself for his ill-luck, he repaired to
a public-house hard by, and cracked bottles of
wine with boon companions until the remembrance
of his losses supervened, and he became ob-
streperous ; swore he had been cheated ; grew
abusive; drew off his coat to fight anybody, and
but for the interposition of the landlord, might
have received a severe pommelling. In this con-
dition he mounted his vehicle to return home.
The spirited little-mare, having been kept so long
waiting at the tavern door, had become restive,
and it was with some difficulty that she could be
held by the hostler while Jack got into the wagon.
He gathered the reins, flung a dime to the man,
and the mare released, sped off like an arrow.
The sun was setting as Jack crossed the bridge
over the Passaic at the north end of town, and the
toll-gatherer noticed that the driver was (as -he
had often seen him  before) in liquor.  Jack

Heath was not at any time a very pleasing object
to look at, and still less so when in his cups,
for his tipsiness bore an expression of defiant
arrogance that boded no good to intermeddlers.
Thus, flown with insolence and wine, along he
went, lashing his horse and driving recklessly up
the principal street of the town, in utter disregard
of the wayfarers, whom he roughly ordered with
an oath to get out of his way. Just at that nio-
ment a young man, with a slight limp in his gait,
was crossing the street, who seemed in no haste
to accelerate his pace at Jack Heath's bidding.
A well-dressed young fellow he was, of about
twenty, with a dash'of pretension in his appear-
ance, and a light in his eye that betokened a spirit
not likely to brook dictation.  Jack, unfortu-
nately, was not in  condition to discriminate, and
- -    as he approached the pedestrian, yelled, with a
curse, "Ki-hi-cripple! Out of the way, or I'll
run over you!" / No sooner were these words
uttered, than the young man, pale with anger,
raised a light cane he carried, and struck fiercely
at the horse's head. The nervous animal, fright-
ened at this sudden attack, sprang off sideways,
dashing the light jagger against the curb, and

MARK GILDEL SLEEVE.

44

45


46

MARK GILDERSLEEVE.

sending its occupant headlong to the earth. Such
an excitement in the quiet street ! The disaster
occurred directly opposite McGoffin's "Shoe
Emporium," and that honest tradesman ran out,
leaving Miss Winter (a highly respectable maiden
lady whom he was about measuring for bootees) to
expose in her agitation and stockings her some-
what large and bulbous feet to the brutal gaze of
a gathering crowd.. The colored barber from over
the way hastened to the spot with a razor in his
hand, followed by a half-shaved client with lath-
ered face and bib on, and then in quick succession
loungers from the " Tanglefoot Saloon " and cor-
ner grocery. Meanwhile, the cause of all this
trouble,.whom we may as well introduce to the
reader at once as Mark Gildersleeve, forgot his'
resentment on seeing the plight of his insulter,
and hurried off for a physiciaii, under the impres-
sion that, perhaps, Jack Heath was killed. There
he lay in the kennel, stunned, with a cut on his
sconce and a contemplative crowd about him.
Discussions arose as to whether he was dead or
dying, and a glass of brandy was put to his lips
as a test ; it probably being deemed conclusive that
if he did not drink, or at least taste the beverage,

MARK GILDERSLEEVE.47
he must be very nearly in the former condition.
As he did neither, his case looked hopeless, and
some one suggested removing him to the apothe-
cary's shop; but Mr. Snopple, the photographer, a
little fat man who diffused an aroma of collodion
about him, protested strenuously, reminding the
by-standers that it would be a violation of the
law, and render a person liable to prosecution to
disturb the body until the coroner came and an
inquest was held. Advice not altogether disinter-
ested on the part of M1r. Snopple, who, in his profes-
sional zeal, saw at once an excellent opportunity
for an effective picture, and did not wish the
group disturbed while he hastened off to his
studio for a camera. Unfortunately for the ad-
vancement of art, before he returned, George
Gildersleeve, the ubiquitous, appeared on the scene.
Here was a man of action. He-took one hand
out of its pocket, felt of Jack and pronounced
him "right enough," and then addressing the
crowd said, "Lay hold here, boys, some of you,
and toss him into this cart and' get him home.
He's hefty,"
And "hefty " he was, sure enough, and it took
some tugging from strong arms to lift the dead

4


48          MARIE GILDEnsLEEVE.

M.AL( GILDERSLEEV-,

weight of his bulky form into a grocer's cart near
at hand, for the racing jagger was badly broken,'
and the mare had scampered off with the thills.
By this time Mark Gildersleeve had returned
with Dr. Wattletop, and the latter accompanied
Jack to his home, where the fears of his relatives
were speedily allayed by his being pronounced
not seriously injured, but uncommonly drunk.;
When Dr. Wattletop returned to his domicil
he found Mark Gildersleeve awaiting hini. " How
is he, doctor ? " eagerly asked the young man.
"Oh bless you, he'll do. The devil takes care
of his own. Born to be hung, you know, and so
forth. A simple contusion-lastered it up-
he'll be all right when he gets sober. HIe's just
ugly enough, too, to appear worse than he is, and
frightened his sweet little sister out of her wits.
The others, though, didn't seem to mind it so
much, and no wonder. But what makes you so
anxious about him ? When you came after me,
you looked so pale and agitated hopes arose of a
profitable patient. They're not so plenty now as
they might be, and I welcome them with joy and
gratitude," said the doctor, tapping Mark famil-
iarly on the shoulder.

"I feel so relieved, doctor; I was afraid he
might be seriously hurt. He provoked me, and I
retaliated. Had I noticed or known that he was
drunk, perhaps I would not have minded him.
He fell so heavily that I feared he might have
broken his neck,"
"lie might, I grant, but he didn't, More's the
pity, perhaps, for his friends and family. Es-
pecially for that poor wife of his, whom he will
certainly kill in time, if he don't kill himself first.
But, so you were the one that caused all this row,
el? You didn't say anything about that before.
ow dared you, rash youth, raise your ire against
the heir-apparent? Fear you not the wrath of the
prince.regnant? Know ye not that for thrift to
follow it is as necessary now, as ever, to fawn to
wealth and position? Anchylosis, my boy, inva-
riably affects the pocket, mind that!?'
If it were not for--" began Mark, with a de-
ternuned look, which he sddel chcet
Saddwith a quiet smile, "No one knows better
tan you, doctor, what little store I set by thrift,
ny considerations of that kind. I trust my
ambition aims higher than that."
resh and admirable adolescence! Roseate
3

49


50          MARK GILDERSLEEVE.
age, when the glistening soap-bubble, Fame,.hath
more charms than substantial shekels ! So be it,
and well it is so, for without those soft illusions
the aridity of existence would be insupportable,
the world a desert and life a blank. And now,
my boy, while I wash my hands bring out the
chess-hoard. I'll give you a bishop to-night, and
unless I am interrupted by some silly biped seek-
ing admittance to this sphere of trouble, or some
still sillier one reluctant to leave it, we'll have a
snug hour or two of enjoyment. So, votary of
Caissa, to chess-to chess."
Soon the polished dome of the doctor's capa-
cious head, and the curly black pate of the young
man, were bent in intense study over the check-
ered field of mimic battle. In silence passed the
moments until a scratching at the door announced
a visitor. "Ah. Dagon! Open the door, Mark,
and let him in, please," said the doctor.
The young man complied, and a large black
Newfoundland dog walked gravely in towards
the doctor, and rested his head on his master's
knee to be caressed. "True friend--faithful heart!
Mark, three winters ago that dog saved my life.
I was called out the night of the great snow-

MARK ,GIIJDEiSL4E EVE

storm to go to the Furnaces, and but for Dagon
your most obedient wouldn't be here. I've told
it you before, I believe, so I'll not repeat the cir-
cumstances, but I love to dwell on them. Last
spring he drew a child out of the canal; he would
allow himself to be cut to pieces for me, and yet
they say he has no soul! The Turks say the
same of women. Are we any wiser ? They say,
too, he has no reason. Look at his expressive
sagacious eye. The gibbering idiot has a soul
the vilest miscreant reason; but this noble animal
has neither, 'tis said, and man's vanity invents in-
stint! O man--man, what a conceited fool thou
art ! Oheck, eh? ilEa! a bold move, my boy."
The doctor's speculations were cut short b a
brilliant stroke on the part of his adversary and
as the game is becoming more absorbing, and the
players less communicative, we will leave them
to digress a little.
Dr. Basil Wattletop had been an English army-
surgeon, and as such had spent much of his time
in foreign parts. fow he came to drift int
Belton, no one knew posiiv   , although t
Was a-legend that he had stopped there one day,
on his way from Canada, to view the cataract,

51


52A.EK GILDERsLEEVE.
and had remained in the town ever since. Be
this as it might, there he was and had been for
many years, enjoying a lucrative practice, as he
doubtless well deserved, for he was a skilful prac-
titioner. An odd-looking man he was, a bachelor
of very uncertain age, yet hale and vigorous; in
person short and rotund, like the typical Briton
of mature years, with thin wisps of brown hair
brushed around his bald crown, and large search-
ing dark yes set in a long, grave, rubicund ace.
In attire inclined to carelessness, but scrupulous
as to polished shoes and immaculate linen, wear-
ing collars perilously starched over a throttling
black stock, the buckle and tag of which promi-
nently ornamented his nape. Partial indeed was
he to this stock, despite the sway of fashion. In
moments of caprice he would replace it by swad-
dling his short neck in a black cravat of many
folds, the knot of which invariably slipped around
and under his ear, giving him a lose and dissi-
pated air.
His benevolent disposition had made him
popular with the people of Belton, and many a
poor body had reason to thank the good physician
not only for gratuitous attendance, but for the

MAR~K GILDEu SLEEVE

53

wherewithal to' buy indispensable remedies and
comforts. We say had reason to thank him, for
they seldom ventured to do so, certainly not a
second time, for the doctor was exceedingly im--
patient of any manifestations of gratitude, and
generally received them with a cynical or tart
comment.
One weakness the doctor had in common with
many of his countrymen.-devotion to the social
glass and flowing bowl, and when he had in.
dulged over freely he was a changed man. Then
his ordinary blandness forsook him, and he be-
came pompous and choleric. He buttoned his
coat tightly over his chest, carried his cane under
his arm, and gave a defiant cock to his hat. Be-
ware then how you contradicted him; beware how
you defended that absurd heresy, homeopathy;
and above all, beware how you disparaged, even
in the remotest degree, her Majesty of England,
God bless her! as he would add, reverently lift
ing his hat. His loyalty and pomposity increased
in proportion to the depths of his potations, but,
whether in rigid obedience to a self-imposed law,
or owing to the resistant power of his brain, he
never appeared to exceed a certain well-defined


MARK GILERsLEE VE-          55

limit; and no one had ever seen the doctor over-
come, or known him to be in a worse state than
that peculiar one indicated by a highly bur-
nished nose, tetchy dignity, and exaggerated self-
importance. The doctor was generally in this
condition three evenings in the week, beginning at
about four o'clock post-meridian, and so far from
its being considered prejudicial to the exercise of
his professional duties by his patients, many of
them religiously believed that his sagacity was
keener and skill greater at those times than at
others.
The doctor was an enigma to the Belton folk.
While they all respected him for his good quali-
ties, many were offended at his sarcasm, puzzled
by his paradoxes, or displeased at his oracular
utterances. A few even pronounced him an "in-
fidel" and an "atheist." Opinionated George
Gildersleeve objected to the doctor's opinionat-
iveness, and rated him a "pig-headed John Bull."
As to the charge of atheism, who could have be-
lieved it that had ever seen the doctor at service,
as he stood reverentially burying his red face in
his stiff hat on Sundays in the fifth pew from the
chancel, in the middle aisle of St. Jude's ?

" A theist, bosh!" said the doctor; ."the old
Latin proverb, Ubi trees medici duo at/ei, is sim-
ply nonsensical. Who comes so closely in con-
tact with the mysterious ways of God, and realizes
so thoroughly his own ignorance and impotence,
as the physician? No-no, a corner of the veil
has been uplifted to us, and we stand appalled
and humble."
Mark Gildersleeve was almost an. adopted son
of the old physician, who had taken the youth in
affection and proved an invaluable friend to him,
chiefly by directing a course of reading and study.
A priceless benefit this to Mark, whose advanta-
ges for instruction had been slight, for he had lost
his parents at an early age, and been left to the
care of his half-brother George, or rather to his
half-brother's wife. It would have been difficult
to find more dissimilar beings than these two
brothers. George was the true son of Eben Gil-
dersleeve, the tough old smith who could forge
the best horse-shoe' in the county; while Mark
inherited the character and tastes of his mother,
Eben Gildersleeve's second wife, a woman of
beauty and delicacy, a rustic Venus mated to a
village Vulcan. George was boisterous, given to

54         MARK GILDE ILSLEEVE.


MARK GILDERSLEEVE.

MARK GILDERSLEEvE.

bully and boast, and hid his purse-pride in an af-
fected contempt for the world's opinion. Mark,
on the contrary, was reserved, and rendered mor-
bidly sensitive by a slight lameness resulting from
an injury received in childhood-a mere blemish,
though, in an otherwise well-knit and graceful
form. For all his reserve the lad had a resolute
and ambitious spirit. Gifted with quick percep-
tion, and a natural aptitude for mathematics, he
had become, although almost self-taught, profi-
cient as a mechanical engineer. After a common-
school education, his brother, in accordance with
the theory that the only road to success was
through a diligent use of the flexors and exten-
sors, set him to work in the shops, but it was not
long before he was found to be more useful in
the draughting room. Young as he was, Mark
had introduced some valuable improvements in
his brother's works, although that independent
fellow was not over-ready to acknowledge it. On
the contrary, he rather berated the young man
behind his back, for a fop who cared for nothing
but dress, or a fool who was occupied with dreams
- and poetry instead of devoting himself to his busi-
ness. Mark, it must be admitted, sinned a little

in that way, although not to an extent to justify
his brother's railings. Full of enthusiasm and
high aspirations,.he scorned mere money-making,
and as he earned enough to satisfy his wants he
bestowed no further thought in that direction.
This was a source of displeasure to George.
" Confound the fellow," he would exclaim in the
barber-shop, perhaps, or at Bird's livery stable,
"Confound the fellow! he's .no slouch, but as
smart as they make 'em, and if he'd only stick to
his work he'd be a rich man in time. I never
had much of a head for figures, but it comes nat-
'ral to him. If he's a mind to, he can do more
work than any other two men you can scare up,
and if he aint a-mind, you can't coax or drive him.
He'll go off and jingle away by the hour on a
piano, like a girl, or play chess or read novels
half the night. Why, he's even got a banjo up in
his room that he strums away on like a nigger
minstrel" (alluding to a Spanish guitar that
Mark had bought, probably.with the romantic in-
tention of practising seguidillas). "Look at me,"
George would add as a clincher; "the only music
ever I made was with a riveting hammer on a,
boiler,-/or a sledge on an anvil, and am I any the
3*

1

56

57

;.,
'y},
' I:


MARK GILDE SLEEVE.         59

58          MARK GILDERSLEEVE.

worse for it ? Not much, I think, and here I am,
as independent as a hog on ice ! Don't owe a
man a dollar in the world, and though I don't
roost in as big a house as Rufe Heath or Pop
Mumbie up on the hill yonder, they'll take my
note at the bank as quick as either of theirs if I
should ask it, which I don't, as I pays as I goes;,
and what's more, I can dust any of 'em on the
plank-road any day of the week, with as pretty a
pair o' flyers as there is in the State, and if you
don't believe it here's the soap to back it for
any amount from fifty to five thousand! "
And he would conclude customarily by draw-
ing out a well-stuffed wallet, and slapping it ener-
getically, with a defiant look at the by-standers.
That wallet was George's ultimo ratio, and when
pushed in an argument, or at loss for a reply, he
would flourish it at his opponent, with an offer
to wager any sum on the moot-point; a rebutter
which, if it did not carry conviction, enabled
George to close the issue in a triumphant manner.
There was a story current to the effect that he
had once startled a tableful of Methodist clergy-
men, assembled to take tea at Mrs. Gildersleeve's
during a conference, by proffering to the decorous

men a bet on the correct interpretation of a dis-
puted passage in St. John; but this lacked con-
firmation, for George, if he had but little respect
for any one else, had a great deal for his wife, and
as such an act would have shocked her exceed-
ingly, it is not at all likely that it took place.
The sagacious reader has doubtless come to the
conclusion that the Gildersleeve family was com-
posed of rather incongruous members, aid yet, for
one comprising such opposite characters, its harmo-
ny was remarkable. They occupied a small two-
story dwelling with a flower-garden attached, in
a side street, not far from the Archimedes Works.
A large, bright brass door-plate bore in very loud
letters the name: GILDERSLEEVE-as if there
were none other of that name in the universe, or as
if this was the Gildersleeve par excellence of all
who were fortunate enough to bear that honest
patronymic. Aside from this, the residence pre-
sented a very quiet and modest appearance. The
interior was plainly furnished, but neat as wax.
In the little parlor were old-fashioned mahogany
chairs and sofas dark with age, but polished, and
protected with snowy tidies. In one corner was
Mark's piano, and on either side of the chimney-


MARK GILDERSLEEVE.        61

breast hung portraits in oil of Mr. and Mrs.
Gildersleeve, taken when they were first married,
and looking wooden in port and flat as to per-
spective, faced on the opposite side by photo-
graphic likenesses of the same at a mature age.
Then between the windows was a colored photo-
graph of Mr. Gildersleeve in his costume of
foreman of a fire company, with red shirt, leathern
cap, and trumpet; and still another representing
him in his regalia as a Sir Knight of the Sancho
Panza Commandery of the Knights of the Golden
Fleece. George had a passion for counterfeit
presentments of himself, and in the album on the
centre-table might have been found a number of
others, taken in various attitudes and in various
expressions of obstinacy, by that distinguished
artist, Alonzo Snopple, Esq., who kept' duplicates
in his "studio" and never failed to call visitors'
attention to them as remarkable pictures of a
remarkable self-made man. "Fine head," he
would say, "very fine head-rare combination of
intellect and force--especially force. Strongly
marked lineaments, well adapted for Rembrandt
effects. Observe the lights and shadows, that
well-defined nose, etc.;" and George seemingly

was not indisposed to allow the public every
opportunity to familiarize itself with the repre-
sentation of such a masterpiece of nature in the
way of a head. Besides his love of portraiture,
he was given to keeping fast trotters and game-
cocks, and in the stables at the Works were stalls
devoted to a span of the speediest Morgans for
the owner's private use, and in the stable yard
strutted a certain breed of "orange-piles," whose
pugnacious qualities were almost as well known
as those of the celebrated fowls of the Derby
walk; the dauntless game-cocks, that:
" symbolize their lord."
These animals enabled George to indulge occa-
sionally in a little sportsmanlike relaxation, and
spice his toil-earned wealth by a few chance dol-
lars won from fickle fortune.
Mrs. Gildersleeve was an industrious little
housekeeper with an equable temper, and an
unbounded and unquestioning faith in her hus-
band ; scarcely less so, too, in her brother-in-law
Mark, whom she had brought up from childhood
and looked upon as a son-an affection recipro-
cated by the young man, who loved her as if she

60                  I  GILDEESLEE   II


6 2        MARK GILDERSLEEVE.

MARK GILDERsLEEvE.        63

were his mother, and with reason, for she could
not have been more devoted had she really stood
in that relation to him. The only thing that ever
cast a shadow on her uniform serenity and cheer-
fulness, was the remissness in their religious
duties of the two beings the nearest and dearest
to her. She had more than once mentioned this
subject to the Rev. Samuel Sniffen, and this
good man had striven zealously to bring these
wayward sheep into the fold, but with small
effect; for George Gildersleeve seemed flint, and
his brother quicksilver. Nevertheless, Mrs. Gil-
dersleeve had gained ground and progressed so
far in her endeavors at reclamation, that her hus-
band invariably accompanied her to meeting
every Sabbath morning and afternoon, while
Mark escorted her to the evening service, the
mornings and afternoons of that sacred day being
devoted by the erratic youth to St. Jude's. It
was an edifying sight to behold George at meet-
ing. The stolidity with which he received the
earnest and vivifying sermons of the Rev. Samuel
Sniffen-as if they imparted teachings which the
rest of the congregation would do well to heed,
but which did not concern him in the least.--was

the despair of the excellent minister. The
hardened sinner had even shown, on frequent
occasions, a tendency to nap through exhortations
of the most vehement and fervid character.
What was to be done with such a soul? The
only answer he would vouchsafe to the friendliest
and most persuasive counsel was, that his wife
was good enough for both of them, and he felt
insured as to the future, as she pio doubt would
have influence enough to "pull him through" in
any event. "She'll take care of me, you bet,"
he would add; "she's good enough to save a half
a dozen;" and in this conviction of security noth-
ing could shake . him.  Brother Sniffen then
wisely concluded that as it seemed a hopeless task
for the patient to obtain sanctification through
faith, he would induce him to try the efficacy of
good works, and in this laudable endeavor called
upon him constantly for contributions to the sup-
port and propagation of the Methodist Episcopal
persuasion, and as George always responded
liberally to all such requests, he stood well with
the good people of that sect, in spite of his stiff-
neckedness,
Mark was more tractable. He was willing to


AR  GILDE3ERLEE vE,

64         .MARK GILDERSLEEVE.

do almost anything to please his sister-in-law ex-
cept, perhaps, giving up his attendance at St.
Jude's. And, whence, it may be asked, arose this
preference. in the young man for that particular
temple of worship? Did he hunger after the
spiritual truth as dispensed by the rector, the
Rev. Spencer Abbott? 'Alas! we fear not. Did
he deem his tenor voice an indispensable ad-
junct to the church choir?  Strict truth compels
us to say nay. Mrs. Gildersleeve, for her part,
attributed his partiality for the Episcopal service
to Dr. Wattletop's influence; but the worthy
lady's perspicuity was entirely at fault, and the
motive that impelled her brother-in-law to such
an assiduous attendance at St. Jude's was not
any preference for a liturgy, or leaning for the
tenets of that church; in fact, we regret to say,
it was not any religious conviction whatever, but
simply and solely-love ! Love for the sweetest
profile ever imagined; the profile that he was con-
tinually sketching on the draughting sheets or
tracing-paper; that distracted him while at work;
that drew him to St. Jude's, but drew his attention
away from the excellent sermons of the young
and worthy rector. And the possessor of that

profile was-Edna Heath. She, of course, was
attentive to the sermon as good girls always are,
and utterly unconscious of the glances directed at
her from the organ-loft, where Mark poured
forth the pantings of his sighing soul in song.
Utterly unconscious, too, of the influence she ex-
erted over that youth's ideas and aspirations; how
she had inspired him with vaulting ambition, and
given him a corresponding distaste for his calling;
how, for her sake, he desired to become famous,
and, of all things, to be a poet! In this frame
of mind; this fervent exaltation, the church
seemed a haven of bliss to him, and his worship-
ping, we grieve to say, was directed chiefly to the
idol who sat in the double pew in the transept
nearest to the chancel. All his longing for fame
was solely to lay it at her feet, and win not only
her favor, but her admiration. He scarcely de-
sired the one without the other; for once she had
pitied him, and that pity had left a sting which
could only be healed by the salve of admiration.
How and when this uneffaced wound was re-
ceived, we shall divulge in the succeeding chap-
ter.

11


66

M. K GILDS SLEEVE3.

Iv.

YEARs before, when our young people were
children, a juvenile party was given one evening
at Mr. Heath's, in honor of his son's birthday.
The children's schoolmates were invited, and
Mark Gildersleeve among the number. Miss
Edna, in white with a big blue sash, was naturally
enough an object of much devotion to the young
gallants in roundabouts and pumps, who certainly
evinced good taste, as the little belle was lovely
as delicate bloom, bright eyes, and rich curls
could make her. Poor Mark was dismal enough
while the dancing was in progress, as his sensi-
tiveness in regard to his lameness, and his Meth-
odist relative's scruples had prevented him from
learning that accomplishment; hence, he would
have passed but a dull evening, had it not been
for Edna, whose kind little heart prompted her
to select him as her partner in "Come, Philan-
ders," "fOats, peas, beans, and barley," etc., when
those games came on the carpet. This partiality

!' -   ,
#' _ ._
4
-
F

MARK GILDERsLEEVE.a

67

on the part of Miss Edna naturally engendered
much jealousy in the breasts-of her numerous ad-
mirers; and one, a malicious urchin, with the in-
stincts of an lago, plotted to make Jack Heath
his avenger. Jack, an overgrown, lubberly boy,
swelling with the importance of his position, and
the possession of a gold watch and tail-coat, was
diverting himself by teasing the girls and play-
ing tricks on the younger lads. Young Iago
suggested ,having some fun with Mark. Said
he, "I will go and get Willie Hull and Mortimer,
and we'll all hustle him, eh, Jack?"
"All right," said Jack; "he's a mean sneak,
anyway. He thinks himself so smart. He's no
business here. Edna sent him an invitation; I
wouldn't."
The boys surrounded Mark and jeered him.
" Where are your gloves ? " inquired lago, Junior,
pointing to Mark's bare hands. The poor boy
colored, for the other lads wore white kids, while
he had none-an omission due, most likely, to his
sister's ignorance of the requirements of fashion-
able society.
" Oh, what a pooty cravat! Look here, ain't
that a pooty one? Don't you wish you had one

SN


68         ML4IiK GILDER5LEEVPE.                                     AI    1DII5Ee

like it? What lots of money it must have cost,
eh ? " cried Jack, in affected -admiration, as he
pulled the boy's rather gaudy necktie.
"Let me alone," said Mark, indignantly.
"Suppose I won't," continued Jack, "what are,
you going to do about it, limpey?"
Stung by this cruel taunt, Mark's eyes flashed,
and on the instant he struck his insulter full in
the face. Jack, for the moment, was bewildered
by this sudden and unexpected attack, but soon
recovering himself, rushed at Mark, threw him
down, and fell on him. Over they rolled in their
struggles, but Jack, being older and heavier,
soon had the best of it, and kept the other under.
The girls screamed, and Professor Banghoffen
sprang from the grand piano to separate the
combatants. This was no easy matter for a
pursy man, and a kick in the stomach from the
writhing legs caused him to recoil, pant, and
consider. The colored domestic, however, soon
came to his assistance, and between them they
succeeded, after much puffing on the part of the
professor and the fracture of his spectacles, in
stopping the fight. The contestants were not
much hurt, but stood glaring at each other with

{
,
' ;

A&amp;

MARK GILDERSLEEVE,

rumpled hair and flushed countenances. The
children nearly all blamed Mark, but Edna,
greatly to his surprise, took his part with much
warmth. She had overheard the provocation,
and now stood by him with a very indignant and
determined air.
"I've a good mind to tell father, Jack, how
you have behaved; I think it is real shameful.
Mark is your guest, and it is very-very mean
indeed, and real wicked to tease him as you did;
and you ought to be thankful .in your prayers
that you are not lame as he is, and ought to pity
him, and be kind to him, instead of teasing him
so unkindly."
" You seem very fond of him all of a sudden,"
sneered Jack; "Guess he must be your beau.
Better kiss him, hadn't you?"
At this sally the boys laughed, and Edna, cov-
ering her blushing face with her hands, burst
into tears and went away sobbing. "You ought
(sob) you ought (sob) ought to be ashamed. I'll
(sob) I'll go (sob--sob--sob) and tell father
(sob, etc.)."
Mark felt as if he could have pitched into Jack
with increased vigor; but he refrained from any

_
;.
{.
f   ''
_,
r
,
t


demonstration, and as this last incident broke up
the party, went home with a spark in his bosom
that was destined to kindle into a flame.
Mark arose early the next morning, and before
going to school stopped to see Dr. Wattletop.
The doctor was still abed, for he had been up
nearly all the previous night ; nevertheless, he
rose cheerfully at the call, broken rest having
become a second nature to him, drew on a dress-
ing-gown, and went into his consulting-room,
where he found Mark waiting.
"Well, my lad, what is it?" inquired the doc-
tor, who was unacquainted with his visitor.
"Doctor, I am lame, and I want you to cure
me," said Mark.
" Lame, eh? fHow long have you been so, and
what caused it?"
"Ever since I was a child. I was knocked
down by a runaway horse and run over by a
wagon. My ankle was broken, I believe."
"lHum-um. Take off your shoe and stocking.
Lie down on that sofa, and let me look at your
ankle."
Mark did as he was bid, and the doctor drew
up a chair and sat down by him to examine the

MARK GILDERSLEEVE.

71

defective joint. The boy's black eyes were fixed
with a searching gaze on the doctor's face, as if
to read his thoughts, but there was nothing to be
derived from the grave, sphinx-like countenance.
The eager, inquisitive look of the lad, however,
did not escape the physician's notice.
"What is your name, my boy?" inquired the
doctor.
"Mark Gildersleeve, sir."
"Ah, you're Mr. Gildersleeve the iron-master's
son, are you?"
"No, sir, his brother."
"His brother, eh! Who attended you when
you received the injury?"
"Dr. Pokemore, sir."
"Dr. Pokemore, eh! He is your brother's
family physician, is he not?"
"  Yes, sir."
"Who sent you to me?"
"No one, sir. I came myself."
"Why did you not go to Dr. Pokemore ?"
"Because he said I could not be cured."
The doctor after some reflection gave a doubt-
ful nod, and said, "If anything can be done it
will only be after a painful operation.''

*1'

70          MARK GILDERSLEEVE.


72L  r GILDLOOLIn E .                  ARGiLt,

73

"I'll stand anything, doctor, if you will only
cure me. You may cut me, or do anything you,
like, only make me walk like other boys."
The doctor took from a case of surgical instru-
ments a bright bistoury, which he caused to glitter
before the boy's eyes, as he felt its edge.
A plucky little fellow, thought the doctor,
(struck by the unflinching look of determination
in the boy's countenance,) and seems to be in ear-
nest. "You say that you have been this way from
infancy; why are you so anxious to be helped
now i"
4 Because-because-they worry me about it,"
replied Mark.
"Worry you-that's very unkind. Come, tell
me all about it. I suspect there's a little history
behind this, and you must make me your con-
fidant."
Led on by the doctor's kind way, Mark exposed
the wound his pride had received; related the
story of his fight with Jack Heath (omitting,
however, any mention of Edna's interference),
and again begged the doctor to remove the im-
pediment in his walk, asserting his willingness
to submit to any operation, however painful, that

might be deemed necessary to effect 'the object.
Pleased with the boy's frankness and resolution,
and desirous to help him, the doctor again ex-
amined the maimed ankle. . A slow, fixed purs-
ing of his lips expressed doubt, and the boy's
countenance fell. There was a glimpse of hope,
though, in the doctor's words, who told Mark
that although he could not say anything encourag-
.ing now, he would talk the matter over with his
(Mark's) brother, "And if he is willing, I will
take you to New York with me, where we can
consult the best skill, and if there be a probabil--
ity of helping you, it shall be done."
A fine head, thought the doctor, passing his
hand over Mark's broad forehead ; there should
be something there. "Stop a bit, Mark; what do
you intend to be when you grow up, my boy?"
" I don't know, sir."
"What would you like to be, then?"
"I'd like," replied Mark, after some hesitation,
"I think-I'd like to be-a hero."
" A hero, eh ! Come, that's modest and laud-
able. But what kind of a hero, pray?"
" Like-like Jack Sheppard."
"Jack Sheppard, umph ! Why so?" said the
4

.R GILDER SLEEVE,


M1K GILDEIRSL1E .

74        I.IA   '' ILD ER5L1EVL.

doctor, rather surprised at this example and
selection.
" Oh he was such a smart, brave fellow ! They
couldn't keep him in prison," replied Mark, wag-
ging his head in admiration.
"But didn't he drive his poor mother crazy by
his conduct, or something of that sort?" inquired
the doctor. "That wasn't brave or smart, I take
it, but rather mean and contemptible for a hero,
wasn't it?"
"Yes, that was mean and bad," echoed Mark,
reflectively; " I think I'd rather be a Crusader."
" Better, much better. But where did you
hear of Jack Sheppard ?".
"Jerry Cook lent me the book, and I am read-
ing it."
"Fond of reading, Mark?"
"Yes, sir."
"Well, tell me what you have read."
"I've read 'The Three Spaniards,' and
'Rinaldo Rinaldini,' 'Illustrious Highwaymen,'
'Three-fingered Jack,' and-"
"I see-I see. Now, my boy, as you are fond
of reading, Il lend you a book to read that's
worth all the books that were ever written, ex-

cept, perhaps, the plays of Shakeseare. It is
called 'The Adventures of the Ingenious Knight,
Don Quixote of La IMancha.' Now, after you
have read it, I'll lend you the plays of Williani
Shakespeare, and after you have read those, you
will have read the very best product of human
intellect in the way of fiction. I do not expect
that you will understand those books fully; it
may take you all your life to do that, but if you
can get but an idea of their contents, or rather,
acquire but a taste for them, it will be sufficient
for the present,"
Mark thanked the doctor, and trudged away,
delighted, with the Don Quixote under his arm.
This was the beginning of an intimacy, and close
friendship between the two. As he had promised,
Dr. Wattletop took the boy, with his brother's
consent, to New York, and consulted the best
chirurgical authority on. his case ; but, as the
doctor bad feared, without being able to obtain
any encouragement as to the possibility of re-
lieving him from the imperfection in his gait.
Mark, for a time, was greatly disappointed at
this result; but finally this feeling wore away, and
grateful for all the kindness shown to him by the

75

74


MARK GILDERsLE+ EVE.     77

MARK GILDERSLEEVE.
doctor, became attached to him, and was never
more happy than when able to reciprocate with
some slight service. The doctor's slender stock
of literature was soon devoured by the boy, but
as the books were choice, they bore re-reading and
study. They consisted chiefly of poetry and a
few standard novels. Histories there were none,
the doctor in regard. to these being of Walpole's
opinion, "Lies, my boy, lies, mere records of
men's prejudices and self-glorification. Sound,
wholesome truth is found in a good poem or
noble novel."
Thus did Mark imbibe his taste for the ideal,
and thus was his mental growth fashioned by the
eccentric physician. His moral training, too,
was not overlooked by this teacher, but the code
inculcated was a simple one, and merely this:
"Be just. There is but one virtue-justice," as-
serted Dr. Wattletop ; "men resort to makeshifts,
such as generosity, or charity, but they are but
confessions of their shortcomings in respect to
justice. If men were not unjust, there would be
no need of generosity, or charity, and forgiveness
would be either uncalled for, or a crime."
There was doubtless a deal of the stoic in these

teachings, but it was on such philosophy that
Mark was nourished.
As for his boyish passion for Edna Heath, that
grew apace, but accompanied with the bitter re-
membrance that the sympathy she had shown
him was prompted simply by commiseration. He
was made none the less unhappy also, by noticing
that since the eventful party Edna was not as
cordial as formerly, but inclined to be distant; for
the little beauty thought, perhaps, that she had
been too pointed in her sympathy and desired,
like older maidens, to set matters aright by an
excess of reserve in the future. Very soon after
this, however, she was sent to a seminary at Bur-
lington, and during an interval of several years
made but short and infrequent visits home. In
this way the intercourse between the two gradu-
ally became less familiar, until now, Edna having
attained young lady-hood, it was formal, and re-
stricted to what is called a bowing acquaintance.
Mark finally imagined he detected an intention
on her part to repel him, and met it by assuming
an attitude of corresponding hauteur. Still, the
secret passion burned within his breast with


MARK GILDEisLEEVE,         79

18          MARK GILDERsLEEVE.

steady fervor. It was his greatest joy to see her,
although he never did so without those bitter
words recurring to him: You ought to be thank-
ful you are not lame as he is, and ought to pity
him. Each word a thorn pressed to the quick!
Meaning to be kind, how cruel she had been!
How much sharper those words had stung than
the mean taunt of her brother ! that he could for-
give and forget, for it came from one he de-
spised, but could he ever forgive or forget the
wound inflicted by her expressions of pity ?
Nothing but a complete and voluntary retraction
on her part could compensate for that, and he
resolved to toil with energy, and patience-to
strain nerve and brain-to undergo, and brave
everything until he had achieved distinction
enough to excite her admiration, and wonder
that she could ever have deemed him an object
of compassion. Ridiculous, self-tormenting res-
olutions these will appear to common sense ; yet
were they but the natural impulses of a proud,
sensitive, and we may add rather conceited youth,
full of the illusions of life, and pushing every
sentiment to extremes.

Now that the intelligent reader is better ac-
quainted with our hero's history and aspirations,
he will at once conceive that Mark was rather
alarmedfor more reasons than one at the possible
consequences of his second altercation with John
Peter Heath, as related in a previous chapter.
Dr. Wattletop had relieved his fears in relation
to any serious injury's resulting to the brother;
but, reflected Mark, what will the sister think of
it, and how has the affair been represented to
her? Most likely, I am held up as a ruflian, who
brutally and causelessly assailed her brother.
Shall I submit, and let the future explain, or had
I better seek an interview, and set myself right?
I must do it, and I'll do it at once, was his de-
cision--a decision he arrived at the more readily,
as it afforded him an excellent pretext to see.and
converse with 'the object of his secret and con-
stant adoration. But, on consideration, fearing
that such astep might be misinterpreted, he

OvIr
,at
ve

r'

.1


MARK GILDERSLEEVE.         81

80           .A1K GILDE RSIEEYE

" concluded reluctantly to address himself to her
father, and offer a frank explanation of the oc-
currence. It required an effort to come to this
decision, for Mark dreaded Mr. Heath's patroniz-
ing politeness, and invariably avoided meeting
him. But he conquered his repugnance on re-
flecting that that gentleman was fortunate enough
to be Edna's father, and, moreover, that there
was a likelihood of meeting and conversing with
that young lady in compensation. In view of the
latter probability, he prepared himself by making
a more than usual neat and careful toilet, and by
the time he was ready to start, his thoughts were
far more occupied with Miss Edna's eyes, than
with her brother's broken head. Qff he started
for the "Cliff," but soon his courage failed him,
as he imagined the reception he was likely to
meet with. Twice or thrice he stopped, hesi-
tated, and only continued after much cogitation.
Resolutely he walked past the gate-lodge,.and up
the avenue that led to the house. He rang the
bell with a thumping heart. It was the first time
he had crossed that thrashol&amp; since he had been
to Jack Heath's birthday party, and he remem-
bered the coloi6d servant who now -ushered him

into a reception room, as the same one-with a
gray poll now, however-who had assisted the
pianist in stopping the fight on that memorable
occasion. Mark sent his name up to Mr. Heath,
with the wish to be allowed a few moments' con-
versation with him. That gentleman, evidently,
was in no haste to see his visitor, for he kept him
waiting a long time. Meanwhile, Mark amused
himself by staring at the pictures on the wall, and
looking over some books that lay on the pier-
table, when he heard light tripping footsteps
coming towards him, and,' turning suddenly,
beheld Edna standing in the doorway in a startled
attitude-a charming picture of a surprised
maiden, lithe figure poised forward, with slightly
parted lips, and fine, large eyes opened iii full
wonder. "Oh, I beg pardon-excuse me, I
thought it was father " and advancing, she added
in a frank, pleasant way, "Why, this is Mark
Gildersleeve."
All the blood in Mark's body rushed to his
face as he bowed and explained, rather awk-
wardly, that he had called to see her father.
"I'll go and call him," said Edna; but as she
was about leaving the room, Mark arrested her
4*


MARK GILDERSLEEVE.         83

82         MARK GILDERsLEEVE.

with an eager exclamation, "Stay, Miss heath;
do not leave yet, I beseech you. One moment-
I beg of you-Pray tell me, is your brother
severely hurt?"
"Not seriously so. He slept quite soundly
last night. He very fortunately escaped any
great harm. His horse ran away with him-.
upset the wagon he was riding in, and he fell--"
"I know it all, Miss Heath. It was my fault."
"Your fault," repeated Edna with surprise.
"My fault, I regret to say. But please forgive
me. I came to explain and apologize. Your
brother provoked me, and-I was carried away by
anger. Had the consequences been serious, I
should never have forgiven myself. I am sorry
-very sorry, Miss Heath. You were so kind as
to take my part on a former occasion, when we
were children. I have never forgotten it. (Edna
colored at the reminder.) Please do so again. I
know you are too just and too kind to blame me,
if you knew all the circumstances."
Edna, who knew nothing of Mark's share in.
the misadventure, was much mystified by his ap-
peal, and rather confused by his demeanor; for
emboldened by the opportunity, the young man

had advanced towards her in a supplicatory atti-
tude, while his gaze expressed far more of admi-
ration than contrition. She stood with a light
blush tinting her features, not knowing how to
receive so demonstrative an address, when, fortu-
nately, the appearance of her father permitted
her to withdraw, and caused her admirer suddenly
to subdue his rather dramatic manner.
" This is-Mr. George Gildersleeve's brother,
if I am not mistaken," quoth Mr. Heath with
easy condescension, and extending a finger to
Mark.
"Yes, sir," replied the young man. "I came
to inquire about your son, feeling it my duty to
do so."
"Better this morning-much better, in fact."
" So I was glad to learn from Miss Heath. It
is but proper that I should tell you, sir, that I was
unfortunately the cause of the- accident," said
Mark.
"Indeed-indeed," said Mr. Heath loftily, "I
wasn't aware."
This was a fib, for he knew all about the affair,
and that his son had been the aggressor.
"I came," continued Mark, " to offer any ex-


1                                                                                   -i  C

84

MARK GILDERSLEEVE.

planation that might be required, or to do any-
thing in my power to-"
"None is needed, sir; none is needed. The
matter is fortunately'of no consequence," inter-
rupted Mr. Heath, who was not desirous of discuss-
ing the unpleasant event, for he was vexed and
somewhat ashamed at this fresh exhibition of his
son's misconduct. "I am obliged to you for call-
ing, and can safely say, that my son has no grave
injury whatever-none whatever."
Mr. Heath had not asked his. visitor to be.
seated, and as he paused in a significant way after
every sentence he uttered, Mark took the hint and
his departure.
Seldom had Mark been s6 happy as after this
visit. The effect of the frigid, almost discourte-
ous reception given him by the father, was com-
pletely effaced by his short but delightful inter-
view with the daughter. To be near her, and to
converse with her, was compensation enough for
any annoyance. IVioreover, he had discovered to
his joy, that while he had fancied himself almost
forgotten and unthought of, she had on the con-
trary recognized him as an old friend, and even
remembered the occasion, long since passed, when

MARK GILD E RSL iE+VE.

8w

she had assumed with childish frankness the part
of his ally and defender, The bitter side of that
incident faded away for the moment, and his
happiness was unalloyed. He cared little for the
opinion of father or brother. Marriage with
Miss Heath had not yet entered the scope of his
aspirations. His aim was to acquire her close
friendship, and above all her esteem and admira-
tion. For this he resolved to live and strive. A
modest ambition truly, but might not friendship,
esteem, and admiration blossom into love?. And
to that complexion also, were not Edna's feelings,
insensibly perhaps, tending ? For it was not from
any sense of displeasure that she withdrew so
summarily from Mark's presence; on the con-
trary, she carried away a very agreeable impres-
sion of him; so much so, that his pleading face in-
voluntarily presented itself to her repeatedly dur-
ing the day. " I never before noticed," thought
she, "how much better looking Mark Gildersleeve
has grown to be. He certainly has beautiful eyes
--so very expressive, and such pleasing manners,
and there is something so gentlemanly and refined
about him too." Evidently, the hoodwinked ar-
cher-boy had sped a shaft in her direction.

kris
tc3~b ?
i y  J7N
k -_gi
ff    ;s
W  = . ...


MARK GILDERSLEEVE.

Mark, certainly, had made the most of his op-
portunity. Casting aside all his usual reserve,
he had thrown as much eloquence and magnetism
as he could, in a pair of black eyes that proved
to be not ineffective. At least the ice was broken.
But after the first moment of elation had passed,
came the disturbing idea of the obstacles he
might have to-encounter in the way of future suc-
cess. As has been mentioned, he only desired
such as he might win through personal distinction.
Doubtless there was a large share of vanity in
this determination; but vanity was the weak side
of the Gildersleeves, half-redeemed, though, in
Mark, as it never manifested itself in any offen-
sive way.. In social standing, he was not consid-
ered the equar of Miss Heath; for in our, republic,
gradations in society are as sharply defined as
elsewhere, with the difference that with us wealth
more frequently draws the line. Mark ignder-
stood this, but such was his contempt for mere
money-getting, that the enthusiastic youth would
even have preferred to resigrn any attempt to gain
Miss Heath's favor, if to accomplish it the acqui-
sition of wealth were necessary. His estimate of
the young lady's character, however, was too high

to admit for a moment of the supposition that she
could in any way be influenced by mercenary
motives. No money could buy what he aspired to
possess-to wit, her admiration. Fame alone
could win that; and were this the age of chivalry,
how eagerly would he don casque, mount the
barbed steed, and tilt his way to death or distinc-
tion! But in this prosaic age few paths are open
to ambitious youth. He was a draughtsman--
an engineer. Howsoever eminent one might be-
come in that profession, it still remained a com-
monplace one. He did not think Edna had any
especial admiration for Brunel, or Stephenson, or
even Watt. In his calling genius itself could
hardly efface the stains of labor, and obtain the
consideration accorded to mediocrity in the gen-
teel professions. In medicine, or law, one might
with far more facility attain celebrity ; but he had
no taste for those vocations. He had dabbled
with paint, and executed some very indifferent
daubs, until in disgust he had thrown away the
palette and brush. Then the versatile youth had
coquetted with Euterpe, and practised on every
instrument, from the harmonica to. the organ. In
vocal music he was more successful; but poesy,

VK

Fy 3",.
04

MASK GILDS SLEEVE.

87

86


MARK GILDERSLEEVE.         89

the art of all arts, was the one he longed to cul-
tivate and excel in. He loved the poets, and
believed himself animated with a spark of their
celestial fire. If genius were patience, why
might one not become by constant effort, if not
a Shakespeare, say a Keats, or a Tennyson?
Phrenologists taught that every faculty could
be modified,' and its power increased by exercise.
Knatchbull, a foreman in the Works, who had
been a Chartist in his own country, and pos-
sessed a remarkable head, told him that he
had succeeded, under the advice of a phrenol-
ogist, in so changing his character that plaster
casts of his cranium taken at different periods
showed corresponding modifications in the prom-
inences. This practical example of what per-
sistence might do was encouraging; and so Mark,
stung by some stray bee from Mount ilymettus,
wrote quires of plain verses, which he thought
very fine and destined to stir the world of letters,
but which were simply transpositions of ideas and
similes of the master poets with which his mind
was saturated.
Could poets have been made other than by the
hand of Nature, Mark would certainly have be-

K

J ' ^;
s    _  ;,s
--a ; ,

88            11fMA11t UILD + RSLEEVE

come one, for he strove with an indefatigable
ardor that nothing could dampen to succeed; but
the divine afilatus so charily bestowed was lack-
ing, and he thrummed the lyre without evoking'
strains immortal, What phrenzy and foolscap
were wasted-what moonlight walks indulged
in, and sylvan groves haunted, to meditate and
seek inspiration !  How  often he sauntered
around the margin of the Passaic, watching the
leap of the cataract and rise of its snowy mist,
as its low thunder lulled him into delicious day
dreams. Far into the night would he linger re-
clining against the bole of some tree, gazing with
straining eyes towards Mr. Heath's villa, whose'
gray walls loomed in the moonlight like a feudal
castle, to catch, perhaps, a glimpse of a shadow
that might appear occasionally behind the cur-
tains of a lighted room that he knew to be
Edna's. Often had the faint sound of music or
mirth, that reached him from the open drawing-
room windows, filled himwith envy and jealousy,
as he thought of the Rev. Spencer Abbott and
young Mumbie, who were constant visitors- at the
villa. Then, dismally homeward would he wend
his way, go to his' room, and spend the silent


MVARK GILDEnSLEEVE.91

watches of the night racking his brains to com'
mit his thoughts to paper. Quires, nay reams,
were covered with superfine tropes and meta-
phors, as he strove to coin words that the world
would not willingly let die. He ventured to
show his lucubrations to Dr. Wattletop, but the
reception they met with was neither flattering nor
even encouraging. "My dear boy, drop all this,"
was the advice given. "Not only are you wasting
precious time, but your taste and mind are be-
coming vitiated by the namby-pamby trash of
modern.rhymesters. If you must plagiarize, do
it from Pope, or Milton, or Gray. Study them,
or the master Shakespeare. Remember, as Cole-
ridge said, poetry must be either music or sense,
and I cannot say there is much of either in your
verses. Get at the kernel. But after all, the
study for a poetically inclined youth is medicine,
singular as that may seem to you. If the desire
be to awaken sublime ideas, investigate the ab-
struse problem of life. Follow the noblest call-
ing, the art of healing, and seek to penetrate the
arcana of Nature. I wish I could induce you to
become one of us. Our. profession greatly needs
ardent and intelligent recruits, else we shall be

overrun with quacks in every shape. Look at
the frightful progress of that modern humbug,
homoeopathy. There is no error, however absurd,
but will find supporters and disciples, and no
where can there be a nobler field for the exercise
of the highest talent than in combating and
routing those egregious and pernicious pre-
tenders to science, who, with the absurd brocard,
that 'like cures like,' impose on the simple and
gullible. Now I am anything but illiberal-if
anything, I err on the opposite side. Whatever
my convictions may be, I am willing to give a
patient hearing and investigation to any theory
or system bearing a show of probability, that is
advanced in a truthful, earnest, and humble
spirit. I do not forget that alchemy was the
mother of chemistry, and astrology of astronomy;
that Harvey met with bigoted opposition, and in
short that it becomes the seeker to be humble;
but when I see a fellow like this Keene here-
this hatchet-faced Yankee from Connecticut, who
probably a year ago was peddling wooden clocks,
going around Beiton with his ridiculous pellets,
and presuming to be a physician, I am provoked
beyond endurance, and feel sometimes as if I

MAI   GILDED' SLEEVE&amp;


92          MARK GILDERSLEEVE.

could give the fellow a horse-whipping. Well,
well, the fools are not all dead yet."
"II hope, doctor, you don't class me among
them," said crestfallen Mark, with a feeble
smile.
"No-no-my dear boy," replied the doctor,
patting his protegd affectionately on the shoulder.
"Not by any means. I was merely alluding to the
facility with which the generous public is gulled.
As for you, Mark, I think there is the stuff in
you for something, if not for a bard. I dislike
to see you chasing jack-o'-lanterns. Think of it;
there are but a certain quantity of poetic ideas,.
and they have all been thought out and put into
English words long ago. Fresh attempts result
only in tricking them out in fantastic dresses,
and with poor effect. Modern critics may sneer
at the old favorites, but what have your rhyme-
sters of to-day produced equal to the 'Universal
Prayer,' ' Gray's Elegy,' or 'The Deserted Vil--
lage'? No, no, lad; love the old poets, from
Homer down, but don't attempt to soar with
them to the empyrean. Stay with us on terra
firma; invent a new cut-off, or condenser, and
let anapest, dactyl, and trochee alone."

This advice was not relished by Mark, and
like most distasteful advice, was not followed;
if anything, it proved a spur to his literary exer-
tions.   Occasionally his    effusions found   their
way into print, and shone in the Literary column
of the Belton Sentinel, accompanied by a notice
from the editor, who alluded -to the talent of his
young fellow-townsman in terms of unmeasured
praise. Said that influential sheet on the appear-
ance of The Broken Alacus:
In spite of a press of matter, we determined to make
room, in our issue of to-day, for another poem from the pen
of our gifted young poet, Mark Gildersleeve, which will be
found on the third page. The favor with which the
'withered Chaplet' and 'The Spear of Ithuriel' were
received, encourage us to print the present verses. They
are hexameters, and remind us in their flowing rhythm of
the earlier efforts of Longfellow, while in gorgeousness of
imagery and luxuriance of diction, they equal some of the
finest passages in Keats. Altogether, we congratulate Mr.
Gildersleeve on this exquisite production, whose symmetry
and polished beauty can only be fitly compared to a capital
of Pentelican marble from the chisel of Phidias."
Dr. Wattletop, though, said "Bosh" to this,
when he read it, and it could not be denied
that he was a competent critic. Ile, also, had
trod. the primrose path of literature in leisure
moments, not as a poet, but as an occasional con-

MARK. GILDEESLEEV E


MARK GILDERsLEEVE.

tribtutor of essays to magazines and reviews.
There was a literary club in Belton, composed of
young men who loved to indulge in debates and
other intellectual gymnastics. Mark, as might be
supposed, was an active member, and, indeed, at
one time president of this association. Besides
deciding the momentous topics of "Whether
men of thought, or men of action, have done the
most for civilization," or "Whether the execu-
tion of Mary Queen of, Scots was justifiable or
not," and other questions of similar perplexity,
the society gave lectures, or rather lectures were
given, to quote the posters, under their auspices,
during the winter months. At their solicitation,
Dr. Wattletop was induced to prepare and -de-
liver a lecture on "Eccentricity," a theme which
he was well qualified, at least from experience,
to treat of. ile diversified it with many humor-
ous anecdotes of Porson and Abernethy, and it
met with much applause, and elicited very flat-
tering encomiums from the Belton Sentinel. So
successful, indeed, was it, that efforts were made
to have the doctor repeat it in neighboring
towns, but he excused himself on the plea of
want of time. Then proffers of money were

made to induce him to comply; this only served
to incense him, and an indignant refusal was the
result. He was inclined to blame Mark a little
in his, displeasure.
"Mark, you rascal, all this is your fault. I
never would have given that confounded lect-
ure but for you. It ill becomes a man of my
years and profession to waste the time he owes to
his patients, in relating stale jests to a grinning
audience. I don't know what I could have been
thipking of. In future, spin your nonsense as
much as you like, my boy, but don't ask me to
join you-at my age, too ! My remnant of life
is too short, and time has become too precious to
me, to be squandered in that way."
As well in that way, and better than in an-
other he was prone to; and 'unfortunately, he
was getting.rather too much on his hands, just
then, of the article he deemed so precious. For
Keene, the hatchet-faced honxopath, had relieved
the doctor of a vast deal of practice, and left him
with overmuch unemployed time on his hands.
Dr. Wattletop explained the increasing popular..
ity of the heterodox practitioner in this wise:
"The infernal quack seduces the children with

95

94

MARK ' GILDS S EVE


96           MARK GILDERSLEEVE.
his sugar-plums, and the mothers are silly enough
to yield to their preferences; once introduced ii
the family, of course it is pleasanter, if one needs
physic, to appease the conscience with a make~
believe medicine than to take a bitter though
wholesome remedy. How are you to meet this
folly and weakness ? Between these sugar-plums,
and water,drenching, and clairvoyant cures, the
profession, I say, is going to the devil-yes, sir,
going to the devil! Come, Dagon, let's be off, old
boy;" and with his dog jogging beside him he
would letake himself to a walk, which, after a cir-
cuit of a mile or so, invariably terminated not to the
infernal regions, as one would naturally infer, but
to what the Belton "Band of Hope" would have
designated as half way to it, viz.: "The Shades."
This was a little tavern at the far' end of the
town, kept by an Englishman, and frequented
solely by "old-country" people (of whom there
were many among the mill-hands), who resorted
thither to indulge in Welsh rarebits and old ale.
You ascended afew steps, pushed open a swing-
door, and found yourself facing a little bar
attached to a small quiet room with a sanded
floor. There were wire screens in the windows

MARK G hr)ERSLEy

97

on the street, and the walls were ornamented
with fine engravings of the All England Eleven
the Cambridgeshire Hunt, and portraits of Nel-
son, Wellington, and Queen Victoria. The host
was   6 " Brummagem" man, suspected, from his
blunted nose, of having been a pugilist, but as he
was a surly man of uncommunicative disposition,
the suspicion had never been verified. There were
a half-dozen tables in the room, and at a partic-
ular one in a corner Dr. Wattletop took his place,
and Dagon his (beneath the table), with undeviat
ing method, about three days in the week, unless
prevented by professional duties. Mutely, then,
the blunt-nosed man brought a beaker of gin and
sugar, and the Albion, or Illustrated London
Nws to the doctor, who in silence consumed the
gin and perused the paper, his interest in the lat-
ter centring in the "Gazette," whose announce-
ment that Major Pipeclay was promoted vice
Colonel Sabretasche retired, or that the .-th
Foot were ordered to Bermuda, or that some old
chum had gone to his long home, recalled recol-
lections of by-gone days, and furnished food for
reflection. After the third beaker he laid aside
the paper, and was now become intensely grave
5


MARK GILDERSLEEVE

MARIA, CILDER SL]+ I VO

and imposing, sitting bolt upright with his cane
between his knees, and gazing in a very\uncom-
romising way into vacancy, The scot settled
without exchanging a word, the doctor buttoned
his coat tightly, grasped his canie firmly, and
sternly began his return homeward. His way led
the length of Main Street, and seldom was any
one bold enough to accost him then.
Once, at such a time, Mr. Mumbie crossed his
path (it was shortly after the delivery of the doc-
tor's lecture on Eccentricity), and ventured to
greet him with a smile and extended hand :
"Good-day, doctor."
" Sir to you," replied the doctor, halting in a
military attitude.
" Fine afternoon, doctor."
"Very fine indeed, sir. Ha ! very fine."
" Doctor, you'd hardly believe it, but to-day is
my birthday," said Mr. Mumble, assuming a tri-
umphant air as if he were imparting a surprising
piece of news.
"I see no reason to doubt it," replied the doc-
tor, curtly.
"Yes, sir, that is so," rejoined Mr. Mumbie

with decisionI; "'m a much older man, let me tell
you, than you take me for."
Dr. Wattletop looked as if he were prepared
to take Mr. Mumbie for any age whatever, for
that gentleman presented what might be styled an
anachronistic appearance. He was a large man,
offering at first view a protuberant expanse of
waistcoat, supported by somewhat unstable legs.
His head was an oblong one, covered with a curly
glossy brown wig, that contrasted singularly with
thick gray eyebrows, and dyed whiskers on flabby
cheeks flanked by two large ears.
"Yes, sir," repeated Mr. Mumbie, "I'm a much
older man than you take me for. .You know Mrs.
Mumbie is much my junior, and that I never
made up my mind to marry until late in life-.
that accounts for it."
"Accounts for what ? " inquired the doctor, be-
ginning to be bored.
Accounts for the-the discrepancy I spoke
of. Now, here's a knife," and Mr. Mumbie.
drew from his'pocket a jack-knife, the bone-
handle of which was yellow with age, "here's
a knife that I have carried about with me since
I was a boy. It was given to me, as a birth-

98

99


100

MART GILDS SLErn *

day present. Just notice the date I scratched
StNov. 16th, 1814. Just think of
on the handle-  v
that. I've carried it for going on fifty years-yes,
'  JQir, fifty years. I doubt if there many men, or mn
any man, can say as much; and what changes
taken place since then! But I'm a man of
ng local attachments. Ihad an umbrella, doc-
o , when I was first married that I had used
steadily for twenty-six years-think of that! I
suppose I would have had it yet, but Mrs. Mumbie,
unfortunately, was prejudiced against thatum-a
brella, and one day it disappeared. I never saw
it again." This was said solemnly, and Mr.
Mumbie looked as if he were about to pay the
tribute of a tear to the manes of the departed
umbrella.
The doctor's patience becoming weary, he was
about to turn on his heel to leave, when Mr.
Mumbie resumed:
"Doctor, I ought to thank you for the pleas-
ure you afforded me the other evening. I haven't
had such a treat in a long time. 'Pears to me
you might make lots o' money going about deliv-
ering that lecture. It was capital. You did get
off some of the funniest anecdotes I ever heard,

MARK GILDERSLEEVE.          101
and I assure you I was really very much enter
tamed "
" Entertained, sir ! Dammit, sir, do you take
me for a mountebank? " exclaimed the doctor,
swelling with rising indignation.
It required very many apologies and explana-
tions on Mr. Mumbie's part to allay the ire of the
physician, who continued, after parting with his
interlocutor, to mutter to himself as he went
along: "Entertained him! Am I, Basil Wattle-
top, a buffoon ? Does he attempt to patronize
me ? The insolence of these Yankee upstarts is
really something perfectly amazing ! It's almost
beyond belief."  Unfortunately, his dignity that
day was destined to be subjected to further ruf-
fling, for as he neared the Archimedes Works he
caught sight of the proprietor thereof, who was
loungingas usual on the door-step of his "office,"
with his hands in his pockets. No man, we will
venture to say, that kept his hands as often pock-
eted, ever earned so much money as George Gil-
dersleeve; but if his hands were idle, his eyes
were, busy and everywhere. A   more vigilant
pair of optics never lodged in a human head.
"Now, that fellow," soliloquized the doctor, allud-


ing to George,"has sense enough to know that
he springs from the lees. He don't attempt to
ape his betters or to patronize them, and his rude-
ness and ignorance are far less offensive than the
insufferable pretensions of that snob Mumbie-
"Hold up, Major," broke in George, hailing the
doctor stentoriously. "Step over here a moment.
Foreman of my finishing-shop split his thumb
to-day in a lathe, and I want you to look at it."
The doctor was in doubts whether to respond
to an appeal so unceremoniously conveyed. He
decided, however, after a short debate with him-
self, to cross over to the counting-room and ex-
amine the injured man. The hurt being dressed
and pronounced but a slight affair, he was about
to leave when George Gildersleeve must needs
engage him in a discussion, which gradually
drifted into the delicate subject of the compara-
tive merits of Englishmen and Americans. At
this time there were sputterings in Congress, and
in the newspapers, in regard to a fresh "outrage"
perpetrated by the navy of Great Britain on our
flag, and the general expression was that we were
not " going to stand i

MARK GILDERSLEEVE.

103

George fdr his part certainly vas not, and said
so plainly: "Look here, Major, do you see that ?"
(pointing to an old horse-shoe nailed over the fire-
place.) "Right here was my grandfather's forge,
and right about here's where he shod ,Gineral
Washington's horse just awhile afore he fought
the great battle of Trenton, and that's one of
the cast-off shoes, and I wouldn't take a thousand
dollars for it. Well, sir, the man that rode that
horse that my grandfather shod, faxed you Eng-
lishmen out of your boots; and I tell you we've
plenty more that can do it now, and they'll do it
again, if you Johnny Bulls don't behave your-
selves; now mind."
Dr. Wattletop, being in that condition when
he was excessively patriotic, prejudiced, and punc-
tilious, was so utterly dunbfoundered by this
tirade, that for a moment apoplexy was immi-
nent. Luckily, contempt supervened, and with a
smile of scorn and withering irony, he repeated,
"Washington-Trenton-great battle of Trenton,
I believe you said? Do you seriously call that a
battle? Why, my man, do you know what a
battle is? At the so-called battle of Trenton the
total loss, according to your historians, and their

102

MARK GILDERSLEEVE.

v


ARK GILDERsLEEVE.        105

104         MARK GLDERsLEEVE.

statements are evidently grossly exaggerated-the
total loss in killed on both sides amounted to five-
and-twenty, including a drummer, who received a'
black eye in the shindy ; five-and-twenty killed!
all told-all told!"
George Gildersleeve shook his head incredu-
lously at this statement, and the doctor continued:
"Now, if you will take the trouble to instruct
yourself a bit, you will find out what Englishmen
can do. Read, for instance, an account of the battle
of Waterloo. Talk of Homeric heroes! What's
Achilles and the well-greaved Greeks to the Iron
Duke and the Guards ?-what's Ajax Telamon to
Shaw the Life-guardsman ? tell me that-tell me
that ?" Shaw the Life-guardsman was the doc-
tor's favorite hero, and he never failed, when the
occasion offered, to bring him in as the compeer
of all the paladins of old, from Hector to Roland.
" Ah! there was fighting such as the world
ne'er saw before," continued the doctor, kindling
with enthusiasm. "Not the famous Macedonian
phalanx nor the Roman legion held their ground
so stoutly as the squares of British linesmen when
the steel-clad squadrons of cuirassiers broke
against them in vain."

" That was all very well when you fought them
Frenchmen and Greeks. But when you tackled
us, you found a different sort of people to deal
with, I reckon. Old Put, and Jackson, and
Gineral Scott, were too much for you, old man,"
returned George, with a shake of the head that
ought to have settled matters.
Dr. Wattletop's nose glowed with a fiercer heat,
and if looks could have scorched a man, Gilder-
sleeve would have shrivelled on the spot; but the
chances are that even the glances of that pleasant
dame Medusa would have fallen harmless on
the pachydermatous master of the Archimedes
works.
" Why, confound it, man, you talk like an ass.
Should her Gracious Majesty, the Queen of Eng-
land, ever deign to notice the vaporings of your
politicians, and take it into her head to resent
them, she'd send the Channel fleet over here and
knock your blasted country into finders in no
time, and dammit, I wish she would-!" and with
that volley the doctor turned on his heel, and left
abruptly, to work off his choler by an additional
tramp of a mile or two.
5*


MARK GILDERSLEEVE.        107

106         MARK ILDERSLEEVE.
"How are you to convince a pig headed, obsti-
nate man like that" said George, turning to his
book-keeper . lHe's so prejudiced that he won't
listen to reason, and must have his own way."

V'[
WrnLE all the efforts of man, long-repeated, to
change the baser metals into gold have proved fu-
tile, it is no less certain that gold, in revenge, has
been successful in transmuting man. The power
of its moral alchemy is seen in individuals like
Rufus Heath. Poor, he would have remained a
fawning toady, but wealth transformed him into a
haughty, arrogant aristocrat at heart. No Sorer-
set or Rohan was ever more so. Starting in life
without other capital than a moderate education,
tact, and industry, his first aim was to acquire
wealth. His tastes were luxurious and refined,
and to gratify them wealth was necessary. So
to succeed he was plastic and serviceable to his
employers, and assiduous in courting useful
friends. A good name is a great stepping-
stone, and to secure this he was correct and re-
spectable in his conduct and demeanor. "Cor-
rectness," in fact, was his religion and code of
morality. Of course, right and wrong were rela-
tive terms, and it was not to be expected that


MARK GILDERSLEEVE.g109

108          MAVTI1tGLDLRnSLEEVJE*

any one should live up to the exact letter of
the law. A margin was allowable.
Nevertheless, decorum and all outward observ-
ances were due to society, and indispensable.
Acting.on this principle, there was no more popu-
lar and respected young man at twenty-one, in
Belton, than Rufus Heath, nor one with brighter
prospects. Counsellor Hull, his patron, declared
that the young lawyer promised to be an orna-
ment to the profession ; and when the Counsellor
was called to the bench, Rufus Heath succeeded
to his practice. Exempt from gross vices, and gift-
ed with an elastic conscience, the thriving lawyer
successfully pursued his calling, until his marriage
with Miss Obershaw crowned his pecuniary pro-
sperity. Now the influence of riches made itself
manifest, and it almost seemed as if the precious
metals had been injected into his veins. He stiff-
ened, became cold and imperturbable, laid aside
his urbanity, and his ill-concealed pride and con-
tempt for the less prosperous betrayed itself.
And now that he had tasted all the joys that
affluence can give, and tasted them unto satiety,
he craved the flattering unction of distinction.
Ambition was now his god. He was a politician,

"I

but a successful one only so far as he had been
assisted by his wealth aid family connections.
He owed it to these powerful auxiliaries that
he had spent a term in Congress. But he had
gained no prominence there. He lacked ora-
torical ability, and without it, it is scarcely
possible to attain eminence in a republic. His
daintiness, moreover, caused him to recoil from
contact with the masses, and though he strove
to overcome this repugnance when the occa-
sion called for it, he had never entirely succeed-
ed. Perseverance, intrigue, and a lavish expen-
diture of money, were the reans he relied on
to ascend the first steps of political preferment.
Once fairly launched as a public man, he doubted
not his ability to make his way and mark as a
statesman or a diplomat. To become Governor
of his State was his present aim, and he had laid
his plans to secure the nomination from his party
as a candidate at the next election. To this end
a host of emissaries, with money at command,
were at work throughout the State.. The Belton
&amp;ntinel, the organ in the county of Mr. Heath's
party, advocated his interest with tremendous
energy, persistency, and abundance of adjectives.


110          MARK GTLDER5sEVae
Finnegass, the editor, was a poor printer, whose
shop, presses, types, and all were mortgaged to
Rufus Heath. This well-known fact furnished
an unfailing quantity of sarcasm to the Passaic
County Argus, the opposition sheet, that invari-
ably alluded to Finnegass as the "minion" or
"serf," either "pampered " or" truckling," of the
"aristocrat on the cliff."  These amenities were
treated by the editor of the Sentinel with com-
plete indifference, until once (stung into retortig
by some particularly sharp gibe) he referred to
the Argus as an "obscure sheet of no circulation,
edited by a low, ignorant felon." Obscurity and
"no circulation " were accusations too atrocious
to be borne, and the editor of the Argus flung
them back, with indignation, in the teeth of his
defamer. This brought out sworn statements of
copies issued by the two presses, and much evi-
dence on both sides was published; for the rival
editors were ready to go to any lengths to excul-
pate their respective papers from so heinous a
charge as obscurity or want of "circulation."
As for the personalities, they were treated as mild
banter, tending to enliven the canvass, and stimu-
late partisans.

MARK GILDERSLEEVE.        111

At this time, to quote the after-words of the,
Belton Sentinel, "the horizon of. political affairs
was darkening, and the clouds that confined the
storm destined to shake the fabric of our Union
to its foundation, were gathering ominously."
The different parties were in a ferment. The
Whigs no longer existed-they had given way to
an organization originated by the Free-Soilers,
and styling themselves Republicans.. There were,
however, a large number of old Whigs wedded
to their prejudices, with a distaste for affiliation
with the Democrats and a greater repugnance to
a party tainted in any degree with Abolitionism,
who looked upon the new movement as an ephem-
eral ebullition. These individuals, calling them-
selves "Conservatives," imagined that it required
but an effort on their part to still the waters of
political strife, and decided to constitute them-
selves "bulwarks," and " arks of safety." Among
these was the Hon. Rufus Heath. Like- all men
of his stamp, he was utterly opposed to any dis-
turbance of the established order of things.. He
was perfectly well satisfied with them as they
were. As for radicals or reformers, he hated
their very name. - Such people sprang from the


MARK GILDERSLEEVE.       113

112         MAR GILDERsLEEVE.
lgar herd, and were only bent on mischief.
uis ideal of a proper government was a constitu-
tional monarchy supported by an oligarchy of
wealthand to this form he believed the republic
was radally tending. He was not unobservantt
of the increasing prestige of birth. Position in
the army navy, or state was gradually tending to
perpetuate itself in certain families. The bearers
of historic names wielded a certain influence,
which increased with time, and would eventually
ard under certain circumstances crystallize into
decided power. Here were the germs of an
oligarchy, which needed but a law of entail to
perfect itself and institute a class of hereditary
legislators, or house of pesh    blak-
dispensable against the agrarianism inherent in a
democratic form of government.
In order to exchange views on the condition of
the body-politic, and devise means to combat the
evil influences then prevailing (to say nothing of
advancing his own personal plans), Mr. Heath
took advantage of the presence in the vicinity of a
statesman who had occupied a very exalted po-
sition in the commonwealth, to ask him to meet

at dinner, sundry other influential and distin-
guished citizens, and confer on the important
subjects mii question.
The preliminary step was to send for Mr.
Mumbie. Mr. Heath bad an imperial way of
summoning people to him, and his mandates
were generally obeyed with alacrity-always so
when addressed to his good old neighbor and
'toady, Mumbie; who, although suffering from an
attack of rheumatic gout, hobbled as quickly as
his swollen feet would permit him, in prompt re-
sponse to the call.
"Mumbie," said Mr. Heath, "I suppose you
have heard that there is a great deal of talk
about my running for Governor at the next
election?"
Mr. Mumbie had not heard of it, nor had any
one else ; but he looked and nodded as if it were
a familiar and constant topic of conversation with
everybody.
"well, I have not yet made up my mind
whether I will consent to run or not. However,
that is neither here nor there at present, nor what
I wanted to gee and talk with you about. Sena-
tor Rangle is your brother's wife's cousin, I be


114         nARg GILDERsLE EVE.
live, and you are on a familiar footing with him,
are you not "
" Yes, sir," said Mumbie, listening attentively.
" So I thought. Now Rangle and I are not on
the very best of terms. He accuses me, I be-
lieve, of having used my influence against him
in the Legislature, when he sought a renomination
-said I wanted the place myself, and so forth.
He is mistaken in that. However, I am willing-
to pass it over, as this is a time when personal
feeling should not interfere to prevent men from
acting in accord on vital questions of state.
Here is the point. I have asked ex-President
to meet Judge Hull at dinner Thursday
week. Several other prominent gentlemen will
be present, and matters of importance may be
discussed. Now, Mumbie, you can assist me in
this way: call on Rangle, state to him that as my
friend you regret that there should be anydiver~
gence of opinion between us; that from your
personal-knowledge I have never held any but
the highest opinion of him; and so on. You
might then introduce the subject of the proposed
dinner, and state that you know that I would be
pleased to have him make one of the company.

MARK GILDERSLEEVE-       115

On your report, if everything is satisfactory, I
can forward him a formal invitation. Now, my
dear Mumbie, you will help me in t-his little
matter, and I can rely on your discretion, I
know."
" Certainly, Mr. Heath, certainly. I shall be
delighted to undertake the job;" and Mr. Mum-
bie hastened off, big with the importance of his
mission, and happy as if he had received an or-
der for ten thousand reams of foolscap, paid for
in advance. His task was an easy one. The
senator was flattered by Mr. Heath's advances,
and in no way averse to partake of his dinners,
whose celebrity had reached him; moreover, in
no way disinclined to forego the opportunity of
meeting ex-President    , whose political star
seemed to glimmer forth again in the.ascendant.
It is almost superfluous to mention, that the
dinner was all that could be expected, for what-
ever Mr. Heath's other qualities may have been,
good taste he unquestionably possessed, and in
the important matter of dinner-giving he was
behind no one. -And when it is considered how
important a part that art has displayed in di-
Plomacy, it could not be denied that his aspira-


MAI  LESJIIV.MARK GILDERSLEBYE

lions to shine in that career were not by any
means presumptuous. An opinion, it is safe to
say, that would have been heartily indorsed by
all who were fortunate enough to partake of the
memorable repast. Perhaps a little less starched
ceremony on thepart of the host would not have
been amiss; still, that was more than compensated
by the quality of the mewu. As usual on such
extraordinary occasions, an eminent chef from the
metropolis directed the culinary operations, and
many bottles of old South Side Madeira and
choice Hermitage, that had lain for years in dusty
racks, were brought to light, and decanted for
the delectation of appreciative palates; such a pal-
ate, for instance, as a Chief Justice of great legal
acumen and good digestion, or a portly ex=Fed-
eral dignitary possesses, or even that of a dainty
young High-Church ecclesiastic full of zeal and
sentiment, like Spencer Abbott. What a fine
dinner it was, to be sure! Rather formal and cold,
it is true, in the drawing-rooms as the host was
'receiving his guests. Mrs. Applegate was flushed
and fidgety amid such illustrious visitors, and Mr.
Mumbie was ill at ease in his capacious white
waistcoat, tight gloves, and freshly dyed whiskers.

Such grand company impressed him immensely,
and for fear of lapsus lingua, he restricted him-
self to monosyllabic replies. The Chief Justice,
being hungry, was somewhat surly until dinner
was announced, when he ponderously and feebly
toddled into the dining-room in advance of the
other guests, and regardless of Mr. Heath's inten-
tion to have him lead Mrs. Applegate in. This
duty therefore devolved on the ex-Federal digni-
tary, who did it with much courtly grace. How
well the host presided, and how elegant he ap-
peared! His stately white neck-tie and glossy
gray locks were arranged with a precision that was
mathematical, and with his small elegant white
hands he looked as if he were descended from a
long line of partridge-fed ancestors. A worthy
pendant, indeed, to the ex-Federal dignitary,
whose proudest boast was that he had been com-
plimented by a queen as the most elegant Amer-
ican gentleman she had ever seen. What a con-
trast the two presented to Judge Hull, with his
fell of white hair streaming over his massive
head and bent shoulders, his beetling sable
brows shading a pair of cavernous eyes, and
who always looked as if he were on the bench

116

117

0

MAR   GILD E ,SLE+ E + o


118         MIARK GILDEESLEEVE.
administering inexorable justice. He certai ly
did to the dinner, and it was with dificulty that
he could be drawn out by the host, and made
to enlighten the company with bits of prodigious
wisdom. Finnegass, the editor of the Sentinel,
who occupied a seat at the farther end of the
table, and expected to gather material for a bril-
liant leader from the table-talk of the assembled
sages, was greatly disappointed at the common-
place style of the conversation.
"IHeath, this soup's not so bad," quoth the
Judge during a short breathing spell; "I'11l
take another plateful. What do you call it?
Potage d lct Reine.   Haqenptae eht
Well-named, verily. A man might well sell his
birthright for a mess of such, and not be a fool
either."
"Touching the late proceedings in Congress,
Judge," edged in Mr. Heath, "you cannot have
failed to notice how the breach is gradually wid-
ening. There seems to be a disposition on the
part of certain members to push matters to ex-
tremes, and bring about a rupture at any cost.
Don't you think, that an expression of opinion--
a decided expression on the part of the higher

MARK GILDERSLEEVE.          119
classes-the respectable and influential part of the
community, would go far to-to_-"
"This can be arranged and must be," replied
the Judge, addressing his plate dogmatically. "The
hot-heads of both parties must be made to listen
to reason, and the, conservative element of the
country should at once take the reins. By the bye,
this white Burgundy is the same I've tasted here be-
fore, is it not? Yquem, you said ? A good wine-
a very good wine. The field has been left entirely
too much to the fanatics of the East and the fire-
eaters of the South, and to stop the current of dem-
agogisminvhich threatens to overwhelm us, we need
the best efforts of sound sagacious statesmen like
our friend here."
The friend referred to by the Judge's fork was
the ex-Federal dignitary, who bowed an acknowl-
edgment of the flattering allusion, and with a
little deprecatory wave of the hand replied, "No
doubt-no doubt, Judge, you are quite right. All
that is necessary is to bring the best men of the
country together to concerted action, and the mat-
ter can be settled without any difficulty. But
if we hold aloof-if the great legal lights, such
gentlemen as yourself or our friend Mr. heath;


MARK GILDRsLEEV121

120         MARK GILDERSLEEVE.

or the heads of finance, as represented by our
friend on my left, Mr. Bawbee; or the master-
minds of the manufacturing and industrial inter-
ests, such as our friend Mr. Mumbie; in short, if
the intellect and wealth and respectability of the
nation do not interfere, and continue to permit
men like Sumner and Seward to persist in their
incendiary leadership, we may-I say it without
hesitation and with great regret-we may expect
any catastrophe."
Mr. Mumble, who had been listening with awe
and attention to the words of the great men in
whose presence he was, reddened with modest
confusion on being designated as a master-mind.
He had never taken exactly that view ofihimself,
but on reflection, concluded it to be an eminently
fit and proper one, and felt that the world had
much to answer for in having so greatly under-
rated him hitherto. " I quite agree with you. I
do indeed, sir. Your remarks are very correct, sir;
very correct indeed, I assure you, sir," spoke he,
feeling that he ought to say something to keep up
his reputation of a master-mind.
Finnegass, the editor, emboldened by generous
wine, ventured to remark : " In my article in last

Monday's Sentinel, I alluded to this very subject,
and put it in rather forcible terms to the-"
But he was cut short by the Judge, who, being
at leisure between courses, resumed his harangue:
" The proper way to settle this trouble is very sim-
ple. It can be arranged with very little difficulty.
I am quite confident of that, and speak advisedly.
All that is necessary is a conference of the patrio-
tic intellects from all sections North and South,
East and West, to restore harmony to the councils
of our country. Of course, forbearance is indis-
pensable, and a spirit of conciliation should pre-
side over all deliberations, and-this patdehas the
appearance of being very fine-very fine. I'll
take some more of the truffes."
"I wrote an article which created-" again
attempted Finnegass.
"Mr. Bawbee, a glass of wine with you, if you
please," said the host, adroitly checking the edi-
tor, and nodding gracefully to the financier.
Mr. Bawbee was a Western banker, of Scotch
birth, who had made no end of pelf by starting
banks and issuing paper money. He took the
floor, figuratively speaking, and predicted the
dismemberment of the Union, Mr. Bawbee be-


MARK GILDERSLEEVE.

MARK GIaDERsLEEVE-l

ing a shrewd, hard-headed Scot, had an opinion
of his own. "It'll never do in the world, Judge.
The matter has gone too far. lIark my words,
gentlemen, you'll see the States divided into three
confederacies, and that within two years. I know
the sentiments and temper of the Western people,
andif the South secedes, which it doubtless will,
the West will sever their- connection with the
East. In my section they deem their interests
more closely identified with those of the South,
than with the manufacturing East, and will never
permit the mouth of 'the Mississippi, their great
natural highway, to pass into the control of a
foreign people, hence it is not improbable that in
certain eventualities they would join hands with
the South; but I .am inclined to believe, as I
mentioned at first, that the upshot will be a di-
vision into three confederations, and perhaps, as
the Pacific States grow in importance, into four."
"Tut-tut, Mr.Bawbee," interrupted Mr. Justice
Hull, "all those minor differences and territorial
jealousies can be reconciled. As I have before
stated, a well-selected conference could settle the
vexed question in a short time. Get the right men
together, and I have no doubt as to the result."

The Judge was inclined to be impatient of
other people's opinions when they clashed with
his own, aid was always the Sir Oracle of his
circle.
The Rev. Spencer Abbott, who was not greatly
interested in the questions of state discussed by
the other guests, diverted himself in dulcet
small-talk with his fair neighbor, the daughter of
the house. In spite of an evident desire to
please, he was apparently unsuccessful, for Miss
Edna showed signs of weariness by an occasional
pouting" of her delicate lips,, and seemed much
relieved when the cloth being drawn, enabled her
and her aunt, who were the only ladies present,
to retire to the drawing-room. Poor Abbott
would gladly have joined them, for he was
dreadfully bored by Finnegass, who, exalted by
wine and in default of any other listener, at-
tached himself to the clergyman, and treated
him to choice extracts from stirring leaders,
until it was only by steady sips of coffee and a
supreme effort of will, that Abbott refrained
from lapsing into slumber.
At length Rangle came to the rescue, and mer-
riment prevailed ; for that eminent senator, ignor-

123

122


MARK (GhDERSLEEV R125

124         MARK GILDERsLEVEj
ing the weighty topics under discussion, proved
a perfect cornucopia of jokes and funny anec-
dotes, and actually drew a smile from the grim
old Judge.
By this time Mr. Mumble had recovered his
self-possession, and grown bold and garrulous,
He ventured to occupy a vacant chair next to the
ex-President (that had been set apart for John
Heath. who had not condescended to appear); and
informed that dignitary that he (Mumbie) was a
much older man than any one would take him
for. As the ex-President, on being asked, failed.
to guess Mr. Mumble's age, Mr. Mumble imparted
the information, triumphantly adding that Mrs.
Numbie was very much his junior, as he had
married late in life. " Here's a knife," continued
he, drawing forth the bone-handled jack-knife,
" that I have carried steadily, sir, steadily for
over fifty years. Now I don't think there are
many such instances on record. -My local attach-
ments are very strong. It's a peculiarity in our
family which-
"Between ourselves, and what is said here will
of course go no farther," said Mr. Heath, with a
sharp glance at Mr. Mumble,," had we not better

take some preliminary steps at once, in regard to
the matter we have been discussing? I think
we are all of one opinion on the subject. With
your permission, Judge, I would suggest that you
and Senator Rangle should by all means go as.
delegates from this State. Our friend Mr.
ought of course to represent New York. Then I
have thought that perhaps Crittenden would be
of all men the most proper to lead the delegation
from his section. In fact, I have already written
him on the subject, and will send for a copy of
my letter and read it to you."
"Not now, Heath; I'll listen to it some other
time," said Judge Hull..
"Very well, I merely wished to show that I
have approached him in a cautious way, and in a
manner that I do not doubt will meet with your
approval. Now, how does the selection of dele-
gates strike you?. I mean, of course, as far as I
have gone?"
Well--well- I'll think of it--what liqueur
is that?"
The Judge did think of it, and the conference
was held, as we all know. The Judge, the ex-Fed-


MARK GTLDERsLEEVE.        127

126         MARK GILDERSLEEVE.

eril dignitary, and Senator Rangle, were all there,
and in company with other conservative gentle-
men tried to stop the Niagara flood of progress
with bulrushes. But the tide that was destined
to sweep away the last relic of barbarism in our
country, was rising fast, and the conservative
brooms that were striving to stem it were flour-
ished in vain.
Meanwhile Judge Hull took another ehasse-
caf' of cognac, to fortify himself against the
night air, and looking at his watch, directed his
carriage to be called, and rather unceremoniously
departed. The Rev. Spencer Abbott slipped
away to join the ladies in the drawing-room,
while the other guests accompanied the host to
the picture-gallery. After the ex-Federal digni-
tary, Senator Rangle, and Mr. Bawbee had retired
to their respective bedchambers for the night,
Mr. Heath remained closeted with Finnegass in
the library, while the former concocted an article
(the editor being incapacitated by the dinner from
any intellectual effort for the time being), to ap-
pear in the next issue of the Belton Sentinel, and
which he expected would create a marked sen-

nation. This article, a lengthy and portentous
leader, was prefaced by the following:
"we are gratified to announce'that a movement of very
great and general importance to the public, in relation to
the present crisis of political afairs,Ais in progress; the par-
ticulars of which having been communicated to us in con-
fidence, we do not feel at liberty to impart."
This statement having stimulated the reader's
curiosity and attention to a proper degree, the
writer, after a few paragraphs, relented from
his stoical secrecy, and with generous confidence
divulged the fact that he had been invited to
be present-
"at an informal meeting of distinguished citizens, among
whom were ex-President -, senator Rangle, Chief Jus-
tice Hull, Andrew Bawbee, Esq., the wealthy and influen-
tial western banker, M. Mumbie, Esq., and several other
gentlemen scarcely less eminent, held at the residence of
our esteemed fellow-townsman, Hon. Rufus Heath, to delib-
erate and take into consideration the critical situation of our
country. This assemblage, comprising, as it did, some of the
greatest minds of the country, and men conspicuous for their
ability in all the higher walks of life-the bench, the bar,
the clergy, statecraft, fiance, and the manufacturing inter-
est being all represented-were enabled to bring to the con-
sideration of the topic before them that mature reflection,
and careful, dispassionate deliberation, which are the fruits
only of rare sagacity and profound wisdom. Good faith for-
bids us to say more, and we have no desire to be premature,
but we think we may venture to add, that it was decided to

0


128         MARK GtERsmavE.

hold, at an early day, a grand National cdncil, to sit at some
central point, and to be -composed of delegates from every
section of the Union. We will not pursue the subject fur-
ther at present, but we cannot refrain from observing that,
the fact that these gentlemen, whose names are synonyms for
all that is great, wise, and patriotic, should devote their
energies to devise means to avert the storm that threatens
the safety of the ship of state, is one of the most hopeful
signs that an era of concord is at hand, when sectionalism,
radicalism, and demagogism in every shape and form, will
meet a merited doom, and be banished forever from the Leg-
islative halls of a free, united, and prosperous people.
" It is but just to state that the idea and inception of this
proposed National conference, which will doubtless mark an
epoch in our country's history, is due to our fellow-citizen,
Hon. Rufus Heath, whom the spontaneous and united voice,
of the people has designated as the next occupant of the
gubernatorial chair of this State. When we see such evi-
dences of enlightened patriotism, such an unselfish love of
country on the part of a gentleman whose wealth and posi-
tion are a sufficient guarantee that he is actuated by no
desire for personal aggrandizement or ambitious motive, we
do not wonder that his countrymen, without distinction of
party, turn instinctively towards him as the proper leader
and councillor in this hour of trial, when, if ever, sound
statesmanship and disinterested devotion to the welfare of
the whole country are needed. And while we know that it
will be no easy matter to prevail upon Mr. Heath to run for
the office, and that he would, with extreme reluctance, give
up his retirement and important occupations, and could only
be moved by a strong sense of duty to again enter the arena
of public life, we feel that the people have the right to ask
him, in this exigency, to so far sacrifice his personal interests
and inclinations, and yield to their wishes, by accepting a
post which he, of all others, is best fitted to fill-that of
GOVERNOR OF THE STATE OF NEW J.RSEY."

This article had the good fortune to attract
the notice of the metropolitan sheets, who com-
mented on the purposes of the ex-Federal digni-
tary and his friends in various terms. The radi-
cal press poked facetiousness at the venerable
statesmen; called them  fossils; and compared
them to the famous tailors of Toolgy Street; but
whose faulty was it that the great Peace Congress
resulted in unsuccess, and that the, well-meant
efforts of its members were fruitless?  Whose,
but that of those perverse spirits who would not
recognize the fact that "Canaan was cursed;" and
that it was flying in the face of Providence and
against Holy Writ, to meddle with his cursed-
ness in any way?
6a

MARK GTLDERSLELi VE.     129,


130    '    -   ARKt GILDERSLEEVE.

VII,
MR. HEATH was very well satisfied with the
result of his dinner-party. It had enabled him
to appear in the light of a leading and promi-
nent public man. He could in the future refer to
the views he had propounded on that occasion,
as the origin of the memorable "Peace Con-
gress," whereby the demon of discord was ban-
ished forever from the councils of the nation,
and the North and South were reconciled to
remain perpetually locked in a fraternal em-
brace. Then the opportune time would follow
when his great work, the "Federal Code," would
be accepted by an admiring people as a comple-
ment to the Constitution, and an additional band
to unite indissolubly tile fasces of the Union.
The prospect was brilliant and flattering, and
dizzy eminences of fame bewildered him. But
there was much to be done. It was the hour for
action, and with fervent enthusiasm he set to
work. He opened a correspondence with every

prominent public man in the country, every
prominent conservative man of course, on the
necessity of casting aloof from old organizations
and framing one better adapted to meet the exi-
gencies of the period.
The crisis was imminent, and prompt measures
to avert the peril were imperative. A movement
had been inaugurated, of which ex-President
was at the head, which required the adhesion of
every true lover of his country, etc., etc. This
was about the burden of every despatch, and Mr.
Frisbee, Mr. Heath's secretary, was almost dis-
tracted with the increased amount of writing and
multiplicity of letters. Meanwhile Mr. Heath
did not slacken in his efforts to obtain the candi-
dature for Governor. He wrote numerous articles
for the Sentinel, of like tenor to the one we
have quoted, in advocacy of his claim to the nom-
ination, and wherein, likewise, he showed no de-
sire to emulate the violet. Senator Rangle, who
had been much flattered by Mr. Heath's advances,
was appealed to and promised his aid. John
Peter, whose peculiar temperament was decidedly
antipathetic to labors at the desk, was made ser-
viceable in a different way.  He was the go-

MARK GnvERSLI @HvE.      131


132         MARK GUIDERSIEEVE.

between at primary elections and nominating con-
vention, to fee agents and distribute largess. His
chief, mission, however, was to court popularity
in Belton and the adjoining towns; for it will be
remembered that the Hon. Rufus Heath, despite
many munificent benefactions and public-spirited
acts, was anything but a favorite with his neigh-
bors. No amount of generosity on his part could
countervail the effects of his ill-concealed airs of
superiority, and patronizing suavity towards them,
and wounded self-esteem never forgets nor for-
gives. Mr. Heath was unaware of the prevalence
of this feeling against him, and' his instructions
to his son were intended simply to placate his
open and avowed opponents. In particular was
he anxious to conciliate George Gildersleeve.
That individual, to be sure, was, as he expressed
it, a "dyed-in-the-wool" Democrat, but Mr. Heath
argued that at the forthcoming election old issues
would be in a great measure abandoned, and
he hoped, if not able to obtain Gildersleeve's sup-
port, to at least secure his neutrality. George,
in truth, would have been a powerful auxiliary,
for apart from the large number of men in his
employment, who all liked him as a fair and lib-

MARK GILDERSLEEVE,         133
oral "boss," his bluff, hail-fellow ways won the
hearts of the hard-handed everywhere; and he
could control more votes than any other man in
the county. No wonder, then, that John Peter
suddenly became very deferential to him when
he met him at Hank Bird's livery stable; no
wonder that he solicited George's opinion on the
merits of a new trotter, and even came down to
the Archimedes Works for a social chat, where,
meeting Mark, he actually shook hands with him,
offered a cigar, and inquired. in a pleasant way
how he was "getting along." So astounded was
Mark at these unexpected amenities, that h% did
not know how to take them; but his surprise
over, he replied with equal friendliness, not
being one to harbor resentment when a show of
placation was made-especially when it came
from Edna Heath's brother. So the two young
men had a pleasant smoke together, recalled
reminiscences of their school days; of old Pug-
wash, who kept the academy, and of the great
conspiracy in which Jack was the ringleader, to
thrash old Pugwash, when the boys signed a round-
robin (an awful compact), with red: ink in lieu
of blood, that fluid--although the proper one to


134.        MARK GILDERSLE EVE.
have used under the circumstances-not being
readily procurable; and how old Pugwash, getting
hold of the round-robin, turned the tables on the
conspirators by flogging them one and all sound-
ly. These and many similar incidents were
talked over until all constraint wore off, and when
they separated, Mark felt convinced that he had,
greatly misjudged' Jack Heath, and was much
pleased at the reconciliation. He told his sister-
in-law that evening, when relating the circum-
stance of their meeting, that Jack was as good-
hearted a fellow at bottom as ever lived, the
only, trouble with him being his inclination to
drink.
"Dear, dear, what a pity!" said Mrs. Gilder-
sleeve, whose sympathies were instantly aroused.
"I've noticed signs of it for some time, and feel
so sorry for him. He has grown so fleshy for a
young man, and his face is alwa  so flaming red.
Such a beautiful complexion as he used to have,
too, when a boy-and to think that it is all owing
to this dreadful, dreadful habit of drinking! If
he would only consent to join our Band of Hope.
Don't you think, Mark, you might persuade him
to joinI or do you think it would- be better to

MARK GILDERSLEEVE.        135

have Brother Close speak to him on the subject
first?"
Mark shook his head dubiously at these sugges-
tions, as if he mistrusted his ability or that of the
entire Band of Hope, to say nothing of Brother
Close, to induce Jack Heath to falter in his devo-
tion to strong waters.
"I'm afraid it's inherited, sister Margaret,"
said he. "They say he had a grand-uncle who
died from the effects of drink, and that his
grandfather, old Mr. Obershaw, had a great pro-
pensity that way, and that the only thing that
saved him was his stinginess. Much as he loved
liquor, he loved money more, and seldom drank
it except at somebody else's expense."
"Well, my child, let us not judge lest we
be judged. Old Mr. Obershaw no .doubt did a
great many good deeds that we know nothing
about, and as he is now in the hands of One who
is all-wise and merciful, it does not become us to
pass judgment on his memory. I don't see why it
is that people are so censorious ; I should think that
after all the money that Mr. Obershaw spent in
building that church and endowing it, that every
sensible person would be convinced that he was a


MARK GILDERsLEvE.        137

136    .    gn GILDERSLEEVE.

Christian, and I'm sure no one could find fault
with the way in which the money he saved is
being used, for there is. not an institution, or a
society, or object of any kind, that the Heaths
don't give to."
"That may all be, sister Margaret, and it's
very praiseworthy, no doubt. 'All I said, of
meant to say, was that I didn't think Jack Heath
was so much to blame for drinking, as he inherited
the propensity from his grandfather, who they say
had the reputation of being a hard drinker."
"Well, I suppose we shall all have to answer
for ourselves," replied Mrs. Gildersleeve, reflect-
ively.  "And very likely it's his misfortune and
not his fault."-
The worthy, lady's capacity for forgiveness and
charity was unbounded; far more ready, too, to
defend than to censure, and she doubtless would
have had a good word for Satan himself, had his
sable majesty been captured and arraigned. for
judgment.

VIII.
MONTI after month passed away, and Mark had
not dared to repeat his visit at the Cliff. Gladly'
would he have done so, however, could he have
found any plausible pretext. One important
point, however, was gained. He had learned that
Edna Heath wis not the inaccessible princess he
had imagined; and moreover, enjoyed the ex-
treme gratification of knowing, or rather feeling,
that she was aware of his existence-that she act-
ually remembered, and even noticed him, when
he met her at the church-porch on Sundays.
These opportunities were almost the only ones
he had of seeing her, but the smile and bow
with which she recognized him were enough
to fill his heart with pleasure during the in-
tervening week. Occasionally when at work
he would hear the well-known din of the
Heath equipage dashing up Main Street in all
the pomp of its domestics in drab liveries, and
Dalmatian dogs, and his pulse would quicken, if


MARK GILDlERSLEEVE.       139

138         MARK GILDERSLEEGVE.

through his window he caught a momentary
glimpse of Edna among the occupants of the
vehicle. He failed not to take his evening strolls
towards the Cliff; to pass and repass the huge
iron gates that seemed to bar him from his dear-
est hopes; and to linger about, indulging in all
those absurd, preposterous fancies that addle the
pates of all true lovers.
Summer came, and Edna went off with the.
Mumbies on a long tour through the White
Mountains and Canada. During her absence,
how desolate and dreary the world seemed to
Mark ! Belton became unbearable, and he wan-
dered about its streets in a frame of mindgcom-
pared to which Marius' feelings amid 'the ruins
of Carthage were bliss. It was in one of these
melancholy fits that he composed his elegiac
stanzas, entitled Love's Coronach, and commene-
ing with these lugubrious lines:
Shadows from the plumed pall,
Enwrap my soul in woe,
My life, my hope, my all
Is gone!And every poignant throe
etc., etc., etc.
But when she returned, the world seemed to

recover its glory, life its spice, and he was
happy in being near her, even if he did not see
her.. When autumn came, and the grove near
the Falls and the maples along the river road were
gorgeous with brilliant hues, Mark took long
walks along the Passaic-side, chiefly to meet Miss
Heath, who rode often on horseback, and went
dashing along at a pace that the groom in at-
tendance had difficulty in keeping up with.
She always found time, however, to acknowl-
edge Mark's salute, as he stood staring in re-
spectful admiration at the lithe, graceful figure,
so smart in dark riding habit, small white collar
and blue silk cravat. He was selfish enough to
wish at those times that her horse would bolt
over the bank into the river, or do something.
that would give him a chance to rescue her life
at the peril of his own, and so prove his devotion.
Fortunately, perhaps, for the young lady, no such
opportunity occurred, and our hero was obliged
to content himself with less demonstrative wor-
ship and vent his passion in scribbling poetic
numbers.
The shortened days and inclement weather of
winter curtailed Mark's rambles, and his evenings


140         MARK GILnERSLEEVE.

141

were spent with his piano and books at home, or
with his briar-wood pipe and chess at Dr. Wattle-
top's.
One evening as he sat down to tea in the little
basement dining-room, his sister-in-law, with a
significant smile, laid an elegant envelope by
the side of his plate. "There, Mark," said she,
"there is something that will please you, I've no
doubt."
He opened the envelope with a little trepida-.
tion, and found it to contain, as he had half-sus-
pected, an engraved request from Miss Heath,
for the pleasure of his company at "The Cliff,"
on a certain evening.
" When it came this afternoon," said Mrs.
Gildersleeve, "I was in such a flutter. Bridget
was-out to see her sick sister, and I was washing
the dinner things when the bell rang. I just
took time to dry my hands and ran to the door,
for I expected as much as could be that it was
one of the men from the Works that your brother
said he would send to fix the grate, and I was so
confused when I saw it was a stranger-the young
man with a cockade on his hat that follows Miss
Heath when she goes out horseback riding--I

don't, know whether you have ever noticed him
or not?"
Mark said he thought he had; and his brother
remarked that it was another of those English
liveried flankeys that that old aristocrat, Rufe
Heath, had imported to demoralize our democratic
institutions.
"George," said Mrs. Gildersleeve, reproach-
fully, "you shouldn't talk in that way, my dear.
Mr. Heath does a great deal of good-a great
deal; and as for, the young man, I'm sure he was
very respectful and well-behaved, indeed. I
don't know, though, what he must have thought,
for I must have looked very untidy, and I was so
confused and flushed that I never once thought
of asking him whether he would walk in and sit
down, which wasn't a bit polite or hospitable on
my part. I hope, Mark, you will accept this
invitation, for you should certainly go out in
society more than you do. I do wish you had
been with us the other evening at Mrs. Sniffen's
tea-party. I don't know when I have had such a
delightful. time. Bishop White was there, and
the new minister who has been stationed lately at
the Furnaces-the Rev. Mr. Rousemup. His

MARK, G  ERSLERVE.


MA1R GIDmRS i+ "E

MARK GILDERSLEEVE.

wife has a beautiful voice, and she sang 'Plunged
in a Gulf of Dark Despair' so sweetly, that I'm
sure there couldn't have been a dry eye present.
I know you would have enjoyed it. But lately
you have taken to staying in your room too much;
you seem to have given up the Debating Society
altogether and never go anywhere, except it is to
Dr. Wattletop's, and I must confess that I don't
half like it. The doctor, to be sure, is one of
the kindest and best souls in the world, but he
has such very queer notions. They;even go so
far as to say that he is a freethinker. Now I
would be very sorry to believe that of any one ; but
he says such very strange things, if the reports are
true, and Brother Close told me that Mrs. Slocum
told him, that her nephew, James Cudlipp, said
that when he lived at old Mrs. Bradbury's, and
her brother died, he heard the doctor with his
own ears say at the funeral, that when people
became more civilized, they would burn the re-
mains of the dead and preserve their ashes. in
marble urns, instead of burying them in the earth.
Now, I do think such an idea as that is shocking'
and perfectly dreadful."
" Well, Maggie," put in her husband; as he

buttered a fresh biscuit, "every man to his trade.
Dr. Wattletop ain't no dominie, and don't pretend
to be, but his head's level on physic, and he's no
slouch of a sawbones, either. When he cut off
Sammy Tooker's leg I timed him, and he had it
all done clean in ten minutes and fourteen sec-
onds by my stop-watch, and Sammy's brother said
it was the best job of the kind he ever saw
done; and he ought to know, being a butcher
himself. Why, Pokemore, that you think is the
greatest doctor in The world, I'll bet would have
taken hours to do it, and made a botch of it after
all. The only fault I have to find with Wattle-
top is, that he's such a pig-headed John Bull."
Mark ventured a few words in defence of his
friend the doctor, and endeavored to allay the
rising apprehensions of Mrs. Gildersleeve in re-
gard to his imbibing any unwholesome opinions
from the eccentric physician.
"Now, Mark," continued Mrs. Gildersleeve, "I
do hope you will spruce up, and make yourself as
agreeable as possible at Miss Heath's party. I'll
say this for her, that there isn't a nicer, sweeter,
or more charitable girl in all Belton than she is.
Mrs. Sniffen says that she never calls upon her

142

143


MA1I GILDERsLEEVE

-145

for any contribution for any object whatever, but
what she gets all and more than she asks for; and
I do believe she supplies every sick person and.
funeral in the town with hot-house grapes and
flowers. Then she's-so very lady-like too. Dear
me, if I were a young man-well, I should think
you'd feel very much pleased at this invitation,
especially as you never took any pains to make
yourself agreeable to the family. But then, to
be sure, Edna Heath is kind to every one, and I
do believe that every man, woman, and child in
Belton loves her."
Mark felt as if he could not see the necessity
for that, and, if it were so, as if the population of
the town had audaciously conspired to infringe
on his province.
His brother, as he rose from table, also prof-
fered advice on the subject, "If you can hang up
your hat in that house, Mark, you're made for
life. She'll have more dollars than you can
shake a stick at, or know what to do with.
Never mind the old man; there's a good deal of
nonsense in. Rufe Heath's airs, and he's mild as
milk if he finds you aint anyway awed. Keep a
stiff upper lip-don't be cowed, and you're bound

to win. Whatever you do, though, be independent
-independent as a hog on ice, and they'll like
you all the better for it. That's my advice,
Time I was off to the Lodge."
Mrs. Gildersleeve did not entirely approve of
her husband's way of putting it, and observed,
"As to what your brother says, Mark, about Miss
Heath's fortune, or her father's fortune, I know
you never would be actuated by any motives in
regard to that. Miss Heath, I'm sure, will be a
treasure and prize to any man even if she never
has a penny in the world,"
"Very likely," said Mark, affecting indifference,
"Miss Heath is certainly a very pleasant and re-
fined young lady."
"Indeed, she is," said Mrs. Gildersleeve, em=
phatically, "and more than that, a very good
young lady."
Mark's gratification at receiving the invitation
was instantly dampened, when he reflected that he
could not avail of it without exposing himself to
unfavorable comparison in the eyes of one whom
he was most desirous of pleasing. The old feel-
ing of false shame, the morbid sensitiveness in
7

.&amp;           GILDERSL + i VEe

144


146          M  gARIg GUDERsLEEVE-
regard to his lameness, revived ; and he dreaded
to challenge criticism in an assemblage where he
longed to shine.. Hence it was with a sharp pang
of mortified vanity and disappointment that he
set about writing a "regret," alleging as an ex-.
cuse for not being able to accept Miss Heath's in-.
vitation, the conventional fib, a prior engagement.
Twice he wrote such a missive, and each time
tore it up when in. the struggle between sense and
self-love the former gained the ascendancy; but
in the end that exaggerated self-importance which
leads us to believe the rest of the world vastly in-
terested in our haps and mishaps, our appearance
and position-this infatuation triumphed, and the
"regret " was despatched.
" Well, Mark," said Mrs. Gildersleeve on the
appointed evening, "Miss hIeath's party comes
off to-night, don't it ? From all I hear it's going
to be a grand affair. They say there have been II
don't know how many hundred invitations sent
out, and some are coming even from New York."
" So much the better, then, for I don't think I
shall be -missed," said Mark with a forced smile.
Mrs. Gildersleeve dropped her work and looked

MARK GILDERstEy,

at him in surprise. "Missed!1 You don't mean
to say that you are not going?"
Mark looked rather confused, "I do mean to
say so. I-.-.I don't feel like it."
"Dear me, you're not, sick, I hope?" inquired
Mrs. Gildersleeve with a look of concern.
"No, sister, no--but I'm not in the humor to
go.
"Why, really, I'm so surprised and sorry. I
thought you would certainly take advantage of
such an invitation, for I know you would enjoy
it very much if you went. There is nothing ails:
you, is there, Mark?" said Mrs. Gildersleeve, re-
peating her inquiry,
"No, sister Margaret, no," replied Mark with a
little impatience, and to escape his sister-in-law's
inquisitive solicitude, he withdrew to his room.
He took up his guitar and tried to thrum the
Jota Aragonesa, but there was no melody there
to soothe his troubled breast. IH skimmed over
a page or two of Burton's "Anatomy of Melan..
choly," that Dr. Wattletop had recommended him
to read, but his feelings were too much in conso
nancewith the subject treated of to be diverted by
it, and he threw the book aside, filled his briar-

147

FRI
I


MARK GILDERSLEEVE,

149

MAR1 GILDERSLEEVE.

148

wood pipe, and sought consolation in Killikin.
nick. Even that resource failed him, and the
fire in the bowl died away unheeded. Then to
shake off the tristful thoughts he paced his room,
but the old wound inflicted by Edna's cruel com-
miseration seemed to bleed afresh, and the re-
membrance of that bitter pity unceasingly re-
turned, until chagrin gave place to anger vented
in fierce execrations on his halting foot, alterna-
ted with lamentations on his unfortunate condi-
tion. He believed he could have borne almost any
other bodily infirmity better, and would gladly
have given his right arm to walk as other men.
What an effort it had cost him to deny himself
the inestimable pleasure of beholding the object
of his adoration in all the pride of her beauty!
And yet, why had he done so ? Although imper-
fect in a trivial degree, would he, after all, suffer
much in comparison with others? Byron, the
splendid Byron, was lame, and so was Walter
Scott, and were they not the fdols of society'?
Would her glance fall that evening on a hand-
somer face? He stopped before a mirror, that
reflected eyes full of superb fire, and a brow as
fine as any that ever adorned child of Hellas, and

he smiled with gratified vanity, like a brainless
coquette. But instantly ashamed of his weakness,
he turned away, drew on his overcoat, and sought
the struts -to distract him from unwholesome
reveries. Unwittingly his feet followed the ac-
customed path, and he was half way to the Cliff
before he discovered his absence of mind. He
would have retraced his steps and gone in an-
other direction, but an irresistible impulse urged
him on.
It was a fine frosty night in February. There
was no moon, but the myriad of stars that stud-
ded the dark sky glinted like gems, and the at-
mosphere was bracing and exhilarating.   Mr.
Heath's residence presented a brilliant scene.
The lamps on the gate-posts, those hanging in the
porch, and the many illuminated windows shed
rays that tinted to brilliance the snow covering
the lawn and flecking the dark evergreens; while
here and thee a pendant icicle or the rime-cov-
ered bough of a tree coruscated like a crystal
prism. Mark stood for some time in contempla-
tion. He heard the sound of rippling music, the
muffled patter of hoofs and creaking of wheels
over the crisp snow as carriage after carriage de-

9f
r4 r..tt
"FK'j,  i
Mfr     ;
-r  1t
,4#!St
tr.  s  b t
01
i#5 ,3f
JJ  4'    e
M         A
YYn  it y t
i  r J
6d'f f r -
l  V~yR;
-    .l


MARK GILDERSLEE  9         151

MARK GILDERSLEEVE.o

posited its burden at the porch. At length, as if
drawn by some invisible magnet, he went stealthi-
ly up the avenue, slinking behind the evergreens,
and endeavored to gain a position whence to Ibok
unobserved through the drawing-room windows.
He felt like a spy, and started at every sound with
fear of being discovered, but the temptation to
see Edna was too powerful, and curiosity over.
came his scruples. Climbing on the ledge of a
conservatory, he could, by placing his feet on the
chamfered stone-work of the building, reach the
level of a large bay-window at one end of the
drawing-room. An inside sash was partly open, so
that he could both see and hear through the
blinds and remain unperceived. He now wit-
nessed a sight that soon banished his melancholy,
for joy in its fellows has a contagious influence
over youth difficult to resist, and he regretted the
foolish resolve he had made to abstain from
joining the party. They were nearly, all young
people; among -them, however, many strangers
to Belton. Mrs. Applegate, who matronized
them, rustled about in a voluminous dress of
moire-antique, and young Mrs. Ieath sat in an
easy-chair in one corner, resplendent with dia.

monds and languidly rattling a Spanish fan,
while her lord stood leaning in a door-way look-
ing sulky, bored, and uncomfortable as he fum-
bled away at a pair of tight gloves. The Rev.
Spencer Abbott, in the neatest of clerical attire,
was sauntering leisurely from group to group,
with his hands behind his back and an air of mild
benignity on his pallid countenance. Present,
too, were Will Hull and his sister Constance, the
Judge's grandchildren, and the Mumbies; Ada,
Bob, and the younger brother, Decatur, a sprig
from the Naval Academy, evidently under the
effects of his gilt buttons and embroidered foul-
anchors. Mark was not .long in discovering
Edna. Her fair face was heightened in color,
and beaming with joy. His eyes followed her
eagerly amid the couples that whirled swiftly by,
and he caught glimpses of her satin-shod feet,
arched like an Arab maid's. The music ceased,
and the confused chatter of many voices arose.
Close by him came a group of girls prattling to-
gether, and discussing their partners with the
frankness of guileless maidenhood.  Scraps of
their conversation reached him. One of the girls
was Constance Hull. Said she, "I do so like


MARK GILDERSLEEVE.

MARK GILDERSLEEVE.

to dance with Alfred, he keeps such excellent
time."
"But then he parts his hair in the middle,
Constance, and I think that is so horrid. Did
you notice his malachite sleeve-buttons and topaz
studs ? Wretched taste, isn't it? They say he is
engaged too-dear me! I don't see how any one
could marry a person with so little idea of what
is becoming. Do tell me who that gentleman is
that was dancing with Edna? I do think he is
too handsome for anything."
"Why, don't you know? Why, it's Sarah Car-
ver's cousin, Fred Spooner-isn't he splendid?
He came all the way from Boston. He's quite
smitten with Edna, and I know she admires him."
Mark's eavesdropping was sufficiently punished
by this intelligence, but he was destined to suffer
still further when. he saw Edna dancing again
with this admirer, who was a tall blooming
fellow, all ease and grace. He felt a pang of
jealousy when he saw them after the dance
promenading together; 1Spooner chatting with
animation and proud of his partner, while she
looked at him evidently pleased and amused at
Lis remarks. They came directly towards the

window and took seats in the recess. Miss Hull
and her companions had left the spot, and the
young fellow probably desired to enjoy a tate-d-
tate. He was pleading for a flower from Edna's
nosegay. "I beg and beseech you to bestow
upon me a bud from your beautiful bouquet."
"Dear me," said Edna, "what a quantity of
B's!"
"Yes, quite a swarm, attracted by your exces-
sive sweetness, of course," smirked Spooner,
pleased at his effort at wit; while Mark, who had
caught every word, thought it very silly, not to
say impertinent.
Edna selected a rosebud, which she gave to
her companion, who placed it in his button-hole.
"I shall keep it forever, Miss Heath."
" Indeed, how long is your forever ? "
"As long as memory holds a seat in this dis-
tracted brain, and longer. I'll take it home, and
when it wilts I'll press it in my prayer-book."
"Where you are sure never to see it again,"
remarked Edna.
"Merciless Miss Heath !.-Excessively warm,
though, here, isn't. it ? Hadn't I better throw
open the top blind?" and with that he pushed it
7*

153

152

HIS
+: t5 t
dTf ,s
t  Ri r 3
oil
:C^2
+;r
f gf.:.i
Fa
lc t51  .
n ;  r + E
riot;  t           k
fa
iF}  g
;c r 'y          t
Ills
4   F
t  tai: ,'f        -
t!tf    _
Zvi
", Si


154

MARK GILDERSLEEVE.

open, causing Mark to shrink aside to avoid dis.
cover, "Warm as a dog-day, isn't it? Talking
of dogs, are you fond of 'em, Miss Heath? I've
got just the smallest black-and-tan-well, he
don't weigh over twenty-three ounces, and if you
would only accept him, I'd be so delighted. I
think the world of him, and to know that he was
constantly near you, would make me the happiest
feller in existence. To be sure his ears aren't
cropped yet. Do you like cropped black-and-
tans? Or if you'd prefer a Spitz? I've got a
real nice Spitz, but he's snappish. Spitzes are
apt to be snappish, haven't you noticed? But then
he's just as good a ratter as any black-and-tan
you ever saw. When you come to Boston, if you
and Sarah Carver will only come to Roxbury-"
By this time, the .Rev. Spencer Abbott, who
was on his third round of inspection, came up
with a graceful droop to the couple: "Reposing
after the fatigue of the dance, I presume, Miss
Edna?   What a beautiful bouquet! Really,
Miss Edna, I think you have the most beautiful
bouquet of any young lady present. Miss Mum-
bie has an elegant one, but the blending of hues
is hardly so artistic in hers. Yours, ah-presents

MARK GILDERSLEEVE.         155
to the eye of the observer such a-such an ex-
quisite juxtaposition of colors. How fragrant,
too! Roses-heliotrope-..Dame Nature's jewels.
What a singularly beautiful conceit and myth
that was of the ancients, that roses sprang from
the blood of Venus. Dear me, therds quite a
draught here. Ah! I see-a window down-
aren't you afraid of catching cold? Lovely as A
Lapland night-a majestic one, truly ! How for-
cibly is one reminded of Milton's noble lines:
"'How glows the firmament with living sapphires
Hesperus that led-'
Fortunately for Miss Heath, who feared the
parson was about to favor her with a book or two
of "Paradise Lost," Bob Mumbie came up to claim
her for a redowa, and the Rev. Spencer Abbott
sauntered off and betook himself to-a critical ex-
amination, accompanied with poetical comments,
of Mercedita Heath's fan. Mark noticed that
Edna had left her handkerchief on the tripod
near the window, and as Fred Spooner had
darted away with Miss Mumbie and the coast
was clear, a sudden and uncontrollable desire
seized him to possess this handkerchief. Yield-

iR
,OF
ts5 g
$ i
!!de s oaf
Y; ! sjf
1t  d5 g 7
5'1 f
1 S {*
x  f#
s5
t Jf
t    !4
1,44
Y Y.  y s f

'A f NZ
SS , ;
is:- -
O-z
"' "4
i  -
i4 Fdf-_
tiiyi 4 3
f ( e
Qi    3"i
4      f


156

MARK GILDEUSLEEVE*.

ing to the impulse, and without further reflection,
he raised the lower sash of the window, crouched
under the tripod, snatched the coveted article,
and frightened at his temerity, instantly with-
drew. He hastened homeward, pressing the bit
of cambric to his lips, and rhapsodizing as he
went along like a demented Strephon. When he
arrived home, he found his sister-in-law sitting
up for him. She noticed that he looked somewhat
flushed and disturbed, but as he seemed to avoid
her scrutinizing eyes, she did not question him.
What a night of fever and torment he passed!
The conflicting emotions that agitated him ban-
ished sleep. The delicate web he had filched
lay under his burning cheek and throbbing tem-
pies ; its subtle perfume intoxicated him, evoking
ecstatic glamour and vivid visions of Edna's face
radiant with joy and beauty. Then jealousy
swept the chords of his sensitive nature, as he
recalled the smiles bestowed on his presumed
rival, and bitter curses on his defective foot fol-
lowed, until, in the struggle between tumultuous
passion and reason, his better sense triumphed,
and tears bedewed his eyes-tears of vexation
that he should be so childish, so vain, and envious.

I

MARK GILDERSLEEVE.

15 T

As he lay thus, his door was softly opened, and
he heard the voice of his sister-in-law inquiring
if he were indisposed?
"No, no, Sister Margaret, thank you. Please
don't disturb yourself."
"I heard a noise, and feared you might be
taken ill."
"No, thank you.    Please leave me."   His
heart was stilled at this fresh evidence of tender
solicitude on the part of one, who had been to
him all that a mother could be. He contrasted
her calm, cheerful ways and unselfishness with
his egotism and discontent. Repentant, he
prayed to be forgiven, and soon after fell asleep.

t1:                  Y    k''    -                                                          V
; _                                '                                                           _      i

5
tit
1111  {p1{
f(k.               ,
a tT
5        zf
y' y     t
its
5  f{
:,i" ,x;
9 i Y    f -
4         A
yyy$          ,s   ' },,    i
ry-            f r i?                    ,
o-             is
fT    -
t Y, tf
ItA
tT   f
f y^7          t          _
f 5t
4iy   ,} 1               9
3f
'flA ,RAT  V"
ar
I'M
4 jl!  E:                 x
a$ 5 f
}   V     4
r ti     7                   
t i Y " i

I


158

MARK G1LDERSLEEV ®~

x,
THE next morning his jaded face told plainly of
the mental struggle he had undergone. He took
up Edna's handkerchief, pressed it to his lips rever-
entially, as if it had been a shred from the robe of
a saint, and then reflected how he should return it,
to its owner without exciting suspicion or betray-
ing his impertinent freak. " She's a seraph and'
I'm an idiot! "was his pithy conclusion, "An egre-
gious and presumptuous idiot ! If she knew all,
what a laughing-stock Ishould be.to her! I will
not think of her again, but as one to worship.
What am I, or what have I done to merit any
favor from her? What could she ever possibly
see in meT I must and shall try to forget her.
No-I would be very ungrateful to do that. But
I must only esteem, respect, and worship her at a
distance; and if she prefers that tall, girlish,
dancing-Jack, why-no, I have no right to think
that. Well, I must return the handkerchief in
some way, and then we shall be henceforth as

MARK GILDEESLEEVE.

159

strangers-not exactly strangers-but I will only
think of her as an acquaintance."
He held to this resolution for at least a week,
rigidly schooling his -heart to submission; but
alas, this resolve met the fate of its kind, for on
the eighth day he accidentally saw the disturber
of his peace, and away to the four winds of
heaven went all humility and self-abnegation.
And he met her of all places-in a workshop.
Edna happened to be passing the Archimedes
Works on her return from the stationer's, when
the proprietor, who was looking out of the win-
dow of his counting-room, caught a glimpse of
her, and going out accosted the young lady, much
to her surprise, with a request (to walk into his
office a moment as he wanted to consult her.
She good-naturedly complied, and went into the
room, where the old book-keeper bustled about
to dust a chair for her, and the junior clerks
were rather distracted from their labors by the
apparition of such a visitor.
" What I wanted was to ask your opinion of a
new cart I've been getting, Miss Heath," said
George Gildersleeve.
" A cart, Mr. Qildersleeve?" repeated Edna.

F4t )«I
t?  F
9     t
F Yt
t « r
f     u
Sh _
4-  y1  ) M
S S l q
} Jr
J h'  _ i3
rS
if
f,
_     I
f.
a
i     ,
r}; "T
kkk({ . L
+j3   1
. s^a
I t ;
t5}  ?
!k   E
44   ( t
f±i   j
r!F ,
1r t,1
)t   e
Y
f  L   t
F    5


MARK GILDERSLEEVE.

160

MAEK GILDERSLEEVE.

Yes, a cart de visit."
" Oh, a photograph," said Edna.
"Yes. Mrs. Gildersleeve's sister, Mrs. Rob.
erts, who lives in Trenton, hasn't got one of mine,
and I promised to send her one; so I've been'
getting some struck off. Now here are the
proofs of three different kinds. Snopple got 'em
up; and as you're a young lady of taste, the
thought struck me, as I saw you go by, that you'd
be a capital judge and I want your opinion as
to which is the best."
Edna, rather amused, scrutinized the pictures
that represented George looking like a comely
bulldog, and said that she thought they were all
fair likenesses.
"But which is the best? This one's a new
attitood for me. I never had one taken in that
way before. Suppose you were picking one out
for yourself, which would you choose?"
To please him, Edna gave the preference to one
over the others.
"Well-I don't know but you're right," said
George reflectively, as he admired the one se-
lected. "I'll have a lot of these struck off,
and when they're finished, I won't forget to

t "3t
"4rl
. k4
T
g  KY
ff
Yak
1gg ~ }
i
E
t
.r
i- =y
1
y   4

s
Y
}{
i      ^
4
'
,4
k
!   .
f
L
t
A
b
i
K
L
k
h.
Gr
I
9F
t

*

send you one, unless you prefer one of these full
faces."
Edna said no-that the first one mentioned
would do, and thanked him. Noticing the horse-
shoe over the fire-place, she inquired whether it
were hung there to keep off witches, or for good-
luck.
"Good-luck ?-no, not exactly, although I
shouldn't wonder if it had brought us good-luck.
As for the witches, you see yourself it don't keep
off the most dangerous kind-the young and
beautiful ones," replied George, with an attempt
to be gallant.
"Oh thank you, Mr. Gildersleeve; you're very
flattering indeed," replied Edna with a smile.
"I wouldn't take five hundred -dollars for that
horse-shoe, Miss Heath," resumed George proudly.
"Indeed," said Edna.
"No, nor a thousand. That there shoe that
you see there, came off Gineral George Washing-
ton's horse just afore he fought the great battle
of Trenton. My grandfather shod him anew
himself, and kept this old shoe. The forge was
right here, and that chimney-stack was part of it.
That's the story, Miss Heath; and at that time

161

I
s

jt
' t pt
s  1
s  f
1    {
;i
t i
E
{" ] SY
Yj  7,r
Y


MAR GILDERSLEEVE.

163

your great-grandfather, old Whitman Obershaw,
ran a saw-mill just along by the head of the
rapids, ten rods beyond the foot-bridge, and I've
heard my father say often enough that the old
man was a pretty hard case, and tight about half
the time."
Edna, though nettled and confused for a mo-
ment at these free reflections on her maternal
ancestor, could not refrain from smiling at
the unconcerned way in which they were im-i
pai-ted. -
'" To think how you've grown lately, Miss
Heath," continued the blunt iron-master; "why,
it seems to me but last week that you and Ada
Mumbie and Judge Hull's granddaughter, were
little bits of things, stopping, as you came from
school with your arms full of books, to peep in
at the foundry, half-scared, with youreyes as big
as saucers. Well, time passes, and things change,
and the Works are different now from what they
was then. We've enlarged them considerable.
Have you been through them lately? No-well,
would you like to go ? Without bragging a great
deal, I don't think we can be beat much in our,
line in the world." George's world, by the bye,

was bounded by New York and Trenton, and
consisted chiefly of Belton.
Edna said she had been in Mr. Mumbie's paper-
mill, and had been much interested, and thought
she would like to see the Works, if convenient.
The establishment was a model one of its kind.
In extent and completeness it had no superior,if
a rival, in the country, and the owner took a jus-
tifible pride in showing it. It covered several
acres, and the buildings were fine ones of brick,
with slate roofs, and some pretensions to architect-
ural beauty. Gildersleeve led Edna first to a
detached room well lighted, neat, and quiet as a
boudoir, with a vine trailing over the glass roof.
This was the engine-room, where tireless monsters
of polished steel and brass, with gigantic fly-
wheels and darting pistons, worked noiselessly
and exactly as a chronometer, and enabled the
proprietor to be consistently independent of the
water-power if he chose.
Then they went to the foundry-a fearful
place, where begrimed men, hideous in the glare
of furnace flames, ran dragging pots of molten
iron like Cyclops, while the ground trembled
beneath the titanic blows of trip-hammers; next

a

i v
J
Z
t    ii
1
:
F1t:
y.  r  %
Yp  i '
'M i"  'A
f CF
Lr«
ff':i
; 's
r'   ,
-
s
h
F
!
t  (
t'
t
S+

1 GILDEESLEEVE0

162


164        MARK GILDERsLEEVE.

165

to the boiler-shop, where Edna was almost deaf-
ened; and to the machine-shop, a long room
filled with whirling shafts, gearing, and lathes in-
numerable, where she was greatly amazed at the
wonderful planes that sliced off glossy ribbons of
steel, and the powerful shears and punches that
cut the tough metal like pasteboard. Edna was
much impressed by what she saw. She was
struck with the many evidences around her of
human skill and power. The admirable adapta-
tion and complete control of superhuman forces
seemed to" her sublime, and she wondered that
the presiding genius of such a marvellous palace
of artcould be the ordinary mortal beside her.
Had Edna been an older judge of human nature,
she would have discovered that George Gilder-
sleeve was anything but an ordinary man. True,
he was uneducated, rough, overweeningly vain, '
without tact; his fibre coarse and vigorous as a
buffalo's, but his tenacity of will, love of order,
vigilance, and business shrewdness were remark-
able, and capable of conquering success in almost
any department of life. His vigilance and love
of order had not escaped Edna's notice, for as
they went along, she remarked that his searching

glances were directed everywhere, and she was
amused to see him pick up a nail from the floor,
and at another time reprimand an apprentice se-
verely because a small bit of cotton waste had
been left on the bright oil-cloth of the engine-
room.
"Who suggested the name of your Works,
Mr. Gildersleeve?" said Edna.
"Oh! that was Mark's notion. When we rebuilt
them, I wanted to name them the George Wash-
ington Works, but I concluded that that would
be too personal, so I let Mark have his own way,
and he named them after Archy Medes. This
Archy Medes was an engineer of ancient times,
who discovered something in a bath-tub, I don't
exactly remember what, but Mark can tell you if
you want to know. There he is over there. See
him, Miss Heath?"
They were in the finishing-shop at the time,
and George pointed to the farther end, where
Mark was, but with his back towards them so
that Edna had not recognized the young man.
He was standing with his coat off and a plan in
his hand, giving directions to a group of work-
men.

MARK GILDE SLEEVE,

k    '
i
:
t
i
w
s

a


MARK GTLDERSLEEVE.        167

166        MARK GILDERSLEEVE.

"He's setting up an improved lathe for driv-
ing wheels-a new idea of his own," explained
George.
Edna stood watching Mark. He was very
intently occupied moving hither and thither,
now stooping and scrutinizing, then, with rolled-
up sleeves, dexterously wielding hammer and
chisel. His dark, delicate features reflected the
keen concentrated play of the faculties, and re-
vealed an expression of intellectual beauty that
Edna had not before noticed. She thought she,
had never seen so handsome a young man.
Mark unconsciously had made a more favorable
impression in his homely guise than he ever
could have. done in a ball-room. At length he
perceived her, and could not repress a look of
confusion. Giving a few orders to theworkmen,
he drew on his coat and came forward to meet
Edna with an embarrassed air.
"An unexpected pleasure, Miss. Heath," he.
said, with a feeble attempt to be distant in ac-
cordance with the noble resolves he had recorded.
"The pleasure is with me, nI'n certain, for I've
been very much delighted and instructed. I
know all about locomotives, and steam, and boil-

e
t
-,
y
s
t
j
t
fi
S
f+
_;
°
{
4
r
3
1
S

ers, and I am indebted for it all to your brother,
who was kind enough to invite me to see the
Works, and explain everything. But I am very
much afraid that I have interrupted you."
"A very pleasant interruption; for it's so sel-
dom we are favored with the presence of ladies
here, that we appreciate their visits correspond-
ingly," replied Mark gallantly. Her pleasant,
winning way had disarmed him completely, and
he was at her mercy at once. Edna then bid the
brothers good-by, remarking that she had tarried
too long and must return home.
Of course Mark begged to be permitted to es-
cort her, as evening was approaching, to which re-
quest she graciously assented. The most attrac-
tive trait, perhaps, in our heroine's character was
her frankness of speech and manner proceeding
from a nature singularly free from affectation.
We say singularly, as it is well known that the
best of our young ladies are not entirely exempt
from little artificial airs and graces especially, if
like the subject of these remarks, they occupy a
position in society somewhat analogous to that of
a duke's daughter among gentry. This artless-
ness was the more remarkable in the child of a


MARK GILDERSL E19

family noted for its intense pride and pretensions.
Edna was the exception; simple in her tastes,
and ignoring the deference conceded to wealth to
an extent that would have amazed her father,
could he have spared enough attention from state
affairs to study his daughter's character. Natu-
rally, when a young lady of position remains un-
impressed by people's purses, and is as courteous
to the poor as to the rich, she cannot fail to be-
come a favorite with all; and it is no wonder that
the master of the Archimedes Works remarked to
Gregg, the old book-keeper, after she was gone,
that if he were a young man seeking a wife, she'd
be just the girl he'd pick out, and that Gregg said
she would be his choice too ; nor that Knatch-
bull, the foreman, concurred, and added, that she
was a "natty lass," to which George said, " That's
so, and thorough-bred," and told Gregg to make a
minute to remind him to send one of his "carts,"
a three-quarter face, to the young lady, as he had
promised, and wouldn't disappoint her for the
world.
Meanwhile Mark and Edna were walking on
in silence towards the street that led to the latter's
home; Mark, in his elation, scarcely knowing

168

- GMDE  LE1V 0

rwY; Y!tc  «;,      ,"-

I

:  s
F
S
i;
f
.l'
s''
j
1
t
'F
a
; ;,
i'
:
y,.
r,,
r'
i
7
e%
c
T
1
!
f

169

how to broach the conversation. Finally he
recollected that it would be in order to thank
Edna for the invitation she had sent him, and he
did so, expressing his great regret at not having
been able to avail himself of it, and his apprecia-
tion of the intended compliment.
" I think you would have enjoyed yourself,"
said Edna, "for I believe they all did. There
were quite a number of charming young ladies
present. Some of them, I think, you would have
been pleased to meet."
"Name them, if you please?"
"Well--Miss Carver, from Boston, for one ;
pretty, accomplished-"
"And wealthy ? "
" Pray, why do you ask such a question ?"
"Is not that the supreme attraction ? "
"What a sentiment for a poet! Do you know,
Mr. Gildersleeve, that I never fail to read your
verses in the Sentinel?"
"Do you, really? You are a true friend, in-
deed, Miss Heath, to sacrifice yourself to that
extent. What an exertion it must be ! "
" Indeed, I think some of them very nice.
Mr. Abbott, who prides himself on his literary
8

F
eM


170

MARK GILDERsLEEVE.

R
4
3
E Ag #
3'r
.of
t. t{
1   :
TS
ky
r t.
yy
f

MARK GILDERSLEEVE.

171

taste, endeavored to be very witty criticising some
of your poetry, but Aunt Susan-that's Mrs.
Applegate-Mercedita, and I defended you with
our utmost ability, and we three decided that it
was very nice indeed," said Edna earnestly.
Mark thought that "very nice indeed " was not
exactly the verdict he craved, nor were Aunt
Susan and Mercedita critics whose judgment
would likely bias public opinion, and be consid-
ered final. Edna's good opinion was certainly
worth having, however; and as for the Rev. Mr.
Abbott's attempts at facetiousness, they were
undoubtedly prompted by jealousy, and to say the
least of it, were very unbecoming in one of his
profession, and a disgrace to the cloth.
" Mr. Abbott, though, is a very fine reader,"
continued Edna, "but I must say I have not a
very great opinion of his taste. Would u be-
lieve it, he is forever reciting 'Airy, fairy IDian,'
and says it's the finest thing Tennyson ever
wrote? Now I think it's very flat, don't you?"
Mark agreed with her, and said it was very flat,
very flat indeed. She certainly has taste, thought
he, great critical acumen, but I wish she wouldn't
call my verses nice.

tI

"You must know," said Edna, who talked on
unreservedly, "I'm a very romantic girl in spite
of my matter-of-fact way, and read every bit 'of
poetry I come across. In saying that I don't
mean to disparage your productions, for as I said,
I think some of them real nice and pretty. It
may be that my opinion is not worth much, but
one piece I read lately struck me as being full of
beautiful ideas and similes. I mean those lines
addressed to 'Eunomia,' the 'violet-engarlandid'
person in 'purple cincture,' who, 'enthroned in
the propylon of the temple of Fate, sweeps the
lyre with skilful plectrum.' I believe that's the
image, is it not ? "
"I am afraid you are disposed to amuse your-
self by ridiculing my poor efforts," said Mark, puz-
zled to know whether she were in earnest or not.
"Oh dear me, no. I haven't wit enough to be
ironical, and am therefore always compelled to
be downright and blunt. Do you know, too, that
my ignorance is such that I had to look in the
dictionary to find out what plectrum and propylon
meant. Do, please, the next time you use such
hard words, add explanatory notes at the foot,
and oblige all such unlearned people as I."


172

MARK GILDERSLEEVE*

She said this with a bantering smile that again
perplexed Mark and set him reflecting. Now
the shortest way to the Cliff was to turn off at
Mill Street, which led to the foot-bridge over the
falls; but when they came to the corner of that
street, instead of turning off Edna kept on, taking
the longer way home, and thus prolonging the
walk, from which circumstance Mark augured
favorably. At least, thought he, she is not tired
of iy company as yet. Their promenade took
them across the public square, a pretentious little
triangle of grass-plats inclosed by posts and
chains. At one end of this park fronted a fine
large old mansion, whose low eaves, broad heavily-
panelled door, and ponderous brass knocker de-
noted work of the last century. It was the
homestead of the Hull family, and on the door-
jambs were still visible hacks made by the sabres
of Knyphausen's Hessians. Mark and his com-
panion had just passed the house when the old
Judge came out on the porch to look at the ther-
mometer hanging by the side of his door. How
could he fail to notice the youthful couple? Old
as he was, and long past the age of frivolity, they
interested him, and he stood contemplating the

MARK GILDERSLEEVE.

173

pair until they were out of his sight. , As he
turned to renter the house he gave a sigh of re-
gret. How barren seemed all his fame and hon-
ors ! He would have bartered them all for the
return of one hour of the sweet hallucinations of
youth so irrevocably passed away. Meanwhile
our young people continued their discussion on
poetry in general, and Mark's productions in par-
ticular, until the young man, assuming a serious
expression, said, "You were speaking about the
lines to Eunomia. As regards the spirit or in-
tention in which they are composed, I must cer-
tainly be credited at least with sincerity. Every
line, every thought is an exponent of the author's
feelings. They may be awkward, inelegant, or
halting, but the words are nevertheless the earnest
utterances of the heart."
All this was'said fervently, and Edna replied:
" I haven't any doubt of it at all. You poets all
have some ideal lady-love, I believe, gifted with
every possible quality ; some ethereal paragon
whom you never permit to touch the earth; con-
sequently, I presume you are very much dissatis-
fied with young ladies as you find them."
"Permit one to say you are much mistaken.

61~


E           1
L
{_
3
t  "
.  7n.

174'

MARK GILDERSLEEVE.

My verses were addressed to no imaginary being.
Eunomia lives and breathes."
"Indeed! why, now that you have so excited
my curiosity, I am afraid I shall not rest satisfied
until I learn who this interesting damsel is-this
purple-cinctured Eunomia,"
"I can gratify you in that respect very readily,
if you wish it."
"Well-but--I wouldn't for the world be indis.
creet. If it's perfectly permissible. Otherwise,
let me remain in ignorance, please." She said
this hesitatingly, as if perhaps she had gone
too far ; or was it Mark's admiring gaze that
embarrassed her? For the young man seemed
to be oblivious of all but the being beside
him, and who could blame him? for Edna,
animated by the walk and conversation, looked
more beautiful than ever. She wore a round
hat wreathed about with a blue veil which
contrasted charmingly with her fair complexion,
and the satin sheen of her lustrous blonde hair.
Mark watched the blithe face, and endeavored to
analyze, and impress its beauty indelibly on his
memory. What charmed him most was the vir-
ginal grace of lips and chin, the pure cheek, and

MARK GILDEEsLEEVE.

175

the exquisite contour of the slender white throat.
So- absorbed was he in his admiration, that the
promenade seemed to him incredibly short, in
spite of the circuit they had made, for the en-
trance to Mr. Heath's residence was now near at
hand. It was time to part. "I am hesitating,"
said he, "whether to reveal-if you will not
think me presumptuous-after all, no one is
better entitled to know the name of the one ad-
dressed as 'Eunomia,' than you."
"No one better entitled to know than I?" re-
peated Edna, as a sudden enlightenment suffused
her face with a blush.
"No one; for Eunomia is but another name
for Edna. Forgive me, if in seeking for inspira-
tion from your beauty and goodness, I have been
too bold in my admiration ; but Edna," he
added, taking her hand and gazing at her with
appealing ardor, "I have loved you so long and
earnestly!"
She- lowered her eyes at this declaration,.but
her hand lingered in his. There was nobody
near; he pressed her hand gently to his lips,
when she -quickly withdrew it, and with a bow,
disappeared through the gateway. Mark stood


MARK GILDERSLEEVE.

for a moment as if amazed at his audacity,
and then, joyful and happy, walked away as if
treading on air, bewitched by the delightful an-
ticipations of newly implanted hope. Sweet
anticipation! fHow full art thou of brilliant
illusions and blissful glamour! And yet, without
thee, what an insupportable burden would life
become! Precious Jack-o'-lantern, that transports
the lover, nerves the warrior, cheers the student,
and inspires poet and painter!

..o
"BET you hundred to eighty-hundred dollars
to eighty-eighty-old man's 'lected! "were Jack
Heath's exclamations, as he stood rather unstead-
ily in the bar-room of the Obershaw- House,
thumping his fist on the counter. It was the
night before election day, and of course the bar-
room of the Obershaw House, the headquarters
of Mr. Heath's party, was thronged with politi-
cians and loungers, drinking, smoking, and dis-
cussing the chances of the candidates for office;
for we should state that the Ion. Rufus Heath
had succeeded in his efforts to obtain the nomi-
nation for the governorship, as the numerous
posters on the dead walls of Belton, headed
" CONSERVATIVE UNION NoMINATIoNs," staringly
announced.
Jack Heath had been for a week on what he
called a "tare," and had but just "brought up"
at the hotel. He was still a little "sprung," as
the bar-tender qualified it, but had an eye to bus-
8*

r                            '

176

MARK GILDERSLE LD

177


178         MARK GILDERsLEEVE,.
iness nevertheless, as he seemed anxious to secure
beds on his father's election. ".A hundred to
eighty-bet any man hundred to eighty old man's
'lected. Come, I'll make it hundred to fifty-
fifty, who'll take that ? "
" I will-just for a flyer," responded a short
red-whiskered man, who kept a livery stable in
the town; "I'll take it."
"Put up the ducats, Hank-,put 'em up !
Here, Bangs, old .fel, hold stakes, will you?
All right-hundred to fifty more ! Who's next
man?"
"Here you are," said another individual.
"Going to vote for the old man too, but P11 take
your offer for the fun o' the thing."  .
Jack fumbled away at his pocket-book, draw-
ing out the bank-notes and laying them in Bangs
the landlord's hand with drunken solemnity and'
slowness. He found no lack of takers, and soon
stripped himself of money to back his father's
chances. Then a little contention arose about
the count, and Jack indulged in a good deal of
abuse and swearing. However, the party being
in good humor, coaxed him, and vowed he was
the best fellow alive; so Jack, mollified, ordered

MARK GILDERSLEVE          1

a basket of champagne to be opened, and "Here's
to our next Governor, Rufus Heath!" was
drunk with three times three and a "tiger."
Then Jack, a little more inebriated, withdrew to
play billiards, at which game he was an adept,
and in spite of his condition he made some excel-
lent caroms, better than many sober players could
achieve ; but he also missed some easy shots, and
his anger rising at that, he dashed his cue savage-
ly at the table, ripping up the green cloth so that
Bangs had it down on the bill ag inst him in no
time. Then Jack ordered mor; wine, telling
Bangs to charge it to the' old man's account for
"'lection spenshes," and again the company were
called upon to toast the future Governor of the
" Jersey Blues," which they did vociferously.
Now Jack, pulling out his watch, stared at it
stupidly for some time, until a dim notion coming
to him that he was too tipsy to discriminate be-
tween the hands, he requested somebody to tell
him the time. "Pas' twelve, eh? Time I was
home-mus' go home early-got work to do to-
morrow morning-old man's 'lection day."
"Better stay here to-night, Mr. Heath," said
the hotel-keeper, who was familiar with Jack's

t  frr 5.
i
N i
8 tY
'y'.y
r+  X
t .i
f  : r
"+_k
f   t
. i

r kY

179

,0

ZIP


MAI13 GILDERSLEEVE,

MAR1 ~D GiDSLV

habits. "We'lltake good care of you. I've got a
nice room all ready and comfortable for you, and
you'll be fresh and fine for to-morrow's work."
"All right, Tommy Bangs, old fel. Let's
have night-caps all round 'fore we turns in, eh.
Whiskey-skins, Bangsey. Stiff, and not too sweet.
Charge old man 'lection spenshes."
The whiskey-skins being disposed of,Mfir. Bangs
and his bar-tender led Jack tenderly up the
stairs, and put him away comfortably to bed.
About the time he awoke the next morning the
election was in full blast. The population were
entirely given over to the business, and Belton
was emblazoned with multi-colored placards, call-
ing upon the citizens to "awake," to "arouse,"
and above all to" rally."  Wagons decorated with
long muslin strips bearing the name of a promi-
nent candidate, and some watchword of uncertain
application, such as "No monopoly," "Working-
men's Rights," and the like, were driven about
gathering voters, who were stimulated to exercise
the right of suffrage in the right direction by the
stirring notes of a fish-horn; blown by an active
partisan alongside of the driver.
The polls were surrounded by a motley crowd

180

;
i
,
a.
6
i
i   c
-    ;
Y f
,S
f
% .
i
, r}
g, y ;
r y
te
yTr
-;, i
.
ti 1
,  '
, "
vt
k
y2
P-
'4.
r
f
{
r 3 .°_
: i+
d.
3
Y  i
nx
z,
3r
'v'9'
.r
:
Y,
1,
4r
C#
£'
pt
f
..
K
i'
l
F
'
F
i
h
j
f
.i
c
s
4
i      l"
V
";

of fellow-citizens, who beset the wayfarer with
importunities to vote for this or that candidate ;
and as each wagon drove up and deposited its
load of voters the new-comers were received with
hurrahs and friendly hustlings. The 'master of
the  rchiedesWors was conspicuous and ub-
quitous, shouldering his burly frame through the
thickest crowds, jeering his opponents, joking with
his friends, and airing his wallet on the slight-
est provocation. Jack Heath, owing to his ex-
ertions on the previous evening, did not make his
appearance on the scene of action until mid-day,
but his presence infused new vigor in the contest.
A crowd of henchmen were at his heels, and the
bar of the Obershaw House dispensed strong
waters and tobacco, galore and gratuitous, to all
the supporters of the "Heath ticket " who chose
to partake. And as many so chose, the bar-tender
and his assistants had their hands full, you may
depend, for the thirst of people who appease it at
another's expense is sufficient to appall the stout-
est stomach.
As the day waned, the fellow-citizens merry
with potations 'deep disported themselves with
antics gay. Individuals were bonneted ; ballots,

'Fy k i    ':'rfei.. ;," T",.T i;  :r,  :5.  t     .-                                                                                                                                                              w....rr.sw ..n'"...., ..,«r
F '              _              ',,,  q               ,ytaest, it3./a+w. i! '^xf°°                      cwt.-" w r.   ';"N°W"t
f         Y                                                 i

-:
r
:

44
yy.I
r

181

a
t
1
F
't
J
5 2
3
a
s
CE
!{r
i
l1
rr
Y+
f
c^
4


182         MARK GILDERsLEEVE.

183

those executors of the freeman's will, were scat-
tered to the winds; and the ticket-distributors who
were unlucky enough to be caught in their boxes
found themselves suddenly in a topsy-turvy posi-
tion, heels in the air, and kicking wildly to extri-
cate themselves, to the intense enjoyment of the
hilarious and playful electors. At sunset the
polls closed, and the citizens who had rallied so
nobly repaired to their homes, with the exception
of some zealous politicians who remained to learn
the result of the voting. The bar-rooms were
still tumultuous with the wrangling of excited
partisans, and Jack Heath lorded it at the
Obershaw House, but he soon succumbed
to the fatigues of the day, and was kindly
put to bed by considerate Mr. Bangs at an
early hour.
The Hon. Rufus Heath remained at home dur-
ing the eventful day. He had no doubt as to the
result of the election, and felt certain that he
would carry it. Candidates always feel so. The
amazing self-conceit that induces every ticket-
holder in a lottery to expect a prize would per-
mit no other supposition than one of success.

Still, being a cautious man, he was anxious to have
his belief corroborated. Meanwhile so confident
was he of the issue, that he employed himself in
preparing a draught of his inaugural address, and
revolving in his mind a proper disposition of his
affairs preparatory to a removal of his home to
the capital of the State. He anticipated, too, no
little gratification in teaching his opponent a les-
son, for he deemed it no less than a piece of im-
pertinence that an obscure village lawyer, who
had acquired some cheap fame by vulgar appeals
as a stump speaker, should presume to cross
swords with him in a contest for position. At
length night came, and towards ten o'clock a mes-
senger brought various returns that had been an-
nounced, almost all indicating majorities in his
favor. - He went to bed, but found it difficult to
court slumber with such a stake still weighing in
the balance. The next morning he became rather
uneasy as the minutes passed and no friend came
.to congratulate him on.the result. Mumble, he cer-
tainly expected would have been on hand betimes.
The newspaper, too, did not arrive at the usual
hour, delayed probably to give the latest results
of the canvassing. At length it came, and he saw

IK~ r

w .

MARK G hDB1 SLEEVE':

r.
:
;

;
F_
',Y
j Sri
}  "


184         sARK :GILDERsLEEVE.

185

at a glance from the returns of certain decisive
counties that he was defeated.
The editor endeavored to depreciate the impor-
tance of these indications by stating that the final
result was still in doubt; that later news might
alter the complexion of things, etc. But Mr. Heath
was not to be deluded by such assertions, and was
convinced that he and his party had lost. As
the first check in a career of uninterrupted pros-
perity, it proved a bitter disappointment; so bitter,
that he lost his temper-an unusual occurrence
for him-swore at James for some trivial offence,
snarled at Mrs. Applegate, and snubbed poor
Mumbie, who had come rather blunderingly
to sympathize with him. To one unaccustomed
to obstacles and reverses they come with double
severity, and Mr. heath took his defeat deeply to
heart. Friends, to be sure, proffered condolen-
ces, advising him to try again; that in the next
attempt he would certainly be successful, etc.,
etc.; but a sense of discouragement had taken
possession of him which no sympathy or counsel
could remove. Probably the bitterest pill to
swallow was the discovery that his own county
and town had given a large majority against him.

-a
I
Yr
4 w
!hw
ns Y
+e
i.
R
at
i
r
L'
4  
+ Y
1-
+i 5
«Y
r

He was much surprised at this, being utterly un-
conscious of his personal unpopularity. Small
comfort he got too from George Gildersleeve, who
never spared a beaten adversary, and griping
the patrician's hand when he met him a few days
after, bade him be of good cheer in such words
as these: " Sorry for you, Heath, but it couldn't
be helped. I could have told you how it would
be. Too much of the old Democratic leaven
about here. This county cooked your mutton, and
I carry it in my breeches pocket. Liked to have
helped you-you're an old friend; but you can't
expect us to desert our life-long principles, scratch
our ticket, and go for outsiders when the woolly-
heads are getting so rampant. There is no safety
in these times but sticking to the old ship. But
, I wouldn't be down in the mouth about it. If
you'll only come round to our side of the house,
S    I'll engage to send a good-looking man of about
your size to Trenton or Washington. You ought
to be there; you've got the brains, and have for-
gotten more than half those fellers ever knew;
but you ain't the right stripe, that's the trouble,
and you're on the wrong track."
Mr. Heath endeavored to take this advice good-

MARK GIILDERSLEEVE.


186          MA RK GILDERSLEEVE.                                                 MARK GILDERsLEEvE.
humoredly, and attempted a smile at the blunt
sallies; but the smile was a forced one, or
"yellow laugh," as the French express it.
XLI
IT was long past midnight, and betw
-small hours that usher in the light of a n
when the stillness of the mansion on the c
broken by a piercing shriek. It was an a
cry of distress that awoke the slumber(
froze the timid ones to their couches wi
Mr. Heath sprang from his bed, and ra
cipitately to his daughter-n-aw's apa
whence the cry proceeded. Poor Merced
him at the door in her night-dress, and in
to his inquiries pointed in speechless ho
the floor of her dressing-room, where l
and stark the body of her husband!
Jack Heath had come home the previous
for the first time since his fortnight's de
He was in a shocking condition, with
clothes, and a bad bruise over one eye, res
doubtless, from a fall. His wife, incensed
conduct, refused to speak or notice him
Jack, still tipsily stupid, threw himself

187
een the
ew day,
luff was
palling
ers and
th fear.
tn pre-
rtment,
ita met
answer
rror at
ay stiff
s night
bauch.
filthy
ulting,
Vat his
; and
on a


188         MAR GILDERSLEEVE.

lounge in the dressing-room to sleep. During
the night he awoke ; tormented by the "horrors,"
and thirsting for dome stimulating liquid, he
seized a crystal flask of cologne that lay on the
toilet-table, and drank it to appease the infernal
craving that possessed him. The congested con-
dition of his brain, super-excited by this fiery
draught, induced apoplexy, and the stroke was
fatal. His wife, asleep in the adjoining room,
awoke soon after, and not hearing his usual
heavy breathing, was much surprised. She ima-
gined he must have left the room, and after
waiting awhile, arose from her bed, went into
the dressing-room where there was a dim light
burning, and found that he had fallen from the
lounge and lay on the floor.  She shook him
without effect ; raised his arm-it fell rigidly.
She tried to arouse him, called him loudly, but
the dull ear heard not, for the sleep that bound.
him knew no waking; and then, as the truth
flashed on her, with a shriek she summoned the
household. They led her away, agitated, proba-
bly, more by terror than grief, but Mr. Heath
remained gazing at the corpse of his only son.
What a spectacle to meet a father's eye was this

inert bulk, repulsive with the stigmas of dissipa-
tion fresh upon it ! In the middle ages the heir
of the house fell in battle, killed perhaps by the
shot of an arquebuse or the blow of a partisan;
or he met his death in some midnight encounter,
and was brought home with a broken rapier and
doublet dripping with blood-there is romance
in that. But now he falls a victim to the bottle,
and furnishes but a vulgar theme. Nevertheless
the drama is none the less real. Mr. Heath's
contemplation was sad, but full of worldly reason-
ing. The curse of unearned wealth, he mused,
has fallen on my son. Had he been the child of
a bricklayer or born to labor, he would have
been alive now ; or had not the blood of the
Obershaws with its coarse appetites, predom-
inated, he might have been an honor tome.
Unmoved remained Mr. Heath as he philosophized
thus, until the sight of his daughter's emotion, as
she covered her dead brother's face with tears
and kisses, stirred the parent within him, and his
eyes clouded and cold features relaxed.

..

*

*

*
*
*

*

*
*

MARK GiznERSr.EEVE.     189

'y
,.

Fl, I
u
.a;
z'
f4
v+Y
t _  5


190          MARK GILDERSLEEVE,                                                MARK GILDERsL
Another funeral, another solemn procession to
the tolling of the bell of St. Jude's, and the body
of John Peter Heath was laid beside that of his
grandsire in the family vault, in the yard of thprII
little church.
81x months passed away.
The young widow had left
never possessed any charms
maternal relatives in the island
doubtless a relief, as she had
happiness during her wedded
ure increased the sense of lone
her former home, for it now
in an atmosphere of gloom.
in all the observances of n
trance gates to his grounds, w
always kept hospitably wide
constantly closed, and the do
As for Mr. Heath, he had la
state of taciturnity, and sough
evident that he no longer poss
and elastic spirit of his you
disappointment would have s
creased exertion, but now ti
'4      dealt at him by destiny and t

EEVEO          191
Belton, which had
for her, to visit her
Ld of Cuba. It was
I never known any
life. Her depart-
liness that pervaded
seemed enveloped
Mr. Heath was rigid
mourning. The en-
rhich were formerly
open, were now as
nestics wore black.
psed into a singular
t seclusion. It was
essed the energetic
anger days.   Then
purred him to in-
Le repeated blows
;he approach of old

b     -                                      I"


S  Y  i       - 5;rit  I.
ya
YT   "
r
a
-         l
7                    y
i
t                     A
(                                         t
H

MARKt GILD]ERSL~i.EV]E.

.   Li

MARK GILDS1TLEEV .

193

age, though hardly perceptible in his still erect
and vigorous frame, were telling on the springs
of action.
There are periods in a man's existence when he
pauses to review his life. It is true such periods
rarely occur to the slaves of vice, or to those un-
der the dominion of a ruling passion, and perhaps
never to the robust individual of limited ideas to
whom the mere act of existing is a pleasure; but
they come repeatedly to the free intellect, perhaps
at the very instant of realization of some long
toiled-for or expected success, or at the moment
of disappointment, to ask it what it is living for,
and whither it tends? Such questions never en-
ter the head of men like old John Peter Ober-
shaw, nor disturb the tough self-satisfaction of
those like George Gildersleeve; but the texture of
Mr. Heath's mind, when at rest, was impression-
able, and its subtle energy liable to relax and
weaken. We have related how he succumbed to
despondency on his succession to the immense
wealth of his father-in-law, and although this
feeling was soon shaken off and banished in the
pursuit of ambitious projects, it now returned as
the blight on his ambition, and death of his only

192

son pressed the iron through a heart enamelled
by worldliness. As time wore on, his sorrow, in-
stead of diminishing, seemed to increase, and an
expression of deep chagrin settled permanently
on his countenance. He apparently lost a1l in-
terest in his great work, the "Federal Code," and
the secretary who had assisted him in its prepara-
tion was dismissed.  He seldom left the house
now, spending his time chiefly in the library en-
gaged in meditation, or in the occasional perusal
of a chapter of Jeremy Taylor or some other
standard theological work. He even seemed to
shun his family, and ceased to manifest interest
in his daughter. Edna, quick to discern this
change in her father's habits, attributed it solely
to the death of her brother, and dreading the ef-
fects of prolonged grief, strove with the assistance
of her aunt to divert his mind ; but to little pur-
pose. Each time that they tried to interest him
in household matters, or to enliven him, they met
with a rebuff. Even Mr. Abbott, who endeavored
to bring balm and consolation, found his counsel
unacceptable, and the worthy young minister did
not repeat the attempt. In short, the man of
even temper, the polished gentleman, wvas becon-
9

4


a

,
s
t-


f
u
1 7
F   "
rY
t
AY
1
A!
Y
Ja
T Z
Y
J    l;
t
Y
d   }
i
RL
f        r
i
_ d
it
f
tip
e   1;
yL

ing irascible, and it was a relief to the family to
learn one morning that Mr. Heath, to improve his
health and divert his mind, or for some other un-
explained reason, had determined to set off on a
journey.
Edna, too, had certain perturbations of mind
and heart to contend with-ideas and reflections
that would obtrude upon her, and that, although
temporarily banished during the period of mourn-
ing, reappeared with greater frequency when her
sorrow became assuaged. These thoughts dated
from the time of her meeting with Mark Gilder-
$1eeve, when he avowed she inspired his poetic
flights. In her simple estimation, his verses were
productions of merit and beauty; and there was
something extremely pleasing in the thought of
having long been the object of the hidden admi-
ration and laudation of a young man gifted with
such talent, and splendid eyes. Fred Spooner, to
be sure, was taller and had red cheeks, but then
Fred's knowledge, although a Harvard under-
graduate, did not seem to transcend dogs. He
could entertain her only with the exploits of his
bull-terrier Spot among the rats, or discuss the

.d4 i

beauties of his diminutive black-and-tan Spark;
while Mark knew ever so many things, could
quote Tennyson or Browning as readily as Mr.
Abbott, could work a steam-engine, and sang
superbly; while all Fred Spooner could do in that
way was to roar, sadly out of tune, the touching
lay of "The Lone Fish-ball," or "Shool."  Per-
haps Mark might become, in time, as celebrated
as Dante or Petrarch, and she would be immor-
talized like Beatrice and Laura. Edna could not
help dwelling on the flattering idea, until it took
root in her gentle heart. In short, Miss Heath
was fast drifting into love, and not a little sur-
prised to find how constantly her thoughts would
revert to the young engineer, in spite of "her ex-
ertions to employ them otherwise. Perhaps,
these exertions were not very strenuous, for the
girl was of 'an unsophisticated nature, and not
disposed to be rebellious; hence she yielded to her
inclinations more readily than the circumspect
daughter of a rigid precept-inculcating mamma.
At this time the gigantic conspiracy of the
Secessionists culminated, and the demon of Civil
War, that Mr. Heath and his conservative coadju-

t

MARK GILDERSLEEVE.

194

195

I  MDERSL EE   a


f  1
,a
jj

tors had vainly attempted to exorcise, bristled his
angry, crest. One morning the portentous news
came that the first hostile shot had been fired by
the South. Instantly, the faithful in all parts of
the North sprang to arms to avenge the insult
offered to the glorious old standard of the nation.
Peaceful Belton partook of the patriotic ardor,
and manifested its loyalty by a profuse display
of bunting. Party differences were forgotten,
and Republicans and Democrats, Free-soilers and
Conservatives, native and foreign-born citizens, all
joined in protesting their devotion to the Union,
and their determination to defend it to the last.
George Gildersleeve, who, moved by his antipa-
thy to the abolitionists, had been inclined to ex-
cuse the threats of the Southerners, now turned
against them, and came out wonderfully strong
for the Union, accompanying his loyal protes-
tations with frequent allusions to the immortal
Washington, and the patriotic services of his
grandsire in the horse-shoeing line; in testi-
mony whereof the Archimedes Works flaunted
a starry banner of magnificent' dimensions. A
mass-meeting of the citizens to take measures to-
wards.the suppression of the rebellion was at. once

L
L

held in the public square. This square was the
pnyx or forum of the Beltonians. In the centre
a Phrygian cap was borne skyward by a tall
liberty-pole, whose base was defended by a rusty
old carronade, which was popularly supposed to
have done wonders in freedom's cause during the
trying days of Seventy-six, and was venerated
accordingly ; the probability being that it had
never inflicted other damage than scorching
some of the amateur artillerists, who every Fourth
of July put the superannuated piece to use in
firing salutes. At the meeting, though, it formed
an appropriate buttress to the temporary stand
erected for the orators, and gave a stern dignity
to the occasion. In the absence of Judge Hull
and Mr. Heath, who were both away from home,
George Gildersleeve was called upon to preside;
but fluent as honest George was in a caucus or
sidewalk harangue, he lost his tongue on the
rostrum, where he prefigured too closely his
boasted porcine model of independence, and
hence was forced to decline the proffered honor.
Mr. Mumble was then pitched upon as a proper
figure-head, but he also declined, having the fear
of Mrs. Mumbie, whose sympathies were with

MA RK GILDERSLEEVE.

197

196

MARK GILDERSLEEVE*


MARK GILDERsLEEVE.      199

198

MARK GILDERSLEEVE.

the South, before his eyes. At length a chair-
man was found in Mr. Poplin, the owner of the
silk-mill, and the meeting proceeded with spirit.
Stirring addresses were made-a deal of enthu-
siasm evoked, and a string of resolutions passed
unanimously. The practical result was the deci-
sion to organize without delay a "Home Guard,"
and George was appointed captain of the first
company. Vague apprehensions were afloat
among the staid denizens that Beauregard and
the South Carolinians might invade Belton, and
the patersfamilias of the town had made up their
minds not to be caught unprepared, but to be
ready to strike doughtily for their altars and fire-
sides at a moment's notice. So in less than
twenty-four hours, fifty-three good and true men
were enrolled in this formidable legion, and com-
mittees appointed to procure arms and uniforms.
Considerable agitation was manifested over the
selection of the latter. By virtue of his calling,
Mr. Muldoon, a tailor, was chairman of the com-
mittee on uniforms, and moved probably by per-
sonal predilections, reported on." grane" as the
most appropriate color ; from which Snopple,
the minority, dissented, and recommended, with

an eye to the picturesque, the old Continental
blue and buff, with a cavalier "hat.  But this
recommendation was not acted upon, the sug-
gested costume being voted unsuitable for "hard
service," and as the Guards intended adopt-
ing the rifle as their weapon, Mr. Muldoon's
"grane " carried the day, with red seams and yel-
low facings, however, in deference to the esthetic
feelings of the wily Snopple, who foresaw an in-
crease of patronage growing out of this investiture.
Among the junior members of the community,
the warlike spirit rose equally high, but took a
different direction. Of them all, none was more
deeply stirred by the electric current of patriot-
ism than Mark. From the outbreak of the con-
flict, his blood tingled to join in the fray. He
flung aside all other occupations, and threw his
whole soul into the popular cause. Let us con-
fess, though, that he was not purely unselfish in
his eagerness, for he foresaw a new avenue to
fame, and one where the goal was more accessi-
ble to a determined mind than in the path he
was pursuing. As a poet, mediocrity at the ut-
I most was all, he was forced to admit, that he
could ever hope for. But in war, what was there

"

-
,r


200

MARK OILDER5sLEVE.

beyond the reach of a stout heart and true blade?
He felt brave enough to cast his life in the scale
if need be, and stake it for renown. Glory is a
tempting bait for hot-heads and enthusiastic nat-
ures, and its sway over Mark was irresistible.
Beyond glory, too, there was a sweeter, dearer re-
ward that he might win. A guerdon fit to nerve
even a craven to prowess.
"By cock and pie and mousefoot ! my lad,
but this is serious," quoth Dr. Wattletop, when
Mark imparted his intention of turning soldier.
"Fired by bellicose ardor, we burn to seize the
anlace and. cry havoc, eh ? Nonsense," was .the
commentary that followed. "Believe me, my
boy, stick to your innocent amusements. Per-
mute the syllables of our noble tongue into new
and strange rhythmical combinations as much as
you please, but seek not the bubble reputation
by checking musket-balls in their mad career.
Stick to the shop, Mark, to itrochoidal paths and
spheric sectors. 'Honor, indeed, who hath it?
He that died o' Wednesday.' Stick to the shop,
I tell you. You're a promising engineer, and
there's glory enough to be acquired as such, and
better still, money."

1LRKGILDERSLEEV1A

201

"Very true, doctor," answered Mark with a
smile. "That is an inducement.   You know
how devoted I am to its acquisition."
"More's the pity, my lad, more's the pity. The
sceptre that rules the world in this century is a
golden one. However, I was young myself once
-long, long ago, I'm sorry to say-and can ap-
preciate your sublime disdain of opulence. But
what has started you o  on this new path, may I
ask ?"
"The duty I owe my country-patriotism," ex-
claimed Mark rather proudly.
" Patriotism-umph !  The last refuge of a
scoundrel, as Dr. Johnson said. Have you no
worthier motive? Forgive me, my boy, I don't
intend any personal application-it's a quotation
that occurred to me. But patriotism has an ex-
ceedingly bad reputation, permit me to say, and is
responsible for more crimes than liberty and re-
ligion combined. Dulce et decorum est, and so
forth, 'Fidelity to one's country right or wrong,'
may be fine riiiging mottoes; but after all, the in-
centive is vain and selfish. Patriotism is the pa-
rent of national prejudice, and prejudices of all
kinds are the greatest foes to justice. In the year
9*

..,


202         MARK GILDERSLEEVE,

A.D. 18,000, when 'man to man the wal o'er
shall brithers be for a' that,' patriotism will be
looked upon as a species of fetichism.' Patriotism!I
I dislike it almost as much as I do generosity.
Still,,if you must kill, kill for some other cause.
Here you Yankees are breathing fire and slaugh-
ter because a portion of four countrymen choose
to follow the example of their forefathers. They
are rebels and traitors and what not, because they
follow in the footsteps of the men of '76, as you
call them. The great question which underlies
it all is apparently set aside and overlooked. The
rallying cry is not the extinction of slavery; not
freedom to fellow-beings from an undeserved ser-
vitude; not justice; but the Union--whatever that
may be-and patriotism forsooth ! the slogan that
has marshalled unnumbered hosts to the perpe-
tration of so many wrongs, and which is only, if
I may so define it, disguised selfishness, as loyalty
is after all but refined snobbishness."
Now the doctor, although hating slavery, had a
lurking sympathy for the South. To his mind,
they were abstractly in the right; it was sheer
inconsistency for a union of states the outgrowth
of secession to prevent those among themselves

who desired it from taking a similar action.
iark, it is rue, while he had lately become to a
certain exte t a proselyte to the teachings of the
abolitionists, and admitted the wrong of slavery,
and the necessity of wiping out that blot from the
national escutcheon, made it subordinate to his
great desire to preserve the Union and save from
destruction "the greatest and freest country on
earth, to which he had the honor to belong."
" Is it the greatest and freest because you be-
long to it?" inquired the doctor with a sly smile.
"I notice that our great men are the greater for
being our countrymen, and that our country is
also the greater because it is our country. We
love the person or thing that sheds glory or honor
in any way upon us, more because it does so, than
because it is glorious or honorable in itself. For
instance the walls of Shakespeare's home are writ-
ten over with the names of visitors. Now, why is
this? What leads Snooks and Noakes to scrib-
ble their names on the door-jambs of the shrine
at Stratford-upon-Avon? Is it to honor Shake-
speare or themselves ? Perhaps they cannot quote
two lines of his works, perhaps have never even
read them. It arises purely from that ignoble
a

X03


204          MARIK GILDERSLEEVE-

MARK GELDERSLEEVE.         205

desire to gratify in some way the measureless
vanity of man. Snooks and Noakes care noth-
ing for Shakespeare, but the world recognizes him
as a celebrity, and they by connecting themselves,
in however remote a degree, with celebrity, fancy
they thereby acquire an atom of it."
"I don't see how any of this applies to me,"
said Mark, seemingly a little hurt at the doctor's
remarks. "I'm sure I am not actuated by any
such small and contemptible motives.  Don't
misunderstand me," he continued with rising
enthusiasm; "I intend devoting myself to the
cause of the Union, solely because I believe
it to be the right one, and to carry justice
with it."
" Ah ! well-I like that way of putting it bet-
ter," said the doctor. "You know, Mark, how I
have always endeavored to imbue you with the
belief, that to be just is the only rule of life, and
that I should be sorry to see you swerve from
that in any way."
"But I do believe that the cause of the Union
is the just one, and that of the Secessionists the
unjust one. I also believe that ours involves the
cause of freedom throughout the universe. Our

country, doctor, is the beacon of light and hope
to the oppressed of all nations."
"So I've heard," said the doctor dryly, "and
that millions yet unborn-and so forth. Well-
well, my zealous young friend, bent on it, I see-
G od be with you. I hope it will all turn out
right. But Mark, how-how are you going?
Will not your-your--" He hesitated, fearing he
had trenched on delicate ground, for he reflected
that the young manl's lameness might interfere
with his project.
"Of course," said Mark, guessing the remain-
der of the question, "I prefer joining the cavalry."
"Well, a wilful lad must have his way, I pre-
sume, as well as a wilful woman. So boot and
saddle, my boy, and may Southern steel and lead
spare you to return to us, is the earnest wish of
your old friend, Basil Wattletop. But whom
shall I have to play chess with ? Have you
thought of that?"
" Ah! doctor, it's a grander game I shall en-
gage in this time, but only as a pawn."
" Why a pawn?"
" Perhaps I shouldn't say that, for I'm striving
for something better. You know I'm not alto-


206

MARK GILDERSLEEVE.

gether astray on horseback, and can ride, I
believe, better than I can walk, which perhaps
is not saying much; and old Copp, our night-
watchman, who was sergeant-major during the
Mexican war, and considered one of the best
swordsmen in his corps, is teaching me sabre
exercise, and if I only pass a fair examination at
Trenton, I shall get a commission as lieutenant,
I hope."
"No fear but you'll make the effort. So it
goes: spondee, dactyl and anapest avaunt, and
our nose now is continually in Jomini, or Cavalry
Tactics, I'll warrant. That's our game now, my
unappreciated genius, is it?"
Mark smiled at his old friend's banter, for the
inconstant had indeed given the Muses the cold
shoulder, to pay his devoirs to fierce .Bellona.
He even left uncompleted a stirring ode suited
to the hour, entitled Tm  FASCES, destined to
illuminate the columns of the Belton Sentinel,
and which might have established his reputation
as a second Korner. And wonderful was the
zeal with which he set about qualifying himself
for his new vocation. At break of day he was
off scouring the roads on some mettlesome steed

MARK GILDERBLEEVE. I

207

to acquire a perfect seat, and the evenings he
spent practising sword-cuts and6"moulinets"
with old Copp, or poring over some volume on
the art of war (which, to say the truth, proved
of but little practical value to him), till long past
midnight. Thanks to his perseverance, he soon
had a smattering of the rudiments of the pro-
fession of arms sufficient to enable him to pass
an examination. This and a little of his brother's
political influence, secured him a lieutenantey in
the volunteer cavalry.
George Gildersleeve, however, was not, at all
pleased at the:prospect of parting with Mark, or
rather with Mark's services, for he foresaw a vast
increase of business for him growing out of
the requirements of the War Department, and
needed a valuable coadjutor now more than ever.
He even went so far as to offer Mark a partner-
ship in the Works if he would give up his inten-
tion of joining the army and remain at work,
which the young man, however, peremptorily
refused. George, knowing the bent of his
brother's character, saw the uselessness of further
efforts to dissuade him from his purpose, and
complained to Dr. Wattletop about the matter

a
s
F
l'
gG
fl.
yv
E
t' f
i 4_,
J
E
t
5

r
'
'
'
}
;   .
1
ti Y

s  i
w.  c
S  ,
f
}
.


MARK GILDERSLEEVE.

208

MARK GILDERSLEEVE.

in strong terms, laying the chief blame upon his
old enemies, the anathematized abolitionists, or
" woolley-heads," as he ordinarily designated
them. "He always has some dam whim or other
in his head," said George, alluding to Mark.
"Now it's nigger on the brain, and I believe he
thinks more of freeing the darks than of saving
the Union. So I'd rather he'd stay at home.
It's all very well to go if he was wanted. I'm
ready to go myself at a moment's notice if I'm
needed--when the country calls I'm there, you
can bet your life; and I'll shoulder a fire-iron as
quick as any to help give the seceshers a warming,
and for the matter o' that, the pusillanimous
woolley-heads as well. They both deserve it.
But this boy's no call to go. He's a deuced sight
more useful here, but you might as well talk to a
post. My wife's done all she could and so have
1, but it's no use. Now, major, I wish you would
see what you can do. You've about as much in-
fluence over him as any. one. Dammit, I'd fur-
nish a dozen substitutes rather than have him
leave. He's the best draughtsman I know of, and
worth any three men in my shops. Work 's
crowding on us, and I can't spare him-that's the

'=4
,  ;
{
,
''°  ;
v  x_'
,_,
r .    ,  ,
' ri
t  i
,
'"t   -.
.' ,
",    __
- .
,f ,

{g
F
3i

fact. If it hadn't been for the black republic,
cans we wouldn't have had this here parra-
parracidal war, and everything would have gone
along lovely."
Dr. Wattletop had been to the "Shades" that
afternoon, and made the following dignified reply,
as he settled his chin in his swaddling cravat and
shouldered his walking-stick like a drill-master:
" In days gone by, Mr. Gildersleeve, in days gone
by, Sir, had you Yankees remained loyal and
steadfast (with a tighter grasp of his stick), I say,
loyal and steadfast, as it was your bounden duty,
to your sovereign King George of glorious mem-
ory, you would now have formed part of the
mightiest and grandest empire on which the
sun ever shone, and enjoying and sharing in true,
sound, conservative, and constitutional freedom.
There would have been no strife or fratricidal
war in regard to slavery, for slavery cannot exist
on British soil; but you chose to rebel against
righteous authority, and now, the monster you
have conjured threatens to devour you. Sorry
for you, very sorry; but permit me to say frankly
that you deserve it all  You certainly deserve it
all, and have brought it on yourselves ;" and the

209


210         MARK GII.D1ESLEEVE.

211

MRK GILD ]SI EEVE,

doctor shook his head very decidedly, as if, while
he could not entirely forgive the American na-
tion, he might be willing to temper his judgment
with mercy.
The master of the Archimedes Works was at
a loss, for a moment, how to reply to this unex-
pected philippic; but finally drove his adversary
off by asserting, rather vehemently, that the
American people intended settling their family
difficulties in their own way, and if John Bull
attempted to interfere he would get a repetition
of the warming Old Hickory gave him at New
Orleans.
" Or at Bladensburg, mayhap," added the doc-
tor, as he walked away, convinced that his part.
ing shot was an extinguisher, and chuckling as
he muttered "Ho habet! hoc habet !"

S
s
S
_
_

XIII,
Tam regiment to which Mark had been as-
signed recruited chiefly in Belton from among
the artisans, and sons of the neighboring farmers,
and it was not long before the complement 'was
made up. As time was precious at this juncture
the regiment was directed to proceed without
delay to Washington, to join the corps forming
under Kearney.
A parting surprise had been prepared for
Mark by the men at the Works, who had contrib-
uted to purchase a handsome sword, which was
presented to the young lieutenant a few days
previous to his departure. Work was suspended
two hours before the usual time, and Knatchbull,
foreman of the machine-shop, and the oldest man
at the Works, was deputed to make the present
tion speech. He was an Englishman, but heart
and soul with the country of his adoption. Un-
fortunately, to American ears, his eloquence was
marred somewhat by a strong Northumbrian


MARK GILDERSLEEVE.

MARK GILDERsLEEVE.

burr. Nevertheless, it was not ineffective, and
Mark, who was totally unprepared for such a
manifestation, had his feelings so touched by this
exhibition of friendship for him by his late asso-
ciates, that he was unable to make a coherent
reply. He thanked them with a full heart, and
one and all, big. and little, shook hands with
him; then shouted themselves hoarse, until
George Gildersleeve, who had become reconciled
to. Mark's leaving, and even promised him the
finest charger, money could buy, delivered his
sentiments in the following pithy address:
"Mark Gildersleeve! remember the man whose
horse wore that old shoe over there (pointing to the
fire-place in the counting-room), and remember
your grandfather who shod him just afore the
great battle of Trenton, and stand by the old flag,
now and forever! That's all. Now boys we've
had enough chin-music; step upstairs and wet.
your whistles."
And up they all went into the 1  , here the
consumption of pun   , c ampagne, and .sand-
wiches was wreathed about with the flowers of
patriotic song, and till long towards midnight
the vale of Belton resounded with the choric

Tv
Si  r
t  A;
s' ,,.
;-+ g
f:,f
'' , Y
YY

melodies of. the "Star-Spangled Banner," andr
" Rally round the Flag," whose stentorious strains
were borne across the Passaic to reverberate and
die amid the distant Preakness hills.
The eve of departure was at hand. Mark had
not had any interview or communication with
Miss Heath since her brother's death. He had
seen her several times, either at church or while
she was riding, and exchanged salutation , but
had not attempted to visit her. But now, he
could forego it no longer. Clad in a bran-new
uniform, that displayed his square shoulders and
sinewy waist to advantage, he went with palpitat-
ing heart to the Cliff to take leave of Edna. He
hoped to be fortunate enough to see her alone.
He had not long to wait in the vast drawing-
room, when light footsteps announced the young
lady. She looked slender in her black dress, and
rather pale, but a light blush mantled her features
as she received him with a cordial smile. He
colored in response, and their looks spoke volumes
to each other.
" I-I trust," said Mark, "the audacity of -my
avowal at our last meeting, Edna, has already

;-.,
44
44
.44

E
f
T
11
r;

212

213


214        MARK GILDERSLEEVE.A                                      G    L   ,

been forgiven, but I hope the avowal itself is not
forgotten I"
"You seem determined to remind me of it at
all events," replied Edna, parrying the question,
and withdrawing her hand from his, as she
motioned him to. a chair. She took a seat oppo-
site to him on a sofa, composing the folds of her
dress in a nonchalant way, as if she feared having
betrayed too much gratification in her greeting.
There was an awkward pause for a moment.
Then Mark, exchanging his seat for one beside
Edna, and arming himself with persuasive audac-
ity, took up her words. "Remind you, Edna?
Oh ! could I but impress you with a faint idea of
how intensely I adore you-how completely you
control my wishes, ambition, aspirations-my
heart! Did you know how entirely the remem-
brance of you is interwoven with every thought
of my life, you would not wonder at my cherish-
ing jealously every kind glance and every smile
as a priceless boon."\
Edna attempted to frame some coy reply, but
the artless girl was unable to carry on the coquet-
tish play of a sued maiden against the resistless
ardor of such an impetuous wooer. She could

,,,:
.$:.
; ,
.f r.
.. :;
,t.!"
? ti
i r  a+
;4:
t ,
5
,    ,

BZd.RI  GILDERSLEEVE.       215

only remain silent, with lowered glance and
burning cheek, while her daring suitor con-
tinued, "I may be exceedingly presumptuous in
aspiring to you, Edna. I have nothing to offer,
and I know you deserve all that earth can give,
but all I ask now, is to be permitted to hope, and
meanwhile to worship, for no divinity is too ex-
alted to spurn the humblest devotee; but I need
your consent and encouragement; without that,
the task I have undertaken will be purposeless,
and all honor I might win prove barren. I have
come to bid you farewell."
"Farewell," echoed Edna, raising her eyes to his.
"Yes,".said Mark, "to-morrow morning I leave
for Virginia, and I've come to bid you farewell,
and beg some token-some favor, Edna, which I
know you will not refuse me; and if it should be
my fate never to return-"
"Oh, don't say that," exclaimed Edna in tones
that betrayed her anxiety.
"I trust I shall return, Edna, and in a position
to make me more worthy of the interest you man-
ifest in me. Dearest, the sweet confession I read
in your eyes--in your tell-tale blushes, nerves me
.for every danger," etc., etc.

x.
.
,i
t 1_
;
k;ry
X4
Y
;y  .
1 /
"
t
i


hh,          r
d
L
i
f            =
{
ti
ti
7            1;
6i
S
d
a
fr
( l
Sf    -        Fr

Mark was getting along famously in the time-
honored way, when, at this tender stage of affairs,
who should make her unwelcome appearance but
Aunt Applegate, fortunately a myopic matron,
who underwent an introduction to Mark, without
seemingly noticing the confused looks of the sen-
timental pair. A voluble dame luckily was
Mrs. ,Applegate, who had known Mark's mother
and several of his dead and gone relatives, and
instantly resurrected many incidents and remi-
niscences connected with the existence of those
personages, thereby giving Edna time to assume
a properly demure countenance. Our budding
warrior and lover, while feigning an hypocritical
interest in the conversation of the intruding lady,
would, we fear, have seen her led off to the rack
or stake with glee and' gratitude. In happy un-
consciousness of the kind feelings towards her,
Mrs. Applegate continued, touching upon the pre-
vailing topic: "So you are going to the war,
Mr. Gildersleeve? Isn't it dreadful? Dear me,
I don't know how it will all end. Edna told ne
you had joined the cavalry, and I think you are
very sensible in doing so, for you have a great
advantage over the foot-soldiers, and if worst

f(
T
y
r
Se
ri  f
T (!
r  p T
.l
6
F
f

comes to the worst, and matters become serious,
you can, in case of danger, always get away from
it much faster. Edna said-I believe you read it
in the paper, didn't you, dear? Yes. So I
thought-that you were ' a lieutenant. Now I
should think that was doing very well for so short
a time. Mrs. Mumbie is so worried about De-
catur. He is at the Naval School, you know,
and she is afraid he may have to go and fight.
She's a Southerner, and all her sympathies are
with the South," etc., etc.
Mrs. Applegate continued in this strain for
some time, duly impressing on Mark the necessity
of keeping his feet dry upon all occasions, and
avoiding damp ground as a couch. She offered
furthermore to present him with a quart bottle
of picra, a remedial agent of great virtue and
nastiness. "I prepared it myself, and am never
without it, and wouldn't ~be for anything. Mr.
Applegate used to say, 'Now, Susan, if you'd
only advertise it, you'd make your fortune.' It's
the very best thing in the world to ward off chills
and fever; and now I think of it, Mr. Gilder-
sleeve, if you could introduce it in the army, and
induce the soldiers to take it occasionally instead
10

sI

a
,;
cr
d
y
i
P

2ARK GILDERSLEEVE.

216s

2{7

GMDERBLEEVI13o

(:
'


J
L
S
+  t
P                           "
f            J Ly
?J i
y       v           7t b
r' ?
t
R                       A
r                      n
a
J,                   1S  S                         ,
r        ti           y
k       Y            J, ;J
j S h4h                    .
r                     r n                          '
L {.
1              A ,
i
J +
i
i              '  .
s                t             '
_   i    -
tt          l                                   ,
i
i
.i
e
i                   t
}             k
r, Y
{        r.           "
a          t
h EE}
5
tr        IL

of their vile whiskey and brandy, what a blessing
it would be! I'm sure for my part nothing would
give me greater pleasure than to furnish the re-
cipe. lNow, if you'll bear this in mind, and
write me, I'll send it to you at any time."
Mark promised to do so; he would have prom-
ised anything, even to taking a daily dose of picra
for a month, if Mrs. Applegate would only have
allowed him a few minutes' longer tete-d-tate with
his sweetheart, but it was not to be, and he was
about to take his leave when Mrs. Applegate re-
quested him to stay to tea, an invitation which he
gladly accepted. The Fmeal was rather a stiff
and ceremonious affair, but Mark was supremely
happy as he sat next to Edna. Mr. Heath, who
had returned from his journey apparently not
much improved in health, was rather mystified at
the young officer's presence, and stared somewhat
at his shoulder-straps. Mark noticed that the
patrician had lost much of his old rigid pride, and
looked fatigued and care-worn. He appeared to
take but little interest in the momentous events
of the day, and his one or two listless questions
betrayed a remarkable ignorance of what was
going on around him in relation to the war.

After tea they withdrew to the parlors, with the
exception of Mr. heath, who retired to his room.
Mrs. Applegate, complimenting Mark on his
voice,requested him to favor her with "Angels
ever bright and fair;" which the young fellow
did, you may rest assured, to the very best of his
ability, as he sang to Edna's accompaniment. Then
other visitors came. First, the Rev. Spencer
Abbott, somewhat amazed, and perhaps a little
displeased at Mark's presence, but too well bred
to show it; next, Bob Mumbie and his sister
Ada, to whom Mark underwent an introduction-
an embarrassing ceremony where all the parties
have known each other from childhood, but tac-
itly agreed as they grew up to be as strangers.
However, the ice was soon'broken. The young
rector was pleasant enough and had a batch of
entirely new conundrums to offer. Bob Mumbie,
though rather doltish, was a good-natured, amus-
ing fellow, while Miss Ada chose to make herself
unusually agreeable, succumbing, perhaps, to the
potent fascination of the lieutenant's blue coat and
gilt buttons. She was a rather pretty girl, with
a clear brunette complexion; but strongly marked
brows knit over brilliant black eyes, and disdain..

MARK GILDERSLEEVE.

LV

218

219

MARK GILDERSLEEVE,


II -
Y ,        JyL
1
SY
R           P   a    i
t
p          C4 ,
st4
ti
La _
t{E a       2
G"         §
arm
i
4         12
tz^
a
7
7
a
T.A
R
Y
la :
Ott
r          f
Tu         u
a
f     vi
i;
t
r
i'',

MARK GILDERsLEEVE,

221

220        MARi GILDERSLEEVE.
ful lips, gave her an imperious expression. She
attacked a sonata of Beethoven, but it was evi-
dently beyond the capacity of her unpractised
fingers, and it was a relief when her brother of-
fered to treat the company to "The Old Folks at
Home." Bob Mumbie's forte: was Ethiopian
minstrelsy, and he sang the simple lays of the
plantation with all the pathos of a professional.
Led on by the general applause, Bob followed it
up with "Old Uncle Snow," then "Sally Come
up," and concluded with a "Walk round," after
the manner of the celebrated Mr. Bryant, to the
intense amusement of Mrs. Applegate, whose
capacious form shook with laughter, and of Edna,
who enjoyed it scarcely less. All this was hor-
ridly' unaesthetic, and Mark, the prig, only re-
warded the performance with a condescending
smile. Perhaps, was he jealous that his efforts
had not met with equal success, or that Edna had
requested a repetition of "Uncle. Snow"? For
all that, and in spite- of it, he enjoyed himself,
and passed a delightful evening ; one that he often
recalled as he smoked his corn-cob pipe and rum-
inated before the lonely bivouac-fires during the
tedious Peninsular campaign.

i    I
F
t
Pi
g;
,7

Mark was grievously disappointed though,
when about taking his leave that evening, to find
Mrs. Applegate accompanying her niece to the
door to press on his acceptance a large bottle of
piera. He was fain to content himself with 'ex-
changing a lingering pressure of the hands and
an eloquent look with Edna. She found means,
however, to give him a small folded paper which
of course contained, to his supreme delight, a
tress of her bonny blond hair. Any one witness-
ing his behavior as he went home that night,
stopping every moment to cover the precious
keepsake with kisses, and then as he crossed the
bridge to, the town, to fling a bottle rather im-
patiently into the river, might reasonably have
entertained doubts as to his sanity.
And the sweet enchantress who had cast this
spell? She was rather startled when stopping
at her father's room to bid him good-night, he
abruptly asked her what that young man had
called for? Fortunately he did not notice her
deep color as she answered that he had merely
come to bid them good-by, and Aunt Susan had
asked him to stay to tea.
"Ah!. yes-going to the war, I see. Well,

f
r
f
S
1 .     l   i
t"

__
s -
ti'
'
.
, . .
N           a  r
(yF '.
c ,l:'
f ,,ri
':


MARK GILDERSLEEVE.                                           K GILDE1sLEEVE.

good-night, darling," was all Mr. Heath remarked,
an d Edna was much relieved when she discovered
her father's curiosity extended no farther. But
what a long serious meditation she had after re-
tiring to her room! How often she stopped and
reflected as she braided her hair for the night!
She was now fairly in love. This last step of
Mark's had achieved her conquest. What young
lady with any kind Qf a heart could resist the
fascination' of a gallant who was both a poet and
soldier? And not only that, but who had the
finest black eyes and chiselled features conceiv-
able? Even Ada Mumbie, who had never con-
descended to, notice him before, was now forced
to admit that he looked "splendid" in his uniform.
Edna had read of Sidney, and fancied Mark
must be just such another individual as that
model knight. As for Fred Spooner, who wrote
her such school-boy scrawls from Harvard, what
was there chivalrous about him? But Mark
could only be compared to one, of those delightful
mailed beaux of old who went ambling about
the world smiting every one who didn't instantly
acknowledge that their own particular ladylove
was vastly superior to all other ladyloves in ex..

istence; and she hadn't any doubt but that Mark
was ready to enter the lists at a moment's notice
for such a purpose; and we may add that we
do not think she was much mistaken in her belief
either. So she decided in her mind that as soon
as she was nineteen, and Mark became a general,
which would doubtless be contemporaneous events,
they would be married. Then a sad expression
shadowed her face, as the thought crossed her
mind that perhaps he might fall in battle. When
she knelt at her bedside in her vestal robe, an
appeal for the protection and safe return of the
young lieutenant was not omitted, we will vent-
ure to say.
The sun came out bright and encouragingly
the next morning, when a clear bagle-call roused
the recruiting camp on- the outskirts of Belton.
The men vere under order to leave for Washing-
ton by an early train. It was a memorable day
for the -town, and the citizens assembled to see
the gallant lads off. The cavalry-men were dis-
mounted, lightly equipped with blankets and
haversacks, while their officers carried  their
sabres with all the pride of veterans. They de-

fr

223

222


M2EK GIWERsLEaVE.        225

filed through the principal streets on their way to
the railway-station, accompanied by the "Home
Guard," and preceded by the Belton brass-band
ringing out " John Brown's march," while the
people cheered lustily. There was Mark with
his cap bearing its insignia of crossed sabres set
jauntily on one side of his head, marching proudly
along, unmindful for the moment of his halting
gait, which was more apparent than usual, as he
kept step with the even ranks. As his eyes wan-
dered towards the throng on the sidewalks, he
caught sight of the figure of a young girl closely_
wrapped in a dark shawl. It was Edna; and as
she stealthily waved her handkerchief he colored
to the temples, bowed an acknowledgment, and
so they parted.
More leave-takings at the depot. Poor Mrs.
Gildersleeve sobbing like a child, until her hand-
kerchief was soaked in tears, and her husband,
the bold captain of the "Home- Guards," feeling
probably almost as bad, but affecting an exag-
gerated bluffness, and proffering the rather un-
Smilitary advice to Mark to "stand no nonsense
and look out for number one." Then Dr. Wattle-.
top had his good word of cheer and encouragement

yr
.e
J
i
} ,
{,
Fs
]
3
wf
:
i
.f
y
i
tS
r
t
" '-
r.
'
:
r,
i
ii
r
r.
' e_
r
F        ;r
'
i
J
f
i
f-       ; i
'X
y
ty
}
Y
y
1

for young Rupert, as he called him; and the Rev.
Mr. Sniffen said his kind say; and lastly, old
Copp gave him a parting grip, whose intense
heartiness nearly brought tears into his eyes.
All this solicitude shown in his behalf, and re-
gret expressed at his departure by his friends
caused Mark to feel as if he didn't deserve it at
all, and was rather an ungrateful wretch in going
away. "What shall I do to merit all this?" was
his reflection as the train sped on that bore him
off. "I must not disappoint them, and I shall
not. No, I'll not enter Belton again if the war
lasts until I can wear spread-eagles on my shoul-
der-straps, unless I am brought in on a stretcher,"
vowed be, thinking probably that in either event
the expectations of his friends would be met and
his condition a source of satisfaction to them.
Time passed on with Edna, measured only by
the intervals between the receipt of letters from
Mark. These missives were of course frequent
and fervid, and responded to in as nearly similar
a strain as maidenly reserve would permit.
There was nothing particularly novel or striking
in Edna's letters, but Mark esteemed them as
a  compositions of wonderful merit. He believed
10*

fr

224

G ERSL: VEO

K,
X.
9,
'h
tj
nG


2Aa    GDERsLEEVE.           227

he saw in her well-balanced sentences, and neat,
flowing penmanship a reflex of her natty ways
and symmetric character. These precious 'notes
he always carried about him, and they were read
and re-read until he knew their contents by heart.
Edna,.on her part, made as absorbing a study of
her lover's correspondence.
Mark was with the Army of the Potomac in its
memorable campaign in the Peninsula. Promo-
tion was rapid among the volunteers, and he was
soon advanced to a captaincy. By this time he
had been in several engagements, and behaved
with credit. Naturally, at his first experience of
actual warfare, he was uncertain of himself, and
dreaded lest his heart should fail him. The
gravity of the commanders at the approach of
battle; the sullen boom of distant cannon draw-
ing nearer and nearer-the preliminary pause
inspires the novice with dread and awe ; but the
first flutter of fear over, the sharp crack of rifles
and smell of powder soon kindles the blood of a
true soldier, and Mark found himself in his ele-
ment, oblivious of danger, and dashing with the
foremost into the fight.
He was chary of imparting his own exploits,

but Edna heard of them occasionally through the
public prints, which she diligently scanned every
day for news from the -th New Jersey Cav-
alry. Once she had a fearful fright, for she
found Captain Mark Gildersleeve's name among
the wounded. But, to her relief, a letter from
him came soon after, which informed her that
the injury he had received was but slight, and
that het expected to be in the saddle again in a
few days. The truth was, that our hero's career
had come within an ace of an untimely close.
While out on a reconnoissance, his troop had
fallen in with a portion of Jeb Stuart's horse,
and Mark, who had often longed for an oppor-
tunity for a hand-to-hand combat with some of
the noted Southern troopers, drew his sabre and
rode with reckless impetuosity into the midst of
the enemy. He was about to single out an adver-
sary, as if to engage in a joust, when he was in?
stantly surrounded and a stroke dealt at him which
only the stoutness of his leathern cap-visor pre-
vented from terminating his existence. As it
was, the gash he received was a serious one; but
fortunately his companions had arrived in time to
rescue 'him from further peril, and disperse the

22b'       M9 RR GILDERSLEEVE.


228         MARK GILDERsLEEVE.E2

rebels. The wound soon healed, but it left a
scar which, though it rather impaired his good
looks, he deemed a favor for this reason: since
he had been in the army he was ,often subjected
to the query, suggested by his lameness, of where
and how he had been wounded; the embarrass-
ment of an explanation and the recollections re-
vived by it, were such as to cause him to accept
with gratitude the ugly seam that now disfigured
him, but would thenceforth probably divert the
attention of inquisitive persons from his other
physical defect.
Mark wrote to Edna in a pleasant, jesting way
concerning the embellishment his countenance
had undergone. He promised to send her a like-
ness of his improved appearance at the first op-
portunity, and alluded to the wound he had re-
ceived from the rebel trooper as a mere pin
scratch in comparison with the one inflicted by her
on his heart, with much more to the same pur-
pose, and signed himself " Le Balafr,"
Edna was pleased to find that he took it all in such'
good part, and replied beseeching him not to ex-
pose himself so rashly-she was certain he was
rash and reckless, and for her sake to be cautious

and prudent, ending with the hope that the war
would soon end, and enable him to return home.
Beside her solicitude for Mark, the girl's
thoughts were greatly occupied with her father's
changed health and habits. Despite his cold,
undemonstrative temperament, Mr. Heath was
strongly attached to his child. If his manifesta-
tions of affection had been few and far between,
on the other hand he had never chidden her, and
she had been indulged inevery way, and her
lightest wishes gratified.  The daughter more
than reciprocated the love so charily bestowed,
and her impressionable nature seemed to reflect
her father's changeful moods. Now her intuition
told her that he suffered. He had not been the
same man since the death of his son. At times
he shook off his despondency, and appeared to
regain some of his former energy; but the effort
was but momentary. His business matters were
now entirely conducted by others, and he even
grew neglectful of his personal appearance-a
symptom that struck Edna with alarm.   One
morning when he breakfasted with the family in
his dressing-gown and with an unshaven face,
Edna, after he had left the table, remarked to

MARK GII.DERSLEEVE.     229


MAK GImmESLEEV.           231

~3O    1~MAIM  G LETR5LEEVE.

her aunt on the great alteration in her father's
habits: " I never knew him to do such a thing
before. Yesterday afternoon I saw him go into
the picture-gallery, and I went in very soon after.
He was staring fixedly at that picture of the Sis-
tine Madonna, and did not notice my coming in.
When I went and spoke to him he started with
such a pained expression that it made me feel
dreadful."
"My dear child," said Mrs. Applegate in a re-
assuring tone, "you must bear in mind that your
father is getting old. You can't expect him al-
ways to remain smart and active. Years will tell
on all of us. Besides, everybody has something
the matter with them; if it isn't one thing it's an-
other. Now Mr. Applegate used to say that gout
or rheumatism was more certain if not so desirable
as riches, and I know that years before he died---"
"But, aunt," interrupted Edna, "father is not
so very old. I do not think his condition is natu-
ral. I feel sure he suffers very much; II know it.
Whenever I talk to him he don't seem to be
aware of what I am saying. I often write letters
to him as I used to, on some subject that I think
will interest him, but he lays them aside without

opening them. I can always tell whenever any-
thing ails him; and besides, his last trip did not do
him a bit of good.' He broods so constantly over
Jack's death, and seems so very miserable, that it
makes me feel dreadful to see him; and then, if
I ask him if he feels ill, he seems so annoyed, that
I dare not question him further. I am afraid
that unless something is done his .health will be
seriously affected. Do send a note to Dr. Wattle-
top to come and see him."
"As you please, dear; but you know how
strongly your father objects to having anything
to do with doctors, and how angry he may be if
he finds out we have taken such a step without
consulting him. So we must expect a scolding."
"Never mind, aunt; I'll take all the blame on
my shoulders," replied Edna. "I certainly feel it
is our duty to ask some physician's advice. Sup-
pose you ask Dr. Wattletop to call; you might
say you wished to consult him in case an ex-
cuse is needed. Then you could explain the mat-
ter to the doctor without alarming or annoying-
father in the least. wouldn't that do ?"
"Well, my dear, perhaps it might. At all
events, I'll send the doctor a note, and ask him

230


232          gARg GILDERSLEEVR,
what we had better do. There can be no harm
in that."
Dr. Wattletop came as requested under pretext
of prescribing for Mrs. Applegate. He remained
to dine, and was seated opposite Mr. Heath,
who replied to the customary inquiries respecting
his health with a curt and nervous, "Thank you,
never better, never better."  But he was so un.
easy beneath the physician's big interrogative eyes
so constantly directed toward him, that he feigned
some excuse, and left the table before the end of
the meal.
The physician was struck with the marked
alteration in Mr. Heath's aspect. That energetic,
refiled aristocrat, had suddenly become a listless,
peevish old man. His keen ice-gray eyes were dull,
and the muscles of his once smooth, marble-like
face were now flaccid, and covered with a growing
unkempt beard.. Slovenliness had replaced tidi-
ness, and every part and action of the man de.
noted a great change in his physical and mental
condition.
Dr. Wattletop was perplexed. He questioned
Mrs. Applegate and Edna, but could elicit nothing
to assist him in finding a clue to the cause of this

MARK GILDERSLEEE.

233

sudden and extraordinary transformation in an
individual the least likely to be affected by care
or illness. "A man of brazen constitution-.
heart idem--brain idem," cogitated the doctor,
"on whom emotions and troubles would gnaw
in vain, who was apparently not deeply moved
by the loss of his son, now shows unmistakable
signs of mental distress--for mental it is."
Basil Wattletop, M.D., albeit an experienced
leech, was nonplussed, and muttering something
to the ladies about "splenetic affection," "torpid
liver," and the like, took his leave, to await fur-
ther developments.
A few days later the doctor was surprised to
receive a message from Mr. Heath, asking him to
call at his earliest convenience, on business not
of a professional character,
The doctor took the first opportunity to comply
with the request, and on arriving at the Cliff was
shown into the library, where Mr. Heath received
his visitor, and motioned him to a chair, with
something of his old courtliness of manner. The
physician noticed that his host exhibited an im-
proved appearance, and in particular that his
toilet had been carefully attended to.

~1

1

'
z',
t
4
, c
J"
Se
E
4
r

f

4 S
c
}l
C%.
H
Y _
b
Tl.


MARK GILDERsLEEVE.       235

MARK( GILD RSLEI{J 'E

234

"When I wrote you that note, doctor," said Mr.
Heath with a weak smile, "I did not expect so
soon to have the pleasure of a visit from you. I
believe I was careful to state that what I wanted
to see you about was not of a professional nat-
ure."
"Precisely," said the doctor, nodding his head
in acquiescence,
" Hence I trust it has not interfered with any
of your engagements?"
"Not at all," replied the doctor.
It seemed as if Mr. Heath were reluctant to ap-
proach the object for which he had summoned
Dr. Wattletop, for he remained a few moments
in silence with his fingers to his forehead in
meditation, while the other watched him curi-
ously. At length he abruptly said, "You are a
freethinker, I am told, doctor ?"
The physician, somewhat taken aback by this
unexpected question, replied : "Well, it depends
altogether upon your definition of the term. hf
you mean by freethinker, one who exercises his
reason in an independent way, I certainly am."
a Do you, for instance, doctor, believe in eter-
nal punishment?$ "

"No, certainly not," said the doctor, very de-
cidedly.
"It's a fearful thought," ejaculated rather than
spoke Mr. Heath, as a shudder seemed to pass
over his frame.
"Fearful? It's wicked, abominable, impious.
To suppose that a beneficent God would condemn
a weak mortal to a doom cruel beyond concep-
tion, would punish in a way that eve4 imperfect
man would not, under any provocation, is simply
monstrous. Fortunately there are but few who
really believe in such a doctrine, and those who
do, are, I find, perfectly satisfied that they will
escape, even if the rest of the world is sent to
perdition."
"Doctor," said Mr. Heath, "you will be very
much surprised when I tell you that although I
have been a communicant of the Episcopal
Church for twenty years, and have conformed
strictly to its formias and observances, I have no
settled religious belief."
"Not a bit surprised, Mr. Heath, not a bit. In
fact, I believe that fully three-quarters of the at-
tendants at Church are in the same condition. In-
deed, when I think of the indifference with which

I

V , 1


236

MARK G1DERSLEEVE.

the most solemn and important truths are received,
the mechanical piety of so-called devotees, and
the facility with which they are swayed by trivial
weaknesses, foibles, and vanities, I believe I am
understating the proportion of practical unbe-
lievers to the earnest and consistent professors.
I have found this as my experience of men, that
while all dread falling below what we may call
the average of morality, the mass are indifferent
about rising above it. In other words, while no
one desires to be worse than his neighbor, no one
cares about being any better. This accounts for
the force of example, and the frequency of the
tu-quoque sty1e of argument. It is true there are
exceptions, earnest men and women full of en-
thusiastic zeal, but if anything, these exceptions
prove the rule."
"Mr. Abbott explains this indifference and
the present low state of morality to a want
of spirituality in the Church," remarked Mr.
Heath.
"Want of fiddlesticks," replied the doctor.
"Want of consistency is the trouble. Example-
example is the great teacher, and in fact the only
teacher. If you and I are inconsistent or unjust,

'; n
N
.'t
4 'tar
PS,;
',:;
Y ,
S :_ 4,J
_.
nr
?      _,
_d,
,   _ _,
. .
+     ,
+s'    , _
s
t -,
'
,
'

MARK GILDERSLEEVED~

237

we infect the rest and the contagion spreads, and
no doctrinal exposition can countervail."
"Permit me, doctor, to offer you some refresh-
ment," said Mr. Heath, rising to ring the bell
perhaps to change the topic of conversation, which
~i    d  i   ~ ----

no~w  vrgeu nto commonacs
Presently a domestic returned bearing a liqueur
case.
"cWill you please help yourself, doctor. Here
is. some Sherry-or if you prefer it, Mononga-
bela."
While the doctor was dealing himself a liberal
allowance of the whiskey, Mr. Heath resumed his
seat and his meditative expression. Finally he
drew himself closer to the doctor's chair, as if to
beseech his attention, and said, "You and I, doc-
tor, have arrived at that stage of existence when
the illusions of youth have vanished-when all
the feverish ambitions and vanities have lost their
sway over us, and when we can look calmly at the
approach of death. I will confess to you, doctor,
that until lately I have not realized the insuffi-
ciency of this life; never until the Loss of my son.
As I stood beside his grave I recalled the words
of Burke under similar circumstances: ' What

:
; ,
,
},
"
'

*

I


AK GILDERsLEEVE.         239

238         MARK GILDERSLEEVE.

shadows we are and what shadows we pursue !'
This sense of disgust--of intense ennui of exist-
ence is dreadful-unbearable. . . . . What is
coming ? Where can I get light as to the future?
Where lean for assistance ? "
This apostrophe was interjected, and as if call-
ed forth by the speaker's sorrow.
A pause, and he resumed:
"Doctor, as one of my own age, and as a man
in whose intellect, judgment, and heart I have
the fullest confidence, I desire to make you my
father-confessor. I crave sympathy and counsel.
Perhaps I should apologize for burthening you
with my trials and sorrows, but pity me-pity
me !" He laid his hand on the physician's knee
with such an appealing look, that the latter was
touched. "Whom else can I consult with-
whom turn to? I am at sea yawing like a rud-
derless ship." -
The doctor, who had been not a little surprised
at the tenor of his host's conversation, expressed
his condolence, and proffered his assistance in
any way that it might be found serviceable. Mr.
Heath looked for a moment as if he were about
to confide something-then checked himself, and

K
[ yh1

rising leaned on the mantle-piece in a. pensive
attitude. Dr. Wattletop took this for an indica-
tion that the conference was at an end, but the
Monongahela being excellent, he lingered to re-
fill his glass. Meanwhile Mr. Heath again sat
down and addressed him:
"You say, doctor, that you do not believe in
eternal punishment, because, as I understand you,
it is irreconcilable with reason."
"Because it is irreconcilable with the attributes
of the Almighty. - Again, where is the sense or
harmony, or even necessity of it? I can under-
stand' temporary punishment, but not everlasting
punishment; that would resolve itself simply into
revenge, a feeling that the Creator is incapable
of harboring. No, sir, I believe there is a punish-
ment for sin, but not an everlasting one. I be-
lieve in the harmony of Nature, and that its laws
are inexorable. They cannot be ,infringed with-
out suffering. I do not believe in the forgiveness
of sins."
"Do not believe in the forgiveness of sins!
Have you no faith, doctor?"
"Faith, Mr. Heath, is in the first place a mat-
ter of cerebral organization, and secondly of ac-

,*

r


MRK GILDEmSLE~y

2AIK GUDEBSLEEVE.

cident. Had you and I been born with crania of
a certain conformation, of either Jewish, Moham-
medan, or Calvinistic parents, we would have re-
mained in the faith we were born in, whether
Jewish, Mohammedan, or Calvinistic, to the end
of our days. Had John Knox, for instance, been
born a Hindoo, in Benares, he would have be-
come the fiercest fakir of them all. The mass of
mankind dislike the trouble of thinking, and fol-
low the paths traced out for them in infancy.
Take your friend Mumbie, as an illustration.
Here is a man of average respectability, who
goes to church because it is the correct thing.
What are his views, think you, on the hypostatic
union? it is immaterial to him whether the
minister preaches from the Zendavesta or the
Koran; a certain number of hours have to be
spent listening to him, and then he jogs along
day after day, in the same grooves, satisfied if he
keeps up to the average of respectability. Faith,
Mr. Heath, as connected with dogmas and for-
mulas, is of little consequence, in my estimation.
Who do you think is the better man,-the one
who believes in consubstantiation, or the one who
believes in transubstantiation? My good mother,

241

who was a pious woman, brought me up in the
tenets of the Established Church--hence youth-
ful predilections and associations attach me to
that fold. At one time the perusal of Paley's
Natural Theology, the Bridgewater treatises, and
works of that character, shook my faith, and left
me a sceptic. Such works, although intended to
strengthen faith, serve but to stimulate inquiry.
Possessing an analytic mind, the subtle problems
of Nature had a wonderful fascination for me,
and in trying to solve them, I became for a
time a proselyte to the unsatisfactory theories
of materialistic philosophy, until, fortunately, I
found in the teachings of Descartes a solid
foundation for belief. No logic can success-
fully assail the faith that springs from  intui-
tion. Now, like Kant, I never cease to wonder
at the starry heavens, but far more at the intui-
tive knowledge of God and the Moral Law."
"The moral Law," echoed Mr. Heath, ab-
stractedly. After a few moments he returned,
"Does not charity cover a multitude of sins?"
"It's a convenient mantle, surely. As I said
before, I do not believe sins are ever forgiven,
but bring their own punishment inevitably.
. 11

240


IA.l GrDE sLE.v

242

. ,
t
s
i"
3
Y
f
fr
b
i"i '
F
4
!6
I
3
3
f
N
F
1
*}
{
4
t

Here in this world they certainly do, for all
sages agree on this: that happiness is only at-
tamabl  throu h th   rctice -of  virtue, and  if
this be so, the converse must necessarily be true,
and those who do not practise it must be un-
happy. As the physical health is governed by
certain hygienic laws whose infraction inevitably
produces disease, so is the spiritual health gov-
erned by the moral law, whose infraction also as
certainly brings suffering. To be good is to be
spiritually healthy--wickedness is deformity or
disease of the soul."
" Then you 're not a believer in total deprav-
ity?"
"No. The thing that reconciles us to our-
selves and our fellow-beings, is the knowledge
that the evil we commit proceeds more from un-
wisdom than from depravity. Man is far more
of a fool than knave."
" I mIust ask your indulgence, doctor, and par-
don for the liberty I have taken in thus catechis-
ing you; but as I said, I am emboldened to do
so by the great esteem in which I hold you, and
respect I entertain for your opinions and judg-
ment. One more question: If this idea of 'duty,

this Moral Law, as you term it, is from God, wh
is it not the same in all men? A savage can sl
treacherously and sleep peacefully afterwards
Is not the moral law the creation of intellect?"
"No, intellect merely unfolds and develops it.
The sway of the moral law is in proportion to the
quality of the soul and the degree of reason. Its
power is diminished in beings of limited reason
-or imperfect souls; hence, in a savage or a trg
lodyte it is naturally less than in an enlightened
man--and still less in a horse, with its deficient
reason and incipient soul," explained the doctor,
Mr. Heath again rose from    his seat, paced
across the room, and for the first time \helped
himself to a glass of spirits; then turning to t
doctor, expressed, with forced lightness, his thanked
for the instructive exposition he had been favored
with. At this intimation the doctor took his de-
parture, muttering to himself as he descended
the staircase, "Very odd-T wonder what the
deuce he wanted to see me for? Wished me'to
be his father-confessor. - Egad! I think he as-
sumed that role himself. If he had but asked me
to feel his pulse or look at his tongue, I might
have clapped a feedown against him. As it is,

1t
43-- ,
tFF' '
ti t!
:fr.

Ii

r"
is
X75
3
5  _'
v4 j   °a
i '' ' s
-f1 r
. l    ,
.1"
r    '
r.
,(.  aa'
F-   ''
i "
Si   u_
' -"
.s  '    #
; ^3
3 '_' w
~  v
«
$ x'        _
yet      t
-       - i
..         =-.;

X   M G!i DEBSLiFJVE"

243


4
T
L
'      -    .
M
1  i
y;
3
R
f
'',  T
5'
e
F
f
i
-
Y
t
f;
[      4
X a -  Y
S      5
{
x
f
i
9
i
pr'
M
f
t             a
a

MAEK GILDER5LEEvI-         245

244         MARK GnhDt  LEEVE.
I have had all my trouble for nothing. That
whiskey, though, was excellent-excellent.
Edna had been waiting below to see the doctor,
and as he was about opening thestreet-doorto
leave, she approached with a look of concern:
"Don't you think, doctor, that father is better-
don't you see an improvement in him ."
"Yes," replied Dr. Wattletop, cautiously, as
he drew on his gloves; "Yes-I think, I-he
he drewon hrglovese,
looks better-rather better." .s
" Oh thank you, doctor; I'm evero so muc
obliged to you," replied Edna, joyfully;
"Still, it will be just as well,in case you notice
any change in him or new peculiarity, to advise
me cf it. Good-by."

M. ITEAr   again sent for Dr. Wattletop.
This time the interview was of a more practical
character. le desired to lay before the ps
cayan certa'he phy 1..                              f
cian certain plans in regard to the erection of a
free hospital 'for the county. The need of such
an institution had long made itself felt, and Mr.
Heath had determined to build one and endow it
liberally. Dr. Wattletop approved of the project
and proffered his advice and assistance. Besides
the hospital, Mr. Heath announced his purpose to
erect, also at his sole expense, a home for orphan
and friendless children.
The doctor listened patiently, and acquiesced
as Mr. Heath communicated his ideas, until turn-
Ing abruptly from the discussion of the plan, he
said, "Does it not strike you as a sad commentary
on the condition of society, that such institutions
should be made necessary?"
"'low so?" inquired Mr. Heath.
"Of course I am aware of what will be said


2IAR  GILDJ1 SLI

MARK GILDERsLEEVE.

i            "^
s
t
3
F
}
7
Y
Y
.
t
4
4
i
.r
-
t
'
I-
r
i
3
.4
,'
_
'
s
f

about charity, benevolence, generosity, and the
like, but for my part I detest them. Man seems
to have a horror of being just, and will adopt any
makeshift instead. Now-"
"You surprise me, doctor," interrupted Mr.
Heath, testily ; "from your qualities of head and
heart I expected different counsel, and encourage.
ment from you."
a"My qualities of head and heart," said the
doctor, "have only taught ne this: that there is
but one virtue-justice ; and that the other so,
called virtues are but pinchbeck ones. From
man's neglect and aversion to its practice spring
all wretchedness and misery. I don't propose,
though, to be Quixotic in my propaganda, and
while the infant mind to-day is being trained in
prejudice, self-glorification, conceit, and false-
hoods of all kinds, my puny efforts in advocacy
of a different education would avail naught.
Therefore, my dear sir, now that I have entered
my protest, my best efforts to aid you in carrying
out your plans are at your service, and you may
command me. Only let me say this, to hide noth.
ing from you, that while what you propose doing
is munificent, and as -the world goes, worthy of

;-?
[

246

24

S
r
/..: 1
F ;
;
1
Nit     -
R.
r,-,   -
r
fir.
?
x ,
J{
r, :
-
: ',
4^
;
_ ,
Y
'
, .+
:
x;
f  .
r.
y }
r",
."
.
.;;
z
;
.
::
,;
ro3
t
'r

*

-I

all praise--springing as it must from kind im-
pulses -in my judgment it is all valueless as an
exemplar, or educator, in comparison with the
performance of a simple act of justice."
Mr. Heath seemed to be very much displeased
at the doctor's frank exposition of his opinions,
and said, as he gathered up his papers, "I am
afraid, Dr. Wattletop, that you and I diverge too
widely in our ideas on the subject we have been
discussing, and as concord is indispensable in car-
rying out successfully the objects I have in view,
I think, upon the whole, I shall not be able to
avail myself of your valuable services."
As you please,-Mr. Heath, as you please, sir,"
replied the doctor, rising and taking his leave; not,
however, without a certain disappointment, as the
recollection of the choice Monongahela he had
tasted on the previous visit floated to his palate.
"That man," soliloquized the doctor,,on his:
way home, as he reflected on his interview with
Mr. Heath, "that man has something on his
mind. Soul-sickness of some kinda What crime
must he have committed, to force him to atone
by such prodigal dispensations?  What is the


248

MiRItGILDBRSLLEV@Vi

medicine for his cure, I wonder? Shall -it be
Sublapsarianism or Supralapsariaism, or an elec-
tuary compounded of Podobaptism and Sabel-
lianism ? Methinks yon stalwart son of Holy
Mother Church, Father Maguire, would be most
successful in this case. The heroic surgery of
the disciples of Loyola is often efficacious in such
maladies. Strange that that honest, consistent,
unselfish, truest soldier of the Cross should be
the automaton of an order whose cardinal doc-
trine is 'passive obedience,' whose aim is to de-
stroy free thought and enlightenment, and remand
the world to the middle ages," ,
These latter reflections of the doctor were
drawn forth by the appearance of the parish
priest, who was passing by at the time. His
reverence was a good-humored, blue-eyed Celt,
with whom the doctor had occasional polemical
encounters, and sorely tried with his latitudina-
rianism.
Mr. heath next convoked the clergymen of the
various denominations in Belton, and invited
- their co-operation in carrying out his philanthrop-
ic projects. They readily acceded to his wishes,

S  1F
.   1' 1 .+..:L
"!ti
IT
~. - "
r '
+  + . ,,

249

and expressed their entire concurrence in his
plans. Of course these Praisewonrty acts of Mr.
Heath met with generalpcommendation, and as
they involved the expenditure of very large sums
of money, elicited many enconams on his munif-
icence and beneficence. In fact, he was giving
evidence in every way of what the wyv. Mr.
Sniffen called a " change of heart."  There was
an unmistakable earnestness now in his attend-
ance at worship, and a lowering of his crest that
denoted an attempt to walk in the paths of hu-
mility. There was also a perceptible ameliora
tion in his health, arising probably from the di-
version of thought called forth by his benevolent
schemes., Edna noticed these gratifying changes
in her father's physical condition with joy, and
he seemed to appreciate her filial attention and
solicitude by increased affection for her. Iais
sole pleasure now was in her society,eand as
warmer days caine he enjoyed long drives in
company with her. Edna had a pair of feet
ponies which she drove like an experienced whip,
and her basket-phaeton was often seen on golden
afternoons scouring along the banks of the beau-
tiful Passaic, or through the wooded hillseof
11*

MARK
s

T"
re:
i
.
i
-
:
,  .
hr
y
f4 -
a S;
ij
fYi
d
41
{^


250          mz GmDESLEEV"
Pompton, with her father languidly reclining be-
side her, and a dapper groom in the rumble.
One evening, as they were returning home
from a drive, and were within a few rods of
the gateway, a man who had been lying on the
sward by the road-side staggered to his feet, and
motioned as ifhe wished to speak to them. lIe
was a rough fellow, a tramp, and evidently in-
toxicated.  Edna, somewhat alarmed, would
havp whipped up the ponies, but the man stood
in front of them gesticulating, and for fear of
hurting him, she drew in the reins and stopped.
The groom, leaping from his seat, wasabout
deal harshly with the interloper, when at a sign.
from his master he desisted. The fellow, with an
unsteady gait, approached Mr. Heath, and held
out his hand, saying: "I told 'em, old man, I
told 'em wanted to see you. That chap at the
gate over ere wouldn't let me in. Told 'm
you was my friend-best friend ever had in the
world-ain't that so, old man ? How you been,.
old top-all right, eh .?"
The under-gardener, who acted as lodge-keePer,
here advanced, and explained that the man had
made several attempts to force himself in the

251

grounds, saying that he was acquainted with Mr.
Heath, and wished to see him on business.
"Sho I did-sho I did-'portant business, I
said, 'portant business, old man," repeated the
fellow,
At the apparition of this stranger, Mr. Heath's
features became livid-iis fingers grasped the
side of the phaeton nervously, and for a moment
he seemed unable to utter a word, Edna fortu-
nately was too much occupied in watching the
intruder and cause of all the trouble, to heed her
father's agitation, while he with a strong effort
collected himself.
" Wouldn't b'lieve ne-told 'ermyou was my
friend-best friend, eh, old man ?  That's so,
thats so, repeated the man with drunken per-
sistency, while Mr. Heath alighting, bade Edna
rather peremptorily to drive oi, and with a hasty
gesture waved the gardener away.
The stranger was a red-bearded man of powerful
build, within about ten years of Mr. Heath's age.
his aspect was coarse and vulgar, and his gar-
ments worn and filthy. Judging from the tattooing
on the backs of his hands, and his red, rugose
neck, he was probably a seafarer, Mr. Heath

['f
f
Y,  l }jTy/
2Y
sa7 : I


MAK GIL   SLEEVE®

252     MARK, GfLD]iRLEEVLh

led him, not without some trouble, up to the
house and into the library, where they remained
closeted together all the evening. Meals were
brought up to them, and the household saw no
more of the man, for he apparently disappeared
before the next morning.
Although Edna was not a little surprised at
this occurrence, and at her father's bearing to-
wards the stranger, she made no allusion to him,
and Mr. Heath anticipated any remarks from his
sister by saying that the man was an unfortu-
nate being with a family dependent upon him
for support, whom he had several times as-
sisted, and who presumed to return. "I.doubt
whether it is really a charity to help such peo-
ple," added Mr Heath, with affected carelessness.
"Still one cannot resist these appeals, especially
when an innocent family of small children is
likely to suffer, for a slave to drink seldom re-
forms."
"Has he a large family ?" asked Mrs. Apple-
gate.
"Yes, yes, I believe so," replied fr. Heath,
manifesting annoyance at being questioned.
know nothing at all about him but what he says."

253

r t
:
F
R
.(
=F
i
{
C,
S

4

This closed the conversation on that subject,
but Mr. Heath's weak nerves were so shaken by
the incident, that for several days after he re-
mained at home, and refused any longer to ac-
company his daughter in her walks or rides.  A.
fortnight or so later, Mrs. Applegate, who was
reading the newspaper, incidentally remarked:
."I see that they have caught that Petersn
the pirate."
Mr. Heath, who was reclining in an easy-chair,
started as if a bolt had struck him  "What!
Who?" he exclaimed.
"Dear me, Rufus, how you startled me! I
merely said that that dreadful murderer that they
called Peterson, the pirate, and who escaped
from jail, has been caught. You must remember
the time there was about it. It was a little after
John's death. I remember there was a story go-
ing around that his name was not Peterson, but
Love, and that he formerly lived in Belton,
Old Mrs. Cosgrove told me then that she remem-
bered him very well, and that his mother was a
washerwoman. She said, too, that he was a thief
when a boy; and ran away to sea after robbing
his master."

p              i
Fv
Y
,
F¢1
C

252


254

MARK GILDERSLEEVE*

"IMrs. Cosgrove is a silly gossip, Susan," said
Mr. Heath, impatiently. "The boy was not a
thief."
"Indeed-why, Rufus, I heard from--"
"Never mind ; it's of no consequence, and we
will not argue the matter," interrupted Mr.
Heath. "Let me look at the paper a moment."
In order to render this colloquy more intelli-
gible, it will be necessary to state that about eight
or nine months previously the public mind was
intensely agitated and shocked by the details of a
murder of a very atrocious character. The crinne
had been committed by a sailor who had shipped
for a short voyage on a small coaster. When at
sea he had'slain the captain, mate, and cook, and
then running the craft near shore, had scuttled
her, leaving in the yawl with a small sum of
money belonging to the captain, to obtain which
had been the sole motive of the triple murder.
Landing on the sea-coast .a few miles below
Sandy Hook, the murderer had been captured by
some fishermen, whp had watched his suspicious
movements. The smack, instead of sinking, was
found adrift,-witli the proofs of the horrid deed

MARK GILDERSLEEVE-

255

still fresh and visible, The guilt seemed, there-
fore, plainly fixed on the accused, and there was
but little doubt that the trial would result in his
conviction. Still the evidence against him was
but circumstantial, and his counsel, a man of
ability, made strenuous and persistent efforts to
clear him. In the progress of the case, it came
out that the prisoner was an old and hardened
desperado, who had been incarcerated many times
in various countries for misdemeanors of every'
degree. It was furthermore discovered that he
had given to the court an assumed name, and
that his true one was Klove, and native place
Belton. This revelation, naturally enough, cre-
ated some excitement among the older inhabitants
of that town, who still remembered iKove as a
boy of fourteen, who had been forced to leave the
place in consequence of an accusation of theft.
This charge, although not proven at the time,
was now resurrected,, and brought up to his prej-
udice as an illustration of how youthful depravity
would lead eventually to the gravest and blackest
crimes. Mr. Heath, who was a clerk at the time
Klove was living in Belton, and had a distinct
recollection -of him, was naturally much inter-

}        _  a
* _ ,,t7
'
s
u


MARK G LERSLY YR

MARK GILDEBRSLEEVE.

ested in the progress of his trial, and read and
re-read the reports of it as they appeared in the
newspapers, with an absorbing interest. In sin-
gular contrast was his dislike to having the sub-
ject mentioned or talked about in his family.
Mrs. Applegat, who had a predilection for the
horrible, wa4 full of the murder, and discussed
it at every n eal, much to her brother's annoy-
ance. As the rial drew near its close, Mr. Heath
took a short trip, being absent about a week.
While he w s away, the trial, which was held at
Freehold, ca e to an end; and, in spite of the
skilful effort to exculpate him, the prisoner was
convicted..  he case was too clear to admit of
the slightest doubt, and the jury found him guilty
of murder. His lawyer tried strenuously to ob-
tain a new trial, but without avail, and he was
remanded for sentence.
The very ext night Klove broke jail-a bar
of the window of his cell had been wrenched
out, and watch-spring saws and files were found
lying about, conveying the impression that he
had received assistance. A  turnkey was sus-
pected of complicity and dismissed, although the
proof was hardly sufficient to implicate him. It

was this escaped pirate-this murderer whose re-
capture, after having eluded the officers of jus-
tice for several months, when announced by Mrs.
Applegate to her brother, produced such a shock
to the latter's feelings. The fellow, it appeared,
instead of fleeing to some distant land, had re-
paired to his former low haunts in Nev York,
and spent his time in idleness and carousing, for
he was apparently well supplied with money.
While in liquor and in an unguarded moment,
he had betrayed himself by some compromising
remark, which, coming to the knowledge of the
police, caused him to be speedily secured, and on
a requisition front the Governor of New Jersey,
conveyed back to his quarters in the county jail
at Freehold. He was now placed in double
irons, and kept so strictly guarded day and night
as to preclude the possibility of a second evasion.
Soon after Klove's recapture, Mr. Heath again
started on a mysterious journey. During his ab-
sence the news came that strong efforts were be-
ing made by some influential person to obtain a
pardon for Move from the Governor. To ac-
count for these singular manifestations in behalf

257

4

256


258          MARKt GILDERsLEEVE.
of so great a criminal, it was rumored and popu-
larly believed that Klove was not love, but the
losel son of a venerable bishop of the Episcopal
Church, distinguished alike for piety and learning,
who was naturally anxious to save his offspring
from the disgraceful, though well-merited, deat
of a felon. Nothing transpired, however, to sus-
tain this report, which was simply a figment  o
the imagination, due, doubtless, to the popular
love for the marvellous. Meanwhile love had
been sentenced to death, and lay in prison await-
ing  his doom.
A fortnight or so elapsed before Mr.wlieath
returned. Edna saw at a glance that there was
a change for the worse in her father's condition.
He was evidently laboring under a recurrencetod
one of his melancholic spells, with aggravateun-
symptoms. His form had waste dt he plainly
tenance become haggard.   n sh.r,       at
exhibited the signs of one borne down by a great
weight of grief. To his daughter's affectionate
inquiries, he replied only in monosyllables, and
repaired immediately to his apartment. Edna
consulted with her aunt, and Dr. Wattletop was
again summoned; but Mr. Heath peremptor Y

MARK GILDERsLEEVE-        259

refused to see him or any other physician, and
the two ladies were left a prey to their apprehen-
sions.
Mr. Heath's condition excited the doctor's pro-
fessional curiosity. It was an abtruse physiolog-
ical problem, and spurred his zeal. By dint of
patient investigation, and consultation with the
family, he discovered the great interest Mr.
Heath took in the pirate Klove. lie questioned
the groom and gardener in relation to the stran-
ger who had been harbored by Mr. heath, and by
comparing their descriptions with others, came to
the conclusion that the mysterious visitor and
Klove were one and the same man. To satisfy
himself clearly on that point and obtain a further
clue to this singular affair, he proceeded to Free-
hold. Here he was not only confirmed in his
conclusions, but learned, furthermore, that a gen-
tleman, a stranger, answering closely to a descrip-
tion of Mr. Heath, had been noticed in attendance
at the trial, and in frequent consultation with the
prisoner's lawyer.
There was no longer any doubt in the doctor's
mind of the existence of some connection or in-
timacy between the pirate and the patrician,


MAlK GILDERSLEEVE,         261

2630         yAARK GILDE~RsLEEVE. O
which the mere fact of the former's having once
lived in Belton would scarcely account for.
ie was inclined to suspect a secret tie of kinship,
had it not been clearly established- at the trial
that Klove was born in Germany, and brought to
the United States in childhood by his parents.
Still cudgelling his brains for a plausible theory
to account for Mr. heath's singular proceedings,
he was' at length forced to refer them to some
phase of hypochondria.
Mrs. Applegate was decidedly of the opinion,
now, that her brother was going out of his mid.
She had often heard of such cases, she informed
Dr. Wattletop. Mr. Applegate had a friend who
was taken so, though, to be sure, his trouble arose
from the Millerite excitement, and fear of the
world's coming to an end. "Of course Rufus
has no dread of that kind or anything of the sort,
but I do think and believe that it all grows out of
his son's death, and nothing else."
" Do you really think that. he is so much
affected by his son's death?" asked the doctor,
with an incredulous expression.
" I don't think he has been the same man since.
To be sure he didn't take on so much at first, and

didn't seem to realize it fully; but T believe he
feels it more and more, and it is that that has
made him so different from what he used to be.
Poor Edna! dear me, she worries so about her
father, and I'm very much afraid she'll fall sick
if this continues. Her room is near his, and she
says she hears him pacing the floor at all hours of
the night."
"Insomnia, eh?"
.And he talks to himself so often; and then
again, if you speak to him, or question him, he
looks at you so vacantly without replying."
Precursory sign of cerebral disease, thought
the doctor.
"It's dreadful-dreadful ! " continued Mrs.
Applegate. "I can't help but think sometimes
that Rufus is losing his senses, and yet such a
thing as insanity was never known in our family."
Dr. Wattletop had arrived at a somewhat sim-
ilar conclusion. He believed Mr. Heath's dis-
ease was taking the form of monomania, brought
about by the combined effects of disappointment
and grief on an overwrought brain. In such a
condition the distracted mind was not only read-
ily affected by any striking or impressive event,

co

:  ;      j

,
, yf
a ..
.
~,


262

MARKET GILDEiS5LEEVE.

}
Y
V j +p
t
I
yS *
;Y
t
4rY
A'
d
i+
t
'

E

but apt to identify itself therewith in some bi-
zarre manner.
"It is very important in Mr. Heath's present
state, Mrs. Applegate, that we should keep his
mind as free as possible from any agitation. No
exciting news should reach him. If it were possi-
ble to keep the newspapers from him, it would be
well; but I presume that is out of the question.
However, be careful and vigilant. I think he
needs rest and tranquillity more than anything
else now. If he would only consent to see me, and
if I could only interrogate him a little, I might
form a more intelligent opinion of his condition.
At the last interview I had with him, we had an
interchange of opinions on subjects connected
with certain plans of his, and I don't think he
was pleased with my comments on them; so I
don't know how far my attendance on him would
be acceptable now."
" He won't hear of any physician's being spoken
to about him. I have tried my utmost, and Edna
has pleaded; but he's as obstinate as can be, and
won't listen to us," said Mrs. Applegate.-
"Sorry. As it is, I am to a certain extent
groping in the dark, and under the circumstances,

as you can readily understand, it is very difficult
to prescribe a course of treatment with any de-
gree of confidence. I don't know what else I
can say or recommend just now. As I said, pre-
vent as far as possible any vexations, exciting, or
annoying news from reaching him. Note every
symptom, and advise me."
Such commonplace ad vice was - doubtless all
that the physician could, offer, as Mr. Heath
stubbornly refused to see him or any other medi-
cal man, and indeed, had given himself up to
such complete isolation, as to deny audience even
to his business agent, and to the architect in
charge of the construction of the Hospital and
the Home, so that the building of those institu-
tions was now perforce suspended. He even be-
gan to evince an aversion to the society of his
family, and to avoid meeting them, took his
meals by himself in his own apartments.

MARJKGILDER SLEE ®1

263


264

~AKGUDERBLUMEo

XV L
Omr Friday Klove was hanged.
The public prints of the following day- were
filled with details of the occurrence, and Mrs.
Applegate, mindful of the doctor's injunctions,
strove to keep her brother from reading them.
A futile effort, though, for Mr. Heath, on find-
ing that the newspapers were not brought to him
at the usual time, rang the bell violently, and
rated the servant soundly for the omission.
The magnifico was in his chamber, and looked
as aged as a man of eighty. His hair and beard
had turned white, his eyes were cavernous and
feverishly bright. Roused momentarily by the
incident just mentioned, he returned to his seat
in an arm-chair near the fire, where, wrapped in
a dressing-gown, he had probably passed te
night, as his couch was undisturbed. He soon
relapsed into a gloomy meditation, holding in his
hands the folded newspaper, which he appar-
ently hesitated and dreaded to read. Suddenly,

M^     *     ,i                    i
P  j      -                                       -,
'                         ,
+.          ,
,                                      c
m
4                 .                   o                                ij
f     sn    f                                              i
k

r
G
jl
'\
b
.V
1
.j
:
t
t
rF
1
4
a:
s'.
v
; t

with an effort, his fingers spread the sheet open,
and he scanned the columns rapidly until his
eyes rested on the account of Klove's execution.
To an unusually long description of the horrible
affair' was appended what purported to be the
confession of the malefactor, made to the clergy-
man in attendance, and reported verbatim. It
ran thus:
CONFESSION OF LOVE, THE PIRATE.
When I was a boy I lived in Belton, in this
State. My mother was a widow, for my father
died the year after we came to this country from
Germany. There were two of us children, me
and a girl. My mother did washing for a liv-
ing, and I worked for a man named Cook, who
was very hard to get along with, and to him I lay
all my troubles. I suppose I must forgive every-
body now, as I hope to be forgiven myself, but
it's mighty hard to let up on him. Now I ain't
a -going to say that I didn't kill the men aboard
the smack, and that I am unjustly sentenced to
die; but I say this, and I believe, as I hope for
mercy hereafter, that if it hadn't been for the
unjust way in which I was treated when I was a
12

265

I
4'
r'U

'JAIUGILDERSLI+E +~p

i
4


*

t i(I
~1n
It

MA    GILDERSLEEVE.

boy, by that man, I wouldn't be here now. The
way of it all was this: One day Cook sent me
with some money to pay a bill at the store. I
didn't know how mach there was, but when the
store-keeper counted it he said, it ran short ten
dollars. When I went back to Cook and told
him, he got angry, and said he had given me the
right sum, and I must have stolen the difference.
Now he had a grudge against me, and I believe
he never gave me the money, but wanted to get
me into trouble. I knew I couldn't have lost it,
and the shop-keeper counted it before my eyes,
and he couldn't have taken it. Ilowsomever,
Cook swore I stole the money, and they locked
me up. They didn't keep me long, though, for
they couldn't bring any proof, and was obliged to
let me off. But I couldn't stay in Belton after
that, for no one would employ me, and they all
shunned me for a thief. So I left the place and
went to New York, but as I was a stranger there,
and didn't know any one, I couldn't find work.
Then I shipped for a three years' ci-uise, for I
thought by that time all would be forgot, and I
could go back home. As bad luck would have it,
my shipmates found out that I had been locked

MARKGr nRSL EE

267

up for thieving, and when one of the crew had
his chest broken open, and some things missing,
they laid it to me. I was innocent, but they
wouldn't believe it, and the character I had got
went against me, and I wasn't spared a bit. The
captain abused me, the mate rope's-ended me, and
the men kicked me and called me jail-bird, until
I was more miserable than a dog. My whole feel
ings were changed. I got bitter and revengeful,
and if it hadn't been that I couldn't get away I
would have knived some of my shipmates. When
the vessel touched at the Sandwich Islands, I ran
away and knocked about with the beach-combers,
a wicked set of outcasts, until I became bad as any
of them. I lived among the Islands several years.
I shipped again, ran down to Valparaiso, and
made several voyages up and down the coast.
One day I got into a drunken row in a pulqueria,
and stabbed a Chilian. This caused me to be
sent to work in the mines as a convict. I got
away from there after staying three years and
shipped in'a French ship to Bordeaux, and from
there I got to New York. I hadn't been in the
States for ten years, and all that time I hadn't
heard anything from my folks. I had become so

266

4

O"

-o


il
ii

MAI  GILDE1RSLEEVE,

MARK GILDERSLEEVEB.

reckless as to have no wish to see any of them.
When in New York I went one night to a dance-
house in Cherry Street, and there among the
women I found my sister. We didn't know each
other at first, but I discovered her by a queer
scar on her neck, which she got from a buirn
when a child. After questioning her, I found
out that my mother took on so about me that she
left Belton soon after I did, and went to New
York. There she fell sick, and died in want, and
there was my sister a degraded creature. What
little good was left in me was turned by this
sight into bad, and I swore to be even with a
world that had been so unjust to me and mine.
The old feeling of vengeance rose up in my
breast-the devil got hold of me, and I thought
of Cook. That 'night I started off to find him,
and went to Belton. I hung around there till I
found out he was dead and gone some years. If
he had been living I would have killed him, sure.
All that's wrong, I know, but I couldn't help it.
Then I felt just like waging war on all the world.
I went to California, and kept a drinking shop on
what they called the Barbary coast, where I used
to rob miners. Finally I shot one that showed

269

fight, and the Vigilance Committee drove me off,
and 1 cane back to the States aid went to New
Orleans, staid awhile, and came north. I knocked
around New York for a time, and finally shipped
on the smack, where I committed the deed that's
brought me here. The world has got the best of
me at last, and it was very wrong and sinful for
me to kill the men, and it is right that I should
suffer for it and be hung; I ain't a-going to deny
that; but I know this and repeat it, that if I had
been treated right when a boy, if I hadn't been
accused of stealing when I was innocent, I
,wouldn't be here now, and my sister wouldn't
have been ruined. We might have been as
happy and as good as any, so let Almighty God
judge. Before I go I want to say this: that in
the trial I was fairly treated, and I want to pub-
licly thank all those people who were so kind to
me. One gentleman has been veiy good to me,
did all he could to help me, and I can't be too
grateful to him. lHe happened just to have re-
nembered me when I was a boy and lived in
Belton, and to this kind and benevolent man, I
say, may God bless him and reward him."

268-


270         MARK GILDERsLEEVE.
Rufus Heath read those lines with dilated eyes
and shortened breath, like one undergoing the
rack. When he had finished, he let the paper
drop and uttered a deep groan. His head sank
back on his chair, arid he pressed his hands over
his temples and brow as if to smother distract-
ing thoughts. lie remained thus for some time,
until a light hand was placed on his shoulder,
when he started as if it had been a blow.
The intruder was Edna, who, having knocked
at the door and receiving no reply, had entered
the room with some anxiety. "Father, dear fa-
ther, how you frighten me ! What ails you?
Are you in pain?" exclaimed she, alarmed at his
wild aspect. " Do tell me, please tell me, what is
the matter?"
"Matter-matter," repeated Mr. Heath abstract-
edly, as he rose and walked towards the window.
"No-no-nothing, child, nothing. Why do you
-Ring the bell for James and leave me-leave
me, I tell you. I have business to occupy me."
He was rattling his fingers nervously on the
window-panes as he spoke, and looking vacantly
out. His daughter strove to draw him aside, and
looking in his face asked anxiously if she might

MARK GILDRSLEEVR'         271

be permitted to send for a physician. "I'm sure
there's something the matter with you-you look
so very, very strange. Do please, father, may
I?"
"No, no, no! Leave me, Edna, and do as I
bid you."  She obeyed, and Mr. Heath made a
struggle to regain his self-possession. When the
servant came, he directed him to bring a decan-
ter of brandy. As soon as it was brought, with
a trembling hand he poured out a tumblerful
and gulped it down. It seemed to affect him no
more than so mich water, and pacing the room,
he forced a laugh as he soliloquized: "Idiot,
idiot, and threefold fool! What is it to me that
this vagabond and ruffian has met his deserts ?
Nothing, surely nothing. Then why should I
worry about it? Why should' I be tormented.
and maddened by it? Those who murder must
expect to be hung. A man is responsible only
for his own crimes-the crimes he himself com-
mits, and surely none other, none other. What a
monstrous, cruel, wicked doctrine it would be
that would hold men to account for the remote
and indirect consequences of trivial and common-
place acts. Skilful lawyers cheat justice every

.4


272                 GD    SLEE               MARK GILDER

day; thousands and thousands of villains have
been rescued from the clutches of the law by
their paid advocates, and set loose on society,
to again plunder and kill. As well hold these
advocates responsible for the crimes subsequent-
ly committed by their clients, as to tax me with
-jshaw! it's too absurd to deserve a moment's
thought. What a simpleton I am to quake like
a puny child because a low ruffian meets his
merited fate! How ridiculous-absurd-prepos-
terous! No, no; I ain getting old and childish
-old and childish," he continued, to croon, until
interrupted by the entrance of a servant with
luncheon, who was quickly bidden to withdraw.
The luncheon remained untouched.
Again in the arm-chair, and staring with a
look of despair at the fire; again torturing
thoughts seethe in his brain. The pirate Klove
was~hung yesterday for murder. What a blood-
stained desperado he was, and what a life he had
led! Where was bis soul now? Who would ex-
change places with him to gain the whole world?
And all this had arisen, he said, from the dis-
honesty of some one who. had caused him to be
unjustly accused of stealing a small sum of

money. What a flimsy and shameless apology!
What an atrocious attempt to shift the responsi-
bility of hellish deeds to other shoulders; to drag
some innocent person to everlasting perdition
with him!   Suppose Cook, his employer, had
really given him the money, and had no intention
of wrongfully accusing him-what then? Per-
haps the money vas lost, and if so, if any one
had found it they would naturally have kept it.
Of course, anybody would do that. It's a very
common thing for persons to do. It is an every-
day occurrence. No one but a fool would act
otherwise. Ten dollars is but a trifle, and to at-
tribute to the loss of a sum so paltry such ter-
rible, awful consequences, is simply ridiculous.
But the boy should not have been allowed to rest
under the imputation of having stolen it. He
should have been saved from arrest. They dis-
charged him-yes, they discharged him. He
was not long imprisoned. True, but he should
have been cleared from suspicion at any cost-
any cost ! His innocence proclaimed in thunder
tones far and wide! To omit that was wrong,
fearfully, bitterly wrong ! Not doing so, forced
him to leave home in disgrace; made hin an
12*

3.

MARK GILDERSLEEVE.      273'


K GILDERsLEEVE.        275

274         MARK GILDERSLEEVE.

outcast, killed his mother, drove his sister to
shame. Horror! . . .. .      -
..And he thanked the kind gentle
man who had been so good to him, and with his
dying breath, bade God bless and reward him!
"O Christ, help-help me!"
These last words escaped from Mr. Heath in a
lacerating cry. He pressed his hands to his face
as if to shut out some horrifying sight, and re-
mained so until he gradually fell into a dreamy
stupor. The excited mind ceased to work, and
became numb. Luminous images floated before
his mental vision, and kaleidoscopic, intermin-
glings of uncouth objects and faces.
Then the wearied and distracted brain lapsed
into a feverish slumber-a slumber alive with
fearful visions. He dreamt he was in a prison-
cell. It was' night, and the grated door swung
open to admit the jailer and hangman. They
pinioned him, and led him out to the scaffold.
At the foot of the gallows lay a coffin, containing'
the corpse of Klove, with horribly distorted feat-
ures. The hangman was about pulling a cap over
his face, when Mr. Heath awoke with trembling
limbs, and a cold sweat starting from every pore.

It was evening, for he had lain in that stupor
and sleep for hours. Again he resorted to the
brandy to dissipate the lingering impressions
of the frightful nightmare, and then rang the
bell. The servant appeared, and desired to.know
what his master wanted.    Nothing-nothing,
Yes, to have light in the library-he would read.
Did Mr. Heath wish to have dinner brought up
to him? No, no; leave me-leave me. The man
lit the gas in the library, replenished 'the grate,
and left.
The library was the room     adjoining Mr.
Heath's, and thither he went. He took a volume
from a shelf, and returned to his apartment; then
resumed his seat and lethargic stare at the fire.
The book fell unheeded from his grasp.
Hours passed, and again the coarse, distorted,
purple features of Klove appeared-once the
countenance of a timid boy, who stood falsely
accused and cowering before a stern magistrate
thence driven by a storm of hisses, and flying
from home, followed by a widowed mother and
child-sister. And the brand THIEF clings to the
hapless lad, and enmeshes him in a web of mis-
fortune; now reckless with despair, he plunges
/              x


2AEKEGILDERsLEEVE.       277

into vice and crime, until the law forces him to
yield up his spotted soul on the gallows!
And how fared the real thief?.
He, sly and sharp, in sudden glee at his trover,
bought with it a lottery ticket that drew a prize.
This windfall, shrewdly invested, brought him a
fortune, then an heiress; and thus he waxed in
wealth and station, until he became one whose
possessions bred envy, and whose position com-
manded respect; while the innocent and wrongly
accused boy became an outcast, a criminal-an
assassin!  Driven to perdition by the wealthy
and respectable citizen!
"It's a dream-a dream. The foolish dream
of an enfeebled man, whose reason and judgment
are failing and wandering; who is frightened at
shadows conjured by his imagination. My mind
wanders. Why will those dreadful thoughts re-
turn? That sinking terror !"
"I must leave this room-this place-for the
air is full of jibing imps!  . . . . I must
go, for all this luxury mocks me. Away from
this roof-from these ponderous walls, that are

loaded with iniquity, or they will fall and crush
me. . . . . In some quiet, retired spot I
may live in happiness and peace."  . .
Mr. heath left his room, and with stealthy
steps descended the stairs.  It was late; the
house was silent; all had retired for the night
save he. With nimble fingers he opened the
hall-door noiselessly, and went out on the lawn.
He was bareheaded, and in his dressing-gown
and slippers. The night was dark, gloomy, and
rainy. The cold drops falling on his unprotected
head seemed to soothe and refresh him.
"So, so-this is better," he exclaimed, with a
sigh of relief. "How dreadful was all that pomp
and glitter! *How fortunate I am to have es-
caped from those torturing, horrible riches !
That wealth was consuming me  like licking
flames-that load of ill-gotten money crushing
my poor brain-my poor brain. Now       I am
free, free! and will seek a home where poverty,
and peace, and happiness abide."
With almost preternatural adroitness he picked
his way, in spite of the obscurity, over his grounds
and out at a postern gate to the open road. He

61;
i{r
r I i +

276             GILDERSLEEVEO


278

IARK GILDERsLEEVE.

walked along rapidly, and seemed intent on
reaching the town. He changed his apparent
intention, however, for he retraced his steps and
turned abruptly into a by-path that led along the
river-side.  On he went towards the cliff, pro-
ceeding as unerringly as if in broad daylight,
and without the slightest hesitation, guided, per-
haps, by some instinct similar to the marvellous
second-sight of the somnambulist.  The least
deviation might have brought him to the edge of
the precipice. At length he reached the foot-
bridge. It was a frail structure of wood span-
ning the chasm, with its ends resting on the lofty
basaltic walls. Mr. Heath was about to cross
this bridge, but stopped midway and gazed in
the direction of the town only to be distinguished
by the faint glimmer of a few lights. He seemed
absorbed in reflection, and stood there in that
wild, rainy night, -unmindful of the cold and
wet, and motionless amid the continual thunder
of the falling waters, visible through the black-
ness in swiftly agitated scrolls of snowy foam-
But his thoughts were elsewhere; back to the
time when he was a young man beginning life,
and had seen the boy Move standing on that

KGILDhi SLEEVE.,

279

bridge with his little sister by him! The two
children were staring in open-eyed, awe at the
appalling depth below them, and the boy held
the girl tightly by the hand in precaution. It
seemed but yesterday. He, Heath, then a clerk,
was taking some papers to Mr. Obershaw, when
he passed those two innocent children on the
bridge. Better for them-far better, had he
flung them both into the raging torrent below!
Again he met the boy at old Van Slyke's store.
There was a dispute about a missing bank-note,
and the lad was in dismay at the loss. He,
Heath, had seen the note fall on the floor, and
put his foot on it. He could distinctly recall the
feeling of gratification with which he slyly se-
cured it, and the singular superstitious prompt-
ing that induced him to buy a lottery ticket with
it. That bank-note had borne him luck, and
proved the corner-stone of his opulence and
grandeur ; and its loss had entailed the destruc-
tion of two souls! What fearful, fatal results
from so light a theft! How deeply had the boy
fallen-a malefactor, a deeply-dyed murderer,
and his sister-that helpless child! 0 Christ!
that awful conscience-throe! Why had he not

f
r ,
+_ _-
-
.
,;
: .
Y
")
I
g¢  f
F7   L

x'
s

t,
i,
9
.  t     1
s4"44Y^:

h
r
i ('.
C

a
,


MARK GILDERLEEVE.       281

280         MARK GILDERSLEEVE.

sent them  both to eternity then?  Better for
them and for him. Mercy,' mercy ! that terrible
lead-like load is coming again, and pressing-
pressing so fearfully on the throbbing brain.
Help-O.God!     .   .    .
Easier now-'
and hark! A voice seems calling to him. No,
it's but the sighing wind. Oh for rest, and for-
getfulness, and peace ! . Rest and oblivion.
Take all-all! and give me that. Cannot wealth
buy it ? It is there, though-down there ! How
quietly those black boulders sleep amid that
boiling foam. One leap and I am free!
With a frantic toss of his arms Rufus Heath
flung himself off the bridge. A form vanished
into the dark abyss, and all was over. Sullenly
and persistently, as before, the Passaic plunged
over the steep, bearing in its rapid tide the mag-
nifico of Belton, like a drifting log.
Early the next morning, as some artisans were
going to their work and walking along the river-
side, their attention was attracted by a partly
submerged object near the bank. It was the
body of Rufus Heath, kept to the surface by the

:gi

I
i
a;
T
9 x
;  r
i           I
i f
v
x
_ ?yr
Y$           a

swirl of an eddy. With the assistance of a boat,
the corpse was drawn ashore, and kept there
until the coroner could be summoned.   Like
wild-fire the news spread through Belton, and
crowds hurried to see the drowned body of its
chief citizen.
And then through the circle of gaping, curious
spectators came a cry of anguish that separated
them like the thrust of a sword ; and they hustled
aside as the daughter hastened with faltering
steps to her dead father. With clasped hands,
knit brows, and brimming eyes the poor child
knelt to embrace the wet and bruised head. Her
low quivering sobs awed them all, until George
Gildersleeve, tenderly unclasping her clinging
arms, raised her fainting form, and bore her
away.

r3
Y'
F
t


282  IAR  DERLEEE~OMARX GILDERSLEEVE.

THE huge battlemented villa on the cliff was
a gloomy enough residence since the death of its
owner. The remaining occupants, oppressed by,
their bereavement, moved about the silent rooms
like shadows. Mrs. Applegate was of the opinion
that a change of scene was absolutely necessary
to dissipate Edna's excessive grief,. and that a
continued stay in their present habitation might
tend to impair her health. Edna; however,
seemed reluctant to leave her home, and it was.
only at the urgent solicitation of the Mumbies
that she did so. Mr. Mumbie was one of the ex-
ecutors of Mr. Heath's will, and was also ap-
pointed Edna's guardian. Mr. Mumbie felt the
loss of his old friend Rufus Heath deeply. His
first impulse was to put his whole family in
mourning, but on second thoughts he confined
himself to delivering a eulogy on the character
of the deceased to every one he met, prefacing it
by the sage remark, solemnly delivered, that it

was a very sudden death. As this was a propo-
sition that did not admit of much controversy, the
listener generally coincided. "Ah! sir, such is
life," continued Mr. Mumble, addressing Dr. Wat-
tietop, who added, "And death,"
"Very true-and death,", repeated Mr. Mum-
bie, pausing to reflect, as if this side of the axiom
*  had never struck him before, "and death, as you
very justly remark. Ah! sir, at a moment like
the present, how hollow everything looks! What's
money at a time like this ? How transitory and
vain are our pursuits-everything, in fact!"
"Paper-mills, for instance," observed the doctor.
"Yes, sir, every worldly matter; and the reflec-
tion will force itself upon us, that in the midst of
life we are in death, and there's no use kicking
against it. Now Mr. Heath was a very peculiar
man; I knew him thoroughly. We had been
much together from boyhood, and we were always
like brothers-if anything, rather more intimate
and affectionate than brothers. We began life
together; to be sure, Ihad a little the start of
him, but then our tastes and sympathies were ex-
actly alike to a shade. Mr. Heath, sir (impres-
sively), was a very remarkable man-very remark-

283

I

ITI
j
K  ,t

MARIS: GILDERSLEEVEP

282

I
I
1

t -              ry
i O
F


MARK GILDERSLEEV1E.

able man, indeed. He was not only a scholar,
and a Christian, but a gentleman as well. He
was also, if I may be allowed the expression,
a high-toned man-very high-toned indeed,
sir. He was a . man of wonderful abilities,
wide scope (with a circular flourish to exemplify
the scope), and great grasp (clenching his large
fist)-great grasp of intellect. I will state to you,
and I trust you will see the importance of not re-
peating it-I will state to you in confidence, that
I was consulted in regard to a plan on foot-a
plan in which our most eminent men were en-
gaged: I am not at liberty to divulge names, but
it is sufficient to say that they were our most super-
eminent men ; consulted, sir, in regard to a plan
that would eventually have set Mr. Heath on the
very pinnacle of greatness-the very pinnacle."
"Rather an uncomfortable seat, I should
fancy," commented the doctor.
Mr. Mumbie stared with a puzzled expression
at the physician. He never could understand
him, and took refuge ii repeating the eulogy in
succession to Blanks the stationer, and to Snopple
the photographer. Mr. Snopple acquiesced fully
in Mr. Mumbie's estimate of Mr. Heath's character

MARK GILDERSLEEVE.

285

and virtLes, and stated that any one could see with
half an eye, by merely looking at a portrait of the
defunct gentleman, that he was no ordinary mortal,
but had a very instructive and superior physiog-
nomy; and that, by the bye, reminded him that he
had in his studio a very fine negative representing
Mr. Heath in three-quarter face and characteristic
pose, from which copies could be struck off, which
he would agree to furnish colored, if preferred,
in the highest style of art, for twenty dollars
each, frame included; and which would be an
ornament to any parlor, and one that no family
in Belton should be without.
Mr. Mumbie said he would see about it. Mr.
Mumnbie had no time to think of anything just
then. He was overwhelmed with the responsi-
bilities thrust upon him.
"The fiduciary obligations imposed on me by
the death of my friend Mr. Heath, are very great
--very great indeed, and onerous (with a sigh).
Still it is a duty I must perform; a sacred trust
and burden I must accept., We must all bow to
the decrees of Providence;" and Mr. Mumble, to
console himself, cast up mentally the fees the
executorship was likely to bring him, which com-

it

u 284

9I

4
_  ]
7
t
.   1
e                    }
8 ,

4

i

3'
"         J
L5               b
i               1
d1
V


MARK GILDERSLEEVE.

pleted and perfected his reconcilement to the
decrees of Providence.
To do hiin justice, he was a faithful guardian
and trustee ; and as for his wife, she outdid her-.
self in motherly solicitude for the young heiress,
whom she immediately took under her protecting
wing.
Edna, Mrs. Mumbie insisted, must come and
live with her. She must be removed at once
from the painful associations connected with her
old home, as Mrs. Applegate had very wisely ad-
vised, and her guardian's family was the place
for her. Edna complied, and the Mumbies treat-
ed her like a favorite child. The best room in
the house was allotted to her, and nothing was
considered too good for dear Edna. So the stately
dwelling of the late Mr. Heath was abandoned,
and given over to the care of the gardener, as
Mrs. Applegate, who had been handsomely pro-
vided for in her brother's will, departed to take
up her residence in Philadelphia with an aged
relative.
Mrs. Mumbie had ulterior views in regard to
Edna. The desirableness of securing that young
lady as a helpmeet for her son Bob, had not

.j
r.
;t
K
i,
r Y
j{
Pt   F
e i=
_ I Y
E
'r

escaped the attention of this sagacious and good
mother, and .she decided to bring it about. Let
us add, too, that whatever Mrs. Mumble determined
to do she generally accomplished, as her husband
had discovered at the outset of his connubial life.
Mr. Mumble had a very high opinion of his
spouse's ability, and no little dread of her temper.
She came of one of the very first of the celebrat-
ed first-families of Virginia, the Skinners, and
was connected, moreover, on her mother's side
with the Yallabushas of Mississippi. Everybody
had heard of her father, Colonel Roger Skinner,
of Pokomoke, one of the first poker-players of
his day, whose true Southern hospitality and
peach-brandy were the themes of universal com-
mendation. Mumble met the fascinating Miss Sal-
lie Skinner first at Saratoga, where he at once suc-
cumbed to the potent bewitchment of her raven
hair and brilliant eyes. He ventured, after many
misgivings, to propose, -and was accepted, much
to his surprise and delight, as he had hardly
dared to hope that such a divinity would link
herself with an ordinary mortal. Other people,
who had heard the vivacious belle ridicule poor
Mumbie's large ears and amorphous feet, mar-

it
LII
ill
Yiii

x
r
v
't
z
3
i
i
}
3 's
1
I

i

:

286

MARK GILDE.SLEEVE.

287


ME    GILDERSLEEVE.

MARK GILDERsLEEVE.

veiled too; but the truth was she had accepted
him in a fit of spite at some recreant lover's deser-
tion. Of course the marriage-was considered a
misalliance in the aristocratic circles of Poko-
moke, and the bride's relatives for a while treated
the paper-maker rather contemptuously, but
as poker and peach-brandy had seriously im..
paired the substance of the Skinner family, they
gradually became reconciled to the match, and
condescended to accept largess from the wealthy
manufacturer. Mr. Mumbie had a heart corre-
sponding in size to his ears and feet, and proved
a perfect dove and treasure of a husband. Ma-
licious tongues said he dared not be otherwise,
for the first and only time'he attempted to cross
his wife, she simply flung herself on the carpet,
and beat a tattoo with her heels, screeching terri-
bly the while, until Mumbie, frightened and sub-
jected, promised anything and everything to
avoid a repetition of the scene. This, to be sure,
was in the early period of their union. Now
Mr. Mumbie, through long servitude, was so thor-
oughly broken to harness and under control, and
Mrs. Mumbie had gained such undisputed and
serene ascendancy, that stratagems were unnec-

I
4t
4i  V
p     yy
{{V
}  ii

essary, and she ruled through superior force of
character.
This was the energetic and ingenious lady who
determined to direct the destiny of her husband's
ward, and relieve her from the trouble and diffi-
culty of selecting a husband. To gain her ends,
she surrounded Edna with every attention, and
was more than a mother to her in fact, pending
the time when she would be one in law. The
young heiress began to find herself installed as a
being of immense importance, and was much
surprised at the vast amount of consideration
shown to her by her elders. She was shrewd
enough to suspect that much of it was due to her
wealth, and despised it accordingly; for there
was too much good sense in the girl, and her
character was too frank and independent to yield
readily to the pernicious influence of parasitism.
The correspondence which had been kept up
with regularity between Edna and her soldier-
lover was interrupted by the death of her father,
Mark's intuitive delicacy forbidding him for a
time from intruding on the grief of a mourning
daughter, further than in sending a formal letter
13

a
I
s
a
t
Y
r
3
r
K
s
U
k     F'1
S.
t 1,
r +,
ai
u "
; I
;
R

288

289

i


290         Ang i  GILDERsLEV21,

of condolence. It must be admitted, too, that
Edna in her grief had but few thoughts to bestow
on the suitor who was serving another mistress in
the swamps of the Chickahominy. At length, to
make amends for her negligence, she wrote him
a long epistle, the superscription of which hap-
pened to meet Miss Ada Mumbie's eye. Not-
withstanding the intimacy existing between the
two young ladies, and contrary to the usual cus-
tom in such cases, Miss Heath had never confided
her tender regard for Mark Gildersleeve to her
friend Miss Mumbie. The latter, anxious to
know if any such feeling existed, taxed Edna
with it, and affected pique at her want of confi-
dence. That young lady at once, with a blush,
admitted the soft impeachment. Ada Mumbie
was an outspoken young lady, and took after her
mamma in respect to having an opinion of her
own. - She raised her eyebrows very significantly
at Edna's confession, saying: " Why-Ed-na
Heath, the i-dea I I declare, I am surprised be-
yond anything. I never would have thought it.
He may be a very industrious, excellent young
man, but so very much your inferior in every
way. Why, he's not even a person you could

ill

-J iY
r 5l jfi
r t    ,-'2
_ tF
y'.
h-
Y4+
LS''
"r
;Ty
ZIA

flirt with, much less correspond. His brother is
an exceedingly common man-exceedingly so.
Why, what can you be thinking of ?"
Edna, nettled at this, bridled up and answered,
"I don't know what you mean by so much my
inferior. He's far cleverer than I am, or you
either, Ada. He's very refined and polite and
gentlemanly,FIm sure; and just as good as gold."
"Mercy on us, Edna! I declare I didn't know
you were so very much interested in him, or I
wouldn't have ventured to say a word. To be sure,
my acquaintance with the gentleman is so very
slight that I am hardly competent to judge of
him. I expressed myself as I did solely out of
friendship for you. You know very well that
the position you occupy in society, and your large
fortune-"
" Ada, you might have spared me that last re-
mark," interrupted Edna in a vexed tone. "I
hear so much about my fortune-my wealth, that
I detest the very mention of it. Oblige me,
please, by never again alluding to it in my pres-
ence."
" Well, dear, don't let us quarrel over it. I'm
sorry, and promise you I'll never say another

291

1
't' .

r'
.
'a ;
x,
;
1 Y
, s

?.


292          MARS GILDERSLEEVE.
word about it: there now ; " said Miss Mumbie,
and Edna kissed her friend in token of amity
and restored concord. The friend intended to
be a valuable auxiliary to her mamma in bring-
ing about, in time, a match between her brother
Bob and the young heiress; but she found she
had made a misstep. Thus far, though attentive
and agreeable in his clumsy way, Bob did not
seem to make any appreciable progress in his
suit. When his sister imparted the discovery
she had made, to wit: that be had a rival,
and one that Edna seemed to evince considera-
ble partiality for, he redoubled his efforts to
please. Unfortunately, Bob was not a being cal-
culated to captivate the fair. His physical graces
were few, and his mental less, and he only served
to amuse Miss Heath until he succeeded in bo-
ring her. She, rightfully ascribing this increase
of homage on the part of the enamored Bob to
her ingenuous declaration to his sister, rather
regretted it, especially as she feared having per-
haps shown too much warmth in 'her defence
of Mark Gildersleeve. Thenceforth by a tacit
understanding, the subject was not again re-
ferred to between the two girls.

MARK GILDERsLEEVE.       293

-fit,
vi
z
.';{
,'
 ii+
tfz
,ti  yy
if
IE
.}
"1
.'3
;;

r
3-
3 "
Z
Y

Mrs. Mumbie, on learning of the danger to her
SOnS prospects, determined to nip it in the bud.
" I am really astonished," said she to her hus,
band, "that so well-bred a girl could have
allowed her thoughts to stray away so unguard-
edly. A machinist, dear me, how low! Working
with a hammer-all over oil, and grease, and
smoke. It's positively amazing what crazy no-
tions girls will get in their heads. I suppose,
though, it's all owing to his turning soldier. Of
course, it's nothing but a mere girlish fancy, but
it might grow unless checked. Change of scene
and a new train of ideas will soon dissipate the
foolish whim. A tour abroad is just the very
thing-the very thing. Mr. Mumbie, we must
go to Europe."
"But, my dear, it's impossible to go now. I
can't leave-"
"Mr. Mumbie, we must go to Europe," was
repeated with emphasis, "and the sooner the
better. Speak to Edna on the subject at once-
she needs the voyage. Ada needs it-so does
Bob. It's time they saw something of the world,
.and it will improve their minds vastly."
Mr. Mumbie did as he was bid. Edna was


MR   GILDERsLEEVE.        295

294         MARK GILDERsLEEVE.

delighted at the idea of a trip to Europe, and
readily assented to her guardian's proposal. At
the same time he deemed it well to improve the'
opportunity, in view of what he had learnt re-
specting his ward's inclinations, by imparting
some information which might tend to give her
a better estimate of her worth and position in the
world than she seemed to possess.
" Edna, I believe I have never spoken a word
to you about business matters. I thought it
would be as well to get everything into shape be-
fore I said anything. Of course it is something
that you don't know much about, and yet I sup-
pose I ought to ascertain if you've any wishes in
regard to the management of the estate, and so
forth. If so, I am ready to take them into con-
sideration," said Mr. Mumble.
" I have one wish, sir," said Edna.
"Well, what is it ? "
"I should like to have father's intentions car-
ried out in regard to building the Home and
the Hospital, exactly as if he were alive," said
Edna earnestly.
"But, my child, that would. cost a great deal
of money, a very great deal, and-"

F

"I don't care if it takes all the estate; I pre-
same there is enough to do it," said Edna deci4-
edly.
"Of course there's enough and more than
enough, but I should not be justified or permit-
ted to use any funds in that way. So there's
no use in saying anything more about it now.
When you come of age, why then, we can talk it
over again if you're of the same mind. Now,
Edna," continued Mr. Mumbie, taking up a roll
of paper, "I've got something to show you that
will interest you. I have prepared and completed,
after a great deal of labor, an inventory of your
late lamented father's estate. The estimates are,
if anything, in many cases below the real values.
Here is the schedule--and what do you think it
all foots up ? What do you think it all amounts
to in dollars and cents?"
"6I don't know," replied Edna. " A great deal,
I've no doubt."
6 ."But guess-try and guess," insisted Mr. Mum-
bie with an air of triumph.
"Please don't ask me; Pd rather not," said
Edna seriously.
"Rather not!" repeated Mr. Mumbie with as-

$,
;
;
s

f
z
'
F


.290       MAE OLS5JV~                                        1A~(GLfy~               9

tonishment ; "why, bless me, why not? Don't
you want to know how much you are worth?"
"No-no-" said Edna quickly, and shaking
her head.
"Why-why not?"
" Because-because-" said Edna, her eyes sud-
denly moistening, and sensitive mouth quivering.
Mr. Mumble looked perplexed. "Why, Edna,
it is clearly your duty that you should gain some
knowledge of the way in which the vast for-
tune you have inherited is invested. You must
begifto learn something about it, and about taking
care of it. It is very seldom that so young a per-
son is so fortunate as to have such riches left them,
and_"
Edna burst into tears. "Oh, please, sir, don't
say anything to me about it now. I suppose it's
very wrong in me, but they all talk to me so
about my wealth, that it makes me feel wretched.
They appear to envy me-and to think I ought
to be so happy in being rich, until it seems as if
they thought I had profited by my poor-poor
father's death. I wish I were poor and had
nothing."
This is very extraordinary indeed, thought Mr.

Mumble, who imagined he had prepared a pleas-
ant surprise for his ward. "Well, well, Edna,
dry your eyes, my child. We won't talk business
if you don't like it. Mrs. Mumbie says she thinks
the trip to Europe will do you good, and 've no
doubt it will. So get ready and we'll all be off
as soon as possible."
In less than a fortnight after this conversation
Edna, and the Mumbie family with the exception
of the youngest member, were at sea on their way
to Liverpool. Before leaving, Edna wrote a letter
to Mark, bidding him an affectionate farewell;
promising that her absence would be but a short
1one, and reiterating her oft-expressed wish that
the war would soon end and enable him to return
home safe and famous, By the time this epistle
.reached its destination the one it was addressed
to was a captive in the hands of the enemy. An
expedition had been planned to make a dash in-
to the capital of the Confederacy and rescue the
prisoners confined on Belie Isle. Mark Gilder-
sleeve took part in this hazardous undertaking
which through lack of support failed., and lhe with
a few others as rashly venturesome, were surround-
ed and captured; not, however, until after a gal-
l~3

MAR, 7 GILD+LL          297


MARK GILDEESLEEVE.       299

298          MARK GILDERSLEEV.

lant struggle in which several were killed and a
number wounded. Among the latter Mark, who
received on that occasion a carbine bullet in his
bridle-arm, which he repaid by lodging the con-
tents of his revolver into two of his assailants.
Another shot, however, disabled his horse, and he
was made prisoner. He suffered severely from
his wound, owing to a want of proper medical at-
tendance; but fortunately the ball, which had
taken an erratic course, was easily extracted, and
his vigorous constitution did the rest. He spent
some five weary months in Castle Thunder and
was then exchanged. On his ,return to his regi-
ment he found the letter from Edna, announcing
her departure for Europe, awaitinghim. Ie had
written to her several times during his captivity,
without receiving any reply; now her silence was
explained. His letters had probably not been
forwarded properly, or if forwarded had not
reached her. He had had an almost irresistible
inclination to revisit Belton, but now that it was
bereft of its chief attraction the desire vanished,
and he returned to his duty, with an increased
determinatkn to carve his way to distinction at
whatever cost.

F
)
}5
f
1
2,
j'rt ;
'i y
i
1_a
i' '
*.    '
3' .
k ,
?
y '    t
t
7
i  __

Meanwhile Miss Heath and her friends had
arrived in Europe. It was her first visit there,
and she found so much that was novel and pleas-
iig that her mind was constantly occupied and
diverted. Some time was spent travelling through
England and Scotland; then they proceeded on
the usual tour through the Continent, making a
lengthened stay in Paris. The following summer
was passed in Switzerland and at the German
watering-places. In the former country they met
some pleasant English people, and among them
a party of Cambridge students.  One of the
Cantabs was very attentive to the young ladies,
and Edna declared he was the. most entertaining
and agreeable young gentleman she had ever
met. He was handsome withal, judging from a
description of him given in a letter of Edna's
to her friend Constance Hull, in which she said:
"His complexion is just lilies and roses-in fact
it exactly matches the blush-rose in his button-
hole; and his large, limpid irids are of forget-me-
not blue--suggestive hue! Everything's 'awful
jolly' with him, and he makes the ,nicest bever-
ages with sherry and claret, and sliced cucum-
bers, called 'claret-cup,' or something of that

v


300         MARK GILDERsLEEVE.

sort, but at any rate, it's perfectly delicious; and
he's just as full of fun as he can be, and always
ready for some frolic or other." Such delightful
walks and excursions as they enjoyed together,
and how sorry they all were to part with him.
Even Mrs. Mumbie seemed to regret the separa-
tion, perhaps because he was the nephew of a
lord, and had paid some attention to Ada, who
certainly was- smitten with him. As for Edna,
she was suspiciously quiet for a few days after
his departure, and we fear that during that time
her thoughts seldom reverted to her absent suitor,
the striving Union volunteer. But his image
arose again to reproach her, as she reflected that
she had not written a line to him in a very long
while. To be sure he had not replied to her
last epistle; in fact, she had written three or four
without receiving any response, and had half
made up her mind not to write again until she
had received an acknowledgment of her letters.
Perhaps, thought she, they may not have reached
him. Still he might write to me at all events.
Poor fellow! who knows, he may be sick, or
wounded,.or in prison. Dear me, I've been so
distracted with all I've seen and heard, that I'm

afraid I don't think as often of him as I ought
to. I'll sit down at once and write him a good,
kind, long letter to make amends. And she did
so, but it met a fate similar to the previous ones,
bearing the same superscription, that she had
sent, and found- its way, we regret to say, into
the hands of Mrs. Madison Mumble, who con-
signed the tender lines to congenial flames, after
having cynically perused them. While in Paris,
Edna, in recognition of the kindness shown her
by her guardian's family, had presented the
mother and the daughter with expensive parures
of diamonds. The one selected for Mrs. Mumbie
was in particular composed of the finest and
most costly stones. Mrs. Mumbie was profuse
and almost abject in her acknowledgments and
thanks to dear Edna. Could that generous young
heart have known that this velvety woman had
been treacherously intercepting her correspond-
ence-rifling the depositaries of her secret
thoughts, she would have shrunk from her as
from a reptile. But to youthful innocence base-
ness such as this exists not.
The next winter was spent in Italy, chiefly in
Rome. Edna's enthusiasm for the glorious old

KARR GuvERSLrEVE.         301


302         MARK QLnDERsLEEVE.

city knew no bounds. Between sight-seeing and
shopping she had not an idle moment. The
quantities of silken sashes and jewels of coral and
mosaic she bought for presents, and the money
she spent and flung away to lazzaroni, would have
driven her grandfather Obershaw as wild as Shy-
lock was at Jessica's extravagance. She created
a great sensation among the artists.. The sculp-
tors wanted to model her lips and chin, and the
painters raved about her hair and complexion ;
altogether, between the studios, the ruins, the Car-
nival, and what not, she was having, as she ex-
pressed it in her correspondence with Miss Hull,
"a splendid time."     There was a long postscript
to that letter to this effect:
P. S. You remember I mentioned in my last, that we had
engaged a new courier in Paris, a handsome Italian named
Luigi, who was so very refined and distingus-looking, and such
an excellent linguist. Well -the secret is out ! He is a
Count, and his name is Borgia, Count Gasparone Alessandro
Borgia, a scion of the illustrious family of that name-just
think of it ! He betrayed himself to Ada in an unguarded
moment. He was stripped of his patrimony by confiscation,
and adopted his present vocation the better to elude the ma-
lignity of his enemies, who are continually seeking to perse-
cute him. Who those enemies are, I do not clearly under-
stand. Sometimes he says they are the Jesuits, and at other
times he accuses Mazzini and the red-republicans. He hints

RK GILDEsLEEVE.                803
also at hereditary foes of his house, the Orsini and Sforzi.
Evidently he shrinks with intuitive delicacy from speaking of
himself and his misfortunes, and feels his position keenly.
Ada caught him in tears once or twice mourning the deca-
dence of his house. lHeassuredher, on his word of honor, that
all the stories that were in circulation respecting the poisoning
propensities of his family are malicious falsehoods, and is very
indignant at the outrageous way in which the dramatists have
treated his distinguished ancestress-and I don't wonder at
his anger. I think he says she was his great-great-grand-
aunt; but I won't be certain. Since we have learned his
title and rank, we have all felt a delicacy in treating him as
a courier. Mr. Mumbie almost insisted on his taking his
meals with us, but he firmly, and dignifiedly refused, which I
think was very honorable in him, don't you? I flatter myself
not a little on my sagacity and knowledge of people that I
felt certain the moment I saw him that he was no ordinary
person. The seal of high birth is unmistakably set on his
noble brow and statuesque features; and then, 0 Constance,
such eyes ! such flashing, mElting orbs ! . . .
The Fosters leave for home next week. I intrusted them
with a present for you which they kindly consented to de-
liver. It's a turquoise set, and I hope it will suit you. I'm
sure it will be becoming. I did intend to surprise you with
it myself, but it's so uncertain when we shall return that I
thought I would avail of the opportunity to send it at once.
Please accept the set with the best love of
Ever yours,
EDNA.


K GILDERsLEEVE,

0Ig GtLDERSLEEVE.

XVIII,
IT is not our purpose to follow Mark closely in
his career during the war. Suffice it to say, that
after his exchange he had rejoined his corps, and
taken part in the memorable battle of Gettysburg,
where the legions of the South, flushed with vic-
tory, were checked in their advance on Northern
soil, and driven back by the Union soldiers.
With steady courage he perseveringly sought lau-
rels. His gallant bearing on several occasions at-
tracted the notice of his superior officers, and his
noteworthy conduct in leading an attack on the
forces of GeneralImboden on the Cashtown road,,
whereby a large number of rebels were cut off
and captured, won him the grade of major. The
young fellow, as we mentioned, started in life with
an unusual stock of vanity, fortunately counter-
balanced by a chivalrous spirit and scorn of the
mean. Much of this vanity had been eliminated,
probably on the homeopathic principle of like
curing Life, for his profession was one decidedly

calculated to foster that weakness. He was sensi-
ble enough, however, to avoid the arrogance en-
gendered by the possession of authority of which
he saw so many examples, and better still to pre-
serve his soul from that callousness and ferocity
which 'are the worst fruits 'of horrid war. He
felt the insidious approaches of the baleful influ-
ences, but resisted. Bearing in mind, also, his old
friend's injunction to beware of the sway of preju-
dice over reason, he strove to be just and unbi-
assed. There was some of the old paladin spirit
in Mark. He recognized among the enemy many
who were as earnest and sincere in their cause as
he was in his; perhaps he was frequently led to
think that the advantage in that respect was on
their side, as he saw with inexpressible disgust the
host of mercenaries whose sole thought was how
to turn their country's misfortunes to profit, and,
worse than all, lukewarm, disobedient generals,
sacrificing their soldiers' lives to gratify some
pique or partisan feeling. His blood boiled,
too, at the unmentioned cruelties practised on the
unfortunate race who had been the innocent cause
of the fratricidal strife.  Jhis sympathy very
nearly led him into serious trouble on one occa-

804

305


806

MARK GILDER SL1 VE#

sion. Among the regiments in the Army of the
Potomac were several recruited from the dregs of
the large cities of the North. Many of these men
were without respect for their flag, and capable
of any deed, or ready for any adventure that
promised plunder or diversion. It was a common
practice with them to shoot at any negro they
found astray, in the vicinity of their camp.
Mark, while away by himself one day in Virginia,
came across a party of these fellows on some
marauding expedition. Presently one of them
espied a negro standing at the door of his cabin,
near the edge of a wood, and without more ado,
raised his musket and shot him dead. So enraged
was Mark at this wanton murder, that, unable to
contain himself, he drew his revolver and sent
a bullet. into the assassin. He fell, seriously
wounded. His companions were about to retali-
ate, but intimidated by the major's bearing, and
somewhat by his rank, hesitated, and concluded
to report him at headquarters. The matter re-
sulted in a court-martial, but Mark was acquit-
ted with a reprimand.
War either makes or mars a man. The soul is
drawn so completely out of the commonplace

grooves of ordinary life, so far from the shnk-.
ing influences of wealth-seeking, and into an
arena where emotions and passions contend so
fiercely for mastery, that it comes out of the ordeal
either sensibly debased or refined. Fortunately
for Mark, it had purified his character; had
given him a broader view of the aim and scope of
life, enabling his will to crush out all vain hopes
and envious desires, and find his pleasure in the     -
performance of his duty and the approbation of
his conscience. In short, he had become a true
man. To how many, however, did the campaign
prove a curse---how many contracted indolence,
and habits that unfitted them for the avocations of
peace, or 'exchanged their rectitude and purity
of heart for vicious tastes that embittered their
future lives.
Time passed. Mark became attached to Gen-
eral H---'s staff, and spent many months before
Petersburg. It was there he performed an ex-
ploit which has remained legendary in the annals             I
of the war. During a night attack on one of our
batteries, the rebels had succeeded in spiking a
siege-gun w7~hich commanded their position, while
it protected our working parties of sappers. As


308         MARK GILDERsLEEVE.

MARK GILDERSLEEVE.

soon as the piece was rendered useless, the ene-
my's sharp-shooters, swarming in rifle-pits close to
our lines, seriously impeded further progress on
our part. Vexed at this interruption, the com-
mander called for volunteers to unspike the gun;
but as this involved getting on the breech, and
becoming a target for the foe while the work
lasted, no one seemed willing to undertake it.
In this dilemma, Mark, being known as a skilled
machinist, was consulted; and after an examina-
tion, he reported in favor of the practicability of
the job, while admitting the extreme peril attend-
ing it. Perhaps any intention of, executing it
would have been abandoned, had not a comment,
made 4y one of the men to another, to the effect
that it was easy for officers to set tasks for pri-
vates which they were not willing to do them-
selves, been accidentally overheard by Mark,
which stung him immediately into offering to
accomplish the hazardous feat. Armed with
several well-tempered bits and a brace, he went
forth at nightfall on his perilous errand. Strad-
dling the breech of the monstrous cannon, and
crouching as low as possible, with the brace
against his chest, he plied the drill vigorously.

t
r
}
}
f

Scarcely had he begun to work, when he was
perceived by the vigilant rebel marksmen, who
immediately opened fire. He could see the long
rifle-pit, not a hundred yards distant, ablaze with
the flash of fifty rifles, and feel the wind of their
bullets as they whistled past him. Fortunately,
favored somewhat by the obscurity, but far more
by good luck, he remained unscathed, save by a
skin-grazing touch. In fifteen minutes (it seemed
to him an hour) the vent was clear ; a primer and
lanyard were then passed up to him, and these
affixed, he slipped off the cannon as quick as pos-
sible. Seeing him drop, the rebels imagined they
had shot him, and sent up a yell of exultation,
which was suddenly checked as a discharge of
grape from the liberated gun scattered death
among them. Iark was not destined to escape
entirely uninjured, for in his haste to get off the
gun, and anxiety to avoid any danger from its
recoil, he fell heavily, and was picked up with a
dislocated shoulder. This accident, however, en-
tailed but a short confinement, and he was soon
able to be on duty again. Needless to add, that
Mark received full meed of praise for his daring

I  x
IL "
5 Lx

309


MARK GILDERsLEEVE.

MARK GILDERSLEEVE.

achievement, which furthermore earned him the
grade of colonel.
In this his hour of triumph and full flush of
gratified vanity, one thought was constant and
uppermost. How would Edna receive the news
of his renown? If she felt but one momentary
responsive throb of pride, he was repaid, and re-
paid a hundred-fold, for all he had risked and
undergone. But would she hear of him? Where
was she ? Although he had written her several
letters he had received none from her, since the
one announcing her departure for Europe. Her
silence was unaccountable. So long a time had
elapsed that he began to despond. "Well, well,"
thought he, "it's inexplicable, and useless to in-
dulge in conjectures. I'll not do her the injus-
tice to believe that it is intentional neglect on
her part. We'll see what it all means when she
returns. Meanwhile I must console myself by
re-reading her old epistles."
He occasionally received a communication
from his sister-in-law, who kept him advised of
all the Belton gossip-births, deaths, marriages,
and so forth. At length one came, conveying
the welcome intelligence that the Mumbies and

their fair charge had returned home, Mrs.
Gildersleeve stated that she had seen Miss Heath,
sand that she was looking remarkably well, but
exceedingly grand and dignified; adding, "You
would hardly know your old sweetheart, now,
Mark. She holds her head as high as a queen,
and goes sweeping through the streets as if the
earth were not good enough for her to tread on.
I do not think, I am sorry to say, that travelling
has improved her a bit." This was uncommonly
severe criticism to come from the worthy lady,
and amazed Mark ; but perhaps her opinion was
somewhat .colored by the fact that Miss Heath
had, unintentionally or otherwise, neglected to
return Mrs. Gildersleeve's bow; an omission cer-
tainly sufficient to bias the judgment of the least
prejudiced woman who respects herself.
There was a lull iii the conflict. The shock of
arms and bruit of war gave place to the patient,
silent work of the engineer. Inch by inch, the
Union army advanced its lines of investment,
and slowly the constricting circle was closing.
Dull monotony succeeded, broken only by the
occasional bursting of a shell over the trenches,

4

i'x
Z_4
L' 3
F
{;
+,
'  t

811

810

11:
t't
i.
'- 1
t
i
f
f


,
.
4
;
,

MARK GILDERSLEEVE.

or the crack of a sharp-shooter's rifle and ping
of bullet, startling some too venturesome'spec-
tator. Apart from this, all was inaction or weary
routine. Deeming it a favorable time to apply
for leave of absence, and longing to see Edna,
Mark sought and obtained a furlough, and was
speedily on his way north.
It would be difficult to describe the Colonel's
feelings as he approached his home. The antici-
pated delight of meeting his friends, relatives,
and above all, Edna, was mingled with a vague
sense of apprehension-a premonition- of some
disappointment that he could not shake off. He
had been away full three years. It seemed to
him at least ten; and he dreaded to be . con-
fronted by unpleasant changes. Belton, at least,
was still the same, and in its usual quiet mood.
Contrary to the expectations of many of its inhabi-
tants it had not as yet been invaded by the Reb-
els ; still, as untiring vigilance was the price of
liberty and safety the "Home Guard" kept up
its organization and weekly drills, under the
patriotic supervision of Captain George Gilder-
'sleeve. The first thing that attracted Mark's at-
tention, as he passed up Main Street, was- a full-

MARK GILDERSLEE VE.

Ii

313

length colored photograph in Snopple's show-case,
of his brother, in all his panoply, figuring con-
spicuously in company with portraits of Generals
Grant and Sherman.
Mark had hardly been in the town five min-
utes, before the fact was known from one end of
it to the other ; and Dr. Wattletop devoted him-
self to informing everybody he met, that Mark
Gildersleeve had returned from the "wars, bear-
ing his blushing honors thick upon him."
Of course the fatted calf was figuratively killed
by Mrs. Gildersleeve, and the doctor took tea at
her table that evening, and a joyful meal it was.
The colonel noticed a marked change in his old
friend.  Age was shrinking his once rotund
form, and his countenance wore the expression of
one seeking rest after a strife with life. His
disputative spirit was apparently quenched, as he
evinced no disposition to take up several thorny
assertions on the part of the doughty captain of
the " Home Guards," who monopolized the con-
versation. This martinet criticised very severely
the dilatory and bungling way in which the war
was carried on, and set forth a plan of operations
of his own, which, he was ready to back with any
14

312

Y  #'
3 ¢
t,
f K
i
v "'
-,
i
_
' ,
y
.
7
}'I
s      '
_ F,
is
Y
's
i               (!N .S?

II

r
#i
E
Y
F
a
Y


4

ii

IARK GILDERSLEVE.,

amount of money, would, if carried out by the
commander-in-chief, bring the rebels to terms
in the short space of time limited to three shakes
of a sheep's tail. No one had -a stronger belief
in himself than George Gildersleeve. It was a
faith, too, that increased with his years and pros-
perity, and perhaps had contributed not a little
to the latter.
As for the young colonel, he was singularly
taciturn. Perhaps a little disappointed in find-
ing that his lady-love had left the town, albeit
it did not mitigate in any great degree the
pleasure he felt in being once more in his old
home. Certainly his appetite was not affected;
and the quantity of clover-honey, of preserves,
both quince and crab-apple, of stewed oysters,
of Sally Lunn, and waffles he consumed, were
sufficient to give an able-bodied ostrich a gastric
derangement.
After the meal they sat in the little parlor.
Mark opened his long-neglected piano and tried
a few bars of a favorite Nocture; but his stiff fin-
gers made poor work of it. It was pleasanter to
sit beside his second mother. There were a few
more silver threads in her smooth hair, but her'se-

I,,

MARK GILDERSLEEVE,

315

rene, loving face seemed to him as young as ever.
Presently the Reverend Samuel and Mrs. Snif-
fen dropped in, for whom the colonel had to
fight his battles o'er again.
"And how about that exploit of yours, un-
spiking the cannon? We've all heard of it,
colonel," said the minister. "Mrs. Bradbury's
son, who was there at the time, wrote a full ac-
count of it home, but we want to listen to it from
your lips."
"Yes, yes, Hotspur, out with it," added the
doctor. The red shone through Mark's gypsy
cheek, as he gave a confused and stammering
recital of the incident; and he felt decidedly re-
lieved, when he had concluded, at his brother's
blunt remark that he deserved to have been shot
for his pains, as no one but a fool or a crazy man
would have attempted such a job.
"Mercy, George, don't say that !" said Mrs.
Gildersleeve, who had been listening, pale and
with a shudder, to Mark's narrative.
" George is right," replied Mark; "it was noth-
ing but a foolhardy freak, done on the spur of
the moment ; and I 'would not have attempted
it if I had taken time to reflect."

814

14

11

3,
U
1]
Ui


316    ~MAREK GILD]3R5L13]V *MR                         XDRSRV.8'

The colonel was rather anxious to slur the
feat; for, on analyzing the motives that impelled
him to its performance, he was obliged to confess
that it was pricked vanity and the desire to win
Edna's admiration, rather than any stern sense of
duty or devotion to his flag.
"You never wrote me a word of all this, Mark,"
said his sister-in-law, reproachfully. "However,
perhaps it is just as well;" and addressing Mr.
Sniffen, who was about taking his departure, she
asked him if he would, before leaving, kindly
lead in prayer, so that they might all return
thanks for the safe return and preservation of
Mark from so many dangers.     "You will join
us, will you not, doctor?"
"Most certainly, my dear lady," was the reply;
and the old materialist, who had sought with a
scalpel for the soul in a cadaver, the stoic, the
Pythagorean, knelt and united in sincere devo-
tion to the Father of all, whom we worship, each
after his own little system, way, or fashion.
After the departure of the guests, the circle
around the grate-fire was still further narrowed,
and Mrs. Gildersleeve opened her budget of
news. She first inquired of Mark if he did not

316

"id
z= 1
;e
f;l
1f
v
Vj
' t1
'S
.  SI
1
if I
i
~t.
i°
i
j
:I!
. 1:
f
s'.
if
r       r
.r
1S1.
1l
t
1
A'
t1

think the doctor had greatly changed? "Very
much;" replied Mark.
"Poor man," continued Mrs. Gildersleeve, "I
feel so sorry and anxious about him. He has
lost a great deal of his practice--almost all the
paying part of it. He has still a host of patients,
but they are mostly among the poor, from whom
he gets little or no pay. I believe if he had all
the money due him he would. be rich; but he
never tries to collect anything. About six
months ago his dog died-that large black one,
that was always with him; and he cried like a
child, said he had lost his best friend, and
wrote a very singular obituary, that was published
in the paper. After that he took to drinking
very freely; and one day while under the in-
fluence he struck with his cane a teamster who
was beating a horse; and the man had him
arrested, and if it hadn't been for your brother,
the doctor would have been put in jail."
"I think he served the teamster right,"ere-
marked her husband, "only he didn't give him
half enough."
"Very likely; but the doctor made such a
ridiculous speech about it in court. Spoke

MARK   DEBSLEEV Ee

317


MARK GILDERsLEEVE.      819

about animals having reason and souls, and that
some men were inferior animals to the brutes;
and accused the clergy of cowardice min shirking
the question of the connection and duty of man
to his fellow-animals, and a lot more of such
stuff. To be sure he was under great excitement.
Mr. Sniffen thinks the doctor got those perverted
notions from living so long in India among the
heathen. Since that time the doctor has not
been the same man. He never touches a drop of
anything, and he is always grave. He has failed,
too, very much. Poor man! I feel so distressed
about him, and was so rejoiced to see him join
with us this evening in prayer. It is certainly
very hard for a man of his years, f r he must be
eighty, to be left without any one, away from
relatives. I should so like to help him if I knew
how to approach him without offending him.
He is such a very peculiar person,"
"It is his own fault," said George. "I offered
to run him for coroner, or put him in as county
physician, if he'd get naturalized and become a
citizen ; but the pig-headed old duffer got as in-
dignant as if I'd insulted him; talked about his
sovereigih and her Gracious Majesty, until I shut

him up. So he's no one to blame but himself.
Ten o'clock, eh ? I'm off to bed. I suppose you
and Maggie will talk here for three hours yet;"
and George retired with a stretch and a yawn.
When they were alone, Mrs. Gildersleeve
touched on the topic nearest to her brother-in-
law's "heart. It was done in the light of an
apology. She said: "In one of my letters, I am
ashamed to say, I spoke censoriously and un-
justly of Miss Heath, and I wish to take it all
back; but it shows how particular we ought to
be not to judge hastily. Miss Heath, I suppose
you know, has come into her property, and her
first thought and care is to carry out her father's
intentions about building those charitable insti-
tutions. It will cost ever so much. I believe
Mr. Mumbie tried to prevent or rather persuade
her not to lay out so much money, but she
wouldn't listen to it; and they say is even go-
ing to spend more; but that's just like Edna
Heath."
How intensely the colonel's heart indorsed
that opinion. "Where is she now ?" he inquired.
6"She's living in New York, with the Mumbies.
You must certainly pay her a visit, and renew

4,

318         MARIA C+ILDERBLEEVE.


320         MARK GILDLERsLEIEV.

MARK GILDERSLEEVE.        321

i
p
r
r'

your old acquaintance. Mr. Mumble sold out
his paper-mill, and has retired from business."
An hour or more of such conversation and
Mark withdrew, to find himself again in his little
bedroom. Nothing was disturbed. There was
his bookcase with its narrow desk, where he had
passed so many hours in brain-racking devotions
to the immortal Nine ; and as he glanced over
the turgid lines of some uncompleted poem in the
portfolio, his smile justified the belief that time
brought its own severe criticism to poetasters'
There lay in their accustomed places his guitar
and zithern, and over his bed-head hung, as of
yore, the engraving of Carlo Dolce's waterr Dolo-
rosa, whose exquisite mouth and chin were but
counterparts of Edna's. It was so natural to lie
in the bed where he had slept since childhood;
and he seemed to breathe such an atmosphere of
peace and quietude, that the tremendous events
he had passed through during three years, seemed
like a hiatus in his life, or a dream. Did the
war exist?  Here, all was tranquillity undis~
turbed by alarms ; but away on the banks of the
Appomattox his brethren in arms slept in sus-

Ii

pense; the vigilant picket watched the wily foe;
the bursting shell tore the limbs of some sleeping
soldier, and starving conscripts, in butternut rags,
were flying from the rebel trenches to hospitable
imprisonment within the Union   lines.  Such
thoughts filled Mark's mind as he tossed uneasily
on his downy couch and soft fringed pillow,
until, to court slumber, he was obliged to wrap
himself in a blanket, and seek repose on the hard
floor.
The next morning, in his impatience to see Edna,
he would have started at once for the metropolis,
but there were his old associates at the Works,
who could not be neglected. He went there, and
shook hands with them all, from Knatchbull to
the youngest apprentice. How they all crowded
around and questioned him, and seemed to be as
much interested in him as if he belonged to them,
while his brother stood by with an approving
look, as if the colonel were entirely the product
of his care and training. Mark found the Works
still further enlarged; for his brother's business
had increased prodigiously, and George, while al-
hiding to this, did not fail to remark to the colonel,
with a spice of malice, that if he had remained at
14*

,E
GF
i4
Al-
to
,1t
tYf
J r

r

i

f


MAK GILDERsLEEVE.           323

322

MARK GILDERsLEEVE.

home and accepted the partnership, he would by
this time have possessed a small fortune. "A clear
hundred thousand were the profits last year-a
clear hundred thousand. What do you think of
that, old man? " BEnt the old man, as he affection-
ately called him, did not seem to think much
about it, for he merely replied, "Glad to hear
of it for your sake," and seemed as indifferent as
ever to'such favors. George then said, as a con-
solatory offset, "Whenever you want to come
back, you're welcome. Your old place is waiting
for you, and it will pay you better than soldiering
in the end."
Then there was the visit to the Falls. No true
Beltonian returning from a long absence. ever
failed to pay his devoirs at that shrine. It seemed
as if the old legend of the Indians, that the Great
Spirit abided there, had ,perpetuated itself, and
found believers among their white successors.
Mark passed an hour of the fine January fore-
noon in pleasant contemplation near the cataract.
It was an old friend. Its roar, its crags, its
emerald waters were familiar to him from child-
hood, when he spent holidays around the pebbly
shores seeking flint arrow-heads, or in older years

when he resorted thither to derive inspiration and
metaphorically court the nymphs and diyads.
The torrent that sped on in sublime and unceas-
ing monotone had measured his existence like
a clepsydra.
Mark extended his walk to the cliff-to the
villa that had seemed to him a very palace of en-
chantment, and around which so many blissful
associations clustered. Here was the spot where
he had made his first avowal of love, and he
could almost recall the novel, delicious thrill
with which he pressed Edna's hand to his lips.
Now the gates were chained and locked, and'
their lamps broken by vagrant boys; the lodge
was tenantless; the marble basin of the fountain
choked with dead leaves, and its spouting swans
decapitated.; the grounds neglected, and the
windows of the imposing structure blinded.
How sad and deserted an aspect! How changed
the place-once the abode of "elegant Euno-
mia," the goddess of his dreams! He, remem-
bered his surreptitious visit and eavesdropping
the night of Edna's party. Where were all that
youth and beauty now?. The sweeping wind

C
!
k
8
f
iY
f
1
1


MARK GILDERSLEEVE.      325

answered with a dismal sigh. was there any 4
omen in this?
His reverie was cut short by the patter of
horses' hoofs behind him. It was the four-in-
hand of Mr. Nehemiah Gogglemush, a new-comer
in Belton, who saluted. him with a stare. This
man, who seemed ambitious to succeed to the
position of the late magnifico, was the inventor
of the world-famous "Terpsichorean Ointment,"
a corn-salve of marvellous virtue, that had brought
him a fortune correspondingly marvellous. He
had purchased a site on the cliff and reared a
gorgeous pile, all turrets, gilt Tudor-flowers and
weathercocks, which completely overshadowed
Mr. Mumbie's dwelling. Goggiemush seemed to
have no end of money and actually dared to set
up a drag, while his wife and daughters made
shameful exhibitions of themselves in diamonds,
point-lace,. India shawls; and deported them-
selves generally in a way that no person in
their station, and connected with corn-salve,
who had any regard for public opinion, would
venture to. Moreover, at church the Misses
Adela and Angela Gogglemush, in all their
odious finery, monopolized the attention of the

i
i
,"
'
,
.
;

congregation, and even the rector was reported to
be not indifferent to the attractions of the younger
of the two.
Of course it was impossible for the Mumbies
to live in constant proximity to such vulgarity,
and especially as there was absolutely no one
now in the place, except Judge Hull's family,
with whom they could associate, as Mrs. Mumbie
said, they had been forced to remove to New
York.
On his return Mark stopped for a moment at
St. Jude's. The sexton wanted to show him the
beautiful memorial windows, presented by Miss
Heath in honor of her father and mother. Mark
peopled the edifice with its old frequenters-with
handsome, refined Mr. Heath, dignifiedly conde-
scending, as if he were willing to meet his Maker
half way; with Edna's sweet, uplifted, attentive
profile; devout, slow-winking Mrs. Applegate,
and in the opposite pew, pompous Mr. Mumbie,
who occupied one corner with, such upright, un-
varying exactitude, that he served as a sundial
to Mark to measure the service, when the purple
ray from a lancet-window moved over the capa-
cious white waistcoat of the portly paper-maker.

324

MARK GILIM RSL + + VL

I
j


826        MARK GILDERSLEEVE.

MARK GILDERSLEEVE.       327

The new-comers had taken possession of that pew
now, for Mark saw in it several richly bound oc-
tavoprayer-books, stamped with the name Goggle-
mush, hideous in Gothic text.
Mark now proceeded to call on Dr. Wattletop.
The information in regard to the latter's pecuni-
ary condition, imparted by Mrs. Gildersleeve,
troubled her brother-in-law, and he was anxious
to. offer any assistance that the physician was
likely to accept; but when the colonel, after
much hesitation and circumlocution, hinted at
his desire, Dr. Wattletop cut him short with a
"Thanks-thanks, my dear boy, I'm quite easy.
You must know that Miss Heath has requested
me to accept, at a handsome salary, the position of
physician-in-chief to the hospital she is erecting
for the county. Noble girl, that-though I don't
know after all that she's doing any more than her
duty," he hastened to add, fearing that he might
have been betrayed into admiration or approval
of generosity. "The world, though, is so consti-
tuted, so warped from all ideas of justice, that
the mere performance of a single act of duty is
greeted with applause. Sad commentary, that.

Pokeinore is associated with me in the manage-
ment. There was an effort made to foist this
humbug Keene upon us. But Pokemore and I
at once declared that we would not listen to it,
and should consider it an insult and resign at
once if this ignoramus and quack were attached
in any way to the institution. We carried our
point, of course."
Mark reflected on this instance of inconsistency
in the doctor.  Tolerant and unprejudiced he
was towards every system and opinion save one-
the one that attacked his professional judgment,
and therefore self-love.
The doctor had grown garrulous with age, and
gave Mark a long and circumstantial account of
the illness and last hours of Dagon; and then
branched off into the exposition of some of his
theories respecting future existence. All this was
listened to with respectful impatience by the col-
onel, who was eager to return home and prepare
himself to take the afternoon train to New York.
He was disappointed in this intention, for he
found himself obliged to'attend a little tea-party
that- evening, given by Mrs. Sniffen in honor of
his return.

&amp;.
_ 4,
r.
t,
'ft
r v  ,
]x
fy  1
v  v


328

M~ARK G1LD RS EVYJ0

XIX,
THE next day Mark arrived in New York. lie
alighted at the " Albemarle" and proceeded at
once to make himself as presentable as his worn
uniform would permit, and after a deal of brush-
ing came out almost as smart-looking as a West
Point cadet. As the time for the longed-for
meeting neared, an unaccountable timidity seized
him, and it required more screwing up of his
courage to ring the door-bell of Mr. Mumble's
house, than it would to have made him charge a
battery. The new residence of the Mumbies was
one of those extravagant structures that line the
Fifth Avenue, and costly enough to be the domicil
of a duke. Mark asked to see Miss Heath. The
domestic who answered his ring replied that he
did not know whether she were in or not, but
would go and see-would the gentleman give his
name?$
Mark sent up a card and the servant returned
with a "not at home."

' f}6yl,
C'
r
y 6-
- - L
_ r
f
..7F
rSi-Ji
7

MARK GILDERsLEEVE.

329

when would she be in?
Servant couldn't tell--uncertain-didn't know.
The colonel went away, found some brother
officers at the hotel, and dined with them. Nfter-
wards he returned to Mr. Mumbie's, but met with
no better success ; Miss Heath was still "not at
home." Disappointed again, Mark returned to
his hotel and retired to his room to smoke in
gloomy meditation and solitude. He was debat-
ing upon the propriety of calling again that day,
when his privacy was invaded by one of the
officers he had dined with. Being an old comrade
of the colonel, he burst in unceremoniously,
"Where the devil have you been, Gildersleeve ?
I've been looking all over for you the past two
hours. Want to see you badly.    What's the
matter, old boy ; you look awfully down in the
mouth. Not sick, I hope? Here, rouse up; I've
got an invite for you to a grand shine to-night.
It's a big blow-out, and we'll have some fun."
Mark drew from its envelope an engraved
card imparting the information that the pleasure
-of his company was requested by Mrs. Van Spuy-
tenduyvel at No.    Madison Square, on that
evening.

/


MARK GILDERSLEEVE,        331

"What's this, major ?" inquired Mark; "Who
is Mrs. Van Spuytenduyvel ?"
"Don't know the Van Spuytenduyvels! Why,
benighted boy, the Van Spuytenduyvels are one
of the most illustrious and stupid families in the
State, and-of the best blood of the Knickerbock-
ers.  The wretches wallow in wealth.  Where
stands yon costly fane was once the ancestral
cabbage plantation of the Van Spuytenduyvels.
However, that's neither here nor there. The
lady is an old friend of mine, and that's enough.
Met her a while ago-mentioned you-told her
you were a good-looking boy, battle-scarred, and
all that sort o' thing ; and she said, bring him
along, by all means, and made tne promise be-
sides. So don't look so bored; go you must."
"Go, nonsense!  Why should I go?" said
Mark, in no mood for trifling. "I don't know
this lady."
"I told you that I had recorded a solemn vow
to bring you, and you've got to go, willy-illy,"
said the major, imperturbably.
"But I've no dress suit," expostulated Mark.
" Dress suit, hear the innocent! Not any,

thank you. Why, you stupid, you'd spoil all in a
swallow-tail coat. What the deuce do you sup-
pose Mrs. V. S. wants of you in black with a
white choker? Haven't you sense enough to see
that all she cares is to have the proper comple-
ment of gilt buttons and straps in her rooms ?
As for you, my bold soldier boy, you're no ac-
count whatever, and she don't just care two pins
for your valorous and gallant self ; so be sensible
-be sensible. Brush up your spread-eagles and
prepare; but first get sheared, for you look like
a bushwacker with those elf-locks."
The advice was in order, for Mark, in singular
contrast with his former scrupulousness in that
respect; had become rather neglectful of his per-
sonal appearance, and his long black hair floating
carelessly down his neck befitted the chief of a
band of jay-hawkers better than a spruce Federal
officer. "Bestir yourself, Gil; you haven't much
time," added the major, as a parting injunction.
"I'll call for you at ten."
Ten o'clock came, and with it the major, who
found Mark still in the same attitude, unprepared,
and ruefully refilling his pipe.
"Now, Gildersleeve, I'll not stand this," ex-

330        MARK GII.DERSLEFVE.


MARK GTLDERsLEEVE.'      333

claimed the lively major.   "Go you    must.
When I say a thing I mean it;" and in spite of
his-remonstrances the reluctant colonel was borne
off to the ball."
Their carriage left them at the carpeted porch
of a sumptuous residence fronting Madison
Square, and a domestic directed them to an
upper room. After a little preliminary adjust-
ment of their toilets, they descended to the par-
lors, to pay their respects to their host and hostess.
The major presented .his friend the colonel
to Mrs. Van Spuytenduyvel, a tall dame with
massive shoulders and majestic nose, who re-
turned the colonel's bow with becoming haughti-
ness; and to Mr. Van Spuytenduyvel, a small
man, ambushed in the voluminous skirts of his
ample consort ; and then the colonel and his
friend were permitted to pass on and mingle in
the festal throng.  The major soon found an
attractive acquaintance among the ladies, and
slipped away, leaving Mark to shift for himself.
It was the first time the colonel had ever at-
tended a fashionable party, and the brilliancy of
the scene and display of jewels and rich dresses
rather dazzled him. A dull pastime, though, for

lhe saw none but strange faces. He looked about
him in the vague hope that perchance he might
meet the one whose image occupied his thoughts;
but apparently she was not present. As he stood
staring with an inquisitive and rather bewildered
expression, he attracted no little attention. - His
three years of campaigning certainly furnished
an example of how thoroughly not only the
mind, but its dial the countenance becomes sub-
dued to what the former works in. He was now
the beau ideal of a dashing trooper: swarthy and
sinewy as an Apache brave, with a decided chin
and glittering eyes. The scar on his brow, too,
neither softened his sternness nor enhanced his
good looks, and he found himself the object of
many stares and audible re iarks from ladies to
their -escorts as to who he was, and whether a
"regular " or "volunteer," until, embarrassed at
the notice he attracted, he threaded his way to a
corner secure from observation.
The rooms were excessively crowded, and the
atmosphere was heated with the numerous ligts,
and heayy with the odors of flowers and perfumes.
Regardless of all this, some determined dancers
were dashing along wildly, and whirling couples

332

MARK GILDERSLEEVE*


MARK GILDERSLEEVE,         835

834         MARK GILDERSLEEVE.

carromed like billiard-balls. Mark, inclined to
muse, indulged in mental criticism of the com-
pany. What struck him most was not the
weary, solemn mien of the elder guests, nor the
absence of frank joyousness in the young men,
but the- supercilious nonchalance and worldly-
wise air of the young ladies. Here and there
was a modest flower, but many wore expressions
of bold self-possession, that seemed to his un-
tutored eyes to border on effrontery. Perhaps a
harsh judgment on the part of our captious col-
onel, but it must be remembered that he was still
but a child of nature, living in the ideal. His
poetic temperament led him to indulge in such
exalted fancies of the excellences of the gentler
sex, that when taken from his dreams and placed
face to face with the sophisticated belles of two
seasons, he was naturally discountenanced. To
one living outside the pale of fashionable society,
its artificiality is painfully apparent. Presently
the colonel's soldierly eye was attracted by the
erect figure of a young lady, whose back was
towards him. Her shoulders and neck were
moulded with such perfect grace, that he was de-
sirous to see her face, and changing his position

to do so, he beheld a radiant beauty, that recalled
a Louis Quatorze marchioness. Powdered hair
and a patch enhanced the fairness of her com-
plexion, while bistred lashes gave an unnatural
brilliancy to her eyes. Her slender throat was
encircled by a diamond necklace, whose pendent
cross flashed from a breast of snow, that brought
the lines on Pope's Belinda to mind. She was
toying with a fan, and chatting with a group of
gentlemen who were evidently admiring her, and
her beautiful simpering countenance betrayed
gratified vanity. Mark scrutinized her closely.
Recollections of familiar features arose; and the
truth flashed to him that this young person was
Edna.
But what a change ! Not now the sweet, modest
rose of Belton, but an egregiously. vain and af-
fected coquette. So thought Mark, in whose un-
sophisticated eyes the transformation was com-
plete and manifest. He 'watched her a few
moments longer. One of her danglers was made
supremely happy by being permitted to button
her glove, while another enjoyed the bliss of
holding her bouquet. Then a third, a tight-built
little fellow, with closely-cropped hair accurately


f
r r
F
[
E

parted in the centre of his round head, a mus-
tache of magnitude, and a crush hat in his hand,
gallantly clasping her, led her off in the mazes
of a waltz. It certainly was a graceful sight; but
Mark saw, or fancied he saw, but another phase
of affectation in Edna's posed features and down-
cast eyes, as she glided around in evident con-
sciousness of the admiration she excited. With
a pang of disappointment, Mark shrank away,
fearing to be noticed by Edna. He had an un-
defined dread of being noticed by her there and
then, and very soon after, had bidden adieu to
Mrs. Van Spuytenduyvel, and left the house.
What bitter emotions filled the heart, and what
cynical thoughts the mind, of our impetuous hero
that night, it would be difficult to describe. He
imagined he had discovered the cause of Edna's
neglect of him. She was utterly changed. Other
thoughts occupied her mind, and other affections
her heart, if she had either, which he was begin-
ning in his bitterness to doubt. Should he make
another attempt to see her ? No, he would not.
She was unworthy of further attention. He

MARK GILDERsLEEVE.

f _51=
'
'i~
{
i {
f
^ r h
z ,'
'

should return to his duties at once, and start for
the front the very next morning. Such was his
decision before lie fell into a feverish, disturbed
slumber towards dawn. But, as usual, the b ht
sunlight of morning proved a sedative, and Mark
became . disposed to be lenient. " Perhaps,"
thought he, " I have been unjust to her. She has
been left an orphan to the care of fashionable
people. Could she resist-could any young girl
resist the influences of the artificial existence that
such people lead ? Truth is, I must confess, that
I don't know anything about fashion or fashion-
able people or their ways and manners. I've no
doubt that I'm all wrong, and that her heart is all
right-that she is as good and kind and candid as
ever. But when I think of the dear little artless
darling who used to coast down the Academy
hill at Bolton with me, and laugh so ripplingly
when she fell in a snow-bank, and that Pompa-
dour-looking belle playing her eyes at the host of
smirking fools around her, I feel as if I could
-well, well, she's a warm-hearted girl for all
that, and has always been my friend, and I'm a
fool" (this was the invariable conclusion arrived
15

336

GE14DERSLERVED

337


338          MARK GILDERSLEMARK GILDERSLEE
at by the colonel in his self-examinations. "At
any rate," he continued, " I have no right to judge
her harshly. I shall call on her, and her welcome
will doubtless efface the disagreeable impression
I have received."
THE morrow found the colonel
on Miss Heath. Before doing s
friend the major's advice, and v
rial artist in order tg present a le
more prepossessing appearance.
found the young lady at home.
the return of the domestic who too
was about to usher him in, the
mingled joy and apprehension of
almost unbearable. He was shown
ous parlors, so filled with painting
that they looked like exhibition ro
found Edna in company with some
a perfectly self-possessed way she
to receive hin,'and she did it so c
troduced him with such an air of i
the other visitors present, that poor
was chilled. Her appearance, also,
displeased him. She looked, with
twisted into Medusman wildness a

889
calling again
o he took his
visited a tonso-
ss savage and
This time he
As he awaited
k his card and
suspense, the
meeting, was
into sumpta-
;s and statues
Oms, where he
friends. In
came forward
oolly, and in-
ndifference to
r Mark's heart
surprised and
her fair hair
nud decorated


MARK GILDERSLEEVE.

g41

with broad gold band and dangling sequins;
with her delicate ears weighted by Byzantine pen-
dants, and throat circled by a snake-like coil of
dead gold,-like an Assyrian princess, beautifully
barbaric. But her jaded eyes, and pale cheeks
bereft of bloom, told of late hours and departing
freshness.
Miss Mumbie was there, and attired much in
the same way. There were also two gentlemen
present.
"1 I believe you are already acquainted with
Captain Gildersleeve, Ada," said Edna to Miss
Mumbie, who bowed rather distantly in reply.
"Mr. Jobson-Captain Gildersleeve," she contin-
ued, introducing Mark to one of the gentlemen.
"Captain!" exclaimed Mr. Jobson; " why, Miss
Heath, this is Colonel Gildersleeve. Didn't I
meet him last November when I went down to
the front to see my brother? Colonel, of course,
delighted, to meet you. Don't you recollect
Captain Jobson's brother, and the row with your
orderly about the shaving brush ? "
"Oh,I beg pardon," said Edna, coloring slightly.
"I've been away so long that I really forgot Mr.
Gildersleeve's present rank."

340

}
If
3J,
ii

"Forgot!" returned Jobson, who was a dashing
stockbroker, and had all the bru9squerie of his class;
"why, I thought everybody knew how the colonel
got his promotion. Why, Miss Heath; he's one
of the best known and most serviceable officers in
the army. I heard thecommander-in-chief him-
self speak in the highest and most complimentary
terms of him; said he, 'That lame devil of a cav-
alry colonel on H- 's staff is worth all-"'
"My dear sir," interrupted Mark, blushing,
and anxious to turn the conversation, though with
a secret throb of pleased vanity in his inmost
heart, "I remember you now very well. You
came up to City Point the day after our skirmish
with Hoke's brigade, when poor Archer was shot
and your brother wounded."
"To be sure I did," said Jobson; "and some of
you fellows at headquarters-I don't say it was
you--gave me some of the vilest whiskey, that
nearly cut me in two. Why, Miss Heath-"
But Miss Heath was at that moment engaged
with the other gentleman, to whom Mark had not
been present d. This gentleman, evidently a
foreigner, wa seated between the two young
ladies, whom he was entertaining with some ap-

a
r

c
!i
V
yy{{Y
}}ffSY
1}FF}-
Yt
Y
r
F
F'
s
z
t
T
i
3 3
3      fi
3
t
3
i
L
I
Y       N
f      1r
'{Y
yt      t .
F11=
n
e

GMDERSLEEVE,


342          MARXT GLDERsLEEVE.

343

parently amusing conversation in a subdued
voice. Edna, who was reclining regally in an
arm-chair, turned her head languidly to listen
when appealed to by Jobson.
"Excuse me ; I believe I omitted to introduce
you, colonel, to Count Borgia-Colonel Gilder-
sleeve;" and the two men bowed stiffly. She
then condescendingly addressed a few words to
Mark: "Have you been to Belton lately? Dull,
stupid place, isn't it ? So little society, and what
there is is so very inferior. Have you heard about
those ridiculous people, those nouveau riches,
with that horrid name, who have built near Mr.
Mumble's? 'Isn't 'it shameful that such persons
are permitted. to intrude among respectable peo-
ple? And they do say Mr. Abbott visits them,
and is quite, attentive to one of the young ladies.
Did you ever hear the like.? -Dear me, I don't
see how any one can live there now. I do so
pity Constance Hull. Poor thing, she makes
such a martyr of herself, staying there all alone
with the Judge, and he is getting so. old, and
peevish, and cross. Her brother very seldom
goes to Belton, I believe, but Constance will stay
in the poky old place."

'ifJ
-4 1
14
-f
°i
SF
ryK. z  x
6
Z
1xxj1

"Perhaps she is one of those persons infortu-
nate enough to have attachments, and who cling
to old associations," said Mark, sarcastically.
Edna seemingly did not heed the thrust, but
replied carelessly:
"I don't know really, but it must be very stu-
pid for her."
She spoke with an affected drawl, and drooped
her hands from her wrists as a standing dog
does its paws. Then turning to the Count,
she inquired whether he had been to a cer-
tain reception that afternoon, and who were
there.
Mark directed his attention to this foreigner,
whom he already instinctively disliked. He was
a handsome Italian of thirty-five or so, with white
teeth gleaming between pulpy red lips partly
hidden by a jet mustache with waxed points. He
appeared well-bred, spoke English fluently and
with very little foreign accent, but minced his
words as he displayed his teeth, and smiled so in-
sinuatingly, that Mark's disfavor was intensified
at the sight.
The young ladies and the Count began discuss-
ing the important subject of a "German!" they

V

MAR~K GDER LFEV,

f
j


K GILDERSLEEVE.        345

344         MAI=r GaDEsL3V.

had attended the previous evening, subsequently
to the party at the Van Spuytenduyvels.
" I'm sure, Miss 1Mumbie, I am right," insisted
the Count. " It is exactly as I have.said. I did
not dance the bouquet figure with Miss Heath;
I recollect, with very great distinctness, indeed,
that I was leading with the young widow lady,
Mrs. Lovett, who has such very charming eyes,
and Miss Heath was with-'"
"To be sure, Ada, don't you recollect I was
dancing with that odious little Herbert Hopper?"
said Edna. "Whenever I go to the Pinkertons,
I'm sure to meet him invariably, and he never
leaves me, so that I have to endure the pleasure
of his company the whole of the evening."
"I wish I were in the place of that odious
little Hopper," remarked70361 son, gallantly.
"There are others no better," said Edna; "as
for Herbert Hopper, I must say that he is a per-.
fect little pest, and I do wish he wouldn't annoy,
me."
"Say the word,. Miss Heath," said Jobson,
" and I'll slay him."
"O Miss," deprecated the Count, with a win-.
ning air, "do not-do not, I pray you, be so se.

i
', a
s.

vere with the fire of your indignation on the poor
boy. It is not his fault. You do not know what
he has to contend with. How can he help it?
When we see a parterre of beautiful flowers, do we
not all stop and linger around the most beautiful
and loveliest of them?" and he added some
words in French that caused Edna to smile with
evident pleasure, and pout her lips coquet-
tighly.
Mark's feelings underwent a complete re-
vulsion. His bitter disappointment had given
place to anger incited by jealousy and the cav-
alier treatment he had received. Now disen-
chantment. succeeded, and' left him very sad.
Was it for this he had striven? Where were all
those fond illusions and longings, those bright
visions of future happiness? Gone in one brief
interview with the enchantress that had con-
j ured them. was this vain, artificial flirt-this
heartless girl who treated him with disdain and
indifference, the sweet idol he had worshipped
so fervently from boyhood? He could stay no
longer in her presence, and with a haughty bow
to the company rose to leave. Edna bent her
head with a dismissive nod, and continued her
15*


4

346

MARK GILD1 RSLEVE.

frivolous conversation with the Count. Jobson
sprang up also to leave. " Which way, Colonel?
Stopping at the Albemarle, ain't you? Down
the avenue, I suppose? I'll go with you. Stop
a minute till I look at my watch. By Jove!
later than I thought. Ladies, much as I regret
it, I must tear myself away. Don't grieve, and
I'll promise to return again and heal your lacer-
ated hearts.  'Too late I stayed, forgive the
crime, Unheeded flew the hours, How softly falls
the foot of time, That only treads on flowers!'
With which elegant extract this Child of Afflic-
tion begs to subscribe himself on the tablets of
your hearts, ladies, as your most obedient and
obliged good servant. Ajew-ajew! Parting is
such sweet sorrow that I shall say-ajew, till it
be morrow. Ha, ha, ha!"
The jocose Jobson then bowed himself out,
chaffed the servant in the hall who assisted him
on with his overcoat, lit a segar, offered one to
the impatient colonel (who was figuratively shak-
ing the dust from his shoes on the stoop), and
then hooking his arm in that of the disgusted
warrior, walked along with him, chatting with a
familiar confidence that rather surprised. his

MARK GILDERSLEEVL.

347

companion. Mark examined this new-found
friend with some curiosity. Jobson was a tall,
spare man, with a good-natured sharp face, keen
eyes, a predatory nose, and wispy whiskers. Be-
neath his drab surtout he wore a brown velvet
coat and waistcoat, and his slender legs were en-
cased in cords. A coral splinter-bar pin orna-
mnented his blue bird's-eye scarf, and his watch-
chain was composed of miniature snafile-bits enA-t
ing in a horse-shoe locket. Altogether he looked
the amateur turfman to perfection.
" Deuced fine girl, Miss Heath, ain't she?"
he began; "Got the stamps, too-richest heiress
in the market. Old man took his death through
immoderate use of cold water-fell in the drink
over in Jersey, where he owned a whole town;
and to think now that this sallow-faced bandit
seems to have the inside track. It's a burning
shame, I say, that such a smoky-head lazzaroni
should be tolerated, when good-looking chaps
like you and I, colonel, are around and unpro-
vided for, ain't it ? "
The stockbroker's flippant way of treating a
subject so near to the colonel's heart grated
harshly on his feelings, but curiosity overcame

4


348        MARK GILDERSLEEVE.

349

his repugnance, and he inquired, "Who is this
Italian-this Count ?"
"I'll tell you all I know about him in a few
words," continued Jobson. "Throw away that
segar first, and take a fresh one--they're Partagas.
You see I'm a broker-by the bye, here's my
card, and happy to see you down town at my
office any time you're that way, or at the club
in the evening, whichever is most convenient.
Well, as I was saying, I'm a broker, and last
year after I closed out the Rock Island pool, out
of which I cleared two hundred and forty-five
thousand dollars, in less than ninety days, I went
to Europe and fell in with the Mumbies, I'm a
second cousin of old man 'Mumnbie, you must
know, although he never discovered it until I
was worth half a million. Anyway Bob Mum-
bie and I went about together some, and had a
good time. Miss, Heath, who, I suppose you
know, is a ward of Mumbie's, was with the
family, and this feller, this Italian, was their
courier. After a while it came out that he was a
count, and then they all kow-towed to him as if
he were the Grand Mogul. When they got to
Italy he showed them his ancestral halls, and all

that sort o' thing, and sold Mumbie pictures and
marbles enough at five prices to stock a museum,
so that the commissions and profits he made on
them enabled him to set up for a gentleman, and
give up the courier business. But he still froze
to the Mumbies, and accoinpanied them over here.
First he made love to Ada, but when he found
out that Miss Heath was an heiress, and ever so
much richer, lie dropped Ada and turned his bat-
teries on the other. Bob Mumbie was also sweet
on Miss Heath, but when the Count appeared,
poor Bob's pipe was out at once. Mrs. Mumbie
is as much magnetized as any of them. She
thinks a wonderful sight of high birth, blood,
families, and all that sort o' thing, and wants to
secure the Count for Ada, though I don't think
there's much show for her now. So you see the
feller's in clover and, begad, I think he can take his
pick of the girls any day he wants to. Can't im-
agine what possesses our girls to take up with
foreign beggars, with handles to their names, when
there's lots of their good-looking sensible coun-
trymen to be had, with the rocks to back 'em."
here Jobson thi'ev back the lappels of his coat
and displayed his chest. "So it goes," he con-

MARK GILDERSLERVE,

i
{ik


350

MARK GILDERSLEEVE.

tinned with a sigh. " Some time ago French
marquises and barons were all the rage, and now
they're running on Italian counts and princes.
That Count Borgia hasn't got a red cent. He's
passing chips half the time 'round to Morrissey's.
Hang me, if I don't think lhe's a capper, and
that's the way he manages to live."
Jobson evidently spoke from warmth of feeling,
and the gist of his sentiments found an emphatic
indorsement in Mark's breast, who, however, was
not disposed to exchange views on the topic,
and remained silent. By this, time they had
reached the Union Club.
"1Come in and dine with me?" said Jobson.
The colonel excused himself.
" Well, say to-morrow. I'll call for you in my
dog-cart, and we'll take a spin down the Lane be-
fore dinner. What do you say ?"
The colonel thanked Jobson for his invitation,
but said he should leave for the front that even-
in1g.
"Sorry, colonel, if you must go. Good-by.
Take care of yourself."
Mark promised to do so, and returned to his
hotel.

MARK GILDERsLEEVE-         851
" Henceforth let every incident of my past life,
every thought and remembrance connected with
her, be dismissed from my mind. Let it be as
blank. I blot out every memory of Edna Heath
from this moment. No such being exists for me."
Such were the colonel's resolves, as he prepared
himself to leave. "I can very well understand
how men become Trappists. It would take but
little to induce me to join the order, provided
they permitted smoking. How vain, hollow, and
illusory are all our hopes and plans! Vanity of
vanities," etc., etc., and he continued in the usual
strain of jilted lovers, indulging in gloomy rhap-
sodies as he packed his portmanteau.
An hour later he was on his way to City Point.
Contemporaneously, the object of his animadver-
sions was in her room preparing for the evening's
campaign. The hair-dresser had just left, and
she reinained leaning pensively on her toilet-
table. Evidently she was dissatisfied with some-
thing, probably with herself. On reviewing the
events of the day, and her conduct and attitude
towards Mark, a vexing doubt would obtrude that
she had perhaps treated him rather shabbily, at
least ungenerously, if not unworthily. "After


352         M&amp;K GILDERsLEEVE.

all," she reflected, "it is his fault. He has no
one to blame but himself. Why did he not an-
swer my letters? why this unaccountable silence
on his part? Perhaps he might have explained
it, but then, why is he so intensely haughty, and
why does he attempt to overawe me? Am I a
child to be chidden and rendered submissive by
imposing airs? Still he seemed so joyful when
he entered the room-his eyes fairly sparkled.
But what could I do? I couldn't fly in his arms
or appear demonstrative in the presence of the
Count and the others. Still, I might have shown
some cordiality. I don't see what possessed me.
I did feel like greeting him, but something
checked me. 0 dear! I am so weak and foolish,
I presume nothing will do now but I must write
a note apologizing like a little goose, and telling
him how very sorry I am, and promising never
to do so again. No! I won't do that, but I'll
smooth it over with a few non-committal senten-
ces, and he will be just as well pleased." Sitting
down to her writing-desk, she began penning a
formal missive, containing a half dozen white
fibs, which, before it was completed, she impa-
tiently tore into bits, and began another which

MARK GILDERSLEEGVE.         353
met a similar fate, until at length her feelings
found relief and satisfactory expression in the
following:
DEAR ,MARK:
Do not leave in anger with me.
EDNA.
These few words were immediately despatched
to the colonel, who, Edna had overheard Jobson
say, was stopping at the " Albermarle," and strict
injunctions. given the messenger to ascertain pos-
itively if this were so.
The clerk in attendance at the hotel, unaware
that Mark had departed a short time before, re-
plied, when questioned as to whether the colonel
were staying there, in the affirmative; and tak-
ing Edna's note, flung it carelessly in an appro-
priate pigeon-hole. It lay there a day; and
the next tenant of the room occupied by Mark
received it, opened it without looking at the ad-
dress, and discovering his mistake and the appar-
ent unimportance of the epistle, unconcernedly
threw it into the fire.
Accidents seemingly trivial shape our des-
tinies; and this one separated two young hearts

t '
,:
i


f:

forever, and caused a material divergence in their
future lives.
Edna, after sending the note, remained at home
that evening. She had engaged to go to the
opera; but plead indisposition, and grievously
disappointed an admirer. She waited in expecta-
tion of a swift acknowledgment of her petitions
The mask had fallen. If Mark could have seen
her now, all his bitterness would have vanished.
Old thoughts and recollections had resumed their
sway, and her .countenance beamed with the
.latent tenderness of a frank, generous nature.
It was not the tristful expression of a love-lorn
maiden, for her girlish passion for Mark was in-
deed gone; but there remained a sincere affection
for her old friend and playmate. He came not,
neither made he any sign; and Edna retired
to her room that night disappointed, and perhaps
a little nettled. This feeling very soon passed
over; it lasted a day or so, and then with an,
appeased conscience, and serene conviction that
she had made ample amends for her frigid re-
ception of her old lover, she continued to mingle
in the whirl of fashionable diversions.
Her wealth and beauty had installed her at

- once as the reigning belle of the season. Suitors
she had without number. Noticeable among
them, besides the Italian count, were: the still
faithful Spooner, the former dog-fancier, now the
Rev. F. Standish Spooner, in charge of a congre-
gation at Roxbury, that he sadly neglected to
wait upon Miss Heath, without, however, much
hope of success, as his ineligibility as a partner
in the dance put him at a woful disadvantage;
the dashing stockbroker, Jobson, whom the belle
rather disdained, in spite of his horses and yacht,
as unrefined and inclined to low tastes; Herbert
hopper, a little fop, with immeasurably more
money than brains; a pretty fellow, though, that
scores of girls would gladly have taken up with ;
and last though not least, Percy Brocatelle, a fa-
mous leader of the German. Percy's means of
livelihood were involved in mystery, and his an-
tecedents humble: He had been a clerk at Stew-
art's, where his gentlemanly address and good
looks had won whim many friends and acquaint-
ances from among the fashionable patronesses of
that establishment. Under the auspices of the
sagacious Sextoin Brown, he had forsaken the
glove-counter, and made his debt as a society-

MARK GILDERSLEEVE-

354

7  GILDERSLEE .

355.


856          MA   G                         MARK GILDERSLEEVE.

man, gradually rising to eminence in that ar-
duous profession. Envious swells, to be sure,
maligned him; sons of successful pork-merchants
and stable-keepers blackballed him and refused
him admission to their clubs ; but Brocatelle rose
triumphant over all these obstacles, and was
found everywhere-that was anywhere-for who
could so deftly tread the mazes of the German as
he? Whose head was so round, or hair parted
with such precision as his?  And who else com-
bined with all this, clothes so faultless, and a
mustache so imposing? His taste, furthermore,
in ladies' dress-in their laces, gloves, ribbons,
and coiffures, was unimpeachable and invaluable.
These qualities were not to be gainsaid ; and Ed-
na, for one, declared publicly, that she preferred
dancing with him to any one else, and dreaded
his criticism on her attire more than even that of
the great Schmauder. Yet in spite of all these
advantages, Percy could make no headway
against the Count-the irresistible Count, sur-
rounded with all the fascinating and terrible
glories of the Borgia family, whose star was in
the ascendant until a prince-a real PRINCE,
came along. For it happened in those days that

the son of a reigning monarch was making a tour
of the States. His mother, who was, naturally
enough, a queen, although a queen, bore as irre-
proachable a character as any matron in her do-
minions; and as such praiseworthy conduct on
the part of a sovereign deserved encouragement,
several estimable old citizens of the great me-
tropolis deemed it their duty to manifest their
approval of her good behavior, by giving a public
ball to her son, out of respect for his august
mother. This, to be sure, was but a left-handed
compliment to the son, and when a committee of
the reverend seignors waited on the prince to
,tender the proposed honor he did not evince any
lively sense of anticipated pleasure; and after
the deputation had bowed themselves off (each
one under the delightful delusion that lhe would
be asked in return to drop in at the palace, in a
friendly way, on his next visit to Europe) he
turned to his mentor and discontentedly said,
'iDainnit, Grey, must I go to that ball, and be
bored by those confounded snobs ?"
"No help for it that I can see," replied my
lord.
" Well, there will be lots of pretty girls there,

t-

A AI $ GILDERSLEEV7,.      357

I I


858  MRX GLD]~RLEEY.                                         85
'k

MARK GILDERSLEEVE-

I dare say. These Yankee girls are doosid pretty.
If they'd only give me a chance to have my fling,
and pot insist on my leading out a lot of stupid
old dowagers, Iwouldn't mind it a bit," remarked
H. R.H.
Now princeling was to a certain extent justified
in his comments, for while the mass of the people
had an honest curiosity to see a prince, and
rushed to look at him as they would to a unicorn
or any other rare sight, there was a select circle
who worshipped him as the representative of
power and pageantry, and hoped by surrounding
him to shine resplendently in the reflected light
of royalty. H. R. H. was not an astute lad, btit
he was probably sharp enough to perceive that all
the toadying he was subjected to was due to his
rank and trappings and not to him as an individ-
ual. That refined snobbery called loyalty has its
redeeming side. One can understand the devo-
tion of a good and wise royalist to an imbecile or
wretched monarch, because the sentiment may be
disinterested, and would still exist were the mow.
arch an exiled mendicant, but the courtiership of
republicans is purely selfish and debasing. Most
of us, like Thackeray, would jurmp out of our

skins for joy at walking arm-in-arm between two
dukes, but it is painful to reflect that we should
hardly toss a shilling to either of them the next
day if stripped ofatheir titles and reduced to beg-
gary. So Mr. Mumble, who was abject in the
presence of the prince, and readyto prostrate his
poor old, brown wig in the dust before his royal
highness would, in all likelihood, have but grudg
ingly lent him a dollar had he come in the guise
of an impecunious plebeian. But H. R. H.
was a good-natured boy and had a part to per-
form. So he duly attended the ball, was very
complaisant, honored several ladies, old enough
to be his grandmammas, with his august hand in
the dance, and was then allowed to run at large
among the younger beauties -present.   Miss
Heath was among those who enjoyed the inestim-
able privilege of being selected as his partner.
Moreover, he graciously flirted with her in the in-
tervals of a galop. He told her that she was a
"stunning girl." His Royal Highness had ac-
tually said that! Edna thrilled with pleasure.
True he had paid the same compliment to the
'oysters of the country and its cocktails--true he
was plain and an awkward dancer, but then he

MARK GILDERBLEEVE®

858

359


3ARS GILDERSLEEE.~861

was a prince-a prince of the blood-royal, what-
ever that might be, and she, Edna Heath, in his
princely estimation, was a stunning girl!1 Was
there anything left to live for?  Her happiness
was complete, but alas and alack! the prince, as
princes often do, fluttered away like a fickle but-
terfly, and she was left forlorn to mourn his dis-
appearance.
Then by degrees the Count--the wily, per-
sistent Count-temporarily eclipsed, arose again
and reappeared in the zenith of her favor. At
times, when she had leisure to think amid the
excitement of her existence, she gave a passing
thought to Mark, but she felt absolved from any
duty towards him. She had done all that could
be required of her, and had gone farther to retain
his regard than she would to any other person
than so old a friend. It is true she had had a
girlish fancy for him, but it was at a time when
she was barely more than a child and inexperi-
enced. He could not possibly presume upon that
now, especially after the long period in which lie
had neglected her, and when her. letters had re-
mained uncared for. Consequently she felt en-
tirely justified in dismissing him thenceftorth from

her mind. It is not so certain but that the
Count might have shared the same fate, had it
not been for an occurrence that turned the scales
in his favor.
Mrs. Mumble, in her anxiety to secure the no-
bleman for a s&amp;1-in-law, had watched with much
dissatisfaction his marked preference for Edua.
This, and the heiress' continued indifference to
her son Bob's attentions, were more than her kind,
motherly soul could bear. After a long delay and
patient waiting, one day Bob ventured to propose.
Edna listenedwith an air of mingled surprise
and merriment that rather disconcerted him, and
declined the proffered honor. The rejected post-
ulant, chopfallen and sullen, repaired to his
mother and related his unsuccess. Mrs. Munibie
could contain herself no longer. The blood of
the Skinners was aroused, and her wrath knew no
bounds. Rushing in unceremoniously upon the
heiress, she overwhelmed her with vehement re-
proaches. Edna was at first bewildered, ani re-
coiled from the storm of anger so unaccountably
directed at her by the usually amiable matron, who
raged away incoherently, until at length unburth-
ening herself, the animus of all her fury was very
16

360        MARI{. GILDERSLEEVE.

h
.
a
I { g{g
B'
L
Y
SF
j}$
3
s
'

v,

II


MARK GILDERSLEEVE.        363

362'          MAxRKGILD1ERSIJEVJE,

disagreeably revealed. " So, Miss, you have seen
fit to insult us-to insult your guardian-to in-
sult the family to whom you owe so much, by re-
fusing my son, who was good enough to honor
you by an offer. You hussy! how dare you
slight my son-how dare you treat us in this way?
This is your gratitude, is it? After all the kind-
ness we have shown you-after all our attention
and devotion to you. You precious, artful piece!
to think of your eating day after day at our table,
sitting at our board with us, looking as if butter
wouldn't melt in your mouth, and all the while
plotting against the happiness of our children. I
don't see how you dare look at me! And the
Count-this foreign adventurer whom Ada de-
spiseg and whom you have encouraged with your
advances-this Count has turned your silly head,
and I'llno longer permit you to stay in this house-
hold."
-.Edna could listen no longer. With cheeks hot
with indignation, and hands to her ears, she re-
treated into an adjoining room. Mrs. Mumbie,
left alone, took to screaming, and throwiiig herself
on the floor, drummed away with her heels in im-
potent ire. Edna meanwhile put on her hat and

shawl, and swiftly leaving the house stood in the
street.  She drew her veil to hide her agitated
countenance, and debated whither she should go.
Within a few squares dwelt an intimate friend, a
young lady, to whom she repaired and conted
her trouble. This done, her pent-up grief could
no longer be contained, and she gave way to a
long cry. She was very sorrotvfal. The Mum-
bies had always been kind to her, and their home
was the only one she had known since her father's
death. This sudden severance, and Mrs. Mumbie's
cruel attack, made her feel very lonely and mis-
erable.
It was not until the morrow that the Mumbie's
discovered where their ward had taken refuge.
By that time Mrs. Mumbie had recovered Per
presence of mind, and felt that she had sadly
marred her plans by her hasty and intemperate
conduct. So Mr. Mumbie was immediately de-
spatched with a verbal apology, and instructions
to smooth matters and induce the heiress to return.
Mr. Mumbie felt himself rather an incompetent
ambassador for such a mission, still he undertook
it with zeal having a genuine affection for the
daughter of his old friend, and sincerely and


S34     MARK GILDERtSLEEVE.                        AKGLELFvj,35

deeply regretting his wife's behavior towards her.
With what seemed to him subtle policy, he put
on sundry tokens Edna had given him, suh as a
seal ring, a scarf-pin, and a watch-chain which
could not fail to open a spring of fond associa-
tions that would greatly facilitate his task. He
augured well from his reception, for Edna ap-
peared much pleased to see him, and held up her
face to be kissed. But when, after a short dis-
quisition on the weather, and some hemming and
hawing, he ventured to announce the object of
his mission, and, in alluding to Mrs. Mumbie's
"peculiar temper," said she "mustn't mind it "-
that nobody minded her "peculiar temper "
(which was rather a stretch of veracity), as "she
didn't mean anything by it," and that the best
thing Edna could do was to put on her "things "
and go right back with him-the .young lady
shook her head in a way that caused Mr. Mum-
bie to lose faith in his powers of persuasion. He
tried to appeal to her feelings. "Why, Edna, you
can't imagine how we miss you. You know we
are a family of strong local attachments. I my-
self have carried this knife-this "- 
He felt in his pockets, rummaged them, searched

:.
s
_,
:
,
f',
i  '
,.
fig.
,.
a- ,
.
:

Y

them over-the knife was gone! Consternation
was imminent-when he suddenly recollected
that he had, for the first time in his life, left this
cherished companion at home. This shock, how-
ever, disturbed his ratiocination, and he floun-
dered on rather feebly in his plea.
"As I was saying, Edna, we miss you awfully.
If you had only seen us at breakfast this morning,
you couldn't stay away a minute. We couldn't
any of us eat hardly anything. All I took was a
cup of tea and a roll. As for Bob, and you know
what a hearty feeder he is, poor Bob couldn't go
more than a couple of buckwheat cakes and a
chop, and Ada, she just about touched an egg,
and kept pointing with her fork at your vacant
chair, and saying there's where she used to sit.
Last night Will Hull called, and says he, 'Where's
Edna?' and Ada didn't know what to say. Now
this sort of thing won't do. You must forget
and forgive."
" My dear guardian," replied Edna, firmly
"while I shall always retain the utmost respect
and gratitude for the kindness you have invari-
ably shown me, and shall always be very much
pleased 'to see you, I never wish to see Mrs.

MARK GILD] RSLER         365


366         MARK GILDERsLEEVE.

Mumble again. I could not endure to be re-
minded of the cruel attack I was subjected to
from her."
"Come-come, Edna, you must not talk in
that strain. She didn't mean anything by it.
I've been through it myself. It's only her pecu-
liar way, you know."
Edna pressed her lips tightly together, and
shook her head, in a manner that signified a fi ed
resolution, and disheartened her guardian.
" Why, Edna, even l3lanche has noticed that
you have left the house, and goes whining about,
and as for, the canaries they are dumb and dull
as owls," added Mr. Mumble, at a loss for argu-
ments. But even this touching allusion to the
sorrows of the pet Italian greyhound and the sing-
ing-birds failed to soften the obdurate ward, and
he was obliged to retire baffled.
Then Ada Mumbie came and tried her powers,
but with no better success, and Edna's determi-
nation remained unshaken.
She stayed at her friend's house, pending the
arrival of Mrs. Applegate, who was spending the
winter in a distant western city, and with whom
she intended to reside in the future.

The moment was a propitios one for the
Count. He was aware that some disagreement
had arisen between the Mumbies and Miss Heath,
but of the nature of it he was in total ignorance.
His curiosity was excited. He could learn noth-
lng from the young larly. She of course was
silent on the subject, and he had too much tact to
appear inquisitive, but Bob-the guileless-Bob, in
a gush of confidence, inspired by a bottle of Bur-
gundy at the club, imparted the story of his
unrequited love, his declaration, and its sequel,
to the feeling bosom of a friend, who in turn
confided the tale to a dozen other confidential
friends. In this way it reached the ears of the
Count, who was not slow to perceive the great
advantage Miss Heath's present position gave
him in prosecuting his suit. Here was a young,
inexperienced person, severed from life-long
friends, and left almost alone in the world.
Naturally she was ready to attach herself to the
first sympathetic heart that presented itself in a
suitable and engaging way. Craftily the Count
played his cards. When Edna went to Philadel-
phia to, reside with her aunt, he followed her
there, and had the field to himself. He began by

ARK  ""S @

367

..
r


MARK GILDERsLEEVE.

MARK GILDERsLEEVE.

captivating Mrs, Applegate. She bore a strik-
ing resemblance to his cousin the Principessa
Baldonachi, he said; and had the port and mien
of those noble Venetian dames, that Titian loved
to paint. He brought her flowers and escorted
her to church. The good lady was flattered be-
yond measure at these unwonted attentions, and
pronounced him the most polite gentleman she
had ever known. At a favorable moment lie
took occasion to confide to her, his adoration of
her niece-that truly noble young person-for,
while he confessed, with a certain reluctance
that he belonged to one of the most illustrious
houses of Europe, yet he deemed the only true
nobility to be the nobility of the soul, such as
Miss Heath possessed; and then, with a sigh, he
regretted that the young lady was wealthy. lIe
deeply deplored that. " If she were only a poor
girl-if she were entirely destitute-how happy
I should be. With what eager joy would I
hasten to lay my heart, my title, my patrimony,
everything at her feet, and beg of her to accept
them. But now, alas! I cannot. No-no--it
cannot be-it must not be. The world-the cen-
sorious world, would call me mercenary. No-

c;
Y
z
F
S
;-
,
.
.
'r,
,a
a
'

I must suffer in silence. Be still, my poor heart!
But you shall be my friend, will you not? 1"
His visible agitation and moistening eyes
touched Mrs. Applegate, who ventured a little
consolatory advice. The Count's sentiments and
conduct in this manner did him great honor, she
said, but she did not think he was called upon to
push his disinterestedness to such extremes. For
her part, she had always been of the opinion that
no considerations of money should be allowed to
interfere, where true affection existed, and the
happiness of the parties was at stake.  The
worthy dame already saw herself sweeping down
the grand, staircase of the Palazzo Baldonachi,
on the arm of her noble nephew-in-law.
The Count thanked her a thousand times, for
her kind words. She had lifted a load from his
heart, he said, and raising her hand respectfully
to his lips, the gallant Italian closed the inter-
view.
Having secured the aunt as an ally, the Count
redoubled his efforts to please the niece. He sur-
rounded her with delicate attentions. He was
pliant, polite, deferential, and at length Edna
yielded. What else could she do? How could
16*

368

369


370

MARK GILDERsLEEVE.

she, an inexperienced girl, who had never felt,
until now, the need of a protector, resist the per-
sistent courtship of a man, handsome, subtle,
versed in the vulnerable points of feminine nature,
who plied her with ardent protestations of love
and constan y. Her aunt approved of it, too, and
not lon   er the announcement was made pub-
lie, that a marriage had taken place between
Count Borgia and Miss Edna Heath, which,
naturally enough, created,no little excitement
among the numerous friends and admirers of the
bride in the neighboring city of New York. The
match was very frankly discussed at the clubs,
rather unfavorably than otherwise, and Jobson
freely offered the odds of two to one, in sums to
suit, that the Count would either poison or
strangle his wife within a year; and oddsof ten
to one that the extinguishment would take place
in less than six months, provided the husband
could get a will in his favor by that time-found
no takers.
Colonel Mark Gildersleeve read of the mar-
riage in a newspaper, just before the final ad-
vance of our army on Richmond. Perhaps his
rash bravery on that occasion, when he rallied a

MAKG IDRLE~a1

371

broken column against a battery as gallantly as
Caulincourt at Borodino, may have been stimn-
lated by the conduct of one who had robbed ex-
istence of its charms, and rendered all renown
barren.

19F


372         amE GILDERsLEEVE.

xx L.

SooN after their marriage, the Count and
Countess Borgia sailed for Europe. The latter,
before leaving, found use for some of her wealth
in liquidating her husband's debts. Not a few
of them were incurred at the gaming-table. The
Count was in favor of repudiating these, but as
the holders of his obligations made application
to his wife, she insisted upon paying them.
The fact that he proposed to cheat his gambling
associates shocked her far more than the knowl-
edge that he had indulged so deeply in the vice.
But she was destined to a series of shocks. Hav-
ing secured the coveted prize, the Count had no
longer any object in playing the hypocrite. His
true character revealed itself. He was faith-
less and tyrannous. He attempted no violence
towards her, as Jobson had predicted, but his ac-
rimonious temper and bursts of vicious anger, al-
ternating with fits of feigned tenderness, of spu-
rious fawning affection, and his utter dishonesty

:'

MARK GILDERSLEEVE,        373

soon dissipated the little love she had for him;
aversion succeeded, and ere the first year of their
union had closed, separation took place.
She lives now in Paris, consoling herself in
the care of an infant son for the lingering bitter-
ness resulting from disillusion, and the convic-
tion that she was the dupe of a designing knave;
while he spends his time between Ifombourg,
Monaco, and other gambling resorts, squander-
ing the handsome allowance he receives from his
wife on condition of never appearing within
fifty miles of where she is residing.
Mark Gildersleeve, at the close of the war, ap-
plied for and received a commission, as captain
in the regular service. The Government, when
granting it, were pleased to convey their appreci-
ation of the efficient and invaluable services lie
had rendered.
While in Washington, shortly after the receipt
of his commission, he met at Willard's, Miss Hull,
who had accompanied her grandfather, the Judge,
to the capital. Mark had never been intimate
with her, but ventured nevertheless to accost her
and renew the acquaintance. She received him

4


374         MARK GILDERsLEEVE.

pleasantly, and he spent several very agreeable
evenings in her society. She was not a comely
young woman, rather plain, in fact-small, pale,
and wearing shell-glasses, but she possessed a fund
of good sense and a cultivated mind that were
very engaging. Mark discovered that, and found
that his wounded heart was now healing, so fast,
indeed, that it rather amazed him. "Strange,"
thought he, "I never noticed how much there was
in Miss Hull. I always had an idea that she was
a commonplace, in fact, rather insignificant girl.
How blind boys are! Upon the whole, I think
she's the cleverest and most charming young lady
I ever saw; after all, how much more potent are
the fascinations of the mind-the graces of intel-
lect, than those of mere physical beauty."
The sequel can be foreseen. Mark's bankrupt
heart was now solvent. He fell in love with Con-
stance Hull, and proposed to her. She did not
reject him absolutely, but made her acceptance
conditional on not being required to leave her
grandfather. Here was a quandary. Mark was
contented with his profession. He could not bear
the thought of resuming his old calling, which he
would have to do, in case he returned to live in

Belton. One thing was clear: he should have to
throw up his commission and leave the army.
The alternative was a hard one. Resign his
claim to Miss Hull, he could and would not. In
this dilemma, and while seeking some way out of
it, an event occurred which settled the matter in
an unexpected way. Death, the great intermed-
dler, stepped in and removed the old Judge, and
after a proper period had elapsed, Constance Hull
consigned her fortunes to the care of Mark Gil-
dersleeve. The latter is now stationed at one of
the frontier forts, and he and his wife are as
happy as mutual affection and esteem can make
them.
Our ecclesiastical friend, the Reverend Spencer
Abbott, has also taken unto himself a wife and is
married to Miss Angela Gogglemush, second
daughter of the distinguished inventor of the
Terpsichorean Ointment. The wedding was the,
most brilliant affair of the kind that ever took
place in Belton, to quote the language of the
"Sentinel," and was "got up in a style of Ori-
ental magnificnce-the bishop officiated-six
bridesmaids--ushers-two thousand invitations-
presents innumerable-sixty-two silver tea-sets--

MARK GILDERMI$EYEe       375


376         MA2ARE GILDERSLEEVGE.

877

ten gross butter-knives--one hundred and forty-
three salt-cellars-sixty-two bronze card-receivers
-diamonds, rubies, pearls, beryls," etc., etc.
Angela is an excellent spouse, and her husband
is still in charge of St. Jude's. Not long since,
learning that Dr. Wattletop was seriously ill, he
went to see him. He found the old physician
on his death-bed, and remained with him tntil
the last moment. The rector hinted at repent-
ance and "making his peace with God," but
the moribund was apparently as firm in his
stoical opinions as ever. To the rector's kind
entreaties he shook his head, and replied feebly,
"Useless . . useless.   . .   . Nothing I say
now can cancel one wrong I have committed or'
any evil done. . . .  . The future cannot be
at the mercy of chance or opportunity. .
Justice, impartial and inexorable, of the Creator.
How weary . . weary . . weary . . Death
comes so slowly"
And the old philosopher felt his own pulse as
the current of life was ebbing fast, until like one
going to sleep he passed away.
The Mumbies still reside in New York. Ada

is not married yet,, and Mrs. Mumbie says she
rejoices at it when she considers the dangers to
which eligible girls are exposed by designing
fortune-hunters, and, as a case in point, never
fails to cite that of Edna Heath, that "poor un-
fortunate person," as Mrs. Mumble calls her,
when she expatiates to a friend on the fate of her
husband's ward, and relates how her motherly
affection was repaid by base ingratitude. "We
did all we could," she never omits to add, "to
warn her against the intrigues of that foreigner.
We expostulated with her, we besought and in-
plored her, but all in vain, and now see the re-
suilt. I am 'told, (lowering her voice to a whis-
per, and with a slight shiver of horror as she bends
to the ear of the confidant)-T am told that from
the very day they were, married he beat her, and
on one occasion tried to poison her; she recov-
ered from the effects of it, but her system is a
wreck-a complete wreck, and she now drags out
a miserable existence, and Mr. Mumbie has actu-
ally to pay her husband money to keep him away
from her."
The master of the Archimedes Works is now

t

r;

IK

t
f
of
,r
}(
.
}
y Y
Y

MARK GILDERSLEEV E,


MA   GILDSERLEEVE..

mayor of Belton. The town having attained the
dignity of incorporation some two years since,
George was chosen its- chief magistrate by his
grateful and admiring fellow-citizens. He is in
no way spoiled by the honor thrust upon him, but,
if possible, is more independent than ever ; in
fact, it would probably, to put it mildly, now re-
quire the combined efforts of a drove of hogs on
the Mer de Glace to exemplify his extreme inde-
pendence. He and his wife still occupy the small
house on Mill Street; and the latter's chief delight
is in the periodical visits she receives from her
brother-in-law and adopted son, Captain Mark,
and his wife, as he never fails to spend the fur-
-loughs accorded him in his old home and with his
- adopted.mother,
Our little story is ended. What will probably
strike the reader as the most improbable incident
in it, will be very likely the one where truth has
been the most faithfully followed. We allude to
the cause of Mr. Heath's death. The traveller
who speeds over one of the railways radiating from
the city of New York, may be attracted, when a

short distance out from the suburbs, by a fine
stone villa surrounded by beautiful grounds and
conservatories. It was evidently designed and
built by some one of taste and wealth. Some
years ago, to the astonishment of all, the owner
perished by the act of his own hand. What led
him to it was unknown, except to a few. It was
remorse created by the discovery that an appar-
ently trivial act of dishonesty -on his part, long
years gone, had caused the ruin of an innocent
boy suspected of the offence. Moral law vindi-
cated itself and became its own executioner.
Before parting with the reader, it is meet that
we should apologize for having in one instance
decked our hero in borrowed plumage. That is,
in attributing to him the feat of unspiking the
siege-gun. The honor of that exploit belonged
to John, Stray, a private in the First Regiment
N. Y. V. E., and occurred before Fort Wagner.
It was done precisely as narrated, and, as an act
of nerve and cool courage under circumstances
of extreme peril, has but few parallels in our late
civil war.
THE END.

378

MARK GILD

.37g

R
l
I    {{ s
V
i

{
,,r


  
             
         
       
   
